His last concert was in Sydney on July 24, 1943, after which neuritis in his left hand forced him to retire from the concert platform.
He was the author of the text of Arnold Schoenberg's first complete surviving work in hellen Träumen hab ich Dich oft geschaut for voice and piano, composed in the summer of 1893.
A later accounting attributed humanitarian organisations with facilitating the emigration of 12,000 refugees from Czechoslovakia to the United Kingdom in 1938 until the end of 1939.
Joel Brand was dispatched to Istanbul to persuade the Jewish Agency leadership to accept this plan, which came to nothing.
Writing career During the years 1963 to 1965, her husband became the cultural attaché from Israel to the Soviet Union.
1963: "The Life of Clementine Kraemer", New York 1963 & LBI Year Book 9 London 1964 (267–292) 1963: (Ed.) Intermarriage and Jewish Life 1964 (with Alvin Boskoff): Sociology and History: Theory and Research 1969: "The Three Regions of German-Jewish History", in Jubilee.
Resettlement in Alaska would allow the refugees to bypass normal immigration quotas, because Alaska was a territory and not a state.
In 1950, he spent a year in Chicago as a visiting professor at the Institute of Design, which had been founded by László Moholy-Nagy as the "New Bauhaus" together with artists and designers from the Bauhaus who had left Germany at a similar time to Schleger.
Alfred Reynolds (born Reinhold Alfréd; 13 December 1907, Budapest – 23 December 1993, London) was a writer on social and religious topics.
He returned to Israel in 1953 and served as secretary of the Beersheba Workers Council, and was head of Labor Relations in the Ministry of Labour.
Also in this period, Camnitzer produced a series of "object-boxes" in which ordinary items were placed inside wood-framed glass boxes with textually descriptive brass plaques.
However, the whereabouts of most of Agathe and Ernst Saulmann's collection, including art from their villa in Florence, is unknown.
'Our Neighborhood', also 'Fish, Football, and Girls'), a bourekas film with Shaike Ophir, Gabi Amrani, Yona Atari, Tsippi Shavit, and Gadi Yagil among others; Kol Mamzer Melekh (1968) (Hebrew: כל ממזר מלך, lit.
Civita did his college studies in the United States, beginning with nuclear physics at Rice University, Texas, but gave up the subject when he realized that it was not his calling.
(1931) His Majesty and Company (1935) References External links Free scores by Wilhelm Grosz at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP)
She also continued her vocal studies under new instructors, including Rhea Silberta, Sebastian Engelberg and Olga Ryss.
Early life Rivka Basman was born in Vilkmergė, Lithuania on 20 February 1925, to parents Yekhezkel and Tsipora (née Heyman).
In 1990, at the age of 79, he appeared in Series 2, Episode 7 of Poirot, "The Kidnapped Prime Minister," as Mr.
The government alleged the IRC failed to maintain adequate oversight over procurement in Turkey for humanitarian assistance to refugees in Syria.
He attempted to immigrate to Mandatory Palestine, but was captured by the British authorities and sent to one of the Cyprus internment camps in 1947, where he became a member of the High Committee.
In that time nearly eighteen thousand Righteous had been honored and had been able to plant a tree in the avenue dedicated to remembering them and their gestures at Yad Vashem.
Awards and recognition In 1958, Youth Aliyah was awarded the Israel Prize for its contribution to education, being the first year in which the Prize was awarded to an organization.
Notable stage acts HaTarnegolim (1960–1963) HaGashash HaHiver (1963–2000) Yeshayahu Chapter 2 (2005) HaGashash HaHiver shows "Simhat Zkenti" (Nov.
Zweig studied philosophy at the University of Vienna, and in 1904 earned a doctoral degree with a thesis on "The Philosophy of Hippolyte Taine".
On November 26, 1942, Hasvoll woke up the children of the orphanage early telling them to wear 2 pairs of their finest clothing, including underwear, socks, jackets, etc.
Booth Gardner appointed Pekelis to the Washington Court of Appeals, a position to which she was also later re-elected; in total, she served on that court for nine years.
5; a fraszka or bagatelle, epigram: see fraszka) "Ojcze nasz" ("Our Father"; Wiadomości: tygodnik (London), vol.
She was renamed Orphir in 1931, and then sold to William Marshall of Glasgow for conversion to a salvage ship under the same name.
Louis was turned away from the United States, a group of academics and clergy in Canada tried to persuade Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King to provide sanctuary to the passengers.
After the couple settled in New York City, in 1940, Rebecca Tcherikower worked as an archivist at the new YIVO headquarters (YIVO Institute for Jewish Research).
He then moved to Moscow and joined the research group of Nikolai Nikolaevich Luzin at Moscow State University.
Pending publication of the Freud/Minna correspondence for the period 1893–1910, the truth behind such speculations may not be known for sure.
Between 1960 and 1966, he continued studying physics at the Weizmann Institute, completing his master's degree, and working towards a doctorate.
His mother described him as a "rambunctious kid"; inspired by Buffalo Bill's Wild West shows, which she saw while living briefly in New York, she nicknamed him "Billie", which he changed to "Billy" upon moving to America.
In 1969, Solti became music director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, a post he held for 22 years.
After the Nazi invasion of Denmark this placed them in danger; it was illegal at the time to send gold out of Germany, and were it discovered that Laue and Franck had done so, they could have faced prosecution.
He was active in Austria between 1920 and 1936, during which time he worked on about 30 feature films.
Cavaco argues that the author's works on this subject can be read as a trilogy, in which this historical event is represented.
There she married her colleague Frederic Littman, and together they moved to New York in 1940, where they had their first solo exhibition.
Abramovitch emigrated from Soviet Russia in 1920, landing in Berlin, where he was a co-founder of the long-running Menshevik journal The Socialist Courier.
During the 1929 Palestine riots and the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine, he was an active member of the Haganah Jerusalem.
SS Quanza was a World War II-era Portuguese passenger-cargo ship, best known for carrying 317 people, many of them refugees, from Nazi-occupied Europe to North America in 1940.
In 1998 Di Giuseppe's heirs sued the Louvre for five artworks in a lawsuit known as Gentili di Giuseppe Heirs v.
Awards In 1979, she received the Margalit Award for Outstanding Actress for her performance in The Plough and the Stars and the Actress of the Year Award for the role in Fantasy on a Romantic Theme the following year.
Camnitzer works primarily in sculpture, printmaking, and installation, exploring topics such as repression, institutional critique, and social justice.
Steiner remained in England because "I'd do anything rather than face such contempt from my father." He was elected an Extraordinary Fellow of Churchill College in 1969.
In 1967, Land was selected for a newly established post in what later became the Department of Information Systems at LSE.
During the hyperinflation, after the departure of the Quakers who helped to ensure the food supply in Cologne after the First World War, she organized the food distribution in the Association for Child Feeding in the City Association to provide food to needy families.
Partnering with the Polish trade union movement Solidarity in 1987, the IRC began a health care program in Poland.
The children were then driven to Sweden by members of the resistance movement including Martin Solvang.
His wife's family were later able to bribe the Gestapo and have Fürnberg deported to Italy where he was reunited with his wife as 1939 turned into 1940.
Rabbi Yerucham of Dubrov, his namesake, was close to the Beis HaLevi, and earned the nickname, "Rav Yerucham Charif" (the Sharp One).
He was also Israel's first Minister of Postal Services, though he only held the post for less than two months.
The Philippine-Israel Friendship Park within the Quezon Memorial Circle in Quezon City has a monument which commemorates Israel–Philippines relations.
Awarded the International Arbiter title, he was a Head Referee in the 23rd Chess Olympiad, and in the 8th Women's Chess Olympiad, both at Buenos Aires 1978.
Academic career During World War II, Radzinowicz established the Department of Criminal Science in the Faculty of Law at the University of Cambridge.
She is best known for her autobiographical novel, Nirgendwo in Afrika (Nowhere in Africa) (1995), which was a bestseller in Germany.
Over the years, the organization has brought young people to Israel from North Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Soviet Union and Ethiopia.
{{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) External links "IEEE Medal Of Honor Recipients, 1973" (PDF).
Early career Fraenkel's first job was as an accounts clerk for the registrar of co-operative societies.
The Reich Citizenship Law of November 1941 which had stripped him of his nationality only made him more determined not to yield it - 'To give up my German passport would have been to give in to Hitler.
In October 1983, Hampton came to the Elliott's New York apartment saying he was the son of Sidney Poitier and a friend of her daughter Marit, and needed a place to stay.
Together with his son-in-law Rezső Kasztner (or Rudolf Kastner), he took part in the organization of the Kastner train mission.
Sperber's last appearance in the West End was in a 1984 production of The Clandestine Marriage at the Albany Theatre; he spent his last years travelling Britain, giving readings from the works of his brother, writer Manès Sperber.
Meanwhile, many Hungarian Jews continued to believe in their own safety, despite deepening antisemitism in the country.
Zvi Henryk Zimmerman (Hebrew: צבי הנריק צימרמן; born 2 January 1913, died 10 June 2006) was a Zionist activist, jurist, and Israeli politician.
After the war, Peierls returned to the University of Birmingham, where he worked until 1963, and then was the Wykeham Professor of Physics and a Fellow of New College at the University of Oxford until he retired in 1974.
2010s Following the Haiti earthquake in January 2010, the IRC deployed its Emergency Response Team to Haiti to deliver help to Port-au-Prince.
He joined the Faculty of the University of Manchester, where he did some of his best-known work, establishing the foundations of optical coherence theory.
In 1941, he succeeded, with the help of Turkish friends, to immigrate to Istanbul with his wife and daughters.
Hedwig Frida Ullmann, née Nathan, (born 2 November 1872 in Frankfurt am Main, Germany; died 1945, Melbourne, Australia) was a German Jewish art collector and refugee.
However, it became necessary for the family to leave again and, in the 1939, they arrived in Vancouver, British Columbia.
Djanogly, who is estimated to be worth £300 million, made his fortune from the merger of his Nottingham Manufacturing Company with other textile interests in 1986 to form Coats Viyella.
Also, the Nazi government urgently needed hard currency from abroad, and Leitz's single biggest market for optical goods was the United States.
He assisted Delmer in forging copies of Krafft's magazine Zenit, German, and other astrological magazines dropped over Germany, and 'foretelling' the destruction of U-boats.
Following the German invasion of France he emigrated to America, working in Hollywood where he was credited as Arnold Phillips.
During her childhood, she survived the Holocaust by hiding with her family in a crawlspace beneath the home of a Polish Catholic family for two and a half years.
The Service allowed Hart Dyke access to enable him to undertake the project, sending him on hostile environment courses to allow him to work in dangerous parts of the world, and admitting him into their Vauxhall Cross headquarters.
This was a means for him to stay in constant communication with the Italian partisans and allowed him to communicate secret instructions for the surrender of the Italian Navy in Malta.
In 1890 he began to study jurisprudence and philosophy under Friedrich Jodl, and Anton Marty, who introduced him to Franz Brentano's philosophy.
He was a prominent Jewish banker who escaped Nazi Germany and emigrated to the United States during World War II.
A Visual Autobiography, Hyphen Press, London 2010 Sophie Hochhäusl: Otto Neurath – City Planning: Proposing a Socio-Political Map for Modern Urbanism, Innsbruck University Press, 2011 ISBN 978-3-902-81107-3.
Concerned by the approaching threat of Nazi Germany, he escaped to England in 1938, a year before the outbreak of World War II.
Biography Early life and World War II Lau was born on 1 June 1937, in the Polish town of Piotrków Trybunalski.
In his retirement, he was made a distinguished visiting professor for life at the University of Chicago and held fellowships at All Souls College, Oxford and Peterhouse, Cambridge.
label: Arbiter; Release date 28 February 2006; Katalognr.: 147; enthält auf CD 2 Aufnahmen mit Andreas Weissgerber: track 17 : Violin Sonata In C, K.
In the 2011 Spanish TV film series, El ángel de Budapest (The angel of Budapest), also set during Wallenberg's time in Hungary in 1944, he is portrayed by actor László Agárdi.
On January 24, 1949, the British began sending these detainees to Israel, with the last of them departing for Israel on February 11, 1949.
In 1933 Mylonas sold her to a Bulgarian owner, Dimiter Kenkov, who renamed her Makedoniya, based her in the port of Varna and used her to carry cattle on the River Danube.
His father was the founder of the Budapest telephone company, and his paternal grandfather, also Joel Brand, had owned the post office in Munkács (now Mukacheve, Ukraine).
Writings YU Torah Online: Letter to Rabbi Yechiel Michel Charlap Notes References "The Excellent Saint and the Rosh Yeshivah" an appreciation of Rabbi Avrohom Aharon Shatzkes and Rabbi Yerucham Gorelick of blessed memory by Dr.
In partnership with communities and institutions, the IRC works to empower communities to lead efforts that challenge beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors that perpetuate or condone violence against women and girls.
CD “EUGEN D'ALBERT (1864–1932)” by Symposium Records, 4, Arden Close, Overstrand, North Norfolk NR27 0PH, U.K.
In March 1939, all of his assets in Germany were blocked and on August 4, 1941, the Reich Minister of the Interior revoked his German citizenship and his property was confiscated.
Wrecks Struma In July 2000, a Turkish diving team found a wreck on the sea floor in about the right place and announced that it had found Struma.
He was Austrian national champion in the 200m juniors in 1932, the 400m in 1936, the 4x100m relay in 1937, and the 4x400m relay in 1934 and 1937.
Following the rise of the Nazi Party to power in 1933 she fled into exile with her Jewish husband, director Max Nosseck.
Moshe's daughter, Esti Dunow (born in 1948) is a painter and art historian, expert on the work of the painter Chaïm Soutine, co-author of the Chaïm Soutine Catalogue Raisonne.
Emanuel Theodore Bronner (born Emanuel Heilbronner; February 1, 1908 – March 7, 1997) was the founder of Dr.
The copyright representative for the Foundation and Seligmann's estate is the Artists Rights Society.
ISBN 963-9116-37-8 Löb, Ladislaus, Dealing with Satan: Rezső Kasztner's Daring Rescue Mission, Jonathan Cape, 2008.
Lichtenthaler: Ein Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut für Köln : Emil Fischer, Konrad Adenauer und die Meirowsky-Stiftung, in: Angewandte Chemie, Volume 115, Issue 7, 17.
The Holocaust Northern Transylvania, including Cluj, was ceded by Romania to Hungary in the Second Vienna Award in September 1940.
Turner in which the illustrations were an integral part of a book, prominently placed together with the words to which they were related, rather than banishing them to the plates section elsewhere the book.
See also National Prize of Plastic Arts of Venezuela References External links Gego in the collection of The Museum of Modern Art Gego – An Artist Described by an Artist, the artist Nathalie David's narrative around creating Gego, a documentary on the painter Gertrud Louise Goldschmidt.
The only countries willing to accept a large number of Jews were the Dominican Republic, which offered to accept up to 100,000 refugees on generous terms, and later Costa Rica.
The United Party government led by Prime Minister Hertzog introduced the Bill in order to restrict and regulate immigration and exercise control over resident aliens.
Career Pekelis was appointed to the King County Superior Court by Dixy Lee Ray, and later re-elected to that position.
[...] He was one of the few in the West actually reading what was being written in the Soviet Union with the recognition that there were still great writers who had stayed behind.
Ottósson also became a leading musicologist; he defended his doctoral dissertation on the Icelandic rhymed office (Reimoffizium) of Saint Thorlak (known in Icelandic as Þorlákstíðir) at the University of Iceland in 1959.
After 1700 American intellectuals paid a large ransom to Adolf Eichmann, Szondi, his family, and other prominent intellectuals were released to Switzerland in December 1944, where Szondi continued to live after the war.
In the 1980s, Momigliano and fellow historian Carlo Ginzburg leveled heavy criticism against French philologist Georges Dumézil, whom they charged with being a fascist opposed to "Judeo-Christian" society.
Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis played musicians disguised as women to escape pursuit by a Chicago gang.
In The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp (1943) he played the role of the dashing, intense military officer Theo Kretschmar-Schuldorff, a sympathetic German refugee from the Nazi regime.
Chananyah was the great-grandson of Moshe Teitelbaum, a disciple of the Seer of Lublin, who was, in turn, one of the main promulgators of Hasidism in Hungary.
The owner was called Moritz Lewin and had his business premises in Berlin at Friedrichstrasse 208 and Grenadierstrasse 28, cf.
With much outside help, notably from Avraham Kalmanowitz and Japanese consul Chiune Sugihara, the Mir Yeshiva left Lithuania before the Nazi occupation and via Russia and Japan, resettled in Japanese-occupied Shanghai, where he studied with Chaim Shmuelevitz.
He moved with his mother to Mandatory Palestine in 1944, after his father had been abducted by the fascist movement of Francisco Franco and was never seen again.
Glassware production After returning to civilian life, Guéron settled in Compiègne, where Armistice of 11 November 1918 was signed, and founded his Cristalleries De Compiègne glassworks.
He was chairman of the International Advisory Council of the Harvard School of Public Health's AIDS Initiative, and was an honorary trustee and an honorary member of the corporation of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
Aliens Act 1 of 1937 was a South African law aimed at curtailing Jewish immigration to South Africa just as it was increasing due to increased anti-Semitic repression in Nazi Germany.
The IRC affiliate Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children became the Women's Refugee Commission in 2009.
Based on his ideas on law and duty, he developed a juristic hermeneutics in the field of jurisprudence, and criticized historism and positivism.
She headed the Jewish Women's League in Cologne (Jüdischen Frauenbund), the Sisterhood of the Rhineland and Moriahloge, and the Jewish People's Kitchen, which she helped to found in 1919.
His national and international fame has inspired many Hungarian playwrights, including Elemér Boross, László Fodor, Lajos Bíró, László Bús-Fekete, Ernő Vajda, Attila Orbók, and Imre Földes, among others.
Rabbi Meir, the eldest, was murdered in Treblinka, along with all of his offspring and their children, all perished.
Breslauer soon separated from De Marez Oijens, began working in Berlin, and raised her daughter alone.
Although many of his followers suggested Joel succeed his brother, the custom prevailed, and the boy was given his father's three posts.
Though he became professor of physics at Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois, he never published again.
In 1974, shortly after founding the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases in Nairobi, he died from liver cancer in Washington, D.C.
Meanwhile, in 1947 Fried married Maria Englehardt, who was actively committed to social work, and they were to establish an art school within the Hudson Guild, a charitable organisation in West 25 Street.
Upon his return to Zagreb, Licht managed to get his identity document back and soon escaped to Slovenia.
He was then committed to the Elgin Mental Health Center, a mental hospital in Elgin, Illinois, from which he escaped after shock treatments.
Topics covered included using hybrids with teratomas to explore determination and differentiation (e.g.
Among his students were, the medievalist Ernst Kantorowicz, the Jewish historian of religion Gershom Scholem and the orientalist Franz Babinger.
At the economic level, a policy of Aryanization was carried out - the transfer of property into the hands of people of German origin.
Many of Bronner's references came from Jewish and Christian sources, such as the Shema and the Beatitudes; others from writers such as Rudyard Kipling and Thomas Paine.
Biography Born in Chernivtsi in Romania (today in Ukraine), Badian became a member of the Romanian Zionist Movement.
Ezer was elected in 1931 to the 3rd Assembly of Representatives (Mandatory Palestine) ("Asefat Hanivcharim") representing the Revisionist Party of Ze'ev Jabotinsky, and later served as chief adviser on tourism for the first government of Israel.
The Reichsvereinigung was placed under the direct authority of the Reich Security Main Office (RSHA) and was tasked with organising and supporting emigration, as well as collecting levies from wealthier Jews to fund the departure of those without means.
His research was used to support Ernest Jones in his debate with Bronislaw Malinowski over the existence of the Oedipus complex in matrilineal societies.
In Munich, Solti achieved critical and popular success, but for political reasons, his position at the State Opera was never secure.
After the marriage was over, she pursued an academic career, becoming a professor of English at the University of Toronto.
His property Waldstraße 22/28 in Berlin-Reinickendorf was subject to a forced sale to Norddeutsche Dornier-Werke Wismar in 1938.
See also List of Israel Prize recipients Nehemiah Levanon (1915–2003), Nativ operative in the USSR Notes References Raviv, Dan; Melman, Yossi (1990).
He was then employed as a court assessor in Stuttgart, then as a lawyer at the Higher Regional Court.
The company's repertory in the 1960s combined the standard operatic works with less familiar pieces.
From 1925 to 1930 he was an editor of the local journal "Tomaszower Wokhenblat", published in Yiddish.
He was then involved in developing the overall plan for Milton Keynes, which won the government's competition to plan the new town.
She met the South African-born neurologist Victor Dubowitz on Easter 1960; they were engaged two weeks later and married within three months.
References External links Literature by and about Andreas Weißgerber in the German National Library catalogue
Darius taught at Mills College (in California) and Madeleine taught American students about French and French theatre.
Born of Jewish descent in French-controlled Tunisia, he moved to Paris where he found work in the film industry, introducing Charlie Chaplin to French audiences.
Although he failed to win a seat, he entered the Knesset on 17 January 1966 as a replacement for Moshe Carmel, who had given up his seat after being appointed Minister of Transport.
Artur Semyonovich Berger (German: Arthur Berger, Russian: Артур Семёнович Бергер; 27 May 1892 – 11 January 1981) was an Austrian-Soviet film architect and set designer.
Lilly Flohr (born Elisabeth Günsburger; 15 October 1893 – 7 July 1978) was an Austrian stage and film actress and singer who worked in the German film industry during the silent era.
The number of Jews rescued is not taken into account and a criterion for recognition is that the rescuer took great risks.
Simcha Friedman (Hebrew: שמחה פרידמן; 1911 – 5 January 1990) was an Israeli rabbi, educator and politician who served as a member of the Knesset for the National Religious Party in two spells between 1969 and 1977.
California State Government Van der Ryn was appointed California State Architect in the administration of Governor Jerry Brown in the late 1970s.
Growing up in Warsaw, Zames and his family escaped the city at the onset of World War II, and moved to Kobe (Japan), through Lithuania and Siberia, and finally to the Anglo-French International Settlement in Shanghai.
Else Gradenwitz, the boy's mother, was a banker's daughter: she looked out for the women working in the factory and provided a kindergarten for their children.
In February 1954 Josef Dauns sent another letter, this time directly to Viktor Hamburger, in which he spelled out in greater detail the circumstances of his meeting with Rudolf Hamburger.
He retained his father's court on Pinkus Street in Tel Aviv, and established an outreach center there for secular Jewish youth.
Until recently, the number of victims had been estimated at 768, but the current figure is the result of a recent study of six different passenger lists.
The two began their relationship in 1980, five years after the death of Jacqueline Onassis's second husband Aristotle Onassis.
Club career Amsel began his professional career at Békéscsaba 1912 Előre, and after standing out, he arrived at Ferencváros in 1922, where he played most of his career and was Hungarian champion three times, especially in 1931–32 when Ferencváros won all 22 matches of the competition.
Jewish organizations, both mainstream and dissident, ran operations that tried to bring Jews from Europe to Palestine in violation of the immigration rules applied by the British government.
However, it was as a playwright that he made his most significant contribution and how he is best known internationally.
Hartlaub, who after such achievements could be described as unsuitable for the Kunsthalle, which must represent after-art and put the aesthetics of a healthy person in harness." In 1936, Tannenbaum sold his art business to the Dresden art dealer Rudolf Probst.
The company introduced innovative and progressive practices to the British Columbia forest industry such as selective logging, reforestation, improvements in workplace safety and better wages and benefits.
References External links Literature by and about Emil Faktor in the German National Library catalogue Nachlass von Emil Faktor in der Bayerischen Staatsbibliothek
Military career Upon graduating high school in 1944, aged 16, Fuld joined the Palmach, an elite Jewish military force that was working with the British.
There, he contributed to the refinement of the Wassermann test for syphilis, increasing its diagnostic reliability by using a large, stratified human serum sample and applying improved controls.
Ignaz Friedman (born Salomon Izaak Freudmann; Polish: Ignacy Friedman; Yiddish: שְׁלֹמֹה יִצְחָק פֿרײדמאַן; February 13, 1882 – January 26, 1948) was a Polish pianist and composer.
At that time of his discovery perhaps half of all German children suffered from rickets to varying degrees.
Businessman In the journal Theresienstädter Studien und Dokumente, Federer was described as "one of the most important and exciting personalities of the Czechoslovak economy in the interwar period".
Because she was a former naval vessel the newly formed Israeli Navy examined her in 1948 for possible service, but she was not in good shape and was not accepted for service.
Born in the Weimar Republic, she came to Britain with her family in 1935 to escape persecution during the rise of the Nazis.
The appeal court stated that "had the case been heard in England itself, or in most of the territories of the British Empire, the conviction would rightly have been upheld." Later Israeli investigations into the murder disagreed with the court's assessment and concluded that Stavsky was innocent.
Biography Yochanan Bader was born as Jan Bader in Kraków in Austria-Hungary (today Poland), where he studied at a State Gymnasium.
Its difficult manufacturing, due to the many wires within the vacuum tube, meant this was never successful.
Racker left the Public Health Research Institute in 1966 to found the biochemistry department at Cornell University.
The allegations were made in a self-published newsletter, Letter to Friends in the Mizrachi, in August 1952.
Life According to the Kallir Research Institute, Grünwald and Egon Schiele served together in the military, and Grünwald helped obtain a transfer for Schiele in 1917.
Outside of Europe Dominican Republic In July 1938, the Dominican Republic was the only country at the Évian Conference that said it would admit a large number of refugees.
Aluf (Rear Admiral) Shmuel "Shmulik" Tankus (Hebrew: שמואל טנקוס‎; 14 November 1914 – 4 March 2012) was the fifth commander of the Israeli Navy, serving from 30 June 1954 until 1960.
In March 1939, Hitler occupied more of Czechoslovakia, causing a further 180,000 Jews to fall under Axis control, while in May 1939 the British issued the White Paper which barred Jews from entering Palestine or buying land there.
As of 2025, the IRC continues to respond to humanitarian crises in more than 40 countries worldwide, including in Ukraine, Gaza, and Sudan.
In 2013, Britain's first bilingual state school in English and German, the Judith Kerr Primary School in Herne Hill, south London, was named after her.
According to Terdiman, Jews generally viewed the CDE leadership as fully assimilated quasi-Gentiles.
The occasion marked the 70th anniversary of the intended last Kindertransport, which was due to set off on 3 September 1939 but did not because the war had begun.
Körner was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, which had advanced to such a stage that she was given only weeks to live.
He attended the Herzliya Hebrew High School in Tel Aviv, before going on to study law at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, later being certified as a lawyer.
It was Braun-Dusemond's encounters with the German Expressionist, Ludwig Meidner which first inspired him to become a painter.
He lost his seat in the July 1951 elections, but returned to the Knesset on 10 September as a replacement for Moshe Kol.
He relies on the assumption that boundary conditions supply degrees of freedom that, instead of being random, are determined by higher-level realities, whose properties are dependent on but distinct from the lower level from which they emerge.
In 1939, he married Dorothy Kahn, an American journalist who fell in love with the Land of Israel, and the two moved to the Blumenfeld house in Moshav Merhavia.
He then left that to work as an assistant broadcasting officer for Central African Broadcasting Services in Lusaka (1952–57) where he created a fictional mining compound to get development messages across using local actors.
Presidents Max Bodenheimer (1894–1910) Arthur Hantke (1910–1920) Felix Rosenblüth (1920–1923) Alfred Landsberg (1923–1924) Kurt Blumenfeld (1924–1933) Siegfried Moses (1933–1937) Hans Friedenthal, since 1936 per pro == References ==
Following the Nazi invasion of France in 1940, he immigrated to the United States where he continued to work on Hollywood productions including several films noir.
Nickolaus (also "Nikolaus") "Mickey" (also "Micki") Hirschl (March 20, 1906 – October 10, 1991) was an Austrian Olympic-medal-winning wrestler.
The IRC worked closely with local aid organizations to respond to various disasters, including in Pakistan after the 2005 earthquake; and in Indonesia after the South Asian tsunami; and in Myanmar after the 2008 cyclone.
Just a month before he died, Kay donated 350,000 dollars to the American University to build the Kay Spiritual Life Center, forming the first interfaith chapel on its campus.
Brought up Jewish with his brothers Herbert (1878–1951) and Ralph-Leopold (1884–1956), he converted to the Protestant faith in 1907 when he married Sophie Reichenheim (1888–1976).
To avoid this vision of a city not worth living in, the Viennese are urged to act according to the election slogan at the end of the film: "Seid gescheit!
Around 1,200 to 1,300 Jewish refugees from 1937 to 1941 were able to find their way to the Philippines.
Her research, which was gathered across three continents and came largely from KGB records, was eventually published in her 2012 book titled In Search of a Forgotten Architect.
After the end of the war he was employed in Dachau as an interpreter at trials against suspected Nazi war criminals.
Tannenbaum's efforts to obtain entry permits to the Netherlands for his brother Otto and his cousin Paula Straus, a well-known Stuttgart goldsmith, failed, and they were murdered in the Auschwitz concentration camp.
Instead, Gego wanted to create a style of her own because she was able to use so many aspects of her life in her art—for example, her German heritage.
He went on to set up a watchmaking business in the diamond exchange district on Canal Street and the Bowery in lower Manhattan where he worked for 40 years.
Prior to the passage of the 1968 Fair Housing Act and before his death in 1963, Kay used racially restrictive covenants to exclude African Americans and other racial minorities from neighborhoods he helped develop.
At the 1932 Maccabiah Games in Mandatory Palestine, he won a gold medal in Greco-Roman wrestling in the heavyweight category.
He served in the Israel Defense Forces during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, reaching the rank of captain.
While they were awaiting execution, the Irgun abducted British sergeants Clifford Martin and Mervyn Paice in Netanya and threatened to hang them if Haviv, Weiss, and Nakar were executed.
Reinhard Heydrich stated on 12 November 1938 that the total number had already increased up to 45,000.
For each pair, if J i j > 0 {\displaystyle J_{ij}>0} , the interaction is called ferromagnetic; J i j < 0 {\displaystyle J_{ij}<0} , the interaction is called antiferromagnetic; J i j = 0 {\displaystyle J_{ij}=0} , the spins are noninteracting.
"Das Wesen der Wassermannschen Reaktion." DMW-Deutsche Medizinische Wochenschrift 36.34 (1910): 1560-1561.
He was arrested and convicted by a federal jury in Baltimore in November 1976 for conspiring to shoot out the windows of the apartments of two Soviet Embassy officials in Hyattsville, Maryland.
The publishing house was named after the rivers of London and New York, Thames and Hudson, to signify its ambition to publish on both sides of the Atlantic.
Her first husband Felix Stransky was deported to the Theresienstadt concentration camp, but survived.
By summer 1940, the Jewish population of France was estimated at 350,000 of which less than one-half were French citizens.
At MIT, he was with Gabriele Veneziano, Emilio Del Giudice and Paolo Di Vecchia at the centre of an active school of theoretical physicists with close connections to Italy (with one of the Italian INFN and MIT financed "Bruno Rossi" exchange programs).
In an interview for Maariv's internet site nrg he jokingly noted that this performance to a very young crowd is a long term investment and that in 20 years they would be the people who would purchase tickets to his shows.
In a memo written after that production's transmission, Barry admonished Cartier for his over-ambitious production: The performance of Rebecca seems to me to have taken us further into the danger area instead of showing any improvement.
Initially he joined the Hapoel HaMizrachi party, a religious-zionist party, and in 1949 he was elected to the first Knesset as part of the United Religious Front, an alliance between Mizrachi, Hapoel HaMizrachi, Agudat Yisrael and Poalei Agudat Yisrael.
Both have been invited by Bronisław Huberman to play in the symphony orchestra of Palestine, later the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra.
When the hospital came under shell-fire the next day Esther and the other wounded were moved to a safer area.
On January 21, 1939, Wassermann escaped to Holland, where he worked for a short time as a banker at N.V.
Building Armstrong, Whitworth & Co of Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom built the ship as Frogner for Fearnley and Eger of Oslo, Norway, completing her in October 1921.
After the war ended, Lax remained with the Army at Los Alamos for another year, while taking courses at the University of New Mexico, then studied at Stanford University for a semester with Gábor Szegő and George Pólya.
David Hampton Inger Elliott made national headlines after she became a victim of the conman and robber David Hampton.
The play was initially a failure when presented in Budapest," but became his best-known play when produced on Broadway in 1920 and elsewhere outside Hungary.
In 1941, he joined the British Army to fight the Nazis, and together with his comrades in the Jewish Brigade came to the aid of Holocaust survivors in Europe.
She married John Lawrence (formerly known as Hans Liebermann), whom she had known since she was a young child in Vienna, in 1943.
From there, they sailed to America, often on one of the Portuguese liners Serpa Pinto (also known as the RMS Ebro), or Mouzinho, or Nyassa.
Pierre Loeb (24 September 1897 – 4 May 1964) was a French art dealer and gallery owner who focused primarily on Surrealism and 20th-century Modernism.
The agreement was controversial and was criticised by Revisionist Zionist leader Ze'ev Jabotinsky and by some non-Zionist Jews, as well as by members of both the Nazi Party and the German public.
A fictionalized version of her life involving the 1983 encounter she had with con artist David Hampton was chronicled in the film Six Degrees of Separation, in which she was portrayed by Stockard Channing, who was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance.
Rosenblum, of Haboker, a Tel Aviv newspaper that later became Yedioth Ahronoth, noted in late 1945, that Dr.
References ^ see Ephrussi 1935a External links The Official Site of Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize The KD Learners Writer
Biography Born in Warsaw in the Russian Empire (today in Poland), Shofman studied law at the University of Warsaw and was certified as a lawyer.
Jüdische Verlagsanstalt, Berlin 2000 Lessing und Ludwig Klages – Das Scheitern einer Freundschaft, Jüdische Verlagsanstalt, Berlin 2000 "Ich warf eine Flaschenpost in das unermessliche Dunkel".
Lederer about that refugee experience is included on the website of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
Zweig's next novel, Irgendwo in Deutschland [Somewhere in Germany] (1996), is a sequel describing the Redlich family's life in Germany from their return in 1947 until the death of the father from heart failure in 1958.
He channeled the emotions caused by his condition into the production of a series of drawings and sketches.
As a police officer, he was most notably involved as the investigating officer in the 1933 murder of Chaim Arlosoroff.
Between 1945 and 1948, he played a leading role in the clandestine immigration enterprise in Palestine, commanding four Aliyah Bet ships: Knesset Israel, the Exodus 1947, Atzma'ut and Kibbutz Galuyot.
In May 1932, he founded the Agitprop group "Echo von Links"; between 1932 and 1936 he worked as their copywriter.
The failure to use any technique of optimisation either in model form selection or parameter determination has however been widely criticised.
With the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the Social Democratic Party of Austria came to power in the newly-formed Austrian Republic.
Jewish immigration from Germany fell as a result of the Act to a few thousand with approval for entry normally being given only to wives and young children of Jews already resident in South Africa or to their elderly parents or grandparents.
Kornblit was named a voting member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for the Academy Awards for his work.
Italy" ordered the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan return the 16th century Baroque painting to the heirs Di Giuseppe.
He also taught typography from 1968 to 1986 at the University of Reading and from 1983 to 1994 letter-cutting at the City and Guilds of London Art School.
Because his family was Jewish, a teenage Mayne was sent to Britain in 1932 to protect him from the Nazis.
On June 12, 1921, together with 44 other members of the Siberian Zionist Organization, Alexander boarded the Lloyd Triestino Nippon cargo ship.
In 1981 he joined the new Telem party, and was elected to the Knesset on its list in the elections that year.
He later studied political science at the Tel Aviv adjunct of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and administration at Tel Aviv University.
In the Kingdom of the Cross (אין מלכות פֿון צלם): a long poem drawing on Grinberg’s experiences from the 1918 November Pogroms, intimately engaging with Christian Theology.
After briefly returning to Rome to defend his laurea thesis at the city's university, he obtained his diploma on 22 July 1939, and returned to Paris.
ambassador from 1933 to 1941, openly admired this side of Horthy's character and reported the following incident in his memoir: in March 1939, Arrow Cross supporters disrupted a performance at the Budapest opera house by chanting "Justice for Szálasi!" loud enough for the regent to hear.
In 1949, he was amongst the founders of moshav Komemiyut, and later helped found two youth villages: Sde Hemed (now a moshav) and Hazon Yehezkel (now named Aluma).
After the family moved to Stamford Hill, (Heathlands Rd.), North London, in 1936, Esther attended the North London Collegiate School for girls, eventually winning a scholarship to Goldsmiths College, University of London (temporarily based in Nottingham), to study English.
This meant the British merchant fleet would not be at Germany's disposal for use in evacuations, and planning for the Madagascar proposal stalled.
In February 1939, Wohlthat announced his readiness to accept the plan for the emigration of 150 thousand able-bodied Jews over 3–5 years.
After the German occupation of the Netherlands in 1940, Tannenbaum was threatened with constant persecution; only his "mixed marriage," as it was called by the National Socialists, offered some protection.
In 1927, Ezer published "Palestine from the Air", one of the first aerial photography ever taken in this region.
He was born in Antwerp, Belgium, in 1914 and emigrated to the United States in 1940, escaping Belgium after the Nazi invasion.
Shortly before Nielsen's death in 1931, Koppel performed a concert dedicated to his music, first playing the pieces for Nielsen himself.
The bank rose quickly, and gained customers such as Duke Luitpold in Bavaria, the families of Thomas Mann as well as Neuberger and Einstein (Alfred Einstein).
In 1939, he immigrated to Eretz Israel, then Mandate Palestine, as an immigrant on the ship Parita, which sailed from the port of Constanța on July 12, carrying 857 Beitar activists, and after 42 days it arrived at the coast of Tel Aviv.
Levin caught interest in the piano when he was four and a half years old, at his grandmother's home.
Response The plan failed to win support from leaders of the American Jewish community, with the exception of the Labor Zionists of America.
His vision in architecture was to provide women with the same opportunities as men, accepting equal numbers of men and women as applicants in the early 70s.
In 2018 a retrospective exhibition, Luis Camnitzer: Hospicio Para Utopias Fallidas, opened at Museo Reina Sofia.
In 1967, he achieved international recognition in his role as Count von Krolock in Roman Polanski's The Fearless Vampire Killers.
Sonnino, in an account of an interview in 1956, related how the Jews had suffered under the Fascists, indicating that she had returned to Milan from Switzerland after the end of World War II.
The spins can be thought of as living on a graph, where each node has exactly one spin, and each edge connects two spins with a nonzero value of J.
His funeral, which set out from the Sadigura beis medrash in Bnei Brak in the early afternoon, was attended by the Rebbes of Boyan, Bohush, Kapishnitz, Vasloi, Ger, Vizhnitz, Toldos Abraham Yitzchak, and Sanz, as well as Litvishe gedolim.
They were instead transported by the Nazis to Bergen-Belsen (where he temporarily chaired a "committee" of exempted Jews), and subsequently allowed to leave for Switzerland in late June 1944.
When the time came to leave Warsaw in late August, however, she was ill following an operation for appendicitis, and remained behind, expecting to follow within days; however, the outbreak of war brought calamity.
Two or three years later, Scheib met Greenberg at a speech Greenberg was giving entitled "The Land of Israel Is in Flames." Pedagogic and academic career, 1937–1939 Scheib's first job after graduation was high school teaching in Volkovisk.
Underground to Palestine at one point went out of print, possibly because of Stone's unpopular position favoring a binational Palestine.
He settled in New York City; and unable to return to communist controlled Hungary after the war, he spent the rest of his life in New York.
At his death in 1997, it produced more than a million bottles of soap and other products per year, but was still not mechanized.
According to Carta, for being deemed an "enemy of the government", the military asked Roberto Civita to fire him.
After brief periods in Italy and France (where he worked for the Czech government in exile), he moved to the United Kingdom in 1940.
The conference was essentially a demonstration of the desire to “do something for the Jews” without any possibility of changing the situation.
On 28 February 1948, the Bonim v'Lochamim formerly the Enzo Sereni, (982 passengers) was intercepted off Cape Carmel by HMS Venus .
After serving in World War I, he joined the family lumber company, becoming head of the company in 1920.
In later years Hochmann worked primarily as a violin teacher, training Erika Morini and Norbert Brainin, among others.
During Beyer's internment he befriended the historian and architect Nicholas Pevsner assisting him on the writing of his books and in turn was greatly influenced by Pevsner's ideas on modern art.
Weiss was known for his avid support of liberal causes, including civil rights, open government, union and workers rights, access to health care, removal of the embargo on Cuba, and the arts.
There, she had her first contacts with children's schools and children's problems, which would influence her later writing career.
This incident shocked and enraged the British authorities and public, and led to violent reprisals by British troops that killed five Jews in Tel Aviv and several days of antisemitic rioting in British cities.
She was appointed a local magistrate in 1966, and would later become the first woman – and the first immigrant – to chair the board in Bristol (from 1987 to 1990).
She stepped down before the investigation was finished and was replaced by James Comey, who was critical of Clinton's pardons and of then-Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder's pardon recommendation.
He was later arrested by Nazi authorities during the German wartime occupation and was sent to Auschwitz, where he was murdered.
In 1925, Margarete Tietz was one of ten women named as delegates to the first Federation Day of the Prussian Regional Association of Jewish Communities (PLV).
He became a British citizen in 1946, and it was while working at British Thomson-Houston in 1947 that he invented holography, based on an electron microscope, and thus electrons instead of visible light.
From 1903 to 1905, he managed the Neues Theater (present-day Theater am Schiffbauerdamm) and in 1906 acquired the Deutsches Theater in Berlin.
In the same year, Loeb met for the first time in person with Pablo Picasso, with whom he later became good friends and whose works he exhibited in 1929.
At times she employed as many as four carpenters, a decorator, and a painter at the same time to do the practical work.
The painting "Wilted Sunflowers" by Egon Schiele (painted in 1914) was restituted to the descendants of the collector sixty years after it was stolen by the Nazis in June 1942.
On 17 May 1947, the Hatikva (1,414 passengers) was intercepted, rammed and captured by the destroyers HMS Venus and HMS Brissenden.
For you should know this: there is no power in the world which can sever the tie between the Jewish people and their one and only land.
The artist established his studio in a former munitions factory that he received from Arazi, that was located behind the hotel.
Allegedly they were sons of a rabbi from Alba Iulia, stranded in Romania upon the end of World War I.
They stated that the plan, which was viewed by its proponents as risky but potentially rewarding for Japan, was named after the Japanese word for puffer-fish, a delicacy which can be fatally poisonous if incorrectly prepared.
Acting and film career In the early 1960s, he directed the theater troupe of the Frank Sinatra Center in Nazareth, staging Jean d'Arc, Nasser Aladdin and Majnun Night for El-Hadit Theater.
These schools may extend scholarships or other incentives to prospective students beyond what HBCUs can offer.
Despite efforts to convert to Christianity, she was deported to Auschwitz and murdered because of her Jewish origins.
This duel was prompted by rioting at the presentation of Bernstein's play Après moi, and particularly by insults from a group of men towards Bernstein's honor.
Works Operation Action: Rescue from the Holocaust (1983) The Four Front War: From the Holocaust to the Promised Land (1988) The Holocaust Conspiracy: An International Policy of Genocide (1989) == References ==
Grossmann's participation in Social-Democratic propaganda led him to cut off relations with his parents and schooling.
1948–68), In Search of Criminology (1961), The Need for Criminology (1965), and Ideology and Crime (1966).
Later in the month the government collapsed and a new government excluding Mizrachi ministers was established on 24 December, resulting in Nurock losing his place in the cabinet.
[2] (in Hungarian) References External links Alfred Reynolds - Reinhold Alfréd, Facebook (in Hungarian and French) Blogger: Nanochevik – Enregistrer un commentaire [Tristan Ranx, Nanochevik] (in French)
The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society has a ship, the MV Emanuel Bronner, donated by the soap company.
In the 1920s he was involved in organising the Vienna-based International Working Union of Socialist Parties, which united non-communist socialist parties that rejected the 'Social Patriot' leadership of the old Second International but refused to join the Communist Third International.
On his labels, he referred to the Jewish sage Hillel the Elder as "Rabbi Hillel" and to Jesus Christ as "Rabbi Jesus." The labels became famous for their idiosyncratic style, including hyphens to join long strings of words and the liberal use of exclamation marks.
Biography Born into a Jewish family Westheim studied art history at the Technische Universität Darmstadt and then, in 1906, at the Humboldt University of Berlin where he was taught by Heinrich Wölfflin and Wilhelm Worringer.
In 1992, Architect's Choice, Art in Architecture in Great Britain since 1945 was published by Thames and Hudson.
There he completed the first English translation of Kurt Guggenheim's Alles in Allem, which he described as “a vast panoramic novel set in Zürich from 1900 to 1950” that traces the transformation of “a rural community into a dynamic modern city”.
Early life Ilse Lieblich Losa was born on 20 March 1913 in the village of Buer, in Melle, in the district of Osnabrück in Germany.
He was released on the intervention of the Home Secretary and later served as a pilot in the Royal Air Force; he reached the rank of flight lieutenant.
After the war, Limon captained at least one vessel transporting Jews that wanted to emigrate from Europe to Mandatory Palestine from Sète, a harbor city close to Marseille, France; one reported crossing carried Shraga Weil and Eli Reismann, then members of Hashomer Hatzair.
After the Liberation of Norway the Levin family returned to one of the central train stations in Oslo in June 1945.
Leaving Gibraltar 11 December, Paducah reached Portsmouth, New Hampshire, 7 January 1919 to decommission 2 March 1919.
Since 1992, he has led a training program for teachers of higher educational institutions of the CIS on the history of Eastern European Jewry at the International Center for University Teaching of Jewish Civilization (Jerusalem).
During the 1930s, while completing her studies, she embraced Marxist ideas and joined the Communist Party of Romania.
He published The State in Capitalist Society in 1969, a study in Marxist political sociology, rejecting the idea that pluralism spread political power, and maintaining that power in Western democracies was concentrated in the hands of a dominant class.
References Links Эгон Шиле, виртуальная выставка REDISCOVERED MASTERPIECE {{Authority control}} [[Category:Art collectors]] [[Category:Austrian collectors]] [[Category:1964 deaths]] [[Category:1899 births]]
Her youthful convictions were strengthened by awareness of international events such as the rise of Hitler, the growth of European (and British) anti-semitism and later, during and immediately after the war, the emerging details of the Holocaust.
Kant’s Political Writings (1970; 2nd enlarged edition 1991), ISBN 0-521-39837-1 and ISBN 0-521-39185-7.
Norman secured, through influence, a very desirable, but minor position with the British Economic and Scientific mission in Washington, D.C.
Fourteen years younger than her husband, Sophie Sack was a talented concert pianist whose teachers had included Artur Schnabel.
His father, Nathan Kornblit, was a diamond cutter originally from Poland, while his mother, Sonia, was Russian.
The Czechoslovak soldiers may have disembarked from Frossoula in Beirut, rather than being transferred to Tiger Hill.
He was educated at Frensham Heights School, and studied acting at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School.
Jewish stores and department stores were boycotted, loans were cancelled by the banks and the owners were put under massive pressure to hand over the management to "Aryan hands".
As the Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia became imminent, Baťa sent its Jewish employees out of Czechoslovakia to Bata centres abroad, and the Meisel family moved to Casablanca and then Haiti before settling in Bata's Canadian company town of Batawa, Ontario in 1942.
After a sudden deterioration of his health in 1998, he spent his last months with his son, Rabbi Chaim Michoel (Michael) Biberfeld - Rabbi of South Tottenham Synagogue as well as rabbi of the Chortkov Hassidic synagogue in Stamford Hill, London - where he died on January 23, 1999.
Despite having immigrated from Poland in 1938, he was often considered the epitome of the "Sabra", a native born Israeli Jew.
institutions), found little acceptance in elite institutions in Depression-era America, which also had their own undercurrent of antisemitism.
3; originally published in an English translation by Samuel Sorgenstein in Polish Authors of Today and Yesterday: Bartkiewicz, Falkowski, Gojawiczynska, Morska, Muszal, Olechowski, Orzeszko, Prus, Rey, Reymont, Sienkiewicz, Szymanski, Zeromski, comp.
He had when young ambitions to become a musician, and while in Paris he played the violin in a cinema orchestra.
Waal sent the oldest boy at the orphanage, Siegmund Korn, with NOK 10,000 in his boots to the husband of the orphanage's housekeeper, Gudrun, to arrange the escape.
Career Pianist As a pianist, Koppel premiered in 1930 at a concert where he included Carl Nielsen's Opus 40, "Theme with Variations", which was enthusiastically acclaimed as "never having been played so beautifully as this evening".
Kastner attended law school, then worked as a journalist for Új Kelet as a sports reporter and political commentator.
Sigmund Abraham eventually became the owner of the Adolf Grünwald company, which was located at Kaiserstraße 27 after the addresses Kieselmarkt 3 and Lixstraße 12.
Most of them were Holocaust survivors, about 60% from the displaced person camps and others from the Balkans and other Eastern European countries.
Wilhelm Diegelmann and Willy Prager played the bourgeois fathers as well as the sea gods, Ernst Matray a bachelor and a faun, Leopoldine Konstantin the Circe.
He gave him the opportunity to show what he could do." Solti's first recordings were as a piano accompanist, playing at sessions in Zurich for violinist Georg Kulenkampff in 1947.
In 1991, the retrospective exhibition John Koerner: Past/Present was organized by the Art Gallery of Greater Victoria.
In late 1935 and early 1936, Hecht and Menzel toured the Far East, which included a visit to Japan to participate in the Japanese National Championships, where Menzel lost in the final, and they lost in the doubles final as well, both times to title defender Jiro Yamagishi.
During the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, he commanded a blockade of the Gaza Strip and the capture of Ein Gedi on the Dead Sea.
He gradually built up a chain of cinemas including the Grand Rex (1931), and established his own production company Les Établissements Jacques Haïk which was very active during the early 1930s.
Building In 1887 Archibald McMillan and Son of Dumbarton built three steel-hulled steamships for the Panhellenic Steamship Company.
When the Bund withdrew from the RSDRP in 1903, Abramovitch maintained contact with Menshevik leaders Martov and Fyodor Dan.
Awards and honors He was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters and the National Academy of Sciences, USA, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society.
According to Michman, the apogee of forced emigration was the so-called Polish Action at the end of October 1938, when 17,000 German Jews with Polish passports were arrested and forcibly deported across the Polish border.
This was followed by two years of diplomatic exchanges, starting with an instruction form Cardinal Secretary of State Luigi Maglione to Benedetto Aloisi Masella, the nuncio in Rio de Janeiro, to request the visas from President Getúlio Vargas.
While not destined to be a permanent arrangement, the Haavara Agreement served interests on both sides of the dispute and helped facilitate continued Jewish immigration to the region.
He was instead appointed general secretary of the Labour Party, but resigned in 1971 over the party's refusal to recognise the existence of the Palestinian people.
His son Rabbi Isser Gorelick is a Rebbi in the Yeshiva and is married to Lakee Gorelick the daughter of Rabbi Elya Svei.
Soon afterwards, husband and wife moved to Sheffield, where Lilly took up a temporary registrar post in paediatrics and discovered a strong interest in neonatology, the study of newborns.
During those eight years, he conducted 248 performances at the Metropolitan Opera, including a number of Metropolitan Opera radio broadcast performances.
He later served as a combat pilot in the Israeli Air Force, before becoming a test pilot, flight trainer, squadron commander and a deputy Air Force base commander.
In 1939 Friberti applied for migration into the United States by submitting an application for the Emergency Committee in Aid of Displaced Foreign Scholars.
Many of the children found it difficult being separated from their families, and they often realized the reasons for their journey and that they would not be returning to Europe.
His work led him into the philosophy of mathematics, on which he would publish a textbook in 1960; Philosophy of Mathematics, which took as its central theme the question of how applied mathematics can be metaphysically possible.
Rabbi Yechezkel Levenstein - Guardian of Torah and Mussar, Artscroll Mesorah Publications, ISBN 9781422605387 External links Matzav.com Article chareidi.org Article == References ==
Nor did Peierls fit Pers, as the latter worked at the Clinton Engineer Works, whereas Peierls did not.
That same year, she became a member of the Associação Feminina Portuguesa para a Paz, (Portuguese Women's Peace Association - AFPP), an apolitical and non-religious association of anti-fascist and anti-war women.
In1919 he became a member of the "Central Committee of German Jews for Aid and Reconstruction", an aid organization for Jewish emigrants from Russia.
Sozialistischen Wohnstadt") at Hoyerswerda, a large new town development a short distance to the east of Dresden.
Only three survivors remained aboard the boat: the Chief Officer, the Second Engineer, and one seaman.
title in Portuguese: A Travessia da Terra Vermelha – uma saga dos refugiados judeus no Brasil), is a 2007 novel by Brazilian author Lucius de Mello.
The project was commissioned by The Association of Jewish Refugees in 2003 and was founded by Dr Anthony Grenville and Dr Bea Lewkowicz.
He helped to organize and fund, through WRAIR, a major program for basic and applied research in malaria in the mid 1960s which led to at least two effective antimalarial therapies.
Fraenkel studied English and history at the University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, and became involved with the anti-apartheid movement.
Ottósson died of a heart attack in Lund, Sweden on 10 March 1974, while attending a Nordic hymnology conference.
Post US Navy service Decommissioning 7 September 1945, Paducah transferred to the Maritime Commission 19 December 1946, and was sold the same day to Maria Angelo, Miami, Florida.
"This bearing crossed the course of Mefkure and the two Turkish vessels almost exactly at the area where Mefkure was sunk during that night." The German historian Jürgen Rohwer claimed Shch-215 as the vessel which then attacked.
Mardall and they were responsible for a number of innovative architectural projects such as Gatwick Airport, the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford and the Manchester Magistrates Court.
Consider them your friends and help them any way you can." Various details of Gomolak's dissertation have been cited by other historians.
Service history After shakedown, Paducah joined the Caribbean Squadron early in 1906 to protect American lives and interests through patrols and port calls to Caribbean and Central American and South American cities.
His main value to Delmer was his contact with Karl Ernst Krafft, the German astrologer working in Berlin for Dr Goebbels.
United States Shortly after his return to the United States from Israel in 1949, Schulman was drafted to the Korean War.
Early life Born Pessah Panitsch in Kolno, Poland, to a Zionist, Haredi family, he was educated in a Jewish orthodox school and in yeshivas.
Ralph's Jewish mother, Margarete returned to Germany and during the Second World War was incarcerated in Auschwitz where she died in 1945.
At the Bocklemünd Jewish Cemetery in Cologne, a memorial plaque on the Tietz family grave commemorates the couple Margarete and Alfred L.
By 1911, he was in Munich and published his book, Prolegomena to an edition of the British Museum in London held chronicle of the Seljuk Empire and was an adjunct at LMU Munich.
Bill Rodgers said that most of the child-rearing fell to Silvia and that he was neglectful; she also worked as a dentist when he was first in parliament as they were not well-off.
It was de Decker who altered the official "visa" wording for a few Jews, omitting in the text the need for the Curaçao governor approving entry.
Milo Sperber (20 March 1911 – 22 December 1992) was a British actor, director and writer who was born in Poland.
In addition to the DRC, Tempelsman played a key role in the diamond industries of Angola, Botswana, Namibia, and Sierra Leone.
On November 18, 2018, he regained his German citizenship, and in 2021 voted in a German federal election for the first time.
McNutt was tasked to convince the US State Department to issue as many visas as possible to Jewish refugees who sought to flee to the Philippines.
Their working relationship further developed after a January 1980 series of performances of the complete Beethoven symphonies at Wembley, and a subsequent commercial recording of the Beethoven symphonies for EMI.
Moreover, the criterion of verification is to be applied to the system as a whole (see semantic holism) and not to single sentences.
Duca as the Prime Minister, and a communitarian Jewish Party—his contribution criticized by the latter as an act of political sabotage.
Part of the Czech kindertransport, it was completed in a Dutch Douglas aircraft of KLM, and organised by the Barbican Mission to Jewish People and the British Committee for Refugees from Czechoslovakia (BCRC).
The test, titled the Dubowitz Score, was published in 1970 and was rapidly adopted around the world for distinguishing mature but malnourished babies from premature babies who were appropriately small for their age.
Szmul Zygielbojm, a member of the Jewish advisory body to the Polish government-in-exile, committed suicide in protest at the outcome of the conference.
Among others, he published poetry books What I Seek (1899) and Jahresringe (1908), and comedies The Temperate (1914) and The Daughter (1917).
Under a policy ratified in May 1939, United Kingdom authorities were not allowing Jewish refugees to enter Palestine.
In 1929, he accepted the position of Rav and av beis din (head of the rabbinical court) of Tykocin (Tiktin), and established a yeshiva in that town.
The Zweigs lived only briefly in the US: for two months as guests of Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, then renting a house in Ossining, New York.
Sugihara was too ill to travel to Israel, so his wife and youngest son Nobuki accepted the honor on his behalf.
Biography Born in Radom in 1933 to parents who were both tanners and the only son out of five children, Carmon's parents and three of his sisters were killed in the Treblinka extermination camp during the Holocaust.
She earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Stephens College and a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Missouri School of Law.
His works represent a synthesis of traditional Jewish values and an individualistic lyrical approach to life and its problems; he drew on Jewish sources such as the Bible, the Talmud and the prayer book, but was also influenced by European literature.
In order to cross the border, Samuel-Cahn and the rest of her family had to hide in trucks used to transport potatoes.
Part of this was a group of 22 underage German pioneers, who lived without family in the Netherlands in an Amsterdam boarding house.
As to Felix Meyer's humanitarian activities in wartime Belgium, many testimonies are conserved at Jerusalem's Yad Vashem memorial site.
His name was used to sell many of the luxury products of the time, including Salo Flohr cigarettes, slippers and eau-de-cologne.
High levels of domestic unemployment had also given rise to legal restrictions on the employment of foreigners.
In May 1941 he was sent to America to contribute to astrological magazines and newspapers which at the time were using articles by astrologers favourable to Nazi Germany.
Original compositions include Miskunnarbæn (Icelandic Kyrie) and Svarkurinn, the latter to a poem by the Icelandic writer Grímur Thomsen.
Maglione was "remarkably acquiescent" to the cancellation of the program and his response to the Brazilian ambassador about the possibility of reinstating the program in the future was "agonizingly impersonal and diplomatic".
In 1958, Burack moved to the United States, where she worked with both American and Israeli politicians for Jewish causes.
After his release, he was appointed commander of the Irgun's operational activity in the Petah Tikva District and later in Tel Aviv District.
Following David Ben-Gurion's speech to the Vaad Leumi gathered at the then Tel-Aviv Museum of Art, Sternberg was one of the 37 signatories of the Declaration.
Bernstein was involved in another gun duel at the Parc des Princes in 1911, this time with journalist Gustave Tery.
1215 (Moshe Dolzenowsky); Henry Dunow, The Way Home: Scenes from a Season, Lessons from a Lifetime, New York 2001, pp.
At one party meeting, Eldad lectured on Sulam, Jacob's ladder (based on Genesis 28:10–19, where Jacob dreams of a ladder uniting heaven and earth).
References External links O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Abraham Plessner", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews Abraham Plessner at the Mathematics Genealogy Project
Gruenwald was represented by Shmuel Tamir (1923–1987), a former Irgun commander, who turned the case into one that examined the actions of the governing Zionist Mapai party during the Holocaust, and what had been done to help Europe's Jews.
In 1928, convinced that Russian literature in exile was in fact dead, Slonim moved to Paris and, as an anti-fascist, opened up to Soviet patriotism.
With Jabotinsky’s death in 1940, Sternberg took on an increasingly visible role in leading the Revisionist movement.
Women representatives of women's suffrage organizations sought to introduce women's issues and to the peace discussions at end of the First World War.
Decline Guéron had a bitter rivalry with Charles Schneider and hired skilled artists from Schneider's factory.
Documentary Gaylen Ross directed a feature-length theatrical documentary, Killing Kasztner, which was released in Israel, the United Kingdom and the United States in 2009.
Early life Yaakov (Imre) Weiss was born in 1924 in Nové Zámky, Czechoslovakia, to a Hungarian-speaking Jewish family, the son of Joseph and Helena Weiss.
References Biography at the Syracuse University Library in Syracuse (New York) Bibliography Polish Authors of Today and Yesterday: Bartkiewicz, Falkowski, Gojawiczynska, Morska, Muszal, Olechowski, Orzeszko, Prus, Rey, Reymont, Sienkiewicz, Szymanski, Zeromski, comp.
Principal roles Sarastro (Die Zauberflöte) Commendatore (Don Giovanni) Daland (Der fliegende Holländer) Hermann (Tannhäuser Hunding (Die Walküre) Hagen (Götterdämmerung) King Marke (Tristan und Isolde) Recordings Don Giovanni – Salzburg Festival (1954), conducted by Wilhelm Furtwängler.
Schaary, The Cyprus Detention Camps for Jewish "Illegal" Immigrants to Palestine 1946-1949, Jerusalem 1981 in Hebrew.
The SS drove the men from Budapest to Vienna on 17 May, where they stayed the night in a hotel reserved for the SS.
As an example, his work Leftovers (1970) consists of 80 stacked boxes, stained with fake blood and wrapped with surgical bandages, alluding to state-sanctioned violence and repression during dictatorship.
Officially meant to provide information, Geggel actually dictated which issues are to be reported on, with what priority and how; often, even detailed wording of headlines and specific phrases were prescribed during these Argus.
Fuld was the first female Jewish fighter killed resisting the British during the pre-state conflict.
He went back to CERN in 1973 and was from 1971 to 1980 a member of the advisory board and had an important role in planning the Large Electron Positron Collider (LEP) as well as in discussions for the construction of the Middle East's Synchrotron, SESAME.
He chose not to run for re-election in the 1977 elections, having been an MK for just under 26 years.
In "The Descent", he wrote: your own hands, stronger than your choked outcry, Took your daughter from you.
Later in life was honored by the city of Bratislava, having a multisport stadium named after him in 1966.
His final films, Fedora and Buddy Buddy, failed to impress critics or the public, although Fedora has since been re-evaluated and is now considered favorably.
Senator from Colorado and later President of the United Nations Foundation; Strobe Talbott, Deputy Secretary of Defense under Bill Clinton and President of the Brookings Institution; and Fred Smith, CEO of Federal Express.
From 1920 to 1928, at the Bürgertheater as Kapellmeister, where he conducted the premiere of his operetta Donauweibchen.
Huber delegated most of his duties to his deputy Karl Ebner, who became known as the “gray eminence” of the Vienna Gestapo in light of his nearly unrestricted police powers.
A biography by Shapiro includes letters, stories and memoirs gathered across twenty years of discovery, of people who recounted the central role that Dr.
Happily, aware that the Britain in Pictures series had considerable propaganda value, a friendly civil servant, Richard Cowell, managed to get Neurath released rapidly and he was soon back at work, with eventual naturalization as a British subject to follow.
1919), then worked as a bandmaster at the Moravian Ostrava in 1920, at the Neues Operettenhaus Berlin in 1921, at the Central Theater Berlin in 1922, and was an entertainers' composer.
He founded a branch of the Mizrachi movement, but later joined Agudat Yisrael, becoming a member of the Polish branch's executive committee, and later a member of the World Agudath Israel committee.
Limited, London, 1966) Christoph und sein Vater (1966, Christopher and His Father) Im Jahre Null (1966) Das Netz (1969, The Poisoned Stream) Wien, so wie es war (1969) Wie einst David.
Selected for the Austrian Olympic Team, which was due to compete in the 1936 Summer Olympics in Nazi Germany, she refused to participate, as a protest against the Nazi regime in Germany and their antisemitism.
In 1916 Thrakiki Atmoploia ("Thracian Steamships") acquired her and used her as a coastal trading vessel.
Restitution claims for artworks In 1978, the Deutsch family learned that a painting that had been thought destroyed had survived the war.
The book introduces the subject by giving an idealized historical narrative to motivate the concepts, showing how they developed from classical problems of Greek mathematics.
Soon after Hitler's rise to power in 1933, Orowan, who was of Jewish descent, left his studies and career in Berlin and returned to Hungary.
He went on to University College London (UCL), where he gained a first class honours degree in physiology and physics.
Through a British agent, Frank Foley, passport officer at the Berlin consulate, he kept British intelligence informed of Nazi activities.
Later he calculated that the radiation dose was "quite harmless" but that if he "had hesitated for another two seconds before removing the material ...
He therefore now accepted Chadwick's offer of British citizenship so he could help them escape from Poland.
Even the Ickes plan for settling Jews in Alaska, known as the Slattery Report, did not come to any success.
after crying uncontrollably in Morgenthau's office; Morgenthau helped him gain access to State Department officials.
He attended that meeting of rabbis and congregation leaders in Budapest in March 1944, where the Nazi authorities decided to establish the Jewish Council of Budapest.
There he continued to work as a freelance journalist and critic for the Prague Tagblatt and the Prague Noon.
As Struma she tried to take nearly 800 Jewish refugees who were attempting to illegally immigrate from Romania to British-controlled Palestine in December 1941.
His mother, who died very soon, was remembered by the family as an illiterate, unwholesome woman who had to be supervised by the elder siblings during her depressive periods.
Löb was a naturalized citizen of both Britain and Switzerland, and in 2017, he returned, with his wife Sheila, to live in Zürich.
This was followed by a few years at the University of California, Berkeley, where she taught Spanish, learned Italian and studied Spanish literature.
He was re-elected to the next three Knessets for Gahal and served on the Labor-Welfare and Finance Committees.
Art collector Federer's art collection included works by Lovis Corinth, Claude Monet, and Paul Gauguin.
In the first years after it was created, the Mossad LeAliyah Bet achieved a certain measure of success.
In 2006 the heirs of Otto Nathan Deutsch and the Moderna Museet in Stockholm, Sweden reached a settlement concerning the 1917 Emil Nolde painting Blumengarten (Utenwarf) after a dispute lasting seven years.
Feuerstein illustrates that the key to meaningful instruction for all children, particularly young and low-functioning children, is the mediated relationship.
Ehrenberg's belief that the methods of physical science are applicable to social science was expressed in an article in the hard science journal Nature.
In 1989, Spira was a speaker at the large Alexanderplatz demonstration calling for the current East German government to step down.
Sagall was in the 1967 film Women in the Other Room and played Tzipa-Leah in Behind the Fence seven years later.
From 1993 to 1999 Levy headed Israeli Artists' Association and in 1996 he came out with a biographical book titled Sipurim Im Rotev (Hebrew: סיפורים עם רוטב lit.
These are the Walter Holland Prize for Best Dissertation and the Walter Holland Prize for Best Overall Performance which are awarded annually to MSc Global Health Policy students.
Chirot is also the founder of the journal East European Politics and Societies, and has written and edited many books and articles.
According to the social conventions of the time, marriage meant a withdrawal from public concert life for the violinist.
To celebrate the end of World War II, Molnár wrote and published Isten veled szivem (God Be With You My Heart) and the English Edition of The Captain of St Margaret's.
The Christadelphians made no attempt to convert the children to Christianity, believing that the return of the Jews to Israel was part of God's plan, and that an Orthodox Jewish upbringing was part of this.
Joseph Rosenstock (Polish: Józef Rosenstock, German: Josef Rosenstock; 27 January 1895 in Kraków – 17 October 1985 in New York City) was an American conductor.
The City Council approved on December 27, 2025 the naming of the square as "Largo Piero Sacerdoti" upon completion of the works for the S.
All the firsthand reports are consistent in mentioning the severe discomforts experienced during the journey, in particular the extreme overcrowding in the locked “ cattle cars,” the appalling sanitary conditions, and the minimal food and water available.
Key members were Reverends Isaac Emmanuel Davidson, the Barbican Mission's director, his wife Lucy, and William Edward Wallner, the representative in Prague.
On a trip to the United States in 1922, Milhaud heard "authentic" jazz for the first time, on the streets of Harlem, which greatly influenced his music.
In 1963, he was made deputy head of the West Commission, which was responsible for influencing West German politics.
Having been a member of the leadership of the Dor Hadash faction in the General Zionists, Badian became a member of the Liberal Party when the General Zionists merged into it in 1961.
agreed that the German and Austrian immigration quota of 30,000 a year would be made available to Jewish refugees.
Internment Art Although beset by the humiliations of being a captive of the very people from whom he had sought salvation, Braun-Dusemond, was not too debilitated by his experience in the camps.
England Because of his anti-Nazi publishing activities, Neurath was soon on the Gestapo lists and, after several near misses and a period in hiding, managed to escape to England on 1 June 1938, taking with him his second wife, Marianne.
This plan also came to nothing, but resulted briefly in a position as theatre critic for the Göttinger Zeitung; his critical notes were later collected in book form as Nachtkritiken.
This wave of immigration began as a pioneering one, but with the onset of racial persecution in Nazi Germany attained the character of a mass migration between 1933 and 1939, with at least 55,000 Jews from Central Europe immigrating to Palestine or residing there as semi-permanent residents.
He did play periodically at high levels, both within the Soviet Union and abroad, with some success, until the late 1960s.
While fording the Sava River under heavy Serbian fire, many of his comrades in arms died, or were severely wounded.
He also lectured and wrote about regulation, broadcasting, telecommunications, and the information society.
He was also a European heavyweight wrestling champion, and for 10 years he held the title of Austrian heavyweight wrestling champion.
Bejski delivered an emotional account of the circumstances at the camp and he conveyed the many crimes committed there to the court.
See also Lord Moyne SS Exodus – a former US packet ship carrying 4,515 Jewish refugees who were denied entry to Palestine in 1947.
In the 1950s, while commanding a training base for new recruits, he met his second wife, Hadassah Mor, who was 16 years his junior.
In 1990 the Katins returned to New York where she continued working in background design for the Walt Disney Animation Studios, Nickelodeon Animation Studio and MTV Animation until 2000.
Overall, the Mossad LeAliyah Bet was able to bring about 100,000 Jews into what was to become the State of Israel.
When the Ullmann family, which had changed its name to Ulin, located the painting, they requested it be returned, but the museum refused.
Academic Andrea Hammel noted that due to the self-reported nature of the archive, it cannot be considered a holistic representation of the experiences of Jewish refugees.
In 1972, he defended his doctoral dissertation on "Yevsektsiya in the Soviet Union" and began teaching at the Hebrew University.
Later that year, the Nazis were going to arrest the other Jews in Oslo, however, Samuel-Cahn's family were moved by members of the underground, Ingebjørg Sletten-Fosstvedt and Sigrid Helliesen Lund, to safety and later to a refugee camp in neutral Sweden.
When the Bavarian Soviet Republic was defeated, Neurath was imprisoned but returned to Austria after intervention from the Austrian government.
Zuckermann spent his career in all segments of the wood industry, including the great forests of Bialowieza (portions of which are in Poland), and in his early work the Austrio-Hungarian Empire.
cellular and genetic biological approaches over a direct attack at the molecular level (Ephrussi 1970, p.
His theory made specific predictions of the behaviour of metals at very low temperatures, but another twenty years would pass before the techniques were developed to confirm them experimentally.
Ben-Zion Halfon (Hebrew: בן-ציון חלפון; 1930 – 21 September 1977) was an Israeli politician who served as a member of the Knesset for the Alignment between 1969 and 1977.
Even though he was technically a professor of sociology, he wouldn't employ his own students, so I benefited from this, and he assumed that anybody in philosophy would be an evolutionary Hobhousean like himself.
References External links Story of Yaakov Weiss (Hebrew) Yaakov Weiss Archived 2014-08-03 at the Wayback Machine (Irgun website)
Rotblat's parents could not afford to send him to a gymnasium, so Rotblat received his secondary education in a cheder taught by a local rabbi.
Ester Samuel-Cahn (Hebrew: אסתר שמואל-כחן; May 16, 1933 – November 20, 2015) was an Israeli statistician and educator.
Even today, Fürnberg's name is most strongly associated with the song "Die Partei" (The Party is always right), which he wrote after he was insulted not to be invited to the 9th Congress of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia in May 1949.
He then returned to Hungary and from there Lorincz made aliyah to Mandatory Palestine in 1939, and was involved in illegal immigration of Jews from Hungary.
Public policy In 2016, Munk made a $5 million donation to the Fraser Institute, a think tank, to launch the Peter Munk Centre for Free Enterprise Education.
He was born in Vienna, the city to which his father had escaped during World War I together with his great-uncle, Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov Friedman, the third Sadigura Rebbe.
His historical essay on Volya Rossii was published in 1972, as part of Nikolai Poltoratsky's review of Russian literature in exile.
She portrayed the part of Leah in the 1990 film Parents and Sons, Fence in the television series Itche in 1997, the groom in Urban Feel a year later, Chesha in the 2006 film The Galilee Eskimos and played Friedel in the 2008 film Valentina's Mother.
Furthermore, he edited the Progress in Optics series of books, for Elsevier, from its inception in 1962.
et al (2014), Hagenbund: A European Network of Modernism, 1900 to 1938, Hirmer on behalf of the Belvedere, Vienna.
In 1946, Kamm returned to New York and three years later earned a bachelor's degree from New York University.
The Winton Train departed on 1 September 2009, the 70th anniversary of the eighth, and intended last, train arranged by Winton to carry children to safety but was prevented from doing so due to the outbreak of World War II on that very day.
In 1942 Thomas C Wilwerth of New York bought Hochelaga, and commissioned Sullivan Shipyard in Brooklyn to convert her boiler furnaces from coal to oil fuel.
The father himself had a huge impact on Szondi, influencing his fate-analytical works to a great extent.
He was among the first conductors to perform and record Deryck Cooke's completion of Gustav Mahler's Symphony No.
He continued using homological methods in a sequence of papers in which he extended the classical cohomology of groups to the cohomology of arbitrary permutation representations of finite groups.
References External links Media related to Bracha Fuld at Wikimedia Commons Fuld Family Papers at the Bentley Historical Library (University of Michigan)
This was followed the next year by his 500-page The Mirror of Magic, which he wrote and illustrated.
In Red Vienna, he joined the Social Democrats and became secretary of the Austrian Association for Settlements and Small Gardens (Verband für Siedlungs-und Kleingartenwesen), a collection of self-help groups that set out to provide housing and garden plots to its members.
The whereabouts of the central archives of the Central Agency for Jewish Emigration in Vienna remain unknown.
Career Stage Between 1953 and 1959, he started work at the Cameri Theatre and after returning from the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art, he began acting in Israeli plays and films.
Concurrently and independently, Citron developed a serodiagnostic test for tuberculosis using the entire bacterium.
As Moscovici notes, he was pushed out by the Mishmar faction, who, while espousing a left-wing agenda, was also interested in speeding up mass emigration for Jewish workers.
As well as developing his own career Braun-Dusemond was eager to encourage a whole series of young Maltese artists, including John Borg Manduca and Mary de Piro.
In the documentary, Ze'ev Eckstein states that after he fired a blank or a dud, Kasztner ran in the dark into the bushes by his building.
Snapper's paper The Three Crises in Mathematics: Logicism, Intuitionism and formalism won the 1980 Carl B.
3; a fragment of an unidentified "larger work", but characters recognizably from Ludzie miejscowi) Edmund ("Edmund"; Wiadomości: tygodnik (London), vol.
Weiss was elected to Congress in 1976, representing most of Manhattan's West Side, and served from January 3, 1977, until his death.
Early and later life Born to an itinerant Jewish musician in Podgórze near Kraków (his birthplace exists at the Kalwaryjska str.
Kasztner moved to Israel after the war, becoming a spokesman for the Ministry of Trade and Industry in 1952.
Meiselman, initiated the so-called "monetary/fiscal policy debate" among economists, which went on for more than sixty years.
Emil Faktor (31 August 1876 – 10 April 1942) was a German language theater critic, editor and writer.
In June 1987, Schulman and other Aliya Bet volunteers were honored by Israeli President Chaim Herzog for their contributions to the State of Israel.
Worked with Bill Gates before Microsoft was formed and was the technical editor of "Popular Electronics" magazine.
AFSC's original mission arose from the need to provide conscientious objectors (COs) with a constructive alternative to military service.
Between 1925 and 1926 he worked as director of the Jewish National Fund's newspaper bureau in Poland, and from 1926 until 1927 worked as a journalist for a Polish language newspaper in Paris.
He was subsequently expelled from the group and Breton blocked him from taking part in a major Surrealist exhibition at D'Arcy Galleries.
Tempelsman was a board member of the Southern African Enterprise Development Fund, and past chairman and long-serving board member of the Africa-America Institute.
Due to the atmosphere and his unyielding stance in these sessions, even questioning Geggel being suspect, journalists sometimes referred to him as "Dr.
The MFA had purchased the painting from Thomas Agnew & Sons, Ltd, which had acquired it at Christie's.
On December 6, 1938, Prime Minister Fumimaro Konoe, Foreign Minister Hachirō Arita, Army Minister Seishirō Itagaki, Naval Minister Mitsumasa Yonai, and Finance Minister Shigeaki Ikeda met to discuss the dilemma at the "Five Ministers' Conference".
Fate of sister ships Pandeli Brothers, who bought Thraki in 1916 and renamed her Eustratios, bought Ionia at the same time and renamed her Katherina.
Origin of the Name Ezer After Israel fought and won its War of Independence, Alexander Yevserov and his good friend Moshe Shertok wanted new names to go along with their new state.
In response to her 1962 inquiry at the auction house of Rudolf Neumeister, who had acquired Weinmüller's auction house in the late 1950s, she was told that all records had been burned during the war.
An account in the Prism : An Interdisciplinary Journal for Holocaust Educators says that his father found his way to England to look for the boy, while the rest of his family were killed.
In the 1930s, he was music director of the Bremen State Opera (likely the Stadttheater am Wall, destroyed in Allied bombings in 1944) and of the State Philharmonia of Kiev.
In areas where the pacifist churches were more well known (such as Pennsylvania), a number of draft boards were willing to assign COs to AFSC for alternative service.
He reported from Eastern Europe on the resistance against the communist regimes and made friends with Václav Havel, Jiří Dienstbier, and Stefan Heym.
Mitchell's hypothesis that contrary to popular opinion, ATP synthesis was not coupled to respiration through a high-energy intermediate but instead by a transmembrane proton gradient.
He joined the University of Edinburgh, and after 2 years there, became a lecturer in the Department of Mathematics (after gaining a DSc in 1940 based on his already extensive published work).
Philippines Manuel Quezon, the president of the Philippines, under the Open Doors policy planned to accept Jewish refugees from Europe.
He died in Alexandria on 15 December 1940 from malignant hyperthermia after a minor operation to deal with a thrombosis.
Following this, AFSC established clinics for distributing medicines, conducted malaria control efforts, and organized water distribution.
In 1940 an agreement was signed and Rafael Trujillo donated 11,000 hectares (26,000 acres) of his properties near the town of Sosúa, Dominican Republic for settlements.
Published works The Knesset and Me (1979) (in Hebrew) See also Newspapers of Israel References External links Yohanan Bader on the Knesset website
In the years 1940 through 1942, more than 100,000 refugees of all nationalities, religions, and political persuasions left France, either legally with a visa to another country, most commonly the United States, or illegally by crossing the border into Spain or Switzerland.
The refugee organizations employed or took on volunteers of many nationalities, including French people resident in Vichy.
Paradise Papers On November 5, 2017, the Paradise Papers, a set of confidential electronic documents relating to offshore investment, revealed that the Appleby law firm had worked for Rich and Glencore on major projects in the past, even after his indictment in 1983.
Sefton Delmer, a notable purveyor of black propaganda, arranged a fake document certifying de Wohl as a Captain in the British Army, and he took to wearing the uniform though he refrained when he realized the position was untenable.
In 1919 he became the first professor of anthropology at the University of Budapest and a member of the local psychoanalytic society.
In addition to these books, Zweig had continued her work as a journalist, and up to 2013 was writing a column Meine Welt [My World] for the newspaper Frankfurter Neue Presse.
He lost his seat in the 1955 elections The following year he became secretary of Herzliya Workers Council, a position he held until 1964.
Career For a period, he lived amongst Bedouins near Amman, Bet She'an, and Kuneitra in order to learn their lifestyle.
As German oppression of Jews grew in the 1930s, Fraenkel's mother pleaded with her husband to leave the country but he only agreed after Kristallnacht in 1938.
For a while he became a qualified Revolutionary Defencist, siding with Mensheviks like Dan and Tsereteli against Martov.
References External links Collections by Jacoby Jacoby's publications Archived 8 December 2023 at the Wayback Machine
Following military service in entertainment units, Levi joined HaTarnegolim and afterwards joined the HaGashash HaHiver trio in late 1963.
in philosophy from the University of Chicago and became a professor at Illinois Institute of Technology.
Modigliani died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 2003, while still working at MIT, and teaching until the last months of his life.
After the premature death of her father, victim of cancer, in the late 1920s, the family began to suffer severe financial difficulties.
Saale 1905 Neue Studien zur Aristotelischen Rhetorik, insbesondere über das genos epideiktikon, Halle a.
Together with Max Liebermann, Carl Steffeck: (1818–1890); seine Kunst, sein Leben, seine Werke was published to accompany the exhibition from Carl Steffeck's estate in 1913.
His wife and two children were killed in the Holocaust, and Nurock emigrated to Mandatory Palestine in 1947.
Kornblit worked as the Executive Vice President of worldwide marketing for Universal Pictures before pursuing an acting career during retirement.
Biography Zimmerman was born in 1913 in Skala-Podilska in Austria-Hungary (today in Ukraine), the son of Benjamin (Alter) Zimmerman and Zlata Pessia (Babe) Bitterman.
In 1998, Losa received the Grand Prize from the Portuguese Writers Association for her collection of articles called À Flor do Tempo.
After returning home from being a sergeant in World War I, Kay married his wife, Minnie, and founded the District Grocery Society renamed District Grocery Stores (DGS) in 1928.
Shortly afterwards he was appointed deputy commander of "HaSharon Company," later becoming its commander.
On the third day, the train arrived on the North Sea coast at the Dutch ferry port, Hook of Holland, crossing the Dutch - German border at Emmerich am Rhein and passing through the Netherlands via Rotterdam.
The Avengers were one of four predominantly Jewish groups that operated within the command of the Soviet-led partisans, and they did significant damage, destroying over 180 miles of train tracks, 5 bridges, 40 enemy train cars, killing 212 enemy soldiers and rescuing at least 71 Jews.
In 1970, La Marzocco patented its first series of professional semi-automatic, dual-boiler machines named GS (Gruppo Saturo, saturated group), winning the Qualità e Cortesia-Toscana prize in 1971.
The small production quantity and the labor involved in production contribute to the coffee's high cost.
History Alfonso Bialetti first acquired his metal-working skills by working for a decade in the French aluminium industry.
Every year on 3 March, Yemenis celebrate the "Yemeni Coffee Day," a national festival to encourage coffee cultivation.
The local culture consists of various, and often quite similar, traditions practiced by the nation's many Cushitic and Ethiopian Semitic-speaking Afro-Asiatic ethnic groups, in addition to those practiced by the area's Nilotic minorities.
Poschetzau ("MCP") (Poschetzau), Max Roesler Feinsteingutfabrik (Rodach, Germany), Hutschenreuther (Selb / Bavaria, Germany), Rosenthal & Co.
Yields of over 22% are considered over-extracted and are often associated with a predominant bitterness – bitter compounds are extracted after acids and sugars have largely dissolved.
Moka coffee characteristics Brewed coffee flavor, including that of a moka pot depends greatly on bean variety, roast level, fineness of grind, water profile, and the level of heat used.
Once released, it then took between three and six minutes for the coffee to drip through the meanwhile settled coffee bed into the coffee pot, a method sometimes also called cake filtration.
As extraction time increases, the risk of unwanted solubles – often associated with overwhelming bitterness – being extracted also increases.
Machines Home espresso machines have increased in popularity with the general rise of interest in espresso.
Metal mugs were produced from bronze, silver, gold, and even lead, starting from roughly 2000 BCE, but were hard to use with hot drinks.
See also Bialetti De'Longhi FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Rancilio Saeco References External links Official website The Benefits of an E61 Group Head
Coffee machine placed only the water in a reservoir above the pot, where it was heated by an electrical element and allowed to "drip" freely through the basket of ground coffee and into a carafe below.
As coffee consumption grew in Italy throughout the 20th century, La Marzocco introduced several technical innovations to its espresso machine designs.
Retrieved 21 September 2023.{{cite news}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) External links Official website
Improvements The method for making coffee in a percolator had changed very little since the introduction of the electric percolator in the early part of the 1900s.
Among the early electrical drip coffee machines was a machine designed by two former Westinghouse engineers and sold under the brand Mr.
The system is designed to remedy the defects of coffee pods which, if not correctly inserted, cause water leakage and alteration of the drink.
The jebenas used in Ethiopia commonly have a spout, whereas those utilized in Eritrea usually do not.
During the same year a feasibility study with the creation of some subsystems was conducted in order to validate the technological choices.
In the Gulf states, qahwa khaleeji (literally "Gulf coffee") is typically has a bright yellow due to the heavy use of saffron and cardamom, and very light roasts.
History and terminology In Vietnamese, vợt means a net or strainer; in this context it refers to the reusable cloth filter used for brewing, and cà phê vợt refers to coffee prepared with that filter.
A tasse à café (French pronunciation: [tɑs‿a kafe], coffee cup) is a cup, generally of white porcelain and of around 120 ml (4 fl oz), in which coffee is served.
Use of reusable cups declined sharply to reduce the chance of infection with the onset of the COVID pandemic in 2020, and as of 2023 had not returned to previous levels.
It is typically brewed in a dallah or cezve, and served in a small cup decorated with a pattern, known as a finjān.
His cockiness provides a stark contrast to the humble obsessiveness of the other four personalities.
Other relevant contributions to the technology used in espresso machines include the cappuccinatore (introduced in 1996) as well as the automatic brewing pressure adaptation "SBS" (1999) and most recently, the announcement of the bluetooth-enabled GranBaristo Avanti (2013).
History Founding Vincent Marotta and Samuel Glazer founded a company in Cleveland, Ohio focused on coffee delivery called North American Systems (NAS) in the early 1970s.
They founded the company in 1992, calling it Keurig; Sylvan later said that the name came from his having "looked up the word excellence in Dutch".
In 1967, the Boston, Massachusetts-based conglomerate Gillette Group acquired a majority share of the company.
companies also began manufacturing the machines in 1947, and by 1955 over 60,000 existed in the U.S.
The decline of the formal tea party led to the disappearance of the sugar tongs, in the 21st century they are considered an oddity at the table in their original role, but had acquired a new meaning: the tongs now represent Englishness (somewhere along with Miss Marple).
Major results Source: 1955 – Faema–Guerra 1956 – Faema–Guerra–Van Hauwaert 1957 – Faema–Guerra 1958 – Faema–Guerra–Clément 1959 – Faema–Guerra 1960 – Faema 1961 – Faema 1962 – Faema 1963 – Faema–Flandria References External links Media related to Faema (cycling team, 1955–1962) at Wikimedia Commons
In 1985, they launched the first completely automatic espresso machine for domestic use, called Superautomatica and in 1999 they bought the historic espresso brand Gaggia.
It subsequently expanded into other kitchen products, such as a related tea maker, juicer, and food dehydrator, and integrated wireless technology into a "smart" version of its coffeemaker.
However, since such vessels are generally filled at most up to the edge of the round part of the flask, an advantageous rise at the neck is then obtained when pouring horizontally.
Die Karlsbader Kanne , 5 teilig, € 99,99 (3911 Arnreith) - willhaben Otruba, Gustav [in German] (1964).
The term “white coffee” in Britain usually means coffee that has some kind of cream or milk added to it, and distinct from “black coffee” which has no dairy components at all.
It uses a reusable cloth filter suspended in a metal ring to steep and strain ground coffee into a pot, producing coffee that is brewed in batches and kept warm for pour-out service.
In 1657, Swedish diplomat Claes Rålamb encountered coffee during a diplomatic mission to Constantinople.
The second model, known as the Elegance Model, was developed to test the mechanical functions of the machine: many of the mechanical components correspond with those used for the flight unit.
Shots were longer and took more time to pull—almost a minute, around twice that of the modern espresso.
The new product was marketed under the Carnation label with the brand name Coffee-Mate and released in 1961, shortly after the commercial introduction of Rich Products' CoffeeRich.
Coffee was introduced to Sweden in the late 17th century, and today coffee plays a significant role in Swedish culture, characterised by Sweden ranking among the world's top coffee consumers per capita, and a distinct tradition of coffee breaks known as Fika.
Achieving desired extraction An extraction yield of 18% to 22% is desirable for most traditional coffee beverages.
Singapore The name kopitiam symbolizes Singapore's multilingual culture: "kopi" is Malay for coffee, while "tiam" is Hokkien (or Fukienese) for shop.
"Application of gas chromatography/flame ionization detector-based metabolite fingerprinting for authentication of Asian palm civet coffee (Kopi Luwak)" (PDF).
Museum In October 2010, the Rancilio family, in partnership with the Rancilio Group, opened the Museo Officina Rancilio 1926 as the official museum of Rancilio coffee machines.
Indonesia In Indonesia, the term white coffee or kopi putih refers to coffee beans which are roasted less than regular coffee beans.
In 2018, India-based Orient Electric partnered with De'Longhi to market small kitchen appliances in India.
The moka pot, also known as the "Italian coffeepot" or the "caffettiera," is a three-chamber design which boils water in the lower section.
Consumer demand for a home-use brewer version increased, but manufacturing a model small enough to fit on a kitchen counter and making them inexpensively enough to be affordable to consumers, took time.
Eugster/Frismag is strictly an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and does not sell under its own brand.
The baristas with the highest scores advance from the first and second rounds, and the barista with the greatest score in the final round wins the title.
The size can be a single, double or triple, using a proportional amount of ground coffee, roughly 7, 14, and 21 grams; correspondingly sized filter baskets are used.
White coffee is black coffee with unheated milk or creamer added to it; this is the most popular way of drinking coffee in the United States.
Taste Because the ground coffee beans in cold-brewed coffee never come into contact with heated water, the process of leaching flavor from the beans produces a chemical profile different from conventional brewing methods.
The original use of pod machines in Italy was to relieve designated office personnel from the tedium of continuous espresso brewing for office staff.
Very finely ground coffee, optionally sugar, and water are placed in a narrow-topped pot, called a cezve (Turkish), kanaka (Egyptian), briki (Greek), džezva (Štokavian) or turka (Russian) and brought to the boil then immediately removed from the heat.
A demitasse typically has a capacity of approximately 60–90 millilitres (2–3 US fl oz), half the size of a full coffee cup (a tasse à café is about 120 millilitres (4 US fl oz)).
Batch brewing keeps coffee available during peak hours and supports faster service from a single pot.
Since then, they continue to sell these filters under their own Friesland label, whereas Melitta itself switched to produce these filters in China.
The device uses an infusion method for brewing coffee with a stainless steel filter and a ceramic pot.
A coffee professional compared the same beans with and without the kopi luwak process using a rigorous coffee cupping evaluation.
At the end of the first round, the competitors with the six highest scores advance to the semifinals round and join the twelve competitors who earned a bye from CoffeeChamps.
"Selection of Discriminant Markers for Authentication of Asian Palm Civet Coffee (Kopi Luwak): A Metabolomics Approach" (PDF).
On 5 October 2020, Python 3.9 released with an updated HTTP library including 418 IM_A_TEAPOT status code.
See also Coffee portal Minto wheel Bodum, makers of the Santos, Pebo and ePebo vacuum coffee makers References External links Vac Pot How-To pdf Siphon brewer in operation, Sydney Australia
With the help of a suitable pot geometry (or a sufficiently high pouring speed) it can be avoided that the liquid reaches the spout and thus triggers the teapot effect.
Some shapes of cup, such as the wide and shallow Greek phiale (Roman patera, more a dish than a cup) seem mainly to have been used for this, while others were used for both this and drinking.
The addition of sugar during the torrefacto roasting process increases the production of compounds with antioxidant properties.
Braun's first electric shaver, known as the S 50, was designed in 1938, but World War II delayed its introduction until 1951.
The scientist Daniel Bernoulli dealt with this question as early as the beginning of the 18th century.
The machine was invented in the United States by the Rudd-Melikian company in 1947, debuting as the "Kwik Kafe".
Customers who participated in the coffee maker recall were shipped a replacement component which will help prevent the contents of a defective T-Disc from spraying if the T-Disc bursts.
Brewed or boiled, non espresso-based Black coffee is drip-brewed, percolated, vacuum brewed, or French-press-style coffee served without cream or sugar.
The external and internal structure of the machine was designed and tested to support the loads transmitted by the launch of the SpaceX CRS-6 spacecraft.
In addition to home espresso machines, Illy offers professional Francis Francis X7.1 iperEspresso machines for hotels and restaurants.
Ristretto, one of the strongest traditional coffee drinks, can contain up to 0.75 g of solubles per 15 gram serving (over 5% of total volume), making it more than four times as strong as the typical coffee beverage.
Amateur filmmakers and pyrotechnicians have taken advantage of this property to produce several types of fireball effects.
They also presented the jury with expert testimony that 190 °F (88 °C) coffee may produce third-degree burns (where skin grafting is necessary) in about three seconds and 180 °F (82 °C) coffee may produce such burns in about 12 to 15 seconds.
In 1894, the Wilda'sche coffee filter device by Eugen Wilda used single-use cloth filter bags, which, in the corresponding patent, were considered to be superior to paper filter bags presumably already in use at the time.
It has been featured in the novel From Russia with Love, in a scene where James Bond eats breakfast, the film Harper starring Paul Newman, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, and Ira Levin's Rosemary's Baby, as well as its film adaptation.
The method involves pouring water over a bed of coffee (sometimes also called cake) in a filter-lined conical, trapezoid, or cylindrical chamber typically consisting of a filter and a suitable filter holder.
A food writer reviewed kopi luwak available to American consumers and concluded, "It tasted just like...Folgers.
Thermal transport When placed beneath a cup, saucers have very little direct influence on beverage cooling rate.
The company employs around 420 people at the Weggis site in 2021 and sells its coffee machines in 80 countries worldwide.
A jebena is usually made of clay and has a spherical base, a neck and pouring spout and a handle where the neck connects with the base.
Any coffee bean may be used; arabica varieties are considered best, but robusta or a blend is also used.
A patent was filed by a Frenchman, Marcel-Pierre Paquet dit Jolbert, officially published on 5 August 1924.
Overview The center of the saucer often contains a depression or raised ring sized to fit a matching cup; this was only introduced in the mid 18th century.
Child development Drinking from a cup is a significant step on a baby's path to becoming a toddler; it is recommended that children switch from bottles to cups between six months and one year of age.
are, in no particular order, International Paper, LBP Manufacturing, Java Jacket, and Labansat & Schulz Manufacturing.
Package teapot HTCPCP-TEA implementation by David Skinner save418.com error418.net Archived 2021-01-07 at the Wayback Machine
There is no universal standard defining the process of extracting espresso, but several institutions have published definitions that restrict the amount and type of ground coffee used, the temperature and pressure of the water, and the rate of extraction.
A mihbaj (Arabic: مهباج) is a traditional Arabic implement, made of a wooden base with a foot-long pestle, that serves both as a coffee grinder and as a percussion instrument.
A chorreador is a coffee making device used in Costa Rica in which hot water leaches through coffee grounds held in a cloth filter mounted on a wooden stand, then drips into a container.
Modern steins typically come in sizes of a liter or half-liter, and are often made with hinged metal lids.
Soon after this, the Breville toasted sandwich maker was launched in New Zealand and the United Kingdom, where it was met with similar success.
The Italian multiplier term doppio is often used for a double, with solo and triplo being more rarely used for singles and triples.
There were 164 reports of the malfunction made, among which there were 61 injuries including facial and hand burns.
Historically a major producer of portable heaters and air conditioners, the company has expanded to include nearly every category of small domestic appliances in the food preparation and cooking, as well as household cleaning and ironing, segments.
Contrasts with other immersion brewing methods The AeroPress may use a finer grind than other immersion brewers and may take less time to brew coffee, sometimes around 30 seconds.
In 1974, Breville released the toasted sandwich maker, making the Breville brand a household name in Australia.
FLAVIA markets several different machines, such as large coin-operated machines and small portable machines designed for home use.
Coffee and Espresso Machines Verismo 801 and Thermoplan Black & White The Verismo 801 was a superautomatic coffee machine designed exclusively for Starbucks, until discontinued in 2008.
The server is required to hold the Dallah with the palm of his right hand positioned at the top, while using the left hand to hold the cup.
Boiling water is poured slowly over the coffee grounds, and the liquid seeps through, making coffee, which drips into the waiting container.
In 1989, Natural Brown coffee filters made from unbleached pulp were introduced, which kept unwanted by-products from leaching into the environment.
In popular culture In the movie The Bucket List, billionaire health care magnate Edward Cole (played by Jack Nicholson) brings kopi luwak with him on all of his travels but is unaware of how the drink is produced.
Devices similar to the SoftBrew include manual drip coffee makers, French press coffee makers, the Empot, and, to a limited extent, other pour-over and drip coffee filters.
Farmers using caged palm civets in north Sumatra confirmed that they supplied kopi luwak beans to exporters whose produce ends up in Europe and Asia.
Cuppetiello The cuppetiello is a small paper cone (which is used in other ways in Naples, such as holding food) that goes over the spout.
The Linea PB, named after the machine's designer, Piero Bambi, is introduced at the 2013 Boston SCAA conference.
Generally, the upper filter disc is retained on the bottom of the upper chamber by the rubber gasket, which acts as a flexible internal circlip; this filter disc prevents coffee grounds from moving up the spout of the upper chamber.
Die Kanne selbst stehe möglichst nicht auf der heißen Herdplatte, was dem Geschmack nicht zuträglich ist, sondern auf kleiner Flamme im Wasserbad.
Eugster/Frismag AG, headquartered in Amriswil, Switzerland, is an OEM producer of home appliances, especially coffee machines which are sold under many well-known international brand names.
In inverted brewing, the plunger is placed into the column from the beginning, close to the "top" of the column, and the entire AeroPress stands upside-down, resting on the top of the plunger.
Vittoria Coffee is a brand of coffee products manufactured by Vittoria Food and Beverage of Australia.
The majority at the time were "sugar bows" with two elaborately decorated hands with openwork that were joined by a flexible arc hammered into a spring, so that the hands opened when no pressure was applied to the arms.
Coffee endured a leveraged buyout and two significant changes in ownership before being acquired by Health O Meter Products, Inc.
Religious denominations with fewer than 5% adherents include Protestants, Seventh-day Adventists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Baha'is, Buddhists and Hindus.
Marotta and Glazer hired two former Westinghouse engineers, Edmund Abel and Edwin Schulze, to engineer the idea.
However, whilst they are zero-bypass flat-bottom French drip coffee pots with permanent filters, they too cannot be counted as Karlsbad-style coffee makers because they do not feature a cross-slit double-layered filter sieve and also because they are not made out of porcelain.
The rhyton, especially the types with a hole in the bottom, was one of many cup shapes used for libations.
In its most basic form, Persian Gulf or Arabic coffee has simple ingredients and preparation: water, lightly roasted coffee, and ground cardamom are boiled in a dallah for 10 to 20 minutes and served unfiltered in demitasse cups.
In a statement, Breville CEO Jim Clayton said, “The acquisition of LELIT brings together the two great coffee cultures of the world: Italy and Australia...
"The conditions are awful, much like battery chickens", said Chris Shepherd, deputy regional director of TRAFFIC in Southeast Asia.
Breville Group Limited In 2008, Housewares International Limited officially changed its name to the Breville Group Limited.
Subtypes Travel mugs Travel mugs (introduced in the 1980s) generally employ thermal insulation properties for transporting hot or cold liquids.
Retrieved 2023-01-29.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)[5] Mugele, Frieder G.
The technical judges are not served drinks, but score the competitor on items ranging from cleanliness to consistency of shot times.
A translation of Al-Jaziri's manuscript traces the spread of coffee from Arabia Felix (the present day Yemen) northward to Mecca and Medina, and then to the larger cities of Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad, and Constantinople.
For immersion brewing methods, such as French press and vacuum brewing, extraction takes place slowly.
This is the ISBN of the second edition (2020), however, the ISBN of the first edition (2013) appears to be the same.) Mani San Max, Isabelle.
Infolge einer Bohrung durch den Ausguß und einer dünnen Rille auf der Innenseite der Tülle strömt die Flüssigkeit nach dem Aufrichten der Kanne durch Kapillarkraft zurück.
The latter part of the reign of George II and early reign of George III exhibited a very large variety of patterns pierced and chased onto the tongs.
The company Web site said in 2018 that it had been roasting coffee in Cherry Hill for more than 50 years.
The team decided to continue with production in the United States, rather than moving to Mexico, as was their initial plan.
As of 2020, Friesland was the only remaining manufacturer of any of them; however, their Varel production site burnt down in a fire on 29 June 2023, now pending its reconstruction.
Design The brewer consists of a translucent cylindrical chamber, and a plunger with an airtight silicone seal, similar to a syringe.
The six competitors with the highest combined score from the first round will go on to compete in the finals round consisting exclusively of an open service.
Cuisine Typically, Eritrean cuisine consists of various stews (tsebhi) made from vegetables and meat, and served atop a large, flat sourdough bread called injera, tayta, "shuro", "alicha" and "hamly".
The best-known rider competing for a team sponsored by Faema was 5-time Tour de France champion Eddy Merckx.
The highly popular 3Mix (German, Drei-Mix) mixing machine was released in 1959 and soon became a fixture in nearly every second West German household, followed in 1961 by the ONKO coffee machine, available as the F468 until 2014.
As Dickie is pulling a shot in extreme close-up, he remarks, "Now you’ll find out why Miss Sherwood always shows up for breakfast, Tom.
In the first round, every competitor is required to complete two coffee services: a compulsory service and an open service.
The introduction of the iron stove in the 19th century made home coffee brewing accessible, and coffee became central to Swedish households.
During the summer of 2015, Brad Kifferstein appeared on CNBC's Power Pitch, where his pitch received one "in" and two "out" votes from the panelists.
27: Eine tropfende Schnaupe ist nicht nur bei den Kannen, die in der Gastronomie eingesetzt werden, ein Ärgernis.
Caffeine is extracted early in the brewing process, so longer extraction does not result in significantly more caffeinated coffee.
Early AeroPress models used clear polycarbonate, but in 2009 switched to BPA-free copolyester, then in 2014 to polypropylene.
Cold water is poured into a separate chamber, which is then boiled and directed into the funnel and allowed to drip through the grounds under gravity.
The machine combined a method similar to a French press with a vacuum mechanism that separated the liquid from the grounds.
The word originates from Arabic: طاس, romanized: ṭās, from the Persian: طاس, romanized: ṭās, meaning cup or bowl.
Michael Phillips is a barista who won the United States Barista Championship in Portland, Oregon, in March 2009, while working at Intelligentsia Coffee & Tea in Chicago, IL.
(The Silvia may thus be understood as an example of old wine in a new bottle.) As a result, the Silvia weighs 14 kilograms (31 lb), more than 50% more than its ancestor Audrey's 9 kilograms (20 lb).
Piega, San Leo (Rimini), Italy / Crocetta del Montella (Treviso), Italy: Collezione Enrico Maltoni / Grafiche Antiga S.p.a.
History In 1975 Eric Favre, an employee of Nestlé, noticed that a coffee bar near the Pantheon in Rome had a disproportionately large number of customers.
Philips Saeco S.p.A., or short Saeco, is an Italian manufacturer of manual, super-automatic and capsule espresso machines and other electrical goods with headquarters and factories in Gaggio Montano near Bologna.
A mug without a handle, i.e., a bowl or a beaker, is topologically equivalent to a saucer, which is quite evident when a raw clay bowl is flattened on a potter's wheel.
Pew research estimates that 63.5% are Christian, and 36.5% follows Islam, In 2010, the United States Department of State (USDoS) estimated that 65% of the population was Christian and around 35% was Muslim.
Coffee is steeped inside, then forced through the filter by pressing the plunger down through the chamber.
Practices may include repeated pours, recirculating the first draw, and heat management to control strength and avoid undesirable flavors.
Popular culture There have been several parodies in popular media, such as in the Back to the Future trilogy as Mr.
Some of the machines, particularly older models, utilize powdered instant coffee mixed with hot water, and some of these offer condiments such as cream and sugar.
The beverage is often made for celebrations; a sweet honey wine (called Mies) is also commonly served.
Handling of a used moist coffee pod is not necessary if the brewing device has a removable filter tray.
pod), is a small packed coffee pod with a paper filter covering for use in a non-grinding espresso machine.
Preparation: one spoonful of instant coffee (and sugar if one wishes) in a shaker with some water (and milk).
The new machines contained much smaller boilers, which generated steam to push water into a receptacle.
The resulting beverage is unbalanced and often associated with a predominantly sour taste – acids are extracted early in the brewing process, while balancing compounds such as sugars and bitter substances are extracted later.
The Bauhaus interpretation of this device can be seen in Gerhard Marcks' Sintrax coffee maker of 1925.
as the "midnight dust" characters threw into a campfire to make an explosive puff of smoke and sparks as they introduced the episode's story.
Others produce a similar effect by having shutters that can be closed via the top of the press, sealing the grounds off from the coffee entirely.
French drip coffee pots don't use paper filters but a permanent filter featuring many small round drilled holes made out of (enameled) metal, ceramics or porcelain.
Along with the shop's co-founders, the shop convinced the owners of the historic Maxwell House Hotel to use their coffee, forming Maxwell House Coffee.
The annual location of the event is determined by the World Coffee Events organizing committee, and is typically held in conjunction with the World Barista Championship, the World Coffee Roasting Championship, and the World Latte Art Championship.
A commonly recommended brewing temperature for traditional coffee beverages is 91–94 °C (196–201 °F), which facilitates full extraction of desired compounds.
The Hario cold brew dripper Slow Brew "Shizuku" (WDC-6) and Water Dripper Clear (WDW-6) take 58 mm round filter disks.
iperEspresso is a single-serve capsule system for preparing espresso coffee and espresso-based drinks, developed and patented by Illy.
After verifying that the water container is installed properly, the astronaut inserts the coffee capsule into an opening on the top surface of the machine, then they close the small door and select the drink size.
History The company began in 1846 manufacturing precision scales and mainly industrial balances, in Wald, now a district of Solingen in North Rhine-Westphalia.
In October 2024, they launched a limited-edition version of the Linea Micra in collaboration with Porsche, called the La Marzocco X Porsche, incorporating elements of Porsche's automotive design.
This delivers the hot water to a cone-shaped coffee grind holder, which drips into a carafe at 92 to 96 °C (198 to 205 °F), considered an optimal temperature range.
The key concepts are: Extraction Also known as "solubles yield" – what percentage (by weight) of the grounds are dissolved in the water.
To allow more immediate packaging, pressurized canisters or foil-lined bags with pressure-relief valves can be used.
Kenwood designs, produces and sells kitchen appliances including stand mixers, blenders, food processors, fridge freezers, kettles and toasters.
FAEMA (Italian acronym: Fabbrica Apparecchiature Elettromeccaniche e Affini) primarily engaged in the production of espresso machines, was founded in 1945 by Carlo Ernesto Valente, in Milan, Italy.
A Consumer Reports review determined that the coffee taste is high-quality, yet the process of brewing it is complex and does not justify its high-ticket price.
The original sugar holders were box-like, they evolved into a shape of a bowl with a close-fitting lid (with the shape similar to the modern designs), later were made of glass or had a glass insert.
White coffee In many English-speaking countries, "white coffee" is used to refer to regular black coffee that has had milk, cream, or some other "whitener" added to it.
Discs containing milk use UHT milk, not powdered milk, but are no longer available in the United States.
Construction The early tongs were scissor-like, occasionally in fancy shapes like storks with long beaks or puppets grabbing the sugar with their hands.
The espresso machines are produced by Eugster/Frismag in Romanshorn, which also manufactures machines for other brands such as Siemens, Bosch and AEG.
Additional companies that manufactured coffee vending machines in 1947 in the United States include the Manning & Lewis company, Knapway Devices and the Bert Mills Corporation.
The trademark was applied unrelated to their function or design by four different manufacturers in Italy (Brevetti Robbiati), Austria (Stella - Desider Josef Stern was the trademark holder), Hungary (Szigony M.V.), United Kingdom ( A.&M.G.
Boiling Boiling, decoction or maceration, was the main method used for brewing coffee until the 1930s and is still used in some European and Middle Eastern countries.
This assessment may be due in part to the lesser frequency of proper barista training by many coffee vendors.
Especially in East Asia disposable single serve drip coffee bags are common way to prepare drip coffee.
Types Drip coffeemaker The first non-electric drip coffee maker, using notebook paper as the precursor to the paper coffee filter, was developed by German entrepreneur Melitta Bentz in 1908.
After brewing, the plunger is depressed, holding down the coffee grounds while the coffee is served.
In 2019, they released the AeroPress Go, a travel-sized model with a reduced capacity, smaller accessories which assemble inside of a plastic mug with a lid.
Early V1 machines have a Rancilio logo printed in black on the front of the case; later models have a thick plastic badge attached to the case in the same location.
This technique produces a thin homogeneous coating; however, if smoothness is not required, the ceramic mixture is painted directly with a brush.
This new entity, focused on the professional coffee segment, is 61.4% controlled by De'Longhi SpA, 26.6% controlled by De'Longhi Industrial S.A, and 12% controlled by the remaining shareholders of La Marzocco.
As the film progresses, the makers add a fifth personality, Los Angeles-based Charles Babinski, who decides to compete.
This is used to preserve the aroma of the coffee while it drips into the tank, which can take up to 10 minutes or more.
Some modern machines prepare various coffee styles such as mochas and lattes and use ground drip coffee, and some fresh-grind the coffee to order using a grinder in the machine.
The European patent took force in a number of Contracting States of the European Patent Convention, including Belgium.
Styles The zarf was often made from metal, with silver, gold, copper, and brass being the most common materials used.
A macchiato may be 'traditional' or 'topped up' (extra milk added) depending on strength preferences.
The Tassimo Hot Beverage System is a consumer single-serve coffee system that prepares one-cup servings of espresso, regular coffee, tea, hot chocolate and various other coffee drinks, notably those including milk such as latte or cappuccino.
The component was shipped free of charge, including instructions to allow customers to insert the new component themselves.
He has since become the first US Barista to win the World Barista Championship in London, England, in 2010.
Duez, Cyril; Ybert, Christophe [at Wikidata]; Clanet, Christophe; Bocquet, Lydéric [in French] (2010-02-26) [2009-10-17].
The company also introduced the prototype of its Strada AV machine, which was subsequently launched in 2016.
Walküre recommended to use coffea arabica, and either 16 g for the first two cups and 6 g for each further cup, or 8–10 g per cup in general.
Other materials, including enameled metal, plastic, or steel, are preferred, when reduced weight or resistance to breakage is at a premium, such as for camping.
History and trading The company was founded by the De'Longhi family in 1902 as a small industrial parts manufacturing workshop.
Coffee may be intentionally over-extracted to achieve increased strength while reducing the amount of ground coffee required.
Principally, dairy products mute delicate aromas and thicken mouthfeel (particularly when frothed), while sweeteners mask astringency and bitterness.
While varying in price, colour, availability of filter/display they are functionally equivalent in that each maker will produce the same beverage from the same t-disc.
Melitta USA is responsible for the sales and marketing of Melitta coffee filters, coffee, and non electric coffee systems in the USA.
The championship resumed in 2021, with both in-person events and a new online format, in which competitors create and submit their recipe remotely.
Named after the Yemeni city of Mokha, it was popularized by Italian aluminum vendor Alfonso Bialetti and his son Renato starting from 1933.
Based on the considerations of continuity mentioned above, and incorporating the conservation of energy, he linked the two quantities of pressure and speed.
The hot water hits the underside of the lid, and flows out and over the inner lid of the coffee basket.
It also has a steam wand with automatic temperature probe (for programmable auto-shutoff), and hot water spout.
A French press, also known as a cafetière, cafetière à piston, caffettiera a stantuffo, press pot, coffee press, or coffee plunger, is a coffee brewing device, although it can also be used for other tasks.
The jebena can be described as an 'artifact', as well as a tool, as it represents significant shared cultural experience and status in Ethiopian and Eritrean culture.
History In 1901, Luigi Bezzera devised and patented several improvements to the earliest recognized form of steam-powered espresso machine, invented by Angelo Moriondo in 1884.
Despite the joking nature of its origins, or perhaps because of it, the protocol has remained as a minor presence online.
Usually stainless steel will be used for the inner wall while outer wall can be stainless steel, plastic, or even embedded with other materials.
This implementation has the two chambers arranged side by side on a balance-like device, with a counterweight attached to the heated chamber.
In 2015 Lavazza introduced the A Modo Mio Fantasia coffee machine designed together with Electrolux.
White coffee is usually purchased pre-ground due to the fact that the beans are harder than regular coffee, making them difficult to grind, even using a commercial grinder.
The combination of the thermosiphon and the mass of brass in the E61 group head, in excess of 4 kilograms (8.8 lb), gives E61 machines desirable thermal inertia in operation, maintaining a stable brew temperature while pulling shots of espresso in succession.
Only 1 in 400 single-use cups were recycled in 2017, and media coverage encouraged consumers to look for alternatives.
(Its popularity may have been aided in 1965 by its use in the Michael Caine film The Ipcress File.) The device was litigated and further popularized throughout Europe by Melior-Martin, a French company, Household Articles Ltd.
His percolator was one of the earliest coffee brewing devices to use percolation rather than infusion or decoction as its mode of extraction, and he named it accordingly.
Eugster/Frismag manufactures around 20% of all Nestle machines as well as other machines for brands such as Jura, Keurig, Melitta, KitchenAid or Moulinex.
V4 (2013-2016) An internal update, revising the boiler design to make the copper heating element removable and replaceable, similar to the V1 Silvia.
Other reviews mention that the Moccamaster's plastic parts are not durable, while other reviews refer to the machine as "the holy grail of coffee makers." References External links Official website Technivorm Cup-One Coffee Maker Review
Consumption Sweden is among the highest coffee-consuming countries globally, with an average consumption of approximately 8.2 kg (18 lb) per capita annually.
Design and qualification Through the safety process, NASA verified that the hardware would meet the necessary requirements and it has certified the system for the flight on the ISS.
Some scuttles and mugs have concentric circles on the bottom, which retain some water thus helping to build lather.
The result is a beverage with a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids than regular drip coffee, giving espresso its characteristic body and intensity.
The name “Capresso” combines “cappuccino” and “espresso.” Company Firsts Capresso is responsible for many industry firsts, including: The first programmable coffeemaker/conical burr grinder combination.
Picture shows the anti-drip groove and pinhole underneath the spout of Melitta coffee pots (protected by D.R.P.
The United States Barista Championship (USBC) is an annual American coffee-brewing competition designed to evaluate baristas on their skills in espresso-based drink preparation and service.
The Verismo 801 was released to the commercial market shortly before it was discontinued, under the Black and White CTS2 brand name.
This process, which controlled both temperature and duration, produced a much more uniform brewing cycle, resulting in a consistent, fresh flavor.
Etymology and inflection The word barista comes from Italian, where it means a "bartender" who typically works behind a counter, serving hot drinks (such as espresso), cold alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, and snacks.
Vietnamese usage also includes related terms such as cà phê kho and colloquial labels likening the filter to a sock (for example, cà phê bít tất).
Because of the hermetically sealed capsule, however, the coffee aroma does not degrade with time like coffee in a pack that has been opened.
Some people pour the hot tea or coffee from the cup into the saucer; the increased surface area of the liquid exposed to the air increases the rate at which it cools, allowing the drinker to consume the beverage quickly after preparation.
The FB/70 coffee machine (FB for Fratelli Bambi) is launched to celebrate La Marzocco's 70th anniversary in 1997.
Valente's group allowed the Faema E61 to become the first espresso machine to use automatic pre-infusion, the first to incorporate an electric pump, and the first to incorporate a thermosiphon for managing the temperature of the group head.
Strength depends instead on grind: finer grinds yield a "shorter" (ristretto) espresso (less liquid, so higher brew ratio, at same yield gives more strength), while coarser grinds yield a "longer" (lungo) espresso, while an intermediate grind yields a "normale" espresso.
Unlike other coffee drinks, an espresso contains three phases: an emulsion of oil droplets, suspended solids, and a layer of gas bubbles or foam.
For the compulsory service, competitors prepare three coffee beverages utilizing the same whole bean coffee provided to them by the competition organizers.
Although the company paused new investments and development in March 2022, it maintained its existing operations, including a production plant in Tatarstan.
Melitta USA's coffee filters are manufactured in Clearwater, Florida, and the company has a coffee roasting operation in Cherry Hill, New Jersey.
History The company was founded by Italian businessman Sergio Zappella and Swiss inventor Arthur Schmed in 1981 as Sergio, Arthur e Compagnia.
History 1940s The first Kenwood product was a toaster invented by Kenneth Wood, which was brought to market in 1947, known as the A100.
They have acted as the main or sole sponsor of numerous cycling teams for many years, but also as co-sponsor.
In 1981, the company's audio and hi-fidelity division, which grew out of Braun's former core business of radios, turntables, and hi-fidelity audio products, was spun off into Braun Electronic GmbH, a legally independent Gillette subsidiary.
Technivorm is a family-owned Dutch manufacturer founded by Gerard-Clement Smit in Amerongen, The Netherlands.
See also Bialetti De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Lelit Rancilio List of Italian companies References External links Official website Philips-Saeco Official website Saeco Professional
12 pod boxes can make between 6 and 12 cups and 30 pod boxes are sufficient for between 15 and 30 cups, depending on the type of beverage.
Some newer models fresh-brew the coffee using hot water and ground coffee beans, and some also grind the coffee to order using coffee grinders installed in the machines, as well as providing various condiments.
In contrast to the institutionally-marketed Lavazza Blue pods, the A Modo Mio pods are sold in supermarkets.
When needed, one can take the brush and brush it against the soap, bringing up a layer of lather; excess water is drained back.
The espresso is always served with a saucer and demitasse spoon, and sometimes with a complimentary wrapped chocolate and a small glass of water.
A sugar bowl is a small bowl designed for holding sugar or sugar cubes, to be served with tea or coffee in the Western tradition, that is an integral part of a tea set.
Once the vapor has forced the hot water out, the counterweight activates a spring-loaded snuffer which smothers the flame and allows the initial chamber to cool down thus lowering pressure (creating a vacuum) and causing the brewed coffee to seep in.
Alcohol consumption during work hours became socially unacceptable, with coffee replacing it as the drink of choice for workers.
By this time, Braun's film-slide projectors incorporated high-quality optics, all-metal construction, and functionalist design, allowing them to compete with higher-end Eastman Kodak and Leitz products on the global market.
Individuals using powdered non-dairy creamer in the ordinary amounts used in a cup of coffee do not face a risk of dust explosion.
At the USBC, competitors must make three courses of beverages within a fifteen-minute time limit and are judged by seven different judges.
In 2001, Italian rival small appliance maker De'Longhi bought the Kenwood company for £45.9 million (about $66.7 million).
District Court for the District of New Mexico, accusing McDonald's of gross negligence for selling coffee that was "unreasonably dangerous" and "defectively manufactured".
Advantages of pods include convenience and speed of preparation and easy cleaning, consistency of taste, and less waste of coffee grounds.
The competition is composed of the winners of the national barista championships, which are operated by the Specialty Coffee Association (SCA) chapters, or an approved, independent, non-profit national body.
In 1957, United States Deputy Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Energy, Charles Duncan Jr., put together a group to buy back the company from the failing owners.
Products Espresso machines Commercial espresso machines All commercial machines are available in 2, 3 except the Linea Classic S (also 1 and 4); the Linea PB, the GB5 and FB80 (also 4); the Strada X (also available in 1 group).
With shorter roasting times, natural sugars are not caramelized within the coffee beans, making the coffee less bitter.
After a period of crisis in the 1970s and 1980s, Bialetti merged with Rondine Italia in 1993 and founded a new company named Bialetti Industrie S.p.A., based in Brescia.
The product was discontinued in August 2014 with the launch of the Keurig 2.0 brewing system, and the 2.0 did not accept the My K-Cup pods.
Modern manual coffee makers sometimes associated with Karlsbad-style coffee makers include Coffee Consulate's intense extraction cup filter RS16 GlasFilter by Steffen Schwarz (2015) and the borosilicate carafe coffee maker "The Pure Over" by glass artist Etai Rahmil (2020).
He launched the distribution of Vittoria vacuum-packed ground coffee in Australian supermarkets, the first retail coffee brand in Australia that was not instant coffee.
But the elite preferred cups with stems, and often covers, in metal, with glass a less common alternative.
Ownership Maas is majority owned by the Miko Group, a Belgian stock exchange listed specialist in coffee service.
Metal zarfs were sometimes filigreed, decorated with chasing, niello, engraving, or set with precious stones.
The machine is smaller in size than the Verismo 801, due to the concerns of Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz that the height of the Verismo 801 prevented baristas from interacting with customers.
The two independent boilers separated coffee extraction from steam production thus, together with the saturated groups, ensured thermal stability and improved coffee quality in the cup since water now flowed through independent circuits.
Otherwise, the host/waiter will continue to serve another few centilitres at a time until the guest indicates he has had enough.
In 2005, during the company's centenary, the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA) included the 1974 La Pavoni Professional model in its “Architecture and Design: Inaugural Installation” exhibition, along with Peter Schlumbohm’s Chemex coffeemaker.
The specialty Vietnamese weasel coffee, which is made by collecting coffee beans eaten by wild civets, is sold at US$500 per kilogram.
Standard." It is open to all coffee roasters and machine manufacturers, making it the self-acclaimed "only open system available to the sector for espresso coffee prepared with paper pods".
Coffeehouse Coffeehouse culture began in the Arab world, and eventually spread to other areas of the world and blended with the local culture.
History In 1976 Arthur Eugster started manufacturing electric home appliances such as egg cookers and waffle irons.
Six years later, in 1958, the Carnation Company developed a product that easily dissolved in hot liquid because it replaced most of the milk fat with vegetable oil, and reduced the milk protein.
There are no hard limitations on the recipes (coffee to water ratio), which may be varied by the competitor.
During the open service, the competitor typically explains the origin of the coffee, the brewing method, and tasting notes while brewing at least three beverages, one for each of the three sensory judges.
"System Büttner" coffee makers (German: Büttner-Kaffeemaschine) have been a type of manual and semi-automatic coffee makers combining coffee steeping (infusion, full immersion) with drip-filtering (percolation).
The first coffee press, which may have been made in France, was the modern coffee press in its rudimentary form – a metal or cheesecloth screen fitted to a rod that users would press into a pot of hot water and coffee grounds.
From 1997, La Pavoni began introducing more plastic parts into the machines, including a plastic boiler cap and Teflon piston.
This sugar was being supplied by large plantations run by the British in the Caribbean, by enslaved or indentured people.
At the end of 2015, the company's income statement registered a total revenue of €172.4 million, 6.9% more than 2014 (€161.2 million).
(Though most beers and soft drinks are charged with carbon dioxide, nitrogen is occasionally used in darker stouts, resulting in a smoother finish.) Nitro cold brew is typically served chilled but without ice, which would damage the foamy top.
In December 2021 Keurig announced it was discontinuing the platform and offered refunds for the machines to purchasers.
For this reason, coffee is commonly removed from the brewing chamber of a French press after extraction has occurred.
Yield is inversely proportional to grind size; a smaller grain size produces more surface area and faster extraction.
Products Kenwood's products include the following categories: Kitchen machines Food and drink preparation (Food processors, blenders, juicers) Breakfast (Kettles, toasters, coffee makers) References External links Official website Ken Wood in Making the Modern World Kenwood UK website
In 1997, Rancilio created a home kitchen-sized espresso machine based on their commercial offerings.
While the beans are being roasted in preparation to be put in the jebena, popcorn or other small snacks are passed around.
When the coffee boils up through the neck it is poured in and out of another container to cool it, and then is put back into the jebena until it happens again.
It is often made with the purpose of conducting a business deal and welcoming someone into one's home for the first time, and frequently served at weddings and on important occasions.
Another variation using a basket to hold the coffee grounds is called "American press", where the hot water is filled in first and then the basket is slowly pushed down (and sometimes also pulled up again) through the water column.
This design is still used today in lower-cost consumer machines, as it does not need to contain moving parts.
Separation Coffee in all these forms is made with roasted and ground coffee and hot water, the used grounds either remaining behind or being filtered out of the cup or jug after the main soluble compounds have been extracted.
It may also refer to the coffee served in such a cup, though that usage had disappeared in France by the early 20th century.
This type of coffee maker is also known as vac pot, siphon or syphon coffee maker, and was invented by Johann Nörrenberg in 1827.
A brewing temperature of 192 °F (89 °C) is the default setting, with some models permitting users to adjust the temperature downward by five degrees.
Current pod technology produces a high volume of crema, the foam created at the top of the cup, and a taste that many consumers find comparable with what is available in current espresso bars.
V6 (2020-present) A minor update: the steam wand was slightly streamlined, eliminating the small lip in V3 and later models, making the wand easier to wipe down.
Coffee machines were the most popular product, constituting 40 percent of sales in Germany and 30 percent in the United States.
The top 15 competitors advance to a second (semi-finals) round, plus the addition of a wildcard placing.
In the early 1990s additional production facilities were established in Switzerland, and in 1994 their first fully automatic coffee machine was launched.
In 2001, La Marzocco began an eight-year sponsorship of the World Barista Championship, serving as the official espresso machine supplier from 2001 to 2008.
It is also depicted in the watermark used as a security feature on several Khuzestanian monetary banknotes.
Prior to the acquisition of the majority share in 2021, the company was owned by the Dutch Private Equity firm Nimbus.
The sublimation point of caffeine is 352 °F (178 °C), about one hundred degrees lower than the typical very dark roast.
A similar concept using phase change materials, but integrated into the walls and bottom of a cup, had been invented by the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics in 2009.
See also Coffee cup sleeve Cup holder Podstakannik References External links The dictionary definition of zarf at Wiktionary
The target market at that time was still office use, and Keurig hoped to capture some of Starbucks' market.
Dictionary.com attributes the origin to ex- being a more common way that words start in English, making pronunciation easier, and several sources speculate an association between the drink and the word "express" may have contributed to its uptake.
Public coffee vending machines typically require payment, functioning as coin-operated machines, and some also accept bills and credit cards.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT: We are now, in 2012, correcting an error we made in the year 1999, when we failed to include one winner's name.
Local coffee manufacturers now mix instant coffee powder with non-dairy creamer or whitener and sugar, and market the 3-in-1 mixture as white coffee as well.
To some extent the tea will continue to steep even after the plunger is depressed, which may cause the tea remaining in the press to become bitter.
The pour-over coffee preparation method typically starts by pouring a small amount of hot water over the coffee grounds and allow it to sit for about 30 seconds before continuing the pouring.
History Cups have been used since the Stone Age and have been found at archeological sites throughout the world.
When one visits an Eritrean house regardless of whether they are served with food or not, they are always served with hot tea.
On June 26, 2020, a Bunn plant in Springfield, Illinois, became the scene of a workplace shooting in which an employee fatally shot three coworkers before fleeing and committing suicide at another location.
Rancilio made an attempt at a super-automatic machine, the Classe 12, and used cafes in Borders bookstores as a test market.
This is reflected in language; when people say "meet for coffee," they primarily mean meet to socialize or talk.
Coffee (filter) disks or ground coffee filter rings are a ring-type variant of coffee bags made of coffee filter paper containing ground roast coffee for use in coffee percolators, which otherwise use permanent filters made out of metal or porcelain.
See also Easy Serving Espresso Pod Flavia Beverage Systems Tea culture § Germany Utah teapot, a 3D graphics computer model of a modern Melitta teapot used in graphics research and testing References Further reading Oesterreich, Hans-Günther [in German] (1958).
Once the pressure in the lower vessel exceeds atmospheric pressure, the remaining water is pushed up through the siphon tube (C) into the upper vessel (D), where it remains, so long as the pressure difference between the upper and lower vessels is sufficient to support it, about 1.5 kPa (0.015 atm).
A dallah is typically richly ornamented, usually engraved with geometric patterns, stylized plants and flowers, love scenes from Persian Gulfic poetry, or set with other decorations, including semi-precious gemstones and ivory.
As the Silvia evolved, online communities began to assign informal version control numbers to denote changes in features relative to production date.
In Australia, Woolworths and Gloria Jeans promote and make their own capsules exclusively for the system, with the latter also selling Gloria Jeans branded machines.
The case concerned competition in the instant coffee market, including Vittoria’s 400 g freeze-dried product.
Eden-Marie Abramowicz, Charlie Habegger, Truman Severson and Ryan Redden obsess over every detail when it comes to extracting the perfect cup of coffee.
Heat transfer through the bottom of the cup is small relative to heat lost through the top of the cup.
(While this is not considered a separate version, the change did make a significant improvement in the Silvia's thermal management and brew quality.) V3 (2008-2013) In mid-2008, Rancilio made another significant improvement to the Silvia design, completing the basis for all subsequent models.
As with other processed food products, low-calorie and low-fat versions are available for non-dairy creamers.
The preparation of other beverages, particularly milk-based drinks such as cappuccinos and caffè lattes, but also non-espresso coffee such as drip or press pot, requires additional work and skill for effective frothing, pouring, and latte art.
In 1965, the company launched its first slicer, a highly popular product in Germany where sausage (wurst) and cheese are consumed as staples.
Other common ingredients include solidified corn syrup and other sweeteners or flavorings (such as French vanilla, hazelnut, and Irish cream); as well as sodium caseinate, a milk protein derivative (from casein) that does not contain lactose.
The machine includes pre-set programs for latte, cappuccino, espresso, black coffee and white coffee although it can be configured with the Thermoplan Service Master Card.
Arabic coffee has a prominent place in traditional Arab holidays and special events such as Ramadan and Eid.
A zarf (plural: zarfs, zarves; Turkish: zarflar; Arabic: zuruuf) is a cup holder, usually of ornamented metal, for a coffee cup without a handle (demitasse or fincan).
He rode in the 1997 Tour de France and Giro d'Italia 2000 Teams Source: Results Source: 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 - Le Tour de France 1999 2000 - Giro d'Italia 51º in General Classification Ronde van Italië, (Giro d'Italia), Italy == References ==
The Java Jacket first appeared at the Seattle Coffeefest in 1995 and Sorensen and his wife Colleen were overwhelmed with requests and orders to fill.
Turkish coffee (aka Arabic coffee, etc.), a very early method of making coffee, is used in the Middle East, North Africa, East Africa, Turkey, Greece, the Balkans, and Russia.
References External links Cafetière à Piston Presse Française – Melior The dictionary definition of French press at Wiktionary
More recent varieties launched in selected European markets include cappuccino, café choco and espresso.
Contrary to the terrestrial machines, it is not necessary to have a collection tank considering that there is very limited waste water.
It has become an iconic design, displayed in modern industrial art and design museums including the Wolfsonian-FIU, the Cooper–Hewitt, National Design Museum, the Design Museum, the London Science Museum, The Smithsonian and the Museum of Modern Art.
In early 2016 the German city of Hamburg banned coffee capsules from state-run buildings on environmental grounds.
Animal welfare Growing numbers of intensive civet "farms" have been established and are operated in Southeast Asia, confining tens of thousands of animals to live in battery cages and be force-fed.
It has been proposed to use spent coffee grounds to feed ruminants, pigs, chickens and rabbits, but the high lignin content makes this an undesirable use.
Travel mug versions exist, which are made of tough plastic instead of the more common glass, and have a sealed lid with a closable drinking hole.
The use of a milk derivative prompts some individuals and organizations – such as vegans and Jewish dietary law authorities – to classify the product as "dairy" rather than nondairy.
References External links Barista at IMDb Barista at Rotten Tomatoes Barista at Metacritic Barista on X
In south India the use of a two part cylindrical, stainless steel filter is common in the production of Indian filter coffee.
It was named after its manufacturer, Gottlob Widmann, although some early machines were delivered as "FK-1" (for filter coffee machine).
The company produces a large variety of household appliances such as coffee makers, toasters, blenders, kettles, waffle makers, egg cookers, hand mixers, food processors, etc.
King Charles XII, during his stay in the Ottoman Empire in the early 18th century, developed a taste for coffee and introduced Turkish coffee-making practices upon his return, contributing to its spread in Sweden.
Competitors are mandated to bring their own brewing equipment so long as it meets the criteria of being a manual device.
The Büttner extraction method was boldly marketed claiming to be the world's best moka and coffee filter ("Der beste Mokka- und Kaffeefilter der Welt").
The brand was owned by Mars Drinks, a division of Mars, Incorporated until October 1, 2018, when Lavazza purchased Mars's coffee units.
La Marzocco, founded in 1927 in Florence by Giuseppe and Bruno Bambi, is an Italian company specializing in high-end espresso machines.
Cafés may have a standardized shot (size and length), such as "triple ristretto", only varying the number of shots in espresso-based drinks such as caffè latte, but not changing the extraction.
See also Coffee service Easy Serving Espresso Pod Caffitaly K-Cup T-Discs Melitta Senseo References External links Flavia official Canadian and Mexican site Flavia official United States site
La Marzocco International In 1978, after visiting the La Marzocco factory in Florence, Kent Bakke and his partners from Hibble & Hyde’s café in Pioneer Square, Seattle were authorized by the Bambi family to begin importing La Marzocco machines to the United States.
In the United States of America, where the product is manufactured by Nestlé in Glendale, Arizona, the product is available in liquid, liquid concentrate and powdered forms.
Organization The WBC is operated by World Coffee Events (WCE), and is one of seven World Coffee Championships which was established by the Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) and the Speciality Coffee Association of Europe (SCAE) to run a portfolio of international coffee events.
Critics such as Carl Linnaeus warned of its health effects, advocating for herbal alternatives, while economic concerns, including the negative balance of trade caused by the importing of exotic 'luxuries' including coffee, led to government bans.
Wooden zarfs, of which very few remain, were favored because of the natural aroma of the wood from which they were fashioned.
The machine also featured a flush cycle (60 ml) to clean the hydraulic circuit at the end of supply.
An extension, HTCPCP-TEA, was published as RFC 7168 on 1 April 2014 to support brewing teas, also as an April Fools' Day RFC in error 418.
As the international demand for kopi luwak increased, some producers turned to caged production methods to increase yields.
Machines that purvey hot and iced coffee are common in Japan, and many of them are placed in street locations.
In 2009, Douwe Egberts introduced a conceptual coffee vending machine named BeMoved, which has touch screens with drag and drop features to select ingredients and interactive features such as the ability to access news, weather information and stock prices as the coffee is prepared.
Bunn-O-Matic Corporation is an American manufacturer of dispensed beverage equipment (including coffee and tea) headquartered in Springfield, Illinois, with a plant in Creston, Iowa.
In the boulevards, lined with palms and trees, there are many Italian style bars, restaurants and cafes, serving cappuccinos and lattes, as well as gelato parlours.
Status 418 is also sometimes returned by servers when blocking a request, instead of the more appropriate 403 Forbidden, or 404 Not Found.
By 1919, he had established his own metal and machine workshop in Crusinallo (in his native Piedmont) to make aluminium products: this was the foundation of the Bialetti company.
The Muslims are concentrated in the eastern and western lowlands,& highlands whereas the Christians mainly inhabit the highlands.
The beverages include coffees, teas, hot chocolates and cocoas, dairy-based beverages, lemonades, cider, and fruit-based drinks.
Coffee extraction occurs when hot water is poured over coffee grounds, causing desirable compounds such as caffeine, carbohydrates, lipids, melanoidins and acids to be extracted from the grounds.
In 1958 the brothers began roasting small amounts of premium Arabica coffee at their food importing premises in the Sydney's suburb of Haymarket, initially supplying Sydney's first Italian cafés.
Other brewing methods based on percolation followed, and this early naming convention can cause confusion with other percolation methods.
The saucer is useful for protecting surfaces from possible damage due to the heat of a cup, and to catch overflow, splashes, and drips from the cup, thus protecting both table linen and the user sitting in a free-standing chair who holds both cup and saucer.
In 1936, the widely recognized cone-shaped filter paper that fit inside the tapered filter top was introduced.
The aromatic oils in coffee are released at 96 °C (205 °F), which is just below boiling, while the bitter acids are released when the water has reached boiling point.
Prior to this machine, coffee was primarily made in a percolator, which combined the ground coffee and water together throughout the brewing process.
The impact of transient temperature – the temperature of the final coffee beverage after brewed is finished – does not matter as much as brewing temperature; briefly heating coffee does not destroy its taste.
The cultural significance of espresso extends beyond its consumption, playing a central role in coffee shop culture and the third-wave coffee movement, which emphasizes artisanal production and high-quality beans.
Smaller roasters and micro-roasteries, specialising in speciality coffee, account for the remaining market share.
Advantages Enjoying coffee made from freshly roasted beans is one of the major driving factors in the popularity of home roasting.
In the 2019 financial year, the group's turnover increased by 10 percent to almost 1.7 billion euros.
Breville markets its products worldwide using its namesake Breville brand, except in Europe, where the Sage brand is used.
In Italy, Giordano Robbiati applied a small yellow sticker bearing the Atomic trademark on a small copper and aluminium moka pot.
Gibraltar or cortado Some shops serve a cortado in a 4-ounce Libbey Gibraltar glass, calling the drink a Gibraltar.
Since the density of water vapor is approximately 1⁄2000 that of liquid water, the mixture of air and water vapor in the lower vessel quickly expands as more liquid is boiled to vapor, increasing the pressure in the lower vessel.
Housewares International Limited The company was founded in 1957 as Housewares International Limited, and imported homeware products.
A cup is a small container used to hold liquids for drinking, typically with a flattened hemispherical shape and an open "mouth", and often with a capacity of about 6–16 US fluid ounces (177–473 ml).
Furthermore, it hosts a set of microswitches that prevent the leakage of hot water under high pressure in case of unsuccessful or improper closure of the brewer itself.
Past winners See also World Butchers Challenge References External links World Barista Championship official site
The company is part of American multinational consumer goods company Procter & Gamble and known for its design aesthetic from the 1960s through the 1980s.
Coffee makers that use pressure to force water through ground coffee are called espresso makers, and they produce espresso coffee.
The original shape appears to have been a cylindrical filter with two squarish handles combined with a ball-shaped pot.
In 1982, the Gillette Group moved to integrate Braun with the parent company by taking full control over its operations.
Gallery References External links Robbiati's drawing for Patent 2,549,132 (filed June 26, 1947) Detailed photos and information on most models of Atomic
The company sells a coffee pod brewer system similar to Keurig K-Cups, and makes various home and domestic coffee makers under the Speed Brew and Heat N' Brew families.
In 2013, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) investigators found wild-caught civets on farms in Indonesia and the Philippines.
Looking for ways to return to profitability, Gillette considered the disposal of some of Braun's less profitable divisions, such as kitchen appliances and thermometers, but abandoned the idea a few months later when no buyers were found.
Once the beans are roasted each participant is given an opportunity to sample the aromatic smoke by wafting it towards them.
While free of sediments, such coffee is lacking in some of coffee's oils and essences; they have been trapped in the paper filter.
Cafetière A cafetière (coffee plunger, French press in US English) requires coffee of a coarser grind than does a drip-brew coffee filter, as finer grounds will seep through the press filter and into the drink.
This can be prepared well in advance as it maintains its character when stored cold better than as a hot beverage.
An all-in-one French press consists of a heating element that can receive its power from a 12-volt power source.
They are normally placed on a metal tray, and this metal tray is used to serve the coffee to participants in the bunna.
The company received help on manufacturing costs from Sherrill and raised money on Kickstarter in 2011.
Products FLAVIA claims its patented technology brews drinks in a single-serve "Fresh Pack," which means that the pack is the actual brewing chamber.
In 2021, Gloucestershire-based football club Forest Green Rovers trialed a kit made from 35% used coffee grounds combined with recycled plastic.
History Early mugs Though today mugs are associated with hot drinks, milk and soft drinks, many early mugs appear to have been mostly used for beer or other alcoholic drinks, and were often larger than modern mugs.
Increasing or decreasing extraction yield Yields depend primarily on temperature, brew time, and grind size, and brewing method.
Variations Several different systems exist: Coffee pods or pads are pre-packaged ground coffee beans in their own filter.
(There is no evidence that Rancilio uses or acknowledges these version numbers; they have, however, been employed in peer-reviewed scientific literature.) The initial release of the Silvia subsequently became known as V1.
Heeding the public outcry, Node.js, Go, Python's Requests, and ASP.NET's HttpAbstractions library decided against removing 418 "I'm a teapot" from their respective projects.
In either system, only the water is ever in direct contact with the heating element, never brewing or brewed coffee.
produced its own British-manufactured coffee makers "standard" and "Cappucino" around 1955–1965 that also bore the trademark "Atomic".
Design Museum, London 2009 Bernd Polster: Kronberg Meets Cupertino: What Braun and Apple really have in common.
Different filter shapes and sizes exist, most notable the (paper) coffee filter systems introduced by Melitta (1908, 1932, 1936, 1965), Chemex (1941) and Hario (2004).
The peculiar method employed by the barista using the Gaggia machine subsequently became known as the ‘Fellini Move’ or ‘Fellini Manoeuvre’, used to induce pre-infusion or to introduce more volume into a shot than a single ‘pull’ from the machine would otherwise allow.
Current machines Tassimo offers five models of single-cup coffee maker compatible with the "home-use" T-discs.
A dallah can be made of brass, steel, silver, or luxury metals such as 24-karat gold for special occasions or use by royalty.
Gaggia entered the superautomatic espresso machine market in 1999 with its ‘Synchrony Digital’ model.
ISSpresso was the first espresso coffee machine designed for use in space, produced for the International Space Station by Argotec and Lavazza in a public-private partnership with the Italian Space Agency (ASI).
It is similar in principle to the competing Nespresso and Tassimo capsule systems, in which a sealed capsule containing a premeasured amount of coffee is inserted into the machine, through which hot water is forced at high pressure into a coffee cup.
A new model of the Senseo machine, the Senseo New Generation, was launched in selected markets in 2007.
(5 pages) Keramische Rundschau retro|bib - Seite aus Kochschule und Ratgeber für Familie & Haus: Unknown - Unknown "Walküre".
In English, the method is called "net-filter coffee"; the spoon-shaped cloth filter has been compared to a net used to catch fish in aquarium shops.
However, pod manufacturers use only 0.2 grams of paper fiber in a typical 44 mm pod, and this fiber is easily degradable, so the main waste is the pouch packaging film.
There are several manual drip-brewing devices on the market, offering more control over brewing parameters than automatic machines, and which incorporate stopper valves and other innovations that offer greater control over steeping time and the proportion of coffee to water.
Coffee filters commonly used in South Indian households are a stainless steel version but without insulation.
While the cup design might not seem to have anything to do with the taste of the beverage, connoisseurs say it makes a difference.
(Braunschweig, Germany) and Columbus (Germany)) as part of larger coffee machines produced by the porcelain manufacturer Bauscher (Weiden, Germany) for heavy-duty semi-continuous batch use in restaurants and canteens.
Machines iperEspresso capsules require special espresso machines, which are manufactured by Francis Francis (a subsidiary of Illy), Gaggia (Saeco), and Cuisinart (Conair).
The World Barista Championship (WBC) is an annual barista competition operated by World Coffee Events for the title of World Barista Champion.
In May 2009, the company board agreed to a purchase offer from Dutch manufacturer Philips, owner of the Senseo coffee system, subject to shareholder and bank approval.
Bunn is the American distributor of the Tiger Super Automatic Espresso Machine, made by Thermoplan AG.
The tube delivers the liquid coffee to the bottom of the carafe, so that weaker coffee (what is dripped through the beans at the end) is distributed evenly with the stronger coffee (that is pumped through the coffee first).
Demitasse cups are small because they usually serve espresso, which is a stronger, more concentrated coffee, best served in smaller portions.
Cups do not feature strongly in the earliest pottery found in most areas; the wares were thick and heavy, as were the carved stone vessels found in several early cultures.
Danesi of Italy meanwhile has associated themselves with Caffitaly system brewing machines, selling in the USA through Boston King Coffee.
Despite the wide popularity of home roasting, Burns felt that it would soon disappear because of the great strides made in commercial roasting in the 1860s and 1870s, including the benefits of the economies of scale.
The national barista competitions are each organized by their respective national coffee organizations.
They worked on the principle of French drip coffee pots, but used a paper filter and allowed to pour the whole amount of water at once instead of having to pour several times.
Another early commercial powdered creamer was "Pream", first marketed in 1952 and made from dehydrated cream and sugar.
See also Coffeemaker List of coffee drinks Porcelain museum of Klášterec nad Ohří Notes References Further reading Meyer, Hans (Easter 1927).
Four variants exist in home machines, depending on how brew water and steam are boiled; in discussion these are generally known by acronyms.
Capresso markets high-end coffeemakers, espresso machines, grinders, electric water kettles, and frothers.
Operation Coffee is brewed by placing coarsely ground coffee in the empty beaker and adding hot water, 93–96 °C (199–205 °F), in proportions of about 30 g (1 oz) of coffee grounds to 500 ml (17 US fl oz) of water, more or less to taste.
In the Faema E61, operation was mechanized, using an on-off switch to control an electric pump that pressurized water to 9 bars (900 kPa).
In 2016, significant changes were made to the competition format: Grinders were now provided by the competition's partner (Mahlkönig), new models of espresso machines were introduced, and the cappuccino was replaced by a "milk drink" component.
Rancilio also offered a new color option, "Silva Black," for an additional fee, with a matte case to match the new black grouphead cover.
Institutions that provide drinking water, such as offices and hospitals, may also use disposable cups for sanitary reasons.
Comparison of systems The plastic and metal coffee capsules typically are used in a non-removable receptacle on the brewing device.
The company spent 1.6 million Swiss francs (US$1.3 million; €980,000) persuading Brazil's national soccer team to choose Weggis for its training camp before the 2006 World Cup.
Those who rely on this classification will either not consume the product (e.g., vegans) or will not use or consume it in conjunction with any meat products (e.g., observant Jews).
Hoffmann praised its build quality, overall value, and compact design (the smallest footprint among those tested), noting that the machine did not compromise on user interface or experience despite packing the same features into a smaller space.
The Specialty Coffee Association includes several Moccamaster models in its Certified Home Brewer Program.
Rancilio entered the home espresso market in 1989 with the release of its Miss Rancilio line, featuring the Audrey espresso machine and the Rocky grinder with distinctively curved white plastic casings.
With over 600,000 vending machines in operation worldwide it was considered one of the largest companies in the industry.
Also, these tongs still can be used to serve small candy, string beans, slices of cucumber, celery sticks.
Carter Chambers (Morgan Freeman) explains how civets defecate kopi luwak coffee beans, and that the gastric juices of the defecated beans give kopi luwak its unique aroma.
Further reducing the heat lost through the bottom of the cup has little effect on the cooling rate of the beverage.
Devices Melody series The first series of 2006 consisted of the models KP2000 (Black/Silver), KP2006 (Black/Silver/Red) and KP2002 (Black/Silver/White), all of them operating in a standard pressure of 14 bar.
A higher concentration of solubles is associated with a stronger beverage, and lower concentration with a weaker, more "watery", beverage.
In 2015, the competition was the subject of the documentary Barista, which followed competitors in the 2013 USBC.
In food service businesses, pods and capsules used with automatic brewing can help to provide consistency of product strength and flavor for customers.
Survivals in ancient Greek pottery are numerous, and often brilliantly painted, but all probably were made also in silver, where survivals are extremely rare, as grave robbers did not bother with pottery.
In 1950, Melvin Morse and Dick Borne of Presto Foods developed "Mocha Mix Coffee Creamer", which was the first commercial non-dairy creamer and the first product with the term “coffee creamer” in the name.
The Maas machines are distinguished by their universal design - black and silver, glass fronted machines all made to the same dimensions.
"The Joy of Coffee: The Essential Guide to Buying, Brewing, and Enjoying." Houghton Mifflin Cookbooks.
In 1950, Rancilio released a horizontal boiler machine, the Invicta Horizzontal, showing evidence of the postwar shift toward spare, modern styling.
In addition, the espresso method of extraction yielded higher antioxidant activity than other brewing methods.
There are a number of companies that manufacture coffee sleeves; the top four companies by volume of coffee sleeves sold in the U.S.
Eventually, licenses for pod technology were granted to an Italian firm and other developers, who created specific standards for proprietary technologies.
Modern espresso, using hot water under pressure, as pioneered by Gaggia in the 1940s, was originally called crema caffè (lit.
Four major companies dominate the Swedish coffee market: Gevalia, owned by JDE Peet's, based in Gävle, holds around 40% of the market share.
Detractors have argued that McDonald's refusal to offer more than an $800 settlement for the $10,500 in medical bills indicated that the suit was meritless and highlighted the fact that Liebeck spilled the coffee on herself rather than any wrongdoing on the company's part.
In 2017, Philips sold the Saeco Professional division (also with the Gaggia brand) to N&W Global Vending SpA, an Italian Bergamo based company leader in vending machines for drinks and snacks, born in 2000 from the integration of Necta and Wittenberg and controlled by a US fund, Lone Star.
Dry granular products do not need to be refrigerated and can be used and stored in locations which do not have a refrigerator.
The final round comprises the top scoring six baristas from the semi-finals round and takes place on the last day of the competition.
Some venues keep water and/or brewed coffee warm over a charcoal stove or similar heat source during service.
The flight model was subjected to the processes of qualification and certified by NASA for use aboard the International Space Station.
Lastly, once the desired brewing time is complete the AeroPress is either turned right-side-up and plunged normally or held at an angle and plunged horizontally.
1960s–1970s) were devices combining steeping (immersion) with drip-filtering (percolation), a method sometimes also called percolative immersion, immersion pour-over, immersion drip brew, hybrid brewing, steeped bloom or steep & release.
Rancilio also changed the design of the overpressure valve (OPV) which regulates pressure between the pump and the grouphead.
Melitta () is a German company selling coffee, paper coffee filters, and coffee makers, part of the Melitta Group, which has branches in other countries.
Ivory was carved in the same way as wood; however, its greater value meant that more care was needed to avoid mistakes.
The front cover gives the title as "Böhmisches Porzellan und Steinzeug" (Bohemian porcelain and stoneware), the frontispiece as "Böhmisches Porzellan und Steingut".) Ciupka, Paul (1931).
The A Modo Mio range is aimed at domestic use and supports the "Lavazza Blue" range of capsules designed for the business target.
Maintenance Moka pots require periodic replacement of the rubber seal, a scouring of its removable filter, and a check that the safety release valve is not blocked.
More recent units can store fresh milk in a separate internal container, instead of relying on powder.
Also, in the early 1980s, Braun sold its photographic and slide projector division to Robert Bosch GmbH.
Automated version In 2022, the Japanese Tiger Corporation released an automated coffee-maker based on the vacuum coffee maker principle, which was marketed as the Siphonysta.
In principle, any manual technique as distinct from "espresso" type extraction is permitted, including methods that use pumping or pressurized extraction so long as it is manually powered.
Wierzbicka suggests that this situation is due to a slightly different functionality: the traditional cups are designed for drinking while sitting down at the table, while the mug is supposed to be used anywhere.
Levant In the Levant, Arabic coffee is similar to Turkish coffee, but is typically spiced with cardamom.
(which was actually made for the movie from a Krups coffee grinder) References Further reading Shrum, Rebecca K.
Another variant was the Arndt'sche Sturzmaschine (not to be confused with the Arndt'sche Caffee-Aufgussmaschine).
In the compulsory service, competitors' coffees are evaluated on a standardized numerical scale based on several sensory criteria including aroma, flavor, aftertaste, acidity, body, balance, and overall perception.
In 1954, one of the first electric drip brewers, the Wigomat invented by Gottlob Widmann, was patented in Germany.
An Americano only differs from an espresso in strength – it is traditionally diluted after brewing to a strength below 1.5% (also resulting in the removal of crema).
Paper coffee pods can be functionally identical to plastic and metal coffee capsules, if the paper pods are individually sealed in separate bags.
Data from experiments conducted with Space Cups can be used to design better fluid systems used in space, such as toilets, oxygen, air conditioning, and water coolants.
Large "ceremonial" or feasting cups, sometimes called grace cups or "welcome cups", and drinking horns, including ivory, with metal mounts, were important prestige pieces, typically too large to drink from all evening, so passed around or drunk from once.
A coffee cup or pot is placed on the bottom of the stand, and fine to medium-fine ground coffee is spooned into a dry bolsita.
A practice ground in Weggis was turned into a temporary 5,000-seat arena called the "Thermoplan Arena".
Lavazza, Luigi Lavazza SPA, https://www.lavazza.co.uk/en/coffee-secrets/neapolitan-coffee-maker "Upside-down percolation".
An extraction yield of 18% to 22% and a strength of 1.15% to 1.35% is considered typical in North America.
A variation, coffee bags, were developed to provide the convenience of instant coffee but maintain the flavor of brewed coffee.
In 1995 the separate companies merged to form Eugster/Frismag AG and the group's headquarters relocated to Romanshorn.
In this context they are referred to as espresso brew pitchers, and also billed as "small creamers".
Recall On 9 February 2012 about 900,000 in Canada and 835,000 coffee makers the United States were recalled after reports of the brewers spraying hot liquid, coffee grounds or tea leaves onto people.
In 1935, the Braun brand was introduced, and the original incarnation of the logotype with the raised "A" was born.
Bernoulli equation But what happens to the pressure conditions in the flow if you change the flow speed?
In most areas, coffee may be purchased unprocessed, or already roasted, or already roasted and ground.
Some modern machines also provide other hot drinks such as tea, espresso, lattes, cappuccinos, mochas and hot chocolate.
The ducts of the hydraulic circuit are made from steel, not plastic, to support operational loads up to 400 bars (5,800 psi).
When coffee began to be served in cardboard cups in the late 20th century, the zarf became disposable as well.
Erwin Braun, one of Max Braun's sons, took on the sales agency of the LECTRON system product line in 1967.
The coffee vending machine is a vending machine that dispenses hot coffee and other coffee beverages.
The product was named after a commercial hot-air roasting process which was named after the hot Sahara winds called sirocco.
Prevalence Ethiopia Brewing coffee is tied closely to womanhood in Ethiopia and in the Horn of Africa.
Equipment at long-running alley cafes typically includes a cloth filter attached to a metal ring and handle, a kettle for hot water, and a metal, enamel, or earthenware vessel for collecting and holding the brew.
Price and availability Kopi luwak is one of the most expensive coffees in the world, selling for between $220 and $1,100 per kilogram ($100 and $500/lb) in 2010.
Differences in respect to a commercial espresso maker The first noticeable difference concerns the size and weight: 43 × 42 × 36 cm (17 × 16.5 × 14 in) and nearly 20 kg (44 lb).
Format and rules To qualify for the World Brewers Cup, contestants must win their respective national championship organized by affiliated national organizations.
Coffee sleeves allow coffee houses, fast food restaurants, and other vendors to avoid double-cupping, the practice of using two (or more) nested paper cups for a single hot beverage.
Although mainly used for drinking, cups can also be used to store solids for pouring (e.g., sugar, flour, grains, salt).
As a result, rural Swedes often consumed coffee-based or coffee-like beverages up to five times a day, stretching their supplies with local substitutes such as dried chicory, grains mixed with syrup, or a dough made from rye and potatoes.
Subsidiaries Capresso - since 2008 References External links Jura Elektroapparate AG JURAworld of Coffee, visitor's centre
As with the serving of tea in China and Japan, the serving of coffee in Turkey was a complex, ritualized process.
Since both percolator and drip brewing were available and popular in the North American market throughout the 1900s, there is little confusion in the United States and Canada between these methods.
Vitaperk LLC, often stylized VitaPerk, is a Michigan based, domestic limited liability company that produces and sells nutraceuticals and dietary supplements in the form of a fortified, non-dairy coffee additive.
The brewed coffee exits the capsule through these rupture holes and flows through a funnel nozzle into the coffee cup.
Cow creamers Creamers in the shape of a cow with an opening or lid on its back for filling, known as cow creamers, originated in Holland, but became very popular in England, first with Dutch imports, then from about 1740 in saltglaze stoneware from the Staffordshire Potteries.
When brewing coffee with the jebena, the youngest woman of the family is always the one to initiate the process.
It was originally constructed out of copper, until 1886, when the material was switched to aluminum.
Yields of under 18% are considered under-extracted, or under-developed – desirable compounds have not been extracted to the fullest.
By 1992, to help create a business plan, he brought in Dragone, then working as director of finance for Chiquita, as a partner.
In Sweden's healthcare sector, a distinct fika provision model is common: workplaces supply coffee, tea and pre-prepared sandwiches for staff, with the associated costs deducted directly from employees' salaries.
The first automatic coffeemaker with a high-gloss metallic body, stainless-steel thermal carafe and stainless-steel lined heating system.
The company did not prolong the sponsorship for 2005, and the team was merged with the Lampre team, forming Lampre–Caffita, sponsored by Caffita.
One can now conclude from this, but also observe in reality, that the flow accelerates at bottlenecks and the streamlines are bundled.
Hedrick subsequently awarded Lelit two of his three highest rankings on his June 2025 "Prosumer Espresso Machine Tier List," giving 'A' ratings to both the MaraX and Elizabeth models.
The beverage is served together with a glass of water which should be sipped first to cleanse the mouth.
In the case of coffee-brewing the solvent is water, the permeable substance is the coffee grounds, and the soluble constituents are the chemical compounds that give coffee its color, taste, aroma, and stimulating properties.
For an 0.5-litre (17 US fl oz) cafetière, the contents are considered spoiled, by some reports, after around 20 minutes.
T-Discs The Tassimo system utilizes proprietary non-reusable plastic beverage pods, called T-Discs, which are produced and distributed by JDE Peet's.
Not all brands are available in all markets (for example, Kraft-owned Nabob T-Discs are only available in Canada, while JDE-owned Kenco T-Discs are available in the British Isles).
Another, more complex alternative is to coat the paper with a photographic emulsion, photoprint the image and then cure the emulsion with ultraviolet light.
During the 19th century, Enamel workshops in Geneva produced large quantities of zarf sets for this market.
Hot water at approximately 176 °F (80 °C) for dark roast coffee or 185 °F (85 °C) for lighter roast is then poured over the coffee; this mixture is stirred for approximately 10 seconds before being forced through the microfilter by pushing the plunger downwards.
It is named after Melitta Bentz (1873–1950) who founded the company after she invented the drip brew paper coffee filter (German patent granted 8 July 1908).
The coffee sleeve was invented in 1991 by Jay Sorensen and patented in 1995 (under the trademarked name Java Jacket), and are now commonly utilized by coffee houses and other vendors that sell hot beverages dispensed in disposable paper cups.
In some markets, Tassimo has entered into partnerships with third parties to market T-Discs from non-Kraft and non-JDE brands.
History Holton "Rex" Diamond, an employee of Rich Products, performed experiments from 1943 to 1945 using a "[g]elationous form of soybean protein" to make a "soy cream" that would not form curds when mixed with coffee.
No matter what roasting method is used, the weather can affect the results, especially if roasting outdoors.
The store features the full line of Keurig machines and accessories and nearly 200 varieties of K-Cups for creating individualized 3-, 6-, or 12-pod boxes.
In the south of Malaysia especially the Coffee Belt region of western Johor where the Liberica variant is planted from Pontian to Senggerang, white coffee refers to coffee beans of the Liberica variant roasted without sugar nor margarine.
The visual design of the Moccamaster is distinct and is sold through the store at the Museum of Modern Art's Design Store in New York City.
The coffee capsules consist of a plastic cylinder containing up to 7.5 grams (0.26 oz) of ground coffee that is vacuum-pressed and sealed by an aluminum cap.
In 2001, Housewares International bought the Breville companies in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong.
Coffee-mate Original also contains small amounts of dipotassium phosphate, to prevent coagulation; mono- and diglycerides, used as an emulsifier; sodium aluminosilicate, an anticaking agent; artificial flavor; and annatto color.
While that brews, a filter is placed into the filter cap and moistened to help it stick in place then the AeroPress cap is placed on top of the column and screwed into place.
Unlike newer capsules and pods, this system consists of a single-use drip coffee filter placed over the cup.
Paper cup Plastic cup Glass cup Foam cup For alcoholic beverages Some styles of cups are used primarily for alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine, cocktail, and liquor.
There is always at least one word that can be made using all of the available letters, and the rules may require that a maximum length word be found.
I know this: 100% will get it if I'm the president." These incidents have been described as or likened to Freudian slips.
In August 2025, the game had 40 million downloads, in large part due to success in the United States.
Unlike popular word games like Wordle that are based on spelling and letter placement, Semantle challenges players to find a daily secret word based on semantics, or similarity in meaning.
Wit is a form of intelligent humour—the ability to say or write things that are clever and typically funny.
Words must be at least three letters long, proper nouns and names are not allowed, and there is no time limit or scoring.
The only way to avoid a vicious circle is to regard certain primitive concepts as being so simple and obvious that we agree to leave them undefined.
Some students also apply this technique to remember historical dates, vocabulary, and key concepts for exams.
He follows it to all adventures; it is sure to lead him out of his way, sure to engulf him in the mire.
In Romanian, there is a game called "Fazan" ("Pheasant"), in which players must say a word that starts with the last two letters of the previous word.
Not only his works, but the treatises within his works have titles in this manner; see his work Fatawa Razawiyyah.
Note that in this case no blanagram is available by replacing the E, so EPICOTYL and LIPOCYTE are the only eight-letter words that can be formed from the Scrabble tiles CILOPTY plus a blank.
She's pissing and taking a shit.') Modern macaronic literature Prose Macaronic text is still used by modern Italian authors, e.g.
Origins The Anderson Valley, of which Boonville is the largest town, was an isolated farming, ranching, and logging community during the late 19th century.
The first season was taped at the Kaufman Astoria Studios in New York City, and the second season was taped at the CBS Studio Center in Los Angeles.
See also Constrained writing Piphilology Six nines in pi (handled at the start of chapter 2, "Change") References 2.
He issued an invitation to all the poets of France to display their skill by composing to sets of rhymes selected for the purpose by the poet, Joseph Méry (1798-1866).
Baas-o-Beyt (Sistanian: بئث و بئت) is a special kind of rhyming game common among Sistanian people and is generally considered as a genre of Sistanian poetry (called Seytak) played by composing verses of Sistanian poems, along with some Sistanian dance and music.
This right does not, however, give citizens the right to demand publication of pseudonymous speech on equipment they do not own.
The 20th-century linguist Yuen Ren Chao utilized this poem to illustrate the complexities and unique attributes of the Chinese language, arguing that simplification and romanization would undermine its rich tonal and logographic system.
The player must rearrange them into as many words as possible within a certain time while reusing the letters repeatedly.
Spanish as used in Latin America has a further form, Vesre, in which the order of syllables is reversed.
However, George Cadar, a member of the Romanian Association of Semiotic Studies, claims to have recorded a similar form of speech far from Alba County, although he did not elaborate on this.
Recall is achieved by mentally retracing the path and using the imagined scenes to retrieve the associated information.
It is called "Šatra" (/sha-tra/)or "Šatrovački" (/shatro-vachki/) and was used in crime-related and street language.
For example, R and N in RUSSIAN may be replaced with Cyrillic Я ("ya") and И ("i") to form the faux-cyrillic "ЯUSSIAИ" (which in Russian would be pronounced yaussiai).
Rombauer, Captain Blood Returns Raphael Sabatini, Flush Virginia Woolf, Paradise Lost John Milton, Clans of the Alphane Moon Philip K.
In English "Mr & Mrs jokes" have been commonly featured in the "late arrivals" round of the radio panel show "I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue", broadcast on BBC Radio 4 since 1972, where the contestants announce the arrival of fictional guests.
Players are given seven randomly chosen letter tiles, which are replenished until all 104 tiles have been used.
If the player finds three words unrelated to the puzzle, they have the option to receive a hint, which highlights the letters in one of the theme words.
Gameplay A dynamic word game designed for two players involves wooden letter tiles, each bearing four letters.
Both poems are 24 lines long and contain 478 words, and have been subject to several literary and statistical analyses.
Yaminjeongeum (Korean: 야민정음; Hanja: 野民正音) is a South Korean Internet meme which disassembles Hangul characters of a word and replaces them with others which appear similar to the correct form.
Running while Black is a sardonic description of racial profiling experienced by Black runners in the United States and Canada.
Basic Alias The board in Alias is a "path" consisting of sequential curving numbers on a red background.
Thus one might say, "I know a word that rhymes with bird." A second asks, "Is it ridiculous?" "No, it is not absurd." "Is it a group of cows?" "No, it is not a herd." This proceeds until the right word is guessed.
Coxeter cites Vish in his discussion of definitions in mathematics: Vish illustrates the important principle that any definition of a word must inevitably involve other words, which require further definitions.
For example: This offers a sometimes intuitive alternative to systems like the International Phonetic Alphabet, which offers precise descriptions but must be learned.
Alphabetical Africa is a book by Walter Abish in which the first chapter only uses words that begin with the letter "a", while the second chapter incorporates the letter "b", and then "c", etc.
In 2023, pop singer Shakira released the song "Acróstico", which spells out the names of her children Milan and Sasha in the first letters of each line.
See also Etymology False etymology Figure of speech List of forms of wordplay List of taxa named by anagrams Metaphor Phono-semantic matching Simile Pun References External links A categorized taxonomy of wordplay composed of record-holding words
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
The different arrangement of premium squares can lead to scoring situations that would be rare or impossible in a typical Scrabble game.
Etymology "Abecedarius" (or "abecedarium") is a Medieval Latin word meaning "ABC primer", derived by adding the suffix "-arius" (-a, -um) to the names of the first four letters of the alphabet (a+b+c+d).
See also Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics References External links Official website The SymmyS Awards
The verse would be sung to a popular tune of the day and the game collapsed when a player was unable to use his wit to come up with a suitable rhyming word.
Also included are chapters on word-level phenomena, such as sentence palindromes, and wordplay involving arithmetic and geometric progressions.
In the story, the acronym EPT (Education for a Particular Task) later morphed into "Eptification for Particular Task".
The player to the left of the player who started the pickle round takes the next turn to resume normal play.
In the basic game, all players sit in a circle, and the first player describes the minister's cat with an adjective beginning with the letter 'A' (for example, "The minister's cat is an admirable cat").
Edmund Clerihew Bentley used the language as a plot point in his 1937 short story "The Old-Fashioned Apache".
I object."), or the opposite meaning "Reginam occidere nolite timere, bonum est; si omnes consentiunt ego non contradico." ("Do not be afraid to kill the Queen, it is good, if all agree then I do not object.").
Bait Bazi (Urdu: بیت بازی) is a verbal game and a genre of Urdu poetry played by composing verses of Urdu poems.
Similarly, The Sweeney (1975–78) alludes to the phrase "Sweeney Todd" for "Flying Squad", a rapid response unit of London's Metropolitan Police.
References External links The Fumblerules of Grammar by William Safire Fumblerules entry on the alt.usage.english FAQ Hacker writing style section of JARGON FILE, VERSION 4.3.3, 20 SEP 2002
They arise when semantically correct sentences are misused in epistemic contexts thus creating the illusion of meaning.
Pressing a button starts a loud ticking and, after a random time interval, the sound of an explosion.
In the traditional version of the game, one person says "I packed my bag and in it I put...", and names any object.
Green letters indicate that the letter is correctly placed, yellow letters indicate that it is in the wrong spot, and grey letters indicate that it is not in the word.
Longest examples In the book Language on Vacation: An Olio of Orthographical Oddities, Dmitri Borgmann tries to find the longest such word.
This is because Q is nearly always followed by U in English words (see exceptions), and if there were a Q in Boggle, it would be challenging to use if a U did not, by chance, appear next to it.
The game design was rejected by games manufacturers such as Parker Brothers and Milton Bradley, but Butts was able to sell copies on his own, though not enough to recoup his development expenses.
John writes "The man had a cold", which the teacher marks incorrect, while James writes the correct "The man had had a cold".
References External links Official website Windows Phone Store app details page Archived 2014-05-14 at the Wayback Machine Windows Store app details page Wordament Facebook page
The game can also be played as "I packed my grandmother's trunk", "I went on a picnic" or "I went to the shops".
It is a common Western trope used in book covers, film titles, comic book lettering, artwork for computer games, or product packaging which are set in or wish to evoke Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union, or Russia.
However, sometimes one of the vowels is changed to make the new word easier to pronounce, avoid ambiguity, or if the stem word is not in nominative.
In culture Deputy of the Rada Oleh Liashko called for the resignation of Azarov by reading a text from a paper written in Azirivka, however his microphone was quickly turned off.
WordSpot is a fast-paced word search board game where players use transparent tokens to highlight words found on a board of wooden letter tiles.
As a result, speakers may naturally transform ch [tʃ] to t [t] or when trying to pronounce certain tongue twisters.
Sophocles, Oedipus st:370 Italian Aristotele, ancora adolescente, aveva avuto accesso all’associazione accademica.
Episode Status Almost the entirety of the CBS primetime version of Password exists and has aired at various times on Game Show Network.
The rules of creating a new word that can be used in nominative while the stem is not apply similarly to standard šatrovački.
For example, a complex statement by Richard Whately includes four puns: "Why can a man never starve in the Great Desert?
John Langdon John Langdon is a self-taught artist, graphic designer and painter, who started designing ambigrams in the late 1960s and early 70s.
Modern word games As part of the modern "Golden Age" of board games, designers have created a variety of newer, non-traditional word games, often with more complex rules.
He has characters quoting haiku by Kobayashi Issa and Yosa Buson, and has them spontaneously writing their own haiku.
Metaphysical poetry as a style was prevalent in the time of English playwright William Shakespeare, who admonished pretension with the phrase "Better a witty fool than a foolish wit".
Gameplay The game presents rare and unusual words, and players secretly submit definitions for them, hoping that other players will believe their definition is the real one.
Categories is a word game where players attempt to list words that fit into particular categories, all starting with the same letter.
For example, a word where every featured letter appears twice, like "noon", might be called a pair isogram, a second-order isogram, or a 2-isogram.
A perfect pangram is an example of a heterogram, with the added restriction that it uses all the letters of the alphabet.
Sallows wondered if one could produce a pangram that counts its letters as percentages of the whole sentence–a particularly difficult task since such percentages usually won't be exact integers.
Industry observers believe that the move was designed to stop the spread of parodies or other comments on politically sensitive issues in the runup to the 20th anniversary of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre.
Definitions In the 12th century, Rashid al-Din Vatvat defined īhām as follows: "Īhām in Persian means to create doubt.
The term should not be confused with pronunciation spelling which is an ad hoc spelling of a word that has no standard spelling.
Sonia Sanchez's 1968 play The Bronx is Next includes a scene in which a White police officer arrests a Black person for running while Black.
Two teams, each composed of a celebrity and contestant, attempt to convey mystery words to each other using single-word clues, in order to win cash prizes.
Unlike typical anadromes, these anadromic formations often do not conform to any real names or words.
After playing the last tile, the opposing player will lose all the points equal to the amount of the remaining tiles.
Persian A famous example of lexical ambiguity in Persian is the following sentence: بخشش لازم نیست اعدامش کنید It can be read either as: بخشش!
In the first episode of Bordertown (2016), detective Kari Sorjonen explains the memory palace concept, and, throughout the series, he marks rectangles with tape on his basement floor where he stands to imagine himself at various significant loci in a case, organized into memory palaces.
Venezolario includes regional vocabulary, such as from the western region and Zulia, and features collectible cards with expressions, characters, cuisine, and traditional symbols, weekly tournaments where players compete, and achievements for reaching specific goals.
A sobriquet ( SOH-brih-kay, -⁠KAY) is a descriptive nickname, sometimes assumed, but often given by another.
Wordtris is a Tetris offshoot designed by Sergei Utkin, Vyacheslav Tsoy and Armen Sarkissian (who later became President of Armenia) and published by Spectrum HoloByte in 1991 for MS-DOS compatible operating systems.
'OPEC countries', 'SALT talks' and 'HIV virus' are all technically redundant because the second word is already contained in the preceding abbreviation, but only the ultra-finicky would deplore them.
See also List of famous ciphertexts Musical cryptogram American Cryptogram Association Verbal arithmetic References External links PlayCryptograms.com – browser-based cryptogram puzzles.
This practice also resembles Jin, another Sinitic language, in its process of splitting a monosyllabic word into two syllables.
Scoring points leads to progressively higher praise for the player's effort, such as "Solid", "Amazing", and "Genius".
It has very few and simple rules, requires no equipment, and it's played in multiple countries around the world, primarily in Europe.
The following is a partial list of linguistic example sentences illustrating various linguistic phenomena.
Just as an autogram is a sentence that describes itself, so there exist closed chains of sentences each of which describes its predecessor in the chain.
Sports edition On September 24, 2024, The Athletic, in partnership with The New York Times Games, launched a sports edition of Connections in beta.
A recursive acronym is an acronym that refers to itself, and appears most frequently in computer programming.
By extension, the vertices can be identified with words instead of letters to form eodermdromic phrases or sentences.
The answer—nightingale—is then (somewhat mistakenly) acted out by Becky in the role of a singing French marquise, recalling both Lacoste's 1705 tragic opera Philomèle and an arriviste lover and wife of Louis XIV.
The magazine organizes the SymmyS Awards, an annual palindrome competition named after a 1991 book by Hugo Brandt Corstius (writing as Battus) and adjudicated by a celebrity panel.
Capitalized words are often used to differentiate a philosophical concept from how the concept is referred to in everyday life, or to demonstrate respect for an entity or institution.
There is another French argot called largonji, which differs from louchébem only in the suffix that is added (-i instead of -em); the term is derived from jargon.
Double letters, apostrophes, and the fact that no letter can substitute for itself in the cipher also offer clues to the solution.
This effect is usually restricted to text set in all caps, because Cyrillic letter-forms do not match well with lower case Latin letters.
Gameplay According to the game's official rules, the player rolls the dice and attempts to use all 12 letters to make words that connect.
Later examples omitted direct references to individual syllables, such as the following, said to be a favorite of Theodore Roosevelt: The answer is "an actor".
{and she answered} Can't you see my father {right around us}, you blind man?) The next one answers like this: Byāya bogzara mesle ame'sha (بیایه بگذره مثل أمئشه) Aga yag bose me'dādi che me'sha?
In this case, the letters are inscribed in the Lombardic script of the 1260s and the complete structure would probably have stood near the high altar .
Entries included a Chinese Takeaway in Ayr town centre called "Ayr's Wok", a kebab shop in Ireland called "Abra Kebabra" and a tree-surgeon in Dudley called "Special Branch".
Šatrovački (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtroʋatʃkiː]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатровачки) or šatra (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtra]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатра) is an argot within the Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian languages comparable to verlan in French or vesre in Spanish.
Part Three: Naming all three passwords in 30 seconds multiplied the contestant's part-two winnings tenfold (meaning if a player accumulated $500 after two parts, guessing all three passwords in this part would earn $5,000).
Although a clever writer can get around this (for example, by obliquely rhyming "orange" with combinations of words like "door hinge" or "more range", or with lesser-known words like "Blorenge" [a hill in Wales], or the surname Gorringe).
Gheorghe Braica, former protopope of Cluj-Napoca and a native of Mărgău, explained in his Monografia Mărgăului ("Monograph of Mărgău") that Gumuțeasca first developed at the base of the Apuseni Mountains and that it spread from there to nearby villages.
It incorporates elements from games like Pictionary, Charades, and 25 Words or Less to create a party game with "a little bit of everything".
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
A letter is written on a sheet of paper, and each player takes turns adding a letter either to the beginning or the end of this ever-growing word stem.
A pass occurs from the time one team gets the phrase correct until the second team begins giving a clue.
He is the author of Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science of Remembering Everything, published in 2011.
In unstressed syllables, /ɨ/, /ɨj/ and /əj/ are considered more or less equivalent: thus за́лы, ма́лый and а́лой can all be rhymed.
On each team, the player who is given the password must attempt to convey it to their partner using a singular word clue.
The magazine also covers closely related forms of wordplay, including calculator words and written charades.
Compton praised Quiddler in an article in The Washington Post for its "addictive" gameplay and easily explainable rules.
With the 2022 version, the standard maximum value of the first guess is six points, with a goal of fifteen.
Non è facile, anche perché va detto il più veloce possibile Which means, in English: This is an example of phrase in Farfallino Alphabet.
Later, in the book Making the Alphabet Dance, Ross Eckler reports the word "subdermatoglyphic" (17 letters) can be found in an article by Lowell Goldsmith called Chaos: To See a World in a Grain of Sand and a Heaven in a Wild Flower.
Rules Example : 食饭 → 手习花散 [sit fan] → [siu jit fa san]; eat (rice) → hand + learn + flower + separation.
As the Oxford English Dictionary points out, the epithet "Irish" is a more recent addition, the original word bull for such nonsense having been traced back at least to the early 17th century.
It may be related to Old French boul "fraud, deceit, trickery", Icelandic bull "nonsense", Middle English bull "falsehood", or the verb bull "befool, mock, cheat".
It can also be used for older or adult learners of a foreign language, where the challenge of speaking comprehensibly, and understanding, is more difficult because of the low volume, and hence a greater mastery of the fine points of pronunciation is required.
Irish mathematician and physicist, John Lighton Synge, invented the multi-player, refereed game to emphasize the circular reasoning implicit in the defining process of any standard dictionary.
Psychology It is believed that word association can reveal something of a person's subconscious mind (as it shows what things they associate together), but others are skeptical of how effective such a technique could be in psychology.
Once every word is found, the remaining letters will spell out the solution, or "Wonderword" in order.
Exploitation of geographical names, especially exotic ones, is also common, and has been seen as invoking memories of geography lessons in order to subvert the decorum taught in the schoolroom.
Usage There are various ways to convert a word into yaminjeongeum: just replacing its consonants or vowels, rotating it, compacting it, or even using the Latin alphabet.
Most spellings were not formalized until the 1970s, primarily by the writings of Jack (Wee Fuzz) June.
Words like רננו ("rejoice ye!"), שמחה ("joy"), ברנה ("with rejoicing") were especially used for this purpose, as they express happiness.
Bush says of Lord's term: The Hypocatastasis is the substitution, without a formal notice, of agents and objects of one sphere, or of one species, in the place of the persons or objects of another, as in Is.
Examples of long words of this type are scvrnkls () 'you (m.) flicked (something) away', čtvrthrst 'quarter handful', and čtvrtsmršť 'quarter whirlwind', the latter two being artificial, though grammatical, constructs unlikely to occur spontaneously.
In the broader sense, it can refer to any technique when an author tries to hide his name or a reference to his identity in an encrypted manner (e.g.
As of 2015, it was considered nearly extinct, with fewer than 100 living speakers, many of whom were not fluent.
To help the villagers out, one player is the Seer, who knows the word but must not to be too obvious when helping them figure it out; if the word is guessed, the werewolf can pull out a win by identifying the Seer.
Fictionary, also known as the Dictionary Game or simply Dictionary, is a word game in which players guess the definition of an obscure word.
Points are redeemable for real prizes—20,000 points in Chicktionary could be redeemed for a copy of Windows Vista Home Premium.
The online game version offered players the opportunity to customize the game with "Banana Chip" credits.
Such a game can be played with each player starting the game with three lives, and losing one every time they receive a "Bad!" judgement.
In the second half of the 20th century, both have fallen out of use because after the traditional social stratification has been completely changed, the Matte is no longer a working-class neighbourhood.
The letter k is also rarely used, mainly for names and international neologisms such as kilogram and folk.
Later writers have come to regard the book as "groundbreaking", noting that it was the first book devoted solely to the description and study of wordplay, rather than simply providing a list of puzzles.
However it developed an ironic and colloquial meaning "bothersome, unlucky", as in ¡Dichosas moscas!, "Damned flies!".
Most Cyrillic letter-forms were derived from the Greek alphabet in the 9th century, but the modern forms have more closely resembled those in the Latin alphabet since Peter the Great's civil script reform of 1708.
The more odd and perplexing the rhymes are, the more ingenuity is required to give a semblance of common sense to the production.
The following are some common examples of it: Popularity There is no definitive source of the origin of Yaminjeongeum.
Use in computing In computing, an early tradition in the hacker community, especially at MIT, was to choose acronyms and abbreviations that referred humorously to themselves or to other abbreviations.
Some students like to spell things correctly and may resist attempts to get them to spell inventively.
The game was also listed as one of the Therapeutic Apps for iPhone and iPad by the Flinders University, Australia.
His Magnetic Poetry kits consist of individual words—often related to a particular theme or topic—printed on small magnets which can be creatively arranged on a refrigerator or other metal surface.
Because the town of Boonville has only a little more than 700 residents, Boontling is an extremely esoteric jargon, and is quickly becoming archaic.
The study of written verlan is difficult as it is primarily passed down orally, without standardized spelling.
The colorful and stylistic designs on the cards are based on illuminated letters found in Celtic manuscripts written over 1000 years ago.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
Superhuman strength is a superpower commonly invoked in fiction and other literary works, such as mythology.
Examples of homographs in Middle Chinese are: Modern Chinese Many homographs in Old Chinese and Middle Chinese also exist in modern Chinese varieties.
Related games A similar Japanese game is shiritori, in which the word must begin with the last mora, or kana, of the previous word.
The first known documented labeling of this casual parlor game as "Trivia" was in a Columbia Daily Spectator column published on February 5, 1965.
Tiles are shuffled face-down then turned over one by one, players forming words by combining them with existing words, their own or others'.
Dominic O'Brien, an eight-time World Memory Champion, has contributed to the popularization of the technique through his instructional writings and training programs.
It is edited by Mark Saltveit, a Portland-based stand-up comedian who won the first-ever World Palindrome Championship.
These plans never materialized, and ABC went ahead, managing strong results against NBC's Somerset and reruns of Gomer Pyle – USMC on CBS.
It implies that a motorist may be stopped by a police officer largely because of racial bias rather than any apparent violation of traffic law.
Production The game was developed by Katty and Ronald Kanzler siblings, descendants of Germans who settled in the Colonia Tovar.
Rosarigasino (also known as Gasó) is a language game (in the form of a rhyming slang) traditionally associated with the city of Rosario, province of Santa Fe, Argentina, even though very few people, if any, currently employ it.
The next person then says "I packed my bag and in it I put...", followed by the original suggestion, and adding their own.
Both bogus theories violate the rules of the epistemic game that make genuine doubt and certainty meaningful.
You can trap the next player directly or help the next player by playing a word that allows them to trap the next player.
Some versions of the game were criticized for the ease with which players could disrupt games with obscenities, and the anonymous nature of the site meant that there were no repercussions for this behavior.
While about a third of his subjects associated the word with beer, another third associated it with tiredness, dizziness and so forth.
RSVP was a vertical version of Scrabble introduced by Selchow and Righter in 1958 and promoted as "3-D Scrabble".
The written poem is easy to understand for those familiar with Chinese characters, each of which is associated with a distinct core meaning.
Notable players Samuel Pepys recorded playing in his diary entry of Saturday 19 May 1660: "From thence to the Hague again playing at crambo in the waggon, Mr.
Another use of a pseudonym in literature is to present a story as being written by the fictional characters in the story.
Origin Balderdash is based on an earlier game, Fictionary, of essentially similar gameplay, varying in that obscure words are found in an unabridged dictionary instead of the definitions and meanings provided on cards.
sanan muunnos [sa-nan mu-ːnnos] → [mu-nan sa-ːnnos] → munan saannos If necessary, stilted diphthongs are converted into allowed diphthongs as per phonotactics.
Kennedy is said to have been a fan of the game, one biography describing his family as playing it "endlessly".
The lingo has become somewhat infamous, at least in local circles or within the legends of California, owing to its small-town nature and curious-sounding name, as well as its very limited speakership.
comtesse Tation – same pronunciation in French as contestation ("dispute") l'abbé Quille – same pronunciation as la béquille ("the crutch") In 1882, Alphonse Allais invented Jean Rougy de Ontt, Tony Truand, Tom Hatt, Sarah Vigott, Azutat Laure.
In well-defined abuse cases, a designated authority may be able to revoke the pseudonyms and reveal the individuals' real identity.
Software quality To compare the quality of different machine translation systems, users perform RTT and compare the resulting text to the original.
Grammelot (or gromalot or galimatias) is an imitation of language used in satirical theatre, an ad hoc gibberish that uses prosody along with macaronic and onomatopoeic elements to convey emotional and other meaning, and used in association with mime and mimicry.
The nominal value or minimum sale price for an item can be listed on a tag for the salesperson's reference while being visible but meaningless to the customer.
(Do you remember how cool it was?) Dutch In the Netherlands and Belgium, the most common version is to insert the syllable "ep" before every vowel.
Some part of the personality seemed to have an influence on that person's behavior that was not in their conscious control.
Gameplay The object of the game is to build words of three letters or more using the tiles that fall from the top of the playing area.
Another idea associated with īhām is that a verse may function as a mirror of the reader's condition, as expressed by the 14th-century author Shaykh Maneri: "A verse by itself has no fixed meaning.
Penn State professor of kinesiology Vladimir Zatsiorsky stated that extraordinary strength can occur when a person engages their muscles through the conscious "exertion of will".
It was the third game published in the puzzles section on the New York Times website after the Crossword and Spelling Bee.
Historic rhymes One example of a historic rhyme (i.e., one that was a true rhyme but is now an eye rhyme) is the following: The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
In the eleventh episode of season two, Jane teaches his colleague Wayne Rigsby how to construct a memory palace, explaining that they are good for memorising large chunks of information at a time.
The sentence is also used to show the semantic vagueness of the word had, as well as to demonstrate the difference between using a word and mentioning a word.
Over the years, many different versions of the board game have appeared: As well as the New Alias, the Alias family currently also includes the Junior Alias for children, the Alias travel game, and as the newest introduction, DVD Alias.
Quentin40 and Puritano's Thoiry piece is also of relevance for its jargon based on apocope or shortenings.
See also Lingo – a similar TV show Wordle – a similar 2021 web game Bulls and Cows – a similar game with numbers Mastermind – a similar game with colored pegs External links Jotto — Detailed rules, strategies Working version of Jotto — Uses 5 letters with duplicates not allowed
These acrostics occur in the Hebrew Bible in the first four of the five chapters of the Book of Lamentations, in the praise of the good wife in Proverbs 31:10-31, and in Psalms 9-10, 25, 34, 37, 111, 112, 119 and 145.
Mattenenglisch sociolect The Mattenenglisch sociolect was the working class variety of the Bernese German dialect.
Conventional historic rhymes Historic rhymes that were lost phonetically in the Great Vowel Shift were sometimes retained as conventional rhymes.
(سلام و علیکو ائ یار قدیمی) Bgofto dokhtarak bose' va me de (بگفتو دخترک یگ بوسئ وه مه ده) maga kuri ke bābāyom nadidi?
The belief that the number 4 is unlucky originated in China, where the Chinese have avoided the number since ancient times.
Characteristics The main features of Azirivka is liberal replacement of vowels o, e, y, with 'i' and "akanye", replacement of the phonemes /o/ with [a], typical of Russian speech.
In Korean, 연패 (yeonpae) means either "consecutive losses" (the Sino-Korean word 連敗) or "consecutive wins" (orthographic borrowing of Japanese 連覇).
Other variations send the text through several languages before translating it back into the original or continue translating the text back and forth until it reaches equilibrium (i.e., the result of the back translation is identical to the text used for the forward translation).
Entertainment Although the use of RTT for assessing MT system quality or the suitability of a text for MT is in doubt, it is a way to have fun with machine translation.
In the United States, jogging gained popularity after World War II, and has largely been portrayed by American media as an activity typically engaged in by White people; joggers of color are treated with suspicion.
Chests are opened by guessing their contents, and they provide multiple random letters that act as hints for what a party member's potential move or backstory may be.
Attempts to modify the human body in order to gain extraordinary strength have also been depicted in fiction through characters such as Terminator, Robocop, Iron Man, and Cyborg.
RSVP was sold in the UK under the Spear's Games label as item #1051 (Copyright 1966 by Production and Marketing Company, 1968 J.
A parade in Arlington National Cemetery led by Jesus, thirty-three, driving a '27 Model-T Ford truck, a "Tin Lizzie", with J.
The letter blocks are similar to regular Scrabble tiles showing a large letter and a small number for their scoring point value (identical on their opposing faces).
On 4 May 2024, Noelia Voigt resigned as Miss USA 2023 with a resignation letter containing an acrostic spelling out "I am silenced".
In the case of proper nouns, all parts of the answer will be counted as adequate provided one begins with the letter in play.
In combination with a refrain, it forms a limerick song, a traditional humorous drinking song often with obscene verses.
Today, the books (and subsequent films) are so well known in Sweden, and also in Norway, that the language is part of the culture of schoolchildren.
Tahoiya, originally meaning "a cabin used for boar hunting", was one of the chosen words in early game play.
The object of the game is to form horizontal and vertical words by placing letter blocks in crossword fashion on your side of the frame while blocking the formation of words on the opposite side.
Cosby also used this speech variation in his "Dentist" monologue to illustrate the effects of Novocaine.
Nonsense implies the destruction of all views or opinions, on the wake of the Indian Buddhist philosopher Nagarjuna.
For example, New Jersey released state documents in 2000 which showed police training memos instructing officers to make racial judgments in order to identify "Occupant Identifiers for a possible Drug Courier" on the highway.
For example, children can be taught that, when they hear the /k/ sound at the end of a one-syllable word where a short vowel precedes the sound, the /k/ sound will be spelled ck (as in stack, wreck, stick, rock, and stuck).
Here are some examples of French words that have been made into a verlan and their English meanings: Double verlan Creating verlans often brings up words that are verlan of a verlan.
However, because it's a relatively simple game and because it can be played without pen and paper, it's spread to the wider population as a game to lighten up the mood on a lengthy trip.
Поставили повні підноси пляшок: портвейну, плиски, пшеничної, підігрітого пуншу, пива, принесли печених поросят, приправлених перцем, півники, пахучі паляниці, печінковий паштет, пухкі пампушки під печеричною підливою, пироги, підсмажені пляцки.
The winner is the player who posed the word with the difficult ending; he gets to start the next round.
Some common examples are gros ([ɡʁo], "fat") which becomes gravos ([ɡʁavo]); bonjour ([bɔ̃ʒuʁ], "hello"'), which becomes bavonjavour ([bavɔ̃ʒavuʁ]); and pénible ([penibl], "annoying"), becomes pavénaviblave ([pavenaviblav]).
A score of 100 indicates the player has found the exact word, while most unrelated words will have scores near or below zero.
The game has been compared with Scrabble and Boggle; in WordZap, players race to make proper English words to fill their rack of words, but when one player makes a word already found by the other player, the word is "zapped" from both players' racks.
See also Language game Javanais Alfabeto farfallino External links "A Língua do Pê." Online: <https://web.archive.org/web/20050518074914/http://jangadabrasil.com.br/dezembro/ca41200b.htm> October 1, 2005.
It was first published by Winning Moves Games USA in 1996 and was republished in 2006 as 25 Words or Less: People, Places and Things Edition.
"When you think about it, in the first month of the new year there will be an election in the Palestinian territory and there will be an election in Iraq.
The Guardian gave it five out of five stars, lauding it as "a five-minute conundrum that slots pleasingly into even the most harried routine" and likening it to a daily newspaper puzzle.
Another example is American ammunition manufacturer Red Army Standard Ammunition, which is stylized as "RЭD АRMY STAИDARD" (Rėd army staidard).
Since in the Hungarian language saying "I don't know" (nem tudom) or "not sure" (nem biztos) involves saying the word for "no" (nem), these are generally considered losing answers.
Wodehouse was hailed by The Times as a "comic genius recognized in his lifetime as a classic and an old master of farce" for his own acclaimed wordplay.
On their turn, a player may take a card from their hand and place it under or on top of one of the four piles in the center of the table.
Dabble is an anagram word game designed by George Weiss, who was 84 years old at the time, and published by INI, LLC in 2011.
Based on Boggle Reinvention, the main difference is that the letters would be displayed on the stage screen, and the players would have to jump on the letters in order to display their choice.
The United States Department of Defense is considering a variety of technologies to create an exoskeleton intended for military use to enhance soldier performance.
"Introdução à Criptologia." Online: <https://web.archive.org/web/20040127104620/http://www.numaboa.com.br/criptologia/intro.php> October 1, 2005.
For example: Other uses Pronunciation spellings as deliberate misspellings may be used for humorous effect.
A paraprosdokian (), or par'hyponoian, is a figure of speech in which the latter part of a sentence, phrase, or larger discourse is surprising or unexpected in a way that causes the reader or listener to reframe or reinterpret the first part.
The most popular variant of the game is known as chengyu jielong (成語接龍), which involves four character idioms instead.
For example, Gerard Manley Hopkins is anagrammed into "Kong Ran My Dealership", which parodies Hopkins' The Windhover, and describes how King Kong was hired to manage a car dealership.
Other examples are the YAML language, which stands for "YAML ain't markup language" and PHP language meaning "PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor".
Pictoword School also became a finalist at The EdTech Cool Tool Awards 2023 for the “Language Learning Solution” criteria.
For example the word "done" is an adjective in English (pronounced /dʌn/), a verb in Spanish (present subjunctive form of donar) and a noun in Czech (vocative singular form of don, pronounced /ˈdonɛ/).
For example, Ubbi Dubbi, Bicycle, and Allspråket all work by inserting a code syllable before the vowel in each syllable.
For example, if Aesop's chosen letter was "O", then a player acting as a lion may safely say they have eaten a sheep, but will be punished if they have eaten a fox.
Safire later authored a book titled Fumblerules: A Lighthearted Guide to Grammar and Good Usage, which was reprinted in 2005 as How Not to Write: The Essential Misrules of Grammar.
For example, after getting trapped once he "is F", if he gets trapped twice he "is FA" and so on until he gets trapped five times, resulting in him being out of the game.
It is most often used by young children as a way to confuse people unfamiliar with Pig Latin, such as adults.
A feature of the game that became a fad on Twitter was capturing screenshots of the bears incorporating words that had been entered by the player in random sentences.
An autogram (Ancient Greek: αὐτός = self, γράμμα = letter) is a sentence that describes itself in the sense of providing an inventory of its own characters.
They also have a choice between the conventional "WordZap" mode and the "WordHai" mode, which permits players to create 3-letter words from a set of 21 tiles.
Stock phrases such as "Any of several..." or "One or more..." sometimes lend authority to definitions.
One essay describing a modern revival of Tut on TikTok characterizes the practice as subject to “secrecy and gatekeeping,” and reports that some participants argue it should remain within African-American descendant communities due to a history of cultural appropriation.
Due to Mandarin Chinese having only four tonal ranges (compared to nine in Cantonese, for example), these works sound like a work of one syllable in different tonal range when spoken in Mandarin, but are far more comprehensible when spoken in another dialect.
John Pentland Mahaffy, Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, observed, "an Irish bull is always pregnant", i.e.
The leonine verse is notable for introducing rhyme into High Medieval literature in the 12th century.
In Hildesheim in the North of Germany, the inscription "CVra BonIfaCII, PrIMo, QVo PraefVIt Anno Abbas SpeCtatos CoLLoCat Hos CeLares " showing the year 1770 can be read above the entrance of the Hospital of Five Wounds which was built in the year indicated.
Bush, played by comedian Will Ferrell, when asked by a mock debate moderator to "sum up, in a single word, the best argument for his candidacy", replied "strategery" (a mock-Bushism playing on the word "strategy"), satirizing Bush's reputation for mispronouncing words.
After decades of history and predecessors, it was widely popularized by the 1972–1978 PBS children's show Zoom.
The 1980 levels available are grouped in packs of 20, starting with a grid size of 2x2 and reaching 8x8 in the later packs.
In 2010, back slang was reported to have been adopted for the sake of privacy on foreign tennis courts by the young English players Laura Robson and Heather Watson.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
Documentation Based on interviews of family and neighbors, Myrtle Rawles wrote an article, "'Boontling': Esoteric Speech of Boonville, California," published in 1966 by the California Folklore Society (presently Western States Folklore Society) in Western Folklore, Volume 25, No.
Etymology The term Baas-o-Beyt drives from Arabic Bahs and Beyt meaning debate and two line poetry, respectively.
While this poem is really a work of art, in spite of the artifice employed, Eichenbaum's imitators have in their translations merely produced rhymes with certain numerical values.
The acquisition was finalized by the end of the month, with chief product officer Alex Hardiman stating, "I don't think I've ever seen us move on an acquisition this fast." Vanity Fair reported that the New York Times narrowly outbid The Washington Post to acquire the game.
Word games have also been launched on the Internet and featured in major publications, such as The New York Times Spelling Bee, Connections, and Wordle.
In early 1965, Paris Match made it widely-known across France in its first issue of the year, number 823, by publishing over several weeks the best "in-memoriam" from its readers.
The game involves having to write fake, but plausible, opening (or closing) sentences of genuine books in an attempt to fool fellow players into believing your words are the authentic first (or last) lines of a given book.
Seuss's ABC or the roughly half-dozen alphabet books of Edward Gorey, the most notorious among them The Gashlycrumb Tinies.
Solving strategy To find a start you can search for: short columns columns with double letters short words words that fit logically in the sentence common word parts (eg.
Usually, nonsense backronyms will score low and the most humorous sounding backronym which effectively makes a sentence from the initials will win.
Among these is Bergerson's "Edna Waterfall", a 1039-letter poem which was for some time listed by the Guinness Book of World Records as the longest palindrome in English.
For example, in response to the question "how are you two?", a Modern Hebrew speaker can say בסדר גמור; היא בסדר, אני גמור (be-séder gamúr; hi be-séder, aní gamúr), literally "in-order complete; she in-order, I complete", i.e., "We are very good.
This continues in turns for any length of time, but often word limits are set, so that the game is agreed to end after, for instance, 400 words.
Anomia Press released multiple expansions of Anomia, including Anomia Party Edition in 2013, Anomia X and Anomia Kids in 2017, Anomia 2.0 in 2021, and Anomia Pop Culture in 2022, each of which added new categories to the game.
A Void, the English translation of another, considerably later, French novel, having the 'no e' restriction in both languages.
A fumblerule is a rule of language or linguistic style, humorously written in such a way that it breaks this rule.
In 1946, he came up with "Plan a canal p" which he admitted was "not very hopeful looking" though it became "A man, a plan, a canal: Panama!".
However, a degree of freedom still exists through appending entries to the list that are strictly superfluous.
Proper nouns and non-English words may be used as clues, and words that have already been given as clues may be repeated.
infinitive for verbs, nominative for nouns, etc.) may not be made-up or a proper name, and no previous word may be repeated.
The content of the work is based on that title, and written to mimic one of the original author's most noted works.
Alternate gameplay Under normal rules, each card played is only required to relate to the card that it touches.
Home media and different versions The DVD was released on November 24, 2009, in several countries as a theatrical version and extended cut.
Derivation The addition of the t results in consonant clusters that do not occur in Ikwerre or other local languages.
Technology All instances of Bananagrams online are the same and operate independently of platform using Large Animal Games' TOGA framework.
Overview Some of the topics studied in logology are lipograms, acrostics, palindromes, tautonyms, isograms, pangrams, bigrams, trigrams, tetragrams, transdeletion pyramids, and pangrammatic windows.
Люблю лукавых лилий лепет, Летящий ладан лепестков.Another example of a tautogram in Russian is a story with all words starting with "P".Пётр Петрович Петухов, поручик пятьдесят пятого Подольского пехотного полка, получил по почте письмо, полное приятных пожеланий.
Becoming a Bush catchphrase After the 2000 presidential election, people inside the Bush White House reportedly began using the term as a joke, but it later became a term of art meaning the oversight of any activity by Bush's political consultants.
Dick, Contact Carl Sagan, Tim O'Brien Going after Cacciato, Dan Brown Lost Symbol, and The Martian Chronicles Ray Bradbury.
Canadian Artists Syndicate Walter Feener produces a puzzle called Word Target which is distributed by the Canadian Artists Syndicate.
Syntactic ambiguity Demonstrations of ambiguity between alternative syntactic structures underlying a sentence.
The script Siculicidium (in Latin, meaning "murder of Székelys") written SICVLICIDIVM, gives exactly 1764.
The buffalo from Buffalo who are buffaloed by buffalo from Buffalo buffalo (verb) other buffalo from Buffalo.
Special Alias On the flip side of the New Alias board is the Special Alias version of the board game: the rules are otherwise the same as in New Alias, but the game has different classes: The world around us, Sports and exercise, Entertainment and culture, and Sayings and quotes.
WordBrain is a word game acquired by Swedish game developer MAG Interactive and released through them on July 19, 2015 for iOS, Android and Windows phone platforms.
Players must pass the bomb from hand to hand to avoid being blown up but, in order to do this, they must say a new word.
Snaps are scored by first multiplying the value of tiles located on a letter multiplier, adding up the points of the tiles forming each valid word, multiplying the total points by any word multiplier crossed, and finally multiplying with a "number of tiles used" multiplier.
The sports edition features the same gameplay as the regular version, with each grouping sports-themed.
Released in July 2015, it draws on creative elements of one of their older releases, the 2010 game Panda Poet.
Forms As in the wit of Dorothy Parker's set, the Algonquin Round Table, witty remarks may be intentionally cruel (as also in many epigrams), and perhaps more ingenious than funny.
Bush's strategists also came to be known within the White House as "The Department of Strategery", or the "Strategery Group".
The total number of letters is eight on Wednesdays and Thursdays, nine on Fridays and ten on Saturdays, and answers must be at least four letters long on those days.
Holy Tango of Literature is a 2004 anthology of absurdist poetry and drama in the style of various poets and playwrights, written by Francis Heaney with illustrations by Richard Thompson.
This occurs when the same content is continuously refined, paraphrased, or reprocessed, with each output becoming the input for the next iteration.
Phrases may also be presented as oxymorons for comic effect, such as comedian George Carlin's observation that the phrase "military intelligence" is an oxymoron.
ŋ́gɔ́zɪ́ wṹ lêm "Ngozi died" becomes: ńtgɔ́tzɪ́ twṹ tlêm or ńtʊ́gɔ́tɪ́zɪ́ tṹwṹ tílèm Here we have some RTR and nasal vowels.
Logology (or ludolinguistics) is the field of recreational linguistics, an activity that encompasses a wide variety of word games and wordplay.
In the novels Hannibal (1999) and Hannibal Rising (2006), by Thomas Harris, a detailed description of Hannibal Lecter's memory palace is provided.
Pass the Bomb is a word game invented by Jon Kitching, licensed by Weekend Games and published by Piatnik.
In the game of Vish (short for vicious circle), players compete to find circularity in dictionary definitions.
It is believed that this game is the longest-running on-line game, and has run for more than 3,600 rounds.
A pronunciation respelling is a regular phonetic respelling of a word that has a standard spelling but whose pronunciation according to that spelling may be ambiguous, which is used to indicate the pronunciation of that word.
Sometimes, however, they may put in more thought to find a more creative connection between the words.
Various public figures and humorists, such as The Daily Show host Jon Stewart and Doonesbury cartoonist Garry Trudeau, have popularized Bushisms.
Later on, entire verses of the Bible, or sentences from other books, having some reference to the contents or title of the book, or to the name of the author, publisher, printer, etc., were used.
Espy discovered Word Ways in 1972, and eventually used material from several dozen articles in his Almanac of Words at Play anthologies.
It has been said that, since the inhabitants of Totoi were good wood artisans who traded with their products, Totoiana could have been created so that other merchants could not understand them.
Many seven- and eight-letter words, such as KILOVOLT and QUIXOTIC, have no acceptable blanagrams; such words typically contain a subset of the letters JKQVWXZ.
The Cryptmaster has the group ascend the crypt (which has since had multiple layers built atop it) so that he can break into the world of the living.
References External links Official website Quordle British Quordle Guide Archived August 25, 2024, at the Wayback Machine
In addition to more up-to-date words, Beyond Balderdash offers obscure acronyms, dates, names, and movie titles, for which the players have to provide full names, major events, major accomplishments, and plot summaries, respectively.
Crambo is a rhyming game which, according to Joseph Strutt, was played as early as the 14th century under the name of the ABC of Aristotle.
Borgmann has since been referred to as the "Father of Logology" and his book is credited with ushering in a "golden age of wordplay".
It remains a matter of speculation exactly how rhyming slang originated, for example, as a linguistic game among friends or as a cryptolect developed intentionally to confuse non-locals.
There are variations where the picker earns no points during their round as picker, fairness being achieved by ensuring that all players take equal numbers of turns as picker.
One of the studies looking at RTT as a means of measuring MT system quality also looked at its ability to predict whether a text was suitable for machine translation.
He goes on to say that “The philosopher's treatment of a question is like the treatment of an illness” (PI §255).
Password was most often taped in New York at CBS-TV Studio 52 (later converted to the Studio 54 discothèque) and CBS-TV Studio 50 (the Ed Sullivan Theater) until the end of the daytime run in 1967.
There is not a philosophical method, though there are indeed methods, like different therapies” (PI §133).
It was used mainly by market sellers, such as butchers and greengrocers, for private conversations behind their customers' backs and to pass off lower-quality goods to less-observant customers.
The mechanics of having to buy tiles low and form them into words to sell high is such a unique mechanic ...
One famous piece of constrained writing in the Chinese language is "Lion-Eating Poet in the Stone Den", which consists of 92 characters, all with the sound shi.
One player thinks of a word, phrase, or sentence and the other(s) tries to guess it by suggesting letters or numbers within a certain number of guesses.
See also The New York Times Games – Casual games by The New York Times References External links Official website
Many older English poems, particularly those written in Early Modern and Middle English, contain rhymes that were originally true or full rhymes, but as read by modern readers, they are now eye rhymes because of shifts in pronunciation, especially the Great Vowel Shift.
The app was launched on 12 July 2025, and in it players must guess Venezuelan colloquial words and phrases.
The meaning of the word in the original literary contexts, however, is still not properly understood and the modern usage of the term may be historically inaccurate.
Example The first one starts the Baas-o-Beyt like this: Rasido var sare rude Adimi (رسیدو ور سر رود ادیمی) Salāmo ale'ko e' yāre ghadimi!
In its catalogue description, the Victoria and Albert Museum state that Lexicon is "the best known of the more sophisticated spelling card games" published during the 1920s and 1930s.
In each turn, they guess a five-letter word; once the player finishes, each letter is colored based on how accurate the player's guess is.
History and description Although Boontling is based on English, many of its unusual words are unique to Boonville, California.
Official "cleanup" of the internet, which threatens the Caonima, has led Chinese internet users to create other "Mud Horse" variants, such as the 滾泥马; Gǔnnímǎ; "Rolling Mud Horse" and the "幹泥马; Gànnímǎ; "Working Mud Horse".
A problem that has arisen with this game is the creation of bots to play and win these games and gain prizes for human bot programmers.
Thus the dates of the epitaphs of the family of Asher ben Jehiel in the first half of the fourteenth century are indicated by chronograms (Almanzi, "Abne Zikkaron", pp.
Radio Episodes of Car Talk followed their actual staff credits with a much longer list of pun-based fictional ones, varying from episode to episode but usually concluding with an "Erasmus B.
Reception The game has received average reviews with a Metacritic score of 69/100 based on 6 reviews.
How goes it, my friend?!) doctor → tordo (doctor, usually meaning physician but also used for lawyers.
So if you guess PEACHY and the secret word was OTHERS, you get a reply of 0 (because the E and H are in the wrong positions).
Background Lion-Eating Poet in the Stone Den is an example of a one-syllable article, a form of constrained writing possible in tonal languages such as Mandarin Chinese, where tonal contours expand the range of meaning for a single syllable.
Groups Rethinking The Scifaiku Manifesto The Periodic Table of Haiku (archived version) Chemical Elements Reduced to Words All Things Considered, June 9, 2005 · Melissa Block and Robert Siegel read scifaiku from the Periodic Table of Haiku Five Haiku by Geoffrey A.
[Those] buffalo(es) from Buffalo [that are intimidated by] buffalo(es) from Buffalo intimidate buffalo(es) from Buffalo.
Players keep track on paper of each guess and result, crossing out letters of the alphabet that (by deduction) cannot appear in the opponent's secret word.
For an untrained speaker, a word or phrase can often be something of a tongue twister or a shibboleth.
Venezolario is a mobile word game developed and published by siblings Ronald and Katty Kanzler for Android and iOS.
Some assert that the jargon was created by the women, children, and young men in the hop fields and sheep-shearing sheds as a means of recreation, and that it spread through the community as the children continued using it when they grew up.
It became popular after the books about Bill Bergson by Astrid Lindgren, where the children use it as a code, both at play and in solving actual crimes.
Television version A television game show based on the game aired on Pax TV in 2004 with comedian Elayne Boosler as host.
Wexler first described the eodermdrome in May 1980, and it subsequently became more widely known after publication in Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics in August 1980.
See also Totoiana, an inverted speech form spoken in Romania Romanian dialects, even if Gumuțeasca does not represent a dialect Notes References External links Video about Gumuțeasca on YouTube
It is one of the best example of Bait Bazi, sung in a poetic singing competition between two groups, led by Lata Mangeshkar and Shamshad Begum.
The game was also featured Games's Best Games of 1988, where Marley concluded that "though Outburst is easy to learn, many topics are too hard—and occasionally too spicy—for children." Outburst had sold 2.5 million copies by 1990.
refused to confirm or deny whether the profane double entendre was intentional but appreciated the added publicity that the poster generated.
Chancerel in fact uses the word in his book, Le théâtre et la jeunesse (Paris: Bourrellier 1946:47).
References External links Scattergories Mobile on iTunes Le Jeu du Bac, the French version of the game, on Facebook Scattergories online multiplayer version liste-mots.com, French dictionary Scattergories at BoardGameGeek
This was one of the last Goodson-Todman shows to be a victim of wiping practices before the production company blocked the practice moving forward, so they could sell the reruns to syndication.
The online version adhered to the same protocol as the tabletop edition, but certain gameplay adjustments and social features were also available.
The term is also a centerpiece of the fictitious firm Strategery Capital Management, LLC, a satirical website, which mocks the Treasury's $700 billion "Troubled Asset Rescue Plan" (which itself is a spoof of the real-world Troubled Asset Relief Program, which Bush signed into law in 2008).
It is often used as an example of such a phrase when learning Czech or Slovak as a foreign language.
Some words have even leaked into common, everyday use by the masses; an example is the word loufoque, meaning "eccentric".
An example, in the context of cheerleading: where the presumption is that the listener anticipates the chant ending with "ass" rather than "other knee".
Identically written different senses of what is judged to be fundamentally the same word are called polysemes; for example, wood (substance) and wood (area covered with trees).
Some linguists from Cluj County have defined the argot as a "rural professional argot", which would be the only one of this type known in Romania.
Reception Apensar was ranked in the top 10 free games in over 30 countries, in the top 3 in the United States, [when?], and first in Venezuela.
Chicktionary was developed by Blockdot, a Dallas, Texas based developer of games and branded entertainment applications.
James while John had had had had had had had had had had had a better effect on the teacher – With punctuation: "James, while John had had 'had', had had 'had had'.
The name "farfallino" comes from the word "farfalla" (butterfly), which is an ordinary Italian word but sounds like the "codified" words in farfallino alphabet.
This continues until there are no more matches, and then players continue to flip cards from the draw pile.
Play In the early versions of the game up to the eighteenth century, teams would vie with each other to find and express a rhyme for a word or line presented by the opposing player or team.
The film-making team of Joel and Ethan Coen, for instance, share credit for editing under the alias Roderick Jaynes.
Games like Codenames, Decrypto, and Anomia were all designed after 2010, and have earned widespread acclaim.
Q-Less is a single-player word puzzle game in which the player rolls 12 dice and uses the resulting letters to form connected words in a crossword-style arrangement.
The name Yaminjeongeum is a blend of Hunminjeongeum and Yagael (야갤); Yagael is short for Gungnae Yagu Gallery (국내야구 갤러리; 國內野球 갤러리), the domestic baseball league section of DC Inside.
Aesop then asks each player in turn to name an animal that they have eaten recently; their answer must be a creature that the animal they are playing would plausibly be capable of eating.
Here Come the ABCs, a 2005 children's album by They Might Be Giants, contains the song "I C U", which is entirely made up of gramograms.
The sentence is syntactically ambiguous; one possible parse (marking each "buffalo" with its part of speech as shown above) is as follows: Buffaloa buffalon Buffaloa buffalon buffalov buffalov Buffaloa buffalon.
Through describing and correctly guessing keywords, teams advance their respective pawns around a spiraling track.
Each issue of the magazine prints a variety of palindromes in various forms (letter-unit, word-unit, and vertical), covers palindrome-related news, and seeks to accredit writers of famous palindromes.
See also Argot Pig Latin Tutnese or Double Dutch, similar rules Ubbi dubbi Javanais Gibberish == References ==
The year of death of the associate rabbi of Prague, Zalman, who perished in the great fire of 1689 (=5449 Jewish era), is indicated by the words 'באש יצא מאת ד (bolded letters equal 449) (ib.
In his Nobel lecture, Fo referred to the 16th-century Italian playwright Ruzzante's invention of a similar language based on Italian dialects, Latin, Spanish, German and onomatopoeic sounds.
His first and longest job was at Rolls-Royce in Derby, and as many as 30 other jobs, particularly in his early career, were in engineering shops of car companies despite Mercer never learning to drive.
Creation Spelling Bee was created by Frank Longo following a proposal from Will Shortz, who was inspired by “a popular feature in British newspapers”, namely the puzzle game Polygon from The Times.
Though once used in more serious applications, they are now mainly printed for entertainment in newspapers and magazines.
Respelling Pronunciation spellings may be used informally to indicate the pronunciation of foreign words or those whose spelling is irregular or insufficient for the reader to deduce the pronunciation.
See also Here Comes an Old Soldier from Botany Bay, a nursery rhyme sometimes sung in a similar way == References ==
A new puzzle is released for Strands every day, similar to other games offered by The New York Times.
They are violent and extraordinary, and are employed by substitution, to signify analogous acts of extreme oppression and tyranny.
Focusing on the accuracy of spelling is the manner used in conventional teaching methods and was effectively universal prior to the implementation of 1970s school reform involving whole word literacy and "new math".
'Javanese (language)') is a type of French slang where the extra syllable ⟨av⟩ is infixed inside a word after every consonant that is followed by a vowel, in order to render it incomprehensible.
(Someone asked Will 1 directly if Will 2 plans to bequeath his own will, the document, to Will 3.) Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo.
Buffalo buffalo (main clause subject) [that] Buffalo buffalo (subordinate clause subject) buffalo (subordinate clause verb) in turn buffalo (main clause verb) Buffalo buffalo (main clause direct object).
A Slib of Lorey (translation: A bit of folklore) by Edna Sanders English to Boontling by Judy Belshe-Toernblom.
However, as a proponent of Gwoyeu Romatzyh and General Chinese, Chao was not arguing against the phoneticization of Mandarin Chinese but merely showcasing its limits.
The French branch of the family uses the spelling 'de Cockborne', with the middle "ck" being pronounced.
Bonza is a single-player crossword puzzle application developed by MiniMega, which was chosen by Apple to become part of the App Store's Best of 2014 list.
Of the 1169 anagrams Bergerson lists, most are sourced to the files of the National Puzzlers' League, and some had been previously printed in Dmitri Borgmann's Language on Vacation.
Other crypto puzzles While the cryptogram has remained popular, over time other puzzles similar to it have emerged.
Following its release, multiple editions have been published, including Anomia Party Edition, Anomia X, Anomia Kids, Anomia 2.0 (UK), and Anomia Pop Culture.
Each round ends when either one player fills the word rack, or time runs out without either player being able to make another word.
Bogas composed the soundtrack for Wordtris using his own music software Super Studio Session for the Macintosh, in which his MIDI files were converted to the game in MIDI format.
A great-grandson of this Scottish-German Kabrun was the wealthy merchant and renowned book collector, art collector and philanthropist Jacob Kabrun Jr.
With the game ending so quickly there is not enough time to really form a strategy and thus luck plays a larger role in the outcome of the game." Mortensen concluded, "The economic mechanics make BuyWord one of the most enjoyable word games that I have played.
Four days after an episode introduced "our guest NOUN, Bob Hope", bookstores sold out of Mad Libs books.
When the two characters were in a car atop the tree, he was originally written as saying, "Sam-I-am.
Similarly, the term "civil war" is sometimes jokingly referred to as an "oxymoron" (punning on the lexical meanings of the word "civil").
Theatre The finale of act 1 of Gilbert and Sullivan's Savoy Opera Iolanthe has several instances of humorous macaronic verse.
These expressions, such as "holy cow" and "kick the bucket" carry meanings and cultural implications that only a native speaker would understand.
Those letters, pronounced in French, sound like "Elle a chaud au cul", an idiom which translates to "she has a hot ass", or in Duchamp's words "there is fire down below".
In Lexicon Criss-Cross, the players form words within a 5×5 grid using 25 cards revealed in succession from the deck.
Boggle CD-ROM, a version for Windows, produced and marketed by Hasbro Interactive, including both 4×4 and 5×5 versions, several 3-D versions, and facilities allowing up to four players to compete directly over the Internet.
Several online tools have been created to provide daily hints and analysis of the puzzle, among them one by science fiction author William Shunn was mentioned in the New York Times itself.
Together, the three founded the publishing firm Price Stern Sloan in the early 1960s as a way to release Mad Libs.
In order that the game not be overly difficult, as it must be done entirely in the head, only perfect matches return a count.
Gameplay In standard Boggle, the player is given a 4x4 grid of lettered dice, and the player must then find as many possible words in the grid of letters.
If they are unsure, they can ask their contacts through social media (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and WhatsApp), text message, email, or pay for clues with coins.
In the Selchow & Righter edition, a word may be stolen by any player immediately after it was made if they form a longer word with tiles from the pool.
Taking up mechanisms similar to those of French verlan, similar jargons have also been established in other Western countries.
'Had had' had had a better effect on the teacher", or "James, while John had had 'had had', had had 'had'.
The phrase 裏庭には2羽庭には2羽鶏がいる means "In the backyard and in the yard, there are 2 chickens", but is pronounced うらにわにはにわにわにはにわにわとりがいる, or Uraniwa ni wa niwa niwa ni wa niwa niwatori ga iru.
The term was later applied to the speech of other Ukrainian politicians with poor command of Ukrainian.
There is no t before the word-initial syllabic nasal in Nkechi or word-initial vowel in iji, as neither is a CV syllable.
The mockumentary film Borat used faux Cyrillic to stylize its title as BORДT (Bordt, in Russian the name would be spelt БОРАТ).
Examples The following sentence is an example which matches the first fifteen digits of π: How I need a drink, alcoholic of course, after the heavy lectures involving quantum mechanics!
While the characters used in a one-syllable article have many different meanings, they are all pronounced as the same syllable, although not with the same tone.
In 1994, Michael Bishop's story "Cri di Coeur" (IASFM 1994) featured a haiku contest held on an interstellar ship, with the topic of haiku about astrophysics, subject to the constraint that (as in Japanese haiku) the poems must each feature a season.
See also Anagram dictionary Double entendre Language game List of puzzle video games Phono-semantic matching Puns Puzzles Rebuses – picture puzzles representing a word Verbal arithmetic Word chain Word play Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics == References ==
The timed version allows players to form words within two minutes per round and there is no limit in the other mode.
Different rules apply for one-syllable words, and words with more than two syllables may be verlan-ised in more than one way.
However, some dictionaries insist that the words must also be pronounced differently, while the Oxford English Dictionary says that the words should also be of "different origin".
In the face-off rounds, the two players enter their acronyms and everyone else votes not knowing which acronym is from which player.
Nevertheless, they continued to be abundantly composed in France throughout the 17th century and a great part of the 18th century.
For example, in German, where all nouns are capitalized, there are many pairs such as Laut 'sound' ~ laut 'loud' or Morgen 'morning' ~ morgen 'tomorrow'.
Thus Superghost, Superduperghost, Xghost played on regular languages are all PSPACE-hard and in EXPSPACE.
Innumerable errors have been made by bibliographers because the distinguishing marks were missing or blotted, or had been omitted.
In October 2022, two amateur improvisational actors played a media prank, pretending to be newly fired Twitter employees "Rahul Ligma" and "Daniel Johnson" on the eve of Elon Musk's takeover of the company, and multiple major media outlets reported the incident as actual news.
The game is usually played by different house rules; the game either ends when kalodont is used, with the person saying it being the winner or kalodont being the only repeatable word that can be used to eliminate the previous player.
There are other examples of vowelless sentences in Czech and Slovak, such as prd krt skrz drn, zprv zhlt hrst zrn, meaning 'a mole farted through grass, having swallowed a handful of grains'.
From the introduction inside the box lid: RSVP is played on both sides of an upright frame by two players.
The 1980s Canadian gameshow Bumper Stumpers required contestants to decode gramograms presented as fictional vanity licence plates.
He carefully analyzed letter frequencies in newspapers and other printed works to determine the ideal letter distribution for the game.
Once everyone has done so, the first player describes the cat with an adjective beginning with the letter 'B'.
Since all the other children spoke Pig Latin, we were superior because Tut was hard to speak and even harder to understand.
Also, Finnish inflectional and derivational morphology is extensive, thus applying a suffix from another word often produces a valid word.
African Americans in the southeastern United States created Tutnese to covertly teach spelling and reading.
The first line has three syllables, the second has one, the third has four, and so on, following the sequence of pi as it extends infinitely.
The song heavily employs unaltered French words that naturally have an ⟨av⟩ sequence; thus the lyrics resemble the word game of javanais.
The name "Befudiom" combines the words "befuddled" and "idiom," alluding to the game's root in mixed-up meanings.
Most of these are nonce words though some have achieved a certain amount of standardization, e.g., the informal use of the word gonna to represent an informal pronunciation of going to.
A successful challenge reduces the challenger's accumulated points by 10, and an unsuccessful one increases it by 10.
Other recognition A copy of Buyword is held in the "Sid Sackson Portal" collection of the Strong National Museum of Play (object 107.873).
For instance, SVRGE O IEHOVA ATQVE DISPERGE INIMICOS TVOS ("Rise, oh Jehovah, and destroy your enemies", a slightly altered version of Psalm 68:2) gives 1625 as the year of building.
It maintained this meaning in Spanish nimio, but it was also misinterpreted as "insignificant, without importance".
Some of the more devoted Shadows fans threatened ABC with physical disruption of the first tapings of Password at the Hollywood studios.
(For example, if the first player calls "T", the second might call "R" to make "TR".) Each fragment must be the beginning of an actual word.
Ports were released for the Game Boy and Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1992, followed by a Mac version in 1993.
Espy Jeremiah Farrell Martin Gardner Mike Keith Douglas Hofstadter Lila Maria de Coninck See also Constrained writing List of forms of word play Oulipo Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics References Bibliography Books Bergerson, Howard W.
A branch of the family was established in France in the 16th century by mercenary soldiers under the terms of the Auld Alliance.
In the traditional version of the game, a player familiar with the rules takes on the role of Aesop, and secretly chooses a letter of the alphabet.
Gameplay The gameplay mechanic is based on finding one or several specific words on a puzzle grid and swiping over the scrambled letters to see words collapse.
There are also many variations that can be made upon the same pattern such as: CabV, CalV, CanV, etc.
The player ends their turn by discarding one card from their hand so that the player ends up with the same number of cards as were dealt.
Development The game was originally picked up by Meldac as WordHai at the 1991 Summer Consumer Electronics Show, but Meldac of America went into bankruptcy before the game ever went into release, and it was picked up by Jaleco where it was released as WordZap.
It uses a smaller, more common vocabulary, making it more accessible for younger players or those looking for a less intense challenge.
Teasing rhyme is a form of innuendo, where the unsaid word is taboo or completes a sentence indelicately.
Each puzzle also contains a "spangram," a word or short phrase that describes the theme itself and spans two opposite edges of the grid (it can begin and/or end elsewhere, though).
Dann, Jack (1995) The Memory Cathedral: A Secret History of Leonardo da Vinci: Bantam Books 0553378570 Dresler, Martin, et al."Mnemonic Training Reshapes Brain Networks to Support Superior Memory", Neuron, 8 March 2017.
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
Cathy Duffy Reviews described the game as a simple activity that reinforces spelling and vocabulary skills.
Children's literature Some of the best-known and loved abecedarians have been written for children, such as Dr.
Each following player has to reply with another verse starting with the last letter of the verse used by the previous player.
1979–1989: Password Plus and Super Password Between 1979 and 1989, two revivals of Password aired on NBC.
Double meaning Some paraprosdokians not only change the meaning of an early phrase, as in garden-path sentence, but also play on the double meaning of a particular word, creating a form of syllepsis or antanaclasis (a type of pun).
Boontling was invented in the late 19th century and had quite a following at the turn of the 20th century.
Nofon èfe fafacifilefe, afanchefe peferchèfe vafa defettofo ifil pifiùfu vefelofocefe pofossifibifilefe Its translation in Italian is: Questo è un esempio di frase in alfabeto farfallino.
Italian has riocontra featuring inversion of syllables, spoken in Milan and trancorio, spoken in the Mompiano neighborhood of Brescia.
Kalodont or kaladont is a South Slavic word game, popular in Croatia, Montenegro, Serbia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and North Macedonia, in which players in turn say words, each beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
Totoiana was created with the purpose of being unintelligible for normal Romanian speakers, although its origins or the reason why this would be needed are unknown.
The clue type is generally indicated by a direct reference to 'Spooner', or 'Rev', although more tricky examples might use such phrases as 'in a manner of speaking', or 'slip of the tongue', etc.
Some rounds may have a specific topic that the answers should fit, although enforcement of the topic depends on solely on the other players' willingness to vote for off-topic answers.
Generally the cipher used to encrypt the text is simple enough that the cryptogram can be solved by hand.
References Heli Harrikari: A Constraint-based Approach to Finnish CV Spoonerisms External links List of Finnish spoonerisms
In 1971 University of Texas Press published his book, Boontling: an American Lingo, which included an extensive dictionary.
Gameplay The game is played by one player from each of the two teams drawing a card (one between the two of them) and looking at the five words on the card.
Cooper said that unlike the original version, which he called a word game, the sports edition relied more on a trivia component to solve, with Cooper trying to include one category each game that is trivia based.
The English-language Wikipedia, for example, has its own respelling system (available at Help:Pronunciation respelling key) which may or may not match that used on other Wikipedias or in other contexts.
As with several other Goodson-Todman/Goodson game shows, Password has been adapted into a slot machine by WMS Gaming.
Reception Evan Killham of GamesBeat gave the game a score of 85 out of 100, citing many positives but conceding the requirement for the game to be continually connected to the internet a problem.
The people of Mărgău traditionally worked with glass for centuries, making mirrors, windows and religious icons and selling them to other parts of the country such as Bucharest, the capital of Romania, or Brăila and Constanța.
häipyvät tavut [hä-ipyvät ta-vut] → [ta-ipyvät hä-vut] → taipuvat hävyt That is, transformation is A, U, O into Ä, Y, Ö, if the former do not begin the word.
Based on the principle of Scrabble, it allows players to play games with up to 30 friends and random opponents simultaneously.
Maya Angelou mentions learning Tutnese as a child in I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, the first volume of her series of autobiographies.
The sentence is easier to understand with added punctuation and emphasis: James, while John had had had, had had had had; had had had had a better effect on the teacher.
The ED/IES SBIR funds entrepreneurial developers to create the next generation of education technology for students, teachers, and administrators in general and special education.
Development The New York Times Games research director Juliette Seive developed the pitch for what would later become Strands.
History The Urdu language has a very rich poetic tradition, and the game is very popular among poetry enthusiasts particularly in Pakistan.
History The ciphers used in cryptograms were created not for entertainment purposes, but for real encryption of military or personal secrets.
The game ends when the deck runs out, and the winner is the player with the most cards in their winning pile.
In an article for Reader's Digest, Chloë Nannestad described Quiddler as "the best 2-player card game around" for those who enjoy word games.
Generally the game has no preset time limits for either answers or the game session itself, but answers are expected to be given in a reasonably short amount of time.
Similarly, the French argot verlan, in which the order of the syllables within a word is inverted (e.g.
It was not a "true" one-syllable article in that some characters were not homophonic, leading Chao to modify the poem over time, leading to its canonical form where every syllable uses /shi/.
Examples: você → vo-po-cê-pê gato → ga-pa-to-po menino → me-pe-ni-pi-no-po Vowel-changing dialect This "dialect" is like the one described above, except that some vowels are changed.
By the time of the First World War, "acting charades" had become the most popular form and, as written charades were forgotten, it adopted its present, terser name.
Serbian has a form of slang called Šatrovački followed in the 1990s with a more ambiguous slang called utrovački.
1600, "flies" and "enemies" rhymed in local dialects, but as a result of the shifts in pronunciation since then, the original rhyme has been lost.
A letter of the alphabet is then chosen at random, and players have a set amount of time to write something for each category that starts with that letter.
The early 14th-century word soubzsbriquez meant a "little blow under the chin" in French, also described as a chuck under the chin; this was derived from soubs, mod.
The graph of the complete word contains a subgraph which is a subdivision of the non-planar graph K3,3, and as such is itself non-planar.
Linguistics Although there are many instances in editing where removal of redundancy improves clarity, the pure-logic ideal of zero redundancy is seldom maintained in human languages.
Acceptable answers that are proper nouns using alliteration score one point for each word using the letter.
Nomenclature A contronym is alternatively called an autantonym, autoantonymy, auto-antonym, antagonym, antilogy, contranym, enantiodrome (enantio- means "opposite"), enantionym, enantioseme, Janus word (after the Roman god Janus, who is usually depicted with two faces), or self-antonym.
Reception Cryptmaster received "generally favorable reviews" according to review aggregator website Metacritic, scoring a 77/100 on the site.
In the video game Zork the first letters of sentences in a prayer spelled "Odysseus" which was a possible solution to a Cyclops encounter in another room.
Much of practical sananmuunnos wordplay revolves around obscene double entendre expressed by spoonerism.
The term was first used in print in 1979 in Douglas Hofstadter's book Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid, in which Hofstadter invents the acronym GOD, meaning "GOD Over Djinn", to help explain infinite series, and describes it as a recursive acronym.
The archetypal example is by François Le Lionnais, who transformed John Keats' "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" into "Un singe de beauté est un jouet pour l'hiver": 'A monkey of beauty is a toy for the winter'.
This can be read either as "Edwardum occidere nolite; timere bonum est" ("Do not kill Edward; it is good to be afraid [to do so]") or as "Edwardum occidere nolite timere; bonum est" ("Do not be afraid to kill Edward; [to do so] is good").
Examples of text-based (orthographic) wordplay are found in languages with or without alphabet-based scripts, such as homophonic puns in Mandarin Chinese.
Literary dialect Pronunciation spellings are sometimes used in narratives to represent nonstandard dialects or idiolects to create an impression of backwardness or illiteracy in the speaker.
Mandarin Chinese Various sentences using the syllables mā, má, mǎ, mà, and ma are often used to illustrate the importance of tones to foreign learners.
Some of this material was recycled for Borgmann's second book, Beyond Language: Adventures in Word and Thought, and other topics were worked into Word Ways articles.
Password would become Goodson-Todman's first show to be staged in Los Angeles full-time rather than New York City.
Development The games department of The New York Times hosts an annual game jam in which participants suggest ideas for upcoming games to release to the website.
Examples of transformed sentences (although, most of the words in a single sentence are rarely transformed) are: Brate, neću da igram fudbal.
The term sobriquet is equally applicable as a name for a person, group of people, historical event, or place.
A twin kangaroo is a kangaroo word that contains two joey words (for example: container features both tin and can, magister features both master and mister).
Recognition Wonderword has done puzzles that have caught the attention of Boeing, Swarovski and Bill O'Reilly among others.
Scifaiku follow three major principles – minimalism, immediacy and human insight: Scifaiku follows the haiku model, including its spirit of minimalism.
The debate is closely linked with the debate over whole language literacy instruction and phonics instruction.
More recently, Irwin Toy released a new hand-held electronic version featuring a touch screen with a stylus to enter words.
Hypocatastasis is a figure of speech that declares or implies a resemblance, representation or comparison.
– "Examples of the can-can dance that other examples of the same dance are able to outshine, or figuratively to put into the trashcan, are themselves able to outshine examples of the same dance".
If all words are legal, the player wins; if not, the player is given Rotten Bananas and is out of the game.
Partick Thistle are known as the "Harry Rags", which is taken from the rhyming slang of their 'official' nickname "the jags".
The University of Colorado Trivia Bowl was a mostly student contest featuring a single-elimination tournament based on the GE College Bowl.
The original pitch for the game was created by Juliette Seive, and puzzles are edited by Tracy Bennett.
Towards the 8th century of Rome, the letters assumed their artistic forms and lost their older, narrower ones.
Ex Libris: The Game of First Lines and Last Words is a party game of literary bluff related to fictionary.
Babbi → (i) boba Sbirri → (i) rosbi Selvagge → (le) gioselva Tipe → (le) pati Chili → (i) lochi Developments of the riocontra The riocontra then gradually spread throughout Italy with the advent of trap music, as the language of the youth groups.
There are five stanzas, with 3, 1, 4, 1, and 5 lines each, respectively for a total of fourteen lines in the poem.
For example: However, respelling relies on the writer's encoded mapping to the same phonemes as the reader's; e.g.
Content Like Borgmann's first book, Language on Vacation: An Olio of Orthographical Oddities, Beyond Language is a treatise on recreational linguistics, and indeed is based in part on material excised from early drafts of Language on Vacation.
As such the translation is: "If, in the town where the easy to sieve sieves seven sieves sieve seven sieves, Zeven, seven sieves sieve seven sieves, seven sieves sieve seven sieves".
References External links 25 Words or Less, Link to the game on Boardgamegeek.com 25 Words or Less: People, Places and Things Edition, Link to the game on Boardgamegeek.com
The Star looked at "out-of-sight" offenses such as failing to update a driver's license or driving without insurance when no other offense was found.
Rachel Hommel wrote an untitled "Cadaeic Cadae", which uses the cadaeic form as explained above, and adds a level of complexity to it wherein the number of letters in each word represents a digit of pi.
In contrast, an anti-kangaroo word is a word that contains its antonym (for example: covert carries overt, animosity carries amity).
Semantle is a browser-based word guessing game created by American developer David Turner in January 2022.
In the majority of alternades, every second letter is used to make two smaller words, but in some cases, every third letter is used to make three smaller words.
In In Your Face, 16 columns of letters are stacked, and the player must make words by using the visible letters in the columns.
See also Gumuțeasca, an argot spoken in Romania Romanian dialects, even if Totoiana does not represent a dialect == References ==
The term fumblerules was coined in a list of such rules compiled by William Safire on Sunday, 4 November 1979, in his column "On Language" in The New York Times.
In Korean, a similar game is kkeunmaritgi (끝말잇기), in which players must say a word that starts with the last Hangul letter of the previous word.
In some cases, the identical spelling of a word in two languages is coincidental; in other cases, it is because they descend from the same ancestor word.
Literature A pen name is a pseudonym (sometimes a particular form of the real name) adopted by an author (or on the author's behalf by their publishers).
However, as of the middle of 2014 the game is published by Raketspel and is no longer published by Rovio Stars.
On a player's turn, after revealing a tile, they have a ten-second window during which only they can call a word.
ISBN 979-8485105631 External links Writing in Pilish Pilish Checker Accidental Pilish Cadaeic Cadenza
Guggenheim In the variant known as "Guggenheim", players write a list of categories down one edge of the paper, and five columns across it, each column headed with a different letter so as to spell a five-letter word.
The following sentence mixes late Old Dutch and Latin: Translated: This community was noble and pure, and completely full of all virtues.
Le Train de Nulle Part (The Train from Nowhere) is a 233-page French novel, written in 2004 by a French doctor of letters, Michel Dansel, under the pen name Michel Thaler.
Cryptmaster was created after many iterations of an idea in which words were the core gameplay mechanic.
List of common language games Additionally, Auflinger described some types of speech disguise in some languages near the city of Madang in Papua New Guinea.
A modern form of Grammelot can be heard in the Despicable Me franchise, where the Minions speak a fictitious language; the language is made up of words borrowed from several languages, which make no cohesive sense, relying instead on tone and expression to convey the meaning.
A full-length Pilish novel has been published, Not A Wake by Mike Keith which currently holds the record of the longest Pilish text with 10,000 digits represented.
The first version to include the word Anagrams in its name may have been The Game of Letters and Anagrams on Wooden Blocks, published by Parker Brothers around 1890.
Termo The exception is the word merda, which although it can become darme, becomes damer or rdame Some syntactic gemination also happens: chesciato → tochescia → tocchescia Riccone → nericco → nerrico tocco → ccoto → cotto It should also be noted that, with the inversion, the plural is lost.
Bonza was described as a "game with a strangely erratic rhythm", but received praise for its value in providing 70 puzzles for less than a dollar.
In Hennessey's view, Bush "intentionally aimed his public image at average Americans rather than at Cambridge or Upper East Side elites".
A "tie" judgement is awarded in favor of the receiver If the passer or receiver challenges a point, the oldest player in the game who is not the passer or receiver resolves the dispute.
Faux Cyrillic, pseudo-Cyrillic, pseudo-Russian or faux Russian typography is the use of Cyrillic letters in Latin text, usually to evoke the Soviet Union or Russia, though it may be used in other contexts as well.
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
He brought all their children into the world, and one of them later wrote that at the age of six he was sent to Trevissome Farm "to be' inoculated for the small-pox".
Say was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the Tenth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Joseph Clay.
John Bagford then somewhat later argued for an origin of the assemblage in the Roman presence under the Emperor Claudius; this was in a letter of 1715, in which Bagford accepted the human origin of the handaxe.
The text was encoded using a scheme now known as the Arnold Cipher, which used Commentaries on the Laws of England by William Blackstone as a cryptographic key.
For many years this bust occupied such a position as to be virtually excluded from sight; but in 1846 it was placed on a bracket at the upper end of the hall.
Despite this, in his lifetime he was better known than his teacher, Francis Towne, some of whose Italian views he copied.
References External links Will of Thomas Graham, His Majesty's Apothecary in London of Garthmore, Perthshire Pall Mall, North Side, Past Buildings
He remained an apothecary for about twenty years, when he acted on his diploma, and practised only as a physician, finally retiring in 1812.
After the opening of the free market in Buenos Aires, Narciso Marull Torrent maintained commercial ties with the British.
On October 27, 1807, Craigie and twelve associates were given the authority to build the Canal Bridge.
Conversion "From the Devonshire House monthly meeting minutes Joseph's wife Eizabeth Peeters had transferred her Friends' Membership from London to Cornwall but there was no mention of Joseph, although he appeared in these minutes in the early 1790s.
David and Susan had nine children: David, Susan (who later became the sister-in-law to John Davis), Samuel, Mary, Jacob Morton, Sophia, William Brown, John, and Martha.
She seems to have taken these as important parts of her life, but she no less thought women deserved a place in the realm of science.
He became an apothecary in London where he traded at the sign of the Grasshopper in Cheapside until he succeeded to the family estates on the death of his brother in 1651.
These gardens had been started in 1596 and designed by Besler's colleague, Joachim Camerarius the Younger (1534–1598), a physician and botanist.
After years of good health, he began to suffer intense flare-ups of gout before dying at his home in London in 1799.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl (~27) married Sarah Perry (~22) (daughter of Philip Perry and Elizabeth Flemming; sister of John Perry Sr and aunt of John Perry, shipwrights of Blackwall Yard) at St Andrew Undershaft, City of London, on 19 Nov 1745.
After witnesses were interviewed and depositions given, the House of Representative voted that Myers was the winner of the election.
He made in total six sea voyages, including to South America and India, and attempted a circumnavigation of Earth.
He conducted studies of alkaline salts in plants, on the combustion of chalk and argued against the possibility of transmutation of elements.
Jakob Benjamin Fischer (13 October 1731 – 25 July 1793) was a Baltic German naturalist and apothecary.
Craigie was also fundamental in convincing Middlesex County authorities to move the Middlesex County Courthouse (Massachusetts) from Harvard Square to a new Charles Bulfinch-designed building in East Cambridge.
Dante took part in several attempts by the White Guelphs to regain power, but these failed due to treachery.
For his work in endowing the professorship, Sherard was granted a doctorate in medicine by the university in 1731.
In Garnero's response, he refers to Erculiani's arguments as "gifts from the Holy Spirit" which further protects her from trouble due to her actual views.
The number of labours which he attended amounted to rather more than ten thousand; in one year alone he attended 362.
Life Joachim Christian Timm, the son of tobacconist Matthias Ernst Timm (1704–1779), was born in Wangerin in Farther Pomerania, Prussia (now in Poland) and attended school there.
2012: Bibliography of the entomological literature from the beginning until 1863 : online database – version 1.0 – Senckenberg Deutsches Entomologisches Institut.
Britain was involved in the Seven Years' War and they were asking him not to print a list of ships sailing from the port.
He is also in the second installment, still as a Mitama, but given randomly by slaying a higher leveled Oni.
Life Haslam was born in London, and trained as an apothecary at the United Borough Hospitals, and (briefly) in Edinburgh where he attended medical classes in 1785 and 1786.
Gideon Delaune, Robert Johnstone, and the Lombard Street goldsmith William Terry were executors of the goldsmith George Heriot, who made a bequest to found a school in Edinburgh now known as George Heriot's School.
He was re-elected MP for Westminster in November 1640 for the Long Parliament and sat until he was excluded under Pride's Purge in 1648.
In November 1602 he was paid £388 Scots for "drugs, oils, unguents, medicaments, and plasters" supplied to the king.
Uebersicht der Mecklenburgischen Moose nach alphábetischer Ordnung, 1809 – Survey of mosses from Mecklenburg in alphabetical order.
The medical part of his library was reputed to be the largest collection of books on physic yet made in England.
He inherited property in Yoxhall and purchased a malthouse and inn at Stafford and his profession at the time of death was recorded as "maltster".
The natural history cabinet was also maintained and managed by the son along with the Leipzig physician Johann Ernst Hebenstreit.
A selection in four volumes was published by Richard Bradley in 1727–8, with the title A Catalogue of all sorts of Earths, the Art of Draining, of Brewing, of all sorts of Husbandry.
He never married and was found dead around 2 April 1718 (incorrectly noted as 20 April in some sources) after a long illness.
He was appointed apothecary to James VI of Scotland on 7 February 1577 with an annual pension of £50 Scots.
Schaw appears to have been a physician serving the women of the court, and was mentioned in William Dunbar's poem Of a Dance in the Quenis Chamber.
Dante Alighieri (Italian: [ˈdante aliˈɡjɛːri]; most likely baptized Durante di Alighiero degli Alighieri; c.
Some verses of the Paradiso section of the Divine Comedy also provide a possible clue that he was born under the sign of Gemini: "As I revolved with the eternal twins, I saw revealed, from hills to river outlets, the threshing-floor that makes us so ferocious" (XXII 151–154).
He seems to have sold books, missals, and offertory candles to the king, although similar books were also provided by a man called by "John Foular".
He became a freeman of the Society of Apothecaries on 6 October 1685, enabling him to practice his profession in London.
During 1729 Geoffroy used a method from Wilhelm Homberg “to determine the strength of vinegar by adding small amounts of potassium”, and this went to be the first ever titration recorded.
The pharmacy is still part of Merck KGaA, but the original building was destroyed during World War II in the bombing campaigns, and therefore it is a new construction.
He is best remembered for his medical compendium Pharmacopée royale galénique et chymyque published in 1676 (later translated into Latin version Pharmacopoeus Regius, and English Royal Pharmacopoea in 1678.) Charas grew up and trained in apothecary in Orange.
In September 1595 MacCartney wrote to Bowes about the Catholic earls, with the news that Elizabeth Douglas, Countess of Erroll was now allowed by James VI to rebuild Old Slains Castle, and the Earl of Huntly would be able to do the same at Huntly Castle if stonemasons were available.
For one of the London properties, he commissioned a builder in October 1794, to build a house for him at the South West corner of South Street near Finsbury Square, to be completed by August 1795.
Landucci married a woman named Salvestra at the age of thirty, and used his wife's dowry to open a new shop.
At the 1710 British general election he was mixed up in a double return and waived his right of election on 8 December 1710.
After inheriting an estate at the age of 62, he retired there and was appointed a deputy lieutenant of Devonshire in 1831.
Edinburgh burgh hosted a banquet for the queen's brother, Ulrik, Duke of Holstein, on 2 May 1598 at the house of Ninian MacMorran at Riddle's court.
External links Ownership inscription of Hugh Morgan WorldCat References Sources Bradford, Charles Angell (1939).
In 1819 he was appointed teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium, later adding the titles Medizinalrat and Professor.
In the historical fantasy novel Teito Monogatari by Hiroshi Aramata the protagonist Yasunori Kato claims to be a descendant of En no Gyōja.
From 1706 he worked at this father's pharmacy in Naumburg and from 1710 he went back to Leipzig and worked with his brother.
One of his predecessors at the Scottish court was John Mosman, who worked for James IV and Margaret Tudor.
Having a considerable knowledge of botany, he devoted himself especially to the study of the essential oils in plants.
John White Abbott (13 May 1763 – 1851) was an English surgeon and apothecary in Exeter, remembered as a keen amateur painter in both watercolour and oils.
Biography Birth and Education Neumann was born at Zullichau, in the Electorate of Brandenburg, July 11, 1683.
The Apothecary to the Household was originally responsible for providing medicine to members of the Royal Household; a separate officer, the Apothecary to the Person, ministered to the Sovereign.
De vulgari eloquentia ("On the Eloquence in the Vernacular") is a treatise on vernacular literature, partly inspired by the Razos de trobar of Raimon Vidal de Bezaudun.
He was among the first chemists, along with Samuel Cottereau du Clos, to serve in the French Academy of Sciences at the time of its founding in 1666, chosen by Jean-Baptiste Colbert on behalf of Louis XIV.
He began his career as personal attendant to Richard Neile, Bishop of Winchester (1628–31) and later Archbishop of York (1631–40), a close associate of William Laud in the Star Chamber and elsewhere.
Dillenius' herbarium specimens from Eltham are preserved in the herbarium of the Oxford Botanical Garden.
The last payment recorded to Foular was in December 1512 for a year's supply of "powder, spicery, apothecary, and materials for the King and Queen".
He was listed in a manuscript of "Medical Men in the American Revolution" deposited in the Library of Congress by Dr.
On November 12, Myers contested the election on the grounds that several wards in the city of Philadelphia submitted false election results.
Philippe Sylvestre Dufour (born Manosque 1622, died Vevey (Canton de Vaud) 1687) was a French Protestant apothecary, banker, collector, and writer based in Lyon.
1 [2]; Vol.2 [3] Contributions to the Transactions of the Royal Society(London) Disquisitio de camphora.
References External links Ottonis Tachenij Hippocrates chimicus, per ignem & aquam methodo inaudita nouissimi salis viperini antiquissima fundamenta ostendens (1697) Biography
John Browne or Brown (died 1735) was an English chemist, elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1721.
James IV was an enthusiastic alchemist and maintained furnaces at Stirling Castle and Holyrood Palace in an attempt to make the fifth element, the "quinta essentia".
Scientists working there at the time include Evangelista Torricelli, Vincenzo Viviani and Giovanni Alfonso Borelli.
Opus posthumum, latinitate donatum, notisque & observationibus illustratum, à Frederico Ruyschio & Francisco Kiggelario.
There is an entry in the 1794 directory of London and Westminster and the borough of Southwark – James & Were – British Wine Manufacturers, Finsbury Place.
On 10 February 1594 he was appointed to attend Anne of Denmark at Stirling Castle when she gave birth to Prince Henry, with the doctors Martin Schöner, Gilbert Moncreiff, and the surgeon Gilbert Primrose.
In 1761 Hudson was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and in the following year the first edition of his Flora Anglica appeared, which, according to Pulteney and J.
Narciso Marull (1747-c.1820) was a Spanish apothecary and merchant, who served as Asentista de Medicina in the Real Audiencia of Buenos Aires.
He became famous for publishing compendiums of medication formulas, which played vital roles in the development of modern pharmacy and chemistry.
External links Works by John Haslam at Project Gutenberg Works by or about John Haslam at the Internet Archive Burkhart Brückner, Robin Pape: Biography of John Haslam in: Biographical Archive of Psychiatry (BIAPSY).
In July 1504 Foular sent medicinal spices including pepper, cinnamon, "cubebarum", and "galiga", with glass urinals, to Margaret Tudor at Stirling Castle.
Kirkton records that even in Dumfries, at the beginning of the Pentlands Rising, the insurgents drank the king's health and M'Crie, over about 8 pages, argues repeatedly that although they rose in arms, they were not rebels.
David Jackson (1747 – September 17, 1801) was an American apothecary and physician from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
His various learned works in Latin and Dutch deal with plants, with Mennonite religious issues and with different historical themes, contemporary, biblical and literary.
Scholar Suzanne Amigues suggested that this Aristophilus was the same person as the pharmakopōlēs named "Aristobulus" described by Aeschines in his Against Ctesiphon, father of the youth Aristion of Plataea who lived for a time in the house of the statesman Demosthenes.
The Landuccis had twelve children together, and Luca remained at this location until his death in 1516.
In 1640 Joseph Barsalou was asked to treat Antonio Barberini, nephew of Pope Urban VIII and the Legate of Avignon who suffered from a fever on a visit to Avignon in the south of France.
He was a great benefactor to the Apothecaries' Company, having been ‘a principal means for the procuring of the said company to be made a corporation,’ and for the purchase of Apothecaries' Hall, where a massive marble bust of him is preserved.
The exterior decorations and embellishments are a vernacular commingling of various styles, including Palladian revival entrance, wood trim, and clapboard cladding, and Italianate tripartite facade of display windows flanking the entrance and separated by pilasters.
Furthermore, he recommended that a delegation should be formed with the aim of teaching those who visited Virginia the origin of the popular revolt, and that Miller's government was to be restored.
The men in Hamilton’s circle had insider knowledge of his plan for the new federal government to assume the war debts of the states, thereby making state debt certificates a better bet.
When the French Academy of Sciences was founded in 1666, Jean-Baptiste Colbert was assigned by Louis XIV to select members and he appointed Samuel Cottereau du Clos and Claude Bourdelin who were both associated with medicine.
He became known as one of the first in England to adopt the practice of inoculation against smallpox.
The censure was confirmed at a subsequent meeting, and a vote of thanks passed to the author of a pamphlet entitled Lucas Detected, conjectured to have been Edmund Burke, at that time a student at Trinity College.
Robert Levet (1705–1782), a Yorkshireman who became a Parisian waiter, then garnered some training as an apothecary and moved to London, was eulogised by the poet Samuel Johnson, with whom Levet shared a friendship of thirty-six years, in Johnson's poem "On the Death of Dr.
He was a member of several secret political societies, including the London Corresponding Society and the Society for Constitutional Information.
Biography Benjamin Say was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to Thomas (1709–1796) and Rebekah Atkinson Budd Say (1716–1795), He married Ann Bartram Bonsall (1759–1793) on Oct.
He served in the American Revolutionary War, and was a fellow of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, of which he was one of the founders in 1787, and was treasurer from 1791 to 1809.
Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte des ersten pharmazeutischen Lehrers am Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum in Berlin.(A contribution to the history of the first pharmaceutical professor at the Berlin Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum.) Dissertation, University of Berlin, 1938.
Weinmann employed the youthful Georg Dionysius Ehret as illustrator, who used a newly developed printing process involving mezzotint, which allowed greater detail and shading, and was finished by hand-colouring.
German's, Cornwall, privately printed London, 1872 Joseph and Elizabeth are mentioned on the chart and on the pages 12/13 (Fox of Falmouth) and 19 (Debell of Looe).
He supplied materials to the alchemists in January 1508 and in January 1513 was given a crown weight in gold to the quintessence.
Luca Landucci (1436–1516) was an Italian apothecary from Florence, best known as the writer of a diary which later became an important primary source about the history of Florence.
Angibaud left France in 1681, with his wife and three children, moving to London to avoid religious persecution, only a few years before the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685.
"An account of the remedy for the stone, lately published in England, according to an act of Parliament, assigning a reward of 5000 [pounds] to the discoverer" (with Sauveur François Morand); published in English, 1741.
Upon Camerarius' death in 1598, Besler had the remainder of Camerarius' plants moved to Eichstätt and carried on the work of planting and supervision.
A group of American botanists developed an alternative set of rules, the Rochester Code, which they proposed in 1892 as an alternative to the International Rules.
He was paid in December 1507 for the "distillation of waters" and aqua vitae for the King and Queen over the year, and for English apothecary books supplied to the royal household.
Petiver received many specimens, seeds and much other material from overseas correspondents including Samuel Browne and Edward Bulkley in Madras, Jezreel Jones in Barbary, and the Czech Jesuit Georg Joseph Kamel in Manila.
Botanisches Findbuch Between about 1810 and 1829 Ziz compiled a 170‑page handwritten "botanical notebook" (Findbuch) covering the wild plants of Rheinhessen, the Rheingau and the Lower Nahe.
In addition to dried herbs, the store carries spices, mixers, incense, bath products, tarot cards, and all-natural remedies.
Works About 1798 he published Observations on the Tussis Convulsiva, or Hoopping-cough, as read at the Lyceum Medicum Londinense.
But unfortunate experiences with his patients drew his attention to food and drug adulteration, which became the major preoccupation of his life.
He was a supporter of Anne Boleyn, then Marchioness or Marquess of Pembroke, who he describes as the "most onerabyll lady Marcas of Penbroke".
A copy of a household roll of the Scottish court made around 1507 names him and John Mosman as the court "pottingaris".
It is questionable whether he was fully qualified as a physician; and Charles Roach Smith wrote that his political advocacy ruined his professional prospects.
His second journey was with Daniel de La Touche, Lord of La Ravardière, and started in January 1604 and lasted until May; it carried him across the Atlantic Ocean via Lanzarote and Cape Verde to the mouth of the Amazon River, and further along the coast of South America to the Caribbean.
Phytanthoza iconographia is highly regarded for the quality of its colour plates, and the accuracy of its images compared with previous herbals.
John Clavie or Clavee (died 1607) was a Scottish apothecary who worked for James VI and I and the royal family.
Death and legacy Chase died without issue on 23 June 1721 leaving his estate to his widow and Dr Stephen Chase, the eldest son of his cousin, also Stephen Chase.
Barclay also sold sugar confectionery, the family of William Douglas of Lochleven bought boxes of wet and dry confections.
In the middle of the chancel: Dr Wm Rosewell of Guildford; In ye south side Col Wm Rosewell of London ye Queen’s Apothecary and ye Dr’s father’.
His father's patent granted the reversion of the office to Chase himself, and after his father's death in 1690, Chase became court apothecary to William III in June 1690, at an annual salary of £115, with an annual allowance of £127 and lodgings in Whitehall.
He also engaged in studies of the natural environment of present-day Latvia, and produced several works on the nature of Latvia in which he also referred to the native Latvian names of plants and animals.
Why bases for neutral salts were called bases The modern meaning of the word "base" and its general introduction into the chemical vocabulary are usually attributed to Rouelle, who used the term "Base" in a memoir on salts written in 1754 (see The Origin of the Term "Base" by William B.
Notably, he cured the incapacitated hands of a dyer's apprentice thereby earning himself an election to the Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce in May 1761.
Slave trade Edward Parr continued his father's business as an apothecary and general merchant in Castle Street, Liverpool.
Rumor says, "Ozunu was able to manipulate demonic spirits, making them draw water and gather firewood.
Fox was doctor to a merchant ship's Captain, Christopher Buckingham, and to his wife, Thorazine, who lived in Flushing.
Between 1644 and 1649 Barsalou practiced in Florence, attending to the Grand Duke Ferdinando II de' Medici.
The restoration was consistent with early apothecaries in Ontario, but did not capture the intent of Spafford, who became owner of the drugstore in 1852, to modernize the facility and differentiate it from his competitors.
Upon retiring from his business in Mark Lane in the 1720s, he had already acquired an ample fortune.
Parkinson was a strong advocate for the underprivileged, and an outspoken critic of the Pitt government.
In 1703 he became a master apothecary, and in 1704/05 took scientific excursions throughout southern France.
However, Garencières unknowingly used a fake edition of Nostradamus’s work, printed in 1649, which contained quatrains that were forged in order to discredit and foretell the downfall of Cardinal Jules Mazarin, prime minister of France.
Unfortunately, the Queen was no better at paying her servants than was the King as William had to again seek funding from the Treasury for the perfumes he had made for Catherine's private chapel.
James MacCartney was a Scottish medical practitioner and apothecary in Edinburgh in the 1590s who collected information for the English diplomat Robert Bowes.
Later, the company also started providing therapeutic drugs and chemicals such as acids, elixirs, tinctures, and essential oils.
In the same year he published an edition of the Loimologia of Nathaniel Hodges, and a collection of ‘Medico-physical Essays’ on ague, fevers, gout, leprosy, king's evil, and other diseases.
After completing his education, he started working for a chemist and was also believed to have provided medical advice and even occasional surgery and midwifery.
His ‘English Dispensatory’ (1721), of which a fourth edition appeared in 1722 and a twelfth in 1749, contains a complete account of the materia medica and of therapeutics, and many of the prescriptions contained in it were popular.
Guillaume François Rouelle (French pronunciation: [ɡijom fʁɑ̃swa ʁwɛl]; 15 September 1703 – 3 August 1770) was a French chemist and apothecary.
Music In time, Sherard came into contact with Wriothesley Russell, 2nd Duke of Bedford through his brother, who had once served as a tutor in Russell's family.
His work was in part to argue against an Italian zoologist Francisco Redi, who published Osservazioni intorno alle vipere (Observations about the vipers) in 1664.
The descriptions for plates 1-73 were provided by Johann Georg Nicolaus Dieterichs (1681–1737), for plates 76-525 by Ludwig Michael Dieterichs (1716–1769) and Ambrosius Karl Bieler.
He justified his conduct in An Address to the Lord Mayor and Citizens of Dublin, and replied to further censure in A Second Address to the Lord Mayor.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Stephen, Leslie, ed.
During this time he started his scientific work, which later became the basis for the discovery of morphine.
Other examples of goods one could purchase at an apothecary shop include herbs, fruits, precious oils, resins and perfume musk.
Claude Joseph Geoffroy (8 August 1685 in Paris – 9 March 1752 in Paris) was the brother of Étienne François Geoffroy.
Dr Woodward's Shield, also now in the British Museum, is now recognised as a classicising French Renaissance buckler of the mid-16th century, perhaps sold from the Royal Armouries of Charles II, but was thought by Woodward and others to be an original Roman work.
Sherard may have helped premiere the work himself, performing on the violin alongside the Duke's two Italian chamber musicians, cellist Nicola Francesco Haym and violinist Nicola Cosimi.
In 1684, he acquired his estate in Little Marlow and built Westhorpe House there during Queen Anne's reign.
Biography Samuel More was born in Westminster, England, the fifth and third surviving child of Samuel More (1682–1731), a schoolmaster from a family of distinguished writing masters, and his wife, Mary Berry (1690–1744) of Kensington.
From the 1820s to 1840, Starkwather and Brown advertised in the Colonial Advocate the availability of garden seeds "of all descriptions" collected by the Shakers of New Lebanon in New York.
Lacking funds to make the purchase when Field died the following year, in December 1965 the partners secured a promise from James Auld, the provincial Minister of Tourism and Information, that the provincial ministry would acquire the property, enabling the Niagara Foundation to exercise its option.
By profession he was a surgeon and apothecary, having been trained by William North, a member of the Royal College of Surgeons practising at Chelsea.
An introduction to the study of fossil organic remains; especially those found in the British strata: intended to aid the student in his inquiries respecting the nature of fossils, and their connection with the formation of the earth.
Dante claimed that his family descended from the ancient Romans (Inferno, XV, 76), but the earliest relative he could mention by name was his great-great-grandfather Cacciaguida degli Elisei (Paradiso, XV, 135), born no earlier than about 1100.
In 1754 he introduced the concept of a base into chemistry as a substance which reacts with an acid to form a salt.
He had given some attention to botany before 1687, the date of a commonplace book, but his help is first acknowledged by John Ray in 1688 in the second volume of the Historia Plantarum.
Biography Narciso Marull was born in Cassà de la Selva (Catalonia), son of Juan Manuel Marull and Isabel Torrent.
Joseph Barsalou built on his traditional knowledge of herbs with an introduction to medicine and philosophy reading Galen, Aristotle and Pythagoras.
After operating the business for 46 years, Paffard sold it in 1898 to his apprentice John DeWolfe Randall.
He was educated at Kendal grammar school, Hudson was subsequently apprenticed to an apothecary in London.
28 September 1628 – 9 February 1698) was an English apothecary, astrologer and physician, known for his large medical library.
He published an account of his travels in 1617, Voyages en Afrique, Asie, Indes orientales et occidentales.
Theophilus de Garencières (1610–1680) was a French apothecary who spent most of his life practising in England.
He discovered the presence of magnesia in sea-water, and researched the manufacture of Prussian blue (invented by Johann Jacob Diesbach, in 1706), publishing on these topics in the Philosophical Transactions.
Biography Merriman was born on 29 December 1731 at Marlborough, Wiltshire, was third son of Nathaniel Merriman, grocer there, by his wife Elizabeth Hawkes.
Watercolours of 420 plants were prepared during the period 1686–1709 by a number of artists, mainly Johan and Maria Moninckx, with minor contributions from Helena Herolt and Alida Withoos.
In 1788 he published his work Florae megapolitanae Prodromus, which he based on the system of the Swedish botanist Linnaeus.
Early life and career Johann Baptist Ziz was born on 8 October 1779 in Mainz, the eldest son of the wine merchant Melchior Ziz and Anna Maria Froelich.
One of his principles is: "Wherever nature has fixed a pleasure, we may take it for granted she there enjoins a duty; and something is to be done either for the individual or for the species".
Although Ziz's original herbarium perished in 1944, his Findbuch remains a primary source for the early 19th‑century flora of Hesse.
Tenzing Momo also claims to have the largest selection in town of essential oils as well as vast rows of medicinal herbs." Reception Connie McDougall of The Seattle Times called the shop "exotic as they come ...
In 1690, he published a plant catalogue of this garden under the title "Horti Beaumontiani: Exoticarum Plantarum Catalogus ...".
A flint handaxe was found nearby, now famous as the Gray's Inn Lane handaxe and on display in the British Museum's Enlightenment Gallery.
He established his business on St Martin's Lane, selling in particular his Pastilles de Blois made from licorice.
After schooling in French‑occupied Mainz, he served his pharmacy apprenticeship at the Pfau‑Apotheke under Philipp Martin Baymer, completing his journeyman's examination in 1799.
Through his travels in the south of France he became acquainted with Philippe Jacques de Maussac, President of the Court of Montpellier.
The academy consisting of fifteen members would meet twice a week, Tuesdays for mathematics and Saturdays for physics.
He says those involved in the rising regarded it as "sinless self-defence" and they were wanting justice rather than seeking to overthrow the king or his government.
What is known of his early life is that he settled in Regensburg, or Ratisbon as it was known in 1710, and found work as the assistant of an apothecary.
In James Gillray's caricature of the public meeting held at Copenhagen Fields on 12 November 1795, Jones is shown on the hustings to the left; and at the other meetings of that body he was one of the chief declaimers.
Although some described Levet as a quack, Johnson and his biographer observed that while working as a waiter in a Parisian coffeehouse, the young Yorkshireman's habit of eavesdropping on conversations of physicians had been noted, and some had taken a collection to get Levet some training.
Soon thereafter he became a traveling apothecary for the king of Prussia, Frederick I, and he continued in this capacity until 1711.
It was called "Canal Bridge" because one-third of the shares were to be held by the individual proprietors of the Middlesex Canal Corporation, but it soon came to be familiarly called "Craigie's Bridge." The original bridge was completed and opened for travel in August, 1809.
He was a member of the Pennsylvania Prison Society and president of the Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Mocquet had the intention of making a circumnavigation of the globe, but he only reached the south of Spain before he had to abort his efforts and returned to Paris.
He himself was not very proficient in Latin although he was a member of several scholarly societies and an educated gentleman.
In her will written in 1700, Phillipa Rosewell directs that her body be buried in Sunbury Church in the same grave as her late husband.
He attended the College of Philadelphia in an institution now named University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, graduating in first class of its medical department in 1768 with a degree in medicine.
Life He was the son of Joseph Fox the elder, and his wife Elizabeth Hingston; and the brother of Edward Long Fox.
Family Source: Joseph Fox (1758–1832) was the son of Joseph Fox (1729–1785) and Elisabeth Hingston (1733–1792).
Weinmann was greatly respected for his writings on medicinal plants and herbs, and Phytanthoza iconographia is recognised as the first important botanical work to use colour engraved prints.
He began to write, among his first works in 1859 being a poem lamenting the death of Alexander von Humboldt.
Major Rosewell received an injury to his thigh in early 1646 when leading an attack against occupying forces.
In 1312, Henry assaulted Florence and defeated the Black Guelphs, but there is no evidence that Dante was involved.
He was subsequently created a doctor of medicine by the University of Aberdeen on 17 September 1816.
Charas was inducted as member of the Académie des sciences (the French Academy of Sciences) in 1692 at the age of 73.
Parr and John Welch owned a slave-ship called Briton and in 1762 it was sent on a slave voyage to the Kingdom of Whydah in West Africa.
Between 1863 and 1866, he worked as clerk in a Berlin business and traveled through central Europe and Italy.
This can be seen in Revisio generum plantarum which consists largely of exhaustive lists of species and entire genera which he proposed were to be moved.
It is possible that during his lifetime he was known as Gottfried Gaertner, and that "Philipp" was added after his death.
The epithet megapolitania here refers to Mecklenburg, which was then often referred to by the Greek equivalent megapolis.
Besler established a pharmacy, Zum Marienbild, at Nuremberg's Hay Market in 1589, and developed his own botanical garden and collection of specimens, for which he became well known.
Allen joined the Moravians and served as a teacher in Bethlehem and as superintendent of the Single Sisters' House in Nazareth.
This allowed her to become one of the first women philosophers to devote a book "to questions of natural philosophy and [promote] her own original theories." See also apothecary Anna Jagiellon References Bibliography Carinci, Eleonora.
His father's alcoholism and ill health kept him from training Arnold in the family mercantile business, but his mother's family connections secured an apprenticeship for him with her cousins Daniel and Joshua Lathrop, who operated a successful apothecary and general merchandise trade in Norwich.
For ten years he was also an investor in the adjoining mine of Pednandrea, which was worked for both tin and copper.
Much of the material was taken directly from the collections of Thomas Tonkin and William Gwavas, as acknowledged in the preface.
A celebrated shield, bought by Conyers from a London ironmonger, was sold after his death by one of his daughters to John Woodward.
Cromwell encouraged Lyst and a priest at Greenwich, John Lawrence, as malcontents who could build support for the divorce of Henry VIII.
Now preserved in the Stadtbibliothek Mainz (Hs III 101), it is organised in Linnaean classes I–XXIII, with each genus and species numbered consecutively.
He collaborated with Frederik Ruysch on the first volume of Jan Commelijn's "Horti Medici Amstelodamensis Rariorum" which appeared in 1697 and dealt mainly with plants from the East and West Indies.
It is through his friendship with the Scaliger family that Joseph Barsalou gained access to the library of Julius Caesar Scaliger and his son Joseph Justus Scaliger.
Onomatologia curiosa, artificiosa et magica, oder natürliches Zauber-Lexicon, in welchem vieles Nützliche und Angenehme aus der Naturgeschichte, Naturlehre und natürlichen Magie nach alphabetischer Ordnung vorgetragen worden.
Martin's Lane and was famously depicted by William Hogarth in a painting in the series, A Harlot's Progress.
He was intimate with the botanists of his time: Ray, Leonard Plukenet, James Petiver, and Hans Sloane.
In 1659, he moved to Paris, from where he became acquainted with a Dutch diplomat Constantijn Huygens and his son, the scientist Christiaan Huygens (whom he treated from serious illness), and with the English physician and philosopher John Locke.
A letter of June 1596 mentioned a possible border raid near Carlisle and that Anne of Denmark, who was now pregnant, was moving to Dunfermline Palace, at the suggestion of the Octavians, a group of financial administrators with some overlap with her council.
While the election was still pending, the death of Alderman Nathaniel Pearson in May 1749 caused a second vacancy in the representation, and Lucas and La Touche became partly reconciled in opposing Cooke and the second aldermanic candidate, Charles Burton.
The two often supped together, and despite their different backgrounds seemed to enjoy each other's company.
Say graduated from the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia in 1780 and practiced in that city.
Elizabeth Gooking Greenleaf (November 11, 1681 – November 11, 1762) was the first female apothecary in the Thirteen Colonies.
Mosman supplied sweetened and spiced "Hippocras" wine at the Edinburgh wedding of James IV and Margaret Tudor at Holyrood Palace, at a cost of 18 Scottish shillings.
Due to his mythical status as a mountain saint, he was believed to possess many supernatural powers.
She was one of 17 women to be honored by the American Pharmacists Association in 2012, for "contributions to the profession and advancement of women in pharmacy." See also Susan Hayhurst Elizabeth Marshall (pharmacist) Maria Dauerer == References ==
He was first educated in music by his father, but being orphaned at age 12, he apprenticed to his godfather, the apothecary, Johannes Romke.
His father John Browne of London was an apothecary, and Browne joined the Society of Apothecaries in 1697.
However, in 1647 he lodged a complaint with the Committee for Compounding with Delinquents that a Thomas Rosewell, who had held the estate during sequestration, had refused to give up possession of 3 acres in Haskin (Haskey) Moor, (North Curry), Somerset.
Mosman was paid 14 shillings for his travelling expenses to Edinburgh "to mak potingary for Mastres Barleis arme." Mosman was supplied with glass jugs and urinals on 13 September 1505.
At the same time he sent medicines according to a recipe provided by Master William Baillie, and sent fine green ginger and citron comfits to the queen.
Despite his financial worries with the Queen, his new medical and professional positions and other remunerative civic posts, restored his personal fortune.
He assigned chemical symbols to the seven metals corresponding to the known celestial bodies at the time, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, and Moon respectively.
Chemistry Charas' Pharmacopée royale contains one of the earliest comprehensive classification of chemical elements and compounds, which can be regarded as the forerunner of chemical symbols and periodic table.
He edited the botanical collection from his world voyage encompassing 7,700 specimens in Berlin and Kew Gardens.
At the instigation of the author of a monograph on Timmia, Guy Brassard, a mountain on the Arctic Ellesmere Island was named "Mount Timmia" in honour of Timm.
Houghton first noticed the potato plant as an agricultural vegetable, and that turnips were eaten by sheep.
In the early modern period, it was customary for the wives of merchants to learn their husbands' trade, as they played an integral role in the running of family businesses.
He purchased two manors in Leicestershire and a property at Eltham in Kent, near London, where he largely resided.
During the Great Plague, Garencières claimed to have a secret cure, and that nineteen of the twenty patients he had attended had recovered.
His work on general chemistry was translated into English and published as "A general system of chemistry : theoretical and practical.
Later life At the Westminster elections of 1818 and 1820 he exerted himself, but he took little further part in politics.
Armeston was the son of Thomas Armeston (died 1640) of Burbage and his wife Anne Replingham, daughter of Edward Replingham of Warwickshire.
To Philosophical Transactions he contributed in 1699 "A Discourse of Coffee" and "The Conclusion of the Protestant States of the Empire, of the 23d of Sept.
When that monarch determined in 1617 to incorporate the Society of Apothecaries, 114 apothecaries, being his majesty's ‘natural subjects,’ were nominated as members.
Although he later retrained as a physician, Haslam was dismissed and financially ruined, and he was forced to sell his entire library.
took over his father's apothecary, while Samuel became a physician and for thirty years was a professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania.
Memoire dans lequel on examine si l'huile d'olive est un spécifique contre la morsure des viperes, 1737 (with François-Joseph Hunauld).
Conyers's notes on his discoveries are now in the British Library as Sloane manuscripts Ms 959 and Harley manuscripts Ms 5953.
Post-war period During and immediately after his time with the army, Craigie sold drugs and medicines wholesale with a partner in New York City.
The pursuing American army included the Marquis de Lafayette, who was under orders from Washington to hang Arnold summarily if he was captured.
References External links Cotterau du Clos, Samuel (1675) Observations sur les eaux minerales de plusieurs provinces de France.
In the 17th century, the only women pharmacists where widows who inherited their license from their late husbands.
21, June 1995 (in German) Frahm, Jan-Peter & Eggers, Jens (2001), Lexikon deutschsprachiger Bryologen (in German), Norderstedt: Books on Demand GmbH (self-published), pp.
In 1753 he married one of the daughters and coheiresses of William Dance, surgeon, of Marlborough, and by her, who died in 1780, he had fourteen children; of these one alone, Ann, wife of his nephew Samuel Merriman, survived him.
In the 1960s, it was purchased by the Niagara Foundation, which targeted the building and its contents for preservation.
Legacy "The town of Redford, in Clinton County, in the north-east corner of the State of New York, was named for him." References Works Committee on the Subject of Pauperism and a House of Industry (1821).
1695 – 1788) who was apothecary to King George I and George II, and was apothecary general to the British army.
He may have supplied blue azurite in three grades to the king's painter working at Stirling in July 1506.
In 2009, Alexander Kraft established that it was Caspar Neumann who conveyed the secret formula for preparing the first synthetic pigment, Prussian blue, to the Royal Society in England in 1723.
Margaret Douglas, Countess of Bothwell, whose husband Francis Stewart, 5th Earl of Bothwell was a rebel, had been shown some favour by the king at Hamilton Palace.
Clavie was appointed an apothecary in ordinary to King James in March 1603, and appointed to serve Anne of Denmark, Prince Henry and the other royal children on 19 July.
Graham served his apprenticeship in Scotland, from which country he hailed, and was admitted as a "foreign brother" of the Society of Apothecaries on 14 September 1698.
He was the owner of the first drugstore in Buenos Aires, his establishment was known as "Botica del Colegio", located in the streets Santísima Trinidad y San Carlos (current Bolívar and Alsina) Monserrat, was founded by his uncle Francisco Marull in 1777.
In the religion Shugendō In folk religion, En no Ozunu is traditionally held to be the founder of Shugendō, a syncretic religion incorporating aspects of Taoism, Shinto, esoteric Buddhism (especially Shingon Mikkyō and the Tendai sect) and traditional Japanese shamanism.
Alfred Jones 31 January 1820 – 11 October 1823: Richard Walker 31 January 1820 – 26 June 1830: John Nussey 1824 – bef.
Charles Lucas (16 September 1713 – 4 November 1771) was an Anglo-Irish apothecary, physician and politician.
On 28 February 1781 he was elected to the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, and in 1786, he was elected to the American Philosophical Society.
2 April 1718) was a London apothecary, a fellow of the Royal Society as well as London's informal Temple Coffee House Botany Club, famous for his specimen collections in which he traded and study of botany and entomology.
In 1809, Marull was involved in Mutiny of Álzaga, he was imprisoned released and released after paying a fine of 3,000 pesos.
Frewen's argument was that many persons ordinarily escape smallpox "who had been supposed to be in the greatest danger of taking it", and that the æthiops mineral was irrelevant.
Eleonore of Württemberg (also called Eleanore of Hesse-Damstadt, 1552 – 1618) was a German noblewoman who published a treatise of medicinal remedies.
Since the majority of women in this era were denied access to university training, apprenticeship was one way to acquire the skills needed to practice.
[5] Alexander Chalmers: General Biographical Dictionary.[6] Noretta Koertge: Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography.
Miller travelled to London to complain to the Lords Proprietors, the Commissioners of Customs, and the Privy Council about the events that had happened.
A medication included in his formulary was theriac which was first made popular by the Greeks as an antidote to animal bites and disseminated over the Silk Route.
Biography Besler was born in Nuremberg, Holy Roman Empire on February 13 1561, the son of Michael Besler.
Mosman looked after four African people, known as the "More lasses" and probably including Ellen More, at North Queensferry and Inverkeithing.
Court apothecary Chase was a Freeman of the Apothecaries’ Company and was its Master from June 1688 to September 1689.
Just as a great wine shop will help you more and more as they get to know your tastes, so will Tenzing Momo with what ails or occupies you.
Engel-Apotheke Friedrich Jacob Merck in the 17th century Heinrich Emanuel Merck (1794–1855) from 1816–c.1855 See also Merck family Emanuel Merck Lectureship == References ==
The feeling of the house ran strongly against him, although the people of Dublin were hotly in his favour.
After some studies in theology and language, he shifted to medicine and chemistry at Tübingen, then Altdorf and Wittenberg.
He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of London, and also the father of William Henry, the chemist who formulated Henry's Law.
Letters were to be passed through the women's circle that Arnold's wife was a part of, but only she would be aware that some letters contained instructions that were to be passed on to André, written in invisible ink, using Stansbury as the courier.
In this paper, which was an extension of an earlier memoir on the same subject written in 1744, Rouelle pointed out that the number of known salts had increased significantly during the 17th and early 18th centuries.
The bishop was an enthusiastic botanist who derived great pleasure from his garden, which rivaled Hortus Botanicus Leiden among early European botanical gardens outside Italy.
While there, he visited Berlin and made connections that ultimately resulted in his appointment as the Royal Court Apothecary after he completed his European travels in 1719.
From left to right in the picture are Thomas, born 1740 and dressed in skirts as was typical for small boys until they were breeched, Henrietta, Anna Maria and Richard.
On November 8, 1810, the English schooner "Alarm" arrived in the Port of Buenos Aires from Guernsey, bringing goods that included wine and gin to the consignment of Narciso Marull.
Cysat published works about the history and folklore of Lucerne, as well as a number of theatrical plays, and a book about (then-recently discovered) Japan.
The formula for theriac included as many as 600 separate ingredients and was kept secret for over seventeen centuries.
Petiver himself did not travel much with visits restricted to Bristol and Cambridge and in 1711 to the Netherlands.
The format on this work as a series of letters perhaps had the effect of cushioning the reality of the (anti-religious) statements she was making.
In 1650 he returned to Montpellier in France, where he took care of his lifelong friend Philippe Jacques de Maussac, who died that same year.
In the year of 1759, he published another short essay on smallpox, Reasons against an opinion that a person infected with the Small-pox may be cured by Antidote without incurring the Distemper.
The results of his herborisations around London were recorded in his copy of Ray's ‘Synopsis,’ 2nd edit., now in the British Museum, and were used by Dillenius in preparing the third edition.
Supported by independent means, Ziz devoted himself to botany, undertaking field trips as far afield as southern France and the Pyrenees.
In 1638 he was called to treat Prince Christian whose leg had been injured by a carriage wheel running over it.
This was an illustrated account, with text in Dutch and Latin, of the plants growing in van Beaumont's garden.
Bitter at the treatment he received from his enemies, he grew disgusted with the infighting and ineffectiveness of his former allies and vowed to become a party of one.
1787-1805 he worked as "druggist, medicine," from offices "three doors below the Drawbridge, Ann Street." He had trained "with Mr.
Life and work Hudson was born between 1730 and 1732 at the White Lion Inn, Kendal, which was kept by his father.
Life Samuel Doody was the eldest of the second family of his father, John Doody, who according to many sources was noted as an apothecary in Staffordshire.
Professor Johann Hedwig of Leipzig later named a genus of moss Timmia after him, including the species he found at Malchin in Mecklenburg, Timmia megapolitana.
Leaving public service, he also gave up his medical practice and concentrated on his pharmacy business.
He obtained the prize for botany given by the Apothecaries' Company which was a copy of Ray's Synopsis.
This house may have been intended for his own use or may have been the residence of his natural (illegitimate) children and their mother.
558-567 Mémoire sur les altérations que les huiles essentielles et les huiles grasses éprouvent par l'action de l'acide nitreux, Académie royale des sciences, 1780, p.
497-501 With Lassone, Mémoire sur une inflammation spontanée du phospore, avec quelques remarques sur la nature de son acide, Académie royale des sciences, 1780, p.
Printed by Estienne Roger in Amsterdam, the piece is based on Italian sonatas, perhaps those of Arcangelo Corelli.
He accompanied his father to England, and was appointed apothecary to Anne of Denmark, queen of James I.
Life He was apprenticed to an apothecary, and afterwards practised medicine as an apothecary in London.
Adam Drummond of Binend (1679–1758) was a Scottish surgeon-apothecary who was appointed, jointly, as the first Professor of Anatomy at the University of Edinburgh.
She was a sister of Sir Walter Peyton of Sutton Coldfield, an adventurer with the English East India Company who served as factor (in 1614) and subsequently captain or commander (1616) of the Expedition, sailing to Bantam (Banten) and Tecoe on Java.
It is believed Abbott never sold any of his paintings, and most of his works were retained by his family until well into the 20th century.
(2000), Der Landkreis Demmin Historische Stätten (in German), Stavenhagen: Khs Verlag & Service GmbH, pp.
The bills were checked and certified by the Prince's chamberlain Robert Cary and the physician John Craig, and another bill presented in 1619 was countersigned by Matthew Lister a physician who served Anne of Denmark.
He is mentioned by Theophrastus as possessing the knowledge of certain anaphrodisiac medicines, which he made use of either for the punishment or reformation of his slaves.
In 1723 his ‘Prælectiones Pharmaceuticæ,’ lectures which had been delivered at his own house, were published with a preface by Dr.
He bequeathed the remains of his herbarium to the Apothecaries' Company and some have subsequently been transferred to the herbaria at the Royal Botanic Gardens and the Natural History Museum in London.
This method additionally permitted authors to state the views of the other side without claiming support for them, as well as create a clear avenue to respond to each point of possible criticism.
François, Franciscus, or Frans Kiggelaer (baptized 4 December 1648, in Haarlem – buried 22 December 1722, in The Hague) was a Dutch botanist, apothecary and curator of the garden of Simon van Beaumont in Leiden.
His chemical table contains nine elements, namely lead, tin, iron, gold, copper, quicksilver, sulfur, and arsenic (but he listed sulfur and arsenic under minerals or chemical compounds).
Francis Bernard (1698) External links Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Stephen, Leslie, ed.
Besler did not consider himself a scientist, but rather relied on the extant literature of his time including Camerarius, Clusius, Fuchs, Tabernaemontanus and Lobelius, but his work predated the introduction of many overseas plants to Germany.
Merriman first settled as a physician in Bristol, and afterwards removed to Andover, Hampshire; but coming to London in April 1757, he commenced practice in Queen Street, Mayfair, as an apothecary or general practitioner, in partnership with Oakley Halford, who was about to retire.
In this he created a major systematic division of the asteroids and ophiuroids based on the presence or absence of the ambulacral groove.
He further asserted that the venom is contained in a poison bag (gland), but the snake is only venomous when it is irritated.
Mocquet was apparently commissioned by King Henry IV to collect items fitting for furnishing a cabinet of curiosities during his travels.
History Because of the unregulated nature of pharmaceutical enterprises throughout much of the 19th century and early 20th century, drugs were sold at many establishments, including bookstores and general stores.
Family Pryce married Miss Mitchell of Redruth, and left two sons, William Pryce and Samuel Vincent Pryce, both of whom became surgeons there.
His later work was influenced by discussions with the Florentine scientists and their modern experimental practice.
He rewarded a "stranger of Perpignan that shewed quinta essentia" in January 1499, and employed a "multiplier" to make gold in the Tower of London.
John Aubrey took an interest in the horoscope for Thomas Hobbes on which Bernard collaborated with John Gadbury.
It is believed that it is Philippe Jacques de Maussac who introduced Joseph Barsalou to Antonio Barberini and the Italian leg of his journey.
His collections of Psychidae, Sesiidae, Tortricidae, Tineidae and Pterophoridae are held by Natural History Museum, London.
Her and her daughters’ Lutheran beliefs were publicly reaffirmed in their respective funeral sermons.
Life Born somewhere between 1663 and 1665 in Hillmorton, Warwickshire to James (baptism record from Hillmorton has "Pettyfer", 22 February 1635) and Mary née Elborow, the family moved to London soon after where his father became a haberdasher.
Emily was brought up as a Quaker, became Protestant and afterwards joined the sect of Selina Hastings, Countess of Huntingdon.
From 1868 to 1873, he started his own factory in Leipzig for essential oils and attained a comfortable standard of living within five years.
Chymiae medicae dogmatico-experimentalis… oder der gründlichen and mit Experimenten erwiesenen Medicinischen Chymie …, 4 vols.
Lyst claimed that Forest was poorly-educated, frequently making grammatical errors in his preaching, breaking "Priscian's head or ear".
Lownes had professional difficulties in February 1616 when a supplier, Michael Eason, was found to be supplying inferior materials.
After acting for many years as apothecary to Bethlehem Hospital, London, and obtaining a practical knowledge of nervous diseases, Haslam was dismissed by the governors in 1816 after the publication of the Report of the Select Committee on Madhouses.
Antonio Francesco Grazzini or Antonfrancesco Grazzini (March 22, 1503 – February 18, 1584) was an Italian Renaissance author.
He had married Catherine Serocold in 1740, by whom he had two daughters, and was buried at St Nicholas, Liverpool, on 21 February 1768.
More went on to apprentice under an apothecary in Whitechapel and afterwards opened his own business with his family inheritance.
Levet." It was based mostly on the testimony of Johnson himself, and appears to be the work of the literary editor and scholar, George Steevens.
Arnold repeatedly claimed that he was being passed over for promotion by the Second Continental Congress, and that other officers were being given credit for some of his accomplishments.
Jahrhunderts", Schweizerisches Archiv für Volkskunde = Archives suisses des traditions populaires 14 (1910), 198–245.
He did not expect, however, that tavern goers would “relish calling for a bottle of Air, instead of Claret”.
In 1589, she became the second wife of Georg I, Landgrave of Hesse-Darmstadt and moved to Darmstadt with most of her children.
With her strong familial and intellectual connections to Italy, Queen Anna had a reputation as an advocate for women's educational pursuits within the scientific disciplines.
Louis presented him with an ornate mortar in 1678 (now in the collection of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society in London).
digital edition Archived 2015-02-02 at the Wayback Machine from the University and State Library Sachsen-Anhalt, Halle (Saale).
Two days later (5 October), however, he attended a levee, and was peremptorily required to leave the castle.
He became a fellow of the College of Physicians of London in 1687, nominated by James II's charter: he had been elected an honorary fellow seven years earlier.
He received a doctorate in 1647 and became a physician in Venice while also making studies on chemicals such as silica, and the effect of soap on oils.
He created a botanical garden in Regensburg, published the Catalogus Alphabetico ordine exhibens Pharmaca in 1723 and contributed botanical notes as "Observationes und Anmerkungen" in the "Breslauer Sammlungen".
He soon came to the conclusion that the board of Aldermen had illegally usurped many of the powers belonging of right to the entire corporation.
The company was established after the partners bought out the stock and lease of a wholesaler who was about to retire.
Hudson, at the time of its publication, was practising as an apothecary in Panton Street, Haymarket, and from 1765 to 1771 acted as 'praefectus horti' to the Apothecaries' Company at the Chelsea Physic Garden.
he was especially influential and popular as a teacher, and taught many students among whom were Denis Diderot, Antoine-Laurent de Lavoisier, Joseph Proust and Antoine-Augustin Parmentier.
He recorded many English folk-names for butterflies, also coining some himself, and wrote some of the first butterfly books that used English names in addition to Latin.
487-496 Observation sur les différents sels que l'on retire par la lixiviation des cendres du tamaris, pris en différents lieux, Académie royale des sciences, 1779, p.
After the first 500 plates, Ehret realised that he was receiving a miserly payment and soon found new employment copying plates, while being able to produce other paintings independently.
He demanded that the settlers should surrender their weapons, and that all prisoners should be released.
Trabue, "Ann and Arthur Storer of Calvert County, Maryland, Friends of Sir Isaac Newton, With the Descendants of Clarke Skinner of Calvert County" (2004).
In popular culture In Kyoto's Gion Festival, one of the yamaboko floats (En no Gyoja Yama) is dedicated to En no Gyoja.
606-612 Mémoire sur la fermention du salpêtre, en 1779 Quaestio chemico-medica de diversis saponum generibus == References ==
It remained in the ownership of Richard Robert Graham, depicted on the far right of the painting, at least until his death in 1816.
The older of two sons of a prosperous citizen of Florence, Landucci was trained as a bookkeeper, and became the apprentice to an apothecary at the age of sixteen.
in 1753, his thesis ‘De Conceptu,’ 8vo, Edinburgh, 1753, being of so much value that it was reprinted by William Smellie in the second volume of his ‘Thesaurus Medicus’ (1779).
Fox, after practicing in Falmouth for some years as an apothecary, "acquired by marriage and his profession a small independence" and decided to try his fortune in London as a physician.
Career William Rosewell was apprenticed to Richard Moy in 1620 and was examined in 1628 by the Apothecaries' Company.
Haslam read three papers—On Restraint and Coercion, 1833, An Attempt to Institute the Correct Discrimination between Crime and Insanity, 1843, and On the Increase of Insanity, 1843—before the Society for Improving the Condition of the Insane; these were printed with others by J.
John Haslam (1764–1844) was an English apothecary, physician and medical writer, known for his work on mental illness.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Cooper, Thompson (1888).
He wrote commentary in the margins, including a note that Sherard was friends with George Frideric Handel; this is plausible considering the two's mutual acquaintance in Haym.
However, in 1783 his house in Panton Street caught fire, his collections of insects and many of his plants were destroyed, and the people narrowly escaped with their lives.
The other members included William Gregson, John Dobson, his cousin John Parr, Thomas Hodgson, Thomas Staniforth, George Case, Samuel Shaw, John Backhouse and James Caruthers.
History Jackson was born in Newtown-Limavady, County Londonderry, Ireland, the son of Samuel Jackson.
In 1749 he started a five-year apprenticeship as an apothecary, initially with Friedrich John in Wangerin, where he served for a year as an assistant.
In the later part of the war, Arnold was commissioned as a brigadier general in the British Army and placed in command of the American Legion.
Work In 1611, the bishop, who was already quite ill, commissioned Besler to compile a codex of the plants growing in his garden, a task which Besler took sixteen years to complete, the bishop dying shortly before the work was published in 1613.
Russ noted that of the 800 to 1000 African grey parrots brought into German around 1877, nearly 600 to 750 died from psittacosis and other illnesses.
Biography Elizabeth Gooking was born in Edison, Province of New Jersey in 1681, the daughter of Samuel and Mary Gooking.
He returned to Orange in 1681 to obtain a degree of doctor of medicine, receiving the highest rank for his dissertation.
At that point, Frederik sent him abroad to learn more about chemistry and pharmacy in a number of European countries.
She is also inconsistent in her work because she continually supports a separation between theology and natural philosophy, while she frequently comes close to connecting the two.
The letter to Berzevczy was framed in response to an accusation he made concerning her writings on the Biblical Flood.
Scientific work Petiver made use of a global network of collectors who worked aboard colonial trading ships and naval vessels, about a quarter to a third of his collectors were associated with the global slave trade.
The Mennonites (also known as Doopgezinden) were an independent Anabaptist group originating in the Netherlands at the onset of the Protestant Reformation.
Farewell oration, including a short narrative of his arrest and imprisonment in the Birmingham dungeon, 1798.
Bourdelin worked with Samuel Cottereau du Clos to analyze mineral waters (sampling ninety sources from 68 locations in France and the analysis was published in 1675), materials from plants and animals.
Dubbed "The Cliffs", it overlooked the Schuylkill River near Gray's Ferry, just upriver from the Bartram estate.
Publications Horti medici amstelodamensis rariorum tam Orientalis :quam Occidentalis Indiæ, aliarumque peregrinarum plantarum, magno studio ac labore, sumptibus Civitatis amstelodamensis, longâ annorum serie collectarum, descriptio et icones ad vivum æri incisæ /auctore Joanne Commelino.
His funeral sermon was preached by his friend Adam Buddle, who was also a botanist as well as a member of the clergy.
The royal accounts include payments to Mosman for constructing furnaces in December 1503 and for bellows.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Goodwin, Gordon (1894).
In 1633 he accompanied the Landgrave to Dresden to attend a meeting with Johann Georg, Elector of Saxony.
Short-term residents of the home included Washington biographer Jared Sparks, politician and future Massachusetts Governor Edward Everett, and lexicographer Joseph Emerson Worcester.
Johnson knew little of Levet's background, but he seemed to cherish the awkward, unpolished man nonetheless.
When they disobeyed, he bound them using sorcery." In spite of this incident, it seems that the Court continued to highly evaluate the herbal knowledge of Ozunu's school, since Vol.
He held substantial tracts in upstate New York, Oxford, Maine, and in East Cambridge, and speculated in both domestic and foreign money markets.
He led British forces in battle against the army which he had once commanded, and his name became synonymous with treason and betrayal in the United States.
Katherine had three children from a previous marriage to Edward Storer, including daughter Katherine as well as sons Edward and Arthur Storer.
The will was witnessed by the royal physician John Craig, Robert Johnson, and the surgeon Gilbert Primrose.
At this time he was leasing the Copperas Works in Bromley from his brother-in-law, the shipwright John Perry Sr (father of John Perry) of Blackwall Yard.
In it he described that snakes are important for the treatment of itch, erysipelas, measles, smallpox, leprosy and for skin care.
Organizing a nomenclature for salts Discovery of crystalline form of thymol Work on alcohol, amber, benzoin resin and cinnamic acid.
Honours 1776 accommodation into Leopoldina Publications Chemische Versuche über die alkalischen Salze.
Before this time, bismuth-containing minerals were frequently misidentified as either lead, tin, or antimony ores.
'En the ascetic'), En no Ubasoku (役優婆塞, "En the Layman") , or also under the full name En no Kimi Ozunu, where Kimi (君) is his kabane or titular name.
He served as a physician to several members of royalty and nobility but earned notoriety after several of his cures were questionable and proved deadly.
In addition to his investigation of neutral salts, he published papers on the inflammation of turpentine and other essential oils by nitric acid, and the methods of embalming practised in Ancient Egypt.
After a debate on this proceeding in the British forum, the result condemning Yorke was announced outside the building in a placard drawn up by Jones.
Three years later he became surgical apprentice to Thomas Edgar who had been Deacon of the Incorporation of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1685 to 1687.
Renward Brandstetter, Renward Cysat, 1545-1614: der Begründer der schweizerischen Volkskunde (1909).
He is noted for co-founding the McKesson Corporation, the largest health care company in North America and ninth-largest company in the United States.
First he traded by the Ship Tavern in St Bartholomew Lane, St Bartholomew-by-the-Exchange, behind the Royal Exchange.
Works He knew little of clinical medicine, and was only skilful in the arrangement of drugs in prescriptions.
He was appointed an alderman of Dowgate Ward 17 January 1625–6, and was discharged as an alien a week later.
Normally the sight of prayer flags and the smell of incense repel me, but the store’s herbs and other products, along with the knowledgeable service, have made Tenzing Momo part of my regular routine...
This revision troubled many botanists because of the changes he suggested to nearly 30000 taxa, many which were contrary to the rules established by the botanical congress of 1867.
Parkinson called for representation of the people in the House of Commons, the institution of annual parliaments.
He then worked for Duke Frederik III of Holsten-Gottorp and then King Christian IV who made him his physician.
of the Middle Temple,’ speaks of him as a bankrupt apothecary, a charge to which he made no reply in the second edition of his ‘Examination’ published, with a further ‘letter to Dr.
Simon distilled an oily substance from storax, the resin of the Sweetgum tree, Liquidambar orientalis, which he named "styrol".
Life and work Dieterich was born in Kyrtorf in Hesse-Darmstadt, son of the priest and theologian Johannes (1572–1635) and Barbara Reichard.
In 1720 Drummond resigned "owing to the state of his health and his business", although it is likely that this was as a result of pressure from John Monro, who wished to advance the interests of his son Alexander.
In the 19th century novel Nansou Satomi Hakkenden, the spirit of En no Gyoja gifts the Satomi family a magical japamala as a ward against their curse, which is later divided to become the personal talismans of the eponymous Eight Dog Warriors.
An apothecary was among the personnel specified in the resolution, and in time Craigie assumed that duty.
Publications Mémoire sur la décomposition de plusieurs sels neutres à base d'alkalis fixes et volatils, par l'acide marin, Académie royale des sciences, 1778, p.
Career After three years in Kargowa, he went to Berlin in 1704, working at first at the apothecary shop of Christoph Schmedicke.
She combines her understanding of the humors with those of the elements found in nature of earth, water, and air.
Renward Cysat (Cusatus; 1545–1614) was an apothecary, advocate, cartographer and city councillor of Lucerne.
The painting is noted for its many references to mortality, the passing of time and the fragility of life as Thomas had died by the time the painting was completed.
Mary James (Abt 1796 – London, 27 Mar 1866) who married abt 1825 Robert Deeble Mitchel, MD (Redruth, Cornwall, ca 1794 – Boulogne sur Mer, Fr, 2 Nov 1843), issue.
He is known as Claude Geoffroy the Younger to distinguish him from his father Claude Joseph Geoffroy the Older (1685–1752), also a French chemist and apothecary, member of the Académie des sciences.
He was inducted into the Leopoldina academy in 1722 and was a member of the Royal Society of London.
That may have been because it was the custom of the time to add the name of his father after death, or because "Dr.
His family was related to the famous lawyer José Presas y Marull, an anglophile, who served as secretary of Carlota Joaquina of Spain.
He became the royal apothecary to King Louis XIV, but moved to London to avoid persecution as a Protestant Huguenot.
A verdict of not proven was returned on charges that he supported those defeated at Bothwell Bridge.
His father, John Spreul, merchant in Paisley, was fined by Middleton, although he had suffered for his refusing the tender; he paid the one half of his fine, and being prosecuted for the other, or rather his refusing the declaration, he was forced, with many other worthy persons, to abscond.
Joachim Christian Timm died in Malchin in 1805 and is regarded today as a pioneer of modern botany in Germany.
George, was one of his patrons, and Quincy printed in 1713 a laudatory poem on their common friend, the Rev.
Bernard was lampooned as "Horoscope" in Samuel Garth's The Dispensary: Bernard communicated to William Lilly in 1664 a theory on horoscopes for cities, and its application to the prediction of fires in London.
Apothecary to the Queen It appears that William paid his own way to Portugal in early 1662 to attend Catherine of Braganza before her marriage to Charles II.
542-557 Mémoire sur l'action de l'acide marin sur les huiles, Académie royale des sciences, 1780, p.
He moved to Berlin in 1867 to write books, his first writings were on the freedom of the press and worker's rights and he showed support for Hermann Schulze-Delitzsch.
John Postgate (1820–1881) was an English surgeon, academic, and a campaigner against food adulteration.
He also provided descriptions of the nature of the regions visited, including on the uses of aloe and honey from stingless bees.
He is known as Geoffroy the Younger to distinguish him from his brother, Geoffroy the Elder (1672–1731).
Many of Newton's biographers have noted that it was the lessons learned from Clarke that sparked Newton's interest in chemistry.
In 1879 he was concerned about the hunting of hares in Germany as they had suffered from bad climatic conditions leading to the death of many in the previous two seasons.
He collaborated with Berlin botanists Alexander Braun (1805-1877) and Paul Ascherson (1834-1913) and produced a revision of the Rubus species in Germany.
On completion of his apprenticeship he went, as was the custom of the day, for further education at a continental University.
The reference to Lucas was unmistakable, and the commons, on a motion of Sir Richard Cox, ordered Lucas and his printer to appear at the bar of the house.
Dieterich stayed at Nykjøbing Castle for a year but when the Elector died in 1640, it was said that Dieterich's cures may have hastened the death.
Since 1875, a collection of his mosses has been kept at the British Museum of Natural History (250 specimens in 5 fascicles).
Political allegiance In the 1745 Jacobite uprising the Jacobite army under Prince Charles Edwart Stuart defeated a Government army under the command of General Sir John Cope at the Battle of Prestonpans.
He claimed that oils had a hidden acid which is released while forming soap when reacting with alkali, noting that soap could dissolve minute amounts of silver.
The book was reissued as Weimar Book of Medicine in 1678 and several of its recipes were used in Eleonora Maria Rosalia of Troppau and Jägerndorf’s popular book of remedies in 1695.
The election was contested by Leonard Myers on the grounds that several wards in Philadelphia submitted false results.
Healing and medical practice In November 1505 there was a plague scare in Dunfermline while Margaret Tudor was at Dunfermline Palace.
As a preliminary step, Scholefield moved on 26 June 1855 for a Select Committee of Inquiry in the House of Commons, and this was duly agreed.
April 1609 – 1671) was an apothecary who provided lodgings for a young Isaac Newton whilst he attended the King's School in Grantham.
Claude-Melchior Cornette (1 March 1744 – 11 May 1794) was a French chemist, physician and apothecary who worked under royal patronage just before the French Revolution drove him into exile.
From 1838 until 1841 he ran a candle factory and became a member of the town council of Darmstadt in 1828.
Basilius Besler (1561–1629) was a respected Nuremberg apothecary and botanist, best known for his monumental florilegium, the Hortus Eystettensis (lit.
A Letter to the Governors of Bethlehem Hospital, containing an Account of their Management for the last Twenty Years, 1818.
Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Quincy, John".
Legacy Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site The Charles River Dam Bridge, a.k.a.
They made him 'free' (freeman of the Company) and he presented them with the traditional silver spoon.
In 1796 he published Sketch of a Political Tour through Rochester, Chatham, Maidstone, and Gravesend.
One visitor, Zacharias von Uffenbach, noted that his specimens were poorly documented and heaped into a cabinet unworthy of display.
700–707) was a Japanese ascetic and mystic, traditionally held to be the founder of Shugendō, the path of ascetic training practiced by the gyōja or yamabushi.
One week later the University appointed Alexander Monro primus as his successor, paving the way for the famous dynasty of Anatomy professors.
John Banister from Virginia, Samuel Browne in Madras, surgeon Edward Bartar in Africa, John Smyth in Jamaica, and John Dickinson in Bermuda.
To comply with the regulations of the College of Physicians in London, he entered himself at Pembroke College, Cambridge, and kept some terms there, but took no degree.
In 1753 he proved the chemical element bismuth to be distinct from lead, becoming the official discoverer of the element.
It was announced in the newspapers that an answer, "published by authority," entitled The Usage of holding Parliaments and of preparing Bills of Supply in Ireland, stated from Record, would shortly appear.
No fewer than 176 industrial chimneys were spewing smoke into the air and the streets were "running sewers"; he published his first reformist pamphlet, on the "sanatary aspects" of the town calling for municipal action.
Arnold was promoted to brigadier general for his role in reaching Quebec, and he maintained an ineffectual siege of the city until he was replaced by Major General David Wooster in April 1776.
The opening was attended by Fern Guindon (Auld's successor) representing the provincial Ministry of Tourism and Information, James McNulty representing the federal Indian Affairs and Northern Development department, local politicians, Stokes, and some members of the OCP.
They remarked they had "too much reason to apprehend" that it had "been of very bad consequence this war." Parr was a member of the African Company of Merchants whose purpose was to lobby in favour of the slave trade.
Craigie and his associates, who formed the Lechemere Point Corporation, benefited from the building boom that followed, spurred on by their efforts to expand the public street grid.
John Wolfgang Rumler, like many students of his time, kept a Liber Amicorum, a kind of autograph book, recording people he met during his travels and studies.
In January 1503 he was paid £34 Scots for a year's supplies, and in June 1504 just over £37 for apothecary goods supplied to James IV over four months.
Washington's attention, who mentioned Craigie in a letter written to "an influential member of Congress." After he became the first apothecary general in the colonial army in 1777, Craigie recommended the creation of a central supply for medications.
The candlemaker John Clavie and his business partners were censured for exporting tallow in March 1569.
He died in Jermyn Street from paralysis on 23 May 1793, being, according to the Gentleman's Magazine, in his sixtieth year.
being Elected to membership on 20 April 1827 In 1776, Thomas Henry speculated tongue in cheek that Joseph Priestley’s newly discovered dephlogisticated air (now called oxygen) might become “as fashionable as French wine at the fashionable taverns”.
In his essay on The Practice and Theory of Inoculation he narrates his experience in three hundred and fifty cases, only one having died by the smallpox so induced.
(In June 2008, nearly seven centuries after his death, the city council of Florence passed a motion rescinding Dante's sentence.) In 1306–07, Dante was a guest of Moroello Malaspina in the region of Lunigiana.
Arnold learned of André's capture on the morning of September 24 while waiting for Washington, with whom he was going to have breakfast at his headquarters in British Colonel Beverley Robinson's former summer house on the east bank of the Hudson.
William Hudson FRS (1730 in Kendal – 23 May 1793) was a British botanist and apothecary based in London.
He died from a heart attack at his home in Belle Alliance Strasse, Berlin and was buried in the Holy Cross Cemetery, Berlin-Mariendorf.
Political career At the 1690 English general election Chase was returned as Member of Parliament for Great Marlow in Buckinghamshire.
To both societies he was known as Il Lasca or Leuciscus, a pseudonym which is still frequently substituted for his name.
His description of the natives of South America is sympathetic, and contains detailed descriptions of ethnological interest.
Born in Paris, Garencières studied the prophecies of Nostradamus at an early age, and these had a lasting effect on him.
Though this was a role which had been exclusively performed by men, Massachusetts did not have any laws in place to prevent women from practicing.
On 5 June 1973, the American Association of State and Local History presented an Award of Merit to the Ontario Heritage Foundation and the Ontario College of Pharmacy for the restoration of the apothecary.
Weinmann prospered in Regensburg so that he was able in 1712 to purchase a house and apothecary shop.
485-486 Mémoire sur la décomposition, par l'acide marin, de plusieurs sels vitrioliques et nitreux à base métallique, Académie royale des sciences, 1779, p.
In October 1607 he set out from Paris again, this time on a journey that would take him via Portugal to Goa in India; it was a journey fraught with difficulties, but he returned to France August 1610.
They had ten children, including the sons Joachim (1768–1801) and Hans Timm (1774–1852), who one after the other succeeded their father as the official apothecary in Malchin.
Heinrich Emanuel Merck (15 September 1794 – 14 February 1855) was an apothecary whose descendants are the founders of Merck and Company and Merck KGaA.
There is also in the hall a portrait of him in oil, supposed to have been painted by Cornelius Johnson.
Alexander Kraft: On Two Letters from Caspar Neumann to John Woodward Revealing the Secret Method for Preparation of Prussian Blue.
His numerous studies on the chemical nature of minerals were usually published in Lorenz von Crell’s Chemische Annalen.
Mocquet wrote and published an account of his voyages, Voyages en Afrique, Asie, Indes orientales et occidentales published in 1617.
The Aldermen strenuously resisted reform, and in 1743 he published A Remonstrance against certain Infringements on the Rights and Liberties of the Commons and Citizens of Dublin, arguing that the right of electing Aldermen lay with the entire corporation.
Plates were not signed at the bottom and in some the names of the artist are hidden away in the illustration.
Ernst Hofmann (1837 Frankfurt am Main – 1892 Stuttgart) was a German entomologist who specialised in Lepidoptera.
His father was court apothecary to Charles II, and James II, having succeeded his own father in 1666, who was court apothecary to Charles I and, after the Restoration, to Charles II.
This was criticized by others and Tachenius believed that his critic was Helwig Dieterich, resulting in polemics between the two (and others) which went on until 1656.
Notes Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lee, Sidney, ed.
He enthusiastically collected plants of all kinds, especially cryptogams, primarily in the Malchin area.
It then had several owners before it was acquired by Lord Duveen who presented it to the British National Gallery in 1934.
Craigie evidently supported Allen without aid from the mother’s family, although Allen never lived in his household.
Being intended for the medical profession he was sent to Edinburgh in 1748, and graduated there as M.D.
He apprenticed as an apothecary in 1672 and worked with maltster John Solley before going into his father's business, to which he succeeded around the year 1696.
After Priestley's publication of a method to make carbonated water, Henry manufactured "artificial Pyrmont and Seltzer waters" for sale in the late 1770s, imitating the famous sparkling mineral waters, e.g.
His daughter, Martha (Marthe) married another Huguenot apothecary in London, John (Jean) Misaubin, in 1709, who also had premises on St.
The mourners also included officers and many hundred brethren of the guilds and the Lord Mayor with representatives of the Corporation and the Vice-Provost and scholars of Trinity College.
In 1450, Landucci began keeping the diary that would posthumously prove his claim to fame, diligently recording events of the day until his death.
Garnier married Margaret Miller in May 1766; they had six sons and three daughters, including Thomas Garnier the Elder.
She managed the pharmacy until 1682, when she retired in favor of her son-in-law Jakob Leonard Allmacher (1652–1724).
Johann Baptist Ziz (8 October 1779–1 December 1829) was a German botanist, apothecary, and teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium.
On 19 July 1695, Houghton printed the first personal ad from a man seeking a wife in A Collection for Improvement of Husbandry and Trade, initiating the "lonely hearts" industry.
Association with Isaac Newton In 1654, William provided boarding to Isaac Newton as he would be attending the King's School with Edward and Arthur Storer.
He served in the American Revolution and worked as a shoemaker before, in 1787, moving to Chambersburg, Pennsylvania and taking up work as an apothecary.
In 1586 Queen Elizabeth joked that James VI had leapt to conclusions and so made a "quintessence of some humours" to taste a "sour liquid".
Support for the phlogiston theory Bibliography Works by Neumann Disquisitio De Ambra Grysea, Dresden, 1736.
John Spreull, merchant, headed a country-wide drive to collect money to pay said ransoms." Later in life John Spreul was known for trade in pearls, especially Scottish pearls.
He also edited the works of Francesco Berni, and collected Tutti I trionfi, larri, mascherate o canti carnascialeschi, andati per Firenze dal tempo del Magnifico Lorenzo vecchio de 'Medici fino all'anno 1559 (the latter influenced Goethe's "Faust").
He was one of just three people with addresses in Poplar and Blackwall to be found in Thomas Mortimer's Universal Director of 1763.
The plates for this work were by the engravers Bartholomew Seuter, Johann Elias Ridinger (1698–1767), and Johann Jakob Haid (1704–1767), and were printed using a process invented by Seuter.
The opinion was that of Boerhaave, Cheyne, and others, that the development of smallpox after exposure to infection could be checked by a timely use of the æthiops mineral.
The building is notable for being the only one in the town surviving from Confederation, when the drug store was moved to its present location in 1866.
For each entry Ziz recorded vernacular French names, precise collection localities—often his own discoveries—and the number of specimens he dried, marking rarities with red symbols.
In many cases, the species to be moved had already been reclassified numerous times with several proposed names but Kuntze appears to have disregarded these classifications and simply reclassified the basionym.
[1] Praelectiones chemicae seu chemia medico-phamaceutica experimentalis & rationalise oder grünndlicher Unterricht der Chemie … Berlin, 1740.
In 1672, Garencières was the first to translate Nostradamus into English, creating the bilingual text The true prophecies or prognostications of Michel Nostradamus.
The "quintessence" was an imagined healing substance with some of the properties of distilled alcohol or aqua vitae, particularly associated with the 14th-century French alchemist Jean de Roquetaillade.
He was allowed bail or caution for future loyalty at £1,000 Scots, guaranteed by the textile merchant Robert Jousie and Barclay.
Lyst made medicinal distilled waters and sent them as a gift to Catherine of Aragon and to Cromwell.
Gallery Notes References Andrew Wilton & Anne Lyles, The Great Age of British Watercolours, 1750–1880, 1993, Prestel, ISBN 3791312545
Also incorporated into its pages are pictures of symbolic flowers and other items, as well as twenty hymns.
John Houghton (1645 – 1705) was an English apothecary and writer on agriculture and trade, a Fellow of the Royal Society.
Career Sherard was born in Bushby, Leicestershire to George and Mary Sherwood; it is unknown why his surname was changed.
He later started a public course in his laboratory in 1738, in 1742 he was appointed experimental demonstrator of chemistry at the Jardin du Roi in Paris.
From his earliest years, Lucas had been a martyr to hereditary gout, which rendered him a complete cripple, and latterly obliged him to be carried to the House of Commons.
Conyers was present at the excavation in 1679 of the remains of a supposed elephant from a gravel bed at Battlebridge (King's Cross).
Moyse Charas, or Moses Charas (2 April 1619 – 17 January 1698), was an apothecary in France during the reign of Louis XIV.
James Sherard (1 November 1666 – 12 February 1738) was an English apothecary, botanist, and amateur musician.
Sources Missouri Botanical Garden See also List of florilegia and botanical codices Links Phytanthoza Iconographia online
He became a master apothecary in 1748, and in 1752 he was admitted to the Académie des sciences as a supernumerary adjoint chemist.
Early life The son of a Scarborough builder, Thomas Postgate, by his wife Jane Wade, he was born in Scarborough, on 21 October 1820.
Hogarth produced The Graham Children, one of his most successful conversation pieces (an informal group portrait of family or friends, often engaged in conversation or some other kind of activity).
Remedy book In 1600, Eleonore published Sechs Bücher auserlesener Artzney und Kunst-Stücke, fast vor alle des menschlichen Leibes Zufälle, Gebrechen und Kranckheiten (Six Books of Exquisite Medicine and Skills for Almost All Human Bodily Ailments and Illnesses).
By 1691, the club included Martin Lister, Tancred Robinson, John Watts, Nehemiah Grew, William Sherard, Samuel Doody, Leonard Plukenet, Charles Hatton, Adam Buddle, and Samuel Dale.
John Moffet (April 5, 1831 – June 19, 1884) was an Irish-American politician who served as a Democratic member of the U.S.
Rumler's innovative "ointment" was washed from the faces of the courtly masquers to reveal their true and stable noble identities.
He had been prevented from joining the priesthood because he had once been engaged to marry, but the woman had now died.
Smith, "marks the establishment of Linnean principles of botany in England." Smith writes that the work was "composed under the auspices and advice of Benjamin Stillingfleet".
In the anime Zenki, a posthumous character named Enno Ozunu was the master of Zenki, who would centuries later be summoned again by his descendant, Chiaki Enno.
He served the office of junior warden in 1624, that of senior warden in 1627, and was master in 1637.
It turned out that it was identical with sugar acid, which was discovered by Carl Wilhelm Scheele in 1784.
When he was 12, however, he was promised in marriage to Gemma di Manetto Donati, daughter of Manetto Donati, member of the powerful Donati family.
He wrote parts of the multi-volume work Die Schmetterlinge Europas (The Lepidoptera of Europe), published in 1908.
21 July 1936 – 4 October 1949: Stanley Hewett 4 October 1949 – 1 October 1964: John Nigel Loring 1 October 1964 – 3 January 1975: Ralph Southward 3 January 1975 – 12 February 2003: Nigel Southward 2003–present: Timothy Evans References Further reading Matthews, L.G.
Mocquet appealed discretely to Marie de' Medici to let him continue the project, but without success.
John Moffet, Relative to the Contest for a Seat in the 41st Congress as a Representative from the Third District of Pennsylvania, 1869 Brewster, F.
They were: Emily (after March 1792 – Newton Abbott, South Devon, 8 March 1866) married Philip Sleeman (1791/2 – 31 Mar 1869), brother of William Henry Sleeman.
The local survey was conducted by architect Peter John Stokes, who was the "foremost architectural historian" of the province at the time.
He lived piously to the age of ninety-seven years, and worth (notwithstanding his many acts of publick and private charity) near as many thousand pounds as he was years, having thirty-seven children by one wife, and about sixty grandchildren at his funeral.
Helwig Dieterich Latinized as Helvicus Dietericus (24 June 1601 – 13 December 1655) was a German physician and chemist.
A branch of the family including a John Mosman and his son Robert Mosman was recorded in February 1490 in connection with their tenancy of the lands of "Easter Gledstanis".
"The more refined studies of our speculative adepts in philosophy", he says, "have let them into the secret that the small-pox and many other diseases are propagated by means of animalcula hatched from eggs lodged in the hairs, pores, &c.
Thomas Were (a Quaker) is also named in this agreement, regarding a property on the west side of Finsbury Place at the corner of Ropemaker's Street in the Parish of St Luke in the County of Middlesex.
567-582 Avec Lassone, Mémoire sur un phénomène singulier que présentent les acides minéraux, pendant leur concentration; et sur un nouveau moyen de se procurer facilement de l'eau-forte des plus pures, Académie royale des sciences, 1781, p.
Houghton also published in 1693 a sixpenny sheet, containing An Account of the Acres and Houses, with the proportional tax … of each county in England and Wales (reprinted in Somers Tracts, ed.
From 1789 to 1801 he served as a trustee of the University of the State of Pennsylvania, continuing through its merger into the University of Pennsylvania.
He travelled in Italy around 1625 and worked at Rüeber's Apotheke zum Löwen in Ulm with studies under the physician Sebastian Stromeier.
Two years later, the Ministry of Tourism and Information still had not acted on the minister's promise, so the partnership undertook its own plans for restoration.
Over the next decade he worked in apothecaries at Kassel, Frankfurt and Darmstadt, finally returning to Mainz in 1812 to qualify as an apothecary and settle as a private scholar.
He possessed an estate at Roxton, Bedfordshire, the manor of Sharsted, Kent, where some of his descendants still resided as of the 19th century, a mansion in Blackfriars, London, and extensive property in Virginia and the Bermudas.
This provides story-enhancing soundtrack, video and animation, and interactive story clues that invite a reader to take part in a real-world transmedia rabbit hole.
Initially separate storylines, the three inevitably join forces to combat a much larger conspiracy that hinges on international espionage and counterterrorism.
and its general fascination with the ways humans can screw up" makes All Our Wrong Todays "pure Vonnegut".
Setting When humanity sent generation ships to colonize the planet Mirabile, the cargo included seed banks and cryopreserved embryos of every Earth species the colonists might need, genetically engineered to produce more Earth species on cue.
Translations into English Given 1980s Cold War anxieties about the possible imminence of nuclear war between NATO and the Warsaw Pact, the book was translated into English in both Canada and the United Kingdom.
However, Borden's apparent poor health, age, and the duplicate Angier's resurgent sense of morality cause him to stop short of murdering the twin.
Gaunt is contacted by an old friend, Fereyd, who warns him that the army's superior, Lord General Dravere, is conspiring to supplant Warmaster Macaroth as supreme commander of the campaign, and something hidden on the campaign's next target world, Menazoid Epsilon, is vital to the conspiracy.
The reason that the Qattagon had gotten out of control and become a problem for Nor'Dyren was because the balance between the four groups had been engineered to be appropriate for worlds that were part of a large interstellar empire.
Due to Ryeland's anti-government actions in the past, the Plan of Man Computer deems him to be a security risk, so he is forced to wear a bomb-equipped collar, which he is hoping to be able to remove.
Titus's perspective also plays an important role in explaining the conditions of society—he speaks in the contemporary vernacular, expresses apathy towards the political events, and detests learning anything beyond what is required of him in School™.
In a mixed review, Budrys criticized Thomas's portrayal of human nature and wrote that he found the plot too meandering, but applauded its characterization of artificial intelligence.
Jason is deposited elsewhere on Elysium and makes his way to the nearby Moon City, the inhabitants of which he begins slaughtering, as a copy of Jason's essence is revealed to exist within Major Tom back in the abandoned Moon Camp Americana.
The later chapters of the story describe the weeks, months and years after the nuclear attack, and are almost exclusively set in Schewenborn.
The Hard-Boiled Wonderland narrative owes much to American hard-boiled detective fiction, as well as to science fiction and cyberpunk.
Together they form an uneasy alliance with The Comprise, the hive mind which rules Earth, and encounter Dysonworlders, who live on genetically engineered artificial comets (Dyson trees).
It contains an exclusive detailed description of Factions and their origin, the inspirations for the trilogy, a quiz on "Factions," and answers by Roth regarding the trilogy.
January 2002, paperback Notes References External links Space title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
The dialogue of Star Begotten makes brief references to Wells' earlier novel, referring to it as having been written by "Jules Verne, Conan Doyle, one of those fellows", as well as the concept of Big Brother, later written into George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four (1949).
"Bright Day": Roxy Kline, a recovering heroin addict, uploads her memories to Mandala and is ready to start a new life.
Each novel covers a specific case; all are Tek-related, but most include sub-plots which involve non-Tek issues and travel out of the GLA, occasionally to other countries or as far as orbiting satellites.
Panicked as his wife and child's deadline approaches, Asakawa tries to figure out why he was spared.
When Taverner arrives at her apartment, the former lover attacks him by throwing a parasitic life-form at him.
The story follows the heroine, Kate Telman, who is 38 and lusts after Stephen Buzetski, who is married.
It is then learned that a cybercrime has been committed in the massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) Avalon Four.
Rife has been using the Raft as a mechanism to indoctrinate and infect thousands with the virus and to import it to America.
Reviews The Los Angeles Times praised "a writer [who] describes something so well—snow, oranges, dirt—that you can smell it or feel it or sense it in the room." The New Yorker enjoyed Harding's "skillful evocation [and] mosaic of memories".
In effect, the network becomes the entire government and financial system, policing income for illegal money, freezing the accounts of criminals, while making sure money (or credit) flows to places where people are in need.
One of the main problems is that he cannot return to the real world to see his father (still in the hospital) or Reiko ever again.
Conclusion Giannine awakens in the arms of Nigel Rasmussem, who turns out to be just sixteen - the physical appearance he displayed earlier was actually his uncle's, and he was the physical model for Giannine's in-game crush Kenric.
Plot introduction Underlying the Basin and Range province of North America, giant caverns, some many miles in diameter, form a network that is occupied by people who have evolved the adaptations (such as pale skin) for living underground.
Fanon Two electronic books have been created by a fan and are considered canon by Baen Barflies, but the canonical status of such works is uncertain.
Og disappears after Wade obtains the First Shard and GSS employee Miles Gendell tells Wade that Nolan Sorrento has broken out of prison.
Compton originally published in 1968 as an Ace Science Fiction Special in the United States and in hardcover by Hodder & Stoughton in Great Britain.
It is written as the logbook of a nobleman who does experimental flights with a hot air balloon and makes stops in various European towns.
Postscript A framing device included in the collected edition, The Domination, is set several years after the events of Drakon.
He learns to survive by scavenging discarded food from littering motorists, and eventually comes to think of the island as his true home.
On behalf of BookPage, Colleen Cahill called GulliverZone "exciting", noting that it "is especially good for those interested in computers and virtual reality".
Plot summary The trilogy's story begins with an investigation by two New York City police detectives (Saul Goodman and Barney Muldoon) into the bombing of Confrontation, a leftist magazine, and the disappearance of its editor, Joe Malik.
Berry, Barck, and Proust believe that the involvement of Steve and Pinker in the study will jeopardize Genetico's $180 million sale to international conglomerate Landsmann, and with it Proust's presidential campaign.
Lisa works with sympathetic police officer, Lieutenant Michelle Delaware, to create a facial composite of the suspect.
He instructs the narrator in his duties, and keeps the narrator’s Shadow effectively a prisoner, putting him to work – disposing of dead beasts who die during winter.
Warp Drive and Field References: Miguel Alcubierre: Classical and Quantum Gravity: Volume 11: L73-L77: 1994.
Like many of Nagata's novels, it contains themes of nanotechnology and genetic engineering, as well as government and corporate corruption, in this case as suppressors of positive and liberating transhumanizing technology.
The novel was named a 2010 Hugo Award nominee in the category for Best Novel and won a 2009 Aurora Award.
Was the Command Line", Stephenson explained the title of the novel as his term for a particular software failure mode on the early Macintosh computer.
Angel has gathered information about the Flock's biological parents, and Max has a sudden vision instructing her to go to the School's other location in New York, the Institute for Higher Living.
The President agrees and launches the Changcheng Strategy, cutting off all telephone, satellite, and wireless communication with the rest of the world, so that word of the culling does not spread beyond China's borders.
It is a strange story of the electrical Daemon, treating of powers that dominate all nature, and written for the eager, alert, and striving American boy." Reprint editions In 1974, the novel was reprinted by Hyperion Press.
By 16 October 2022, Kösemen had written the expanded version up until the Qu's conquest of the galaxy.
Eventually, it is discovered that the entirety of the European network backbone—including its root keyservers—has been compromised by Chinese hackers.
The spheres, which he called Vitons, are sentient and mildly telepathic (they can read people’s minds if they get close enough); they also feed on the electrochemical energy of human emotions.
Jason kills the guard after being briefly unfrozen by Stein, while the interns are vivisected by Stein.
In Denver, Logan and his partner Nadine apprehend a suspect in illegal genetic engineering activities.
References External links Internet Speculative Fiction Database entry of The Clone Codes Library holdings of The Clone Codes
More than either of the previous stories, "Walt and Emily" delights in literary references and games.
From this, Duré realizes that the Bikura are actually the survivors of a group that had attempted to settle this remote region of Hyperion centuries earlier, but were thought lost and dead.
He simultaneously praised the book for posing questions about the impact of scientific advancements on society, calling it Crichton's "smartest novel" for this reason.
That being said, for horror fans who are looking for more chills than thrills, this series may not be the fit for you.
Independent Laboratories is working for the advancement of mankind, and Consolidated Power is working for personal gain.
It was a finalist for several science fiction and fantasy awards, including the Hugo Award and Locus Award.
Joi Ito's Review of Daemon Daemons: IT Keepsakes; Jim Rapoza, eWeek A Book Review: Don Donzal Archived 2017-12-05 at the Wayback Machine, Editor-in-Chief, The Ethical Hacker Network
He then finds out, in complete detail, events from the previous novels, navigating from different angles.
The short story "Jipi and the Paranoid Chip" takes place some time after the events of Cryptonomicon.
Plot summary Pollen is the sequel to Vurt and concerns the ongoing struggle between the real world and the virtual world.
His speculations here jump off the extrapolation track a bit, in my opinion, but they are fascinating, and the ending of this novel takes on a certain logic of its own.
When the Devil Dances (2002) (ISBN 0-7434-3540-0) After five years of battling invaders, human civilization prepares a strike to drive the aliens from the Earth.
Searching for individuals with psychic photography abilities, aided by several other clues from the footage, they find the record of Sadako Yamamura, a young woman born on Izu Oshima Island.
Parasite is a science fiction novel written by Mira Grant (a pseudonym of American author Seanan McGuire).
Devon and Trisha fail to stop Freddy from butchering the three Mnemonic employees but do call and warn Devon's girlfriend, Grace Simmons, and her friend, Ama Oduro, to destroy their copies of the nightmares while Devon checks in on Autumn.
Gunny will immediately go to Eelong and report back later with news while Bobby stays on Veelox because Saint Dane had mentioned that it is on the verge of destruction.
Rhine finds herself forced to marry Linden along with two other girls, 18-year-old Jenna and 13-year-old Cecily.
Drew learns to project these shapes in holographic form and becomes the Lucid Dreamer, a performance artist who places his viewers in a waking dream, the contents of which are determined by the holograms.
The two become fugitives, and Friday travels through the California Confederacy, the Lone Star Republic (where she parts from Georges), and the Chicago Imperium as she attempts to reach her headquarters.
They escape the facility in a helicopter shortly before the facility explodes due to a methane gas leak combined with thermite that Mae had placed in the building.
Crichton offered a rebuttal at the close of the novel which states that a "role-reversal" story uncovers aspects of the subject that would not be as easily seen with a female protagonist.
See also Artificial consciousness Simulation hypothesis Simulated reality Virtual reality References External links Simulacron-3 title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Martin's Press, 1987) X, Y (Dell, 1993) The Healer (Pyr, 2005) Short fiction Collections The Brains of Rats (Scream/Press, 1990).
The Equatorial Barrier contains six "Avenues" on either side of the barrier; each avenue leads up to the naked barrier.
Darwinia is a 1998 science fiction/alternate history novel by American-Canadian writer Robert Charles Wilson.
It also involved controversies where it the books main protagonist, Wade Watts, shows signs of possible objectifying the supporting protagonist of Art3mis, leading to controversies of misogyny.
Other film adaptations An apparently unauthorized adaptation of Crash called Nightmare Angel was filmed in 1986 by Susan Emerling and Zoe Beloff.
After 1927, the book describes an imaginary war from April 1930 to July 1932, in which Robert single-handedly helps the United States to win with his amazing inventions.
After a prologue which purports to explain the origin of the Silkies as an experiment in genetic manipulation, the action moves forward over a hundred years to a future in which the Silkies are numerous and live on Earth.
He suffers from bad dandruff and his skin is pocked by scars from procedures to remove cancerous growths.
The work is Abnett's first published novel, and was also the first novel published under Games Workshop's Black Library imprint.
Amid increasingly chaotic seas, a young Islander named Brett is swept overboard during a rogue wave and presumed lost.
He soon manages to bribe the hotel's clerk into taking him to Kathy Nelson, a forger of government documents.
It is the second book in his The Way series, dealing largely with the aftermath of the decision to split Axis City and abandon the Way in the preceding book, Eon.
He learns that Nennius, another cyborg, was monitoring or guiding Edward, even being the headmaster of his school.
Strathmore asks Fletcher's fiancé David Becker to travel to Seville and recover a ring that Tankado was wearing when he died.
All Tomorrows is yet to be physically published in English, however in July 2024 preorders on the crowdfunding site Unbound began for official hardback and e-book editions in the English language, including additional materials and artwork and the intent to publish 20/21 August 2025.
Plot The Color of Distance is a first-contact novel, detailing an encounter between human and alien cultures.
Alex gives TranceBox copies of the recorded nightmares to his younger brother, Devon, and five of Devon's friends, unknowingly granting more power to Freddy.
In 2017, Jake Kerridge, writing in The Daily Telegraph, declared it to be one of "the 20 best spy novels of all time." Plot summary Decoded tells the story of Rong Jinzhen, an orphaned genius.
It tells the story of "the world's first trillion dollar deal" against a backdrop of Wall Street dealmaking, Washington political intrigue, the relationship of two brothers, and international espionage.
The Mad Mind had devastated the galaxy and its civilizations before being imprisoned in a "strange artificial star" called the Black Sun.
He works in a sea paddock of the coast of Greece where he wrangles the manatees that are being raised to produce human organs for transplant.
These organs have been dosed with V16, engineered to rewrite the genetic codes of the patients into Galen's code.
The gamma ray burst reaches Earth shortly after the conference, destroying the atmosphere and causing a mass extinction.
It is the fourth and final installment in the authorized Blade Runner continuation series, following Blade Runner 3: Replicant Night.
And, secondly, to benefit from the commercial advantages of the Way (despite the risk that the Jarts will be waiting on the other side).
The book revisits the idea of the interaction of humans with Martians, which Wells had first (and famously) presented in The War of the Worlds (1898).
It is a fix-up of her short stories set on the planet Mirabile, which were originally published in Asimov's Science Fiction beginning in 1989; the compilation was published by Tor Books.
During the same time Kenneth Lafarge comes to Earth/2, ending up in a cornfield somewhere in Illinois.
With the aid of the grownup offspring of Lord and Lady Blaine, raised in the company of Mediators brought back by the first expedition, Bury and Renner fight to save the Empire.
Being hard SF, Ark contains many references to unrealised or hypothesised technology (Project Orion, the Alcubierre drive), physics (antimatter), and hypotheses about extraterrestrial life.
GSS employee Faisal Sodhi calls for a GSS co-owners meeting as people keep hacking the ONI headsets to exceed the twelve-hour usage limit.
The title derives from the novel's fictional practice of stage illusions having three parts: the setup, the performance, and the prestige (effect).
A second storyline involves Richard Fettle, a good friend of the murderer, also an untherapied writer, who must come to terms with what happened to his friend and how his artists' lives, and all of the untherapied must change.
Og's character and relationship with Halliday were inspired by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, with Morrow being more like Jobs as a "charismatic tech leader", while his avatar's name is inspired by the Wizard of Oz.
"Wreck City" – Once again set in the "Tech City", now a derelict, trash-ridden city where those abandoned by the corporate-controlled society struggle to survive.
Synopsis Setting In the 2040s, the world has been gripped by an energy crisis from the depletion of fossil fuels and the consequences of pollution, global warming, and overpopulation, causing widespread social problems, poverty, and economic stagnation.
Reviewing for The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction, the science fiction editor and critic Algis Budrys described ME as "a peculiar book I'm very glad to have read".
In the Foreword, Gann hinted that this book is more than just a novel because it "contains a valuable secret, clothed in veiled language.
When one of the project's scientists dies, David Tennant, the ethical caretaker, discovers that he had been killed for his refusal to accept the project's ultimate aim; a merger of the human mind and the machine, in order to produce an unrivalled super computing machine.
They discover that a large shipment of drones have been transported via the ship Ebba Maersk, in a path that will intercept an American navy ship.
Alex, connecting the crystal to his personal computer, enters Edgar's virtual world and meets the boy.
This proves to be a normal stage in the life-cycle of an inhabited solar system; the galaxies are revealed to be filled with such Matrioshka brains.
He feels that it is sucking in his conscious into another world - and desires it to do so - because of his resentment toward his dull life.
He and Mieli escape a liberated Mars having recovered only a mysterious "Schrödinger’s Box" from the Memory Palace.
The next story, entitled "Vermilion Level", was written out to novel length as First and Only and published in 1999.
Spotted by the combatants and fired upon, the two men run for their lives and get separated from each other in the confusion.
Painfully dated, but a must for the collector's library." South Korean writer Djuna cited the work as one that has significantly influenced them in their youth, at the same time noting that "It hasn’t aged well, and it’s particularly criticized for its racist depiction of Asians".
Two Outsider scientists, Luz and Ian, landed on the surface to look for Movement technology and rescue as many locals as they could before the ondat began scouring the planet.
A more mixed review appeared in the London Review of Books, and The Telegraph gave it a relatively neutral review.
Invasive Procedures (2007) is a medical thriller by American writers Orson Scott Card and Aaron Johnston.
Sadako Yamamura: The book's unseen antagonist, who vanished 30 years ago and is also the person behind the incident of the cursed tape.
Kate's story is related to a traumatic event that happened when she was five years old, in which she witnessed her father murder a small boy.
He discovers that Lionel secretly turned the engine back on again, but did not show it to the world.
The novel closes with an email addressed to Hackman that resembles a 419 scam from a Nigerian banker, implying that is where he hid the money.
Allusions/references to actual history, geography and current science New Syon House in the story is a fictional building in London.
King said that the book was "terrific page-turning fun" and Cussler commenting that it is: A brilliantly conceived thriller that could well become horrific reality.
Nature goes berserk, and James Ferguson, the leader of Independent, discovers that Jevic, the Director of Consolidated, has achieved his goal.
Jason murders Bardox, whose last dying act is to rouse London back to consciousness by screaming, "Save yourself!" Jason chases London through the crumbling space station and to the shuttle bay, but London escapes into space in a damaged shuttle, leaving Jason behind on what is left of G7.
The level after that is a snow-covered landscape, where Bobby has to finish a race called slickshot in which six skaters need to pick up red balls and put them into buckets.
Details of the plot do differ, especially from the 1954 film; however, given that these novellas were written by the same author who drafted the scenarios for the famous films, they continue to be read by generations of Japanese readers even today.
Assisted by a security agent and a mathematician, Rand sets out to destroy Project 79 before it is too late.
When the orphanage is attacked by locals who fear the Nexus enhanced children, Jakob arranges a move to another orphanage for him and the children, but cannot bring Sam along.
Realgar, still grieving the death of Berenice but obeying orders, returns to Shora to force the Sharers to obey Patriarchal rule and Valan law.
Sandra Wilford vindictively presents Mendle evidence that his “Dream Lover” is a mere mundane mortal: A driver's license identifying his mystical Aira Flight as a woman from Illinois.
Frank discovers that the vast caverns comprising the realms of Wu and Zu span hundreds of miles, primarily under Nevada, Utah, and Arizona.
In the second half of the book, his genetically engineered son Theobald is born, the climax of generations of genetic engineering and selective breeding and a genetically perfect human.
Caidin revisited this theme a few years later in his novel, Cyborg, which was eventually adapted into the 1970s television series The Six Million Dollar Man.
Some Sharers are willing to attempt violence, while some Valans, both male and female, embrace the Sharer lifestyle and ideals.
Plot summary The novel follows Polly, an ordinary homeless teenager from the near future and Tack, a soldier mentally programmed for obedience to his superiors.
Conner (operating a robotic weapon designed in another stub under Lowbeer's influence) and Burton (operating a peripheral-like exoskeleton) break into the room where Flynne and Wilf are being held.
Pallas is captured by Ma'elKoth, the Emperor of Overworld's human kingdom of Ankhana, on one of her adventures.
It starred Akshay Kumar and Priyanka Chopra in Douglas and Moore's roles with Kareena Kapoor as Kumar's wife.
Its mentality was alien and powerful enough that it took over or killed many of the researchers who attempted to connect to and study it, so it was hidden away deep in the Stone.
And so we colonize, and build." The self-replicating spacecraft are named Gaijin (Japanese for "foreigner"), after their discovery by a Japanese observer on the Moon.
The Star Maker is the creator of the universe, but stands in the same relation to it as an artist to his work, and calmly assesses its quality without any feeling for the suffering of its inhabitants.
A user's skill in managing and producing augmented reality manifests itself in the details of the augmentation.
Television films and series The TekWar novels became a television franchise with TV films in 1994, then a series.
The duplicate Juno has been hollowed out along its long axis, subdivided into seven cylindrical chambers, and rotates to provide artificial gravity.
At the end of the story, it is revealed that the end of time is swiftly approaching and that the universe, the Earth, and all the consciousness that ever existed are really being preserved in a computer-like simulation known as the Archive.
The Glis openly threatens to destroy all Silkies if Cemp moves against it, as the asteroid moves many light-years from the Sun.
One of these survivors calls himself "President Charles Manson," but none of the Apollo's crew understood the historical reference.
When Loki massacres the task force, the Major contains the situation by destroying all evidence (including leveling the building) and personally executing Roy Merritt, fearful that Merritt's pursuit of Loki will attract too much attention.
Plot The story is roughly divided into two parts: before and after 1927, the year in which it was written.
On their way to Elveston she says that Eric broke off their engagement because of her evident discomfort with Eric's lukewarm faith.
After Jason slays two of the station's personnel, Andre Desjardines and Doctor Brandi Essex Williams, Bardox, oblivious to Jason's presence on G7, knocks the rest of the station's crew out by tampering with the air and sets to work modifying the genetic samples he took from Jason.
In Dick's book, the police chief, Felix Buckman, meets a black stranger at an all-night gas station, and uncharacteristically makes an emotional connection with him.
Star Maker tackles philosophical themes such as the essence of life, of birth, decay and death, and the relationship between creation and creator.
Set in a near-future dystopia, the narrative follows Case, a computer hacker enlisted into a crew by a powerful artificial intelligence and a traumatised former soldier to complete a high-stakes heist.
There, Lacan claims that the formation and reassurance of the self depends on the construction of an Other through imagery, beginning with a double as seen in the mirror.
The Ousters have mutated physically, believing that they should adapt to their outer-space surroundings rather than adapt the surroundings themselves.
The novel continues the story of Rick Deckard and other characters as they navigate complex conspiracies surrounding replicants, corporate intrigue, and the ongoing question of what it means to be human.
Priest seems fascinated with reality and how our consciousness creates our reality, and as such could hardly be expected to resist the temptation presented by a subject such as extremely realistic VR simulations.
It limits the excessive reproduction rate that has condemned the Moties to Cycles of overpopulation, followed inevitably by war and the collapse of civilization.
Within the Metaverse, Hiro is offered a datafile named Snow Crash by a man named Raven, who hints that it is a form of narcotic.
All of the twenty-three crew members came down with acute radiation poisoning, and one, Aikichi Kuboyama, died within the year.
See also Autassassinophilia References External links The Terminal Collection: JG Ballard First Editions Crash Archived 5 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine at the British Library
Eventually, a character named Khedron the Jester helps Alvin use the central computer to find a way out of the city of Diaspar.
He assigns his best agent, Nat Dickstein, to steal about two hundred tons of uranium ore for Israel, to pre-empt the potential Egyptian threat and to enable them to build a nuclear bomb themselves.
This snowballing process is paralleled by the expansion of the book's scale, describing more and more planets in less and less detail.
Augmented reality In the novel, augmented reality is dominant, with humans interacting with virtual overlays of reality almost all of the time.
Genre and subject matter Cryptonomicon is closer to the genres of historical fiction and contemporary techno-thriller than to the science fiction of Stephenson's two previous novels, Snow Crash and The Diamond Age.
The device sends the data to a miniature computer, or "eyePod", which reprocesses the signals and returns them.
U-T San Diego and the Denver Post both gave positive reviews, with U-T San Diego calling it a "whopping good story".
The campaign reached its goal in only ten days, suggesting an ongoing public awareness and cult-like fondness for the novel.
In other works At the end of Sherlock Holmes's War of the Worlds (1975), Professor Challenger indicates that the "Martians" (not really from Mars in the story) from The War of the Worlds are the same Martians from Star Begotten, and hints at the start of the Martian alteration program.
Overall, Eye and Talon has been recognized for reinforcing the thematic continuity of the Blade Runner novels while providing a suspenseful and morally complex finale, cementing Jeter’s role in extending the Blade Runner literary legacy.
Back on the farm she finally rushes at Sir Deming in frustration and tries to bite his ring off his finger, but he takes out a knife and stabs her.
Julius finally "cracks" when he sees his dreams turned to dust and he bashes up the attractions in the Hall of Presidents, in the process also damaging his own cranial interface to the point that he can no longer back himself up.
Though the Martians attempt to destroy the fleet using their device, they underestimate the power of the battleships' guns, which succeed in destroying the Collector.
During a test of the generator an error occurs and before she can get clear she is caught by the wormhole and is sent to an alternate Earth, called Earth/2.
A 1949 musical film features Bing Crosby and Rhonda Fleming, with music by Jimmy Van Heusen and Victor Young.
The Tendu elder Anito, initially tasked with Juna's survival and resenting her deeply, eventually comes to assume full responsibility for Juna as her atwa, a Tendu word signifying a domain of specialized knowledge and expertise.
Groups gather to defend their rights to the swimming pools, and party-goers attack "enemy floors" to raid and vandalise them.
Almost all humans possess neural computer interfaces known as "augs", which allow them to access online information, view augmented reality displays, translate speech in real-time and operate telepresence robots.
"The Screen Game" has no unusual technologies, but an unusual aesthetic - jewels and screens dominate.
While at school, Caitlin decides to take a break from her work and switches the eyePod to duplex mode so she can look through websight.
Galen takes his research underground, eventually devising a virus that can carry specific genes into human cells.
D always wears a mystical blue pendant; it prevents many of the automatic defenses (such as laser fields and small nuclear blasters) created by the Nobility in past millennia from working properly and allows him to enter their sealed castles.
The two travel to Kamakura, where Ryūji knows someone with a personal archive of paranormal cases from Japan.
Lindsay's partner, Wellspring, plans to use the colony to promote his post-humanist ideology, while Lindsay himself seeks to bring Nora to the new colony.
Critical reception Sharanya Manivannan of GQ India wrote "The Machine is Learning is a timely reminder of the stark human cost of tech’s unstoppable march" and Percy Bharucha of Hindustan Times wrote "A novel whose characters are at the heart of the man-versus-machine debate".
Plot summary A group of lawyers are meeting to take down Telecon corporations when suddenly they are all hit with a rhinovirus that the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) classifies as "CaV".
Before he died, Fereyd tried to convince Gaunt that the Men of Iron could have been used to aid the Imperial forces as much as the Chaos forces.
When discovered, he quickly triggers an attack which leaves most of the people and agents there dead.
Literary historian Jeffrey Angles has argued that Kayama used these novellas, which he penned himself, as a means to reassert his nuclear message.
Awards Manifold: Space was named by Library Journal as one of the best Science Fiction and Fantasy books of 2001.
The book proposes that, while Eli's life was saved by avoiding the Huntington's disease gene, his concept of life and self were destroyed when he found out he was genetically engineered to be a certain way.
They were intended to be used as a space labor force, superbly adapted to zero-gravity work (where legs would be merely a hindrance).
They inhabit advanced underwater cities, enjoying superior technology, medicine, and overall quality of life.
Gibson recorded an abridged version of the novel as cassette-based audiobook in 1995, which a reviewer for Wired found somewhat disappointing but repeated praise for the novel itself.
He immediately finds out that a clause in the contract prevents him from doing just that, as he must pay off his 150,000 credit insurance policy, which will require Tikkirey to serve another 1.5 years on the ship.
Though his intentions (to protect the Wetchik's funds, as per his job) are originally good, he is overwhelmed by his own power after first becoming the Wetchik himself and then taking over Gaballufix's position.
Vatueil is a soldier who has fought his way up the ranks of the war game to a position where he can determine policy.
Even while pointing out the flaws in Crichton's science, in Prey, multiple critics have praised the book's impact and overall message.
The book envisages a world with fictional parasites, where people's immune systems are maintained by genetically engineered tapeworms.
The ondat, via Procyon, are now closer to Marak's World and is able to watch the planet's rebirth first hand.
She travels the world, at one point being summoned by a weapon-collecting higher-up in Nebraska to talk his nephew out of writing an incendiary anti-Islamic screenplay.
This story was first released in 2012 in serialized tweet format via The New Yorker's Twitter account under the title "Black Box".
Jason goes on a killing spree, sparking a riot in which gangs of inmates go berserk, committing murders and gang-raping Anyar and Blister.
Ryter, Spaz and Bean are then thrown out of Eden because the elders who rule over Eden decide they are unacceptable.
Sam takes Nexus 5, connecting her mind with the others, and they discover who she is and Kade uses Nexus to knock her out.
In the next latch, the group sees everything burning and finds Lanaya being attacked by very hungry people.
In the future, Britain is somewhat resurgent as a country, despite being wracked by domestic terrorism.
All references in the novel, however, place it in the 22nd century, with the 20th and 21st being mentioned in the past.
Plot summary Seven years after the events of Heroes Die, Hari Michaelson (also known as Caine) is a puppet executive on the Studio he used to work for.
Deckard meets and kills a Soviet police contact who turns out to be one of the Nexus-6 renegades in disguise.
The film nonetheless received criticism for its lack of character development and its "achingly regressive" view of pop culture fans.
When Burton heads to another town to counter-protest the protests of a religious extremist group known as Luke 4:5, he asks her to take over his job working security in a video game/virtual world for a supposedly Colombian company called Milagros Coldiron.
She trains him and his brother in psychokinesis in an effort to get the Imperial Corps to leave Andrecia peacefully.
To maintain America’s edge, Silas’s superior engages an experimental supercomputer to design the ultimate combatant, producing a monster unlike anything ever seen.
Again, exposition is invariably followed by explanation, the cold hysteria of the former giving way to the innumerable ramifications of the latter.
Popular culture references The song "Vermilion Sands" on the Buggles album Adventures In Modern Recording is probably referring to this collection.
See also Horror fiction Gothic fiction Japanese literature Ring References External links SaruDama - contains reviews of Loop and other Suzuki novels.
After Volemak embarks on a series of seemingly ill-advised actions, Rashgallavik takes control of the money.
The group is then taken to a factory to meet Ada and Inna, where, after a verbal joust, Stas reveals that the Empire has begun a massive invasion of all Iney-occupied worlds, using a modified version of Inna Snow's program to remove Iney's propaganda from the affected people's minds.
However, around the world, children are falling victim to a disease known as Tandagore Syndrome, which in its most serious form is a deep coma from which the patient cannot wake.
Renner and Bury travel to Sparta, the Imperial capital planet, to obtain permission to inspect the blockade.
He described the storyline, the endless treks back and forth across the desert, as "Idiot-Plot circumbendibus", adding that it "walks in its own bitter water".
When the Ousters attack a Hegemony colony world, Kassad uses brutal guerrilla warfare tactics to push them back.
The knight Sir Sagramor wears it to fight Hank, who pretends that he cannot see Sagramor for effect to the audience.
Kuroda speculates that the background is made up of cellular automata, which Caitlin suggests is caused by corrupted packet loss.
His search leads him to Hakone Pacific Land, a holiday resort where the youths were together one week before their deaths.
Plot summary Renegade biotechnologist Vergil Ulam creates simple biological computers based on his own lymphocytes.
He is a regular reviewer for print magazines Asimov's Science Fiction, The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction, Science Fiction Eye, The New York Review of Science Fiction, Interzone and Nova Express, as well as online at Science Fiction Weekly.
They are aided by Queets Twisp, Brett’s employer, and Bushka, an Islander traumatized after being coerced into piloting the attack that destroyed the island.
Awards and honors In September 2010, the novel won the 2010 Hugo Award for Best Novel category, tying with China Miéville's The City & the City.
In 1994, a group of ex-Yugoslavian writers in Amsterdam, who had established the PEN centre of Yugoslav Writers in Exile, published a single issue of the literary journal Erewhon.
Plot summary The protagonist of the novel is Rebel Elizabeth Mudlark, the recorded personality of a dead woman which has become the property of a corporation that intends to sell it as entertainment.
Plot summary Vurt tells the story of Scribble and his "gang", the Stash Riders, as they search for his missing sister Desdemona.
Eventually he does, aided by another attendant, and the two find their way to the docks and board a ship.
As sudden Shrike Cult uprisings devastate major Hegemony planets, Severn travels to Pacem and encounters Father Duré, who had been transported to Pacem by the Shrike.
Two alliances coalesce, one in favor of peaceful co-existence with humans and another determined to escape the Motie system at any cost.
While the film hammers you over the head with clues about the final twist, so much so that you feel embarrassed when re-watching it, Priest's novel is more subtle, although a smart reader is in on the trick from the start.
The review said that Egan's "once-mighty imaginative muscles have atrophied during his long break from writing".
Kelly loses respect when she amputates the instigator as punishment, which increases Wilson's power.
She meets several major figures in British history but is no closer to discovering the secret behind the tor which is leeching off her energy and life.
Colossus and the Crab is a 1977 science fiction novel by the British author Dennis Feltham Jones (writing as D.
Gianni Vittoria: Former Italian Minister for Economic Affairs, sometime Minister for Transhuman Affairs, economic theoretician.
During the course of the next few months, it becomes clear that Frankfurt, Berlin and major German cities, as well as the adjacent Netherlands and Czechoslovakia were also targeted, given the arrival of seriously burnt and radiation-scarred refugees from those areas.
At the opening night reception Sam discovers Narong is a known associate of Suk Prat-Nung, a nephew of Thanom Prat-Nung, a Thai Drug Dealer.
Georgia Zoo, fearing about the contamination between the captive chimpanzee and bonobo bloodlines, demand Hobo be returned to them so that he can be sterilized.
After running afoul of some hackers from the Philippines, he allows his criminal partner to be killed in his place.
SF Signal also wrote a positive review and stated that although they felt that the explanation of Webmind's existence was overly long, the novel as a whole was exemplary.
Novel-sized ideas are almost thrown away...You do have to concentrate; it’s rather like watching a particularly Moffat-esque episode of the modern Doctor Who.
At the pool, Ela puts half of her crown galls into the mud, hoping to save any LOVs which had reached the water.
Plot Victor Frank and his wife Marsha, unable to have a second child due to Marsha's infertility, turn to surrogacy as an alternate method of conception.
Laney and Sebeck journey around the country, witnessing important events in the history of the Daemon.
During a brief contact with Earth/1, she learns the Samothracians attacked Earth but were beaten back "only just." Both Carmaggio and Lafarge decide that this is their best and only chance they have to stop Gwendolyn.
An unabridged audiobook was released by Audible Frontiers on 7 April 2009, coinciding with the date of American publication.
Victor soon finds himself inside a laboratory built by V.J., where he has solved many of the biochemical problems Victor had been researching.
Frank works his way up the social scale and also discovers a hidden way to turn off Wu's air supply.
The virus is capable of burning computers away, but she is unaware that the virus has become self-aware and is killing humans by electrocuting them at the keyboards on PCs or using CaV as a weapon.
When humans come to Nor'Dyren, they discover that there are three specialized types of Nor'Dyrenese.
Lee's Greater Hong Kong", or the corporatized American Mafia), or various residential burbclaves (quasi-sovereign gated communities).
However, during the evolutionary process, the species became non-viable on the North American continent and Caribbean area, leaving them free of Yilanè for millions of years and opening an ecological niche for a top predator.
Pavel Mirsky had elected to go with the Geshels down the Way more than thirty years ago, after which the Way had been sealed off.
Phil Chartrukian, an NSA technician who is unaware of the Digital Fortress code breaking failure and believes Digital Fortress to be a virus, conducts his own investigation into whether Strathmore allowed Digital Fortress to bypass Gauntlet, the NSA's virus/worm filter.
She has several telephone conversations with her therapy-damaged friend Luce in California, who provides a cynical, suspicious, foul-mouthed counterpoint to Kate's goodheartedness.
He eventually proceeded after concluding that the public's fascination with dinosaurs "was permanent." The novel began as a screenplay, completed by Crichton in 1983, about a graduate student who recreates a pterosaur.
This was possible because the Qattagon were not capable of reproducing; Qattagon were the result of interbreeding among the other three groups.
Major themes Consciousness The exploration of consciousness is the central thematic element of Blindsight.
Gamergate criticism The review of Ready Player One in a "post-gamergate cultural landscape" was mostly negative towards Ready Player One.
After his notebook is stolen, however, Rong suffers a nervous breakdown from which he never recovers.
Modern advancements in gene studies currently can detect and, in some cases, even predict the presence of a genetic abnormality.
Black Emperor listed it on their recommended reading list to coincide with their appearance at and curation of the All Tomorrow's Parties festival in 2010.
The story ends with Malenfant helping the Gaijin build a shield to prevent a pulsar from sterilising a large part of the galaxy.
Media Film adaptation In May 2017, Netflix acquired film rights to the novel with Scott Free’s Ridley Scott, Kevin Walsh and Michael Pruss producing the film.
The Moties scatter, and three human ships cannot possibly capture all of them, though they can block the exit.
In a review in The Washington Post, he said the book has an "ingenuous plot" that winds its way through alternate realities, and tackles the familiar problems of time travel "in fascinating new ways".
Criss teaches Farr to board (using a specially constructed plate to "surf" along the flux lines), an ability which allows him to escape from the eventual attack by the Xeelee.
After Kerrick escapes he joins other humanoid tribes and journeys over the mountains, being pursued all the while by Vaintè, who wants nothing more than the absolute destruction of the ustuzou.
It is the first in The Jenna Fox Chronicles trilogy, which also includes Fox Inheritance and Fox Forever.
Increasingly erratic, it attempts to warn Forbin of a threat from outer space that it was preparing to meet, but breaks down before it can complete the message.
He finds Tamaya and Chad, who have become closer, and assists the group out of the woods; during which he almost immediately notices the rash, of which he has, too, become a victim.
Initially feared by her parents to be a latent, she awakens her powers at age twelve and enrolls in Sage Academy alongside her peers—Satoru Asahina, Maria Akizuki, Mamoru Itou, Shun Aonuma, and Reiko Amano.
In June 2012, it was announced that English director Joe Cornish, following his 2011 debut film Attack the Block, had been signed as director of a future film adaptation for Paramount Pictures.
Virtual Azimi enables football fans to play games with Azimi's proxy, and it is a huge success, boosting Zendegi's popularity.
This last species of man devises a method of panspermia, a virus to broadcast life to other worlds and ultimately cause the evolution of new sentient species throughout the galaxy.
She is returning from her latest mission when she is captured, tortured, raped and interrogated by an enemy group.
Dembowska Cartel: an entity ostensibly governed by Michael Carnassus, a revered pioneer of an alien embassy, the Cartel is controlled and monitored by 'the Wallmother', the character Kitsune who has abandoned human form for an ever-growing mass of flesh.
The second half of The Gripping Hand is a tale of shifting alliances involving many Motie factions, diplomacy and space combat.
The award is named for the mythical bird phoenix, which is reborn from its ashes, to suggest the book's rise from obscurity.
The star shrinks slightly as it cools, causes the crust to crack and produce mountains 5 to 100 millimeters (0.20 to 3.94 inches) high.
In the aftermath, it is revealed that Vata has merged with the kelp, existing within its collective awareness.
Plot summary The novel is narrated by protagonist Jack Forman, an unemployed software programmer and a stay-at-home husband.
Luz's people negotiated with the ondat to give them time to undo the Ila's makers with their own more advanced nanoceles, and prevent the ondat from destroying the planet.
The Games is a 2012 science fiction novel by Ted Kosmatka, exploring the effects of advances in artificial intelligence and genetics on sport.
Though sentient superintelligent AGI has never been successfully developed, civilization has been greatly transformed by the proliferation of Hansonian brain emulations (termed "gogols" in reference to Nikolai Gogol, and in particular his novel Dead Souls).
The world has become an economic utopia; the "economic dividend" is so high that work has become optional.
Characters Professor Charles Forbin — The Director of Staff for Colossus and its chief human representative.
As a 15-year-old boy, once a victim of hatred and disdain, he now finds himself in a position of wealth, power, and complete control over people.
While the story is entirely fictional, Pausewang confirmed in the book's epilogue that she created its main setting, the small town of Schewenborn, in the image of Schlitz in East Hesse, where she herself used to live.
Stuck on the island because of a heavy storm, the two aren't able to unearth any clues leading them to solve the mystery.
It was first published as four installments in Analog from December 1987 to February 1988, and was included in the 2007 omnibus Miles, Mutants and Microbes.
In the graphic novel Bye Bye, Earth (2000), Belle's sword is called "Erewhon", and the story makes reference to the novel Erewhon.
After examining the video more closely, Ando manages to identify the apartment building where he believes it was filmed.
References External links Maximum Ride, via Concept Farm Maximum Ride, via Hodder Headline James Patterson http://www.maximumride.blogspot.com
Plot summary Hammerfall takes place on an unspecified planet, where the Ila, believed to be a god and immortal, rules the Lakht, a huge desert, and all its villages from the holy city of Oburan.
Florimel—A German woman who is just as strong-willed as Renie, although not as forthright with her story and motivation.
At roughly the same time Cowper was working on The Road to Corlay, Christopher Priest was creating a similarly drowned Britain in A Dream of Wessex.
The story is interpreted as showing a merger between technology, sexuality, and death, and he further argued that by pointing out Vaughan's character takes and keeps photos of the car crashes and the mutilated bodies involved.
Ted eventually heads to the Moon in a spacecraft of his own design, and meets the titular character, who turns out to be the beautiful woman from the transmission, as well as a princess of one of the two groups that inhabit the Moon.
The doctor admitted to being infatuated with Sadako and, as if guided by something beyond himself, raped her in an abandoned cabin deep in the woods, in the process infecting her with smallpox and learning she was intersex.
A few other stories not set in Vermilion Sands are comparable because of their similar artistic games, especially "Sound-Sweep" (1960, on music/opera) and "Passport to Eternity" (1962, full of decadent trends and live fashions).
Root is officially pronounced dead, but is slipped away, rapidly recovering after a mysterious therapeutic agent is obtained from his antique cigar box.
The events occur six to eight hundred years after the "Chel Debacle", depicted in the earlier novel Look to Windward which is set seventy-eight years after the events in Use of Weapons.
As well as normal hardback and paperback editions, it was released as a free e-book under the CC BY-NC-ND license.
Rebel escapes by taking over the body of Eucrasia Walsh, a woman who rents herself out for temporary testing of new wetware programming.
Reception Ursula Le Guin, while criticizing exposition and sentimentality, thought the novel a worthwhile and cautionary tale.
The plot follows an expedition to a North America rendered uninhabitable by an ecological disaster following an energy crisis.
Instead of reporting him, however, the old lady feeds him and asks him to tell her what is happening.
Singh—Known better by the name "Blue Dog Anchorite", who is the only surviving member of the group of technicians that designed Otherland and a well-known member of Treehouse.
As the novel draws to a close, Theobald suspects that his unborn sister is the reincarnation of Carvala, a government official who died shortly after meeting with Felix's wife and enquiring on when she would have a daughter.
It is told from the perspective of Roland Bennewitz, a 12-year-old boy from Bonames (a district of Frankfurt), who travels with his parents and sisters to visit his grandparents in Schewenborn.
The narrator is a "Calcutec" (計算士, keisanshi), a human data processor and encryption system who has been trained to use his subconscious as an encryption key.
In April 2024 he has announced the release of a physical copy of the book, but only in Thai language.
Awards and nominations Buxtehuder Bulle, 1983 Zürcher Kinderbuchpreis (Zürich children's literature prize) Preis der Leseratten Gustav-Heinemann-Friedenspreis (Gustav Heinemann peace prize) == References ==
The central plot focuses on a feud between the magicians, begun in the fledgling years of their careers when Borden disrupts a fake seance being conducted by Angier and his pregnant wife Julia after they had conducted a previous one for one of Borden's relatives.
The relationship between the two groups is simple: the System protects data while the Semiotecs steal it, although it is suggested that one man might be behind both.
It predates the Roman Catholic Church, and descends from a consortium of merchants in the Roman Empire which it even owned for sixty-six days (it hired a man to become emperor, but he lasted less than a month before being assassinated; a reference to the emperor Didius Julianus).
The God Machine is a science-fiction novel by American writer Martin Caidin first published in 1968.
Blue Remembered Earth is a science fiction novel by Welsh author Alastair Reynolds, first published by Gollancz on 19 January 2012.
Nemoto – Lunar Japanese woman who mysteriously lives for many centuries, guiding humanity against the 'alien threat' Dorothy Chaum – Catholic priest assigned by the pope to talk with the Gaijin at their first human contact on Earth.
References External links Locus Solus at Gutenberg.org (in French) Locus Solus (in French) Locus Solus: An Inappropriate Translation Composed in a 21st Century Manner, by Mark Amerika
The source of the phrase turns out to be innocuous enough — the governor picked up the expression as a crewman on INSS MacArthur on the expedition to Mote Prime — but the memories dredged up are too much for Bury.
In 1999, a second manga was made by Misao Inagaki, which took elements from the novel, film, and TV versions of the Ring.
Plot introduction Teresa Simons is drawn to a quiet English seaside town in the aftermath of an apparently motiveless massacre by a gunman.
While investigating suspicious economic activity on the planet Maxroy's Purchase, Renner and Bury encounter wide idiomatic usage of the phrase "...on the gripping hand".
Bob Franklin: Billionaire investor; originator of the Franklin Collective, a "borganism" composed of multiple bodies sharing the same mind.
The Reverend Tad Tadd—a charismatic preacher who at first is adamantly opposed to making changes to the natural human body but later has a change of heart.
The first sentence opens the story on New Year's Day 1943—a future date at the time of writing—and describes the fundamental transformations in society as the result of a new mystical source of virtually free energy.
His appearance and personality are described in the book as being "a cross between Albert Einstein and Santa Claus".
Publication history Beginning in January 1983, Kikuchi has written 41 Vampire Hunter D novels spanning 53 volumes as of April 2023.
We could send our forces to fight and die (as only humans can) against a ravening horde that was literally feeding on its interstellar conquests, or remain as we were: virtually weaponless and third in line for brunch.
https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lkh&AN=88221916&lang=ru&site=eds-live&scope=site External links Excerpt
Key to their strategy is a genetically altered parasite developed by the Blaines' research institute.
novelist to Pulitzer", By Geoff Edgers, The Boston Globe, April 15, 2010 Photos of the first edition of Tinkers
Halliday's announcement leads to intense competition among "Gunters" (egg hunters) as well as global telecommunications conglomerate Innovative Online Industries (IOI) sponsoring a well-funded effort to find the Easter egg in order to take control of the OASIS and monetize it.
Choosing exile to protect his family, he leaves them a journal and a letter explaining his actions and his hope for a future where humanity can navigate its perils with compassion.
Plot concepts Stross describes humanity's situation in Accelerando as dire: In the background of what looks like a Panglossian techno-optimist novel, horrible things are happening.
Within the novel, humans no longer engage in sex with other humans for pleasure, instead choosing to use virtual reality to find idealized partners, and many choose to withdraw from reality entirely by living in constructed virtual worlds, referred to as "Heaven".
the problem with Snow Crash is not that it isn't true—after all, it's a story—but that it isn't inspirational".
Goldreich-Tremaine Council State Home of the Mavrides and Vetterling gene-lines, Goldreich-Tremaine flourishes during détente while the Shaper 'military-academic' complex has a privileged relationship with the alien Investors.
The unwritten, second story was to tell how the Quaddies settled into what would be known as "Quaddiespace".
It should have been impossible for him to return, but one day he quietly re-appears on Earth to deliver an urgent message.
Ryu Aoki, a machine repairman in Tokyo, tells the story of a prank that he and his friend Jun pulled on an elderly factory worker named Mr.
Set in modern Britain, its plot concerns laboratory-engineered gene mutation at the Splice of Life Patentable Biosciences lab and the chaos that follows when it goes wrong.
Jaidee's replacement and former protégé, Kanya, discovers the new plague and sets about trying to contain it while dealing with guilt of being Akkarat's mole and betraying Jaidee.
The computer creates bodies for the people of Diaspar to live in and stores their minds in its memory at the end of their lives.
Plot introduction The protagonist, Larry Dever, is gravely injured resulting in a radical surgical procedure, a hemicorporectomy, in which tissue below the waist is removed.
Archos says that humanity no longer needs to pursue knowledge because he will now take over that task.
The ERD describe a mission to spy on Su-Yong Shu, a brilliant Chinese neuroscientist who is implicated in murder and brain control coercion.
in 2021, and spurred author Neal Stephenson himself to found a company in 2022 called Lamina1 to support the creation of virtual worlds using blockchain technology.
Despite these measures, in 2007 invalid DMCA takedown notices were sent by Science Fiction Writers of America (SFWA) with regard to this novel.
Firstly, to learn what has happened to the Geshels' long-sundered brethren (who took their portion of Axis City down the Way at relativistic near-light speed).
in its entirety at The National Theatre in London was met with surprisingly open arms, particularly given its inordinate length: a cycle of five plays—The Eye of the Pyramid, Swift Kick Inc., The Man Who Murdered God, Walpurgisnacht Rock and Leviathan—each consisting of five 23-minute acts.
Reception Publishers Weekly calls Kosmatka's debut a gripping and gory near-future thriller in which genetic engineering and jingoism prove to be a terrify-ing combination.
He sees a copy of Time magazine, with himself on the cover as Man of the Year, in a military uniform, at the factory depicted in the model.
Outside the police academy, Taverner is approached by Alys Buckman, Felix's hypersexual sister and lover.
What posters are on their bedroom walls?" Friends from Microsoft and Apple also helped him with research.
Synopsis A Dream of Wessex can be read as a straightforward story about a group of twentieth-century dreamers who create a consensus virtual-reality future.
Banks is a science fiction novel in his Culture series, first published in the UK on 7 October 2010 and the US on 28 October 2010.
"Waves and Radiation" also introduces Murray Jay Siskind, Jack's friend and fellow college professor, who discusses theories about death, supermarkets, media, "psychic data", and other facets of contemporary American culture.
The protagonist is the wife of the creator of Synthajoy, who - realizing what damage it would do to society - murdered her husband, and was committed to a mental hospital.
James Nicoll stated about the characters and the novel: "These are technologically advanced people but they are not terribly bright.
The final novella, Walt and Emily, follows Emily Dickinson and Walt Whitman's blossoming love as they join a spiritualist and scientific expedition into the afterlife.
Reception James Nicoll considered the novel to be an "utterly unnecessary sequel", "unmemorable", and "rather dull", with "[t]oo much irrelevant wheel spinning"; Nicoll also singled out "the entire Maxroy’s Purchase subplot" as superfluous.
Scientific American recently published an article detailing the possible uses for the information gathered from the Human Genome Project.
Someone's put a bounty on Emika's head, and her sole chance for survival lies with Zero and the Blackcoats, his ruthless crew.
During one performance he breaks into the backstage area and turns off the power to Angier's device, mistakenly believing the generator powering it is about to catch fire and light the theatre ablaze.
But it began to corrode and collapse without conflict and contrast between the creators, threatening to take the would-be gods with it.
Themes Language Even with the quick information access provided by the feed, the vocabularies of characters present in the novel are minimal, though full of futuristic slang.
The story is told from multiple perspectives, including that of Kiera, her co-developer Claire, who is a computer science student in Paris, John, a professor of African American studies, and players of SLAY.
Heroes Die is a science fantasy novel by American writer Matthew Stover, the first of a series of novels featuring the protagonist Caine.
Fearing that Erythrina succumbed to temptation for power, Pollack visits her—Debbie Charteris of Providence, Rhode Island—in person.
Ragle Gumm’s perception of reality begins to unravel when ordinary objects, such as a soft-drink stand, dissolve to reveal their artificial nature.
When the rest of G7's staff, including London, awakens, Bardox, now aware Jason is aboard the station, regroups with them and concocts a serum to immobilize Jason.
Not just the front." The font aimed to be as utilitarian as the signage in an actual amusement park.
The second Jason, possessed by Stein's mind after assimilating her body, kills and devours people, while Doctor Omar Wing, a scientist whose bloodstream was contaminated by Jason's cells and nanites, morphs into a third Jason.
“As genetic manipulation accelerates beyond cosmetic enhancements and lifesaving surgeries, animal and plant genes are modified, then used to modify human beings.
Plot After finding out three other teenagers died at the same time and in the same bizarre manner as his niece, Kazuyuki Asakawa, a reporter for Daily News, starts a personal investigation.
Parker lives omnipresently on the Hive servers, as a digital copy of his human consciousness after he was cryogenically frozen pre-mortem in 2015.
Inside Ulam's body, the noocytes multiply and evolve rapidly, altering their own genetic material and quickly becoming self-aware.
Iwoleit (1984) in Science Fiction Times, Juni 1984 Review by Dan Chow (1988) in Locus, #333 October 1988 Review by David Pringle (1989) in Interzone, #28 March–April 1989 References Sources Rossi, Umberto (1994).
Major themes SLAY has been called "an incredibly raw and real depiction of modern black identity struggles", and is referenced as an example of a novel exploring black girlhood.
Gwendolyn Ingolfsson: A genetically engineered Draka and the main antagonist, she is accidentally sent to Earth/2 when supervising construction of a wormhole generator.
Eventually, it is revealed that in this version of the Fermi paradox, sentient life is endemic throughout the universe; Humanity simply had not noticed it earlier because the universe destroys any race before it becomes advanced enough to develop a Type IV civilisation.
When a diseases strikes these “modern” humans, the Protos must venture off the reservation and take up the reins of humanity.
It added that "Stella is well conceived within the bounds of romantic fiction, and Morris Monk's father, the slippery Colonel Monk.
Booklist calls The Games very like something Michael Crichton might have written...An outstanding debut novel; expect big things from Kosmatka.
Reception Joachim Boaz's review in Science Fiction and Other Suspect Ruminations calls it "an enjoyable read" and he praises the "quick prose", action, and dialogue that keeps the reader interested.
Enchantress was a runner up for the 1971 Newbery Medal, the American Library Association award to the previous year's best children's book by a U.S.
Pocalyko's editor at Forge is Robert Gleason, author of the apocalyptic novels Wrath of God and End of Days.
The sole currently existing Alderson Point leads to inside the photosphere of the supergiant red star Murcheson's Eye, which made the blockade much more practical.
Criminals, Refugees, political exiles and the disadvantaged would adopt this lifestyle out of necessity, criminals may prefer its anonymity.
SF Crowsnest wrote that Cowl was initially hard to get into but that the book had a "satisfying climax".
Synopsis Setting The City and the Stars takes place at least two and a half billion years from the present in the city of Diaspar.
Durham and Maria inform the inhabitants of Permutation City, who launch a new TVC Garden of Eden in their universe's final moments.
In the meantime on Earth proper, consensus has been reached to re-open the Way but not to destroy it.
The complete destruction of the ship by the drones will probably convince the government to fund the companies building the drones.
The daily struggles of ruling are made even more difficult by the desperation of the people living in the lands surrounding his own; an ecological disaster has ravaged them almost to the point of no return.
The third plot line concerns Martin Burke, a pioneer in psychotherapy who uses a technique which allows him to directly enter and interact with a patient's psychology, the "Country of the Mind," through a sort of virtual reality.
Declaring her love for Ross, together, they head off with Sebeck to witness him finish his quest and prepare for their future together.
Plot summary Queen of Angels describes our world just prior to the binary millennium (2048 AD) through several parallel (and to some degree interlocking) tales.
Notes References External links Official anime website at TV Asahi (in Japanese) From the New World (novel) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Lambourne, Shallis and Shortland consider Starquake's scientific background as rigorous as Dragon's Egg's.
The organs also confer a kind of healing ability that Galen engineered into himself with earlier versions of his virus; this prevents the virus from killing them as it rewrites their genetic codes.
Locus Solus is used as the name of a yearly music festival at Le Lieu Unique in Nantes, France dedicated to the building of experimental musical instruments.
The people who are infected start to find that genetic faults such as myopia and high blood pressure are fixed.
genetic memory, consciousness, & reality)." The reviewer muses, "I think that some consider this to fall into the horror genre, but I don't know if I agree fully.
The background to the story includes a massive earthquake laying waste to the San Francisco Bay Area in California.
The possibility of a link between homosexuality and creativity has been a matter of debate for many years.
Refusing to explain, she breaks up with him after realizing that their argument is hopeless and that they will not be able to reconcile their basic outlooks on the issue.
After dismantling Mnemonic's equipment, Trisha calls Devon, and together they use a TranceBox to enter the Dream World in an attempt to save a trio of Mnemonic employees being held there by Freddy.
It has an introduction and footnotes by its fictional editor Leibgeber, who also appears in Jean Paul's novels Siebenkäs and Titan.
In addition, haptic feedback is possible by overlaying graphics onto a physical machine such as a robot.
The central unifying element involves a famous writer, Emmanuel Goldsmith, who has committed a gruesome series of murders, a crime almost unheard of in the age of therapy.
He is then saved by an old man named Eliot, who has purposefully crafted all the events to bring Kaoru to him.
The Gripping Hand is set in the year 3046 (twenty-eight years after the events of The Mote in God's Eye) and revolves primarily around two characters of the first book, Captain Sir Kevin Renner (ISN, Reserve) and His Excellency Horace Bury, Imperial Trader Magnate.
Before the novel begins, Scribble and his sister take a shared trip into a vurt called English Voodoo, but upon awakening Scribble finds his sister has disappeared.
In 2025, Polish artists Anka and Wilhelm Sasnal released a new feature-length adaptation of the novel.
Reception The book has been well received by critics, and praised on its perspective on life in the digital age.
Rhita is also returned to Gaia, a Gaia where she never opened a test gate and where the Jarts did not invade.
Together with Juna and other Tendu enkar or elders, particularly Ukatonen, Anito travels to the touchdown site of the human Survey mission, and must work with Juna and other Tendu to repair the environmental damage the human presence has caused.
Facing opposition from powerful Earth authorities and even members of their own family, Geoffrey and Sunday are forced to travel to the edge of the Solar System to discover Eunice's secret.
The swarms exhibit predatory behavior, killing wild animals through the use of code that Jack had worked on.
The main character is a genius scientist, Steve Ryeland, who is trying to build a new type of rocket drive.
Allusions and references to other works Friday is loosely tied to Heinlein's 1949 novella Gulf, since the works share characters—"Kettle Belly" Baldwin is Friday's boss, and Mr.
Years before he was awakened, a clone, or "bud child", was created and is now a thriving young boy without language.
The mole is said to have leaked cryptographic keys to "Team Red", or Chinese interests, through a blacknet.
Plot introduction The novel concerns two corporations competing to develop the power of atomic energy.
It believes that her vision is an attempt to communicate with it and, when her eyePod was rebooted, it sent an image of Caitlin in an attempt to communicate back.
Despite this and over Rorschach's objections the whole crew except the mission commander enters and explores in a series of short forays, using the ship's advanced medical facilities to recover from the damage the radiation inflicts on their bodies.
Simulacron-3 (also published as Counterfeit World) is a 1964 science fiction novel by American author Daniel F.
As the story goes on, Mary finds herself caught between Tom's pharmaceutical dreams and Lara's tech ambitions, while trying to understand what love and connection mean in a world driven by data and self-promotion.
Over the next few years, Yatima and other citizens and gleisners attempt to rescue any surviving fleshers from slow suffocation, starvation, or poisoning by offering to upload them into the polises.
As Laing navigates the new environment, Wilder sets out to reach floor 40—the top of the building—and finally confront the building's architect, Anthony Royal.
Holle assumes control of the ship and executes the head mutineer but keeps Wilson alive because she needs his piloting skills to land on Earth III, a cold tidally locked planet with dense air, a dynamic atmosphere, and a red dwarf sun that fortunately appears a familiar white to the human eye.
Later, Violet realizes that someone has been accessing her personal information through her dreams; this soon becomes a normal occurrence for many feed users.
Janine recruits him to transport her to the home of Xenos's father and then race her to the besieged castle.
Odin infiltrates Henry Clarke's workspace, and intimidates him and his superior, Marta, into giving him information about the location of the pheromone making site, which is in Pakistan.
The universe, Bear says in this large, brave, courteous book, is greater than the tale." Palaeobiology It has been suggested by David Langford that the physical form of the Jart specimen as described in the novel is a tribute to the real-life bizarre fossil species Hallucigenia.
Those invisible beings are immaterial: they are made of energy and Russell compares them to ball lightning.
At the end of the novel, Marty purchases the "Nike speech tattoo", causing him to insert the word "Nike" into all of his sentences.
However, many of the instructions were lost en route, and decades after arrival, the genetically-engineered fauna and flora are still causing problems — both by themselves, and in conflicts with native Mirabilan biota.
It is aimed at a juvenile audience in particular, consequentially becoming part of recommended reading lists in several West German states, mostly directed at teenagers around the eighth grade.
However Nick collapses completely when told that a representative from Tarnover is coming to his promotional interview at G2S.
Dickstein, who is studying under Ashford, is in love with his Lebanese wife Eila, but there are rival suitors.
Bass utilizes extensive biochemical and medical terminology in the narrative, and many scenes are quite clinically graphic.
While working on Pollen, he often listened to ‘Dream of a 100 Nations’ album by Transglobal Underground on repeat.Things changed for my second novel, Pollen: by then I had really discovered the melancholic joys of house and techno music, and I think the novel reflects that change.
He makes a bargain with the king, is released, and becomes the second most powerful person in the kingdom.
After some initial confusion and his capture by one of Arthur's knights, Hank realizes that he is actually in the past, and he uses his knowledge to make people believe that he is a powerful magician.
He believes this is necessary because he has lost the ability to pause the Autoverse simulation or slow it down past a constant multiple of the size of the processor network it occupies.
Aside from the fact that they both came out the same year, both the book and the film tell a story in which the tenants of a humongous, isolated hi-tech residential building wind up descending into an anarchic orgy of sex and violence.
The pair began to write a novel with the premise that "all these nuts are right, and every single conspiracy they complain about really exists".
The Clone Codes is a 2010 science fiction novel by American writers Patricia and Fredrick McKissack.
Javeed loves Zendegi and Martin often takes him to local gaming booths where together they participate in role-playing games.
It can cure that patient of a genetic disorder - but it is quickly lethal to anyone else, inducing a serious rejection reaction as their body responds to its attempt to rewrite the host's DNA.
Malenfant travels in a prototype fusion engine to the Kirkwood Gap and discovers an interstellar teleportation device.
The mole-like Queerats resemble humanity, are able to speak human language, and live in a complex eusocial society ruled by queens.
The Incident, a 2014 Mexican film in which the book notably appears, about people trapped in an infinite loop.
Samantha Craig, the leader of the operation, dismisses Nick after he tries to discover what is going on.
With her last moments, she picks up the church's aerophone and calls Morris to inform him of her impending death, promising him that she did not plan this as an attempt at suicide.
Although this project will not be completed before another predicted pulsar event wipes out all extant species, it is hoped to give the sentient aliens who develop from the aftermath of the coming extinction a better chance at long-term survival.
Being of an odd mental disposition and also being something of a genius, Ryūji usually stated that the purpose of his life is to gaze at the end of humanity.
Jean Paul was fascinated by the subject as a symbol for how fantasy can cross over into reality, the overcoming of limits, having a panoramic outlook, and an ethereal sense of freedom.
Profile Blumlein attended medical school at the University of California, San Francisco and worked as a practicing doctor and member of the faculty at the University of California, San Francisco for decades.
When concerning the virtual world, some references to Greek mythology are noticeable, including Persephone and Demeter, the river Styx and Charon, and Hades (portrayed by the character John Barleycorn).
Colossus is set in the 20th century, Chapter 10 narrows that to the 1990s; however, numerous references in The Fall of Colossus set it in the 22nd century, while it is supposed to take place five years after Colossus.
Other short fiction has appeared in Interzone, The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction and other publications.
The book has been also reviewed by Fehmida Zakeer of The Bangalore Review, Manik Sharma of Firstpost and Mihir Balantrapu of The Hindu.
Gabrielle, Panwar, and Virgil had illegally implanted LOV clusters on their foreheads to communicate with the LOV colonies in their care, and Gabrielle had entered a fugue state and died of exhaustion while connected to their latest experimental subject.
The Last Children of Schewenborn (German: Die letzten Kinder von Schewenborn) is a 1983 novel by Gudrun Pausewang, depicting life in rural Germany in the aftermath of a nuclear war.
The central premise of a televised manhunt was previously explored in dystopian literature, most notably in Robert Sheckley's 1958 science fiction short story, The Prize of Peril, which features a contestant hunted by professionals across an urban landscape for a cash prize.
With the hidden military arsenal in the seedbank, she orchestrates the destruction of the levees around Bangkok, flooding it.
While a large cast of characters helps generate this unwieldy scenario, only their scientific motivations are explored.
The book is a first-person narrative concerning ME's development and its view of the world from its unique perspective.
It is part of the Starchild Trilogy, the other books in the series being Starchild (1965) and Rogue Star (1969).
Ethan tells Jenna that he was previously held in a juvenile detention center for attacking a man, and the two kiss.
In response, Loki attacks a number of funeral attendants—but only members of Korr Security International, the private military contractor which employs The Major.
Once Thiusen and Reva Diotha are matched as a couple, they interpret his situation in terms of reincarnation.
As he studies the Jart, Olmy comes to believe that the Jart allowed itself to be captured and is a Trojan Horse.
See also The Absolute References External links Media related to Továrna na absolutno at Wikimedia Commons The full text of Šárka B.
Publishers Weekly wrote "Whatever 'quantum fiction' is, we need more of it." The American Library Association reviewed it as "auspicious" and "genre-bending." Bonta was invited to The Ricki Lake Show to discuss the novel and extraterrestrial life.
Instead she is confronted with a young man who emerges from swimming underwater, transforming from a fish-like form to human as he does so.
The aliens arrive after the war and they tell us that we have these two characteristics that don't work and play well together.
Suleyman reveals that he himself is working secretly against other factions, some of whom seem to be creating new diseases to wipe out humans.
A symbiotic species, each individual composed of two species, both non-humanoid, is discussed in detail.
Rand survives an attempt on his life before he realizes that Project 79 has gained sentience and is trying to control the minds of humans and take over the world.
Many virtual globe programs, including NASA World Wind and Google Earth, bear a resemblance to the "Earth" software developed by the CIC in Snow Crash.
Hassan also intends to deliver the uranium to the Palestinian Fedayeen, betraying both Rostov and the Egyptians.
Killian states that no contestant has survived long enough to claim the grand prize, nor does he expect anyone ever to do so.
By using the full power of their distortion fields, Voidhawks can attain a speed and manoeuvrability unmatched by Adamist vessels (except those powered by illegal and highly dangerous antimatter).
Mendle Orion transfers the love for the character in his novel, Aira Flight, to the blonde, wide-eyed stranger he takes home.
He also clandestinely commissions a famous virtual reality architect, Malcolm Carter, to build a full scale VR city; outside of Durham's knowledge, Carter secretly hacks two Slum-dwelling Solipsist Nation Copies (Peer and Kate) into this city's machine code.
When Halliday died, his will consisted of a video stating to the public that he had left an Easter egg inside the OASIS, and the first person to find it would inherit his entire fortune, ownership of his corporation, and complete control of the OASIS itself, which is worth trillions.
They must keep their true identities ("True Names") secret even from each other and from the "Great Enemy", the United States government, as those who know a warlock's True Name can force him to work on their behalf, or cause a "True Death" by killing the warlock in real life.
Mistakenly left running, it slowly grew in power and sophistication, and used non-real-time communication to disguise its inability to fully emulate the human mind.
Quan Li, a senior member of the Communist Party, recommends the President order a culling of ten to eleven thousand people in the infected area with an airborne chemical.
It won the 1990 Phoenix Award from the Children's Literature Association as the best English-language children's book that did not win a major award when it was originally published twenty years earlier.
Slonczewski's premise associates the exploitative and patriarchal practices of Valedon as males and ecological wisdom as female.
Plot synopsis Ted Dustin, an American inventor, seeks to win a prize of one million dollars by being the first person to touch the Moon with an object launched from Earth.
It is possible that John Wyndham's The Midwich Cuckoos (1957), adapted as Village of the Damned in 1960, was similarly influenced by Star Begotten.
It was released on October 29, 2013, by Orbit Books and is the first volume of the Parasitology trilogy.
In the novel, the android antagonists are indeed more human than the human protagonist, intentionally.
Shoto, another high ranking gunter, tells Parzival that IOI have killed his friend Daito, passing it off as a suicide.
Despite betrayal by Nadine, Logan confronts and kills Kara, who by then had made significant advancements towards a global delivery mechanism for the upgrade.
Vampires are predators from humanity's distant past, resurrected through recovered DNA, and live among the humans of the late 21st century.
When four teenagers mysteriously die one night at the same time, Kazuyuki Asakawa, a journalist and uncle to one of the teens, takes a particular interest in the case and investigates.
A major problem in this contact is that the Cheela live a million times more quickly than humans do; a Cheela year goes by in about 30 human seconds.
Desperate to avert his fate, he takes the tape and enlists the help of his old high-school friend Ryūji Takayama, now a university Philosophy Professor.
The well-marked eyebrows, when drawn down, shaded the sensitive eyes from the sun." After clashing with and finally eliminating the Third and Fourth Men, they develop a technology greater than Earth had ever known before.
The book therefore received some media coverage, including the author's appearances on Booktalk Nation and The Authors Studio.
Curtis, Claire P (January 2015), "Utopian Possibilities: Disability, Norms, and Eugenics in Octavia Butler's Xenogenesis", Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies, 9 (1): 19–33, doi:10.3828/jlcds.2015.2.
Powers's later novel Galatea 2.2, published in 1995, uses the first person perspective of semifictional narrator Richard Powers to describe to a large extent the conditions under which Powers wrote Three Farmers on Their Way to a Dance.
The real beauty of this novel is the characters, who are fleshed out more fully here than on screen, and the magical elements of the story achieve a fantastical, creepy edge.
An organization called SIMUVAC (short for "simulated evacuation") is also introduced in part two, an indication of simulations replacing reality.
Local author Daniel Dw may have just published the novel you're looking for." "Rep Radio" called Propolis, "Beautifully written and incredibly unique with its incorporation of multi-media.
Friday is their house-guest in British Canada (a country in the Balkanized North America) when a worldwide emergency known as Red Thursday occurs.
Lady Muriel walks the narrator part of the way home, and they meet Sylvie and Bruno, who are singing A Song of Love.
She conducts him to one of the "paid avoidance areas" in California, where people are paid to do without the full panoply of modern technology, as an alternative to spending billions to rebuild infrastructure after the earthquake.
Billy has "virtualized" himself in a virtual world known as "NOD" in order to communicate secretly with Blake.
MacRobert, who has previously refused offers from either corporation, is placed in charge of Independent.
They fear other intelligences found in the Void Which Binds, another dimension through which the farcaster portals pass.
Genes are spliced into yeast to create airborne mad cow disease, and dispersed by ordinary fireworks from the back of a truck.
garishly painted covers of robots and rocket ships, mad scientists and nifty technology." As a youngster, Mastai often wondered why the future dreamt up by those artists and writers was not happening.
Obourn, Megan (Spring 2013), "Octavia Butler's Disabled Futures", Contemporary Literature, 54 (1): 109–138, doi:10.1353/cli.2013.0001.
Summary The Flock, led by Maximum "Max" Ride, are a group of kids genetically altered to have wings.
Nafai, Elemak and Mebbekew, his older half brothers, Issib and his father Volemak are eventually forced to leave the city.
Enge - A Yilanè who is what her people call a "Daughter of Life", a member of a group who have a high regard for life, including humans.
Amerika's literary remix is conceived as a work of performance art, one where the artist uses an array of online translation programs to experiment with procedural methods reminiscent of Roussel's own writing style.
James Nicoll praised it as "truly glorious", but noted that "the efforts to transform the original short pieces into a novel are perfunctory".
The ondat came into contact with the Movement's aggressively adaptive nanisms and unwittingly spread it to their homeworld.
She hopes to convince him that his rebellion is futile and will eventually be crushed by superior ogre technology.
Parzival survives, discovering the quarter he first obtained in Archaide was an artifact that granted him an extra life.
In the 1997 film Face/Off, FBI Agent Sean Archer enters Erewhon Prison, a high-tech prison with severe punishment for any transgressions.
In Nigel Kneale's 1958-59 BBC television serial Quatermass and the Pit and its 1967 movie adaptation, a discovery of strange fossils reveals that human evolution was altered by a dying race of Martians, in order to leave a legacy behind.
Although it is in no sense a sequel to the first book it contains a number of the same characters, notably protagonist Reid Malenfant, and similar artefacts.
Nelson's and Conor Lastowka's book review podcast series 372 Pages We'll Never Get Back was named after the number of pages that comprise the book's paperback edition.
A tie-in to the Friday the 13th series of American horror films, it is the fourth in a series of five Jason X novels published by Black Flame and is set in Moon Camp Americana, a reformatory for wayward girls that is attacked by undead cyborg Jason Voorhees.
Fletcher discovers through a tracer that North Dakota and Ensei Tankado are the same person, as "NDAKOTA" is an anagram of "Tankado." Strathmore kills Hale and arranges it to appear as a suicide.
Despite this realization, Tikkirey attempts to kill Ada with a whip, but he only wounds her and gets captured by Iney forces.
Security footage reveals that Marcus Eaton, who was banished by Evelyn, is working with Johanna to steal weapons from the Factionless, which Evelyn will counter by releasing the death serum.
When Juna is rescued at last by a returning Survey mission, re-entry into human society proves as difficult for her as adapting to Tendu ways.
Daito: One of the two Japanese gunters who rise to the top of the scoreboard early on in the hunt, working in a team with his "brother" Shoto.
Dravere and Heldane's agents discovered evidence of the factory and realized they could build an army loyal to themselves that was powerful enough for any purpose.
Victor had injected two other eggs with NGF, which were given to two families who work at Chimera through their fertility clinic.
Anderson offers to supply a new strain of GM rice and a private army from AgriGen to repel the White Shirts in exchange for access to the seedbank and lowering of the trade barriers.
While en route to Menazoid Epsilon, Gaunt's subordinate, Major Rawne, is abducted by Patrician soldiers and brutally interrogated by Inquisitor Heldane, who is assisting General Dravere's plans.
Nevertheless, the novel was largely regarded as a fitting conclusion to the trilogy, offering closure to ongoing questions about the distinction between human and replicant, the nature of empathy, and the consequences of technological advancement.
Johanna Thomas-Corr from The Times described it as "a 19th-century novel of manners for the age of dating apps and psychedelic therapy." Author Mariel Franklin is the author of Bonding.
Plot The novel is set in a dystopian future where mankind is ruled by a brutal totalitarian government known as the Plan of Man, enforced by a computerized surveillance state.
Forge of Heaven is the second of two novels set in Cherryh's Gene Wars universe, and concerns gene manipulation using nanotechnology, and contact with an alien race, the ondat.
Hiro meets his ex-girlfriend Juanita Marquez, who gives him a database containing a large amount of research compiled by her associate, Lagos.
By the time the novel begins, the humanoids have reached a late Stone Age level of technology and culture, with a number of societies having developed farming skills.
Their activity is potentially an immense threat, as Malenfant notes in an earlier speech: "A target system, we assume, is uninhabited.
But to stay alive as an armed citizen a man has to be either quick with his wits or with his hands, preferably both.
See also History of ballooning References External links Projekt Gutenberg-DE Des Luftschiffers Giannozzo Seebuch in Komischer Anhang zum Titan (vol.
Publication history 2000, UK, Voyager ISBN 0-00-225771-8, Pub date 6 October 2000, hardback 2001, USA, Del Rey Books ISBN 0-345-43077-8, Pub date ?
In this novel, a technically proficient American is shipwrecked on an island that broke off from Britain during Arthurian times and never developed any further.
This clue would form the first part of a series of staged video gaming tests, similar to the plot of the novel.
Plot summary The story revolves around a supercomputer being built in a secret government lab working on a project called Trinity.
Set in the near future, the novel tells the story of a top-secret cybernetic technician, Steve Rand, one of the brains behind Project 79, a top-secret US government project dedicated to creating artificial intelligence.
The dust theory implies that all possible universes exist and are equally real, emerging spontaneously from their own mathematical self-consistency.
They succeed in destroying the many copies of the Mailman's AI, and although tempted to keep their power over the world realize that they do not wish to be tyrants.
However, Booklist also praised Patterson for stepping out of his normally adult-genre books as it said, "He's picked a comfortable formula (orphans protecting one another and making a home together)".
This science-fiction novella was printed anonymously in New Zealand, and is extremely rare; it now exists only in a single copy in a library in Wellington.
These changes, ostensibly to appease Malaysian government demands and cut costs, resulted in the defects.
Poignantly, Roland implies that the children probably will not survive to adulthood, given the widespread presence of genetic damage and consequent impaired health amongst them.
Reception A reviewer for Publishers Weekly called the novel a "thought-provoking near-future thriller." Reviews Review by Gary K.
Reiko is questioning the worth of giving birth to a child if the only world he'll arrive in is full of death.
Syrinx travels to the Tyrathca home system to investigate their knowledge of the possession phenomena, and undertakes various other missions for the Confederation.
Allegiant was published simultaneously by Katherine Tegen Books and HarperCollins Children's Books in the UK.
This is in part due to the fact that the story is told, for the most part through the eyes of Swiss-born naturalist Louis Agassiz, who is apart from pompous and self-aggrandizing, also a proud unrepentant racist.
Jack learns Julia was helping to make the swarms more benign, but they regressed when she stopped coming to the facility.
They take a bizarre turn when he sees himself as an NSA assassin sent to kill him, and also as his dead friend, Andrew Fielding, in his last moments.
It is about a girl, Leanna, who lives in 22nd century America where human clones and cyborgs are treated like second-class citizens, and what happens when she discovers that her parents are activists and that she is a clone.
Kade takes a call from Ilya that reminds him that technology in the hands of only the elite is dangerous.
One year later, a mother brings in her teenage daughter and her daughter's child to Marsha's office.
The character Dan in this book says: "Lil, you are one rangy cowgirl." Doctorow's short story "Truncat" is also set in the Bitchun Society, sometime after the events of Down and Out.
When it learns what has happened, it takes control of several drones and severs the lab module from the space station.
However, she has a way to stop Lifelight....a Reality Bug that preys on fears to make it all less-than-perfect.
Rong comes under the wing of a visiting Polish professor named Liseiwicz, who recognizes Rong's brilliance and urges him to study artificial intelligence.
She is investigating a possible case of someone stealing from the company, starting with strange happenings at a silicon chip manufacturing plant.
Ross can contest the will as the product of Chandler's undue influence, as Ross will inherit Monica's property if Chandler's behavior disqualifies Chandler from inheriting (however, many jurisdictions do not consider a threat of divorce to be undue influence).
The plaintiff must still prove all of the same facts that would be the plaintiff's burden, had the action been brought against the insured.
The judge for the case noted that neither side could definitively prove who owned the rights, as Jackson was deceased and Muhammad was 'elusive'.
For the construction of references to Statutes of Distribution, see section 50 of the Administration of Estates Act 1925 and section 19 of the Administration of Estates Act (Northern Ireland) 1955.
Generally, a reporting on the ORSA will contain two parts: A qualitative report: Description of the risk profile and risk management processes in place; A quantitative report: Description of the quantitative methodologies used in the context of the ORSA, results, defined strategy, and conclusions.
Promoters of companies sometimes aggregate their shares in a voting trust to safeguard control of the company.
For example: In fire insurance, an adjustment clause provides that in the event of loss or damage at any location mentioned in the policy, the amount of insurance in force at that location shall be prorated to the burned and unburned portions of the property.
A remedial constructive trust is a type of constructive trust recognised in Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, Canada and the United States, which allows courts to give a discretionary property remedy for breaches of certain obligations, or to acknowledge various rights.
In the BBC drama Life on Mars, in the seventh episode of the first series, an inquest is carried out into the death of a prisoner in the police station.
Ademption, or ademption by extinction, is a common law doctrine used in the law of wills to determine what happens when property bequeathed under a will is no longer in the testator's estate at the time of the testator's death.
According to the United States Department of Agriculture, since 1910, the heir property system has been responsible for African American landowners losing 80% of the farming land owned by previous generations.
In 1979, California's highest court refuted that argument and further expanded the scope of the tort by holding that inadequate investigation of a claim was actionable in tort as a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
Some jurisdictions apply different combinations of the rules in income tax, capital gains tax and inheritance tax.
Motor injury claims and whiplash reforms Motor insurance claims costs in the United Kingdom have been influenced by reforms to low value road traffic personal injury claims, particularly those involving whiplash.
By aggregating their shares, the shareholders can confer this power on themselves collectively where they might not have it individually.
If the likelihood of an insured event is so high, or the cost of the event so large, that the resulting premium is large relative to the amount of protection offered, it is not likely that anyone will buy insurance, even if on offer.
When an individual flees the scene of an accident without leaving sufficient information to identify him or herself, the individual is considered uninsured for the purposes of an uninsured motorist provision.
It was signed into law on September 26, 1996, and requires plans that offer maternity coverage to pay for at least a 48-hour hospital stay following childbirth (96-hour stay in the case of a cesarean section).
Alternatively, the full sum assured may be paid on diagnosis of the critical illness, but then no further payment is made on death, effectively making the critical illness payment an 'accelerated death payment'.
Realtors are independent contractors and are representative of the plight of many independent contractors and small business employees in Connecticut in that they do not have access to group health insurance.
He also assumed that they had stop loss insurance for a total of £100,000 subject to an excess of £25,000 (so the name would have to pay out £25,000 of their own money before the stop loss insurance kicked in).
Administrative law in the United States In American administrative law, incorporation by reference is a drafting tool that enables federal agencies to give legal effect to materials that are already published elsewhere.
Such a jury was made up of up to twenty-three men, and required the votes of twelve to render a decision.
Other charities are excepted from the need to register but are still subject to the supervision of the Charity Commission.
In insurance, an agent of record (AOR) is an individual or legal entity, an agent, that represents an insurance policy holder and typically receives commissions on the premiums.
In Australia, each of the states has followed the English approach to perpetuities, with statutory modification.
A specific legacy (or specific bequest) is a testamentary gift of a precisely identifiable object, distinguished from all other things of the same kind — such as, a gift of a particular piece of jewelry.
At common law, if the residuary estate was divided between two or more beneficiaries, and one of those beneficiaries was unable to take, the share that would have gone to that beneficiary would instead pass by intestacy, under the doctrine that there was no residuary of a residuary.
Generally, TPD provided by super funds will require that you have been off work for a period of at least 6 months before they will consider a claim.
In any case, even among the adopting jurisdictions, there are variations from state to state, some of which are significant.
In contrast, because independent counsel is separate from the insurer, their billing rates will be somewhat higher since they merely must bill the "reasonable" rate for their defense services.
Among all social classes, childless couples or those who wanted to expand the size of their families instead might foster children.
Proponents of no-fault insurance Proponents of no-fault insurance argue that automobile collisions are inevitable and that at-fault drivers are not necessarily higher risk and should not necessarily be punished.
Trusts & Estates is a wealth management journal published by Informa which covers trust law and estates.
"Shady Helpers" is a form of ambulance chasing that usually happens after a genuine crash has occurred.
Upon the coming into force of that Act, Canadian Western Bank, together with other chartered banks, brought an application for a declaration: that their promotion of certain insurance products authorized by the Bank Act was banking within the meaning of s.
However, each annuity payment when received will be partially taxable on the share of capital gains, depreciation recapture and ordinary income included in the payment.
In an attempt to mitigate the perceived harshness of the common law rule, and to maximise the possible length of time for which trusts in particular could subsist, lawyers began to draft so-called royal lives clauses.
The rigid structure can be a source of frustration and conflict among beneficiaries who may feel constrained by outdated provisions or disagree with the trustee's interpretation or management, potentially leading to disputes and litigation.
There is a small market for reversions in real estate, which necessitates a buyer to carry out enhanced documentary due diligence and physical checks.
Beneficiary designations are considered distributions under contract law and cannot be changed by statements or provisions outside the contract, such as a clause in a will.
Trustee investment policies will also allow emphasis on either present income (which may reduce the real value of the capital) or capital growth (increasing income in the long term and capital remaining when the interest in possession is terminated) or a balance.
This Act should render insurance benefits payable to domestic partners more easily, without reference to inconsistent and confusing statutory and case law definitions of what constitutes a "dependent" under California law.
In a Fixed trust, the distribution of income to the beneficiaries is fixed and can not be changed by the trustee.
Bare trusts are often used to pass assets to young people - the trustees look after them until the beneficiary is old enough.
Cumis Insurance Society, Inc., which the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District decided on December 3, 1984.
Orr failed to qualify three times over the next six races, with his best finish in the three races which he qualified for being 34th, at Richmond International Raceway in the third race of the season, and Bristol International Raceway in the seventh.
The insurer will often wish to settle claims as quickly and cheaply as possible, but the insured may be concerned that paying on a claim implies negligence which will damage their professional reputation, and want to contest the claim regardless.
Individuals may give away as much as $17,000 per year (in 2023) to another person without incurring gift tax or using up any of their lifetime exemption amount.
2004), (UnumProvident, now referred to as Unum or Unum Group), is a landmark decision by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals on the issue of disability bad faith insurance law.
In the pre-classical period, a testator was required to nominate an heir in order for his will to be valid (heredis institutio).
It took Werner Eck's work to refute the identification decisively and show the testator did not belong to that gens.
A perpetual chantry consisted of one or more priests, in a private free-standing chapel, usually licensed by the local bishop (such as the surviving one at Noseley, Leicestershire) or in an aisle of a greater church.
See also Investment fund References External links A comprehensive overview of pooled income funds by the Planned Giving Design Center Pooled income funds FAQ
Because Joey bought a new car to get a more comfortable ride, rather than to change a will without going through the testamentary formalities, the gift to Rachel remains enforceable.
In the context of an insurance policy, the condition is generally the death of the insurance contract holder; the party who benefits is referred to as the primary beneficiary.
The executor's duties also include distributing property to the beneficiaries as designated in the will, obtaining information of potential heirs, collecting and arranging for payment of debts of the estate and approving or disapproving creditors' claims.
Australia In Australia, the justification for the imposition of a remedial constructive trust has been based on the notion of an "unconscionable denial of beneficial interest", usually in property.
History After the Norman conquest of England, the Church succeeded in allowing a person to leave part of his property to the church to fund its activities.
Trust law enters civilian jurisdictions through conflict of law arrangements recognizing it as a matter of private international law and has been implemented in the civil code of certain countries such as Liechtenstein and Curaçao.
In response to such arguments judges will often adopt mandatory disclosure obligations for bankruptcy trust claims.
History Historically, issues surrounding powers of attorney were based on the common law concept of agency.
Only the Nippon Cultural Broadcasting recording is available for the opening part of the speech, but the Fuji Television recording gives a clearer sound to the latter half of the speech.
The majority of insurance companies will not disclose information or discuss an insured party's account with an agent other than the agent of record.
With the accession of the United Kingdom to the European Community, the trust entered Community Law; the law of the member state where the trust is constituted (the situs) is designated as the applicable law (the law that must be followed) in member states.
The Insurance Act, 1938 is a law originally passed in 1938 in British India to regulate the insurance sector.
Although not a party to the trust itself, the probate court is a necessary component of the trust's activity.
Before such fiduciary obligations can be imported there must be specific circumstances in the relationship that call for their imposition.
For example, the building may be insured at replacement cost value, most of the contents insured at actual cash value and a few specific items at a fixed value (antiques).
Provisions Revived and continued enactments Section 1 of the act continued the Death between Verdict and Judgment Act 1665 (17 Cha.
See also After-acquired property Contract law Prenuptial agreement Insurance law Mortgage law == References ==
In one of the most famous decisions of his career (involving Jerry Buss's bad faith lawsuit against Transamerica), Justice Stanley Mosk wrote: [W]e can, and do, justify the insurer's duty to defend the entire 'mixed' action prophylactically, as an obligation imposed by law in support of the policy.
Cultural references More than a century after the novel's publication, Jarndyce and Jarndyce continues to be used as an example of the futility and length of civil court cases.
The Uniform Probate Code (commonly abbreviated UPC) is a uniform act drafted by National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws (NCCUSL) governing inheritance and the decedents' estates in the United States.
If a contingent beneficiary is not named, the default provision in the contract or custodian agreement applies.
Generally, rules require these elements or factors: "they cannot exist beyond the period of the rule against perpetuities, and their amounts cannot be unreasonably large for the purpose to be accomplished ..
Broadly speaking, without an immediate family or a relationship that is recognized by law there is no insurable interest.
The bill was created with the intent of preserving historical information regarding slave owners and their slaves in order to provide genealogical research information for slave descendants as well as to preserve possible evidence for potential reparation claims.
While the "Solvency I" Directive was aimed at revising and updating the current EU Solvency regime, Solvency II has a much wider scope.
A conditional bequest is a bequest that will be granted only if a particular event has occurred by the time of its operation.
For a settlor to validly create a trust, in most common law legal systems they must satisfy the three certainties, established in Knight v Knight: certainty of intention – whether the settlor (or testator) has manifested an intention to create a trust.
Livia, the wife of Augustus, outlived him, and only upon his death did testamentary adoption make her a part of the Julian family.
Among the benefits were a lump-sum distribution from the Bell System Savings Plan for Salaried employees (in the amount of $151,628.94); the amount was rolled over in to an Individual Retirement Account which was untouched during Isaac's lifetime, and at Issac's death was worth $180,778.05.
The fixed annuity percentage must be at least 5% and no more than 50% of the fair market value of the assets in the corpus.
Estate planning or inheritance planning is the process of anticipating and arranging for the management of a person's estate or net worth during the person's life in preparation for future incapacity or death.
Another point of controversy was whether or not the second testator had to benefit from the initial disposition.
Overview Collective trusts are commonly used for defined benefit plans and, when daily valuation is possible, for defined contribution plans.
Such an approach undermines the Convention’s purpose to establish a virtually unbreakable limit on liability and does not accord with its text.
Philo of Alexandria and Josephus also comment on the Jewish laws of inheritance, praising them above other law codes of their time.
Even though this position was established long before 1634, no official records can be found prior to this date.
An infamous example is Re Diplock [1951] Ch 253, which resulted in the suicide of one of the trustees who was personally liable to account for trust funds that had been disbursed for what he thought were perfectly valid charitable trusts.
At last, in BCCI (Overseas) Ltd v Akindele it was held that the degree of knowledge for knowing receipt is knowledge that makes it unconscionable for recipient to retain benefit of receipt.
Texas) probate courts also handle other matters, such as guardianships, trusts, and mental health issues (including the authority to order involuntary commitment to psychiatric facilities and involuntary administering psychiatric medication).
102(a)'s exclusion of "bequests" from gross income included those made in consideration for services and whether the "detached and disinterested" standard applied to gifts made at death-time.
The disclaimer must also occur before the disclaiming party has enjoyed any benefits of the trust or inheritance.
In those early days, insurance was intrinsically coupled with the expansion of mercantilism, and the exploration (and exploitation) of new sources of gold, silver, spices, furs, and other precious goods - including slaves - from the New World.
It takes between twenty and fifty years from first exposure to the development of asbestos-caused cancer, so work histories, employment, military and social security records are used to help prove the plaintiff's exposure to various asbestos products throughout his or her career.
It was believed that people would be less likely to drive while impaired or intoxicated if insurance companies could deny medical payments or other claims associated with any injuries associated with the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Under the law, only the interest and other income would be spent, while the principal would accumulate.
The inability to sell the residence is a major restriction on the flexibility of a PRT and usually makes QPRTs more desirable.
To avoid confusion as to what may or may not be adeemed, sometimes the phrase "if owned by me at my death" is placed into the articles of a will in which property is being bequeathed.
Muschinski v Dodds (1985) 160 CLR 583 Baumgartner v Baumgartner (1987) 164 CLR 137 Canada Lac Minerals Ltd.
Second, it prevents the surviving spouse from taking too large an elective share, if the decedent had already transferred substantial assets to the spouse.
The tax reliefs also promote awareness of the sector and increased the attractiveness of indirect employee ownership structures for businesses which might be considering converting.
The business is to be held and managed for the benefit of persons who hold transferable certificates issued by the trustees showing the shares into which the beneficial interest in the property is divided.
The Restatement 3d of Trusts (Section 26) and the Restatement 3d of Property (Section 7.1 comment i) also recognize its validity.
The will may identify the taker of the residuary estate through a residuary clause or residuary bequest.
He assumed in each case that each of the names had suffered a net underwriting loss for the year of £160,000.
Now as a viable 1031 exchange replacement property option through a DST, individual investors have the ability to invest in a diversified selection of institutional quality, investment property types that they otherwise could not purchase individually.
In that case, the company is required to investigate the damage, determine whether the damage is covered, and pay the proper value for the damaged property.
In the event of the settlor dying within seven years, this retained "bag of rights" should in theory be returned to their personal representatives.
In Islamic law, as practiced for example in Saudi Arabia, forced heirship is the rule and testaments are fairly rare.
See also Beneficiary (trust) Beneficial ownership Birth certificate Estate planning Inheritance Legal fiction Registered owner == References ==
When there is no duke (the lifetime ('inter vivos') owner), the interest in possession reverts to the pre-1337 owner, the Crown.
See also List of individual cats List of individual dogs List of individual apes List of wealthiest families Rachel Hirschfeld References External links "Providing For Your Pets In The Event of Your Death or Hospitalization".
It is any "person who makes a will." Related terms A female testator is sometimes referred to as a testatrix (), plural testatrices (), particularly in older cases.
An offshore trust is a conventional trust that is formed under the laws of an offshore jurisdiction.
If there is no such chance of loss, the transaction may have the form of insurance, but not the substance.
Definitions A specific devise, is a specific gift in a will to a specific person other than an amount of money.
In 1969, the ULC promulgated the Uniform Probate Code, which created a basis for a national framework for powers of attorney.
The exception is recognized to benefit minors, incompetents, and trust beneficiaries that may otherwise behave as a spendthrift would.
Be impartial among beneficiaries: the trustee must act impartially between individual beneficiaries as well as between different classes of beneficiaries.
The words which are properly and commonly used to install a fideicommissum are 'I beg', 'I ask', 'I wish', 'I entrust'; these [words] are therefore sufficient individually, but also if all combined.
Reasoning First, the court found Merriam inapplicable because there was a dispute as to whether the parties had, in fact, contracted for services, whereas it was undisputed that Wolder and Boyce had contracted and performed.
The purpose of a SPA Trust is to protect assets from a person's potential future liabilities by removing the assets from the person's legal ownership.
The UTC attempts to standardize the general composition of both trust forms and their requirements, but does not generally attempt to address the procedural questions as to overall subject-matter jurisdiction and other aspects of proceedings involving trusts.
The doctrine first arose in the English courts of equity, originating in the law of charitable trusts, but it has since been applied in the context of class action settlements in the United States.
10) until the next session of parliament 7 years after the start of the present session of parliament.
Relationship poisoning is a process by which a person instills thoughts and beliefs in their victim causing them to distrust third-parties.
Acquisition of a business When one business purchases another business, the purchasing business may want to set aside part of the purchase price and defer its payment to the payee upon the satisfaction of conditions to which both parties agree.
A hospitalized Health insurance Scheme of maximum of 25,000 LKR and a Housing Loan Scheme of maximum of 50,000 LKR can be obtained during the membership period.
Class actions In 1986, the California Supreme Court endorsed cy-près mechanisms in class action settlements, and other American courts followed.
The appeal, of course, must possess merit; the party may cite improper judgement by the Court or claim another individual possessed mandatory entitlement to appointment.
Delayed filings and failure to disclose Plaintiffs attorneys routinely delay filing claims against asbestos bankruptcy trusts in order to facilitate lawsuits against solvent defendants.
May be of use where property is to be held and invested on behalf of a minor child or mentally incapacitated person.
If all of the beneficiaries of the trust are adults and of sound mind, then they can terminate the trust under the rule in Saunders v Vautier, and require the trustees to transfer absolute legal title to the trust assets to the beneficiaries.
The plaintiff-respondent won against the defendant, successfully proving that the refusal to settle his property damage claim after a significant fire was vexatious.
Australia In Australia, probate can refer to the process of proving the will of a deceased person and also to a grant of probate, the legal document that is obtained.
Sometimes the charity is named as trustee, other times it is a third party such as an attorney, a bank or a financial advisor.
For example, suppose Joey agrees to execute a will bequeathing his house to Rachel in exchange for services provided by Rachel.
14), also known as the Abolition of Chantries Act 1547 or the Chantries Act 1547, was an act of the Parliament of England.
Categorization There are various ways in which beneficiaries of trusts can be categorised, depending upon the nature and need of the categorisation.
Ukraine Under article 1247 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, wills are required to be in writing, with a signature and the indication of place and date of its execution.
The final text of the Uniform Trust Code (UTC) was approved by the ULC commissioners in August 2000.
The plaintiff driver returned to Ontario to collect a provincial no-fault benefit from Unifund Assurance.
Exegesis This fragment dates to the reign of Caesar Augustus, who first decreed certain requirements for the institution of the fideicommissum.
The CRUT may not let any of its assets be used for the benefit of anyone other than the annuity recipient, the qualified charitable beneficiary, or a charitable organization as described in section 170(c).
If the intended beneficiary predeceases the settlor, then the gift will lapse, and will generally not be saved by an anti-lapse statute.
A direct-action lawsuit is brought directly against an insurance company for a wrong done by the insured.
Not only are they invariably always executed under seal as a deed, but frequently the initial trust fund (usually a nominal amount), will actually be physically affixed to the trust instrument itself to prove that the initial trust property was transferred.
This is why online networks and digital executors require proof of death such as a certificate from a family member of the deceased person in order to acquire access to accounts.
See also Merger doctrine (civil procedure) Merger doctrine (family law) Merger doctrine (property law) == References ==
Protective trusts are subject to challenge under creditor protection legislation as are any other forms of asset-protection.
Prior to the 2012 amendment, only killers found guilty of murder in the first or second degree would be disinherited under Arizona's slayer rule.
The extent to which other states will recognize the asset protections of these DAPTs, like those created under the laws of Nevada and Alaska, is unclear due to a somewhat sparse body of relevant case law.
In American estate planning parlance, an incentive trust is a trust designed to encourage or discourage certain behaviors by using distributions of trust income or principal as an incentive.
While such a trust would normally be void for lack of a beneficiary, many jurisdictions have carved out two specific exceptions to this rule: trusts for the care of that person's pets; and trusts to provide for the maintenance of cemetery plots.
This arrangement differs from a bank trustee or a corporate trustee, both of which mainly focus on legalities and accounting in the public arena.
Trusts & Trustees is a peer-reviewed law journal published ten times per year by Oxford University Press.
While such a clause will not necessarily prevent a claim against an estate by a pretermitted heir, it may make it more difficult to succeed in such an action.
It is usually seen as one of two liabilities established in Barnes v Addy, the other one being knowing receipt.
The company can use what is done on the pillar 1 such as a measure of risk, a time horizon and/or a different security level most suitable to its strategy for controlling the risks.
It came into effect on 12 August 2016, and follows on from the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 ("CIDRA").
Thirty-six states currently allow alcohol exclusions in health care insurance policies via either explicit exclusions or implicit exclusions determined by legal precedence.
The final version of the original UPC was promulgated in 1969 as a joint project between NCCUSL and the Real Property, Probate and Trust Law Section of the American Bar Association.
As it became usual to delegate the petitions to the Lord Chancellor it became common for petitioners to simply address the Lord Chancellor directly and not the King giving rise to the Court of Chancery.
In 2018, the US Supreme Court decided to hear an appeal of the Ninth Circuit decision in In re Google Referrer Header Privacy Litigation, 10-cv-04809, U.S.
No-contest clause in wills Unless there is probable cause, no-contest clauses are permitted by the Uniform Probate Code.
In the 2024 Autumn Budget, the UK government introduced changes impacting Employee Ownership Trusts (EOTs).
Geki is a 10-paragraph piece of text, converting it into about nine pages long in manuscript paper, densely written in Mishima's own handwriting across two sheets of B4 paper.
If no such clause is present, however, the residuary estate will pass to the testator's heirs by intestacy.
Application The Act applies to all new insurance contracts entered into or renewed from 12 August 2016, and also to amendments to insurance made from that date.
CLS Bank International decision by the Supreme Court of the United States, holding that an abstract idea does not become patentable just because it is implemented on a computer.
The journal covers trust law and practice, including case notes on topical cases and updates on trends and developments from around the world.
Australian insurance law is based on commercial contract law, but is subject to regulations that affect the insurance industry and insurance contracts within Australia.
The Insurance Contracts Act 1984 (ICA) applies to most insurance contracts with an Australian connection and is intended to ensure that a fair balance is struck between the interests of the insurer and the insured.
Despite being recorded as the representative name for the syndicate in the litigation, Lord Napier was not actually insured by the stop loss insurers, and so was not affected by the judgment.
There is no recovery from the employee and the liability of this contribution lies solely with the employer.
This can result in substantially greater wealth being available for later generations compared to scenarios where assets are taxed at each generational transfer.
The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission (ACCC) also has a regulatory role with respect to competition law.
In addition, transactions involving interests in collective trusts generally do not require an entity to register as a broker-dealer under Section 15(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
At the end of the trust period, the shares would ordinarily be re-transferred to the beneficiary, although in practice many voting trusts contain provisions for them to re-vested on the voting trusts with identical terms.
intestate) and has no blood relative who can be easily traced, the estate is claimed by the King's and Lord Treasurer's Remembrancer on behalf of the Crown.
By the time of the Codex Justinianus, the formal requirements for wills had relaxed, while requirements for codicils had become more stringent.
The Registrar and staff administer the local Probate Court, typically for a given county, acting partly as public customer service and partly as clerks for the probate judge (who may or may not be elected).
The encoded documents are the transaction sets, sorted in functional groups, used in defining transactions for business data interchange.
Both countries are also known for offering asset protection annuities, with a six-month statute of limitations on fraudulent transfers into an annuity.
Politics became devoted to covering up contradictions, self-preservation, lust for power, and hypocrisy, the nation's long-term plans were left to foreign country, the shame of defeat was not wiped away but merely whitewashed, and the Japanese themselves desecrated Japan's history and traditions.
It was designed to "reduce losses to properties for which repetitive flood insurance claim payments have been made." The Act's main sponsors were Sen.
In some voting trusts, the trustee may also be granted additional powers (such as to sell or redeem the shares).
Statutes that authorize self-proved wills typically provide that a will that contains this language will be admitted to probate without affidavits from the attesting witnesses.
patent 6,567,790, and is entitled "Establishing and managing grantor retained annuity trusts funded by nonqualified stock options".
Stalley, a Michigan lawyer relied on the official text of the Uniform Probate Code and failed to check the statute as it had been adopted in Florida.
As of 2025, the Sonnenberg decision has been cited more than sixty times in Canadian court judgments and legal commentaries.
The power is divided into two broad categories: general powers of appointment and special powers of appointment.
In September 2012, according to the Institute for Policy Studies, "over 60 percent" of the Forbes richest 400 Americans "grew up in substantial privilege", and often (but not always) received substantial inheritances.
A lender who advances funds for the purpose of discharging a security may be entitled to be subrogated to the third party's security as against the borrower.
2007) was a Missouri court case which set out the legal test to demonstrate bad faith by an insurer.
To ensure comprehensive input, they consulted with advisors and legal groups like the Joint Editorial Board for Uniform Trusts and Estates Acts and ACTEC's Committee on State Laws.
This may be because the child was incorrectly believed to be dead, or was adopted by the testator after the will was drafted.
A transfer will be considered valid in equity only when the settlor has done all the things that must be done to transfer their interest in the property.
Following his aborted Busch Series career, Orr returned to local short track competition, racing as far afield as DeSoto Speedway in Florida and Jennerstown Speedway in Pennsylvania in 2000.
Richard Carstone, a former ward of court, dies trying to win the inheritance for himself after spending much of his life so distracted by the notion of it that he cannot commit to any other pursuit.
A case that deals with the limited powers of a bare trustee to deal with trust assets is Caterpillar Financial Australia Ltd v Ovens Nominees Pty Ltd, which considered the law relating to the duties, powers and rights of a bare trustee in a winding up.
In Stoeckler the defendants discovered that the plaintiff did not disclose trust claims only three days after the start of the trial.
Critics of no-fault insurance Critics of no-fault insurance argue that dangerous drivers not paying for the damage they cause encourages risky behavior, with only raised premiums and a higher risk rating as the potential consequence, and no jury awards or legal settlements.
Before the South-Eastern Underwriters Association case, "insurance already was one of the most highly regulated industries in the American economy," with every state having an insurance department and detailed laws on the protection of policyholders in case of insolvency.
Also, in the case of legacies when the funds or assets out of which they are payable are not sufficient to pay them in full, the legacies abate in proportion, unless there is a priority given specially to any particular legacy.
In those states, if the decedent had been married, and their spouse had died before the decedent, and if the decedent had no blood relatives at all, then the decedent's property would pass to any living relatives of the spouse, no matter how remote.
A SPA Trust is created by a legal document which is prepared by an attorney who has expertise with debtor—creditor law, income tax law, gift and estate tax law, and trust law.
Applied to pensions The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code provide that most retirement plans contain anti-alienation provisions related to the benefits held by these trusts.
Payments by injury type The relatively high compensation received by claimants with non-malignant injuries has been an ongoing problem.
103 were run at no cost by TV stations only due to the fairness doctrine in place at the time, with some equal-time ads.
Executor pay In some countries, such as the United States, an executor is automatically entitled to compensation for their services, although this amount varies dramatically by jurisdiction.
The “reasonable person” is used as a yardstick to measure the insured's conduct in relation to an alleged breach of warranty.
These "split interest" trusts are defined in §664 of the Internal Revenue Code and are normally tax-exempt.
Additionally, efforts such as the accreditation standards of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, and other cooperative endeavors, have increased the uniformity of insurance regulation across the various states.
In life insurance, an age adjustment clause specifies that if the age of the insured has been understated, the amount payable upon his death shall be that amount which the premium charged would have purchased for the insured's correct age.
A notable example of this is where Zurich Financial Services - along with several other insurers - inflated policy prices in an anti-competitive fashion.
A surety may be entitled to be subrogated to the rights of the creditor as against the principal debtor.
The little plaintiff or defendant, who was promised a new rocking-horse when Jarndyce and Jarndyce should be settled, has grown up, possessed himself of a real horse, and trotted away into the other world.
"There was thus little difference between the formalities for a will and for a codicil", and an invalid will, when for example, no heir had been nominated, could often be validated as a codicil.
It was established via the passage of SB 461 and SJR 14 to make the fund constitutionally protected under West Virginia law.
[and the] purpose must also be that of a reasonably normal testator and cannot be capricious." In some jurisdictions, a trust for the saying of masses may be allowed.
In United States trust law, a SPA Trust is an irrevocable trust that includes a special power of appointment.
This sort of dedication of prayers towards particular individuals was a step towards the institutional chantry.
A typical incentive trust might encourage a beneficiary to complete a degree, enter a profession, or abstain from harmful conduct such as substance abuse.
The term is often used to describe a trust established during one's lifetime, i.e., an inter vivos trust as opposed to a testamentary trust that is established on one's death, usually as part of a will.
This means that all parties to an insurance contract must deal in good faith, making a full declaration of all material facts in the insurance proposal.
In Germany, for example, a forced heir receives at least half of what they would have received in the absence of a testament.
In the United States, §2-103 of the Uniform Probate Code, which has been adopted by a number of states, sets the outer limits of the right to inheritance with grandparents, aunts and uncles, and first cousins.
For instance, imagine a man bought a television set for $2,000 five years ago, which was destroyed in a hurricane.
Under the law in England and Wales oral wills are permitted to military personnel and merchant seamen on duty (see law report below) and it is common practice in Commonwealth countries.
It has not been recognised in English trusts law, although a number of judges have proposed that it be acknowledged.
In Ahmadiyya Islam, a testator is referred to as a moosi, who is someone that has signed up for Wasiyyat or a will, under the plan initiated by the Promised Messiah, thus committing a portion, not less than one-tenth, of his lifetime earnings and any property to a cause.
If the value of the lifetime gift received is greater than the beneficiary's calculated share under the will, the beneficiary receives nothing under the will, but does not return any of the lifetime gifts.
It is a legal doctrine whereby one person is entitled to enforce the subsisting or revived rights of another for their own benefit.
It is likewise called a "Utah Gap Trust" because the shortfall between the two amounts reminded the attorney of the space between buttes in the Utah countryside.
Rachel has standing to contest the will, as she is named in the document, but she will not be permitted to submit any evidence as to the mistake because it is not an ambiguous term.
Bermuda Form policies share certain similarities: for example, they exclude liability for asbestos and pollution.
Because of differences in state laws regarding will contracts, an estate planning attorney should be consulted before use of this planning device.
Even further, other states have more moderate policies, with California's homestead exemption law providing between $300,000 to $600,000 of exempt equity in a homestead, depending on the county where the debtor is located.
Alienation: B may divest his (absolutely) vested remainder, which is not subject to the rule against perpetuities.
In other countries, such as the United Kingdom, the executor is not automatically entitled to compensation, although compensation can be directed within the will or on application to a court.
Specifically, the clause usually specifies that the contract is in effect until 21 years after someone's death; the person indicated is whoever dies last out of all of the currently living descendants of a specified monarch.
As outlined by the Cornell Legal Information Institute, "The letters authorize the administrator to settle the deceased person's estate according to the state's intestate succession laws.
Lapse At common law, lapse occurs when the beneficiary or the devisee under the will predeceases the testator, invalidating the gift.
Legislation The Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) sets minimum capital and solvency requirements for companies wanting to enter or operate in the insurance market.
"In the United States, health care administration cost $294.3 billion, or $1,059 per capita (Table 1).
The law goes on to require that the statutes be applied to the enforcement by any other state of any spendthrift trust created within Nevada, so long as the law is not in direct conflict with the other adjudicating state.
Securities and Exchange Commission, but rather is established under Title 12, Section 9.18(a)(2) of the Code of Federal Regulations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), a division within the U.S.
He was later charged with committing mischief by wilfully damaging property exceeding $5,000 in value, and was subsequently acquitted.
Theodor Mommsen reconstructed this document for publication in the series Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum, which was considered as faithful as possible until the recovery of a further piece by Antonio Ferrua in the 1970s, which added to the first 19 lines of the inscription.
See also Doctrine of worthier title Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) Future interest Pro-rata Remainder (law) Vested Property Act (Bangladesh) References External links TIAA CREF discussion of vesting Archived 2007-09-28 at the Wayback Machine
Some jurisdictions will not recognize an oral contract for such a purpose, requiring instead that the contract be executed in writing and signed by both parties.
Florida's no-fault system sunsetted on 1 October 2007, but the Florida legislature passed a new no-fault law which took effect 1 January 2008.
Competency of an administrator Before an Administrator may be appointed, they must first be determined competent.
Encryption, which is changing information to hide something, Federal and state criminal laws that penalize what is thought of as unauthorized access to computers and data, and Federal and state privacy laws.
Act The UPOAA was designed to correct shortcomings of both the Uniform Probate Code and the Durable Power of Attorney by superseding them both.
£4,000 x 15 = £60,000 is the discount, or the amount of the gift which has technically been 'carved out' and retained (in reality this would be lowered a little to reflect the real cost of providing £4,000 over fifteen years assuming there is some return on capital held).
If the claimant's beneficial interest in the property is extinguished by the transfer, then no claim can be maintained in knowing receipt.
Historically, the courts have felt it more important to uphold the rights of the putative beneficiary and to avoid the unjust enrichment of the legatee than to uphold the general rule of public policy that property must devolve by will on death.
The total annual budget of the Department for Work and Pensions in the 2011/2012 financial year was £166.98 billion, with the largest slice by far - almost half - being spent on the State Pension, followed by Housing Benefit at slightly under £30 billion.
Also, some matters are by their very nature impossible to categorize under a single head of power: they may have both provincial and federal aspects.
In legal terms, succession is the process by which a deceased person's rights and property are transferred to their heirs, while inheritance is the property or assets those heirs receive.
The ORSA regulatory update from the NAIC follows the Solvency Modernization Initiative aimed at updating the US regulatory system.
If the protector has power to grant beneficial interests in the trust fund to the settlor, this may have disastrous tax consequences in some jurisdictions.
Courts may presume that gifts of money from a parent to a child after the execution of the parent's will are gifts in satisfaction of the child's legacy under the will, even without a written indication of intent to satisfy the provision under the will.
Individual covered entities can evaluate their own situation and determine the best way to implement addressable specifications.
The Pooled Income Fund was created by the Tax Reform Act of 1969 and is governed by IRS Section 642(c)(5).
To reduce the perceived risks of the American jury system and United States procedural rules, the policies usually provide for disputes to be resolved by arbitration, often in London, and for punitive damages to be excluded.
The CTA discouraged the use of discretionary trusts by introducing new tax rules, but it made a specific exception for trusts designed to help young people under the age of 25.
See also List of Supreme Court of Canada cases British Columbia v Imperial Tobacco Canada Ltd (2005) External links Full text of Supreme Court of Canada decision available at LexUM and CanLII
A rabbi trust may be used in this situation to defer the taxability to the payee of the deferred payments of the purchase price.
Long-term care provision in England and Wales, either at home or in a care home, is a means-tested benefit provided by or through local authorities.
The testator must sign and date the will, usually in the presence of at least two disinterested witnesses (persons who are not beneficiaries).
The aircraft, a Bell Jet Ranger leased from Max Sonnenberg, a Canadian aircraft lessor based in New Mexico, was operated by Shirley Air Services Ltd.
Today they hear matters involving contested wills of deceased estates and supervising estates that are probated judicially.
Under the old common law, a transaction would be void even if the property might possibly vest after the end of the maximum period, though now most jurisdictions have, by statute, adopted "wait and see" laws.
But before that transfer, the apartment building remains functioning and must be tended to by the administrator.
Later, in Numbers 36, some of the heads of the families of the tribe of Manasseh come to Moses and point out that if a daughter inherits and then marries a man not from her paternal tribe, her land will pass from her birth tribe's inheritance into her marriage tribe's.
Beginning in 2020, the fund started paying out dividends to finance activities such as education, human resource development, economic development, infrastructure development, and tax relief.
KC clauses were considered judicially by Lord Devlin (in relation to another issue) in West Wake Price & Co v Ching [1956] 3 All ER 821.
However, since the recipient had the opportunity to receive the funds outside of the trust in a given tax year, the gift is deemed to be a present interest, allowing it to be subject to the annual gift exclusion.
As long as the settlor is a beneficiary of the trust to any extent, to that extent the trust will be deemed self-settled.
While both countries now recognize trusts (particularly trusts established under the laws of another jurisdiction, such as Nevis), there is no available case law yet which indicates how the courts of those two countries will enforce offshore asset protection trust laws.
Typically, exempt property includes a family car, and a certain amount of cash (perhaps $10,000-$20,000), or the equivalent value in personal property.
Filing paperwork to the probate court In addition to filing the inventory, administrators must submit a wide array of paperwork to properly administer a decedent's estate.
Although a single document, the joint will is a separate distribution of property by each executor (signatory) and will be treated as such on admission to probate.
The party subsequently lost the 1935 provincial election, however, and the new government did not follow through with the insurance plan.
The physician's loss assessment is converted to a period of weeks, utilizing the schedule published in law, and then this number of weeks is multiplied by the wage basis to determine the total value of the SLU.
An allowance made by a creditor, particularly a storekeeper, in response to a complaint by the debtor respecting the accuracy of the account or other claim, or a reduction in the claim or account made to induce a prompt payment, is in a proper sense an adjustment.
Quantum He held that the "first" £25,000 should be ignored as the names had contractually agreed to bear that loss.
All group health plans that provide maternity or newborn infant coverage must include a statement in their summary plan description (SPD) advising individuals of the Act's requirements.
If the insurance policy lapses without payment of the insurance premium within the due date, vehicle inspection is mandatory.
Thomson Reuters define an attestation clause as where "a document has been executed in the presence of one or more witnesses (who attest the execution)".
This is typically accomplished by the state Medicaid agency filing a formal claim or placing a lien against the deceased beneficiary's estate during probate.
Discretionary trust the trustees may pay out income to whichever of the beneficiaries they, in the reasonable exercise of their discretion, think fit.
Sometimes, in England and Wales, a professional executor is named in the will – not a family member but (for example) a solicitor, bank or other financial institution.
(c) A trust containing terms authorized under Subsection (a) or (b) of this section may be referred to as a spendthrift trust.
A few weeks after the accident the victim's insurers will write to the victim with details of the other driver's claim which will be exaggerated with costs like car hire, recovery and whiplash injuries.
In the common law of England and Wales, it has been held, controversially, that where a trustee declares an intention to transfer trust property to a trust of which he is one of several trustees, that is a valid settlement notwithstanding the property is not vested in the other trustees.
Thus, for tax purposes, the initially calculated gift value is zero, since what will be paid back to the donor in annuity payments is anticipated to be about equal to what the donor invested, plus interest.
Also, this 'income' is dependent on there being sufficient capital remaining in the investment so in this example 4% per annum net growth is needed just to stand still.
The parties have namely at the conclusion of the contract accepted that the performances of the parties can be extremely unequal.
Commonwealth Parliament has power to make laws with respect to insurance and insurance companies under section 51(xiv) (insurance other than state insurance) and (xx) (the corporations power) of the Australian Constitution.
Section 20 of the Bill states that the definition of "spouse" in section 1 of the Intestate Succession Act, 1987 will include a registered domestic partner.
Legal Modifications and Limitations: Punitive damages do not constitute "insured losses" and thus no federal participation.
In the 1936 film Windbag the Sailor, an incompetent captain is given command of an unseaworthy vessel by a criminal gang that intends to scupper it and claim its insurance value.
Homestead property, which follows its own set of unique rules in states like Florida, must be dealt with separately from other assets.
394 (1972), was a Supreme Court case holding that a bank prohibited from doing insurance business did not need to include in gross income the insurance commissions on credit life insurance that the bank referred to an unrelated insurance company.
The most common examples of statute liability are in areas where an individual is required by law to effect insurance, e.g., workers' compensation and motor vehicle compulsory third party.
§7(J) provides that all audit and non-audit services to the insurer must be approved first by the insurers audit committee.
Active-duty members of the armed forces can create valid handwritten wills without any witnesses, or verbal wills with at least two witnesses.
Some jurisdictions have ameliorated specific problems of the rule by creating statutory presumptions to counter those problems.
Topics include: classes of insurance, code provisions governing the insurance commissioner, laws pertaining to insurance adjusters, insurance contracts, liability limitations, and common carrier liability insurance.
For example, if James's will states that he is leaving $500,000 to his son Sam then the money would be a general devise.
As a component of salary Many large companies grant stock or stock options in the form of restricted stock units to employees as part of their compensation.
In addition to the public benefits preservation reasons for such a trust, there are administrative advantages of using a trust to hold and manage property intended for the benefit of the beneficiary, especially if the beneficiary lacks the legal capacity to handle their own financial affairs.
To be valid at common law, a trust instrument must ascertain its beneficiaries, as well as the res (a Law Latin term meaning "thing") or subject matter of the trust, unless it is a charitable trust which does not provide specific beneficiaries.
The resultant gift to the heir receiving "500 shares," would be the date of death value of 500 shares of that particular stock.
A Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust (CRAT) is a Planned Giving vehicle defined in §664 of the United States Internal Revenue Code that entails a donor placing a major gift of cash or property into an irrevocable trust.
Pliny the Younger recounts the opening of the will of his friend Domitius Tullus, without providing any information on the legal language of the document.
A power of appointment is a term most frequently used in the law of wills to describe the ability of the testator (the person writing the will) to select a person who will be given the authority to dispose of certain property under the will.
External links [1] Considerations when acting as a Protector by Andrew Law, Published: 1 May 2007 == Footnotes ==
Oudh Bequest The Oudh Bequest is a waqf which led to the gradual transfer of more than six million rupees from the Indian kingdom of Oudh (Awadh) to the Shia holy cities of Najaf and Karbala between 1850 and 1903.
Regulation of insurance companies Insurance regulation that governs the business of insurance is typically aimed at assuring the solvency of insurance companies.
Today it applies to contracts in which the duration and amount of payments by one side will vary according to uncertain events, as happens in gambling, insurance, speculative investment and life annuities.
it amounts to such a fraud upon the principal, as to forfeit any right to compensation for services." Limitations Uberrima fides is strictly limited in English law to the formation of the insurance contract.
In the Canadian province of Alberta, royal lives clauses are routinely used in commercial oil and gas operating agreements.
“Non-disclosure” or “failure to disclose” is also a pre-contractual omission to provide information.
There was a tension in English law between Lister and Reid which was highlighted in Sinclair Investments (UK) Ltd v Versailles Trade Finance Ltd.
The principle is that a person who assumes an office ought not to be in a better position than if he were what he pretends; he is accountable as if he had the authority which he has assumed.
Many corporations call their governing board a board of trustees, though in those cases they act as a board of directors.
The Code makes a distinction between certain classes of beneficiaries with respect to the traditional reporting requirements for trustees with respect to the assets and transactions actually held in the trust.
Other types of letters of administration The more important cases of grants of special letters of administration include the following: Administration cum testamento annexo, where the deceased has left a will but has appointed no executor to it, or the executor appointed has died or refuses to act.
In 2014, the international design firm Wimberly Allison Tong & Goo (WATG) became the first US company to create employee ownership through an English EOT.
Cumis concluded as follows: We conclude the Canons of Ethics impose upon lawyers hired by the insurer an obligation to explain to the insured and the insurer the full implications of joint representation in situations where the insurer has reserved its rights to deny coverage.
The Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act of 1996 (passed as part of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 Pub.
The compliance cost burden has been identified as a structural disadvantage for small and medium-sized mutuals.
In terms of inheritance inequality, some economists and sociologists focus on the intergenerational transmission of income or wealth, which is said to directly affect one's mobility (or immobility) and class position in society.
A testator () is a person who has written and executed a last will and testament that is in effect at the time of their death.
No-contest clauses by state California In California, no-contest clauses are of limited effect, and will divest a party that unsuccessfully contests a will containing such a clause only if the court determines that the party brought the action without probable cause.
While the probate process is governed by state law, each county may have different procedures and customs.
Payments to creditors After properly inventorying the estate, an administrator must then pay all creditors of the decedent's estate.
An aleatory contract is a contract where an uncertain event outside of the parties' control determines their rights and obligations.
It is the interest in the property that is "left over", or remains, after the original grantee is finished possessing it.
Consequently, when the estate under administration consists wholly or mainly of land, the court will grant administration to the heir to the exclusion of the next of kin.
This request must be accompanied by “supporting documents” justifying its admissibility, which differ according to the damage suffered.
When introduced in the House on January 8, 2003, the bill was called the Two Floods and You Are Out of the Taxpayers' Pocket Act of 2003.
33) until the end of the next session of parliament after 7 years from 24 June 1685 (14 March 1693).
This could be to do a job, such as collect rents and profits for the purpose of passing them to a third person, Lucy.
When his second son, Henry, succeeded to his elder brother's property, he did not want to pass the other property to his younger brother, Charles.
It allows the gifting of a lump sum into a trust whilst retaining a lifelong 'income' from that money (technically withdrawals of capital), with the overarching aim of reducing the eventual inheritance tax (IHT) bill on death.
Reasons A corporation with little or no financial expertise may seek the services of a financial institution (often a corporation as well) through the creation of a corporate trust.
The annuity is paid to that non-charitable beneficiary for his or her lifetime, or for a fixed term of years (not to exceed 20 years).
For example, people have insurable interests in their own homes and vehicles, but not in their neighbors' homes and vehicles, and almost certainly not those of strangers.
Reverter to Settlor trust A trust where, on the death of the life tenant, the property reverts to the person making the gift.
Since then, Werner Eck has offered a new restoration of those lines based on Ferrua's discovery, which while commonly accepted is still considered tentative.
3000 Scholarships of 15,000 LKR each are awarded to children who get through the Year Five Scholarship examination with merit.
A company may have an insurable interest in a President/CEO or other employee with special knowledge and skills.
Includes a "Comparison of Major Distinctions in the California Family Rights Act / Family Medical Leave Act and Paid Family Leave (PFL) also known as Family Temporary Disability Insurance (FTDI)."
Potential benefits from a private annuity trust include lifetime income, deferral of capital gains and depreciation recapture, investment flexibility and diversification, enhancement of retirement income, and tax-free inheritance of the remaining trust funds by the designated beneficiaries.
The brother would then have the authority to choose which of the testator's children gets which property.
However, since the clause is within the will itself, a successful challenge to the will renders the clause meaningless.
Form A sample clause might read: The option must be exercised before the end of the period ending 21 years after the death of the last survivor of all the lineal descendants of His Majesty King Charles III who have been born before the date of this agreement.
The journal is published 12 times per year with a Wealth Management Resource Guide bonus issue in December.
Rights and interest The nature of a beneficiary's interest in the trust fund varies according to the type of trust.
Any Occupation TPD - the claimant must be unable to work in their occupation and also any occupation that they are suited to via education, training or experience ever again.
It is notoriously difficult to apply properly: in 1961, the Supreme Court of California ruled that it was not legal malpractice for an attorney to draft a will that inadvertently violated the rule.
References Solomon, Todd; Adams, Joseph (2006), Domestic Partner Benefits: An Employer's Guide (2 ed.), Washington, D.C.: Thompson Publishing Group, ISBN 978-1-930872-27-1
The Law will invalidate non-holographic wills by end of 2020, if only the signature is written by hand, and the document has not been presented to a notary.
Sections 5 and 7 of the act were repealed by section 1 of, and the first schedule to, Law of Property (Amendment) Act 1924 (15 & 16 Geo.
Forty-eight states have enacted laws that strip a slayer of any inheritance benefit he would have gained from his unlawful act.
A testator might be suffering from an insane delusion but otherwise possess the requisite capacity to make a will.
The person founding the trust (called the settlor) will be the injured party (that is except in limited circumstances involving an official compensatory body such as the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority).
Benefit rates The California Employment Development Department offers a tool to help calculate benefit payment amounts.
Restricted capacitas Most important, the fideicommissum enabled transferring property by will to those excluded from inheriting.
In a September 2010 visit with Falls Church, Virginia, residents, Obama referred to a woman with an eye condition and a woman with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma as personal examples in the audience of those benefiting from changing pre-existing condition rules.
Certain jurisdictions (principally, offshore jurisdictions) have enacted legislation validating non-charitable purpose trusts generally.
This setup mirrors a deed of trust in English law, where property is held under specific conditions rather than owned outright.
While a PIF might pay 3%, the standard recommended Charitable Gift Annuities payout rate for a 70-year-old was above 5%.
The federal government's role is not only limited to financing, but it also regulates medical products such as pharmaceuticals, as well as funding medical research.
Benefits As of 2006, DBL offers a benefit of 50% of weekly wages to a maximum of $170 per week of benefit beginning on the right day of disability.
who possesses relevant knowledge within the insured organisation); and Section 5 defines the insurer's knowledge.
A central change in the proposal is the elimination of the distinction between "required" and "addressable" implementation specifications that has existed since the Security Rule took effect in 2005.
Joey drives a 1974 AMC Gremlin at the time of the testamentary instrument, but later sells the Gremlin and purchases a 2016 Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead Coupé with suicide doors and teak paneling.
It is frequently difficult to ascertain from a will which of these interests a testator intended to grant.
If the grantor is older there is a greater likelihood that the grantor will die during the term of the retained interest (when a contingent reversion is retained by the grantor).
Although there is a restriction on persons under 18 owning the legal title to land, they may nonetheless take ownership of the equitable beneficial interest under a trust.
The court later granted a joint motion for dismissal with prejudice after denying motions for summary judgement.
Terminology Executor An executor is a person appointed by a will to act on behalf of the estate of the will-maker (the "testator") upon their death.
Naturally, this rate is a huge inducement among many with substantial wealth to use various estate planning devices to reduce or eliminate the effect of the tax for their family.
indicate the amount of his or her resources, the elements establishing the impossibility of obtaining compensation elsewhere, and the description of the serious material or psychological situation resulting from the offence.
Hangarter subsequently brought a diversity action against Paul Revere, alleging violation of § 17200 of the Unfair Competition Act, breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and intentional misrepresentation.
The doctrine of exoneration of liens (sometimes simply referred to as "doctrine of exoneration") refers to a common law rule.
In the United States, the common law rule has been abolished by statute in Alaska, Idaho, New Jersey, Kentucky, Rhode Island, and South Dakota.
In the context of development aid, the term "beneficiaries" refer to the persons and the communities that receive and benefit from the projects created from the development aid.
More specifically, it could be: "A property interest that inures solely to the benefit of the owner", or Property that "remains of an estate after the payment of debts and the expenses of administration", or The right of a person having a power of appointment to appoint himself".
In AA Mutual Life v Singh, the policy in question was a ten-year endowment policy, coupled with life cover.
The case is different from Regal (Hastings) Ltd v Gulliver, because there was no interference with a profit-making opportunity that properly belonged to the prosecutor.
Family trusts are the typical discretionary trust, used to hold the personal or business assets of a family.
In the law of the Republic of Ireland, the Succession Act 1965 reduces freedom of testation by guaranteeing provision for the spouse and children of the deceased.
Many Tudor businessmen, such as Thomas Bell (1486–1566) of Gloucester, acquired chantries as financial investments for the afterlife, but yielding income streams in the here and now, derived from chantry rents; or the chantry assets could be "unbundled" and sold on piecemeal at a profit.
Also, in ten specific counties the Texas Legislature has established one or more Probate Courts to handle probate matters, removing them from county or district court jurisdiction.
However, protectors now form a part of mainstream tax planning in most jurisdictions which recognise trusts.
There may be extra witnesses, these are called "supernumerary" witnesses, if there is a question as to an interested-party conflict.
The anchor with the cable attached was hauled out of the water, and Vallée freed it by cutting the cable with an electric saw.
Bodily Injury Coverage Uninsured Motorist Uninsured Motorist Bodily Injury Coverage covers a victim's medical expenses, lost wages, and other injury related expenses in an instance where the other driver is not insured.
Personal property The history of wills of personalty was considerably different, but to some extent followed parallel lines.
When he died in 1776, the estate was tied up, and his daughter-in-law Charlotte Smith was pushed by financial necessity to write for money; she became a much-praised poet.
He further stated that previous year's legislation made future contributions to the fund impossible, and that there was no money in the fund.
A contingent beneficiary is someone who benefits from a contingent contract; they profit from a promise, which may or may be fulfilled, to do or abstain from doing a certain thing.
While such provisions can help give these obligations a good rating, they make it difficult to finance growth through new borrowing.
It does not need to be registered with the court; the persons administering the estate are obliged to retain the communication as they may be required to provide an account to the court of their actions in the administration.
Local government in the United States Depending on the state, a trustee is a member of the village board of trustees, which is a village's elected legislative body as outlined by local or state law.
Level 2 measures Level 2 measures are technical implementing measures to complement the principles defined in the level 1 text, in view of the operational implementation requirements.
Aside from the lawyers who sue and defend the case, every character who directly associates with it suffers some tragic fate.
The KLTR as standard practice will sell ultimus haeres land on the open market and place any monies raised on a public register for descendants of the deceased to view.
See also Asset protection Beneficial owner Beneficial use Corporate benefit Lien Purpose trust Quistclose trust Resulting trust Use (law) Third-party beneficiary Trust (law) == References ==
On this view, anyone who receives property that was given away in breach of trust has a strict duty to repay the value, unless they have committed a wrong, or have changed their position after the receipt.
Domestic asset protection trusts Several states have changed their laws to provide that a person may create a self-settled spendthrift trust (i.e., a spendthrift trust for his or her own benefit).
It is not necessary that, in addition, the trustee or fiduciary was acting dishonestly...'Knowingly' is better avoided as a defining ingredient of the principle...
For income tax purposes, the income so accruing to the income beneficiary is taxable income of the beneficiary, and taxed accordingly, unless otherwise exempted.
It is created to address any estate accumulated during that person's lifetime or generated as a result of a postmortem lawsuit, such as a settlement in a survival claim, or the proceeds from a life insurance policy held on the settlor.
In some jurisdictions, only an original will may be admitted to probate—even the most accurate photocopy will not suffice.
Local As an entity that was created within the boundaries of Delaware and is written into the Delaware state charter, Title 12 Chapter 38, there is no question as to where the state stands on the backing of the Delaware statutory trust.
It may also mean the interest of a beneficiary of a life insurance policy to prove need for the proceeds, called the "insurable interest doctrine".
In commercial fire insurance it is possible to find single properties whose total exposed value is well in excess of any individual insurer's capital constraint.
The double aspect doctrine, which applies in the course of a pith and substance analysis, ensures that the policies of the elected legislators of both levels of government are respected.
As for the sale of land under an executory contract, traditional case law agrees that ademption occurs upon the death of the testator and that the proceeds of sale, when the closing occurs, should not pass to the specific devisee of the property.
It would cause considerable surprise in the industry if such a company was to find itself designated a trustee de son tort.
The gift value is set equal to the initial contribution to the GRAT plus a theoretical interest earned on the principal, minus the annuity payments that would be made through the end of the term.
If a liability insurer exposes the insured to excess risk by failing to settle within policy limits, they may be liable for any damages incurred.
He believed "bequest" in 102(a) had been interpreted by the courts to include bequests made for consideration between the beneficiary and decedent.
Section 102(a) of the Code makes an exception for bequests stating that "Gross income does not include the value of property acquired by gift, bequest, or inheritance." In general this means that the value or amount of the bequest does not need to be included in a taxpayer's gross income.
United Steelworkers 2013 SCC 6 See also Thorner v Majors [2009] UKHL 18, per Lord Scott Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale v Islington LBC, per Lord Browne-Wilkinson References P Birks, 'Rights, Wrongs and Remedies' (2000) 1 OJLS 1
Uninsured means the driver or owner of a motor vehicle has no insurance at all, while an underinsured person has insurance, but the coverage is insignificant compared to the potential damages accrued from a tort lawsuit.
Overview The principal reason for such clauses is to minimise conflict between the insured and the insurer.
A resulting trust is implied by the law to work out the presumed intentions of the parties, but it does not take into consideration their expressed intent.
In trust law, a protector is a person appointed under the trust instrument to direct or restrain the trustees in relation to their administration of the trust.
Many plaintiffs' attorneys also argued that defense lawyers had many ways to establish different theories of exposure.
Depending on the state, they may be characterized as judicial, quasi-judicial, or non-judicial proceedings.
However, if the will did not confirm the codicil, all provisions in the codicil were considered fideicommissa.
The following guidelines are issued to implement the Supreme Court guidelines via a circular issued to insurers under Section 14(2) of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Agency of India Act, 1999, effective September 1, 2018.
Residuary estate - the portion of an estate remaining after the payment of expenses and the distribution of specific bequests; this passes to the residuary legatees.
Family trusts pay no tax, with the funds directed into the trust then distributed to individual beneficiaries who then pay tax at the appropriate rate.
If it is not foreseen by the constitutive contract, the property assets cannot be alienated by either the trustee or the beneficiary.
Facts The appellants were a syndicate of names at Lloyds, (referred to in the judgment as "the names") and had agreed to underwrite certain insurance policies relating to asbestos claims in 1992.
In trust law the term "doctrine of merger" refers to the fusing of legal and equitable title in the event the same person becomes both the sole trustee and the sole beneficiary of a trust.
Roman precursors to trusts Roman law had a well-developed concept analogous to the trust called fideicommissa.
Assigned risk is a government-required method of providing insurance coverage to an individual by compelling insurance companies to service them when such companies would ordinarily not do so due to perceived risk of insuring the individual as a customer.
In the first case the principle of administration cum testamento is followed, in the second that of general grants in the selection of the person to whom letters are granted.
An analogy can be drawn to the concept of last donations (donatio mortis causa) established by Roman law and still in effect in England and Wales.
References Robert Frank, The Wrong Way to Leave Money to Heirs, The Wealth Report, Wall Street Journal Online, May 15, 2007.
A beneficial interest is also "distinguished from the rights of someone like a trustee or official who has responsibility to perform and/or title to the assets but does not share in the benefits".
On the other hand, the professional organization which regulates that industry, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, has voted unanimously to recommend the repeal of alcohol exclusionary laws.
In the statutory law of wills and trusts, an attestation clause is a clause that is typically appended to a will, often just below the place of the testator's signature.
In the civil case that followed, Justice Joanne Veit of the Alberta Court of Queen’s Bench found that Rasmussen had committed fraud by submitting a false proof-of-loss statement for the damaged helicopter without the owner’s consent.
Inquests themselves generally are public proceedings, though the accused may not be entitled to attend.
This recognition often involves "translating" the trust's characteristics into legal concepts that do exist within the civil law country.
The whole act was repealed by Northern Ireland by section 1(1) of, and the first schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1950 (14 Geo.
Common trusts Express trust In an express trust, the settlor indicates an intention to and deliberately creates the trust, while a non-express trust is one that arises by operation of law, such as when created by statute or by judges, such as a constructive trust.
The results identified concentrations of climate-sensitive assets in life insurance portfolios across several member states, and informed the calibration choices subsequently embedded in Directive (EU) 2025/2.
The California Insurance Equality Act (AB 2208) is a state law that requires California insurance providers and managed care plans (HMOs) to provide coverage for registered domestic partners that is equal to spousal coverage.
Characteristics The arrangement is simple and passive: generally, the nominee is not required to do anything except carry out specific (lawful) actions if so directed by the beneficiaries.
Essentially, this document is issued to the person who will administer the estate of someone who dies without a will.
In recognition of the prejudice this causes defendants, courts often extend or reopen discovery when the failure to produce trust claims is exposed.
The trust laws of the Cook Islands provide a shortened statute of limitations on fraudulent transfer claims.
To successfully provide the unremediated internal control weaknesses report, the concept of materiality must be explained.
After the testator dies, the person named in the will as executor can decline or renounce the position, and if so should quickly notify the probate court accordingly.
Spouse only, no descendants Where the deceased is survived by a spouse, but not by a descendant, the spouse inherits the intestate estate.
The depreciation is usually calculated by establishing a useful life of the item determining what percentage of that life remains.
This must be kept in mind when considering succession and estate planning involving assets held in a discretionary trust.
Oregon Oregon enforces no-contest clauses against losing parties even when there was probable cause to contest the will.
Societies, gentlemen's clubs, and mutual associations began to flourish in England, with the upper classes increasingly adopting a philanthropic attitude toward the disadvantaged.
This was a sensible option if the disclaiming party was an heir by descent, whose own children would then take in his place and without the imposition of a gift tax.
23) until the end of the next session of parliament after 7 years from the start of the present session of parliament.
Justice Frankfurter allowed that Congress's power under the Commerce Clause reached these actions but argued that the Sherman Act was not an express warrant that Congress intended to enter this area of commerce.
Uniform Partition of Heirs Property Act In 2010, the Uniform Law Commission drafted a model Uniform Partition of Heirs Property Act.
Those persons who used the PAT before the IRS ruling were to be grandfathered in and would continue to result in tax deferral benefits.
Hon'ble Delhi HC coverage of pillion rider &occupants in private car Oriental Insurance Co Vs Surendranadh Loomba and others, Supreme court of India
Trump legal work (2022–2025) In November 2021, Halligan met former president Donald Trump at Trump International Golf Club, according to a statement she provided to The Washington Post.
The device was often used by people who might be absent from the kingdom for an extended time (as on a Crusade, or a business venture), who held a tenancy in the land and in return owed feudal incidents (services) to the landlord.
Growth Historically, only about one or two patents per year issued in the US on inventions specifically related to insurance policies.
Today, trusts play a significant role in most common law systems, and their success has led some civil law jurisdictions to incorporate trusts into their civil codes.
They were generally eliminated in the 1870s with the success of reforms championed by British MP Samuel Plimsoll.
Estate and gift tax aspects of residence trusts If a grantor dies during the retained term of a residence trust, the full value of the trust property is included in the grantor's estate under Code Section 2036(a)(1) (because the grantor retains the right to possess or enjoy the property).
External links http://www.floodsmart.gov Federal law authorizing NFIP Experts: Flood terms mislead public MSNBC
The Uniform Trust Code is a model law in the United States created by the Uniform Law Commission, which, although not binding, is influential in the states and used by many as a model law.
Medicaid Law Medicaid is the Federal program administered by the states which provides health care for those who cannot afford it, based primarily on a standard of impoverishment.
Dependency – When a victim is dependent upon the influencer for companionship, transportation, housekeeping, food, hydration, medicine, etc.
On December 17, 2019 the House of Representatives voted 297-120 to approve the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (H.R.
If the deceased beneficiary was intended to inherit part or all of the residuary estate, then that portion of the estate would pass by intestate succession, as though the testator had left no will.
An executor is someone who is responsible for executing, or following through on, an assigned task or duty.
For a charitable trust to be considered valid, the organization must demonstrate both a charitable purpose and a public benefit.
An essential basis for calculating a Schedule Loss of Use ("SLU") is often a multiple of the injured employee's pre-injury average weekly wage, or some percentage thereof, as determined by a state's Workers' Compensation Law.
It is most controversially used to incorporate privately authored voluntary consensus standards into health and safety regulations without infringing the standards developers' copyright.
3, 2007 SCC 22 is a landmark decision in Canadian constitutional law by the Supreme Court of Canada (SCC) relating to the division of powers between Federal and Provincial legislative bodies.
Other meaning The term inter vivos is also used to describe living organ donation, in which one patient donates an organ to another while both are alive.
The law also made the California Insurance Commissioner an elected position (previously being a governor-appointed position).
However, as states began enacting varying statutes to create a statutory framework for the durable powers of attorney, variations from state to state prompted support for a uniform law.
The disability of a woman as a witness was removed by the Titles to Land Consolidation (Scotland) Act 1868.
In some jurisdictions, the donee's creditors cannot reach the appointive property when the donee has a presently exercisable power of appointment as long as the power is unexercised.
Many jurisdictions have enacted statutes that permit a pretermitted child to demand an inheritance under the will.
It established that "extra billing" was not permitted by physicians or dentists; this means they could not charge or collect money from a patient that was in addition to what the Minister covered.
In arguing for the imposition of conditions on the release of federal aid to California wildfire victims, U.S.
Wolder and Boyce entered into and satisfied the obligations of a contract for services providing for a "postponed payment" in the form of a bequest.
Previously, it was thought that the dishonest assistant would not be liable unless the defaulting trustee was also dishonest or fraudulent, but Royal Brunei Airlines v Tan confirmed that there is no such requirement in English law.
The doctrine of acts of independent significance at common law permits a testator to effectively change the disposition of his property without changing a will, if acts or events changing the disposition have some significance beyond avoiding the requirements of the will.
Generally, irrevocable trusts can be used for minors, beneficiaries with physical or mental challenges, and as a method of asset protection.
A blind trust is a trust in which the beneficiaries have no knowledge of the holdings of the trust, and no right to intervene in their handling.
A secret trust is a trust which arises when property is left to a person (the legatee) under a will on the understanding that they will hold the property as trustee for the benefit of beneficiaries who are not named in the will.
Interjurisdictional immunity should in general be reserved for situations already covered by precedent.
108–264 (text) (PDF)) reformed the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and the terms of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968.
One beneficiary may be entitled to income (for example, interest from a bank account), whereas another may be entitled to the entirety of the trust property when they attain a specified age.
A will may contain more than one testamentary trust, and may address all or any portion of the estate.
But if the insurer accepts the defense without a reservation of rights, it must defend completely and loses the right to recover the cost of defense from the insured even if it later discovers that the entire claim was uninsurable to begin with.
a mortgage) of a property conveyed by a will is discharged with funds from the originating estate, not from the property itself.
During the mid-20th century, American courts expanded it much farther into a post-formation implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
It also affirmed that the limitation of liability regime under the Convention is "virtually unbreakable", which was already the view of many legal observers.
There is a personal representative of the estate who will determine if the real estate is going to be sold.
424, it was held that such a trust was not within the corporation tax provisions of the tariff act of Aug.
Will contests generally focus on the assertion that the testator lacked testamentary capacity, was operating under an insane delusion, or was subject to undue influence or fraud.
Accordingly, a trustee de son tort is not a person who is formally appointed as a trustee, but one who assumes such a role, and then cannot be heard to argue that he did not owe fiduciary duties.
Motor vehicle insurance In the United States, a state government, usually the Department of Motor Vehicles, assigns the risky motorists to automobile insurance companies.
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 39(1) of, and schedule 5 to, the Charities Act 1960 (8 & 9 Eliz.
The “grantor” (also called a settlor or trustor in some states) is the person who creates the trust, which may take effect during a person's lifetime or at death.
The act's provisions The act prohibits insurers from rejecting customerrs' claims because they have given the wrong information about an irrelevant element of their policy.
Newton, the Supreme Court of the United States held that the park could not continue to be operated on a racially discriminatory basis.
Trusts which are set up to protect vulnerable beneficiaries, such as blind trusts or spendthrift trusts will have specific provisions relating to the nature of the beneficiaries.
Impact As Peracomo was concerned with the interpretation of the Convention, and could therefore have a wide-reaching impact on commercial maritime law around the world, the case attracted international attention.
If the covered entities utilize contractors or agents, they must be fully trained on their physical access responsibilities.
If Japan does not regain its independence within the next two years, the JSDF will end up as American mercenaries forever as the leftists say.
A Massachusetts Business Trust (MBT) is a legal trust set up for the purposes of business, but not necessarily one that is operated in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Generally, upon the death of the Appointor, in the absence of an alternate appointment in the trust deed, the personal legal representative (executor) of the Appointor becomes the Appointor.
External links Senate Archived 2004-11-09 at the Wayback Machine and House Archived 2014-12-13 at the Wayback Machine Summary, from a Library of Congress website Blumenauer's January 2003 news release about the bill
If contact is required, it can be any kind of contact, such as that between two cars, but can also consist of a vehicle contacting the leg of a motorcyclist or a motorcycle tire.
American tax law Recipients In order to calculate a taxpayer's income tax obligation, the gross income of the taxpayer must be determined.
The attestation clause of a will is where the witnesses to a will attest to certain facts concerning the making of the will by the testator, and where they sign their names as witnesses.
A fiduciary trust is a fiduciary relationship in which a trustee holds the title to assets for the beneficiary.
In September 2009, the monthly Kaiser Health Tracking Poll report said: The public's most unanimous and bipartisan support is saved for a proposal to have the federal government require that health insurance companies cover anyone who applies, even if he/she has a pre-existing condition.
States coordinate through a nonprofit trade association of state regulatory agencies called the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which proposes model laws which may be adopted by the members.
These strategies may be passive (e.g., indexed or model-driven) or actively managed (e.g., pursuing growth or value strategies).
Third-party supplemental needs trusts A third-party special needs trust (SNT) is a specialized, non-self-settled trust designed to hold assets for the benefit of a disabled beneficiary, with funds originating solely from someone other than the beneficiary, such as parents or grandparents.
Section 7 of the act was repealed by section 1 of, and the schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1863 (26 & 27 Vict.
A married person has an insurable interest in the life of their spouse, and minor children have an insurable interest in their parents.
The Act includes the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019 which further extends the TRIPRA for an additional 7 years, expiring on December 31, 2027.
the trust) and that must be because otherwise the family would be unjustly enriched by receiving the proceeds of the insurance policy purchased with the beneficiaries' money.
It states on page 1681 of Black's Law Dictionary 4Ed., 1957, under the term "Massachusetts or Business Trust"; See "Trust Estate as Business Company." This particular definition is found on page 1684 and it states this:TRUST ESTATE AS BUSINESS COMPANIES.
A coffin ship is any ship that has been overinsured and is therefore worth more to its owners sunk than afloat.
In such jurisdictions, only a devisee who survives more than 120 hours after the testator is considered to have met this "statutory survival test." Anti-lapse statutes Most common-law jurisdictions have enacted an anti-lapse statute to address this situation.
Nevertheless, they have not enjoyed widespread usage in Italy, mainly because of the scarce knowledge of their functioning.
Characteristically, discretionary trusts provide for a discretionary distribution of income only, but in some cases the trustees also have a power of appointment with respect to the capital in the trust, i.e.
It is historically associated with English common law, and contrasted with forced heirship, where part or all of the estate is automatically inherited by the next of kin.
The type of coverage provided by the plan (insured or self-insured) and state law will determine whether the Act applies to a mother's or newborn's coverage.
The act also prohibits employers from asking for more proof of partnership of domestic partners than they ask of spouses.
An Anti-alienation clause is a provision in the governing document for an arrangement, such as a trust, that specifies that the beneficial or equitable owner of the property held in that arrangement cannot transfer the interest to a third party.
Reuters reported that California's price controls were so effective that before the Palisades Fire, insurance costs in Pacific Palisades, California (which was mostly wiped out) were cheaper than in 97% of all ZIP Codes in the United States.
A child may also be denied the right to take under the will as a pretermitted heir if the child received an advancement against their inheritance - an inter vivos gift from the testator of an amount equivalent to what child might have otherwise received under the will.
The 120-hour period is intended to simplify estate administration by preventing an inheritance from being transferred more times than necessary.
Subsequent developments Several acts continued by the act were further continued by the Estreats (Personal Representatives) Act 1692 (4 Will.
Such fault, which may be invoked against the heirs of the direct victim, could, for example, be accepted in cases of recklessness, insults, or participation in a criminal activity.
This includes their removal, the appointment of new trustees, or even temporarily assuming control of the trust property to prevent harm.
Louisiana, applying civil law, has a similar default provision in intestate successions called a usufruct, which is only over community property and ends with the earlier of death or remarriage.
Rates for cases with more than 50 employees are usually given as a dollar amount per employee, per month (called a "per capita rate") with no division into male- and female-specific rates, or as a dollar amount per $100 of covered payroll.
Cost Disclosure of Terrorism Coverage: Insurers must disclose terrorism insurance premiums and the existence of the federal backstop.
Although still called KC clauses, such clauses often provide that the advice of a junior barrister of a certain seniority may be taken.
The whole act was repealed for England and Wales by section 56 of, and part I of the second schedule to, the Administration of Estates Act 1925 (15 & 16 Geo.
In February 2010, the House of Representatives voted 406-19 to repeal the McCarran–Ferguson Act with regard to health insurance.
The trust beneficiaries are notified by the trustee that they have the power to withdraw some or all of the gift to the trust for a specified time period.
In the property and casualty insurance industry, actual cash value (ACV) is a method of valuing insured property, or the value computed by that method.
In such an agreement, one party (the promisee) will provide some performance in exchange for a promise by the other party (the testator, because they must draft a will) to make a specific bequest to the promisee party in the testator's will.
The board establishes committees to make recommendations to it about health information technology, medical homes, clinical care and safety guidelines, and preventive care and improved health outcomes.
Purposes Some advantages to a voting trust include: Several shareholders may wish to create a unified block of votes, which together gives them more power than the collective sum of their fragmented interests.
The EOT ownership model is also recognised in the United States (where it may be labelled differently, such as perpetual trust or steward-ownership trust) as an alternative to the ESOP.
Unlike a general power of appointment, the refusal of the appointed party to exercise a specific power of appointment causes the designated property to revert as a gift to the members of a group or a class.
Qualified personal residence trusts Similar to PRTs, QPRTs must comply with certain requirements to avoid valuation under Code Section 2702.
History Prior to the law, only the Marine Insurance Act, 1906 of England existed in British India but it only applied to marine insurance.
This percentage may not be less than 5 percent nor more than 50 percent of the net fair market value of the CRUT's assets.
In such a case, the trust is sometimes deemed to have terminated (with the result that the beneficiary owns the trust property outright).
They acted somewhat like a grand jury, determining whether a person should be committed to trial in connection to a death.
SustiNet passed its first legislative hurdle Thursday, March 26, receiving an endorsement from the state legislature's Public Health Committee.
§§ 1011–1015, is a United States federal law that exempts the business of insurance from most federal regulation, including federal antitrust laws to a limited extent.
Based on his age and gender and on HMRC guidelines (drafted with reference to mortality tables), his life expectancy is deemed to be 15 years.
The British later gradually took over the bequest and its distribution; according to scholars, they intended to use it as a "power lever" to influence Iranian ulama and Shia.
The name of the device derives from the lack of any beneficiary legally capable of enforcing an honorary trust: the trustee is bound by honor, but not by law, to carry out the wishes of the creator of the trust.
The Scottish equivalent of an inquest is a fatal accident inquiry, held where there is a sudden, suspicious, accidental, or unexplained death, which is ordered by a procurator fiscal and presided over by a sheriff without a jury.
This was particularly true of wardship, because most other feudal dues had fallen from practice by the late Middle Ages.
In the trust system, the bankruptcy courts use actuarial models to determine the trust's share of responsibility based on disease and occupation.
The Matching adjustment mechanism of Solvency II has also been criticised as a form of creative accounting that hides the real value of liabilities.
In some states, a civil township may be administered by a trustee or a group of trustees; see Indiana Township Trustee for an example.
See also Affidavit Police oath Testator Testimony Notes References Burns' Annotated Indiana Statutes, ss.
In some legal systems, a settlor is also referred to as a trustor, or occasionally, a grantor or donor.
He disagreed with Lord Hutton's view in Twinsectra that Lord Millett was articulating a purely objective test.
The appeals court determined that a written declaration of trust by the decedent was sufficient to create a trust and a separate deed transferring the property to the trust was not required.
from 2003 until 2015, the Orange Blossom 100 was named the Pete Orr Memorial, with the family supporting the race; Orr had won the event four times, more than any other driver.
https://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Frequently-Asked-Questions-on-Gift-Taxes
The governing document of such a trust provides that the trust corpus may not be reached by creditors while the property is held in the trust.
Additionally, while an insane delusion may cause portions of a will to fail, most courts will not reform or invalidate a will because of a mistake unless it was the result of fraud.
Jainism The Jain ethical code contains the vow of brahmacarya (meaning "pure conduct"), which prescribes the expectations for Jains concerning sexual activity.
Trial of Louis XVI and First Republic Many red priests voted for the death of Louis XVI during his trial, just like Father Jean Bassal, the parish priest of Versailles and deputy from Seine-et-Oise, who voted for the death of the king, against reprieve and against appealing to the people.
He must not create the causes, conditions, methods, or karma of killing, and shall not intentionally kill any living creature.
However, following Eduard Sievers, it is usually now spelled with a short o and taken as meaning "herd boar, leading boar", as Lombardic sonarþair is defined in the Edictus Rothari as the boar "which fights and beats all other boars in the herd".
The 1704 oath of allegiance for Catholics was replaced in 1774 by Roman Catholic Relief Act 1773 [13 & 14 Geo.
(G) Even if I cannot heal a patient with the proper diet, proper medicine and proper nursing I will still minister to him, out of compassion.
A breach of the precept is considered more serious if the falsehood is motivated by an ulterior motive (rather than, for example, "a small white lie").
The oath marked the culmination of Pius X's campaign against the theological movement of Modernism, which he analyzed and denounced as heretical in his 1907 encyclicals Pascendi Dominici gregis and Lamentabili sane exitu.
Vows The following are the 22 vows administered by Ambedkar to his followers: I shall have no faith in Brahma, Vishnu and Maheshwara, and I shall not worship them.
It is believed by Ambedkarite Buddhists that these vows are the guidelines of the social revolution that motivates human instincts.
In the Catholic Church, the vow of obedience is one of the three vows of professing to live according to the evangelical counsels.
The sisters known as "extern sisters" (or "externs") do not make this additional vow in order to be able to handle some of the community's needs outside the papal enclosure.
Once he had received holy orders or made a religious profession, however, any marriage he contracted was considered null and void.
Male members of the church who meet standards of worthy behavior and church participation are generally ordained to specific offices within the priesthood.
We decree in accordance with the definitions of the sacred canons, that marriages already contracted by such persons must be dissolved, and that the persons be condemned to do penance.
Like the pārājikas, the saṅghādisesas can only come about through the monk's own intention and cannot be accidentally invoked.
This established a formal split among the Saint Thomas Christians into two factions: the Pazhayakuttukar, or "Old Allegiance," loyal to the Catholic Church under Bishop Palliveettil Chandy, and the Puthankuttukar, or "New Allegiance," led by Thoma I.
It remained in force until the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, with the approval of Paul VI, replaced it (along with the Tridentine Profession of Faith) with a revised profession of faith in 1967.
See also Credo of the People of God (profession of faith of Pope Paul VI) References Sources Patrologia Latina, 105, columns 9-188
The second symbol, a crescent with a disc, is the symbol of Baʿal Ḥammon; it appears on stelae dedicated to both Tinnit and Baal Hammon or only to Baal Hammon, but does not appear on stelae dedicated only to Tinnit.
Vows from the Avataṃsaka Sūtra The Avataṃsaka Sūtra, a large composite text, contains various passages discussing the practices and vows that bodhisattvas undertake.
Institute of Indology, This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain.
Ambiguous expressions in some anti-Catholic writings could lead incautious readers to suppose that the text in the Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum was used by all newly elected Popes until the eleventh century and that it had been in use since the fifth century.
Purpose In the context of uposatha practice, observing the eight precepts is described by the Buddha in the early texts as "cleansing of the sullied mind through expedient means" (Pali: upakkamena).
In some periods and places the precepts were widely observed, such as in 7th–10th-century China by government officials.
In later texts, details such as intercourse at an inappropriate time or inappropriate place are also counted as breaches of the third precept.
It was conceived that the first act was evaded in consequence of those who had a right to avail themselves of it not doing so.
As for those who repent, believe, and do good deeds, they are the ones whose evil deeds Allah will change into good deeds.
However, a bishop – who, in the Orthodox Church, must always be a monk – may tonsure a monk or nun into any degree regardless of his own monastic rank.
Reviewing Halakhic and Aggadic literature, Jacob Neusner writes that Jewish sages generally viewed the vow of the nazirite to be shrouded in "arrogance" and "weakness".
However, the 1917 Code abolished the distinction according to which solemn vows, unlike simple vows, were indissoluble.
Symbolic penalties were common as teaching methods in the 1800s in oath-bound societies (e.g., Freemasonry, etc.), and were inspired in the Church not only by such societies but also by Biblical and Book of Mormon texts.
If a Nazirite touches a corpse or carries a funeral bier, or goes into a building that contains a corpse, their vow is ended as unfulfilled.
See also Ad tuendam fidem Humani generis Providentissimus Deus References External links The original Latin text of Sacrorum antistitum English translation of Sacrorum antistitum in The American Catholic Quarterly Review (October 1910: vol.
Fourth century The Council of Elvira (306) is often seen as the first to issue a written regulation requiring clergy to abstain from sexual intercourse.
And may that sulphur and pitch flow down upon your neck that flowed over Sodom and Gomorrah, and the same pitch that flowed over Babylon flow over you, but two hundred times more, and may the earth envelop and swallow you up as it did Dathan and Abiram.
Mary of Loretto, in the marc of Ancona, territory of the pope, which is the house where Our Lady has performed so many miracles, this fell upon a sailor of Puerto de Santa Maria, called Pedro de Villa; the Admiral promised to furnish him with money for his expenses.
In Roman Catholicism, a declaration of faith may be used in various circumstances, both for purpose of conversion and of reaffirmation.
Others had more practical objections, knowing that deep-seated religious beliefs would not be eliminated quickly, and that mobilizing popular support for the Revolution was of top importance.
The Criminal Law Commission's 1845 report on oaths said sections 1, 3, and 6 of the 1704 act had fallen into disuse and should be repealed.
Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar and Jómsvíkinga saga In Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar and Jómsvíkinga saga, accounts are given of the same memorial feast as in Fagrskinna.
Section 12 was a proviso to section 10 to allow the eldest son to inherit the whole estate (by primogeniture) if he was a Protestant, or converted within three months of his father's death.
Thousands of priests, monks, and nuns believed that taking the oath meant risking their salvation; yet they had to choose between that and the danger of arrest and punishment.
These finger rings are typically made of silver or gold, although bronze and lead have also been found, and can have settings for gems or coloured glass; in the case of the Wheatley Hill rings, the settings seem to have been added after the inscription as it partially obscures the runes.
On that anniversary, the Fête de la Fédération, Talleyrand and three hundred priests officiated at the "altar of the nation" erected on the Champ de Mars, wearing tricolor waistbands over their priestly vestments and calling down God's blessing upon the Revolution.
Since the 18th century, consecrators and episcopal lineage were extended to the Benedictine monks-bishops.
Because early Buddhism did not claim that all physical conditions, injury and illness included, are necessarily caused by past karma, it saw the physicians role to be a vital one.
Keep yourselves from evil to take the name of the Lord in vain, for I am the Lord your God, even the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob.
New bishops were forbidden from seeking confirmation from the Pope, but were allowed to write him to inform him of their position and reassert a unity of faith.
(C) Sappāyāsappāyaṁ jānissāmi, asappāyaṁ apanāmessāmi; sappāyaṁ upanāmessāmi, asappāyaṁ nāpanāmessāmi.
A third lot was determined upon, for the selection of a person who should watch a whole night in St.
The denial of priesthood to women has received criticism including by Ordain Women, an independent organization of current and former church members.
In 1566 and 1568, Pope Pius V rejected this class of institute, but they continued to exist and even increased in number.
As a Buddha's disciple, he ought to nurture a mind of compassion and filial piety, always devising expedient means to rescue and protect all beings.
In theory, the recognition as religious for simple vows had universal validity, but in practice, the Roman Curia considered it an exclusive privilege to the Society of Jesus.
He combined these ten with the three refuges and the three pure precepts into what is today called the sixteen precepts.
Chapter 5: Cases in which a person dedicates or vows something by mistake; Nazarites who had made their vows before the destruction of the Temple, and, on coming to Jerusalem to offer their sacrifices, had learned that the Temple had been destroyed (§ 4); conditional Nazaritic vows (§§ 5-7).
At the same time, monks in Hindu monasteries and saddhus or individual ascetics, are usually expected to withdraw from saṃsāra ('the world'), and practice celibacy.
While the gestures remained unchanged, the church removed the explicit descriptions of the three methods of execution and replaced them with the phrase, "rather than do so, I would suffer my life to be taken." In April 1990, the LDS Church eliminated the oaths and the gestures from the endowment.
A perpetually professed religious who wishes to renounce his or her goods either partially or totally according to the norm of proper law and with the permission of the supreme moderator is to do the same.
Alongside the trial of Louis XVI, in which many red priests participated, they were crucial in the radicalization of the Parisian people.
Government In Iran, women are required to wear hijabs as part of that society's efforts to enforce chastity.
Drafting of Grievance Lists (Cahiers de doléances) Priests played a central role in drafting cahiers de doléances in their parishes because they were often the only ones who could read and write well, and they managed parish registers (baptisms, marriages, burials).
Alexander Berzin (including commentary according to Tibetan Gelug Tradition) The Ethical Discipline of Bodhisattvas, by Geshe Sonam Rinchen (Tibetan Gelug Tradition) Nine Considerations and Criteria for Benefiting Beings
Legacy The expression could be used in other situations, such as during the Russian Revolution of 1905, supported by a portion of the clergy of the Russian Orthodox Church.
See also Germanic boar helmet Gullinbursti - Boar owned by Freyr Hildisvíni - Boar associated with Freyja Sæhrímnir - Boar killed and eaten each night in Valhöll References Sources Eduard Sievers.
It includes strict abstinence from sexual relations before marriage and complete fidelity and loyalty to one's spouse after marriage.
I solemnly declare and affirm that I shall hereafter lead my life according to the principles and teachings of the Buddha and his Dhamma.
While some of them left the clergy, often in connection with the criticism of clerical celibacy, a small minority engaged in actions of dechristianization.
The thirteen saṅghādisesas for bhikkus are: Discharge of semen or getting someone to discharge your semen, except while dreaming.
Moreover, Latter-day Saints believe that the priesthood authority was absent from the earth during the Great Apostasy, and that priesthood had to be restored through Joseph Smith.
It has been suggested that finger rings were uncommon in England during the 5th–6th centuries CE with both men and women, however their popularity increased in the 10th–11th centuries, when they became relatively more popular among women.
Soon afterwards, Pym proposed a Bill of Attainder on Strafford to execute him, which after some resistance was approved by the House of Commons and the House of Lords on 21 April 1641.
Some inscriptions are made in an extremely short formula, including only the vower's name and the word ndr (as a noun – "the vow of") or mtnt ("the gift of").
If a monk breaks any one of the rules he is automatically "defeated" in the holy life and falls from monkhood immediately.
Our deputies will be our spokespeople and will obtain, for the unfortunate, relief from all burdens.
In October 1790, the National Convention banned priests, monks, nuns, and any who had previously occupied such positions from teaching in schools, and many members of the convention began calling for a “religion of patriotism” to supplant Catholic Christianity entirely.
Thus, one can find demands similar to those of the Third Estate in their cahiers de doléances, as in the case of Forcalquier:Consideration should be given in the distribution of benefits and other ecclesiastical graces, based on service and merit rather than birth.
Aquinas, in support of his view, cited the fact that these two vows alone were considered to make the celebration of marriage invalid.
At that time the doctor probably performed all the functions in the sick room, including that of nursing patients.
Rabbi Joseph Telushkin wrote that the commandment is much more than a prohibition against casual interjections using God's name.
With regard to abortion, Buddhist countries take the middle ground, by condemning though not prohibiting it fully.
Some Anglo-Catholic priestly orders require their members to remain celibate, as do monastic orders of all religiously professed brothers and sisters.
Epiphanius Panarion 29.4) believed he had, and the vow of a nazirite would explain the asceticism Eusebius of Caesarea ascribed to James, a claim that gave James the title "James the Just".
In Mormonism, a penalty is a specified punishment for breaking an oath of secrecy after receiving the Nauvoo endowment ceremony.
All priesthood holders have the same priesthood authority; however, the authority to exercise certain powers of the priesthood are divided according to priesthood office.
Latter-day Saints believe that ancient prophets and apostles conferred the priesthood directly upon Smith and other early members of the movement.
This formula opens with the dedication to the god or gods (for example: lrbt ltnt pn bʿl wlʾdn lbʿl ḥmn = "To the lady - to Tinnit the face of Baal, and to the lord - to Baal Hammon").
If instead, he displays his own virtues and conceals the good points of others, thus causing them to suffer slander, he commits a Parajika offense.
The weights of intact arm and neck rings are always multiples of mercantile units, further supporting their usage as a form of wearable currency.
While sent as a representative on a mission during the Reign of Terror to suppress disturbances, Jean Bassal was noted for his humanity.
Aquinas held that the only vows that could be considered solemn were those made by receiving the holy orders as a member of the Catholic Hierarchy, or by the religious profession of the rule as a member of a Catholic religious order.
These vows provides the theoretical foundation for the Pure Land Buddhist soteriology and serves as a practical guide for adherents aspiring to be born into the Pure Land, where one can easily and rapidly attain Buddhahood.
The latter case forbids the object's benefit to the person making the neder, and obligates him to bring it to its new "owner." Thus the thing common to any neder is that it applies to the object, not the person.
Bishoprics were realigned to correspond with the eighty-three departments France had been divided into, and any additional bishoprics were abolished.
Silesia (1422): the Jew would stand on a three-legged stool and have to pay a fine each time he fell, finally losing his case if he fell four times.
Bibliography External links One version of the Diploma of Ramiro I Archived 2014-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
Aftermath Following the failure of the 1641 Protestation, the Long Parliament tried two more times to organize an oath of allegiance to King Charles and the Church of England, but they saw the same fate as its predecessor.
Hrōðgār upholds his responsibility as a king with both deeds and actions, sharing rings during feasts in Heorot.
Premise The Day of Atonement is one on which American black men swear to refrain from crime, drug addiction, and family abuse.
Renunciation of the right to own property is now a matter for the constitutions of the religious institute in question and is associated not with the solemnity of the vows but with their perpetuity.
Catholic gavelkind cemented a tradition of farm subdivision, which persisted beyond the act's repeal and contributed to the Great Famine of the 1840s.
Having crossed over, may I lead others across; comforted, may I comfort others; emancipated, may I emancipate others.
The prayer to which endowed members obligated themselves took place in at least some cases as part of the prayer circle ceremony, which was also part of the endowment but was often performed separately.
Before leaving Kerala, on 1 February 1663 Sebastiani consecrated Palliveettil Chandy as the Metran of the Thomas Christians who adhered to the Church of Rome.
However, in some parts of China, such as Dunhuang, considerable evidence has been found of alcohol consumption among both lay people and monastics.
Avenger of two free peoples, I had only one regret, that the same blow could not strike the head of all tyrants.Finally, there were Father François-Toussaint Villers, deputy from Loire-Inférieure, and Father Claude-Alexandre Ysabeau, deputy from Indre-et-Loire.
Overview The Pratimokṣa belongs to the Vinaya of the Buddhist doctrine and is seen as the very basis of Buddhism.
A declaration of faith is a phrase that is said by a member of any religion to show either to themselves, their God or other members of the religion their belief and faith in the religion.
This practice can still be found in contemporary Theravadin temples, especially during the occasion when a non-Buddhist converts to Buddhism or when one is observing the Eight Precepts on an uposatha day.
However, many parish priests and other ‘low clergy’ sided with the Third Estate, representing their own class and the class of their flocks.
Rings held a prominent position in early Germanic cultures, appearing both in archaeology throughout areas settled by Germanic peoples, and in textual sources discussing their practices and beliefs.
Several modern teachers such as Thich Nhat Hanh and Sulak Sivaraksa have written about the five precepts in a wider scope, with regard to social and institutional relations.
The Conflict between the Estates-General and the King (May 5 - July 9, 1789) The clergy deputies convened at the Estates-General, with 114 out of 133 advocating for voting by head and the clergy's alignment with the Third Estate, as proposed by Abbé Sieyès, representing slightly less than half.
(2013), Princeton Dictionary of Buddhism (PDF), Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0-691-15786-3, archived (PDF) from the original on 12 June 2018 Encyclopædia Britannica (2007).
Against the identifications of the phrase as a remnant of pagan culture, Ó hUiginn has argued that the phrase "has every appearance of being a contrived learned phrase", an innovation in the early Irish epics dating to the Christian period rather than "an inherited pre-Christian archaism".
Both factions could face persecution, as communities with strong revolutionary sentiments would beat, stone, or even kill non-juring priests, while in more religiously traditional communities juring priests could face similar assaults.
But following the death of Palliveettil Chandy, in 1687, the church was again fallen under the leadership of foreign missionaries for a long time and had to face challenges to their eastern, Syrian and indigenous heritage and rite.
The chapter closes with a description of consequences of breaking the precepts and the obligations that one must take on after receiving the precepts.
Oath The treatment of Ahatalla, shocked the Thomas Christian community, and their wounded feelings effervesced into a mass upsurge that heralded the breaking off from the Padroado of the Portuguese Crown and the Jesuits.
It further records the practice at a battle which took place on Easter 1244 in which a chieftain vowed to never capture a man in a church.
Incorporation into the Nauvoo endowment The oath of vengeance is understood by some modern historians to have been added to the Nauvoo endowment under the direction of Brigham Young by 1845 in the Nauvoo Temple, soon after the 1844 death of Joseph Smith.
The oath-swearing practice varied significantly, sometimes involving ritualised drinking or placing hands on a holy pig (referred to as a sónargöltr) that could later be sacrificed.
President Woodruff—I have already said that there is nothing of that kind in any part or phase of "Mormonism." I ought to know about that as I am one of the oldest members of the Church.
The oath was part of the LDS endowment Temple (Latter Day Saints) ceremony for over 80 years (1845–1927).
Tamata may be bought in shops selling Greek Orthodox religious items, and then hung with a ribbon on a pole or hooks near an icon or shrine of a saint, the act of which is usually accompanied with a prayer, and sometimes with the lighting of a votive candle.
They were often performed at Yule and other large social events, where they played a role in establishing and maintaining good relationships principally between members of the aristocratic warrior elite.
At the same time, there was enough support for a basically Catholic form of Christianity that some means had to be found to fund the Church in France.
Gowans argues that there is no moral theory in Buddhist ethics that covers all conceivable situations such as when two precepts may be in conflict, but is rather characterized by "a commitment to and nontheoretical grasp of the basic Buddhist moral values".
(1989), "Buddhist Politics and Their Revolutionary Origins in Thailand", International Political Science Review, 10 (2): 121–42, doi:10.1177/019251218901000203, S2CID 145572706 Mendis, N.K.G.
Moreover, the symbol appears on stelae from Samʼal, on which Baal Hammon is mentioned (like Kilamuwa stele).
Among the prominent members of this group were Abbé Sieyès, Abbé Grégoire, and Jacques Roux (1752-1794), who committed suicide in prison after being incarcerated on the orders of the Committee of Public Safety led by Robespierre.
It is being followed by the monks of the Theravada lineage (Thailand, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Cambodia and Laos).
Upāsakāśīla sūtra precepts The Sutra of the Ethics of a Lay Follower (Upāsakāśīla sūtra, Chinese: Youposai wu jie weiyi jing 優婆塞五戒 威儀經, Taisho no.
These were two of the nine juridical consequences (apart from spiritual effects) of the difference between solemn and simple vows.
bodhisattva-śīla or bodhisattva-saṃvāra, traditional Chinese: 菩薩戒; ; pinyin: Púsà Jiè, Japanese: 菩薩戒, romanized: bosatsukai; Wylie: byang chub sems dpa’i sdom pa) are a set of ethical trainings (śīla) used in Mahāyāna Buddhism to advance a practitioner along the path to becoming a bodhisattva.
In 1889, several members of the LDS Church that had emigrated from other countries applied for citizenship to the United States.
In these cases, the ties to the order the new bishop had are dissolved as if the bishop had never been a member; hence, such a person as Pope Francis, for example, had no formal ties to his old order for years.
The ring Draupnir is told in Skáldskaparmál to have been forged by the dwarfs Brokkr and Sindri, to drip eight equally heavy rings every eight nights.
In the courtyard of the temple's workshop, a clay mask with no beard or mustache was found, similar to the Punic masks.
Some of the inscriptions describe the stele of the vowed object as a gift, mostly in the version ʾš ytn ("which gave", as opposed to ʾš ndr) or with mtnt ("gift"), and some mix both the gift and the vow versions.
The final step was for the sheriffs and Judges of Peace to read it in Church and have all present sign it, which should be all of the population as they were obligated to go to church every Sunday under penalty of fine.
According to Gregory of Tours, Namatius a 5th-century bishop of Clermont was married and his wife was involved in the construction of St Stephen's church in Clermont.
As recorded in the Edicts of Aśoka, there was a custom that he had established not to kill animals on the uposatha days, which indicates that by this time observance of Buddhist uposatha had become a state institution in India.
These "vows of renunciation" are then followed by the profession of faith in Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
Sir Toby Butler, the former Solicitor General for Ireland, a Roman Catholic, made a celebrated speech at the bar of the Commons denouncing the act as being "against the laws of God and man...
Section 13 mandated that inheritance from a Protestant would according to common law, that is primogeniture.
These consist of injuring a Buddha, killing an arahant, killing one's father or mother, and causing the monastic community to have a schism.
Explanation Of the following articles, the first five are based closely on a discourse in which the Buddha lays down the attitudes and skills which would make "one who would wait on the sick qualified to nurse the sick.".
This practice was contemplated by the canonical law since the Middle Age, as it is testified by the later life of Peter Cellensis.
Lutheranism The theology of the body of the Lutheran Churches emphasizes the role of the Holy Spirit, who sanctified the bodies of Christians to be God's temple.
Koch proposed that the formula, alongside the Welsh oath tyghaf tyghet ('I swear a destiny on you') and a Gaulish phrase from the Chamalières tablet, originated as a "taboo deformation" of an oath sworn to Lugus (a god whose name, he argues, derives from a Celtic word for oath).
A woman known only as "Mrs G.H.R." attended an endowment ceremony in September 1879 in Salt Lake City, Utah Territory.
Such formulae are common in early Irish literature, and especially in the heroic sagas, where they are sworn for emphasis when a character declares they will perform some feat.
But the word also refers to the virtue and morality which lies at the foundation of the spiritual path to enlightenment, which is the first of the three forms of training on the path.
(The canons stipulate that they must also see to their wives' maintenance, for example Canon 12 of the Quinisext Council.) Typically, the wife of such a man will take up the monastic life herself, though this also is not required.
Gabriel Turville-Petre suggested that names for Freyr and his sister Freyja which equate them with a boar and a sow respectively implied that consumption of the sacrificed boar was believed to be consumption of the god's flesh and absorption of his power.
Distinction from simple vows Any vow in Catholic religious life other than a solemn vow is a simple vow.
The clergy split into juring priests (those who took the oath) and non-juring or refractory priests (those who refused).
(F) From time to time I will be able to instruct, inspire, enthuse, and cheer the sick with the Teaching.
The Jewish advocate Isaac Adolphe Crémieux won great fame by effecting the abolition of the oath through a case brought before the court of Nîmes in 1827.
The attack on the clergy was potentially the tipping point that eventually led to the King's doomed flight to Varennes in June 1791.
On 14 February 1493, in the Atlantic Ocean east of the Azores, they met with a storm that threatened to capsize the two caravels.
The Order of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mercy requires that its members take a fourth vow to die for another who is in danger of losing their faith.
Some focus on interpersonal relations, encouraging compassion and altruism, while others address broader responsibilities, such as the prohibition against destroying cities.
Other fundamentalist Mormon denominations continue to have the penalties as part of their temple oaths.
For women, those with simple vows were simply "sisters", with the term "nun" reserved in canon law for those who belonged to an institute of solemn vows, even if in some localities they were allowed to take simple vows instead.
Keown, Damien (2004), A Dictionary of Buddhism, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-157917-2 Keyes, C.F.
Some were replaced with less onerous restrictions; for example, the maximum lease for Catholic tenants was increased from 31 years to 999 years.
The term "prophets" wasn't explicitly clarified in reported wording of the oath, but many sources have reported it referred to the brothers Joseph and Hyrum Smith, who were killed by a mob the year before Smith's primary successor, Brigham Young, added the oath.
Gavai and Sadanand Fulzele, the secretary of the organization, have carved these 22 vows on a wide marble stone at the Deekshabhoomi ground and placed the pillar at the first sight of the stupa.
As a unique exception to this traditional dichotomy, the Benedictine abbots could be consecrated bishops by an analogue apostolic authority (like another bishop, an archbishop, or the pope).
Next, the monastic asks the disciple to follow additional habits to prevent breaking the precepts, to discourage others from breaking them, and to avoid excessive attachment to the five skandhas.
Richards revised the ceremony to eliminate the oath of vengeance, and the revision was formally implemented in 1927.
It seemed that the red priests were strongly opposed to religious intolerance, particularly directed towards Jews or Protestants.
The public profession of the evangelical counsels (or counsels of perfection), confirmed by vow or other sacred bond, is a requirement of Canon Law.
They make a public profession of the evangelical counsels of chastity, poverty, and obedience, confirmed by a vow or other sacred bond, regulated by canon law but live consecrated lives in the world (i.e.
In the Catholic Church, by joining the consecrated life, one does not become a member of the hierarchy but becomes a member of a state of life which is neither clerical nor lay, the consecrated state.
Outside Carthage, Phoenician votive inscription were also found in Hadrumetum (Hadrumetum Punic inscriptions), Cirta (Cirta steles), Malta (Cippi of Melqart), San Nicolò Gerrei (Pauli Gerrei trilingual inscription), Sulci, Karaly, in Phoenicia proper, and in Hammon.
Along these lines, Joseph Vendryes argued that the god behind this oath was the Celtic god Teutates, and Calvert Watkins that the oath had roots in Proto-Indo-European.
Teske, "Votive Offerings and the Belief System of Greek-Philadelphians", Western Folklore 44:3, Healing, Magic, and Religion (July 1985), pp.
Other scholars, as well as Buddhist writers and human rights advocates, have drawn similar comparisons.
References External links The Third Commandment in Masoretic Hebrew, Septuagint Greek and several English versions.
The gesture was made by drawing the thumb swiftly across the stomach until the thumb was just above the right hip and the hand and arm were quickly dropped to the side of the participant's body.
Since celibacy is seen as a consequence of the obligation of continence, it implies abstinence from sexual relationships.
During this time, it was particularly Buddhist teachers who promoted abstinence from alcohol (the fifth precept), since Daoism and other thought systems emphasized moderation rather than full abstinence.
Upāsakas and upāsikās wear long sleeved black or brown robes called haiqing (海青), symbolic of their refuge in the Triple Jewel.
Kimball, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles of the LDS Church, described the oath of vengeance in his diary on December 21, 1845.
The principal manuscripts for the saga vary considerably with the account in manuscript H as follows: Here, the ritual is dedicated to only Freyr, while in the U manuscript it is also to Freyja though this is typically amended to Freyr.
They are forms of restraint formulated in negative terms, but are also accompanied by virtues and positive behaviors, which are cultivated through the practice of the precepts.
If the bhikku confesses only after interrogation, the verdict should be "acting in accordance with the accused's further misconduct".
While originally containing heathen religious components such as prayers and worship of gods such as Freyr and Thor, the practice continued in an altered manner after the Christianisation of Scandinavia.
Ineligible groups of members Some members of the church were historically or are currently ineligible for receiving the priesthood.
Protestation Reacting to scares and anxiety that the Protestant Reformation was in danger of being replaced, especially due to the Catholic influence around King Charles I, a ten-man committee of the House of Commons was selected to draft a national declaration.
Tauris, ISBN 978-0-85773-656-7 Shah, Natubhai (2004) [First published in 1998], Jainism: The World of Conquerors, vol.
In Judaism, a neder (Hebrew pronunciation: [neˈdeːʁ], plural nedarim Hebrew pronunciation: [neˌdaˈʁiːm]) is a kind of vow or oath.
Upāsaka and Upāsikā, genyen) — 5 vows The lay pratimokṣa consists of five vows that are also known as the Five Śīlas: To refrain from killing.
In the Bodhisattvacaryāvatāra, the actual taking of the vow is preceded by various other preparatory practices and prayers, particularly what is called the Seven Branch Practice (Tib.
One of the first commandments listed by Maimonides in the Mishneh Torah is the responsibility to sanctify God's name.
See also Parinamana References Further reading Blo-gros-mthaʼ-yas, Koṅ-sprul; Taye, Lodro; Rinpoche, Bokar (2003).
Outside of those in a state of consecrated life, in Evangelical Lutheranism, marriage vows are a form of solemn vows that a husband and wife make to one another.
The most common symbols are Sign of Tinnit, a crescent with a disc, a hand or two spread up, and Caduceus.
However, in the writing of some Abhidharma commentators, consumption was condemned depending on the intention with which alcohol was consumed.
Unrighteous dominion is considered a sin, for which repentance (and in some cases restitution) is required.
Jesus says that he is the Messiah, and makes parallels between himself and the "Son of Man" referred to by the prophet Daniel, which evokes an emphatic response that he has blasphemed (broken the commandment) and deserves death.
The prātimokṣa tells also how to purify faults, how to solve conflicts, and deal with various situations which can happen in the sangha.
The approved bill was engrossed on 20 January, presented in the Commons on 14 February, sent to the Irish House of Lords on 25 February, and given royal assent on 4 March.
Ann Eliza Young, former wife of LDS Church president Brigham Young, described, in her autobiography, her experience taking the oath of vengeance.
The Second Lateran Council is thus often cited as having for the first time introduced a general law of celibacy, requiring ordination only of unmarried men.
These appellations have been somewhat controversial, though, as both parties considered themselves the true heirs to the Saint Thomas tradition, and saw the other party as schismatic.
The prayer of consecration that constitutes such virgins "sacred persons" inserts them into the Ordo Virginum and likewise places them in the consecrated life in the Catholic Church.
Symbolism The stelae themselves were mostly artistic and stylized, and various decorations and religious symbols are engraved on them, often related to the content of the inscriptions.
According to the Buddha in this sutra, "just as all forms are contained in space, so likewise the bodhisattva vows, which are as numerous as the sands of the Ganges River, are all contained in these three great vows".
References External links An Act to prevent the further Growth of Popery from Statutes Passed in the Parliaments Held in Ireland
bosatsugan) taken by some Mahāyāna Buddhists to achieve full buddhahood for the sake of all sentient beings.
The oath was required of "all clergy, pastors, confessors, preachers, religious superiors, and professors in philosophical-theological seminaries" of the Catholic Church.
The table below lists these other priesthood leadership callings and the table below it shows how the various callings are organized within the hierarchy of the church.
Even in congregations with solemn vows, some members with perpetual vows may have taken them simply rather than solemnly.
The Gospel of John relates an incident where a group attempts to stone Jesus after he speaks God's name.
At this point of time, the Portuguese missionaries attempted reconciliation with Saint Thomas Christians but were not successful.
For example, a woman who is unable to have children might make a neder to give a certain amount of charity if she is blessed with children.
Together, this has led to the proposal that the ring represents the totemic connection between the Swedes and boar.
Pratimokṣa texts may also circulate in separate pratimokṣa sūtras, which are extracts from their respective vinayas.
Thus, by 1663, 84 of the 116 churches in existence were in favor of Sebastiani, leaving only 32 churches in favor of Thoma I.
The oath consists of a preamble followed by seven articles, each of them derived from four passages from the Pāḷi Canon.
Monks and nuns are not considered "ordained" by the Bodhisattva Precepts, but rather by the "Four Part Vinaya", while the Bodhisattva Precepts served to strengthen the Mahayana ideals.
Consecrated virgins living in the world do not make religious vows, but express by a public so-called sanctum propositum ("holy purpose") to follow Christ more closely.
Requesting sexual favors from a woman, or telling her that she would benefit spiritually from having sex with the monk.
The battle had resulted from his refusal to pay the Tribute of 100 Damsels to the Emirate of Córdoba.
In the Chinese tradition, both upāsakas and upāsikās are permitted to wear robes for temple ceremonies and retreats, as well as home practice.
(The previous five proscriptive vows [#13–17] are from the Five Precepts.) I shall endeavour to follow the Noble Eightfold Path and practice compassion and loving-kindness in everyday life.
It reserved the name "religious order" for institutes in which the vows were solemn, and used the term "religious congregation" for those with simple vows.
After the Christianisation of the Germanic peoples, the practice retained some importance during the medieval period, where rings were hung on church doors, such as the Forsa Ring from Hälsingland in Sweden that was at a church adjacent to an old thing mound.
A professed religious who has renounced his or her goods fully due to the nature of the institute loses the capacity of acquiring and possessing and therefore invalidly places acts contrary to the vow of poverty.
Pure Land writers like Tanluan and Daochuo expound on this idea, seeing the power of Amitabha’s vows as the active force that enables practitioners to transcend karmic obstacles and attain birth in the Pure Land.
Unlike the restoration of the Aaronic priesthood, Smith never provided a date for the restoration of the Melchizedek priesthood, and never clearly indicated how this authority was conferred.
Some were vehemently ethically opposed, such as Maximilien Robespierre, who argued that atheism was a dangerous product of aristocratic decadence, and believed that a moral society should at least acknowledge the provenance of a Supreme Being.
Sekhiyavatta There are seventy-five sekhiya or rules of training, which are mainly about the deportment of a monk.
The Oath Against Modernism was a formal oath instituted by Pope Pius X in his motu proprio Sacrorum antistitum on September 1, 1910.
The practitioner's vow to be born in the Pure Land thus serves as an anchor, allowing the practitioner’s mind to remain steadfast and directed toward liberation amidst the distractions and hardships of samsara.
Father Romain Pichonnier is a striking example of a red priest; from the early days of 1789, he advocated for the election of priests by the faithful and bishops by the priests.
The epithet pn bʿl ("the face of Baal") is reflected on Punic masks of faces from Carthage, featuring the symbol of Baal Hammon on them, literally the "face of Baal" – pn bʿl.
Mahayana/Vajrayana traditions In both the Chinese Chan and Japanese Zen traditions, a ceremony of taking refuge in the Triple Gem as well as the receiving of the precepts (受戒 Chinese: shoujie; Japanese: jukai) is a type of lay ordination.
For this purpose as many peas were selected as there were persons on board, one of them was marked with a cross, and the whole shaken together in a cap.
But there does exist pardon, forgiveness, and atonement." The individual then concludes with a brief statement: "I cancel from this time onward all vows and all oaths ...
After publication of the 1917 Code, many institutes with simple vows appealed to the Holy See for permission to make solemn vows.
Background In the centuries preceding the French Revolution, the Church had functioned as an autonomous entity within France.
Also, sectors of France that had long-standing conflict with Protestant communities refused to support anything that threatened Catholic doctrine.
Of the ten instructive discourses contained in the Citta Saṃyutta, three of the discourses deal with the questions posed by Citta to the bhikkhus, three of them are queries put to Citta by the bhikkhus, and four refer to personal events.
Catholic and Orthodox Christians do not believe that such a complete apostasy ever took place when defending the validity of their priesthoods, and these churches do not recognize the priesthood exercised by Latter-day Saints.
References Citations Sources Dundas, Paul (2002) [1992], The Jains (Second ed.), London and New York: Routledge, ISBN 978-0-415-26605-5 Jain, Vijay K.
Some other writers state that Ahatallah was not killed in 1653 and he was sent as a prisoner to Lisbon where he died a natural death in the prison.
Continued practice by Mormon fundamentalists Some groups within the Mormon fundamentalist movement continue to practice the endowment without modification.
Acknowledging that the term "Red Priests" is an anachronism, some historians, including Annie Geffroy, James C.
Provisions Section 1 defined as praemunire the encouragement or act of apostasy from Protestantism to Catholicism.
Social patterns and practices calculated to inflame sexual desire are frowned upon by Islam, such incitements to immorality including permissive ideologies, titillating works of art, and the failure to inculcate sound moral principles in the young.
The hardworking day laborer, for whom work is not sufficient, and the poor widow burdened with children have no resources other than the charity of their pastors.
bSlabs-btus), compiled in India by Śāntideva in the 8th century" including 18 primary and 48 secondary downfalls.
If the bhikku confesses to the exact allegations, the verdict should be "acting in accordance with what was admitted".
See also Jureur National Religious Affairs Administration References Sources Jervis, William Henley (1882).
Enactment Two separate bills "to prevent the further Growth of Popery" were introduced in the parliamentary session 1703–1704.
In times of need Some Jews in times of desperation have made nedarim in hopes that God will answer their prayers in exchange for making a commitment.
May I set rolling the wheel of dharma that has not its equal, and is honoured and revered of devas and men." The Mahāvastu depicts Shakyamuni taking other vows under other past Buddhas.
The second set of vows is original to Zhiyi's corpus and states: Sentient beings, limitless in number, I vow to ferry over.
Both were successfully rebuffed by the Church, whose infrastructure, organization, man-power, and influence were still powerful in France.
Ceremony and symbolism Tamata may be offered to an icon or shrine of a saint as a reminder of a petitioner's particular need, or in gratitude for a prayer answered.
Inheritance in traditional Irish law used gavelkind, whereby an estate was divided equally among a dead man's sons.
Depictions and discussion Numerous individuals and works have referenced the temple penalties and their manner of execution.
Vallance,E., Revolutionary England and the National Covenant: State Oaths, Protestantism, and the Political Nation, 1553–1682.
Along with the Shema and Amidah, it is one of the most important and central prayers of Jewish liturgy.
One example cited by historians is in March 1857 when an elderly church member of high standing William R.
Religious congregations Other religious institutes have adopted the practice of taking a fourth vow: The Religious Sisters of Mercy take a fourth vow of service to the poor, sick, and ignorant.
Koch suggesting that it originated as a taboo deformation (i.e., modification of a phrase to avoid a taboo word).
His proposal is that a Christian author attempted to contrive an archaic pagan oath (suitable to the pagan background of the Old Irish epics) out of the Christian formula toing do dia ('I swear to god').
Fuengfusakul, Apinya (1 January 1993), "Empire of Crystal and Utopian Commune: Two Types of Contemporary Theravada Reform in Thailand", Sojourn, 8 (1): 153–83, JSTOR 41035731 Harvey, Peter (1990).
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed.
In 6th-century Korea, the eight precepts came to be associated with worship of Maitreya, due to the work of Hyeryang, a Korean monk that wrote a tract about these matters.
If the child was an eldest son, up to one-third of the parent's property could be transferred to him, the parent retained only a life interest.
During the 20th century, the largest Mormon denomination, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), gradually softened the graphic nature of their penalties, and in 1990, removed them altogether from its version of the ceremony.
Oaths Related to the concept of swearing allegiance to a ruler in return for a ring, oaths were also sworn upon rings without an exchange of ownership.
[...] Thus remains the religion of man or Christianity, not the one of today, but that of the Gospel, which is entirely different.
Then, letters were sent from the speaker of the House of Commons to sheriffs of each Parish communicating them about the decision and for them to also swear into it, as well as the Judges of Peace.
Religious orders Camillians The Camillians take a fourth vow of service to the sick, even in danger of death.
According to Smith's youngest brother William Smith the wording of the oath taken in the Nauvoo temple was in part, "You do solemnly swear ...
In February 2019, the Catholic Church acknowledged that the church's celibacy policy has not always been enforced and that at some point in history, the Vatican enacted secret rules to protect priests who violated their vows of celibacy.
Nevertheless, before Pope Leo XIII's reforms in the 19th century, these simple vows constituted them religious in the true and proper sense of the word, with the consequent privileges and exemption of regulars, including the vows being a diriment impediment to matrimony, etc.
And so help you the five books of Moses that you may nevermore enjoy a bite without soiling yourself all over as did the King of Babylon.
A brown kasaya called a manyi (缦衣) worn outside the black robes is symbolic of their upholding of the precepts.
Traditionally we now recite the last nine verses of the chapter as a conclusion to taking the vow.In Tibetan Buddhism there are two lineages of the bodhisattva vow, which are linked to two sets of Bodhisattva precepts or moral rules.
Recitation of Amitabha’s name (nianfo) and trust in his vow power are thus framed as the primary means of liberation, transforming Pure Land Buddhism into a profoundly accessible practice.
The value of invoking punishment from God was based on the belief that God cannot be deceived or evaded.
Therefore: (A) I will use my skill to restore the health of all beings with sympathy, compassion and heedfulness.
External links Brahma Net Sutra Twenty Verses on the Bodhisattva Vow by Chandragomin The Actions for Training from Pledged Bodhichitta, Root Bodhisattva Vows and the Secondary Bodhisattva Vows by Dr.
I renounce Hinduism which is harmful to humanity and impedes the advancement and development of humanity, and adopt Buddhism as my religion.
This profession of faith cannot have been presented to the Exarch of Ravenna at any time after the papacy revolted – soon after 727 (see Eutychius (exarch)) – against the Emperor.
By attaining mastery over one's passions, reason, will, and desire can harmoniously work together to do what is good.
There are ninety-two pacittiya; these are minor violations which do not entail expulsion or any probationary periods.
Grant appointed a committee charged with revising the endowment ceremony which was done under the direction of apostle George F.
The Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum includes a formula of profession of faith that a newly elected Pope sent to the representative at Ravenna of the Emperor of Constantinople soon after the Third Council of Constantinople (680–681), which is referred to in the text as held "recently".
Despite the involvement of the Parisian region, many dissenting priests from rural or small to medium-sized towns came from all over France.
Some other complete Vinaya texts are preserved in the Chinese Buddhist canon (see: Taishō Tripiṭaka), and these include: Mahīśāsaka Vinaya (T.
References External links Jewish Encyclopedia by Gotthard Deutsch This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; et al., eds.
Similar acts were passed by the British parliament, and after the union the UK parliament continued the practice.
The interest was further fostered by campaigns emphasizing Buddhist religious practice on traditional observance days.
A good deal is being made of a form of prayer based upon two verses in the sixth chapter of the Revelations of St.
This was received with outrage by many clergy, as it not only completely up-ended the traditional appointment system of the Church, but would furthermore allow Protestants, Jews, and atheists to directly influence Church matters.
If the practitioner is prepared, the monk asks the disciple to practice all the advice for six months while remaining under the monk's regular observation.
Buddhist tradition therefore requires lay people to be chaste on observance days, which is similar to the historical Indian tradition of being chaste on parvan days.
Owing, in part, to abuses of this system (especially for patronage), there was enormous resentment of the Church, taking the various forms of atheism, anticlericalism, and anti-Catholicism.
Similarly, the economic value of rings is attested on the Prose Edda account of Fróði's Peace when a golden ring is lain down on Jelling heath without being stolen, as a demonstration of the lack of law-breaking in the period.
It can have no such application, as the Endowments were given long before the death of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and have not been changed.
In Harðar saga, Hróarr steps on a log at Yule before making a vow to break into the grave mound of the viking Sóti, followed by Hǫrðr vowing to accompany him and a third vowing to follow Hǫrðr, forming a formula also seen in Hrólfs saga kraka.
praṇidhāna-vaśa) which in Pure Land Buddhism is considered to be the main condition for birth in the Pure Land.
48 CE) once placed herself under a Nazirite vow for seven years, on condition that her son returned home from war safely.
Holding distorted views (which are contrary to the teaching of Buddha, such as denying the existence of the Three Jewels or the law of cause and effect etc.) Destroying towns, villages, cities or large areas by means such as fire, bombs, pollution or black magic.
Buddhists tend to take "both sides" on the pro-life–pro-choice debate, being against the taking of life of a fetus in principle, but also believing in compassion toward mothers.
For instance, while under the 1917 Code solemn vows rendered a subsequent marriage invalid, but simple vows only made the marriage illicit, the current Code of Canon Law states that "those bound by a public perpetual vow of chastity in a religious institute invalidly attempt marriage".
This was vowed to James before the battle by Ramiro I of Asturias in Calahorra, offering Saint James part of the booty taken from the Moors along with the first fruits and crops from each year's harvest as an ex voto.
In 1866, Chancery Commissioners reported that the Law of Judgments was much more complicated in Ireland than in England, and traced the difference back to the steps introduced in Ireland to enforce the 1704 act and ensure property was not being secretly transferred from Protestants to Catholics.
Not giving things to the Three Jewels that others have given you to give to them, or accepting property stolen from the Three Jewels.
According to tradition, while he was serving as Vizier to the Caliph, he was falsely accused of treachery and his hand was cut off.
Gesta Danorum also describes a ring owned by Baldr that also brought wealth, and may reflect a shared tradition.
For example, Title IV, Article I states, "The law requiring the residence of ecclesiastics in the districts under their charge shall be strictly observed.
The most important source for the three kinds of precepts is the Bodhisattvabhūmi, which explains these as: Restraining precepts (saṃvaraśīla): These are the foundational rules of discipline derived from the prātimokṣa, which aim to prevent unwholesome actions.
They supported Gallicanism, advocating for the autonomy or even independence of the Catholic Church in France from the Pope.
On the other hand, Ruairí Ó hUiginn has argued that the oath was a scholarly Christian invention, contrived to suit the pagan background of the Old Irish sagas.
Another form is the wagesa, a short surplice in the form of a strip of brocade fabric worn around the neck, with the temple mon emblazoned on it.
The Portuguese started a Latin Church diocese in Goa (1534) and another at Cochin (1558), and sought to bring the Saint Thomas Christians under the jurisdiction of the Portuguese padroado and into the Latin Church of the Catholic Church.
Similar to other Abrahamic religions, Baháʼí teachings call for the restriction of sexual activity to that between a wife and husband in Baháʼí marriage, and discourage members from using pornography or engaging in sexually explicit recreational activities.
The monastic asks the disciple if he has paid respects to the six directions and if he has the relevant permissions.
During the French Revolution, the National Assembly abolished the traditional structure of the Catholic Church in France and reorganized it as an institution within the structure of the new French government through the Civil Constitution of the Clergy.
The main difference between these two lineages of the bodhisattva vow is that in the Cittamatra lineage the vow cannot be received by one who has not previously received the pratimokṣa vows.
The attendant who pushed the gurney which carried him stumbled and let out an oath using the name of the Lord.
In the Catholic Church In the Catholic Church, the vows of members of religious orders and congregations are regulated by canons 654–658 of the Code of Canon Law.
This becomes a recurring topos in later sagas, although we have only these two saga mentions attesting to the custom of making vows on the sacrificial animal.
On the basis of the Prātimokṣa there exist in Mahayana Buddhism two additional set of vows: The Bodhisattva vows and the Vajrayana vows.
The people of Moguer greeted them happily; Columbus and his crew headed promptly to the Santa Clara Monastery to light a taper and spend the night in vigil, in fulfilment of one of their vows.
González Gómez, Juan Miguel Archived 2009-12-29 at the Wayback Machine: El Voto Colombino, el Monasterio de Santa Clara y su influjo en Hispanoamérica.
The Pazhayakoor continued with the East Syriac traditions and stayed within the Catholic Church with Diophysite Faith.
In many medieval Chinese texts, the order of the last three items is different, with numbers 6 and 8 switched.
Today, to be consistent, I must pronounce death." The Montagnard Father Léonard Honoré Gay de Vernon, parish priest of Compreignac and deputy from Haute-Vienne, voted for the death of the king, against reprieve and against the appeal to the people.
An attempt has, I see, been made to connect this with avenging the death of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and to have reference to this nation.
The preamble contains two quotes from the Pali Canon, the first line of verse 204 of the Dhammapada, and from the Vinaya, where the Buddha, after having attended to a sick monk neglected by his fellows, instructed his monks to care for each other when they are sick.
Ceremonial dress Traditionally, in India, upāsakas wore white robes, representing a level of renunciation between lay people and monastics.
Philosopher Christopher Gowans disagrees that Buddhist ethics are deontological, arguing that virtue and consequences are also important in Buddhist ethics.
Parliament passed a bill on 3 May 1641 requiring those over the age of 18 to sign the Protestation, an oath of allegiance to King Charles I and the Church of England, as a way to reduce the tensions across the realm.
Another historian Juanita Brooks stated that violent enforcement of religious oaths was a "literal and terrible reality" advocated by Brigham Young "without compromise".
Mamluk Sultanate, 13th/14th century: the Jew would swear that was purposefully worded to be degrading and ludicrous and contained a detailed, self-imposed curse in which he renounced all that he held sacred should his witness prove false.
Interpretation and discussion Heitstrengingar took place at Yule and other sacrificial feasts, weddings, arvals, and banquets and often acted as a form of bragging and promising the performance of an often great feat.
Draupnir has been seen as the mythical counterpart to the temple ring and has been identified on Norwegian bracteates dating from the 5th–7th centuries CE, where it has been proposed to act as a symbol of Odin's power, and to have a role in legitimising the sacred right of kings to rule.
48), with the exception of section 25, which was made redundant by the coming into force in 1871 of the Irish Church Act 1869, and was repealed by the Statute Law Revision (Ireland) Act 1878.
In an effort to please Pope Pius VII, Napoleon agreed to subsidize the salaries of clerics in exchange for the legitimization of the state seizure of church property.
While friends, advisors, and even his wife had been strongly urging him to flee the country, Louis had resisted these suggestions.
(G) Sace gilānaṁ sappāyabhojanehi vā sappāyabhessajjehi vā sappāyūpaṭṭhānena vā na vuṭṭhāheyya, aham-pi kho tassa gilānassa anukampāya patirūpo upaṭṭhāko bhavissāmī ti.
Etymology In Old Norse, the term heitstrenging or heit-strenging ('the swearing of a solemn vow') is derived from the verb 'heit-strengja' ('to vow'), in turn formed from the joining of heit ('a solemn vow') and the verb strengja ('to string', 'to fasten').
High Holidays Traditionally, around the High Holidays, all nedarim are annulled in order to free all persons of the liability in the event they are not fulfilled.
Newborns of Buddhist parents are traditionally initiated by being brought on their first outing to a temple on a full-moon or festival day where they are presented to the Triple Gem.
Some scholars have interpreted this oath as a relic of Irish Celtic paganism, preserved in Irish literature.
History Of the three ships on Columbus's first voyage, the flagship, the Santa María, had been shipwrecked in Hispaniola on December 25, 1492, leaving only the Niña and Pinta to make the homeward voyage.
Honoring the six directions is a "means fulfilling one's reciprocal responsibilities in each of these relationships".
Outside of Scandinavia, continental sources describing oaths being sworn on church rings from the 9th to 14th centuries CE.
Zhiyi explains that these vows correspond to the Four Noble Truths and that these vows arise with the four truths as their basis.
Along similar lines, the Sunday Service of the Methodists, the first liturgical book of Methodism, contains the following baptismal vows: Question.
Tibetan literature, particularly the Sdom gsum texts, extensively explores the interrelationship and compatibility of these three sets of vows.
About 50% of the priests of the Catholic Church in France rallied to the Constitutional Church, exceeding 80% in 27 departments.
The three vows are: By the power of my earnest aspiration, may I bring peace to innumerable and unlimited living beings.
The Portuguese had established political and religious control over parts of India, seeking to enforce Latin Catholic practices upon the local Christian community, which followed its own traditions.
These vows demonstrate both the social movement aspect of Navayana Buddhism, and demonstrate its core deviation from earlier schools of Buddhism.
"Upasaka." Retrieved 2007-10-24 from "Encyclopædia Britannica Online" at https://web.archive.org/web/20060621163706/http://www.britannica.com/eb/article-9074383.
"The Penal Sign is given by putting the right hand to the left side of the bowels, the hand open with the thumb next to the belly and drawing it across the belly and letting it fall; this is done tolerably quick.
The Pratimokṣa (Sanskrit: प्रातिमोक्ष, romanized: prātimokṣa) is a list of rules (contained within the vinaya) governing the behaviour of Buddhist monastics (monks or bhikṣus and nuns or bhikṣuṇīs).
Inscriptions in similar formulas were found in Sidon, near Tyre, in Athens, Rhodes, Egypt, Kition and Idalion, as well as unstandard versions in Carthage.
However, the secular narrative literature of early medieval Ireland (and especially the prose sagas) is frequently set in a pagan, heroic past.
Many clergy who were previously supportive of the Revolution were driven into opposition, and thousands of clergy hid or fled the country entirely.
Gratitude Nedarim are sometimes made out of gratitude toward God for having been the beneficiary of some form of kindness from God's hand, such as a miracle.
The Mūlasarvāstivāda Vinaya is preserved in both the Tibetan Buddhist canon in the Kangyur, in a Chinese edition, and in an incomplete Sanskrit manuscript.
The disciple will then take refuge in the Triple Gem, and the monastic will then ensure the disciple is prepared to take on all (as opposed to only some) of the precepts.
Relation to other Mormon "blood" doctrines Symbolic penalties in the LDS Church temple ceremony, which were discontinued church-wide in 1990, depicted "throat-slitting and disemboweling gestures as signs that they [would] not reveal" the sacred things taught in the temple endowment ordinance.
These five vows are the following: Beings are innumerable; I vow to save them all (shu-jo-mu-hen-sei-guan-do).
Section 11 was a proviso to section 10 to allow provision for daughters from the estate before the residue was subdivided among the sons.
There were once significant technical differences between them in canon law, but these differences were suppressed by the current Code of Canon Law in 1983, although the nominal distinction is maintained.
At three different stages of the endowment, participants were asked to take an oath of secrecy regarding the ceremony.
After this, he and all the crew made a vow to go in procession, clothed in penitential garments, to the first church dedicated to Our Lady which they should meet with on arriving at land, and there pay their devotions.
The relationship with kings is also seen in the Swedish Svíagriss – an ancestral ring of the Ynglings whose name means "Sweden-piglet".
In the 16th century, Ignatius of Loyola obtained authorization for the members of the Society of Jesus to be divided into the professed with solemn vows and the coadjutors with dispensable simple vows.
Often members of the church who do not maintain the standards and people who are not members of the church are invited to participate in the quorum to enjoy the brotherhood and support, although they may not be given certain quorum responsibilities.
A person who lives a religious life according to vows they have made is called a votary or a votarist.
negative effects", specific research is lacking, and that it was intended more to prevent an increase in Catholic landholding than encourage further decrease: the Catholic share of land had already fallen from 60% before the 1641 Rebellion to 22% before the Williamite War to 14% in 1704.
The vow is reported as follows:When (the Bodhisattvas) have laid up an abundant store of merit, and have body and mind well developed they approach the beautiful Buddhas and turn their thoughts to enlightenment, (each vowing).
These penalties were first instituted by Joseph Smith in 1842, and further developed by Brigham Young after Smith's death.
Offices and quorums of the Aaronic priesthood Priesthood leadership callings In addition to the regular offices of the Aaronic or Melchizedek priesthood, there are other leadership callings within the priesthood.
If the deceased had no sons, the estate was likewise divided between his daughters, or the next closest kin.
If instead, he discusses the faults and misdeeds that occur within the assembly, he commits a Parajika offense.
Mary of Guadalupe and carry a wax taper of five pounds weight; he caused them all to take an oath that the one on whom the lot fell, should perform the pilgrimage.
By this resolution of mine, I a man of resolution, will attain omniscience, and save men and devas, cutting off the stream of transmigration, annihilating the three forms of existence, embarking in the ship of the Truth, I will carry across with me men and devas.
During the rally, Louis Farrakhan recited the following pledge and asked all men present to repeat after him and take the pledge.
Even a vow accepted by a legitimate superior in the name of the Church (the definition of a "public vow") is a simple vow if the Church has not granted it recognition as a solemn vow.
This created a schism within the French clergy, with those taking the oath known as juring priests, and those refusing the oath known as non-juring clergy or refractory clergy.
The seventh and final article requires the physician to minister to the patient even if all the signs indicate that he or she is not responding to the treatment and will probably die.
The vows are regarded as the individual's free response to a call by God to follow Jesus Christ more closely under the action of the Holy Spirit in a particular form of religious living.
Of the seven articles in the Vejjavatapada, the first highlights the importance of care (hita), kindness (dayā) and compassion (anukampā) in the healing process.
The fourth precept is compared by Keown with the "right not to be lied to"; the CIHR writes "the right of human dignity".
This nation or government has never been charged by the "Mormon" people with the assassination of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, as it is well known the murder was the act of a local mob disguised.
The prophet Amos condemned the Israelites for their failure to respect the nazirite vow: And I raised up some of your sons as prophets and some of your young men as nazirites...
The Path of the Householder: Buddhist Lay Discipline in the Pali Canon, Buddhist Studies Review 19 (1), 1-18 Buswell, Robert E.
The Liber Diurnus formula speaks of the Third Council of Constantinople as recently held and mentions by name the Pope and the Emperor involved in the Council.
There are exceptions: the Jesuits' first vows are perpetual, for instance, and the Sisters of Charity take only temporary but renewable vows.
Formally, one bill was vetoed and the other was returned to Dublin with amendments; a lack of surviving documentation makes it impossible to determine which of the two had which fate.
On multiple occasions, the state attempted to revoke the Church's tax-free status in order to tap into its significant financial resources, with official declarations calling for formal surveys of the Church's wealth and subsequent taxations being levied in 1749 and 1780.
On the other hand, in countries with little competition from other religions, such as Thailand, the ceremony has had little relation to the rite of becoming Buddhist, as many people are presumed Buddhist from birth.
From this, stemmed the first oath of allegiance to King Charles I and to the Protestant Reformation in the Church of England.
Some special cases may not permit initial or continuing ordination, such as children living with a same-sex couple.
Ethicist Pinit Ratanakul argues that the compassion which motivates upholding the precepts comes from an understanding that all living beings are equal and of a nature that they are 'not-self' (Pali: anattā).
However, with the establishment of Portuguese power in parts of India, the clergy of that empire, in particular members of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits), attempted to Latinise the Indian Christians.
Vows from Mahayana treatises Ten vows of the Dasabhumika-vibhāsā The Dasabhumika-vibhāsā (Shízhù pípōshā lùn, 十住毘婆沙論, Taisho no.
However, he was absent due to illness during the nominal vote, as was Father André Foussedoire, deputy from Loir-et-Cher, a Montagnard, and later a Cretois, who voted for death, saying: "I have always abhorred the shedding of blood, but reason and justice must guide me.
The fifth article recognizes that at times it might be necessary to deal with the loathsome aspects of the human body and that the physician should do this with detachment, both for his or her own mental balance and so as not to embarrass the patient.
Popes outside the 682–727 period would not have spoken of the 680–681 Council as recent, and it would be particularly ridiculous to suppose that Popes from two centuries before the Council knew anything whatever about that Council.
If instead, he lacks compassion and encourages others to engage in sexual relations promiscuously, including with animals and even their mothers, daughters, sisters, or other close relatives, he commits a Parajika offense.
Under the ancien regime, France was divided into three Estates, and the clergy occupied the First Estate, with the aristocracy comprising the Second Estate, and the commoners the Third Estate.
God has commanded that this sacred power be expressed only between a man and a woman who are legally married.
The text of the vow is "...I further promise a special obedience to the sovereign pontiff in regard to the missions, according to the same Apostolic Letters and the Constitutions." The same text is being used today, just as it was in the days of Saint Ignatius of Loyola.
The idea of abstaining from killing animal life has also led to a prohibition on professions that involve trade in flesh or living beings, but not to a full prohibition of all agriculture that involves cattle.
Charles saw this as an attack against the King, dissolving what became known as the Short Parliament within three weeks.
Joseph Thekkedath, another Church historian narrates that Vincent De Paul, who met Ahatallah at Paris, mentions him in the following words "There remains in this city a good old man of eighty years, a foreigner, who was lodging with the late monsignor Archbishop of Myra.
If not, may you become as leprous as Naaman and Gehazi, and may the calamity strike you that the Israelite people escaped as they journeyed forth from Egypt's land.
One of the new requirements placed upon all clergy was the necessity of an oath of loyalty to the State before all foreign influences such as the Pope.
Moreover, whatever accrues to the professed after renunciation belongs to the institute according to the norm of proper law.
In contrast, English common law used male primogeniture, with the eldest son receiving the entire estate.
It must not be abused by careless speech, false oaths, or words of hatred, reproach or defiance toward God, or used in magic.
Thus it is not proper for a monk to be alone with a woman, especially in screened or private places.
In Western Christian morality, chastity is placed opposite the deadly sin of lust, and is classified as one of seven virtues.
The Apostolic Constitution Sponsa Christi of 21 November 1950 made access to that permission easier for nuns (in the strict sense), though not for religious institutes dedicated to apostolic activity.
The penalties were similar to oaths made as part of a particular rite of Freemasonry practiced in western New York at the time the endowment was developed.
Having attained the wisdom of the True Dharma, for the sake of all living beings, may I explain it without wearying.
The vow is an expression of the strong attachment the Jesuits have for the Church, and their willingness to accept whatever service the Church asks (through the pope) if it is of a great apostolic need.
Artistic styles varied with region and time, with new styles arising through formation of mixed cultural groups, such as the development of Hiberno-Scandinavian forms through the Scandinavian settlement of Ireland.
By vowing to be reborn in the Pure Land, practitioners take refuge in Amitabha’s compassionate resolve, cultivating a sense of connection and focus in their spiritual journey.
A person who has honored these relationships and paid his respects to the six directions must then receive permission from his parents to accept the precepts.
The process involved making prayers to either Christian or heathen gods and honouring the previous ruler and has been proposed to have had a central role in both reassuring the king's followers and legitimising his power.
A number of prātimokṣa codes are extant, including those contained in the Theravāda, Mahāsāṃghika, Mahīśāsaka, Dharmaguptaka, Sarvāstivāda and Mūlasarvāstivāda vinayas.
In early Mormonism, repentance for crimes such as murder or adultery, where restitution is not possible, involved personal sacrifice in order to make redemption possible through the atonement of Jesus Christ.
Walter, John, Understanding Popular Violence in the English Revolution: The Colchester Plunderers, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999.
And you gave the nazirites to drink wine, and you commanded the prophets saying, "Do not prophesy." The Rechabites were a group mentioned in the Bible who avoided wine, similar to nazirites.
Section 2 empowered judges to summon children to court to prove they had not gone abroad without licence under section 1.
The surviving "convert roll" details are a valuable primary source for historians of 18th-century Ireland.
In many Christian denominations, the taking of baptismal vows incorporates a person into church membership.
Verbo, Hungary (1517): the Jew would stand barefooted and swear with his face turned to the east, holding the Pentateuch in his hand.
One way church authority enforced celibacy was by ordaining monks, who took the vow of chastity, to evangelize large areas of Europe.
By this time in Japan, the Vinaya lineage had all but died out and Japan's remote location made it difficult to reestablish though limited efforts by Jōkei and the Shingon Risshu revived it for a time.
For about 130 years (between 1847 and 1978) all LDS endowment-related temple ordinances and priesthood ordinations were denied to all Black people in a controversial priesthood racial restriction.
A person may hold more than one priesthood office; in fact, once a person is ordained to a priesthood office, the person holds that priesthood office for as long as he holds the priesthood.
Many Penal Laws were repealed in general terms by the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1793; the sacramental test for Catholics was effectively replaced by the 1774 oath.
They must also "receive the sacrament of the Lord's Supper according to the usage of the Church of Ireland".
Specifically, in the Pāli texts of monastic discipline, King Bimbisāra requests the Buddha to establish an uposatha practice, to keep up with competing sects.
However, Webster does not expressly state that the formula in the Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum was used by Popes from the fifth to the eleventh century, which would obviously be impossible.
From the Buddhist scriptures In the Pali Canon's Jivaka Sutta, the Buddha is asked, "Lord, to what extent is one a lay follower (upāsako)?" The Buddha replies that one takes refuge in the Triple Gem.
He argued that a man who promised, either to a human being or to God (thus making a vow), to marry a certain woman was bound by that promise or vow, but if he broke it and married a different woman, the subsequent marriage was nonetheless considered valid.
The Council of Carthage excluded such intercourse perpetually and made no distinction between bishops, priests and deacons.
In Early Buddhism, the five precepts were regarded as an ethic of restraint, to restrain unwholesome tendencies and thereby purify one's being to attain enlightenment.
He managed to persuade the Thomas Christians, including advisors of Thoma I metran Palliveettil Chandy and Kadavil Chandy Kathanar .
Ten vows of Samantabhadra In the Avataṃsaka Sūtra, Samantabhadra makes ten vows which are an important source for East Asian Buddhism.
Several letters were sent to all the civil and religious authorities in Cochin, for at least an opportunity to visit Ahatallah, to examine his credentials and to verify his identity, promising that if he was found an imposter, they would be the first to press for his punishment.
Some of the characteristics of this cult are tied to the Canaanite cult in Hazor, where (in its Orthostat temple) a stele, with a crescent with a disc and two hand spread ur towards them, was found.
Authority of the Pope over the appointment of clergy was reduced to the right to be informed of election results.
Tamata are usually small metal plaques, which may be of base or precious metal, usually with an embossed image symbolizing the subject of prayer for which the plaque is offered.
Lying: lying to another person that one has attained a superior human state, such as claiming to be an arahant when one knows one is not, or claiming to have attained one of the jhānas when one knows one has not.
Vows in religious institutes In medieval times religious vows taken by members of religious institutes approved by the Holy See were regarded both as solemn and public.
The degree to which early Irish literature was influenced by Christianity is vigorously debated, with "revisionists", who stress Christian influence, on one side and "nativists", who stress indigenous and pagan influences, on the other.
Draupnir is typically attributed to Odin however in Skáldskaparmál it is once described as being owned by Baldr, and is lain in Baldr's pyre by Odin according to Gylfaginning.
Generally, the red priests were fervent supporters of the Civil Constitution of the Clergy, of which they were partial drafters.
Great wealth is also associated with Andvaranaut, a ring once owned by the dwarf Andvari and taken by Loki through coercion as weregild for his killing of Ótr.
They are considered to support meditation practice, and are often observed when staying in monasteries and temples.
The second concerns the physician's responsibility to be fully trained in and skilled in the administration of drugs, given that the physician's raison d'être is effective healing and that some medicines and surgical procedures can be potentially dangerous.
As a disciple of the Buddha, he ought to be compassionate and filial, helping all sentient beings develop the good roots of non-contention.
It also prohibited Catholics under 21 from going abroad without licence, to help enforce the prohibition in the Education Act 1695 (7 Will.
Vendryes argued that the suppression of the name of the god in an oath to that god was typical of Celtic religion.
For example, one whose life has been saved from near-death might make a new neder as a commitment toward God.
But according to some opinions, the performance of an act on three consecutive occasions is akin to a neder.
In Jómsvíkinga saga, after Earl Sigvaldi's vow, some of the men including his brother take turns to make greater vows, including not fleeing in battle, killing Thorkill Leira and raping his daughter.
Close similarities have been noted between heitstrengingar and Anglo-Saxon oath-swearing and boasting practices such as the beot, with both involving promises to accomplish tasks that would bring great honour if achieved.
The sixth article recognizes the fact that spiritual counseling or comfort can have a part to play in healing and that the physician needs to have at least some abilities in this area.
In the year 1652 of our Lord, in the month of August, on Monday, I arrived in Mylapore in the monastery of the Jesuits.
On 15 November 1793, he had resigned from the priesthood, but his past as a cardinal and bishop made the government suspicious of him.
Abandoning the Mahayana by saying that Mahayana texts are not the words of Buddha or teaching what appears to be the Dharma but is not.
Often from the lower clergy (parish priests and vicars), they constituted a significant faction within the Catholic Church in France at the beginning of the Revolution.
The Concordat was the organic act of the Catholic Church in France for a century; moreover, it legitimised and terminated the confiscations and church reforms that had been implemented over the course of the revolution.
By June 1790 the Assembly had officially abolished the nobility, and on July 12 passed the Civil Constitution of the Clergy.
If one can remember having made a neder, he must recite it to at least three adult men who are familiar with the laws of the specific type of neder.
In an interesting comparison to this, Suśruta, the father of Indian medicine, advises the physician not to treat a patient he suspects of being incurable so as not to be blamed for the patient's death and injure his reputation.
The event consists of a mass in which a taper is burned as an act of thanksgiving, and later crown of laurel is placed on the Columbus Monument in homage to the Admiral and the sailors of Moguer who took part in the discovery of America.
The practice of clerical continence, along with a prohibition of marriage after ordination as a deacon, priest or bishop, is traceable from the time of the Council of Elvira of approximately 305–306.
Ordinance and oath and covenant The church teaches that receiving the priesthood is a saving ordinance for males.
Some believe the letters may have been forged by Anjilimoottil Itty Thommen Kathanar, a skilled Syriac writer.
In many countries, it is also standard for novice monks (samanera) to follow the Sekhiyavatta rules in addition to the Ten Precepts.
his private parts from committing illegal sexual intercourse etc.), and whoever is not able to marry, should fast, as fasting diminishes his sexual power." Chastity is an attitude and a way of life.
At the beginning of the process, when the Assembly was stripping the clergy of their titles, they ignored the violent conduct of the most radical anticlerical elements.
The gesture was made by drawing the tip of the thumb swiftly across the throat until the thumb was just under the right ear then dropping the hand and arm quickly to the side of the participant's body.
Retrieved 2007-10-22 from "Access to Insight" (1996 transcription) at http://www.accesstoinsight.org/lib/authors/kariyawasam/wheel402.html.
Phoenician votive inscriptions or Punic votive inscriptions are votive inscriptions in the Phoenician and Punic religion, dedicated to a certain god or gods, mostly on stelae.
The anonymous author of the Cave of Treasures writes: And [the Priest] shall be a Nazirite all the days of his life.
Thus solemnly professed religious were barred absolutely from marriage, and any marriage they attempted was invalid.
Their leader Archdeacon Thomas had come to the conclusion that there was no remedy for their sufferings other than the introduction of an Eastern bishop according to their tradition.
Although the bishops from the Middle East were the spiritual rulers of the Church, the general administration of the Church of Kerala was governed by the indigenous Archdeacon.
3 (I)], which specified certain time limits left ambiguous by the original act, and closed some loopholes used by Catholics to remain beneficial owners of nominally Protestant property.
In 1521, two years after the Fifth Lateran Council had forbidden the establishment of new religious institutes, Pope Leo X appointed a rule with simple vows for those tertiaries attached to existing institutes who undertook to live in a community.
Due to Loki's greed and threats, Andvari places a curse on the ring, along with the rest of the hoard that Loki takes, that it will be the death of whosoever owns it.
It is also fundamental to the practise of the Catholic life because it involves an apprenticeship in self-mastery.
Moreover, the practice of the five precepts and other parts of śīla are described as forms of merit-making, means to create good karma.
It also restored the custom established by Pope Stephen III in 769 whereby both the laity and clergy of Rome would participate in Papal elections.
The prophet Isaiah rebuked Israel as the Babylonian captivity drew near, pointing out that they bore the name of God, and swore by him, but their swearing was hypocritical since they had forsaken the exclusive worship of Yahweh for the worship of idols.
If the free consent of the wife had not been obtained, the husband, even if already ordained, was to be reunited with his wife, exercise of his ministry being barred.
The person being baptised or their sponsor/s answers three questions prefaced with the words "Do you believe..." before the baptism is performed.
Within the Catholic Church, clerical celibacy is mandated for all clergy in the Latin Church except in the permanent diaconate.
[This refers either to a decent burial or to resurrection.] And so help you Adonai, you have sworn the truth.
Nevertheless, the members of the religious orders and those hermits who are in Holy Orders are members of the hierarchy.
The time period for Dissenters subscribing to the oath was routinely extended, initially by an Indemnity Act at the start of each biennial parliamentary session.
(Previously, most members of black African descent were excluded from priesthood ordination.) To receive the Melchizedek priesthood in the church today, the recipient must hold the Aaronic priesthood and be at least 18 years old.
Upholding the precepts is sometimes distinguished in three levels: to uphold them without having formally undertaken them; to uphold them formally, willing to sacrifice one's own life for it; and finally, to spontaneously uphold them.
During the debate on that matter, on 25 November, Cardinal de Lomenie wrote a letter claiming that the clergy could be excused from taking the Oath if they lacked mental assent; that stance was to be rejected by the Pope on 23 February 1791.
Furthermore, many nuns in Buddhist countries, such as the mae chi in Thailand or the dasa sil mata in Sri Lanka, observe the eight or ten precepts all the time as part of their way of life.
Notes See also Animal worship Rings in Germanic cultures – objects used for oath swearing in Germanic cultures References Bibliography Primary === Secondary ===
Committing any of the five extremely negative actions: (1) killing one's mother, (2) killing one's father, (3) killing an arhat, (4) intentionally drawing blood from a Buddha or (5) causing schism in the Sangha community by supporting and spreading sectarian views.
von Glasenapp, Helmuth (1925), Jainism: An Indian Religion of Salvation [Der Jainismus: Eine Indische Erlosungsreligion], Shridhar B.
Thus, the law had the effect of reducing the size and thus the influence of Roman Catholic landed estates, which was the act's ulterior motive.
Searching for a Mahāyāna Social Ethic, The Journal of Religious Ethics 24 (2), 351–375 (subscription required) External links Dogen, On Receiving the Precepts The Bodhisattva Precepts for Laypeople
Wilt thou then obediently keep God's holy will and commandments, and walk in the same all the days of thy life?Answer.
In Mormonism, the oath of vengeance (or law of vengeance) was part of the endowment ritual of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) implemented in 1845.
In most of the editions of the Mishnah, this treatise is the fourth in the order Nashim, and it is divided into 9 chapters, containing 48 paragraphs in all.
The 2022 Hulu series Under the Banner of Heaven (set in the 1980s) depicted the throat-slicing gesture of the pre-1990 LDS endowment ceremony.
In India, these vows are taken as an oath by individuals or groups of people when they convert to Buddhism.
But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife") and a locus classicus used against sacerdotal celibacy is the statement in 1 Timothy 3:2–4 that a bishop should be "the husband of one wife" and "one who ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection".
Before the destruction of the Jerusalem temple, priests (kohanim) and Levites were required to practice continence (abstain from sexual intercourse with their wives) before and during their time of service at the temple.
The Day of Atonement, October 16, was established during the Million Man March in Washington, DC, on October 16, 1995 by the Nation of Islam.
For this reason, some traditional texts make reference to "white-robed lay people" (avadāta-vassana).
Election of Clergy Deputies Priests and vicars (the lower clergy) were favored by the election process.
Historical development The disability imposed on a Jew engaged in legal contention with a Christian dates back to Byzantine emperor Justinian I, who declared that neither Jews nor heretics should be admitted as witnesses against Christians; secular courts, however, did not recognize this disability.
Bodhicittotpadaviddhi A ritual text on the bodhisattva vow attributed to Nāgārjuna called Bodhicittotpadaviddhi (Ritual for giving rise to bodhicitta, Tib.
The Archdeacon with a large number of Priests and several thousands of Saint Thomas Christians assembled at Mattancherry Cochin; their efforts to visit Ahatallah when the fleet arrived in Cochin intensified but ultimately, they were not fruitful.
One of the ways they found to do that was via oath of allegiances, the first of which was the Protestation.
Tibetan Buddhism The pratimokṣa of the Mulasarvastivada lineage followed in Tibetan Buddhism is taken for life unless one or more of the four root vows are broken.
The oath of vengeance is related to blood atonement in that both require capital punishment for sins regarded as unusually heinous.
According to Dhammika, this second article is equivalent to the Hippocratic Oath's third and fourth stipulation that the physician shall never do anything to harm a patient, even if asked to do so.
bile (pitta), phlegm (sema), wind (vāta); an imbalance of all three (sannipāta), seasonal changes (utu), stronger than normal stress (visamaparihāra), and external agencies (opakkamika), e.g.
τάματα, tamata) is a form of votive offering or ex-voto used in the Eastern Orthodox Church, particularly the Greek Orthodox Church.
If acts stemming from unrighteous dominion are criminal in nature, the church may be obliged to disclose the facts of the case to the proper law enforcement officials.
Debate over the Civil Constitution On 6 February 1790, one week before banning monastic vows, the National Constituent Assembly asked its ecclesiastical committee to prepare the reorganization of the clergy.
The Caduceus might symbolize both gods in some sort of a joint cult, but it exact meaning remains unknown.
However, no temple means that there is currently no way to make the offerings that end the Nazirite vow, so anyone taking the vow would become a de facto permanent Nazirite.
Similar practices have also been observed dating to the High Medieval Period in France and among the slavic peoples, although scholars have not reached a consensus over, whether and to what extent, they are influenced by the Germanic traditions.
Vows for monastics Novices' Vows (śrāmaṇera getsul; śrāmaṇerī, getsulma) — 36 vows Full Nun's Vows (bhikṣuni, gelongma) — 364 vows Full Monk's Vows (bhikṣu, gelong) — 253 vows Only full monks and full nuns are seen as full members of the Buddhist monastic order.
Mythology and legend In mythological contexts, rings typically reflect their historical roles and are typically important items of high quality craftsmanship, forged by dwarfs, such as Freyja's neck-ring, Brisingamen.
In addition to the restoration of the Melchizedek priesthood (and the keys of the apostleship), additional priesthood keys were conferred on Joseph Smith and others.
Origin The Vejjavatapada is derived from four passages from the Pāḷi Canon dating from between circa 5th and the 3rd centuries BCE, each of them attributed to the Buddha.
Buddhist monk and scholar Phra Payutto sees the Human Rights Declaration as an unfolding and detailing of the principles that are found in the five precepts, in which a sense of ownership is given to the individual, to make legitimate claims on one's rights.
The Anglo-Saxon chronicle records that in 876, the Danes were convinced to swear a peace oath on a holy ring (Old English: hâlgan beage) to King Alfred after his victory at Wareham.
Among these vows, the most significant is the eighteenth vow, which promises that any being who sincerely calls upon Amitabha's name with faith and resolve will be reborn in the Pure Land.
In writing names of God, a common practice includes substituting letters or syllables so that the written word is not exactly the name, or writing the name in an abbreviated manner.
Depending on the order, temporary vows may be renewed a number of times before permission to take final vows is given.
For a union of this kind which has been contracted in violation of the ecclesiastical law, we do not regard as matrimony.
However, it is anachronistic because the color red, associated with socialist movements since 1848, did not signify supporters of the French Revolution, who were referred to as "Blues" during the civil wars of 1793–1799, in contrast to the royalist "Whites".
Hænsa-Þóris saga presents an alternative way of performing heitstrengingar in which Hersteinn steps onto a stone with one foot before swearing an oath.
As of 2015, several training programs made explicit use of the five precepts as secular, ethical guidelines.
They wrote to Archbishop Garcia, requesting him to come and meet them but Garcia refused to accept the invitation.
Paul the Apostle occasionally invokes God's name in his epistles, calling God as witness to the purity of his motives and honesty of his dealings with the churches to whom he ministered.
Civil Constitution of the Clergy This new legislation dismantled and restructured the Church along the same lines as with the rest of society.
A letter from Bishop Ambrosius of Milan in the 4th century CE also describes arm rings being worn both by heathen Gothic priests and, to his displeasure, the Gothic Arian priests.
At a subsequent meeting in Alangad on May 23, 1653, another letter, also attributed to Ahathalla, was read.
In the penalty portion of the ceremony participants each symbolically enacted three of the methods of their execution: throat slitting, heart removal, and disembowelment.
During this time, numerous nonjuring priests were arrested and held on prison hulks where many died due to poor conditions aboard.
Section 7 gave a Catholic acquiring title to real property six months in which to enter into possession of it, failing which it descended to the nearest Protestant relative.
But one who is unable to do this can rely on the Kol Nidre of the community, which is recited on behalf of all Jews.
The use of power or influence to cover-up sin, indulge in vain ambitions or self-righteous conduct is considered unrighteous dominion.
An additional vow usually is an expression of the order or the congregation's charism or particular insertion in the apostolic field of the Church.
Nonetheless, a Nazirite who finds an unburied corpse is obligated to bury it, although he will become defiled in the process.
The Buddha mentioned a range of causes of sickness of which only one is karma; the others being an imbalance in one or another of the four humors; i.e.
See also Early Buddhist schools First Buddhist council Second Buddhist council Muzha (given name) Bibliography Indian Buddhism Prebish, Charles S.
English Translation Rendered in English, this is translated as: The Lord said: "Health is the greatest gain." He also said: "He who would minister to me should minister to the sick." I too think that health is the greatest gain and I would minister to the Buddha.
The concept of the neder and the Jewish law related to it, is described at the beginning of the parashah of Matot.
The vow taken at profession as a member of any religious institute is a public vow, but in recent centuries can be either solemn or simple.
On August 4, the newly assembled National Assembly drafted the ‘Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen,’ and over the next year completely dismantled French society and began to rebuild it from the ground up.
Background Saint Thomas Christians of Malabar was in communion with the Church of the East from 300 to 1599 by Portuguese.
Parrish decided to leave Utah with his family when he "grew cold in the faith", but had his throat slit near his Springville, Utah home.
The choice of a boar indicates a connection with Freyr, whose mount is the gold-bristled boar Gullinbursti, and the continuing Swedish tradition of eating pig-shaped cakes at Christmas recalls the early custom.
There are numerous other declarations of faith, typically performed during religious rituals in many faiths.
In the Lutheran Church Evangelical-Lutheran religious orders, such Daughters of Mary (sisters who have a devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary), and The Congregation of the Servants of Christ (monks who follow the Rule of Saint Benedict), take solemn vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience.
But there have been some exceptions of people who did not interpret the first precept as an opposition to war.
Their outcome was the beheading of King Charles, the temporary suspension of kingship under Oliver Cromwell's rule, and the English Restoration under Charles II, showing the complexity of events and general social anxiety reigning during Stuart England.
Strafford had successfully controlled the Irish revolt by convincing the Catholic gentry to pay taxes in exchange of future religious benefits, thus increasing the revenue of Charles I and pacifying Ireland.
In others, such as the Eastern Orthodox Church, the churches of Oriental Orthodoxy and some of the Eastern Catholic Churches, married men may be ordained as deacons or priests, but may not remarry if their wife dies, and celibacy is required only of bishops.
Section 18 provided that failure to comply with sections 16 or 17 would vacate the office and void acts done by the official, who would be fined £500 and subject to civil penalties.
As a Bodhisattva, whenever a destitute person comes for help, he should give that person what he needs.
Interestingly, the bodhisattva precepts sometimes supersede the prātimokṣa precepts; for example, certain secondary infractions suggest that actions typically deemed unethical—such as killing or lying—could be justified if they lead to greater benefit.
It has been further suggested that the tradition could have spread to the North Germanic peoples through contact with the Anglo-Saxons due to some of the earliest attestations of heitstrenging formulae are found in Old English sources such as Beowulf and the Battle of Maldon.
Indo-Tibetan Buddhism In Vajrayāna, the bodhisattva vows became the second of three sets of precepts, preceded by the prātimokṣa vows and followed by tantric commitments (samaya).
9 (I) indemnified officials who had not thitherto subscribed to the oath required by the Popery Act.
Nedarim by women According to the Torah, a neder pronounced by a married woman or a female "still living in her father's house" can be "disallowed" by her husband or her father, respectively, if they so choose, but only on the day that they hear the vow.
I shall have no faith in Gauri, Ganapati and other gods and goddesses of Hindus, and I shall not worship them.
The disciple hoping to receive the precepts first pays respects to the six directions, which represent their parents, teacher, husband or wife, friends, religious master and employees (traditionally servants).
At the time the election of Eugene was being challenged by Zinzinnus, the candidate of the Roman populace.
Since 2015 Yeoh has served on the Board of Trustees for Kew Foundation to support the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Leggett also states that carbon capture and storage has a "substantial timing problem" as it will take fifteen to twenty years to introduce the technology.
Selected works Children's books What a Country Without Animals What a Country Without Birds What a Country Without Grasslands What a Country Without Wetlands References External links "Essay on Ndyakira Amooti".
Empty Revelations: an essay on talk about, and attitudes toward, fiction, McGill-Queen's University Press, 2012.
Abbey devoted an entire chapter in his book Hayduke Lives to the events that took place at the Rendezvous.
He was a member of the German Bundestag and served as co-president of the Club of Rome jointly with Anders Wijkman from 2011 – 2019.
Leggett has been critical of the lack of reporting by the British mainstream media on the economic imperatives of climate change abatement.
In July 2018 he played a role in the Kwaio Reconciliation programme in the Solomon Islands, which put an end to a 91-year-old cycle of killings that stemmed from the murders in 1927 of British Colonial officers Bell and Gillies by Kwaio leader Basiana and his followers.
He also called attention to the business of smuggling of rare animals for the purpose of exposition or laboratory experiments, in particular endangered chimpanzees and parrots.
in music from the University of Missouri–Kansas City and completed her graduate work in philosophy at Yale University, receiving her M.A., M.Phil, and PhD.
Hemendra Singh Panwar is an Indian conservationist and civil servant, known for his efforts in the fields of wildlife and conservation.
See also Kodaikanal mercury poisoning Plachimada Coca-Cola struggle Heavy Metal: How a Global Corporation Poisoned Kodaikanal References External links https://www.ameershahul.com/ https://media.greenpeace.org/archive/Unilever-Mercury-Action-in-India-27MZIFXMJD5.html
He received the Millennium Botany Award in 1999 and the Marsh Ecology Award from the BES the same year.
1989: Status, distribution and general ecology of the Indian Python Python molurus molurus Linn.in Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur.
Roberts is an American educator, researcher, college professor, guest speaker, and planning historian, who is an associate professor in the Department of Urban and Environmental Planning for cultural planning at the University of Virginia.
The following year, he took over as Project Director of the gardens of the Calico Museum in Ahmedabad, and most recently, leads a team of horticulturists and landscape architects to restore an extensive set of sand dunes in Jaipur city, Rajasthan.
The newly-founded NAR became the first opposition party to win a national parliamentary election since independence in 1962.
He worked on resource use in and around forests and its impact on large mammal conservation for his PhD thesis under the guidance of Anindya Sinha.
Biography Charbonneau was born in Bordeaux in 1910 to a middle-class family from the French department of Lot et Garonne.
The book claims that while we can do little to change our genetic inheritance, much can be done to reduce human exposure to environmental carcinogens.
Within two days of Anthony's death, a group of 21 elephants Anthony had saved and befriended walked two days to his home.
VanderMeer is the founding editor and publisher of the Ministry of Whimsy Press, which he set up in the late 1980s while still in high school.
McAllister's film Great Bear Rainforest: Land of the Spirit Bear, shot for IMAX and Giant Screen theatres, was released internationally in 2019.
They have a wonderful feeling for the strange beauty of Australia; are frequently flavoured with Aussie vernacular expressions, and a good deal of emotional directness.
Career Scarr received bachelor's and master's degrees in English and rhetoric and public address from the University of Florida and taught high school English, public speaking and debate.
"A Comparison between Slaughterhouse Standards and Methods Used during Whaling", "An Introduction into Animal Welfare", in Philippa Brakes, Andrew Butterworth, Mark Simmons & Philip Lymbery, Troubled Waters – A Review of the Welfare Implications of Modern Whaling Activities.
Hooded warblers, along with birds more generally, were previously believed to form clutches with a single father.
His next novel, Zodiac (1988), is a thriller following a radical environmentalist in his struggle against corporate polluters.
D'Achille's murder is discussed in the final report of the Peruvian Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
Following his death, there were reports that some of the elephants he worked to save came to his family's home in accordance with the way elephants usually mourn the death of one of their own.
economists that a spectrum exists between total state ownership of the economy and total private ownership, he instead suggests that a spectrum should be understood between total democratic control of the economy and total autocratic control (whether state or private).
Family farm recent developments Fukuoka's farm in Shikoku was taken over by his son and daughter-in-law in the late 1980s, as Fukuoka reached an advanced age.
Portas was also influenced in her antisemitism by various French intellectuals, with whom antisemitism was prolific; she was especially influenced by Ernest Renan.
Townsend ISBN 1-4051-0328-0 Scholarly books 1997 - Plant life histories : ecology, phylogeny, and evolution, Editor ISBN 0-521-57495-1 1977 - Population biology of plants ISBN 0-12-325850-2 Selected highly cited scientific papers Harper, J.L., J.T.
After moving to Melbourne in the early 1980s, she became involved in People for Nuclear Disarmament.
Rain was published in 2015 by Crown, a division of Random House, and widely lauded for Barnett's nature writing and ability to translate science for a general audience.
She decided to leave India, returning to Germany to live in Bavaria in 1981 before moving back to France in 1982.
His professional field encompasses model-based future studies, scenario analysis, system dynamics, sustainability, climate, energy and ecological economics.
Richie has spoken at academic conferences including the 2016 Society for the Study of Southern Literature conference in Boston and the Dublin Gastronomy Symposium in 2018.
He holds BA and MAT degrees from Reed College and an MA (in Political Philosophy) from the University of California at Berkeley.
Her work was first published in 1959, and her literary career spanned nearly sixty years, producing more than twenty novels and more than a hundred short stories, in addition to poetry, literary criticism, translations, and children's books.
Kathryn Miles (Born Peoria, Illinois in 1974) is an American journalist, writer, and environmental theorist.
Chomsky was widely condemned for defending Faurisson, and France's mainstream press accused Chomsky of being a Holocaust denier himself, refusing to publish his rebuttals to their accusations.
However, Solomon has recently changed tack to be somewhat supportive of nuclear power Career and environmental activities Solomon writes that he was an adviser to President Jimmy Carter's task force on the environment in the late 1970s, which released The Global 2000 Report to the President in 1980.
Other techniques have been changed; the pattern of irrigation is more conventional to reduce conflicts with neighbours.
Reiner Grundmann (born 29 September 1955 near Freudenstadt), is Professor of Science and Technology Studies (STS) at the University of Nottingham and Director of its interdisciplinary STS Research Priority Group.
In 2021, Harden published Murder at the Mission: A Frontier Killing, Its Legacy of Lies, and the Taking of the American West, which examines the Whitman massacre.
The Hero’s Journey to the Third Pole (original title: Þriðji póllinn), Documentary film codirected with Anní Ólafsdóttir.
He is recognized as a pioneer of the dialogue between natural sciences and theology in Germany, taking particular interest in the consequences to the environment that result from the scientific/technological civilisation.
Personal life Yeoh is a practising Christian, and has expressed that her faith is part of inspiration for sustainable and environmental work.
Frequently described as an author of science fiction, Le Guin has also been called a "major voice in American Letters".
1: The North-South Continental Highway (1957) Pickett's Charge: A Microhistory of the Final Attack at Gettysburg, July 3, 1863, 1959 Revised in 1963.
She has also successfully sued organizations involved in filling lakes to build real estate, the improper use of polythene, hill cutting, deforestation, shrimp farming, and building illegal establishments on St.
Her second book, Blue Revolution: Unmaking America's Water Crisis, published by Beacon Press in 2011, reported on water solutions from Australia to Singapore and articulated a water ethic for the United States.
A general copywriter for a number of years, he edited the Press's Film Quarterly from 1958 until 1991.
From 1962 to 1986, she worked for Rocky Mountain Planned Parenthood, eventually as its executive director.
In 2023 he was appointed to the List of Arbitrators under the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty.
The Cambridge Companion to Nietzsche, co-edited with Bernd Magnus (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1994).
Heaven and Earth In 2009, Plimer released Heaven and Earth, a book in which he says that climate models focus too strongly on the effects of carbon dioxide, and do not give the weight he thinks is appropriate to other factors such as solar variation.
On 12 February 2026, Amitav Ghosh won The Wise Owl Literary Award 2026 Non Fiction category, for his book Wild Fictions: Essays.
Education Prerna holds a Masters in Labour Welfare from Gujarat University and has done graduate work in Economics at St Xaviers (Ahmedabad).
He was the first person to be appointed a Hillary Institute Hillary Laureate for International Leadership on Climate Change (2009).
The plot involves a weapon implanted in a character's skull, near-limitless replicators for everything from mattresses to foods, smartpaper, and air and blood-sanitizing nanobots.
In The Revenge of Gaia (2006), where he put forward the concept of sustainable retreat, Lovelock wrote: A television interviewer once asked me, "But what about nuclear waste?
He joins other prominent authors whose unpublished manuscripts will be locked away until the year 2114 in a specially designed repository in Oslo, Norway.
In his role as director of Eco-Justice Concerns for the Church of the Brethren General Board, Bhagat produced a newsletter entitled Between the Flood and the Rainbow.
In 1993, he joined the faculty of University College and the Department of Political Science, progressing to full professor status in 2006.
He has written for the New Statesman, The Ecologist, Granta and Geographical magazines, and The Guardian and The Observer newspapers in the UK, as well as The New York Times and The Washington Post in the United States; he also worked on and appeared in the film The Age of Stupid.
Punk rock band Rise Against includes Ishmael on their album The Sufferer & the Witness' reading list, and its sequel, My Ishmael, inspired the name of the band Animals as Leaders.
Chadwick is a past officer and current member of the board of The Vital Ground Foundation, and chairman of that organization's Lands Committee, responsible for choosing acquisition properties as part of Vital Ground's One Landscape wildlife corridor system.
Five hours after the account's creation, McCarthy's publisher confirmed that the account was fake and that McCarthy did not own a computer.
Business In 2020, she founded a Lymington-based cookbook and specialty food store, delaying launch until 2022 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2016, Jones launched The Messy Truth, a news feature documentary series and subsequent studio discussion series, The Messy Truth with Van Jones, which aired in 2017 on CNN.
Filmed in Costa Rica with her partner Nick Pattinson and their two young children, the series explored the country's environmental initiatives, renewable energy and sustainable development.
Havel's political philosophy was one of anti-consumerism, humanitarianism, environmentalism, civil activism, and direct democracy.
Social philosophy Jobs for Philosophers (Xlibris, 2003; ISBN 1-4134-4009-6) appears to be a collection of reviews of (real) adventurous philosophy books and projects, but is in fact a portrait of what philosophy might become.
External links Bedřich Moldan - Official website Archived 2015-11-17 at the Wayback Machine (in Czech) Bedřich Moldan, interview BBC, August 29, 2001 (in Czech)
During an interview on ABC's This Week, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs thanked Jones "for his service to the country", while noting that the president did not endorse his past comments nor his support for Abu-Jamal.
A number of Le Guin's writings, including the Earthsea series, challenged the conventions of epic fantasies and myths.
Caldicott stood as an independent candidate for the Australian House of Representatives at the 1990 federal election, contesting the Division of Richmond, against the Leader of the National Party, Charles Blunt.
From 1895 to 1898, Jepson served as instructor in Botany and carried on research at the University of California, Berkeley, Cornell University (1895), and Harvard University (1896–1897).
He became interested in botany as a boy and explored the adjacent San Francisco Bay Area, coming into contact with various botanists before he entered college.
Orca Book Publishers, 2013 Great Bear Wild: Dispatches from a Northern Rainforest, by Ian McAllister, introduction by Robert F.
One of his most significant decisions was to order a 13-part series on the history of Western art, to show off the quality of the new UHF colour television service that BBC Two offered.
The outcome was the North Report, published in 2006, which endorsed the MBH studies with a few reservations.
Author Wes Jackson is the author of several books and is recognized as a leader in the international sustainable agriculture movement.
He obtained his degree in Botany in (1946) and his MA and DPhil (1950) from Oxford with his doctoral thesis An investigation of the interaction of soil micro-organisms with special reference to the study of the bacterial population of plant root systems.
A Wizard of Earthsea and The Left Hand of Darkness have been described by critic Harold Bloom as Le Guin's masterpieces.
Early life and education McAllister was born in West Vancouver in 1969, one of five children of Peter and Jane McAllister.
Her books have been translated into 10 languages: Chinese, Dutch, German, Japanese, Korean, Persian, Polish, Portuguese, Slovenian, and Spanish.
In short, a land ethic changes the role of Homo sapiens from conqueror of the land-community to plain member and citizen of it.
Attenborough has received the title Honorary Fellow from Clare College, Cambridge (1980), the Zoological Society of London (1998), the Linnean Society (1999), the Institute of Biology (Now the Royal Society of Biology) (2000), and the Society of Antiquaries (2007).
His research covered the areas of environmental policy and energy policy, genetic engineering, sustainability and health policy.
Awards and accolades In 2019, she was awarded the Climate Breakthrough Award of US$2 million to develop a bold new global climate strategy.
intelligence agencies and the author of the books America's Secret Eyes in the Sky and The Ties That Bind.
The Green-Collar Jobs Campaign was Jones's first effort to combine his goals of improving racial and economic equality with mitigating environmental damage.
Constitution Raphael next turned to histories of the Constitution: President: How and Why the Founders Created a Chief Executive (2012) and Constitutional Myths: What We Get Wrong and How to Get It Right (2013).
"Thinking globally, acting (trans-) locally: Petra Kelly and the transnational roots of West German green politics." Central European History 43.2 (2010): 301–326.
Career Over the course of his career, Radford's approach to creating change has moved from activism to a more collaborative, solutions-based approach.
Since the mid-1970s, Suzuki has been known for his television and radio series, documentaries and books about nature and the environment.
She is part of the team of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to assess the management effectiveness of tiger reserves in an IUCN framework.
He sought to have fields planted in polycultures, more than one variety of plant in a field, like diverse plants grow together in nature.
Philip Weller is author of three books on environmental topics, including ‘Freshwater Seas’, an environmental history of the Great Lakes of North America.
In 2006, Suzuki was the recipient of the Bradford Washburn Award presented at the Museum of Science in Boston, Massachusetts.
His family later moved a few miles west to Lincolnwood, where his father was a local school principal.
David Henry Peter Maybury-Lewis (5 May 1929 – 2 December 2007) was a British anthropologist, ethnologist of lowland South America, activist for indigenous peoples' human rights, and professor emeritus of Harvard University.
Kelly was positioned between the tropical ecologist Mike Hands and the national parks visionary John Dower.
For the Cooper Basin, he proposed the establishment of a fully sustainable city where, "hundreds of thousands of people would live", utilising these geothermal energy reserves.
Early life and education Born on October 1, 1937, in Jamaica, Queens, New York, Berg was raised in Florida after moving there at age six, which was where he first became interested in the environment as a child.
ISBN 0-914171-61-5 Living Cheaply With Style: Live Better and Spend Less, Second edition (Berkeley: Ronin, 2000).
Early life and education Barnett was born in Fort Myers, Florida, and raised in Florida and California.
Vasily Belov devoted his last years to the restoration of the Nikolskaya church in Timonikha where he had been baptized as a child.
Raphael has also written a book on male initiation rites in contemporary American culture (The Men from the Boys), a study of the careers of teachers (The Teachers' Voice), and with his son Neil, a juvenile mystery (Comic Cops).
hc Günter Altner Archived 18 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine, obituary, VAS-Verlag (in German) Vermächtnis und Auftrag Archived 12 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Symposium of mourning held at the University of Lüneburg on 24 February 2012 (in German)
Priest wrote, "In 1965 Harrison and Aldiss published the first issue (of two) of the world's first serious journal of SF criticism, SF Horizons.
Dr Harper spent a further nine years conducting research at the Department of Agriculture, Oxford, and a sabbatical as Rockefeller Foundation Fellow at the University of California, Davis, he was in 1967 appointed head of the newly formed School of Plant Biology at Bangor University North Wales.
Reprising the theme in 2011, he argued in The Independent that Natural England had fallen short of expectations: "With next to no public debate, our wildlife watchdog has morphed into a pathetic delivery boy, charged with attending to "customer focus".
Creative Problem-Solving in Ethics (Oxford University Press, 2007; ISBN 0-19-530620-1) Environmentalism Back to Earth: Tomorrow's Environmentalism (Temple University Press, 1994, ISBN 1-56639-237-3).
Vive la decroissance conviviale !", Institut d'études économiques et sociales pour la décroissance soutenable (Institute for Economic and Social Studies for Sustainable Degrowth) (Paris, January 2006).
Brunner (Kilian Houston Brunner), Gill Hunt, John Loxmith, Trevor Staines, Ellis Quick, Henry Crosstrees Jr., and Keith Woodcott.
Her next book was Przevalskis hest (2019), named after Przewalski's horse, the third volume in her series on people and climate.
In 1990, the Toronto Star awarded him an Atkinson Fellowship in Public Policy to study AIDS and the failure of public health policy.
After visiting the Great Bear Rainforest in about 1994, he began studying and photographing the area.
Personal life Swain was among the members of the Indian diaspora whose Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) was canceled by the Government of India.
Health In 2017 Pincott revealed that she was suffering from rare, incurable, autoimmune connective tissue diseases believed by medical researchers to be both environment- and stress-related.
In December 2016, Jones was accused of having a conflict of interest for running a PR firm called Megaphone Strategies, which openly lobbies electoral college electors not to cast their vote for Donald Trump.
In 1980, he was appointed to the Ministry of Long-Term Planning, in Oslo, involved with macroeconomic planning.
He commonly analyzed and defended the effectiveness of traditional indigenous tribal societies—regarded by anthropological research as fairly egalitarian, ecologically well-adapted, and socially secure —as role models for developing a new diversity of workable human social structures in the future.
She attended school at Corpus Christi in Kottayam, Kerala, followed by the Lawrence School in Lovedale, Tamil Nadu.
In 2022, she released her third book, Nomad Century, where she argues that the coming decades will inevitably see billions of people migrate due to global heating.
Though the majority of her works operate in a world of fantastical imagery and metaphor, at the heart of her writing is real-world injustice and pain.
She reprised the role the following year in the sequel It Shouldn't Happen to a Vet, this time opposite John Alderton and Colin Blakely.
After studying the operation of the Earth's sulphur cycle, Lovelock and his colleagues, Robert Jay Charlson, Meinrat Andreae and Stephen G.
In 2016 McAllister presented a talk, "Conservation in Canada's Great Bear Rainforest" at the TEDxBrentwoodCollegeSchool event.
His work has been published in Vice News, Rolling Stone, The New York Times, Foreign Policy, The Guardian, Penthouse, The Walrus and The Toronto Star.
Programs in wheat, sorghum, and sunflower are generating crop lines displaying both perenniality and agriculturally-significant seed yield.
Early books Raphael's first books focused primarily on the history and regional issues of Northern California, where he has lived since the late 1960s.
Biography and career Mark O'Connor was born in Melbourne in 1945, the son of Kevin John O'Connor, later the Chief Stipendiary Magistrate of Victoria, and of Elaine Riordan/O'Connor, a journalist.
In 2016–17 she was Emerging Scholar Fellow in Race and Gender in the Built Environment of the American City, at Austin, Texas' School of Architecture.
In 2009, Pearse published a critique of the Rudd government's response to climate change in Quarterly Essay 33: Quarry Vision: Coal, Climate Change and the End of the Resources Boom.
After leaving academia and establishing the Land Institute, Jackson published New Roots for Agriculture, partially in reaction to a report from the U.S.
The project also aims to become a leader in natural capital research to produce high quality, evidence based credits reflecting the increases in carbon sequestration and biodiversity it hopes to achieve on a yearly basis.
His poetry book, Bónus Poetry, a mythological journey through the isles of an Icelandic Bónus Supermarket, based on the Divine Comedy by Dante became a best seller in 1996.
Grouse GR-100/Marquis MAR-106/Grouse 101-C (cass) (Vancouver Chamber Choir) Sun (words for sun in 36 languages) from Princess of the Stars (Patria prologue).
About 70 percent of his diet came from dumpsters—he ate more than 280 pounds (130 kg) of food from grocery store dumpsters to bring attention to food waste.
She received an Alumni Achievement Award from the Conservatory of Music at the University of Missouri–Kansas City (1999).
1998 – First annual Altman Award for "the inspiring and poetic use of science to elucidate the causes of cancer," from the Jenifer Altman Foundation 1998 – Will Solimene Award for "excellence in medical communication" from the New England chapter of the American Medical Writers Association.
As he neared writing the end of each book, he would rise increasingly early each day, meaning that he would sleep for less than four hours by going to bed at 10 p.m.
The New Zealand Defence Force Chief Lieutenant-General Tim Keating challenged the book's accuracy and denied that NZ forces had operated in the Naik and Khak Khuday Dad villages.
During the interview, he related several stories illustrating the degree of outright poverty he endured at times during his career as a writer.
At the heart of EPEA is Cradle to Cradle Design, to create products oriented toward a life-cycle economy.
Sustainable retreat Sustainable retreat is a concept developed by Lovelock to define the necessary changes to human settlement and dwelling at the global scale to adapt to global warming and prevent its expected negative consequences on humans.
He worked for 4 years on the project, till 1985, during which time, the project brought seven additional reserves under its umbrella.
Bernard William Alexander Kirby (11 July 1939 – 23 November 2025) was a British journalist, who specialised in environmental issues.
She is the author of the water books Mirage (2007), Blue Revolution (2011), Rain (2015), which was longlisted for the National Book Award and a finalist for the 2016 PEN/E.O.
This piece also goes over the magnitude of this genre and presents essays from varying nature authors.
Early life and education James Lovelock was born in Letchworth Garden City to Tom Arthur Lovelock and his second wife Nellie.
This premise or plot device has been imitated and used by other authors and screenwriters in several books, movies and television shows since.
His sizable audience should welcome the latest voyage in search of the secret springs of creativity – evolutionary, cosmic, mental – as a muted adumbration of temporal mortality." Other reviews: "Eiseley has met strange creatures in the night country, and he tells marvelous stories about them ...
When she was 17, she enrolled at the University of Adelaide medical school and graduated in 1961 with a MBBS degree.
His Foreign Policy piece The Convenient Disappearance of Climate Change Denial in China Energy won the Energy of Words Media Contest in 2018.
CFCs After developing his electron capture detector, in the late 1960s, Lovelock was the first to detect the widespread presence of CFCs in the atmosphere.
Awards and honors 2000 honorary doctorate degree of the Lüneburg University Festschrift: Gerd Michelsen, Udo E.
A Thousand Barrels a Second: The Coming Oil Break Point and the Challenges Facing an Energy Dependent World (2006).
He was a member of the Queensland Climate Change Council established by the Queensland Minister for Sustainability, Climate Change and Innovation Andrew McNamara.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s Rasputin, called by some the leading figure of the "Siberian environmental lobby", took an active part in the campaign for protection of Lake Baikal and against the diversion of Siberian fresh water to Central Asian republics.
Between 2003 and 2013, he was executive secretary of the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River.
Around this time, Miyazaki started work on the final volumes of the manga Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, which he created in-house at Studio Ghibli.
He attended Shawnigan Lake School, on Vancouver Island and took Southeast Asian studies at the University of Victoria.
However, the Mike and Fitz Breakfast Show still trailed a long way behind the number one program on 2GB, hosted by FitzSimons' former coach Alan Jones.
Peter Barnes (born April 16, 1940, in New York City) is an American entrepreneur, environmentalist, and journalist.
"The war was in Chesterton's eyes a crusade, and he was certain that England was right to fight as she had been wrong in fighting the Boers." Chesterton saw the roots of the war in Prussian militarism.
ISBN 978-0-425-15602-5 (1995) Virgin Forest Virgin Forest is a collection of twelve related essays about how we think about and treat nature.
She earned a bachelor's degree in journalism and a master's in American history with a specialization in environmental history, both from the University of Florida, and has described Florida's nature and weather as significant inspiration for her work.
The public debate about climate change in Germany was at its height around 1986, when the energy committee of the Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft (AKE) predicted a climate catastrophe rendering earth a dead planet within 50 years.
Sky Trust proposal Barnes' Sky Trust proposal is based on the idea that each and every American owns the sky as if it were a common asset.
It made the prediction of global cooling of the planet in the last decades of the 21st century, and the coming of a little ice age before 2500.
Kim Stanley Robinson (born March 23, 1952) is an American science fiction writer best known for his Mars trilogy of novels.
After graduating, he worked as a research wildlife biologist studying mountain goats and grizzly bears in northwestern Montana.
Global Climate Coalition Radford led a national divestment/disinvestment campaign, that resulted in the dissolution of the Global Climate Coalition.
Earth Jurisprudence and Rights of Nature Inspired by Thomas Berry’s ten principles for the revision of jurisprudence, Cullinan published Wild Law: a manifesto for Earth Justice (2002).
Her short stories, poems and articles have appeared in science fiction and fantasy publications including Galaxy, Thirteenth Moon, Star*line and others.
In the 2015 New Year Honours, Harrow was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to the dramatic arts.
He has also warned that the proposed Australian carbon-trading scheme could decimate the Australian mining industry.
Storm was dramatized as A Storm Called Maria on the November 2, 1959, episode of ABC's anthology television series Walt Disney Presents.
She spent 2004–2005 as a Knight-Wallace Fellow at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan researching freshwater scarcity.
This explored the details of the book he published in July 2017, Sunlight and Seaweed: An Argument for How to Feed, Power and Clean Up the World.
Moore became president of Greenpeace Canada (the new name for Greenpeace Foundation) and a director of Greenpeace International.
Bhagat sought to expand upon the traditional Brethren support for pacifism to include environmental concerns, saying "Working on these...
She held visiting fellowships at the University of Illinois, Radcliffe/Harvard, and Northeastern University, and served on President Bill Clinton's National Action Plan on Breast Cancer.
OCLC 1030754409.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) FitzSimons, Peter (2018).
Survivre au développement : De la décolonisation de l'imaginaire économique à la construction d'une société alternative (Mille et Une Nuits, 2004).
For fifteen years Raphael taught all subjects except foreign language at a one-room public high school in his remote neighborhood.
The PKK claims that this project is not envisioned as being only for Kurds, but rather for all peoples of the region, regardless of their ethnic, national, or religious background.
References External links Burgmann, Verity (1952 - ) at The Encyclopedia of Women and Leadership in Twentieth-Century Australia
He was arrested during The Emergency and was held in illegal custody for alleged possession of communist literature.
He created or co-created the universal grammar theory, the generative grammar theory, the Chomsky hierarchy, and the minimalist program.
His best-known academic work is Names on the Land: A Historical Account of Place-Naming in the United States (1945; reprinted, New York Review Books, 2008).
Cambridge, Mass: Global Equity Initiative, Asia Center Harvard University Distributed by Harvard University Press.
Co-produced by Ken Nelson Productions, it blended newsreel footage of several different storms to represent the mega-storm of the novel and traced the storm from its origins in Japan to the coast of California.
His book Requiem for a Species (Earthscan 2010) explores climate change denial and its implications.
This incident was considered as shocking because Travis was raised by humans his whole life and was very friendly towards them.
He began to question civilization in the early 80s, after having sought to confront issues around the neutrality of technology and division of labour, at the time when Fredy Perlman was making similar conclusions.
At the end of World War II, he left city life to settle in the countryside, skipping the opportunity to further his academic achievements in a large city.
Her second book, Invaded, the biological invasion of South Africa's cities, documents the consequences of the introduction of invasive alien plant and animals species into South Africa.
Distributism stands as a third way, against both unrestrained capitalism, and socialism, advocating a wide distribution of both property and political power.
Selected works L'invention de l'économie au XVIIIe siècle : du droit naturel à la physiocratie, Paris, Puf, coll.
Krishen has created "native-plant" gardens in Delhi, west Rajasthan, and Garhwal, and is currently working on a large rewilding scheme at Rao Jodha Desert Rock Park near Mehrangarh fort in Jodhpur, Rajasthan.
In addition to his own poetry, since 2002, he has translated 3 of Shakespeare's 400-year-old plays (in verse but into more intelligible lightly modernized modern English).
Before the files' release, Chomsky had said he received around $270,000 from an account connected to Epstein while sorting through common funds after his wife Carol's death.
He has also appeared in the documentary films The End of the Line (2009) and Seaspiracy (2021) and was chief scientific adviser to the BBC's 2017 documentary series Blue Planet II.
Environmentalism Barnes is an ardent environmentalist and an outspoken advocate of the need to reduce carbon emissions.
Regarding the accusation of "eco-terrorism," Abbey responded that the tactics he supported were trying to defend against the terrorism he felt was committed by government and industry against living beings and the environment.
Luis Veiga da Cunha (born 1936 in Lisbon), is a Portuguese scientist, Professor at the Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering of the NOVA University Lisbon.
The verdict of the Danish Committees for Scientific Dishonesty fueled this debate and brought it into the spotlight of international mass media.
Gaia & The Cambrian Explosion 1996, Gaia & The Cambrian Explosion: A Short History for Everyone of Life on Earth.
The campaign's funding goal of $500,000 was reached by the target date of July 9, 2012, but funding options remained open and the project continued to accept contributions on its official site.
During the grant period she attended the wooden boat building school at Cape Fear Community College and produced an epistolary column for WoodenBoat.
Buis is an American speculative fiction writer, playwright, poet and artist who was born in Middlesboro, KY.
But to dismiss the experience as "just imagination" would be impossible without being dishonest about how it had felt at the time.
See also Individual and political action on climate change Notes External links Climatechange.ie Website thinkorswim Climatechange.ie blog
Bewilderment, published in September 2021, was shortlisted for the 2021 Booker Prize and longlisted for the National Book Award and Andrew Carnegie Medal for Excellence in Fiction.
The term, as it had been coined in the 1870s by Ernst Haeckel, a German biologist and monist, was about a branch of biology dealing with the interaction of organisms and their surroundings.
Gilles Lipovetsky (French: [lipɔvɛtski]; born 24 September 1944) is a French philosopher, writer, and sociologist.
Barnes contends that his proposals are more workable and sustainable than that of the cap-and-trade policies of the Kyoto Protocol.
The group's manifesto stated: "Pure photography is defined as possessing no qualities of technique, composition or idea, derivative of any other art form." Imitating the example of photographer Alfred Stieglitz, Adams opened his own art and photography gallery in San Francisco in 1933.
Publisher, 有限会社フィオーナ External links Akame Natural Farming School Archived 18 August 2011 at the Wayback Machine Earth Village Network Natural Farming homepage in Japanese
1992 National Journalism Awards, Human Interest Writing Ernie Pyle Award, for coverage of the siege of Sarajevo during the Bosnian War.
He has written extensively on the scam, with the first article on the subject appearing in The Economic Times in November 2007.
Between 1985 and 1989, he played with CA Brive in France for four seasons as the club's first foreign player.
In 2009 he was awarded the Quadriga Award, but decided to return it in 2011 following the announcement of Vladimir Putin as one of the 2011 award recipients.
He accuses Irish newspapers and Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ) of "giving too much coverage to 'anti-science' climate change deniers and failing to convey the gravity of the threat, making readers and viewers apathetic".
Jackson argues that this version of agriculture used "nature as model," and to pursue that end, The Land Institute has studied prairie ecology.
Hermann Scheer was a critic of the Desertec desert power project, seeing the project as a reinforcement of the monopoly of energy companies and considering the transport and investment costs to be too high.
Awards Joubert was awarded two honorary Sunday Times Alan Paton Non-Fiction Awards, one for Scorched in 2007 and the other for Invaded in 2010.
Pampa Galeras – Barbara D'Achille National Reserve is named after D'Achille, as is the Manu parrotlet (Nannopsittaca dachilleae).
The Land Institute is not itself developing machinery suitable for one-pass harvesting of grain polycultures.
On November 19, in the Town of Reading Court, she was sentenced to 15-days in jail after refusing to pay her fine.
While working as a NASA consultant, Lovelock developed the Gaia hypothesis, for which he is most widely known.
In April 2011, Robinson presented at the second annual Rethinking Capitalism conference, held at UC Santa Cruz.
Grouse GR-101-C (cass) (Vancouver Chamber Choir) The Star Princess and the Waterlilies (Schafer), from And Wolf Shall Inherit the Moon (Patria conclusion).
Works Hamilton has written about the issue of climate change politics over a period of some 15 years.
As a book critic since 2004, Melo has reviewed books by Thomas Pynchon, William Vollmann, Colson Whitehead, and Tom Robbins, among others.
275 pages of wolverine ecology, adventure, and discovery based on participation in the Glacier Wolverine Project.
He attended the University of Florida for three years and, in 1992, took part in the Clarion Writers Workshop.
Throughout the 19th century, works of nature writing included those of American ornithologist John James Audubon (1785–1851), Charles Darwin (1809–1882) and Alfred Russel Wallace (1823–1913).
Rebuild the Dream In June 2011, Jones worked with MoveOn.org to launch the Rebuild the Dream campaign, which was intended to start a progressive American Dream movement to counter the Tea Party movement.
Some criticisms of the Sky Trust include: the charge that the revenue earned by the Sky Trust could be better allocated by subsidizing clean energy prices, and that the Sky Trust would need to be a global initiative to have an environmental as well as social impact on the planet.
He has expanded the charity's operations internationally, including establishing offices in the EU, US and China and repositioned the charity as an animal welfare environmental organisation linking animal welfare and food policy to environmental decline.
Life and career Richard Girling, born in Hitchin, Hertfordshire in 1945, is a journalist for The Sunday Times.
In 2007, Berg told CBS News, "The media, to a large extent had created this 'hippie' who was a person making a 'V for Victory' sign with a silly grin, and wearing 50 buttons that said this and that.
See also List of Icelandic writers Icelandic literature References External links Media related to Andri Snær Magnason at Wikimedia Commons Official website
1999 – Sierra Club heralded Steingraber as "the new Rachel Carson." 2001 – Biennial Rachel Carson Leadership Award from Chatham College, Rachel Carson's alma mater.
She completed a PhD in Science and Technology Studies at the University of New South Wales in 1989 based on research into the process of engineering decision-making using a case study on the development of Sydney's sewerage system.
Bruyninckx´ academic expertise lies in international environmental policy, studying the effects of globalization on the global governance of environmental issues and sustainable development.
Zum Verhältnis der Wissenschaft zu Politik, Wirtschaft und Medien in der Wissensgesellschaft, Weilerswist 2001, ISBN 3-934730-29-9 Peter Weingart, Jürgen Kroll, Kurt Bayertz: Rasse, Blut und Gene.
In 1981, he joined the United Nations in New York as director at the UN Center for Science and Technology.
Writings Over the decades, Diski was a prolific writer of fiction and non-fiction articles, reviews and books.
Her second book, All Standing: The Remarkable Story of the Jeanie Johnston, The Legendary Irish Famine Ship was published by Simon & Schuster in 2013.
He also was member of the scientific advisory council of the Institut Mensch, Ethik und Wissenschaft (IMEW) and reflected on the positions taken by the Evangelical Church in Germany regarding questions of nuclear energy, responsibility towards creation and peace policy.
He is also a prominent advocate of the Save Moreton Bay organisation, the Environment Defender's Office, the Australian Wildlife Conservancy and the Marine Conservation Society, with which he is campaigning against shark finning.
1990: Centre for Investigative Journalism Award in the magazine category that he shared with Ed Struzik for the 1989 article "The Great Forest Sell-Off" in Report on Business.
He also quoted NASA's Professor James Hansen, "arguably the world authority on climate change" who said, "we have just a decade to avert a 25-metre rise of the sea".
Verity Burgmann and Jenny Lee, Staining the Wattle: A People's History of Australia since 1788, McPhee Gribble/Penguin, Melbourne, 1988.
Positions served Prerna has served on the Uttarakhand State Board for Wildlife and was a member of the National Board for Wildlife and part of its core Standing Committee between 2010 and 2013.
He was twice awarded Poetry Fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and received a Foundation for Contemporary Arts Grants to Artists award (2012).
Günter Altner (20 September 1936 – 6 December 2011) was a German interdisciplinary active scientist, biologist, Protestant theologian, ecologist, environmentalist, writer and lecturer.
In 1993–1995 the Sovremennik Publishers issued the first Complete Vasily Belov collection in five volumes.
Her work Living Downstream: An Ecologist Looks at Cancer and the Environment, reflects the ideals that Rachel Carson expressed in her seminal book, Silent Spring.
Later activism After leaving Parliament, Shand gained certification as an Associate Environmental Auditor from the Environmental Auditors Registration Association (UK).
His 1968 novel Stand on Zanzibar exploits the fragmented organizational style that American writer John Dos Passos created for his U.S.A.
Esperanto In his middle years, Harrison became an advocate of Esperanto, saying he could "write and speak it with an automatic ease I have never been able to capture in any language other than my native English"; he learned it, according to Christopher Priest, out of boredom during military service.
Asia Pulp and Paper From 2010 to 2013, Radford managed the Greenpeace team that persuaded more than 100 U.S.
She was on the editorial board for the Journal of Memetics (an electronic journal) from 1997 to 2001, and has been a consulting editor of the Skeptical Inquirer since 1998.
1947) is a Canadian mining exploration company director, a former minerals prospector and semi-retired mining consultant whose work has included statistical analysis.
Notable non-fiction environmental writers include: American non-fiction environmental writers Other non-fiction environmental writers See also List of environmental books References External links Environmental Writers How Writers Created the Environmental Movement - U.S.
He reported on various environmental issues, such as endangered mountain gorillas, the forests of Bwindi, and illegal mining and poaching.
Advances in macro photography made it possible to capture the natural behaviour of very small creatures for the first time, and in 2005, Life in the Undergrowth introduced audiences to the world of invertebrates.
See also Jacinta Kerketta Abhay Xaxa References External links Dayamani Barla:The voice of Jharkhand Archived 5 September 2008 at the Wayback Machine
His Everyday History of Somewhere, an earthy treatment based on interviews with old-timers that intermingled natural with human history, won the California Commonwealth Club award for best book on California for 1974.
The congregation chose half the council, and Edwards was allowed to select the other half of the council.
Tim Stephens is professor of international law at the University of Sydney and fellow of the Australian Academy of Law.
Goldbach, "Utopian Music: Music History of the Future in Novels by Bellamy, Callenbach and Huxley," in: Utopia Matters.
Annihilationism Stott tentatively held to annihilationism, which is the view that the final state of the unsaved, known as hell, is death and destruction, rather than everlasting conscious torment.
Since 2013 he has served on the advisory board of the Liz Claiborne Art Ortenberg Foundation, a New York-based non-profit that supports wildlife research and collaborative, community-based conservation projects around the world.
He is the founder and Executive Director of the Cascade Institute at Royal Roads University in Victoria, British Columbia.
In July 2015, Flinders University senior management began quietly canvassing its staff about a plan to host the renamed Lomborg Consensus Centre at the university, likely in the Faculty of Social and Behavioural Sciences.
She became notable for her activism in opposing Arcelor Mittal's steel plant in Eastern Jharkhand that tribal activists say would displace forty villages.
Tzeporah is one of the primary negotiators and architects of the Great Bear Rainforest campaign in Canada that led to the permanent protection of 6 million hectares of old growth rainforest in 2006.
Penser et agir avec la nature : une enquête philosophique, with Raphaël Larrère, Paris, La Découverte, 2015 ISBN 9782707185716.
Background Miles grew up in the Midwest of the United States and worked as a cub reporter for Journal Star in Peoria, Illinois.
In 2012, he published Greenwash: Big Brands and Carbon Scams – an analysis of whether the climate-friendly revolution being advertised by large multinationals is real.
correspondent for Newsweek and was subsequently employed as a west coast correspondent for The New Republic.
Subsequently, he joined Keltron in 1981 and was the Deputy General Manager of Keltron at its Aroor branch at the time of his superannuation in May 2015.
Gottlieb lives in Boston with his wife, noted psychotherapist and author Miriam Greenspan, and shares in the care of his daughters, Anna and Esther.
Crikey, 2014, http://www.crikey.com.au/2014/07/14/get-fact-testing-ian-plimer-on-wind-and-solar-power/ The value of interdisciplinary research.
In 2020 she launched the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative, of which she is the chair.
After the election of 1977 Ginjaar was appointed as Minister of Health and Environment in the Cabinet Van Agt-Wiegel, taking office on 19 December 1977.
(2003) Why big, fierce animals are threatened: conserving large mammals in densely populated landscapes.
Nebula Awards winner Neil Gaiman stated, "I learn more from her books at every stage of life than from any other writer." Other writers she influenced include Booker Prize winner Salman Rushdie, as well as David Mitchell, Algis Budrys, Kathleen Goonan, and Iain Banks.
The strategy was not just to tell companies what they should stop doing, but rather "what they should continue doing and start doing in order to stay in business but avoid protests." Berman went on to be one of the lead negotiators in the Canadian Boreal Forest Agreement.
References External links Interview with Serge Latouche, Let's give a name to the future: Development or Degrowth?
He has taken part in several Chatham House, UN and EAT meetings, and his lectures, speeches and appearances take him across the world to meet with policymakers, companies, experts and members of the public.
Seal / Sojourn was screened at this festival also, having premiered at the New Jersey Independent South Asian Cine Fest earlier the same year.
The name referred to the group's goal of reducing the total US incarcerated population by 50% over a ten-year period.
He is also a director of the Gobi Bear Fund, part of the Gobi Bear Initiative, which attempts to restore the world's least known and most endangered population of grizzly bears.
His writings have analysed the perceived failure of Project Tiger, a conservation apparatus created in 1973 by the Government of India.
Additionally, he wrote a section on habitat conservation which he stressed the importance of preserving habitats, including forests, rivers, and wetlands, to support wildlife.
Lloyd is a regular speaker at book festivals and on environment panels, and is currently Writer in Residence with Lancaster University's Future Places Centre.
While serving in the Australian Air Force, he also became involved in the nuclear disarmament movement.
Gaia Vince (born 1973 or 1974) is a freelance British environmental journalist, broadcaster and non-fiction author with British and Australian citizenship.
It is a dual biography of Kim Il Sung, the founder of North Korea and No Kum-sok, a defector who stole a MiG-15 and landed it in South Korea.
His nature writings and essays about the environment were published in various venues, including ecopoetics, The Alphabet of Trees: A Guide to Writing Nature Poetry, and ISLE, the journal of Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and the Environment.
In 2012, Gilding delivered a presentation on the thesis of his book at the 2012 TED conference titled The Earth is Full.
Harper Young Investigator's prize annually to the best paper in Journal of Ecology by a young author.
Career Roberts' work focusses on African American identity, heritage, community development, and historic preservation.
He criticised the majority Task Force view in his dissent note as excessively focussed on the prospects of co-existence of tigers and humans, which was, in his view not consistent with the objective of the panel.
Hiaasen's most recent nonfiction work is Assume the Worst: The Graduation Speech You'll Never Hear, which was published in April 2018 and illustrated by Roz Chast, known for her cartoons in The New Yorker.
Maritime and fishing Richie is a licensed Maritime and Coastguard Agency mariner, having worked on international yacht crews after completing training with the Royal Yachting Association and earning a Ship's Cook Certificate under the Maritime Labour Convention.
Frederick George, as "Stephen Bury" The Diamond Age: or A Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (1995) – Hugo and Locus SF Awards winner, 1996; Nebula, Campbell and Clarke Awards nominee, 1996 The Cobweb (1996) with J.
Yoshikazu Kawaguchi (川口由一, Kawaguchi Yoshikazu; 1939 – 9 June 2023) was the leading Japanese practitioner of the "natural farming" method popularized by Masanobu Fukuoka and farmed by this method in Sakurai City, Nara Prefecture for 30 years.
OCLC 1030754077.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) FitzSimons, Peter (2020).
In 1998, he was elected a member of the German Bundestag for the Social Democratic Party (SPD) and was re-elected in 2002.
A regular contributor to Malayalam periodicals on environmental issues, Neelakandan is a former State Convener of Aam Aadmi Party Kerala.
He is internationally known for his work as a leading analyst and exponent of religious environmentalism, for his passionate and moving account of spirituality in an age of environmental crisis, and for his innovative and humane description of the role of religion in a democratic society.
Vince wrote and presented a three-part Channel 4 television series Escape to Costa Rica, first broadcast in April 2017.
On August 22, 2013, Stanford University announced that Powers had been named the Phil and Penny Knight Professor of Creative Writing in the Department of English.
He proposed the Gila as a prime candidate, envisioning it as a space free from roads, motorized vehicles, and industrial development.
Born in Glasgow, Scotland, Beaton was educated at the universities of Edinburgh, Moscow and Bochum and graduated from the University of Edinburgh with First-Class Honours in Russian and German.
Later he served for four years as director of Great Lakes United dealing with environmental measures in the Great Lakes area and as a program director of WWF International (Danube Carpathian Programme) in Austria.
A co-founder of the Sierra Club in 1892, he was much honored in later life for his research and impact on his fields.
His stewardship of the Ranthambore Foundation was recognised and he was appointed a member of the Tiger Task Force of 2005 by the Government of India.
Every August, the family vacationed in Michigan on the forested Marquette Island in Lake Huron, which the children took to exploring.
Power, Profit & Protest: Australian Social Movements and Globalisation, Allen & Unwin, Sydney, 2003.
She is currently the Executive Director at YTL Singapore and Director of YTL Corporation's carbon credit and clean development mechanism consultancy.
He broke onto the literary scene when his first published poems won the Poetry Australia Biennial Poetry Prize in 1973, and again in 1975.
This latter position was attacked as patronising and naive by some developing world commentators, including one featured in a Channel Four debate after the programme aired.
Diane Gagneret states that Diski's writings about depression and "madness" mirror those of Doris Lessing.
Each took over for the other when one was busy with something else or incapacitated, and Richard continued to inform his father immediately of hominid finds.
Many of his novels and stories have ecological, cultural, and political themes, featuring scientists as heroes.
In 2002, in The First American Revolution, Raphael chronicled the overthrow of British authority in the hinterlands of Massachusetts in 1774, the year before Lexington and Concord.
Member of editorial board of Conservation Biology, published by the Society for Conservation Biology.
The book discusses the Anthropocene, the proposed epoch that begins when human activities started to have a significant global impact on Earth's ecosystems.
Thus, growing more food to stave off a starvation crisis only leads to more people and thus an expectation to grow even more food.
Awards Source Works Novels Series The True Game (a trilogy of trilogies) The Peter series was the first published.
He predicted that meat eating will be a thing of the past by 2100 in a debate at Oxford Union in January 2018 and in an op-ed article published in The Daily Telegraph the same month.
Journalism Harden worked for 28 years for The Washington Post as a correspondent in Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia, as well as in New York and Seattle.
Critics of Davis have accused her of "cherry-picking" evidence and misrepresenting the studies upon which her conclusions were drawn, while the EHT has been accused of promoting low quality sources.
The Land Institute is working to develop perennial grains, pulses, and oilseed-bearing plants to be grown in ecologically intensified, diverse crop mixtures under its Natural Systems Agriculture program.
In June 1989, he was the first Czech to be included in the United Nations Global 500 honour roll of individuals and organizations that have made a significant contribution to the protection and improvement of the environment.
It was at this time that she once again became involved in raising awareness about a new deadly bout of cyanide poisoning in Hwange.
These include being accused by the local Governor (who later became a government Cabinet Minister) of being a Spy, working for the Australian government, tasked with bringing down Land reform in Zimbabwe.
As the founder Director of the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, the premier ornithology institute in the country, he led several studies for the conservation of threatened bird of India.
Beetle Boy won the 2017 Branford Boase Award and multiple other honors and will be adapted for television.
Early life and family Beder was born in 1956 in Wellington, New Zealand, granddaughter of Jewish immigrants from Scotland, England and eastern Europe, before the second world war, and daughter of Jacqui and Yoss Beder.
Moore's contemporaries included Henry Williamson (1895–1977), best known for Tarka the Otter, whose imaginative prose won him the Hawthornden Prize in 1928.
Helen Mary Caldicott (born 7 August 1938) is an Australian physician, author, and anti-nuclear advocate.
Altner played a relevant role in the discourse in Germany thanks to his interdisciplinary academic background and his expertise both in ecology and in the theological reflection on environmental ethics.
Adams participated in the club's annual High Trips, later becoming assistant manager and official photographer for the trips.
She performed with the Florida State University Dance Theatre, and from 1983 served as president of the Titusville, Florida, non-profit Community Dance Theater.
Jeremy also served on the New Energy Architecture Global Agenda Council of the World Economic Forum (2012–2014), a group primarily working on "black swans" in energy markets.
He later commented that he left Greenpeace because it "took a sharp turn to the political left" and "evolved into an organization of extremism and politically motivated agendas".
Biography Childhood Megre was born in Chernigov Oblast, USSR, in present-day Ukraine, and grew up in the village of Kuznichi.
In 2016, it produced The Messy Truth miniseries, which won a Webby Award, and in 2020 it produced The Messy Truth VR experience, which won an Emmy Award.
Gibbons has argued that global economic recovery will be constrained by energy shortages, and he points out that the Irish economy, with its relatively high per capita use of energy, is particularly vulnerable to "peak oil", the anticipated decline in global oil production.
The band adapted extracts from the novel, together with broadside ballads, plague poetry and Lancashire Cotton Famine poetry to create a back story to the events that Jefferies details in his novel.
Chadwick's affiliation with National Geographic spans more than thirty-five years and more than fifty articles from the first in 1977 up to an assignment in 2019 for an article on wolverines.
Between 1989 and 1991, he served as managing director of World City AS, a financial holding company based in Oslo.
Activism In July 2012, Alper launched her blog—Call Me Hannah—where she spoke about causes important to her: animal welfare, habitat destruction, and the natural environment; within the year, her blog had received 100,000 page-views.
Ashok Swain, ed.,Diasporas, Armed Conflicts and Peacebuilding in their Homelands (Uppsala University, Department of Peace and Conflict Research, 2007).
Alerted by the disappearance of the 1774 Massachusetts rebellion from history texts, Raphael explored the underpinnings of our national storytelling.
His earlier books, Scorcher (2007) and Running from the Storm (2001), were critical of the Australian Government's efforts, especially in relation to the Kyoto Protocol.
A number of reviewers point out that most of the scientists profiled in the book do not actually deny climate change.
Louis Literary Award, granted to the "most important writers of our time" to celebrate "the contributions of literature in enriching our lives".
Murray Schafer Arcana Editions Listen Schafer portrait by David New (6:00) (2009) Leonardo Acoustic Ecology and the Soundscape Bibliography Includes R.
She has gained recognition for her work with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), her writing on human rights and development, and for founding the Journal of Human Development and Capabilities.
Other collections and awards De Fréine's poetry has been widely anthologised and has won many additional awards, including the Patrick Kavanagh Award (1994) and the British Comparative Literature Association Translation Award (1999).
Leggett is winner of the first Hillary Laureate for International Leadership in Climate Change (2009), a Gothenburg Prize (2015), the first non-Dutch winner of a Royal Dutch Honorary Sustainability Award (2016) and the Blue Planet Prize (2025).
Career Journalist Barnes began his career in journalism working as a reporter for The Lowell Sun in Lowell, Massachusetts.
A collection of Le Guin's works was published by the Library of America in 2016, an honor only rarely given to living writers.
These terms describe his proposal for a "cap and dividend" program modeled on the Alaska Permanent Fund, which Barnes maintains will reduce greenhouse emissions and create a citizens dividend for all Americans.
She was also an inaugural member of the Women Divers Hall of Fame and SSI's Platinum Pro Divers, those with more than 5000 dives; Scarr has logged over 7000 dives.
He was speechwriter for Australian Prime Minister John Howard's first environment minister, Robert Hill.
Devra Lee Davis (born June 7, 1946) is an American epidemiologist, toxicologist, and author of three books about environmental hazards.
God's earth our home: A resource for congregational study and action on environmental and economic justice.
Her Adventures in the Anthropocene: A Journey to the Heart of the Planet We Made won the 2015 Royal Society Winton Prize for Science Books, making her the first woman to win the prize outright.
Criticism In his essay "Social Anarchism or Lifestyle Anarchism: An Unbridgeable Chasm", Murray Bookchin directed criticism from an anarchist point of view at Zerzan's anti-civilizational and anti-technological perspective.
Bownocker Medal (Orton Award), from the Geological Sciences Department of Ohio State University, 1984.[1] Honorary positions and achievements Hsu was elected a Member of the U.
Kawaguchi's Natural Farming The natural farming method of Masanobu Fukuoka uses no fertilizers or chemicals and very little water, allowing crops and weeds to grow freely, requiring a minimum of human intervention.
Raising Elijah: Protecting Our Children in an Age of Environmental Crisis (2011, Merloyd Lawrence Books) ISBN 978-0-7382-1399-6 Awards and honors 1997 – Named a Ms.
2005 President, Kenneth Hsu Corporation of Integrated Hydrologic Circuit Technology & Development, Beijing, China.
Wilson Award for Literary Science Writing, Gold medal winner for best general nonfiction in the Florida Book Awards, and named a best book of 2015 by NPR's Science Friday, The Boston Globe, the Tampa Bay Times, the Miami Herald and Kirkus Reviews.
In 1927, however, he was diagnosed with tuberculosis and left the university to move to the western desert, believing the drier air would improve his condition.
Between 1989 and 1994, Gilding served as the executive director of Greenpeace Australia and, later, Greenpeace International.
Melo is a member of the National Book Critics Circle and has written about Tom Wolfe for the NBCC blog.
He is a critic of the temperature record of the past 1000 years and the data quality of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies.
The process of growing up is depicted as seeing beyond narrow choices the protagonists are presented with by society.
Ashok Swain, The Environmental Trap: The Ganges River Diversion, Bangladeshi Migration and Conflicts in India (Uppsala: Department of Peace and Conflict Research, 1996).
Gilbert embraced their views and, particularly after Cecil's death in World War I, became one of the foremost distributists and the newspaper whose care he inherited from Cecil, which ultimately came to be named G.
In 2005, against the backdrop of renewed UK government interest in nuclear power, Lovelock again publicly announced his support for nuclear energy, stating, "I am a Green, and I entreat my friends in the movement to drop their wrongheaded objection to nuclear energy".
Single species studies Chadwick's research involves multi-year projects of extended close observation in species habitats, radio collar tracking, mapping, and studies of community relationships.
"Belief in the paranormal: Probability judgements, illusory control, and the 'chance baseline shift'".
John Lander Harper (27 May 1925 – 22 March 2009) was a British biologist, specializing in ecology and plant population biology.
Hiaasen's books for young readers feature environmental themes, eccentric casts and adventure-filled plots.
Anthony's second book, The Elephant Whisperer, published by Pan Macmillan, tells the story of his adventures and relationship with a rescued herd of African elephants.
In 2009, Flannery called for an inquiry into population growth in Australia, to better elucidate the potential environmental impacts of the country's growing population.
In 1981, Panwar was transferred to Delhi, as the head of Project Tiger, a project conceptualised in 1973, for the protection of tiger population in India.
Panwar established the institute into a full-fledged learning centre with specialised focus on wildlife biology, management, and extension.
"A representação da mulher em Shame, de Salman Rushdie, e O deus das pequenas coisas, de Arundathi Roy".
After graduating from Ashland High School in northern Wisconsin, Greenfield attended the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse, graduating with a Bachelor of Science degree in biology.
Richard radioed Louis for a new, aluminium boat, which the National Geographic Society was happy to supply.
Previously she was a professor of sustainable entrepreneurship at Utrecht University and professor of environmental management at Erasmus University.
He also set up the Verification Technology Information Centre (VERTIC), a technical think tank with the aim to demonstrate how arms control treaties could be verified, and served part-time as its first executive director for four years (1985–1989) during the tail end of the Cold War.
While Wohlleben advocates for animal welfare and has raised awareness about the treatment of animals, and has stated that "It's okay to eat plants.
Collom moved back to the US after his discharge from the military but soon returned to Germany for a brief time to get married.
Before the publication of the first book in 1996, there were virtually no family homestead settlements in Russia.
He organized the readers' conference in Irkutsk Central Scientific Library named after Molchanov-Sibirsky.
She is member of the board of directors at Royal Dutch Shell and a member of the Social-Economic Council.
With the expansion of knowledge intensive professions, ever more persons move into positions of experts—for some issues, some of the time.
In environmental ethics in particular, Weston argues that we stand at the very beginning of our exploration.
His children's book, Blue Planet, was the first children's book to receive the Icelandic Literary Prize and has been published in 30 countries.
By the time he completed his PhD in chemistry at the University of Hannover in 1985, he had assumed leadership of Greenpeace Chemistry.
Richie received the Carnegie-Whitney Grant from the American Library Association under the direction of Jennifer France of American College of the Building Arts to compile "The Essential Wooden Boat Building Reading List".
Career and writing Leonard transitioned from acting to writing, publishing her first book, Beetle Boy, in 2016.
Brunner is credited with coining the term "worm" (in computing) and predicting the emergence of computer viruses in his 1975 novel The Shockwave Rider, in which he used the term to describe software that reproduces itself across a computer network.
Randers' research interests are on climate issues, scenario planning and system dynamics, especially on the topics of sustainable development, climate change and global warming mitigation.
A tapeworm he sent to a parasitologist following one trip was revealed to be a new species, and was later named Burtiela flanneryi after him.
hc Günter Altner Archived 4 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine, chernobylcongress.org Nachruf auf Günter Altner, obituary, Öko-Institut, 16 December 2011 (in German) Prof.
Redmond O'Hanlon, a Times Literary Supplement correspondent said that "Flannery tells his beautiful story in plain language, science popularising at its antipodean best".
He was awarded the Environmental Journalist of the Year award in 2008 and 2009 at Press Gazette's Environmental Journalism Awards.
Publications The Great Bear Rainforest: Canada's Forgotten Coast, by Ian McAllister and Karen McAllister with Cameron Young.
Pieter Winsemius (born 7 March 1942) is a retired Dutch politician of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) and businessman.
He led the public affairs groups and ex-workers to force the company collect 290 tonnes of mercury waste disposed in and around the factory site and send back to the United States for permanent retirement in 2003.
Books Are We Screwed?, Bloomsbury, 2017 The Petroleum Papers: Inside the Far-Right Conspiracy to Cover Up Climate Change, Greystone Books, 2022 Personal life Dembicki is based in Brooklyn, New York.
Vasily Belov, the USSR State Prize (1981) and the State Prize of the Russian Federation (2003) laureate, was also a recipient of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour (1982), the Order of Lenin (1984), the Order "For Merit to the Fatherland", 4th class (2003) and the Order of Honour (2003).
She is a leading proponent of localization as an antidote to the problems arising from globalization, and founded the International Alliance for Localization (IAL) in 2014.
While at school, he regularly contributed fiction and poetry to The Doon School Weekly (then edited by Seth) and founded the magazine History Times along with Guha.
Reaction time Living in the Hothouse Why vs Why: Nuclear Power A Voice of Reason: Reflections on Australia Bigger or Better?
Honours In the 2015 New Year Honours, Harrow was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to the dramatic arts.
She was educated in a Catholic convent in Günzburg and later attended school in Georgia and Virginia after her family relocated to the United States in 1959.
Weak evidence of carry-over effects of overwinter climate and habitat productivity on spring arrival of migratory songbirds at a northern stopover site.
After the army he worked in one of the Molotov factories, then in 1956 moved back to Vologda where he started contributing to the regional Communard newspaper.
and British extraterritorial operations have consistently whitewashed these nations' actions in order to present them as having benevolent motives in either spreading democracy or, in older instances, spreading Christianity; by criticizing these accounts, he seeks to correct them.
He was made assistant professor in 1899, associate professor in 1911, professor in 1918, and professor emeritus in 1937.
But the minute she sees a black man who she does not respect or who she has a slight thought against, she weaponized race like she had been trained by the Aryan Nation.", referring to the incident involving Christian Cooper being falsely accused of threatening the life of the unrelated Amy Cooper.
Changes in other portions of the record did not exceed 0.03 °C; it made no discernible difference to the global mean anomalies.
He has divided this period into three periods: "Marxist self-criticism" (1965–1983), post-modern (1983–1991) and the hyper-modern period (from 1991 on).
It may be attractive for some scientists to use their celebrity status in the media as means of gaining acceptance for their findings or for their preferred fields of study.
Some environmentalists feel that programmes like Attenborough's give a false picture of idyllic wilderness and do not do enough to acknowledge that such areas are increasingly encroached upon by humans.
Ndyakira Ntamuhiira Amooti (1955 or 1956 – 25 August 1999) was a Ugandan children's writer, journalist and environmentalist, awarded the Global 500 Roll of Honour and winner of the Goldman Environment Prize.
He was one of India's most respected wildlife experts and conservationists, having produced and narrated documentaries on India's natural habitat for such media as the BBC, Animal Planet, Discovery and National Geographic.
Queenie Cookson, for example, is a character in Breath who also appears in Shallows, Minimum of Two and in two of the Lockie Leonard books.
Career Writing Richie's bylines include Southern Living, Bonefish & Tarpon Trust Journal, Garden & Gun, Oxford American, Gastronomica, and Nieman Storyboard.
(in French) Un extrait de Culture-monde: réponse à une société désorientée sur la webtélé de Jacques Languirand: Les repères de Languirand Europe's Times and Unknown Waters, Cluj-Napoca, Braşoveanu, Narcisa (April 2009).
He is a critic of subsidies to rural Canada, and has criticized Ontario Hydro's actions and projects and their effects on Canada's environment.
Bhagat died on July 7, 2017, in La Verne, California, where he had lived the last years of his life.
Through his career spanning over 45 years, he has been associated with major media houses like Business India, Businessworld, The Telegraph, India Today and The Pioneer.
Readers come away entertained and also with the belief, not entirely illusory, that they have actually learned something" Crichton's works were frequently cautionary, his plots often portrayed scientific advancements going awry, commonly resulting in worst-case scenarios.
In 2022, Hasan received the International Women of Courage Award from the United States Department of State.
Learning the Chant Poem an excerpt from Old Faithful: 18 Writers Present Their Favorite Writing Assignments.
She participated in the creation of the free school at the Freightliners City Farm and published her first work, while teaching at a comprehensive school in Hackney.
Václav Havel Library The Václav Havel Library, located in Prague, is a charitable organization founded by Dagmar Havlová, Karel Schwarzenberg and Miloslav Petrusek on 26 July 2004.
Miyazaki collaborated directly with Hisaishi on the soundtrack from early in production; Hisaishi wrote an "image album" of pieces inspired by the story, which were reworked as production continued.
In August 1962 Savitri signed the Cotswold Agreement which established the World Union of National Socialists (WUNS), and attended Colin Jordan's Gloucestershire conference.
In 2009, Shmelev was interviewed for the European Union Euronews Channel on the issues of renewable energy and sustainable development Sustainable waste management Shmelev, S.E.; Powell, J.R.
The letter was criticized by opponents who labeled the signers as "antisemites"; many of them later signed what is considered their answer — the "Letter of Forty-Two".
Summary chapter for Salmon in the Trees, a book on the Tongass National Forest, Alaska, Amy Gulick, photographer.
She also informed Australian trade unions about the medical and military dangers of uranium mining, which led to the three-year banning of the mining and export of uranium.
Cap and Dividend "Sky Trust" was rebranded as "Cap and Dividend" in advance of the 2008 elections in order to raise its profile.
With Liberty and Dividends for All: How to Save Our Middle-Class When Jobs Don’t Pay Enough (2014) See also Politics of global warming References Further reading Barnes, Peter (September 18, 2008).
1980: Breeding biology of bulbuls, Pycnonotus cafer and P.luteolus (Class: Aves; family: Pycnonotidae) with special reference to their ecological isolation.
Cramer was Minister of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment in the Fourth Balkenende cabinet for the PvdA.
The Kirkus reviewer sums up the book as "Sometimes rueful, often oblique, but provocative and highly readable." Personal life She married Roger Marks in 1976, and they jointly chose the name Diski.
Publications Da Cunha is the author of several books and publications on environmental and water resources issues.
In 2021, she received multiple scholarships including the Orvis 50/50 award to attend the Certified Fly Fishing Guide program at Colorado Mountain College.
He is best known for his research and advocacy related to marine reserves and the environmental impact of fishing.
If, unlike Ellul's, Charbonneau's work was not fully known to the public at the time, Ellul knew exactly how much he owed to Charbonneau.
He recounted his scientific fieldwork and experiences with local tribal people in New Guinea in Throwim Way Leg (1999).
She has written features for Land Magazine on land-use traditions, hunting leases, and wildlife conservation.
This packet included Bhagat's book, a two-session adult study guide for the book, and additional resources.
Her later television performances in Britain was as Kavanagh's wife Lizzie in the series Kavanagh QC, also starring Thaw.
She made her literary debut in 2012 with the children's novel Over grensen ("Across the Border"), a thriller set in 1942, where the protagonists Sarah and Daniel are Jews trying to escape murderous Nazi persecution during the German occupation of Norway and find their way to neutral Sweden.
Career After leaving college, Lymbery volunteered for several months at an RSPB reserve, Titchwell Marsh, Norfolk.
Education and qualifications Tertzakian has an undergraduate degree in Geophysics from the University of Alberta, and a graduate degree in Econometrics from the University of Southampton, U.K.
Altner spoke in favor of a nuclear power phase-out and against the planning of a nuclear power plant in Wyhl.
His wife Nell was also a politician who served as State Secretary for Education and Sciences from 5 November 1982 until 7 November 1989.
The Heterogeneity of Soil surfaces and its Role in Determining the Establishment of Plants from Seed.
After realizing that dive training agencies did not provide critical information about living coral to their students, she founded Action in Behalf of Coral in 2005.
The American evangelist Billy Graham released a statement saying, "The evangelical world has lost one of its greatest spokesmen, and I have lost one of my close personal friends and advisors.
James Ephraim Lovelock (26 July 1919 – 26 July 2022) was an English independent scientist, environmentalist and futurist.
References External links Official website Gaia Vince on Journalisted Guardian science podcast episode featuring Vince (2014) Library resources in your library and in other libraries by Gaia Vince
The novel documents the efforts of a team of scientists investigating an extraterrestrial microorganism that clots human blood, causing death within two minutes.
Kawaguchi aspired to become a painter and attended Tennoji Art Institute, whilst continuing to work at the family's farm.
For the Discovery Channel, Suzuki also produced "Yellowstone to Yukon: The Wildlands Project" in 1997.
Climate and environmental work Da Cunha was a member of the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) of the United Nations (1999-2001) and a Lead Author of the chapter on Water Resources of the Third Assessment Report of the IPCC, published in 2001.
As a teenager in the 1960s, Megre occasionally visited a monk called Father Feodorit at the Trinity-Sergiev Monastery, in Sergiev Posad, north-east of Moscow.
External links Interview with Peter Berg (by Ron Chepesiuk, for Sixties Radicals, Then and Now: Candid Conversations with Those Who Shaped the Era)
Construction for the museum began in March 2000, and it officially opened on October 1, 2001, featuring the short film Kujiratori.
Among other things, the Hermann Scheer Foundation organises symposia and matinees, operates the information platform Energieallee A 7 in cooperation with Eurosolar and publishes various publications.
He has written numerous obituaries of botanists, conservationists, and naturalists, including Oliver Rackham, David Bellamy, Hugh Synge, and Eva Crane.
Critics dissatisfied with the second part often make an exception of chapters 22–24, which go beyond recreation of a medieval world to give a disturbing and surreal description of the site of the fallen city.
Stephens has authored, co-authored, and edited twelve books, including International Courts and Environmental Protection (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2009).
It documents the public relations information put out by Timberlands West Coast Limited in order to win public support for logging of native forests on the West Coast of New Zealand.
Peter Stephen Berg (October 1, 1937 – July 28, 2011) was an environmental writer, best known as an advocate of the concept of bioregionalism.
Local ranchers hated these predators because of livestock losses, but Leopold came to respect the animals.
Looking through the crates into her eyes, I reflected on how Aldo Leopold once took part in that policy, then eloquently challenged it.
NATO career (1983–1999) Between 1983 and 1999 Da Cunha lived in Brussels where he served as Administrator of the Scientific and Environmental Affairs Division of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Hockey stick graph controversy In 2002, McIntyre became interested in climate science after a leaflet from the Canadian government warning of the dangers of global warming was delivered to his residence.
Career Dembicki started his career as climate journalist, in 2009, joining The Tyee as an intern, starting employment there in 2010.
Recently, Leggett has spoken in depth about the great dangers of allowing carbon assets to be viewed at zero risk of impairment if promised action on climate change does take place.
Lowe says nuclear power is too expensive, with insurmountable problems associated with waste disposal and weapons proliferation.
Eaters of the Dead is narrated as a scientific commentary on an old manuscript and was inspired by two sources.
Anderson.) In terms of concepts of human involvement with the ecology, as well as some of the economic and social concepts, the Ecotopia books are related to what is known as the sustainability movement.
Directorial debut In 1977, Miyazaki was chosen to direct his first animated television series, Future Boy Conan; he directed 24 of the 26 episodes, which were broadcast in 1978.
She revisited Earthsea, publishing Tehanu in 1990: coming eighteen years after The Farthest Shore, during which Le Guin's views had developed considerably, the book was grimmer in tone than the earlier works in the series, and challenged some ideas presented therein.
Hermann Scheer (29 April 1944 – 14 October 2010) was a Social Democrat member of the German Bundestag (parliament), President of Eurosolar (European Association for Renewable Energy) and General Chairman of the World Council for Renewable Energy.
The Parish Ministries Commission of the Church of the Brethren General Board commissioned Bhagat to write about racism and Christianity, culminating in his 1995 two-part work, Racism & the Church: Overcoming the Idolatry.
External links Aldo Leopold Foundation Leopold Heritage Group The Aldo Leopold Archives Digitized archival materials held by the University of Wisconsin–Madison Archives.
She later transitioned to digital media production roles with the National Theatre and Shakespeare's Globe.
Moore attended DMWC meetings, and was part of the committee when its name was changed to the Greenpeace Foundation.
He graduated in 1974, from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering of the Czech Technical University in Prague and in the same year co-founded the Brontosaurus Movement focused on nature conservation within the framework of the then official Socialist Youth Union.
Ginjaar also served as a Member of the Scientific Council for Government Policy from 1 July 1973 until 19 December 1977.
Altner had briefly been a professor of human biology at the University of Education Schwäbisch Gmünd, subsequently focussed on theology, his second area of education, and was a professor of protestant theology at the University of Koblenz and Landau for 22 years.
Bhagat participated in the 29 November 1970 ceremony which founded the Church of North India as a representative of the Church of the Brethren.
New Matilda, 2015, https://web.archive.org/web/20150315062926/https://newmatilda.com/2015/02/21/nuclear-energy-dirty-unsafe-and-uneconomic-environmental-scientist Renewing renewables: busting myths about sustainable energy.
As the white and black daisies have contrary effects on the planet's overall albedo and temperature, changes in their relative populations stabilise the planet's climate and keep the temperature within an optimal range despite fluctuations in energy from the star.
Collaborations with environmental scientists The Oxford Companion to Australian Literature describes O'Connor as "...
From 1968 bis 1971 he was a director of studies at the Protestant Academy in Mülheim an der Ruhr in research on the relationship between religion and science.
Townsend ISBN 1-4051-1117-8 (formerly known as Ecology: individuals, populations and communities, three editions (1986, 1990 and 1996), with Michael Begon and Colin R.
Honours Commonwealth honours Scholastic University degrees Chancellor, visitor, governor, rector and fellowships Honorary degrees Memberships and fellowships Personal life Lovelock married Helen Hyslop in 1942.
(book 5) The Book of Kin (book 6) The Energy of Life (book 7) The New Civilisation (book 8, part I) The Rites of Love (book 8, part II) Anasta (book 10) External links VMegre.com - Official Site of the Author Official Twitter channel Official Facebook profile "Anastasia" Foundation (rus)
Savitri Devi took employment teaching in France during the 1960s, spending her summer holidays with friends at Berchtesgaden.
These four novels Stand on Zanzibar (1968), The Jagged Orbit (1969), The Sheep Look Up (1972) and The Shockwave Rider (1975), have been called the "Club of Rome Quartet", named after the Club of Rome, whose 1972 report The Limits to Growth warned of the dire effects of overpopulation.
Alistair Beaton (born 1947) is a playwright and satirist, journalist, radio presenter, novelist and television writer.
In a 2008 interview, she said she considered the 1979 version as "the only good adaptation to film" of her work to date.
Scheer however believed Ypsilanti's strategies would result in a big triumph of his party at the federal elections 2009.
Zerzan's website states that he started the show in 2000 although the recorded archive of shows on the site only goes back to 2006.
The book was widely criticized by biologists and forest scientists for using strong anthropomorphic and teleological language such as describing trees as having friendships and registering fear, love and pain.
During the mid-1920s, the fashion in photography was pictorialism, which strove to imitate paintings with soft focus, diffused light, and other techniques.
Heineken Prize for Environmental Sciences (1990) and the Royal Geographical Society Discovery Lifetime award (2001).
One of the projects he is involved with is Shared Worlds, an annual two-week program that aims to teach creative writing to teenagers.
Flannery and other sacked commissioners later formed the independent Climate Council, which continues to communicate independent climate science to the Australian public.
She has spent the better part of 20 years exploring these topics through books, journalism, communication support to academics and civil society organisations, non-fiction creative writing, and podcasting.
Callum Michael Roberts is a British marine conservation biologist, oceanographer, science communicator, author and research scholar at the University of Exeter.
He obtained an additional degree in development studies at the University of Louvain (UCLouvain) and, subsequently, earned his PhD degree in 1996 at Colorado State University on the topic of international environmental politics.
Her second book, Transcendence: How Humans Evolved Through Fire, Language, Beauty, and Time, was published in 2019.
Their first child (a son) was born with brain damage, living only five days without coming home from the hospital.
Work with The Land Institute The Land Institute has explored alternatives in appropriate technology, environmental ethics, and education, but a research program in sustainable agriculture eventually became central to its work.
She was described by Lovelock as a socialist and suffragist, who was also anti-vaccine, and did not allow Lovelock to receive his smallpox inoculation as a child.
In 1985 this national organisation and many others, she founded around the world were awarded the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize.
An obituary in Christianity Today reported that his death was due to age-related complications and that he had been in discomfort for several weeks.
From there he went on to Brandeis University intending to become a psychologist, but after one course found it "unbelievably dull" and soon became hooked on philosophy.
Wilson Award for Literary Science Writing from the PEN America Center, and The Sound of the Sea: Seashells and the Fate of the Oceans (2021).
From 1990 to 1991, Bedřich Moldan was the first Minister of Environment of the Czech Republic, then part of Czechoslovakia.
She unsuccessfully ran from the Khunti Lok Sabha Constituency, Jharkhand in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections as an Aam Aadmi Party candidate.
He was also the Brethren representative to the National Council of the Churches of Christ in the USA's Eco-Justice Working Group.
After the passage of the Term Permit Act, he began siting and surveying locations in Arizona for private recreational development.
The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America named her its 20th Grand Master in 2003: she was the second, and at the time of death one of only six, women to receive that honor.
She summarized her research into health effects of cell phones in her 2010 book, Disconnect: The Truth about Cell Phone Radiation, What the Industry Has Done to Hide It, and How to Protect Your Family.
Her work for Garden & Gun includes "A Cake of Truly Historic Proportions", a culinary history piece about Martha Washington's Great Cake.
In April 2012, he was posthumously awarded honorary Doctor of Science degree by College of Agriculture, Engineering and Science, University of KwaZulu-Natal.
He is the Chief Scientific Advisor to Blue Marine Foundation and an Ambassador for World Wide Fund for Nature.
Her early career was rooted in the music industry, where Leonard managed bands like The Divine Comedy and ran Setanta Records, an independent label.
In her final years, Le Guin largely turned away from fiction, and produced a number of essays, poems, and some translation.
Krishen's second book Jungle Trees of Central India, published by Penguin India, was released in 2014.
Kennedy Library Foundation, a New New South Editorial Fellowship at Duke University, and the Rivendell Writer-in-Residency from the Sewanee School of Letters.
Copenhagen Consensus Lomborg and the Environmental Assessment Institute founded the Copenhagen Consensus in 2002, which seeks to establish priorities for advancing global welfare using methodologies based on the theory of welfare economics.
Her parents inculcated in her an interest in sustainable development and organic agriculture from a young age.
Michael Braungart (born 1958) is a German chemist who advocates that humans can make a positive instead of a negative environmental impact by redesigning industrial production and therefore that dissipation is not waste.
He subsequently began working on climate change more seriously and shifted to campaigning and publicly communicating about climate change from the 2000s.
Ginjaar continued to comment on political affairs until his death four months later at the age of 75.
"I note that Lawrence Solomon continues to advocate road tolls, and the privatization of the TTC (like London) for Toronto's transportation system." Bruce Campion-Smith In his columns and his book Toronto Sprawls: A History, he blames government policy for exacerbating and encouraging sprawl.
Fukuoka estimated these to be 10% while others, such as Yoshikazu Kawaguchi, have found attempting to strictly follow Fukuoka's techniques led to crop failures and require many years of adaption to make the principles work.
The Cabinet Van Agt–Wiegel was replaced by the Cabinet Van Agt II following the cabinet formation of 1981 on 11 September 1981.
Early life and education Abbey was born in Indiana, Pennsylvania on January 29, 1927, to Mildred Postlewait and Paul Revere Abbey.
He apologized for engaging in vandalism of field trials of genetically engineered crops, stating that "anti-science environmentalism became increasingly inconsistent with my pro-science environmentalism with regard to climate change".
His argument, that human domination and destruction of nature follows from social domination between humans, was a breakthrough position in the growing field of ecology.
Pincott shares the same debilitating and progressive Autoimmune Disease with Canadian singer Celine Dion, called Stiff Person Syndrome.
Knopf, 1976; University of Nebraska Press, 1986) Tree Talk: The People and Politics of Timber (Island Press, 1981) Cash Crop: An American Dream?
She gave a motivational speech for ME to WE, served as an ambassador for Free the Children, spoke at the World Wildlife Fund's Toronto event for Earth Hour, and raised CA$975 (in pennies) from schoolchildren for Free the Children.
Another novel, Fire (1948), and a historical work, Ordeal By Hunger (1936), also evoked environmental catastrophes.
In 1969, he was transferred to South Mandla which covered the forest areas of Kanha which had a sparse head count of 30 tigers and Barasinghas (swamp deer) numbering 66.
Other publications which have featured his work include: Defenders of Wildlife, Audubon, The Huffington Post, Backpacker, TV Guide, The Smithsonian Magazine, Sports Illustrated, Reader's Digest, and Outside.
Tertzakian is an adjunct professor with the Haskayne School of Business at the University of Calgary.
Wes Jackson established and served as chair of one of the United States' first environmental studies programs at California State University, Sacramento.
PMID 24148162.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: DOI inactive as of July 2025 (link) https://web.archive.org/web/20130402213834/http://www.link2media.co.za/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=6250&Itemid=12
In 1986, Norberg-Hodge and LEDeG were awarded the Right Livelihood Award (also known as the 'Alternative Nobel Prize') in recognition of these efforts.
He argued that since war caused countries to halt the democratic process, climate change (which he likened in gravity to war) should as well.
Jackson stepped down from the presidency of The Land Institute in 2016, but still works in the Ecosphere Studies program.
Jones and others were arrested during the protests, but the district attorney later dropped the charges against Jones.
Gallen, University of Edinburgh, University of Buckingham, and is the author of multiple books and articles on sustainability and ecological economics.
2012 Grand Prix de la Biographie Politique, Escape From Camp 14 2013 Dayton Literary Peace Prize, finalist, Escape From Camp 14 References External links Blaine Harden, official website Appearances on C-SPAN
Jones apologized after social media backlash, writing that "The suffering of the people of Gaza — especially the children — is not a punch line." Among the critics of his comment was Maryland Democratic Senator Chris Van Hollen.
ISBN 978-0262195454 Wouters, J.; Bruyninckx, H.; Keukeleire, S.; Corthout, T.; Basu, S.; and Schunz, S.
He does, however, feel that Australia should and will have to supply its uranium to those other countries that do not have access to renewables like Australia does.
In the same year, he was honored by the Black Church Committee in appreciation for his published works on the topic of race.
Orca Book Publishers, February 2019 References External links Pacific Wild official website Ian McAllister at IMDb Great Bear Books, Orca Book Publishers Profile at Greystone Books See also Conservation biology Environmentalism Bear conservation
She specializes in aesthetics, philosophy of music, nineteenth and twentieth-century continental philosophy, and philosophy of emotion.
Peter Weingart (born 5 June 1941 in Marburg) is a German professor emeritus in sociology and former director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Research, Bielefeld.
Founder of EPEA International Umweltforschung GmbH in Hamburg, Germany, and co-founder of MBDC McDonough Braungart Design Chemistry in Charlottesville, Virginia, Dr.
This knowledge and an untiring energy he dedicated to the upbuilding of the mathematical library at Brown University.
In 1982, she became associate professor and in 1988 Professor for History of Mathematics at the University of Stuttgart.
He then became an assistant in the history of mathematics and natural sciences at the University of Mainz, where he received in 1998 his Habilitation.
She was born and lived in Göttingen in Germany (where her parents worked at the university) until 1908.
Corry has done research on the development of modern algebra and number theory (including computational number theory done by Harry Vandiver, D.
Dickson was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1913, and was also a member of the American Philosophical Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the London Mathematical Society, the French Academy of Sciences and the Union of Czech Mathematicians and Physicists.
To support his family, Gupta took a teaching job instead of immediately continuing doctoral studies.
Jakob Steiner had proposed Steiner's conic problem of enumerating the number of conic sections tangent to each of five given conics and had answered it incorrectly.
In 1954, Boyer was the recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship to further his work in the history of science, in particular, the history of the study of rainbows.
Michio Yano, a former doctoral student of Yabuuchi, emphasized strong similarities between Yabuuchi's working methods and the methodology of the mathematician and astronomer Otto Neugebauer: In many respects I found similarities between Neugebauer and Yabuuti.
He died on 4 April 1925 in Elmside, Cambridge, and is buried at the Parish of the Ascension Burial Ground in Cambridge.
Fowler was also the translator of René Thom's book Structural Stability and Morphogenesis from French (Stabilité structurelle et morphogénèse) into English.
At the presentation of his portrait to Brown University the head of the mathematics department, Professor Clarence Raymond Adams said of him: "The instincts of the bibliophile were also his from early years.
Isabella Grigoryevna Bashmakova (Russian: Изабелла Григорьевна Башмакова; January 3, 1921 – July 17, 2005) was a Russian historian of mathematics.
Ortiz, editor (1988) The Works of Julio Rey Pastor, 8 volumes, London: The Humboldt Library Further reading Gasca, Ana Millán (1988).
Biography Siegmund-Schultze studied mathematics at the Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, where he received his doctorate in 1979 on the history of functional analysis.
Neumann was a long-standing supporter of the British Society for the History of Mathematics, whose Neumann Prize is named in his honour.
He then studied mathematics at the University of Essex, where he graduated in 1970, and at the University of Warwick, where he obtained his master's degree in 1973.
Since 2000 he has been a professor of history of science at the University of Agder in Kristiansand, Norway.
After his return in February 1912, Fujiwara worked closely with his colleague Tsuruichi Hayashi, who in 1911 founded the Tohoku Mathematical Journal.
Albert in 1922, and the procedure is known now as the Cayley–Dickson construction of composition algebras.
Ruan Yuan (Chinese: 阮元; 1764–1849), courtesy name Boyuan (伯元), art name Yuntai (芸臺), posthumous name Wenda (文達), was a Chinese historian, politician, and writer of the Qing dynasty who was the most prominent Chinese scholar during the first half of the 19th century.
See also Criticism of non-standard analysis References External links Joseph Dauben at the Mathematics Genealogy Project
He proposes a novel "principle of explanatory surplus", likening a successful theoretician to a successful entrepreneur.
Along with Georges Dossin, he founded the Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, an association of orientalists, which hosts international events.
One of his doctoral students was the physicist and aphorist Georg Christoph Lichtenberg, who became a colleague of his at Göttingen.
While a professor, he did research in industrial quality control and other areas, and also authored textbooks.
He ended his teaching career at Northwestern State University, which houses his collection of Gauss-related material, believed to be the largest collection of its kind in the world.
Starting in 1886, he became, as a result of winning a then-customary competition, Professor for Algebra and Analytic Geometry at the University of Genoa, where he stayed for the remainder of his career.
He held the position of Professor of Mathematics at Queen's University of Ireland for forty years, from 1853 until reaching retirement age in 1893.
Selected publications The development of Newtonian calculus in Britain, 1700-1800, Cambridge University Press, 1989 (paperback 2003).
Aykut, Presses de Sciences Po, 2015) She is the editor of: La Formation polytechnicienne, 1794–1994 (with Bruno Belhoste and Antoine Picon, Dunod, 1994) La France des X.
ISBN 1-56858-139-4 The Mystery of the Aleph: Mathematics, the Kabbalah, and the Search for Infinity, 2000.
In 1839, Ludwig Adolph Sohncke (the father of Leonhard Sohncke) translated the original into German as Geschichte der geometrie, hauptsachlich mit bezug auf die neueren methoden.
In New York, he worked for the Socialist Workers Party (US) (SWP) and wrote a number of articles for the American Trotskyist press and other radical outlets.
He is best known for his discovery of previously unknown texts in the Archimedes Palimpsest, and for his edition of Euclid's Elements that T.
In 1950, Struik published his Lectures on Classical Differential Geometry, which garnered praise from Ian R.
In the 1930s he wrote a history of Indian mathematics with Bibhutibhushan Datta, which became a standard work.
In the first section, he tackles the applications of linear algebra and matrix theory; algebraic constructions such as adjacency matrix and the incidence matrix and their applications are discussed in depth.
In 1895, he traveled to Europe, where he heard Sophus Lie lecture at Leipzig and Camille Jordan at Paris.
His doctoral dissertation was The History of the Idea of a Vectorial System to 1910, which was published as the book A History of Vector Analysis two years later.
At the University of Nantes, Dhombres was director of the Centre François Viète d'histoire et philosophie des sciences et des techniques from 1985 (when it was created) until 1995.
From 2002 to 2004 he was a visiting professor at TU Darmstadt and returned in 2004 to the University of Strasbourg.
He was appointed to the magistracy of Mirzapur in 1795 and was sent to Nagpur in 1799 to negotiate an allowance with the Raja of Berar.
She and her husband moved to Caltech in 1966, where she worked as a teacher again while completing her dissertation, with a year in Rome for her husband's postdoctorate.
Eves was a strong spokesman for the Mathematical Association of America, which he joined in 1942, and whose Northeast Section he founded.
He wrote 40 papers and books on the history of mathematics, which covered many topics and several periods.
In this seminal work, Locke outlined a basic working model for how Inca quipus recorded numbers using three types of knots: the overhand knot, the figure-eight knot, and eight types of long knots.
Investigation of the Stability of Lindstedt's Equation Using Shtokalo’s Method by Samuel Kohn contains a description of Shotkalo's method in English.
Works Complementi di analisi algebrica elementare, 1909 Lezione di geometria proiettiva, 3rd edition, 2nd reprinting, 1920 Vita matematica napoletana, Napoli; volume I.
He has written essays on the history of mathematics, for example, about Helmut Hasse, Hermann Minkowski, and Emil Artin.
ISBN 978-0-7923-1495-0 Computability: Turing, Gödel, Church, and Beyond (with Jack Copeland and Oron Shagrir), MIT Press, 2013.
Nicodemi is a mathematician and mathematics educator whose research interests range from wavelets to the history of mathematics.
Life and work Kjeldsen earned her doctorate in 1999 from Roskilde University under the supervision of Anders Hede Madsen.
She is also a senior fellow at the New York University Institute for the Study of the Ancient World.
From 1956 to 1963, Shtokalo was the head of the Department of History of Mathematics at the Institute of Mathematics, a part of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences.
Annette Imhausen (also known as Annette Warner, born 12 June 1970) is a German historian of mathematics known for her work on Ancient Egyptian mathematics.
In her will, she donated money to Queen's College Library for the preservation of mathematical history books.
David Herbert Fowler (28 April 1937 – 13 April 2004) was a historian of Greek mathematics who published work on pre-Eudoxian ratio theory (using the process he called anthyphairesis).
Levin (died 2009) was a historian of ancient Greek music and mathematics, particularly known for her work on Nicomachus.
The classification is described by Daniel Corey as follows: He classifies them into 9 types of plane geometries, 27 in dimension 3, and more generally 3n in dimension n.
Author of the following papers, amongst others: "Method of deriving the Polar Equations of Dynamics & Hydrodynamics from direct physical considerations" – Dublin University Phil Transactions 1848.
Work and life Bronshtein taught at the Moscow State Technical University (MAMI), then the State College of Mechanical Engineering, on the Chair of Advanced Mathematics established in 1939.
Education and career Tobies grew up in East Germany, and studied mathematics and chemistry at Leipzig University.
In 1905 he gained his doctorate (DSc) for his thesis Networks of the Plane in Absolute Geometry and was promoted to lecturer.
Career After undergraduate studies in mathematics and philosophy at Cambridge, Gillies became a graduate student of Karl Popper and Imre Lakatos (his official PhD supervisor) at the London School of Economics, where he completed a PhD on the foundations of probability.
After leaving academia to raise a family in Norwich, she became a health research manager in the National Health Service, while continuing to work in the history of science as an independent scholar.
Hugues Charles Robert Méray (12 November 1835, in Chalon-sur-Saône, Saône-et-Loire – 2 February 1911, in Dijon) was a French mathematician.
Selected works with Michel Willem, Critical point theory and hamiltonian systems, Springer 1989 with Robert E.
Dick earned a doctorate from the University of Vienna, and a teaching credential in mathematics and physics, in 1934.
She has been the first chair of the Standing Committee for Gender Equality in Science (SCGES) from October 2021 to October 2025.
With Karl Scherer: "Approximationsprozesse und Intepolationsmethoden," BI Hochschultaschenbuch, Mannheim, 1968.
Howard Whitley Eves (10 January 1911, 6 June 2004) was an American mathematician, known for his work in geometry and the history of mathematics.
His dissertation, Translation Manifolds and the Converse of Abel's Theorem, was supervised by Bernard Saint-Donat.
From Brouwer to Hilbert, Oxford University Press, 1998, 165–167 (on Hilbert's formalism), 277–282 (on intuitionistic logic).
In addition to his numerous books, he also contributed highly recognized and popular historical articles to the American Mathematical Monthly.
From 2009 to 2012, Parshall was the Associate Dean for the Social Sciences in the College of Arts in Sciences at UVA, and from 2016 to 2019 she was the chair of the Corcoran Department of History.
References O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Abraham Seidenberg", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews Abraham Seidenberg at the Mathematics Genealogy Project
She returned to Oregon in 1966 as a doctoral student at the University of Oregon, and completed her Ph.D.
Niccolò Guicciardini Corsi Salviati (born 28 May 1957 in Florence) is an Italian historian of mathematics.
His wife, Ruth, had a leave of absence from her school for study at the Sorbonne, so the couple studied there for a year.
External links Collection of letters Dunnington exchanged with descendants of Gauss [1] Archived November 20, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
Alice Jeanne LaDuke (born June 27, 1938) is an American mathematician who specialized in mathematical analysis and the history of mathematics.
"Antisemitismus in der Weimarer Republik und die Lage jüdischer Mathematiker: Thesen und Dokumente zu einem wenig erforschten Thema (Anti-Semitism in the Weimar Republic and the situation of Jewish mathematicians: Theses and documents on a little-researched topic)".
His doctoral dissertation on Abraham de Moivre (Der Mathematiker Abraham de Moivre (1667–1754) was supervised by Helmuth Gericke and Karl Stein.
Uta Caecilia Merzbach (February 9, 1933 – June 27, 2017) was a German-American historian of mathematics who became the first curator of mathematical instruments at the Smithsonian Institution.
A Woodrow Wilson Scholar and Fulbright Scholar, he holds a master's degree in history from Harvard University and a 1971 Ph.D.
Dent & Sons, 1932) Mathematics in Aristotle (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1949) Notes Further reading Wardhaugh, Benjamin (2016).
Yabuuchi became in 1929 an assistant at Kyoto University and became in 1935 a consultant at the Kyoto Institute of Oriental Culture (now part of the Kyoto University Research Centre for the Cultural Sciences), later becoming a researcher there.
He attended the Universities of both Leipzig and Berlin, before receiving his doctorate from Leipzig in 1883.
David Hilbert and the Axiomatization of Physics (1898–1918): From Grundlagen der Geometrie to Grundlagen der Physik.
In 1871, he was appointed as an extraordinary professor at the University of Copenhagen, as well as becoming an editor of Matematisk Tidsskrift, a position he held for 18 years.
Selected publications Hermann Hankel (1863) Die Euler'schen Integrale bei unbeschränkter Variabilität des Argumentes, Voss, Leipzig.
Crowe's book about the history of the extraterrestrial life debate was highly praised, and was followed by a companion source book in 2008.
In 1948, he published an article, entitled "A Century's Balance Sheet", in which he criticized that part of Marxism which saw the "proletariat" as the revolutionary class.
In 2015, Docent Press published Schulte's dissertation as a book, Writing the History of Mathematical Notation: 1483–1700, edited by Albrecht Heeffer and Douglas Furman, including also an introduction by Heeffer, bibliographic notes by Furman, and two biographical sketches of Schulte.
José Augusto Sánchez Pérez (Madrid, 30 November 1882 – 13 November 1958) was a Spanish mathematician and member of the Spanish Royal Academy of Sciences.
However, this suggested history has been criticized by van der Waerden, who believed that books 1 through 4 were largely due to the much earlier Pythagorean school.
As successor to Otto Neugebauer in Brown's History of Mathematics Department (which Neugebauer established in 1947), Pingree numbered among his colleagues men of extraordinary learning, including Abraham Sachs and Gerald Toomer.
In 2002, She completed her doctorate in the history of mathematics at Mainz under the joint supervision of David E.
In 1959 he submitted the manuscript "Mathematical patterns of thought in the late seventeenth century" to Hoskin who submitted it to Archive for History of Exact Sciences for publication.
"Mario Pieri: the man, the mathematician, the teacher", (2010) in La Matematica nella Società e nella Cultura Rivista dell'Unione Matematica Italiana 3(3).
He was the first to give a systematic survey of Jewish literature down to the end of the eighteenth century, and to publish catalogues of the Hebrew books and manuscripts which are found in the public libraries of Europe.
Friedrich Otto Hultsch (22 July 1833 in Dresden – 6 April 1906 in Dresden) was a German classical philologist and historian of mathematics in antiquity.
In October 11, 1968, he coined the term software engineering in a lecture of that title given at the NATO Science Committee meeting in Garmisch, Germany, which has been in widespread use since, and has become a discipline in computer science.
S2CID 16646147., a very influential paper on compilers Baumann, Richard [in German]; Feliciano, Manuel; Bauer, Friedrich Ludwig; Samelson, Klaus (1964).
He has contributed pieces to The New York Times's Science and Book Reviews sections, The Los Angeles Times Op-Ed section, and Scientific American, and he has been interviewed on NPR's All Things Considered, and Interfaith Voices.
Rouse Ball, was a British mathematician, lawyer, and fellow at Trinity College, Cambridge, from 1878 to 1905.
After obtaining his PhD at the University of Heidelberg in 1851, he went to Berlin, where he eagerly followed the lectures of Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet; and upon his return to Heidelberg in 1853, he was appointed privat-docent at the university.
She has been involved in the summer program Mathpath since 2019, where she presents a two week series of history plenaries and teaches additional classes.
Selected publications Mechanistic images in geometric form: Heinrich Hertz's principles of mechanics, Oxford University Press 2005 The Prehistory of the Theory of Distributions, Studies in the History of Mathematics and the Physical Sciences, Volume 7, Springer Verlag 1982; Lützen, J.
EULERS Beiträge zum Funktionsbegriff (in German), Potsdam: Euler-Vortrag im Schlosstheater des Neuen Palais von Sanssouci, 21 May 1999 "Hilbert's Twenty-Fourth Problem" (PDF).
Springer, New York, Berlin, Heidelberg, Springer (Sources in the History of Mathematics and Physical Sciences, 9).
Siegfried Gottwald, Hans-Joachim Illgauds, Karl-Heinz Schlote (ed.): Encyclopedia of important mathematicians.
To prepare for his professorial duties, Fujiwara was sent to study from 1908 to 1911 in Göttingen, Paris and Berlin.
His six volume Mathematical Circles series, collecting humorous and interesting anecdotes about mathematicians, was recently reprinted by the MAA, who also published his two volume Great Moments in the History of Mathematics, and his autobiographical Mathematical Reminiscences in 2001.
Josif Zakharovich Shtokalo (Ukrainian: Йосип Захарович Штокало, romanized: Yosyp Zakharovych Shtokalo; November 16, 1897 – January 5, 1987) was a Ukrainian mathematician.
In 1988, by studying a scrap of Greek papyrus, Neugebauer discovered the most important single piece of evidence to date for the extensive transmission of Babylonian astronomy to the Greeks and for the continuing use of Babylonian methods for 400 years even after Ptolemy wrote the Almagest.
Her work on Karl Marx's mathematical manuscripts began in 1930s and may have had some influence on the study of non-standard analysis in China.
He took a professorship at the University of Munich in 1963, where he was appointed as the first Professor of the History of Science.
For this edition of Schulte's work, many instances of mathematical notation, hand-drawn by Schulte for her thesis, were replaced by digital reproductions of the original notations she discusses, showing each notation in its surrounding context.
First, he is said to have written a History of Theology, that discussed the Babylonian, Egyptian, and Greek ideas regarding the origins of the universe.
From 2000 to 2004, she was at the Dibner Institute for the History of Science and Technology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
She then studied at Girton College, Cambridge, gaining a PhD in 1929 under the supervision of Professor E.
Career and publications Nicodemi did her undergraduate studies at New York University, and completed her Ph.D.
Much of this work is collected in his book Mathematical Card Magic: Fifty-Two New Effects He has appeared in Brady Haran's Numberphile web series.
Fauvel was a visiting scholar in the Mathematics Department at Colorado College on several occasions, including one on a Fulbright Fellowship during the Winter and Spring of 1999.
She is a director of research for the French National Centre for Scientific Research, affiliated with the Centre Jean Pépin at the École normale supérieure (Paris).
References External links Colm Mulcahy at the Mathematics Genealogy Project official web page bi-monthly List of Card Colm columns written for the Mathematical Association of America
May Prize medals awarded by the International Commission on the History of Mathematics on 26 July 2021 at the International Congress for History and Philosophy of Science in Prague.
Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, New York 1976 (Sources in the History of Mathematics and Physical Sciences, 1).
Hofmann, bibliographic note and summary bibliography of his writings", Historia Mathematica 2(2): 147–152 doi:10.1016/0315-0860(75)90139-1 List of his writings: Joseph Ehrenfried Hofmann's 70th Birthday, casting notices from the mathematical seminar, Issue 90, 1971, ISSN 0373-8221, pp.
Beno Arbel (Hebrew: בנו ארבל; 20 January 1939 – 9 April 2013) was an Israeli mathematician and historian of mathematics who worked as Professor of Mathematics at Tel Aviv University.
Other notable doctoral students were Johann Christian Polycarp Erxleben, Johann Pfaff (doctoral advisor of Carl Friedrich Gauss), Johann Tobias Mayer, Heinrich Wilhelm Brandes, Farkas Bolyai (father of János Bolyai), and Georg Klügel.
With John Stachel and Jürgen Renn, Corry discovered new documents concerning the priority dispute between Hilbert and Einstein, and these new documents support Einstein against Hilbert.
From 2005 to 2017 she was maître de conférences at the University of Lille in France, also holding various short-term positions in France, Germany, and the US.
Also translated into German as Wege und Irrwege — Eine Geschichte der Mathematik (Birkhäuser, 1994) and into Russian as Пути и лабиринты: Очерки по истории математики (Mir, 1986).
Schroeder-Heister (eds.), "Proof-Theoretic Semantics", special issue of "Synthese", 2006, 148, issue 3, pp.
Davenport and the Art of Wind Engineering, about Alan Garnett Davenport (Princeton University Press, 2012), winner of the W.
After several additional visiting professorships at the Technical University of Braunschweig, University of Göttingen, University of Stuttgart, and University of Linz, she settled at the University of Jena until her retirement.
On the one hand, he was concerned with how one culture might appropriate, and so alter, the science of another (earlier) culture in order to make that earlier scientific knowledge more accessible to the recipient culture.
Gerald James Toomer (born 23 November 1934) is a historian of astronomy and mathematics who has written numerous books and papers on ancient Greek and medieval Islamic astronomy.
Lam Lay-Yong and Shen Kangshen (沈康身) (1989) "Methods of solving linear equations in traditional China", Historia Mathematica, Volume 16, Issue 2, Pages 107–122.
His parents were Sir George Colebrooke, 2nd Baronet, MP for Arundel and Chairman of the East India Company from 1769, and Mary Gaynor, daughter and heir of Patrick Gaynor of Antigua.
Biography Yanovskaya was born in Pruzhany, a town near Brest, to a Jewish family of accountant Alexander Neimark.
Following the publication of an award winning article, he proceeded to study under Karl Weierstrass and Leopold Kronecker in Berlin.
She has been a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science since 2005, and in 2012, she became one of the inaugural fellows of the American Mathematical Society.
She was originally from Los Angeles, and attended Hollywood High School and the University of California, Los Angeles before earning a bachelor's degree in 1948 from the University of California, Berkeley.
He attended the High School of Tohoku University, and in 1911 was admitted to the Imperial University of Tokyo.
Flood obtained his doctorate through part-time study, as he had already acquired a family and a job.
He is the creator and curator of the Annals of Irish Mathematics and Mathematicians, which chronicles four centuries of mathematical activity in Ireland, and has hosted monthly blogs since September 2016.
Stelle di congruenze e parallelismo assoluto: basi geometriche di una recente teoria di Einstein, Rend.
He has written biographies of the mathematicians Sophus Lie, Niels Henrik Abel and Gösta Mittag-Leffler, Jacob Aall, Conrad Nicolai Schwach, and Stein Rokkan.
Pakis, trans., Birkhäuser, 2012) Margarete Kahn und Klara Löbenstein: Mathematikerinnen – Studienrätinnen – Freundinnen (with York-Egbert König and Christina Prauss, Hentrich und Hentrich, 2011) Women in Industrial Research (ed.
van Est, Dirk Jan Struik, Levensberichten en herdenkingen (Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen, 2002), pp.
Life James Gow was the son of the artist James Gow (Sr.), who was a member of the Royal Society of British Artists.
2002: (with Takanori Kusuba) Arabic Astronomy in Sanskrit: Al-Birjandī on Tadhkira II, Chapter 11 and its Sanskrit Translation (Brill, Leiden).
Auguste Franziska Dick (née Kraus, 1910–1993) was an Austrian mathematician, historian of mathematics, and handwriting expert, known for her research on the history of mathematics under the Nazis, and for her biography of Emmy Noether.
1909: A History of the Logarithmic Slide Rule and Allied Instruments The Engineering News Publishing Company.
There, he became dean from 1913 to 1919, then moved back to the University of Bologna, where he retired in 1936.
3, Roshdi Rashed, Routledge, 2013) Ibn al-Haytham, New Spherical Geometry and Astronomy (A history of Arabic science and mathematics, vol.
"Lost Greek mathematical works in Arabic translation." Mathematical Intelligencer, volume 6, 1984, pages 32–38.
In 1950, he published a paper called The hyperplane sections of normal varieties, which has proved fundamental in later advances.
ISBN 978-0-691-02511-7 e:The story of a Number, by Eli Maor, Princeton University Press (Princeton, New Jersey) (1994) ISBN 0-691-05854-7 Venus in Transit, 2000, Princeton University Press.
He translated from Greek and Latin into English: Ptolemy's Almagest, a 2nd-century book on astronomy, the 13 books of Euclid's Elements, Apollonius' works on conic sections, and some works of Plato (Timaios, Critias), and St.
5 (1983): 299–306 doi:10.1080/0025570X.1983.11977061 "Sturm and Liouville's work on ordinary linear differential equations.
Education and career Fujiwara graduated in June 1902 from secondary school at the Third Higher School in Kyoto and then studied mathematics at the University of Tokyo, where he graduated in 1905.
Early life and education Nahum Rabinovitch was born in Montreal, Quebec to Sarah (née Weiner) and Sam Rabinovitch.
Becker's Postulate later played a role in the formalization given, by Charles Hartshorne, the American process theologian, of the Ontological Proof of God's existence, stimulated by conversations with the logical positivist and opponent of the alleged proof, Rudolf Carnap.
In 2001, she was awarded the Alexander Koyré Medal of the International Academy of the History of Science.
1968: Essays in the History of Mechanics, Springer-Verlag 1969: Rational Thermodynamics, McGraw-Hill, 1969.
One of the key ideas in the "first draft" was that the programmer could store a program in the computer's electronic memory, rather than program the computer using mechanical switches and patch cables.
xi–xiv), the following independent essays of Steinschneider deserve special mention: "Ueber die Volksliteratur der Juden", in R.
From the late 1980s, Arbel served as director of the program for gifted young students in mathematics and computer science at Tel Aviv University.
This is where lunar six data becomes valuable — because these intervals are measured just before and after the full moon and on both horizons, their combination ends up cancelling out all contributing factors except lunar anomaly.
More important, Eudemus wrote a number of influential books that clarified Aristotle's works: Eudemus's Physics (Φυσικά) was a compact, and more didactical version of Aristotle's homonymous work.
After securing a DSc, Singh went to Lucknow University, where he became a Reader in 1940 and a professor in 1943.
2006: James Joseph Sylvester: Jewish Mathematician in a Victorian World, Johns Hopkins University Press, ISBN 0-8018-8291-5 2014: with Victor J.
Ore's early work on lattice theory led him to the study of equivalence and closure relations, Galois connections, and finally to graph theory, which occupied him to the end of his life.
Locke's collection included notable mathematical works such as: Numerorum Mysteria (1591) by Pietro Bongo.
Book With Jeanne LaDuke, she wrote Pioneering Women in American Mathematics: The Pre-1940 PhD’s (American Mathematical Society and London Mathematical Society, 2009).
"The Mathematics of the Past: Distinguishing Its History From Our Heritage." Historia Mathematica, Vol.
Smith, attorney and surrogate judge, and Mary Elizabeth Bronson, who taught her young son Latin and Greek.
After graduating in 1900, Kollros taught mathematics from 1900 to 1909 in secondary school in his hometown of La Chaux-de-Fonds.
[Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Publishers], ISBN 978-0-12-215560-4, MR 0478177 Dieudonné, Jean (1981), Choix d'œuvres mathématiques.
In 1958 he and Curt Schmieden developed their own approach to infinitesimals through field extensions, independently of Abraham Robinson.
209, Philadelphia, 1997) Ibn al-Haytham's Theory of Conics, Geometrical Constructions and Practical Geometry (A history of Arabic Science and mathematics, vol.
With Amy Dahan, she wrote a popular French-language history of mathematics that was translated into English and German.
Feferman, Solomon (1975), "A language and axioms for explicit mathematics", Algebra and logic (Fourteenth Summer Res.
Elena Anne Corie Marchisotto (born 1945) is a mathematician, mathematics educator, and historian of mathematics.
Considered the founder of the Italian school for the history of mathematics, Boncompagni was one of the most prominent figures in the field in the second half of the nineteenth century.
His initial courses in Zurich were in civil engineering, but in his second year (under the influence of Karl Geiser) he switched to mathematics and physics.
The Nazi government closed the association in June 1943; they arrested the family, along with other leading members of the association, and sent them to the Theresienstadt concentration camp on August 4, 1943.
He has also written on the teaching of history, edited the historical section of the website of the New England Society in the City of Brooklyn and served on the Test Development Committee for the first Advanced Placement World History Exams.
Bibliography Rational Mechanics: The Classic Notre Dame Course (Dover Books on Physics) (2014) by R.
He wrote a history, covering the years 1926 to 2000) of the Eastern Pennsylvania and Delaware Section (EPaDel or EPADEL) of the Mathematical Association of America (MAA).
Her other books include Kuxan Suum: Path to the Center of the Universe (2010) and Euler Celestial Analysis: Introduction to Spacecraft Orbit Mechanics (2018).
References External links The article was created as a translation (by Google) of the corresponding article in German Wikipedia.
It was titled: En kontekstualiseret matematikhistorisk analyse af ikke-lineær programmering: udviklingshistorie og multipel opdagelse (A contextualized mathematical history analysis of nonlinear programming: development history and multiple discovery.
Hendrik Jan Maarten "Henk" Bos (17 July 1940 – 12 February 2024) was a Dutch historian of mathematics.
In the academia she is most remembered now for her work on history and philosophy of mathematics, as well as for her influence on young generation of researchers.
His first important work was "Über die Einführung unserer gegenwärtigen Ziffern in Europa", which he wrote for the Zeitschrift für Mathematik und Physik, 1856, vol.
In 2006, he was elected to membership of the American Philosophical Society, and is a past president (1994) of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics.
After teaching in the Institut national des langues et civilisations orientales from 1985 to 1986, she joined the French National Centre for Scientific Research as a researcher in 1986, and became a director of research in 2010.
Works A Commentary on Plato's Meno (University of North Carolina Press, 1965) Greek Mathematical Thought and the Origin of Algebra (MIT Press, 1968), translated from German by Eva Brann, originally published in 1934–36.
Derek Thomas "Tom" Whiteside FBA (23 July 1932 – 22 April 2008) was a British historian of mathematics best known for his studies of the mathematics of Isaac Newton.
His numerous mathematical writings include Anfangsgründe der Mathematik ("Foundations of Mathematics") (Göttingen 1758-69, 4 volumes; 6th edition 1800) and Geschichte der Mathematik ("History of Mathematics") (Göttingen 1796-1800, 4 volumes).
(A collection of mathematical and biographical information, photos, links about Alexander Grothendieck.) Colin McLarty at the Mathematics Genealogy Project
Starting from 1879 he studied under Karl Weierstrass, Alexander von Brill, and Hermann Amandus Schwarz at the University of Munich, at the Technische Hochschule in Munich (now Technical University of Munich), at the University of Berlin and at the University of Göttingen.
He was director of studies in the history of exact science at the EHESS from 1988 until his retirement.
She is also the co-editor, with Cécile Michel, of Mathematics, Administrative and Economic Activities in Ancient Worlds (Springer, 2020).
Frei's research deals with number theory and the history of mathematics, especially the history of number theory in the 19th and 20th centuries and Swiss mathematics.
She became a schoolteacher in the Oakland, California school system, and earned another degree in teaching from UC Berkeley.
doi:10.1093/bjps/41.3.351 Colin McLarty, 'Emmy Noether’s ‘Set Theoretic’ Topology: From Dedekind to the rise of functors' in The Architecture of Modern Mathematics: Essays in history and philosophy (edited by Jeremy Gray and José Ferreirós), Oxford University Press (2006) p.
He worked in the mathematical fields of analysis, geometry, and number theory and wrote more than 100 mathematical articles in German, English, and Japanese.
On 26 August 1974, he married Janet Alaine Nippell (born 1951), who was for some years on the editorial staff of the Los Angeles Times.
Since 2002 she has been a corresponding member of the Académie internationale d’histoire des sciences in Paris.
thesis, written under the direction of Oscar Zariski, was on Valuation Ideals in Rings of Polynomials in Two Variables.
(eds.) The first 60 years of nonlinear analysis of Jean Mawhin (Sevilla Conference 2003), World Scientific 2004
Book Kent is the coauthor of Game Theory: A Playful Introduction (with Matt DeVos, Student Mathematical Library 80, American Mathematical Society, 2016).
Zweiter Theil: Die analytische Geometrie des Raumes (1901), which went through several editions over two decades.
Ludic Proof: Greek Mathematics and the Alexandrian Aesthetic, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2009, ISBN 978-0-521-89894-2.
Knorr was a talented violinist, and played first violin in the Harvard Orchestra, but he gave up his music when he came to Stanford, as the pressures of the tenure process did not allow him adequate practice time.
In 1891 he graduated in mathematics from the University of Copenhagen and in 1895 obtained his doctorate.
Lecture delivered at the 1950 International Congress of Mathematicians in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on the book Introductio in analysin infinitorum (1748) by Leonhard Euler.
He held positions of Professor at the University of Cape Town, South Africa, and at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Robert of Chester's Latin Translation of the Algebra of Al-Khowarizmi, with an Introduction, Critical Notes and an English Version.
She returned to Mainz as an assistant professor from 2006 to 2008, and became a professor at Frankfurt in 2009.
He had planned to study the history of Vietnamese mathematics, but he only finished a paper on Vietnamese calendar before his death.
For three years he was a research assistant under Gilbert Ames Bliss, an authority on the mathematical theory of external ballistics.
His work did not have much of a role in the history of mathematics because France, at that time, was less interested in such matters than Germany.
External links Bibliography Archived 25 November 2005 at the Wayback Machine Book Review Archived 9 August 2014 at the Wayback Machine by Fernando Q.
For more than twenty-five years he contributed the Sunday Supplement of the Italian newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore with a column on mathematical subjects, and for this activity in 2006 he was awarded the Pitagora Prize from the town of Crotone for the popularization of mathematics.
Boolos proved a conjecture due to Crispin Wright (and also proved, independently, by others), that the system of Frege's Grundgesetze, long thought vitiated by Russell's paradox, could be freed of inconsistency by replacing one of its axioms, the notorious Basic Law V with Hume's Principle.
He was editor of the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society; contributed to other mathematical journals; published a series of textbooks; translated Felix Klein's Famous Problems of Geometry, Fink's History of Mathematics, and the Treviso Arithmetic.
He also published the following two books: "The Theory and Construction of Non-Differentiable Functions", Lucknow University Studies No.
Gouvêa of The Mathematics of Plato's Academy Archived 29 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine Memorial symposium Archived 5 December 2004 at the Wayback Machine organized in his honor at Warwick, 9 November 2004.
Li Rui (Chinese: 李锐; pinyin: Lǐ Ruì; 8 December 1768 in Suzhou – 30 June 1817 in Suzhou) was a Chinese mathematician.
Coughlin{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: postscript (link); 2nd edition 1992 LCCN 91-58103 ISBN 0030558492 Brief calculus with applications.
in 1934 with thesis Contributions to Centro-Affine Differential Geometry, in which he pursued research themes of his two mentors, Myller and Octav Mayer.
He became at Federal City College an assistant professor and then in 1973 an associate professor and, after the merger of Federal City College into the University of the District of Columbia in 1977, a full professor there in 1980.
Books Roberts is the author of: King of Infinite Space: Donald Coxeter, the Man Who Saved Geometry, about Harold Scott MacDonald Coxeter (Walker & Company, 2006), winner of the Euler Book Prize of the Mathematical Association of America Wind Wizard: Alan G.
Hofmann was considered an expert in the development of calculus by Leibniz, whose time in Paris he studied carefully.
Between 1850 and 1862 he produced studies on mathematicians of the Middle Ages and in 1868 founded the Bullettino di bibliografia e di storia delle scienze matematiche e fisiche.
In 1978 he was an Invited Speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM) in Helsinki.
(2000), "Hans Freudenthal: A mathematician on didactics and curriculum theory", Journal of Curriculum Studies, 32 (6): 777–796, doi:10.1080/00220270050167170, hdl:1871/10912, S2CID 55632373.
Life Solomon Feferman was born in The Bronx in New York City to working-class parents who had immigrated to the United States after World War I and had met and married in New York.
in the history of mathematics there in 2005; at Brown, her faculty mentors included David Pingree, Alice Slotsky, and Kim Plofker.
The marriage produced four children: Kirsten Aaboe, Erik Harris Aaboe, Anne Aaboe, Niels Peter Aaboe.
Nerida Fay Ellerton (née Gersch, born 1942) is an Australian mathematics educator and historian of mathematics.
Freudenthal, Hans (1986), Didactical Phenomenology of Mathematical Structures, Mathematics Education Library, vol.
She later became a fellow of the college, and created a third-year module on the history of mathematics at the University of Oxford.
For his contribution in the field of the history of mathematics he was awarded the Albert Leon Whiteman Memorial Prize by the AMS in 2005.
She is the former president of the Association française d’études chinoises and of the International Society for the History of East Asian Science, Technology, and Medicine.
With Shiing-Shen Chern and Isadore Singer, he co-founded Mathematical Sciences Research Institute in 1982.
In his intensive research into the history of Chinese astronomy, he particularly examined the influences of Islamic astronomy and the relationship between Indian astronomy and Chinese astronomy.
Ruan Yuan was a follower of the Han Learning tradition and as such, with the encouragement of Liu Fenglu, he edited and organized publication of the compendium of the imperial achievements in kaozheng scholarship, the Huang Qing Jingjie (皇清经解) published in 1829.
(2003), Essays on the History of Mechanics: In Memory of Clifford Ambrose Truesdell and Edoardo Benvenuto, Basel–Boston–Berlin: Birkhäuser Verlag, p.
She held teaching positions at the University of Massachusetts Lowell, at Mount Holyoke College and at Arkansas State University before joining Saint Louis University, where for 25 years she was a professor of mathematics and computer science.
He also taught as a professor in Naples at the Istituto Tecnico "Gianbattista Della Porta" from 1890 to 1923, when he retired.
O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Li Rui (mathematician)", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews
This book, aimed at a general audience, examines the history of three classical problems from Greek mathematics: doubling the cube, squaring the circle, and angle trisection.
While Ethnomathematics has been defined many ways by different people, D'Ambrosio defined it as a study of mathematics related to members of distinct cultural groups groups,including indigenous people, workers and even children.
Heinrich Burkhardt at the Mathematics Genealogy Project Einstein's dissertation Heinrich Liebmann „Zur Erinnerung an Heinrich Burkhardt“, Jahresbericht DMV Bd.24, 1915, S.185-195
28b, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1991, ISBN 978-0-521-22717-9; chapter summary Episodes from the Early History of Astronomy, New York: Springer, 2001, ISBN 0-387-95136-9, LCCN 00-61919 Aaboe, Asger (27 June 2011).
Educated at University College School, he entered Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1870, became a scholar and first Smith's Prizeman, and gained his BA in 1874 as second Wrangler.
Recognition Bréard was one of two 1998 recipients of the thesis prize of the Association française d'études chinoises.
His early work was on algebraic number fields, how to decompose the ideal generated by a prime number into prime ideals.
She is an academician of the Spanish Royal Academy of Sciences, the Royal European Academy of Doctors, the Royal Academy of Sciences and Arts of Barcelona, and the Institute for Catalan Studies.
Notes References Fischbein, Efraim (1987), Intuition in Science and Mathematics: An Educational Approach, Mathematics Education Library, Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp.
1899: A History of Physics in its Elementary Branches: Including the Evolution of Physical Laboratories, The Macmillan Company, 1899.
Life Thibaut was born in Germany, worked briefly in England, and then in 1875, was appointed Professor at the Government Sanskrit College, Varanasi in northern India.
His two-volume Handbuch der Theorie der Linearen Differentialgleichungen was published from 1895 to 1898 in Teubner in Leipzig (Vol.2 in two parts).
"Algebra and naive geometry: an investigation of some basic aspects of Old Babylonian mathematical thought II".
Avigad, Jeremy; Feferman, Solomon (1998), "Gödel's functional (Dialectica) interpretation", Handbook of proof theory, 337–405, Stud.
Amodeo was an invited speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians in 1900 at Paris and again in 1908 in Rome.
Symmetrie, Gruppe, Dualität : Zur Beziehung zwischen theoretischer Mathematik und Anwendungen in Kristallographie und Baustatik des 19.
He especially liked Schwarz’s lectures on analytic functions and synthetic geometry, not only because of their innovations but also because Schwarz’s teaching method.
An Episcopalian from an old Virginia family, he taught in the mathematics department of the University of Notre Dame.
He used the results of Frobenius and Bieberbach on space groups in n-dimensional spaces and introduced the concept of the Arithmetische Kristallklasse (arithmetic crystal class).
Deux siècles d'histoire (with Bruno Belhoste, Dominique Pestre, and Antoine Picon, Economica, 1995) Changing Images in Mathematics: From the French Revolution to the New Millennium (with Umberto Bottazini, Routledge, 2001).
Early life, family and education Rolf-Rüdiger Thiele was born in Polepp, Bohemia (now part of the Czech Republic).
Astrology and astronomy in Iran // Encyclopædia Iranica Astrology // Britannica Astrology // The Dictionary of the History of Ideas (1973–74) References Sources and external links Memorial by Kim Plofker and Bernard R.
It was written some years prior to Wiles' proof of the theorem, and covers research related to the theorem only up to the work of Ernst Kummer, who used p-adic numbers and ideal theory to prove the theorem for a large class of exponents, the regular primes.
He became interested in Gauss through one of his elementary school teachers, Minna Waldeck Gauss Reeves, who was a great-granddaughter of Gauss.
Gilles is a past President and a current Vice-President of British Society for the Philosophy of Science.
As a graduate student studying the history of mathematics, Locke assisted Smith and Yoshio Mikami with their 1914 book, The History of Japanese Mathematics, by taking the many photographs used throughout the book.
History and Philosophy of Modern Mathematics, pages 177–200, Minnesota Studies in Philososphy of Science XI, University of Minnesota Press, 1988.
In 2012, Stedall wrote the book The History of Mathematics: A Very Short Introduction, part of the Oxford University Press' Very Short Introduction series of books.
Books Ioan James, Topologies and Uniformities (Springer Undergraduate Mathematics Series), Springer, 1999.
She came into contact with the work of the Persian mathematician, physicist and astronomer Abū Sahl al-Qūhī, who worked in Baghdad in the 10th century and worked on the geometrical forms of buildings.
In 2004 she won the Gung and Hu Award for Distinguished Service to Mathematics of the Mathematical Association of America for her work on Project NExT.
The 230 spaces groups had been published in 1888 by Schoenflies and, independently, in 1891 by Fedorov.
Beginning in 1883, with a speech Rudio gave at a celebration of the centennial of Leonhard Euler's death, Rudio became interested in Euler's life and works.
With Paul Stäckel he wrote a history of non-Euclidean geometry (Theorie der Parallellinien von Euklid bis auf Gauss, 1895).
Subsequently, Lawrence moved to post-secondary education, including work as a senior lecturer at Bath Spa University, Anglia Ruskin University, and Middlesex University.
Oxford University Press.) "The early history of the cumulants and the Gram–Charlier series", International Statistical Review, 68, number 2 (2000): 137–153.
Dirk van Dalen (born 20 December 1932, Amsterdam) is a Dutch mathematician and historian of science.
Books Musielak's 2004 self-published historical novel Sophie's Diary: A Mathematical Novel, based on the life of mathematician Sophie Germain, was republished in a second edition in 2012 by the Mathematical Association of America.
He was the Director of the Cohn Institute from 2003 to 2009, Director of the Yavetz School of Historical Studies from 2013 to 2015, and Dean of Humanities at TAU between 2015 and 2020.
She earned a degree in history at Queen's University, then a graduate degree in journalism from Ryerson University in 1997.
Plato's Trilogy: Theaetetus, the Sophist, and the Statesman (University of Chicago Press, 1977) Jacob Klein: Lectures and Essays ed.
Life Wussing graduated from high school, and from 1947 to 52 studied mathematics and physics at the University of Leipzig.
References External links David Eugene Smith, Yoshio Mikami: A History of Japanese Mathematics Open Court Publishing, Chicago 1914
During that time, he served, beginning in 1955, as vice president of the Astronomical Society of Japan.
In 1927, Yale hired Ore as an assistant professor of mathematics, promoted him to associate professor in 1928, then to full professor in 1929.
The journal is named after the New Zealand physicist Ernest Rutherford (1871–1937), who studied at the Canterbury College (Christchurch).
Education Flood achieved a Bachelor of Science degree at Queens University, Belfast, and a master's degree at Linacre College, Oxford.
Before joining Stanford, Mints held research positions at the Steklov Mathematical Institute, Leningrad University, and the Estonian Academy of Sciences.
Biography His father, Jean Jacques Emmanuel Sédillot, orientalist and astronomer, worked alongside Delambre and Laplace.
Erhard Scholz (born 1947) is a German historian of mathematics with interests in the history of mathematics in the 19th and 20th centuries, historical perspective on the philosophy of mathematics and science, and Hermann Weyl's geometrical methods applied to gravitational theory.
and Why The Professor Can't Teach, a lecture titled Pea Soup, Tripe and Mathematics, and an obituary.
Umberto Bottazzini (born 1947 in Viadana, Lombardy) is an Italian historian of mathematics, writing on the history of mathematics and the foundations of mathematics.
References Citations Sources External links O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Duncan Sommerville", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews Obituary, Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society Vol.
Definition of software engineering Bauer was a colleague of the German Representative the NATO Science Committee.
Detlef Laugwitz (1932–2000) was a German mathematician and historian, who worked in differential geometry, history of mathematics, functional analysis, and non-standard analysis.
Von der Bernoullischen Brachistochrone zum Kalibrator-Konzept: ein historischer Abriß zur Entstehung der Feldtheorie in der Variationsrechnung.
Her works in mathematics and the history of mathematics include a translation of a book on algebra by Thomas Harriot, originally published in 1631, a few years after Harriot's death.
She moved to England in 2012 and conducted her research at the Needham Research Institute, the Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences, and Wolfson College Cambridge.
While serving as an engineer for the Fortis Powder Company Ltd at Herentals, Antwerp, he was nearly killed in an explosion.
He moved to Harvard University in 1983 for continuing graduate study in number theory, and completed his doctorate there in 1987; his dissertation, titled Arithmetic of p-adic Modular Forms, was supervised by Barry Mazur.
Later life Coddington married businessman William Henry Williams in 1917, and her subsequent publications were under the name Emily Coddington Williams.
Scholz has investigated Karl Culmann's graphic statics, the determination of the crystallographic space group by Evgraf Fedorov, the applied mathematics of Hermann Grassmann, and the relation of Gauss's ideas on non-Euclidean geometry to his geodetic work.
Toomer at the Mathematics Genealogy Project History of the History of Mathematics Department Archived 4 August 2021 at the Wayback Machine at Brown University
Irish mathematicians and mathematics Mulcahy frequently writes about the culture and history of mathematics in Ireland.
The Freudenthal magic square is a construction in Lie algebra developed by Freudenthal (and independently by Jacques Tits) in the 1950s and 1960s, associating each Lie algebra to a pair of division algebras.
In 1939 they travelled, including to Moscow where May visited the Kharkov Engineering-Economics Institute.
She is best known for her efforts in restoring the research of mathematical logic in the Soviet Union and publishing and editing the mathematical works of Karl Marx.
He is a professor at the University of Milan, and is known for his studies on the works of Isaac Newton.
Boncompagni edited Bullettino di bibliografia e di storia delle scienze matematiche e fisiche ("The bulletin of bibliography and history of mathematical and physical sciences") (1868–1887), the first Italian periodical entirely dedicated to the history of mathematics.
These were based on Aristotle's writings, their own lecture notes, personal recollections, et cetera.
After entering the University of Leiden in 1912, Struik showed a strong aptitude for mathematics and physics.
While working as a math teacher at Mokpo High School and Gwangju Jeil High School since 1947, he felt the need to popularize math and later wrote several popular math books.
She has been a research fellow at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich and in the computer science department at the University of Warwick.
Early life Merzbach was born in Berlin, where her mother was a philologist and her father was an economist who worked for the Reich Association of Jews in Germany during World War II.
He also wrote a book titled The concept of matter in Descartes and Leibniz and one titled Number systems, introduction to Euclid book V, and to the theory of limits.
In 1936, the Romanian Academy awarded him a two-year scholarship to pursue his postdoctoral studies in Italy and Germany; during this period, he visited Enrico Bompiani at Sapienza University of Rome and Wilhelm Blaschke at the University of Hamburg.
Education and career Imhausen studied mathematics, chemistry, and Egyptology at Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, passing the Staatsexamen in 1996.
Selected publications Un algorithme pour l'approximation simultaneé de deux grandeurs, Imprimerie Soullier, Geneva 1905 Géométrie descriptive, Orell Füssli, Zürich 1918 Cours de géométrie projective, Griffon, Neuchâtel 1946, 108 p.
In 1909 a chair in the history of philosophy in its relationship to the sciences was created for him at the Sorbonne.
In 1969 he was appointed an IBM Fellow, the company's most prestigious technical honor, and a consultant to the director of research.
247–286 Della vita e delle opere di Gherardo Cremonese, traduttore del secolo decimosecondo, e di Gherardo da Sabbioneta, astronomo del secolo decimoterzo.
Paul-Louis Ver Eecke (23 February 1867 – 14 October 1959) was a Belgian mining engineer and historian of Greek mathematics.
[2] at Google Books with Urs Stammbach: Mathematicians and Mathematics in Zürich, at the university and the ETH.
After the College of Saint Teresa closed in 1987, Schulte moved to a home for the Sisters of Saint Francis in Rochester, Minnesota, where she died on March 20, 2000.
In the late 1990s, she was Technical Director of the American Committee for South Asian Manuscripts of the American Oriental Society, where she was also concerned with the development of programs for the text comparison.
Education and career David Eugene Smith is considered one of the founders of the field of mathematics education.
In 1980 she completed her time in Munich, publishing The development of tensor calculus, in 1994 in a revised form as a book.
He began his career as a history teacher before becoming Secretary of the Collège de France and the School of Oriental Languages in 1832.
Jeremy John Gray (born 25 April 1947) is an English mathematician primarily interested in the history of mathematics.
O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Moritz Cantor", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews Moritz Cantor at the Mathematics Genealogy Project Literature by and about Moritz Cantor in the German National Library catalogue
Babylonian astronomers were able to measure the daily retardation of the setting of the full moon by combining lunar six values ŠU2 + NA for the full moon, and daily retardation of the rising moon by combining lunar six values ME + GE6.
Hélène Bellosta-Baylet (1946 – 19 August 2011) was a French historian of mathematics specializing in mathematics in medieval Islam.
He worked on transistors in the early 1950s, became a polymer scientist, and then worked as a computer researcher for English Electric LEO, before becoming "a free-lance computer consultant and historian of science", and the Alastair Horne Modern History Fellow at the University of Oxford.
His thesis Die Grundlagen der ägyptischen Bruchrechnung ("The Fundamentals of Egyptian Calculation with Fractions") (Springer, 1926) was a mathematical analysis of the table in the Rhind Papyrus.
From 1970 he was assistant professor (chargé de cours) and from 1974 professor of mathematics at the Université catholique de Louvain (with full professorship from 1977).
Exploring new ways to connect: Proceedings of the Eleventh International Mathematics Education and Society Conference.
(laurea) in mathematics from the University of Naples, where he became an instructor (libero docente) and from 1885 to 1923 taught projective geometry.
Reviewer Leo Depuydt writes that this book "surveys all that is known about constants in Mesopotamian mathematics and advances our insight into their function".
Hans Freudenthal (17 September 1905 – 13 October 1990) was a Jewish German-born Dutch mathematician.
Books Bashmakova's books include: Диофант и диофантовы уравнения, Nauka, 1972; Diophant und diophantische Gleichungen, Birkhäuser, 1974; Diophantus and Diophantine Equations, Mathematical Association of America, 1997.
He continued publishing well into his late eighties, his last book being Science Texts in Sanskrit in Manuscripts Repositories of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, published in 2003.
In 1816 he was elected to the fellowship of both the Royal Society and the Royal Society of Edinburgh In 1820 he was a founder of the Royal Astronomical Society.
1956: The World of Mathematics, 4 volumes, 2535 pages, Simon and Schuster LCCN 55-10060 1958: Nagel, Ernest; Newman, James R.
The award particularly cited her role in the growth of the number of mathematics students at her campus, approximately 2/3 of whom were female.
Furthermore, he contributed an article on the work of Paramesvara: "Paramesvara's rule for the circumradius of a cyclic quadrilateral".
Starting in 1973, he was senior lecturer and in 1989 reader for the history and philosophy of science at Roskilde University, most recently in the Section for Philosophy and Science Studies.
Selected publications Books The Decision Problem: Solvable Classes of Quantificational Formulas, Addison-Wesley, 1979.
In honor of her 70th birthday, the University of Barcelona published a two-volume edition of her selected works in 2016.
Heinrich Friedrich Karl Ludwig Burkhardt (15 October 1861 – 2 November 1914) was a German mathematician.
Career From 1986 he was a professor at the Catholic University of Eichstätt-Ingolstadt, then at the University of Düsseldorf, and finally in the 2000s at the University of Vienna.
Education After high school in Brownwood, Texas, Merzbach entered Southwestern, but transferred after two years to the University of Texas at Austin, where she graduated in 1952 with a bachelor's degree in mathematics.
"越曆朔閏考 (Sur la concordance des dates néoméniques du calendrier annamite et du calendrier chinois de 1759 à 1886)".
From them we know that the book treated the work by, among others, Thales of Miletus, the Pythagoreans, Oenopides of Chios, and Hippocrates of Chios.
In 2002, she became a Corresponding Member of the International Academy of the History of Sciences and was elected an effective member in 2007.
He began his professional career working on differential geometry and the body of complex numbers, but from 1947 he devoted himself to subjects in the history of mathematics, publishing several books in this field.
Itō was born in Tokyo, and obtained his bachelor's degree in literature from Tokyo University in 1953, his master's in 1955, and Ph.D.
In 1978 the London Mathematical Society awarded him the Senior Whitehead Prize, which was established in honour of his doctoral supervisor, Whitehead.
ISBN 1-56858-105-X Probability 1: The Book That Proves There Is Life in Outer Space, Harvest Books, January 2000.
Contributions Seidenberg was known for his research in commutative algebra, algebraic geometry, differential algebra, and the history of mathematics.
Dauben's fields of expertise are the history of science, the history of mathematics, the Scientific Revolution, the sociology of science, intellectual history, the 17th and 18th centuries, the history of Chinese science, and the history of botany.
He gained a BA degree from The Queen's College, Oxford in 1963, and a DPhil degree from the University of Oxford in 1966.
Since his retirement he was honorary professor of the history of mathematics at the Faculty of Science at the University of Aarhus.
Reading the Principia: the debate on Newton's mathematical methods for natural philosophy from 1687 to 1736, Cambridge University Press, 1999 (paperback 2003).
Books Richards is the author of the monograph Mathematical Visions: The Pursuit of Geometry in Victorian England (Academic Press, 1988) and of a memoir on her struggle to balance her academic work with caring for a son with a brain tumor, Angles of Reflection: Logic and a Mother's Love (W.
Hermann Hankel (1875) Die Elemente der projectivischen Geometrie in synthetischer Behandlung, Teubner, Leipzig.
John's College in Annapolis, and in 1948 became a master at Portsmouth Priory, now Portsmouth Abbey School, in Portsmouth (Rhode Island).
She co-authored The Secret Lives of Numbers in 2023, a highly acclaimed work on the history of mathematics.
Scientific achievements He published work on limit theorems related to the "Shannon–McMillan–Breiman theorem" (1992).
The Young integral also is named after him and has now been generalised in the theory of rough paths.
Selected publications The Shaping of Deduction in Greek Mathematics: A Study in Cognitive History, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1999, ISBN 978-0-521-54120-6.
The Search for Mathematical Roots, 1870–1940: Logics, Set Theories, and the Foundations of Mathematics from Cantor through Russell to Gödel.
The work contains little interpretation and makes no attempt to contextualize the results being described, yet it contains essentially every significant number theoretic idea from the dawn of mathematics up to the 1920s except for quadratic reciprocity and higher reciprocity laws.
McLarty has also written about the German algebraist Emmy Noether and her involvement with German political history.
He attained a doctorate in 1886 in Munich under Gustav Conrad Bauer with a thesis entitled: Beziehungen zwischen der Invariantentheorie und der Theorie algebraischer Integrale und ihrer Umkehrungen (Relations between the invariant theory and the theory of algebraic integrals and their inverses).
Her dissertation, Non-Euclidean Geometry In Nineteenth-century England: A Study of Changing Perceptions of Mathematical Truth, was supervised by I.
Though only fragments of these have survived, included in the works of later authors, their value is immense.
James Gow (1854–1923) was an English scholar, educator, historian, and author, widely recognized for A Short History of Greek Mathematics.
He liaised with the London Science Museum, the Royal Society, the Crawford Library, the Oxford Museum of the History of Science, the Cambridge University Library, the Edinburgh Royal Observatory for source material.
She won the 2009 Euler Book Prize for her book King of Infinite Space: Donald Coxeter, The Man Who Saved Geometry.
"Real Persons on Coins: Ominous Precedents and a Paleofeminist Plea", 2020 in Substack [2] & [3] & [4] and in Humanities Commons [5] References External links From State to Free-State: The Meaning of the Word Republic from Jean Bodin to John Adams By William R.
While away, he was promoted to associate professor in the Department of Higher Algebra at the University of Iași.
Amir Alexander (Hebrew: עמיר אלכסנדר) is a historian, author, and academic who studies the interconnections between mathematics and its cultural and historical setting.
Howard Stein (January 21, 1929 – March 8, 2024) was an American philosopher and historian of science.
The central thesis of his work Greek Mathematical Thought and the Origin of Algebra is that the modern concept of mathematics is based on the symbolic interpretation of the Greek concept of number (arithmos).
(54 planches), with Ernest de Sarzec, 1925 – The cylinders of Goudéa discovered by Ernest de Sarzec at Telloh.
Education and career Marchisotto graduated from Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in 1967 and earned a master's degree from California State University, Northridge in 1977.
Dunnington wrote several articles about Gauss and later a biography entitled Gauss: Titan of Science (ISBN 0-88385-547-X).
Her employers have included Northrop Grumman, MSE Technology Applications, and ATK Allied Techsystems.
In 1958 he became a lecturer at the Technical University of Munich, where he obtained his Habilitation.
In 2023, he was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India for his contributions in the field of literature and education.
Yushkevich (1906–1993) and formation of the society of mathematical historians (in Russian), in Proc.
A Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Coolidge served as president of the Mathematical Association of America and vice-president of the American Mathematical Society.
2012: Huygens, Christiaan (Also Huyghens, Christian), Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography, Encyclopedia.com References External links University of Aarhus Staff 155 Notes on Contributors Henk J.
The International Academy of the History of Science elected her as a corresponding member in 1966 and a full member in 1971.
Publications Fauvel is known as an editor of books on the history of mathematics, several of which have been translated.
Oxford University Press 1979, 2nd edition 1989, Spanish edition, Ideas de Espacio, Mondadori Espana, 1992.
Topics that she discussed on the programme included Archimedes, whether Isaac Newton or Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz were the founder of calculus, the Fibonacci sequence, prime numbers in finance, and Renaissance era mathematics.
Dickson) Theory and Application of Finite Groups from University of Michigan Historical Math Collection, original publisher: John Wiley & Sons.
Lester Paldy deemed the book appropriate for teachers of physics as it contained a substantial amount of information on how mathematics had been applied to study physical phenomena.
XI, Interscience Publishers, a division of John Wiley & Sons, New York-London, ISBN 978-0-8218-4066-5, MR 0144979 {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) Curtis, Charles W.; Reiner, Irving (1981), Methods of representation theory.
Ludwig Schlesinger (Hungarian: Schlesinger Lajos, Slovak: Ľudovít Schlesinger), (1 November 1864 – 15 December 1933) was a German mathematician known for the research in the field of linear differential equations.
Books Die Basler Mayatafeln: Astronomische Deutung der Inschriften auf den Türstürzen 2 und 3 aus Tempel IV in Tikal.
Guy Waldo Dunnington (January 15, 1906, Bowling Green, Missouri – April 10, 1974, Natchitoches, Louisiana) was a writer, historian and professor of German known for his writings on the famous German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss.
Ilan Sadeh (Hebrew: אילן שדה; born June 1, 1953) is an Israeli IT theoretician, entrepreneur, and human rights activist.
Eine Untersuchung zu den mittelägyptischen mathematischen Aufgabentexten, was published by Harrassowitz Verlag in 2002 (Ägyptologische Abhandlungen, vol.
1977, "On deciding the provability of certain fixed point statements," Journal of Symbolic Logic 42: 191–193.
In 1956 her husband Solomon Feferman took a position at Stanford University, and she moved with him and their two daughters from the East Bay to the San Francisco Peninsula.
Selected publications Bos contributed to the study of the mathematical works of the seventeenth-century philosopher René Descartes, including Descartes’ contribution to the development of algebra and geometry.
Jacob Klein (March 3, 1899 – July 16, 1978) was a Russian-American philosopher and interpreter of Plato, who worked extensively on the nature and historical origin of modern symbolic mathematics.
Moore (November 2, 1936 – July 26, 2023) was an American mathematician who worked in the theory of operator algebras and topological groups.
McLarty, Colin, 2005, "Saunders Mac Lane (1909–2005): His Mathematical Life and Philosophical Works," Philosophia Mathematica 13: 237–51.
His parents were Henry Hermanagle Karpinski of Warsaw, Poland and Mary Louise Engesser of Guebwiller, France.
She later obtained a teaching certificate from the College for the Training of Teachers at Columbia University and later studied astronomy and mathematics for a year at Vassar College.
With Solomon Feferman, she was the co-author of a biography of Alfred Tarski, Alfred Tarski: Life and Logic (Cambridge University Press, 2004).
Upon his death he was survived by his wife and their daughter, Kate Louise Yandell (born 1988), who is a science writer dealing with biology.
Reprint: Sacred Science Institute, 2006 Mathematics: Queen and Servant of Science, McGraw-Hill, 1951, 437p.
Croarken is a British independent scholar and author in the history of mathematics and the history of computing.
From Frege to Gödel: A Source Book in Mathematical Logic underrated the algebraic logic of De Morgan, Boole, Peirce, and Schröder, but devoted more pages to Skolem than to anyone other than Frege, and included Löwenheim (1915), the founding paper on model theory.
With his former student Karl Faber, he wrote a book on the theory of partial differential equations of the first order using methods of Lie group theory.
I primi algoritmi infiniti nelle opere dei matematici italiani del secolo XVII (1939) L'Opera geometrica di Evangelista Torricelli (1939) Le fonti della matematica moderna.
David Eugene Smith (January 21, 1860 – July 29, 1944) was an American mathematician, educator, and editor.
(1904) Thibaut contributed a number of Sanskrit manuscripts to the Department of Oriental Collections, Bodleian Library, University of Oxford, where they are archived today.
Coolidge (1949) The Mathematics Of Great Amateurs, Oxford University Press (Dover Publications 1963).
Nazism and neglect It is possible that regard for Becker's earlier work suffered from his later Nazi allegiances, leading to lack of reference or published commentary by émigré logicians and mathematicians who had fled Hitlerism.
Her dissertation, Extensiones maximales de un cuerpo global en las que un divisor primo descompone completamente, was jointly supervised by Rafael Mallol Balmaña and Jürgen Neukirch.
Career From 1967 to 1973 Reich was a scientific assistant at the Research Institute of the Deutsches Museum in Munich and the Institute for the History of Mathematics and Natural Sciences at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, where in 1973 she graduated under supervision of Helmuth Gericke.
Anita Burdman Feferman (July 27, 1927 – April 9, 2015) was an American historian of mathematics and biographer, known for her biographies of Jean van Heijenoort and (with her husband, logician Solomon Feferman) of Alfred Tarski.
Ruan Yuan, 1764–1849: The Life And Work of a Major Scholar-Official in Nineteenth-Century China Before the Opium War.
Yoshio Mikami (三上 義夫, Mikami Yoshio; February 16, 1875 – December 31, 1950) was a Japanese mathematician and historian of Japanese mathematics.
Career In 1837 he published the book Aperçu historique sur l'origine et le développement des méthodes en géométrie ("Historical view of the origin and development of methods in geometry"), a study of the method of reciprocal polars in projective geometry.
With Noll and Bernard David Coleman, he contributed to foundational rational mechanics, whose aim is to construct a mathematical model for treating (continuous) mechanical phenomena.
Calculator Another aspect of Wallis's mathematical skills was his ability to do mental calculations.
While Takagi was considered the more original researcher (on the basis of contributions to class field theory), Fujiwara was known for his scholarship.
Newman also wrote Gödel's Proof (1958) with Ernest Nagel, presenting the main results of Gödel's incompleteness theorem and the mathematical work and philosophies leading up to its discovery in a more accessible manner.
Boris Vladimirovich Gnedenko (Russian: Бори́с Влади́мирович Гнеде́нко; January 1, 1912 – December 27, 1995) was a Soviet mathematician and a student of Andrey Kolmogorov.
2 The Works of Archimedes Archimedes' Quadrature Of The Parabola Archimedes' On The Measurement Of The Circle Diophantus Of Alexandria: A Study In The History Of Greek Algebra The Thirteen Books of Euclid's Elements: vol.
Warren David Goldfarb (born 1949) is Walter Beverly Pearson Professor of Modern Mathematics and Mathematical Logic, emeritus, at Harvard University.
His book Fermat's Last Theorem was a United States bestseller and was nominated for a Los Angeles Times Book Prize.
In 1961 he became assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley and professor in 1966.
He rose to be the Principal of the College and was appointed Registrar of the Allahabad University, afterwards being transferred to Calcutta.
Ramaswami Sastri, concurrently with my duties as the Supervising Pundit of the Cataloguing Section of the University Oriental Manuscripts Library, Trivandrum.
Books Il passato ed il presente delle principali teorie geometriche, storiae e bibliografia; (1896, 2nd edn., 1907, 3rd edn.; Torino: Carlo Clausen);, 1931, 4th edn., Padova: A.
Some of Brack-Bernsen's most recent work focuses on a new understanding of column Φ in Babylonian lunar theory, and how this column relied on some of the lunar six values to predict the times and durations of lunar eclipses.
For Kline, an appreciation for rigor took time to be developed and it was ill-advised to teach the abstract before the concrete.
Rabinovitch was an authority on the writings of Maimonides, about which he published numerous books and essays.
He was a member of Jungius company in Hamburg, the Leopoldina, the International Academy of the History of Science, and since 1995 the Göttingen Academy of Sciences.
References Citations Sources External links Encyclopaedia Judaica (2007) entry on "Steinschneider, Moritz" by Menahem Schmelzer and Gregor Pelger (2nd ed.).
He received his DSc in mathematics from the University of Calcutta in 1929 for his dissertation titled "Derivation and Non-Differentiable functions".
He would join France in the 80s and form with Bahgat Elnadi the binomial of political scientists and scholars of Islam known under the pseudonym Mahmoud Hussein.
Sonja Brentjes (born 1951) is a German historian of science, historian of mathematics, and historian of cartography known for her work on mapmapking and mathematics in medieval Islam.
Stigler is also known for Stigler's law of eponymy which states that no scientific discovery is named after its original discoverer – whose first formulation he credits to sociologist Robert K.
They were also the coauthors of a book on Ibrahim ibn Sinan, Ibrāhīm ibn Sinān: Logique et géométrie au Xe siècle (Brill, 2000).
in 1977 with his thesis Ontological Commitment in Ideal Languages: Semantic Interpretations for Logical Positivism.
He is a co-editor, with Friedrich Hirzebruch, Reinhold Remmert, Walter Purkert, and Egbert Brieskorn, of the collected works of Felix Hausdorff.
Biography Katz received in 1963 from Princeton University a bachelor's degree and in 1968 from Brandeis University a Ph.D.
Selected works To Infinity and Beyond: A Cultural History of the Infinite, 1991, Princeton University Press.
The Munich Project CIP: Volume II: The Programme Transformation System CIP-S (Lecture Notes in Computer Science).
After the annexation of the Papal States into the Kingdom of Italy (1870), he refused further participation in the new Academy of the Lincei, and did not accept the appointment as Senator of the Kingdom offered by Quintino Sella.
They traveled with their son to North Korea, where Seltman worked as a teacher, but, bored with the North Korean cult of personality and their life there, left for China in 1965, just in time for the Cultural Revolution.
Becker utilized not only Husserlian phenomenology but, much more controversially, Heideggerian hermeneutics, discussing arithmetical counting as "being toward death".
Butzer is a member of the Royal Society of Sciences in Liège and the Royal Belgian Academy of Sciences.
In 1927 he was appointed chairman of the Mathematics Department at Harvard, a position he held until his retirement in 1940.
She is the co-editor, with Irish mathematician Mark McCartney, of the book Mathematicians and their Gods: Interactions between mathematics and religious beliefs (Oxford University Press, 2015), on connections between mathematics and religion.
She also serves as Librarian of the London Mathematical Society and a member of the council of the British Society for the History of Mathematics.
He is a full professor emeritus in the Department of Philosophy at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Jerusalem, Israel.
He has authored several books on the history of statistics; he is the son of the economist George Stigler.
During the academic year 1980–1981 Schwermer was a visiting scholar at the Institute for Advanced Study.
As part of the Council, Simons was part of the committee on arrangements for the meeting and exhibition commemorating the bi-centenary of the death of Sir Isaac Newton.
They described this as "infinitesimal mathematics" and leading back to the historical roots in Leibniz.
Teubner, Leipzig 1906 (im Internet-Archiv, bei der Cornell University) Der Eulersche Dilogarithmus und seine Verallgemeinerungen, E.
Awards Brage Prize, 1996 Norsk språkpris, 2001 Norwegian Academy Prize in memory of Thorleif Dahl, 2008 Doblougprisen 2010 == References ==
Eli Maor (Hebrew: אלי מאור; born 4 October 1937) is a mathematician and historian of mathematics, best known for several books about mathematics and its history written for a popular audience.
Scriba was on the Executive Committee of the International Commission on the History of Mathematics and its president from 1977 to 1985.
Part one has 21 chapters that describe in depth several important Chinese mathematicians and mathematical classics including Liu Hui, Shen Kuo, Qin Jiushao, Sun Tzu, The Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art, Mathematical Treatise in Nine Sections, Li Ye, Zhu Shijie and study on π.
Historiographical Proposal for Non-Western Mathematics, in Helaine Selin (ed.), Mathematics Across Cultures.
Von Neumann intended this to be a memo to the study group, but Goldstine typed it up into a 101-page document that named von Neumann as the sole author.
In 1985–1994 Dauben served as the chair of the Executive Committee of the International Commission on the History of Mathematics.
"On the Attraction of Ellipsoids, with a new demonstration of Clairaut's Theorem, being an account of the late Prof MacCullagh's lectures", Trans RI Academy 1855.
He is commemorated in the naming of the small pavilion, now used as changing rooms and toilets, on Jesus Green in Cambridge.
ISBN 0946544719; 47 pages{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: postscript (link) Chant, Colin; Fauvel, John, eds.
Her book Arrels germàniques de la matemàtica contemporània: amb una antologia de textos matemàtics de 1850 a 1950 won the Serra d'Or Critic's Prize in 2013.
Part II deals with important wasan mathematicians and their works, including Kambei Mori, Yoshida Koyu, Kowa Seki, Imamura Chisho, Takahara Kisshu, Kurushima, Ajima Chokuyen, Aida Ammei, Shiraishi Chochu, Skabe Kohan, and Hagiwara Teisuke.
Part III: Symmetrization and the isoperimetric and least area problems" (PDF), Rivista di Matematica della Università di Parma, (1), 10: 257–263, MR 0141762, Zbl 0107.27402.
Engel translated the works of Nikolai Lobachevski from Russian into German, thus making these works more accessible.
Translations and other works Note: Only first editions are listed; many of these titles have been reprinted several times.
His name is mentioned in almost all works on Qing history or Chinese classics because of the wide range of his research and publications.
He was a Benjamin Peirce Instructor at Harvard University in 1957, and researcher at MIT Lincoln Laboratory 1959 to 61 when he lectured at University of California Berkeley.
There he considered the problem of isomonodromy deformations for a certain matrix Fuchsian equation; this is a special case of Hilbert's 21st Problem (existence of differential equations with prescribed monodromy).
Markushevich was elected in 1945 a corresponding member and in 1950 a full member of Академии педагогических наук РСФСР (Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic).
Books Jami is the author of: Les Méthodes rapides pour la trigonométrie et le rapport précis du cercle (1774).
Among his more than 200 publications were translations of the works of Archimedes (1880 and 1912), Euclid (with Heinrich Menge) (1883–1916), Apollonius of Perga (1891–93), Serenus of Antinouplis (1896), Ptolemy (1898/1903), and Hero of Alexandria (1899).
Stein's work was centered on the philosophy of physics, as well as the history of physics and mathematics.
As a child, she was cast from a field of 12,000 4-H members to play a small part in The Green Promise (1948) as farm girl Jessie Wexford, the sister of Natalie Wood's character's love interest.
After teaching mathematics and violin for a year at the Mount Allison Ladies' College he went to Harvard where he received a B.A.
The problem is this: Given n lines L, with points P(L) on them, find the locus of points Q, such that the lengths of the line segments QP(C) satisfy certain conditions.
Li discovered independently an equivalent version of what is known today as Descartes' rule of signs.
I, New York: John Wiley & Sons, ISBN 978-0-471-18994-7, MR 0632548 Curtis, Charles W.; Reiner, Irving (1987), Methods of representation theory.
Yvonne Dold-Samplonius : Calculating Surface Areas and Volumes in Islamic Architecture, The Enterprise of Science in Islam, New Perspectives, Eds.
(1974), Linear Algebra, Pearson Allyn & Bacon, ISBN 978-0205040087 References External links Pictures of C.
From 1900 until his death, Méray campaigned for the introduction of Esperanto into the scientific world and presented his case to the French Academy of Sciences in 1901.
He earned a PhD in the History of Science (with minors in Physics and Intellectual History) from the University of Wisconsin in 1965.
References External links O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Boris Vladimirovich Gnedenko", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews Boris Vladimirovich Gnedenko at the Mathematics Genealogy Project
See also Robert of Chester al-Khwārizmī References External links LCK as a chess player Mathematics Genealogy Louis C.
He was briefly an assistant in Munich and Darmstadt, before he went into the teaching profession in Günzburg, Nördlingen.
Yvonne Dold-Samplonius : Calculation of Arches and Domes in 15th Century Samarkand, Nexus Network Journal, Vol.
She is a professor at Paris Diderot University, where she is associated with the Centre de recherche sur les civilisations de l'Asie orientale (CRCAO).
In 1983, he was also a visiting professor at the Center for Interdisciplinary Research at Bielefeld University (as part of the project The probabilistic revolution 1800–1930).
He is perhaps best known for his work with Kolmogorov, and his contributions to the study of probability theory, particularly extreme value theory, with such results as the Fisher–Tippett–Gnedenko theorem.
He did his undergraduate studies at Harvard University from 1963 to 1966 and stayed there for his Ph.D., which he received in 1973 under the supervision of John Emery Murdoch and G.
Education and career Mulcahy got his BSc and MSc in mathematical science at University College Dublin in 1978 and 1979, and a PhD from Cornell University in 1985 where his advisor was Alex F.
In addition to numerous book publications and specialist articles on various questions in the history of mathematics, he has published several books on mathematical games in recreational mathematics (often in collaboration with Konrad Haase).
Due to his collaboration on a 1977 paper with the Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős, Wilson has an Erdős number of 1.
He was co-editor of the works of Leibniz, of Nicholas of Cusa, and of Johann Bernoulli as well as a mathematical history of Abraham Gotthelf Kästner.
Her book on Noether, Emmy Noether, 1882–1935 (Birkhäuser 1970) has been translated into both Japanese and English (Heidi I.
She is a founding member of the Association for Women in Mathematics; she has also served as its vice president, and as the vice president of the American Association of University Professors.
He was the first Chairman of the United Kingdom Mathematics Trust, from October 1996 to April 2004, succeeded by Bernard Silverman.
4 (1984): 309–376 doi:10.1007/BF00348405 with Henk Bos and Kirsti Andersen: Træk af den matematiske analyses historie: En antologi af kilder og sekundær litteratur, Center for Vidensskabstudier, Aarhus University, 1987 with H.
His father Rudolph Neugebauer was a railroad construction engineer and a collector and scholar of Oriental carpets.
Paul Leo Butzer (born 15 April 1928) is a German mathematician who specializes in Analysis (Approximation theory, Harmonic analysis).
Publications Posy's areas of research interest include the philosophy of mathematics, philosophical logic, the history of philosophy (particularly Kant and his predecessors).
The four volumes cover many branches of mathematics and represent a 15-year effort by Newman to collect what he felt were the most important essays in the field.
She was co-editor (with Pierre Costabel) of the correspondence of Johann Bernoulli (Birkhäuser 1988, 1992) and published a French translation of the geometry of Albrecht Dürer.
Upon graduation, he became an assistant professor at the Faculty of Science of the University of Iași and began his research activity under the guidance of his advisor, Alexander Myller.
In 2005, she married Clements, another Australian mathematics educator and long-term collaborator; he moved to Illinois State to join her.
in the history of science at the University of Bari in 2006, with the dissertation Regiomontano e il rinnovamento del sapere matematico e astronomico nel Quattrocento directed by Carlo Maccagni.
Between 1643 and 1689 Wallis served as chief cryptographer for Parliament and, later, the royal court.
The house in which Tropfke was born was built by his grandfather Franz Joseph Tropfke around 1830 and is one of the few houses in the area that was not destroyed during World War II.
In 1861 Hultsch was again employed at the Kreuzschule, where he was the rector from 1868 until his retirement in 1889.
1965 Moscow Interview with Sofya Yanovskaya, Eugene Dynkin Collection of Mathematics Interviews, Cornell University Library (in Russian).
In addition, Biggs examined the ideas of William Ludlam, Thomas Harriot, John Arbuthnot, and Leonhard Euler.
She became a corresponding member of the International Academy of the History of Science in 1988, and a full member in 1998.
Judith (Judy) Green (born 1943) is an American logician and historian of mathematics who studies women in mathematics.
Career Grabiner was an instructor at Harvard for several years, before she and her husband Sandy Grabiner moved to California.
Hot lead typesetting for the work had already started when the Siege of Leningrad prohibited further development and the print matrices were relocated.
Education and career Field earned a PhD in 1981 at Imperial College of the University of London; her dissertation, Kepler's Geometrical Cosmology, was supervised by A.
During World War II, Kline was posted to the Signal Corps of the United States Army, and stationed at Belmar, New Jersey.
This was published in 1979 and spawned translations into many other languages as well, including a retranslation into Russian and an English edition.
Repenser l'ordre, repenser l'héritage: Paysage intellectuel du Japon (xviie-xixe siècles), edited with Frédéric Girard and Mieko Macé, Droz 2002.
References External links Louis Kollros at the Mathematics Genealogy Project Louis Kollross, Nachlass at ETH Zürich
Gillies is probably best known for his work on Bayesian confirmation theory, his attempt to simplify and extend Popper’s theory of corroboration.
Kitagawa) is an author of multiple books in Japanese and English including a national bestseller (2012) in Japan.
Curtis, Charles W.; Reiner, Irving (1962), Representation theory of finite groups and associative algebras, Pure and Applied Mathematics, Vol.
2008,9: Mathematics 6000 years – a cultural and historical journey through time, 2 vols, Springer 2009: Eagle Guide From Gauss to Poincaré – Mathematics and Industrial Revolution, Leipzig Edition on Gutenbergplatz (Eagle 037) 2010: Eagle Guide From Leonardo da Vinci and Galileo Galilei.
Instead, she went to the University of London from 1894 to 1896, and earned a bachelor's degree there.
Master of pure and applied mathematics, Springer Verlag 1990 Heaviside's operational calculus and the attempts to rigorise it, Archive for History of Exact Sciences, Volume 21, 1979, pp.
He became a faculty member at the University of São Paulo, took a visiting position at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario in 1990, and was brought to Colby College by Keith Devlin, who had recently been hired as department chair there.
Life and work Netz was born January 2, 1968, in Tel Aviv, Israel to Israeli author Corinna Hasofferett and Yoel Netz, a translator of Russian classics.
Ioan James, Asperger's Syndrome And High Achievement: Some Very Remarkable People, Jessica Kingsley Pub, 2005.
It also includes studies of Greek, Latin, Chinese, medieval Islamic and European, and modern mathematics.
In 1887 he received his PhD (Über lineare homogene Differentialgleichungen vierter Ordnung, zwischen deren Integralen homogene Relationen höheren als ersten Grades bestehen.) His thesis advisors were Lazarus Immanuel Fuchs and Leopold Kronecker.
His fame rests mainly upon his authorship of Greek Geometry from Thales to Euclid, first published in Dublin in 1889, and republished several times subsequently.
Book publishing activities He was head of the editorial office of mathematics of the Soviet Издательство технико-теоретической литературы (Publishing House of Technical and Theoretical Literature) from 1934 to 1937 and again from 1943 to 1947.
He is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and a fellow of the New York Academy of Sciences (since 1982).
Writings With Claude Schochet, Global Analysis on Foliated Spaces, MSRI Publications, Springer Verlag 1988, 2nd ed., Cambridge University Press 2006.
3, Birkhäuser Verlag 1986, ISBN 3-7643-1759-0, doi:10.1007/978-3-0348-5226-5_2 External links Literature by and about Joachim Schwermer in the German National Library catalogue Homepage at the University of Vienna == References ==
Promoted from a department head at the Karl-Sudhoff Institute, he headed the institute from 1977 to 1982.
Carl Benjamin Boyer also praised Kline for a detailed discussion of more recent developments in mathematics.
He left Groton to accept a teaching position at Harvard and in 1902 was given an assistant professorship, but took two years off to further his education with studies in Turin, Italy before receiving his doctorate from the University of Bonn.
He was one of few historians of mathematics of his time to "keep open links with contemporary history of science." Early life and education Boyer was born in Hellertown, Pennsylvania, on November 3, 1906, and graduated as valedictorian of his high school class.
Hultsch specialized in historical metrology and textual criticism concerning mathematical antiquity.
In 1900 Moritz Cantor received the honor of giving a plenary address at the International Congress of Mathematicians in Paris (Sur l'historiographie des mathématiques).
At his Valedictory Symposium when he retired, Henk spoke on fluid concepts in mathematics in a talk titled "Loose Ends".
In his studies of Babylonian astronomy, he went beyond analyses in terms of modern mathematics to seek to understand how the Babylonians conceived their computational schemes.
From 1951 to 1952 and from 1963 to 1966, he was among the initiators and editors of Энциклопедия элементарной математики (Encyclopedia of Elementary Mathematics).
He moved to the University of Nice to found the Department of Mathematics in 1964, and retired in 1970.
With Frank Swetz, he was a founding editor of a free online journal on the history of mathematics under the aegis of the MAA; the journal is called Convergence: Where Mathematics, History, and Teaching Interact.
ISBN 978-0-470-37353-8 Present at the Creation: The Story of CERN and the Large Hadron Collider, 2010.
Work Laugwitz worked in differential geometry of infinite dimensional vector spaces (his dissertation) and in Finsler geometry.
There is a bibliography of Hald's writings on the history of statistics at Anders Hald (1913–2007): Writings on the History of Probability and Statistics in the Electronic Journal for History of Probability and Statistics.
Yabuuchi's best known work on the history of Chinese mathematics, 支那数学史 (History of Chinese mathematics, published in 1944), was translated into French with the title Une histoire des mathématiques chinoises (2000, Editions Belin) by Kaoru Baba and Catherine Jami.
University career For political reasons he was compelled to leave Vienna and decided to go to Berlin; but, being unable to obtain the necessary passport, he remained in Leipzig.
Volume 3 of the "History of Hindu Mathematics" was edited by Kripa Shankar Shukla and published in several papers in the Indian Journal of History of Science (Vol.
Contributions to mathematics Shtokalo published several works on the history of mathematics, specifically on advancements made by Ukrainian mathematicians.
Gresham College ethos is very similar to my own ethos" In August 2012, Flood was appointed Gresham Professor of Geometry at Gresham College for a period of three years, replacing John D.
Kollros, the son of a baker, was from 1896 as a student of mathematics and physics at the Zurich Polytechnikum, where he was a fellow student of Albert Einstein and Marcel Grossmann.
ISBN 978-1-56858-048-7 Fermat's Last Theorem: Unlocking the Secret of an Ancient Mathematical Problem, 1997.
Itō was an honorary professor of University of Tokyo and International Research Center for Japanese Studies, and a professor of Reitaku University, and the Chairman of Japan Seaology Promotion Organization.
In 1925 he matriculated at the First Central Asian State University (now the National University of Uzbekistan).
He received a bachelor's degree from Columbia College in 1928 and started working as a tutor at Brooklyn College in the same year.
In September 2019, the Pakistan Cricket Board named it as one of the venues to host matches in the 2019–20 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy.
His sculptural model of the Key Savings and Loan Association is still intact and held in a collection of his drawings and works at the Denver Public Library.
The surface differs from the particles stuck in adhesion techniques, in that they are more of a rubber carpet, cut to size then tightly seamed together (in the linear direction along the lane lines).
RacingLoop were brought in as consultants and Hermann Tilke was charged with the design of a circuit intended to draw in MotoGP and the Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters, however ground was not broken until 2014.
The hill was originally constructed in 1961, and renovated in 1991 and 1992, but had to be moved slightly as the Bothnia Line railway line was being built.
If the border is frozen to the ice during play, this can be hazardous to the players, and the referee can therefore decide to start or continue the game without such border.
This gives children more time and control so they can serve, rally, and score from the first lesson on courts that are sized to fit their bodies.
A boulodrome is a venue designed for training and competitions involving ball and skittle games (such as pétanque, boule lyonnaise, boule bretonne, jeu provençal, and others).
Women In professional sumo, women are not allowed to enter or touch the dohyō, a tradition stemming from Shinto and Buddhist beliefs that women are "impure" because of menstrual blood.
Of these over 300,000 workers were greenskeepers for golf courses, schools, resorts, and public parks.
Frederick Heath (April 15, 1861 – March 3, 1953) was an American architect responsible for numerous projects in Tacoma, Washington.
The centers are located in the provinces of Ankara, Adana, Antalya, Artvin, Bolu, Bursa, Erzurum, Gaziantep, İzmir, Kahramanmaraş, Kayseri, Kocaeli, Konya, Mersin, Rize, Sakarya, Samsun and Trabzon, usw.
All through his career, Bolles was "a strong believer in the artistic embellishment of public buildings." For the 1939 fair he not only assisted his father, but also worked under the Spanish-American muralist Jose Moya del Pino on murals for the Temple of Religion and for the State Ballroom.
In modern usage, the term "bleachers", which is not used outside North America, almost always refers only to the seating area, and those sitting there may be called "bleacher fans" or "bleacherites".
Indoor sports facilities includes courts for badminton, basketball, and volleyball, and a wrestling arena.
The lowest attendance was at the 2021 edition in Latvia, where fans were banned due to the COVID-19 pandemic except for one game attended by 934 people.
Football fields were used soon after this, by pouring water on them in the wintertime to get a good, flat and safe ice surface.
He played cover point and centre for the Harvard Crimson men's ice hockey team and was the third consecutive Newton High School graduate (after George Owen and Tad Crosby) to serve as captain of the freshman squad.
Alternative speed skating tracks Although ISU regulations state that minimum measures for a standard speed skating track, alternative track lengths may be used for competition.
In the United States, college sports are very popular and at least one significant ice hockey league retains an amateur requirement.
Other ventures Rickard sought to repeat the success of the Madison Square Garden by building seven "Madison Square Gardens" around the country.
Emory Daniel Jones (April 7, 1897 – September 15, 1977) was an American sports promoter who was the manager of the St.
The new arena is expected to be finished by the end of 2027, and will replace the original Palau Blaugrana, which is across the street and currently serves as the home arena for Barcelona's basketball, handball and futsal teams.
Honors Brown was honored by having the NBA championship trophy named after him after he died in 1964.
After the death of his first wife, he married Mary Edith Thompson Gramlich, a widow with two daughters, Sybil and Jane, January 17, 1936.
The park is popular for sports, and contains a number of facilities for not only running, but also soccer, tennis, volleyball, and basketball.
One of the more unusual entrants was a Kurtis Kraft roadster for Akton Miller, a car constructed in the US, with a powerful 6.4 litre Chrysler engine, mounted on a space-frame single seat chassis, designed for use on American oval circuits.
However, some high capacity venues were used for baseball, cricket, Gaelic games, rugby union, rugby league, Australian rules football and Canadian football.
The car swerved to the left of the track, bounced over a three-meter deep and four-meter wide protection ditch and a fence and crashed into the grandstand, killing him along with 22 spectators.
For playing rules relating to the batter's box, see Rules 6.05 and 6.06 of the Official Baseball Rules.
The seating capacity must also be disclosed to the copyright owner in seeking a license for the copyrighted work to be performed in that venue.
It is a thick line, and in the NHL must "contain regular interval markings of a uniform distinctive design, which will readily distinguish it from the two blue lines" (i.e.
The RusSki Gorki Jumping Center is a ski jumping venue located in the Esto-Sadok village on the northern slope of Aibga Ridge in Krasnaya Polyana, Russia.
The traps direct the spent bullets to a collection area in front of the trap or, for high-energy projectiles, at the back of the trap.
Venue and general configuration Since 1980, all figure skating competitions have been held in completely covered and enclosed rinks.
The early slalom courses were all set in natural rivers, but when whitewater slalom became an Olympic sport for the first time, at the 1972 Munich Games, the venue was the world's first concrete-channel artificial whitewater course, the Eiskanal in Augsburg.
It is also known from archaeological excavations that ballcourts were the sites of sumptuous feasts, although whether these were conducted in the context of the ballgame or as another event entirely is not as yet known.
However, due to concerns regarding pitch conditions and overall readiness, the club's home matches were relocated to Bolpur Stadium in the neighbouring Birbhum district.
The 2024 tournament, in Prague and Ostrava (Czech Republic), holds the record for overall attendance and the record for average spectators per game.
The Open Championship is an annual golf competition established in 1860, and is organised by The R&A.
Construction began in the second quarter of 2021 to be built and was to be homologated by 2023, the year the Hungarian motorcycle Grand Prix had been expected to return.
Future Bright Group opened Future Bright Ice Rink in Future Bright Amusement Park (1992) Aberdeen Club opened Aberdeen Marina Club Ice Rink in Aberdeen Marina Club (1993) ETON Properties opened Sky Rink in Dragon Centre (1994).
In addition, there must be 1.00 m between courts, both lengthwise and widthwise, resulting in a total of 65.00 m in length (3.00 m between the four courts and 2.00 m at the edges) and 26.00 m in width.
In the sport of cricket, the cricket pitch refers not to the entire field of play, but to the section of the field on which batting and bowling take place in the centre of the field.
The school's main indoor arena, Conte Forum (also known as Kelley Rink for hockey games), is directly attached to its football venue, Alumni Stadium.
They are ideal for the urban areas that would benefit from a contained area where children can play safely.
In league each team can be tackled six times before handing over possession; moreover, the action stops after each successful tackle (i.e., the ball is not contested after a tackle).
This can include areas such as roads, sidewalks, parking lots maintenance and repair (including snow removal).
This came after rugby league accused rugby union of "shamateurism" to Inland Revenue in the UK and due to Kerry Packer signing top union players to professional contracts in secret for a breakaway union competition.
The arena will serve as the new home arena for the basketball (Barcelona Bàsquet), handball (Barcelona Handbol) and Futsal (Barcelona Futsal) sections of the multi-sports club Barcelona.
The highest number of events on the list have been promoted by the Pride Fighting Championships (PRIDE), the largest mixed martial arts (MMA) promotion company in Japan until 2007.
This may be achieved by an automatic floor watering facility – whereby the floor is watered from sprinklers above it, by regular watering with hoses and ground-based sprinklers or by underground irrigation using e.g.
Currently, Tianchi Lodge offers 3 rooms for twelve people, 4 rooms for eight people, and 5 rooms for four people, which can accommodate a total of 88 people.
The pitch is prepared differently from the rest of the field, to provide a harder surface for bowling.
The crash was caused when two racing cars apparently lost control and collided with a group of spectators during the 17th race of the 1500cc Ford Laser Mazda 323 category.
Some activities played on a game court are enjoyable modifications of other sports (such as short-court tennis) that allow for similar skills to be developed as the 'regulation' game, but on a reduced-scale court size.
Estadio Jalisco: Futbol Club Atlas and Guadalajara until Guadalajara moved to their new home of Estadio OmniLife in 2010.
Rules regarding the shape of goalposts and crossbars are somewhat more lenient, but they have to conform to a shape that does not pose a threat to players.
11 December 1961 Demonstrations Stadium (Arabic: ملعب مظاهرات 11 ديسمبر 1961), is a multi-use stadium in Chelghoum Laïd, Algeria.
Fourteen tournaments have had averages over 9,000 spectators per game (including 1972 edition which is not the top 30 most attended tournaments by total attendance), and eight have topped the 10,000 mark.
This has been supplanted by an advanced video system, which allows measurements in 0.5-meter increments.
Career Boston Garden After spending months lobbying Boston Garden treasurer George Clare for a job, Powers was hired as an accounting clerk in January 1929.
On 27 September 2022, it was announced that the circuit would host the Kazakhstan motorcycle Grand Prix until at least 2028 starting in 2023.
Cages vary: some replace the metal fencing with a net, others have a different shape from an octagon, as the term "The Octagon" is trademarked by the UFC (although the 8-sided shape itself is not trademarked).
The football-crazy Bengali was nowhere to be seen, as they faced stiff resistance from their families to attend the next set of matches.
Anoeta Sports Complex (Spanish: Ciudad deportiva Anoeta; Basque: Anoetako kirolgunea) is a sports area located at the south of the city of Donostia (San Sebastián), Basque Country of Spain.
Oslo announced in January 2004 that they, jointly with Lillehammer, planned to bid for the 2014 Winter Olympics.
One example of a death on stage was described by Hung Gar Grandmaster Chiu Kow (1895–1995), father of Grandmaster Chiu Chi Ling.
Louis Flyers (American Hockey Association/American Hockey League), vice president and general manager of the St.
All but one of the current tracks on this list are constructed of reinforced concrete and use artificial refrigeration to keep the track cool enough during early and late season to hold ice.
Ducey was an ice hockey reporter for the Hollywood News during that winter, then a sportswriter for the Edmonton Bulletin in 1931 and 1932.
A grandstand is a normally permanent structure for seating spectators, typically at sports stadiums and including both auto racing and horse racing.
Existing stadiums, most notably Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton and BC Place in Vancouver, have undergone major upgrades.
Life Jacobs was born to Polish-Jewish immigrants Moisha "Max" Jacobs, and Anna Blachmann in New York City, in 1900.
In general, a ground belongs only to the batter who is closest to it, and stays so until the other batter gets closer to it.
The Canopy Walk links the mall directly to most nearby landmarks, thus eliminating the need for pedestrians to cross the road or drive to get to places in the city.
The Port Imperial Street Circuit was a 2011 plan for a 3.2 mi (5.1 km) motor racing circuit in Weehawken and West New York, New Jersey, in the United States, to be constructed on the Hudson Waterfront around Weehawken Port Imperial.
On September 16, 1964, Powers was chosen to succeed the late Brown as president and general manager of the Boston Garden.
Materials A typical synthetic ice rink will consist of many panels (usually in typical building material sheet sizes) of thin surface material assembled on top of a sturdy, level and smooth sub-floor (anything from concrete to wood or even dirt or grass) to create a large skating area.
Hamilton's time as president began during a period of growth in junior hockey which saw CAHA registration increase to 13,675 players.
Various media outlets produce their own figures and sometimes these do not agree, but the differences in the averages given are usually no more than one or two percent.
These sunken court markers are almost invariably round and usually decorated with ballgame-related scenes or iconography.
In 1893, the box was replaced by the pitcher's plate, although "the box" is still used today as a slang term for the pitcher's location on the field.
Renovations between 2011 and 2016 included upgrades to the roof, façade, and air conditioning, chiller and surveillance systems.
It is a part of the Seefeld Nordic Competence Centre consisting of two hills, a normal hill with a hill size of HS109 (K-99) and medium hill with at HS75 (K-68).
In 2023, the intended installation of a MUGA at Much Hoole by the council noted potential impacts of noise, disturbance, and lighting, as well as questions about surround sporting facility usage, but this could be met by reduced hours of operation.
Alternatively, a new small hill could be built at the location of the demolished Midtstubakken, next to Holmenkollbakken.
He was made President of the Hershey Trust Company (1956) and then President of the Hershey Bank (1957).
Balatonring was to be a 4.650 km (2.889 mi) motor racing circuit, located in Sávoly, Hungary, on the western end of the Balaton.
The Matratzenlager is usually found in the attic of the hut and can consist of about 10 to 100 bedspaces.
A team caught with the ball in their own in-goal must restart play with a drop kick of the ball from between their posts, this usually results in the other team gaining possession.
The fanaticism in Kolkata regarding the Beautiful Game was gone and took nearly two decades to recover, until when the Salt Lake Stadium saw a record-breaking attendance of 131,000 in the 1997 Federation Cup.
He was also the longtime general manager of the Harris-owned Pittsburgh Hornets of the American Hockey League and served as league president from 1961 to 1964.
Reports have also suggested that the sports enclave will be a part of a future bid for the 2036 Summer Olympics from Ahmedabad.
Surface The surface of a game court—as opposed to simply playing on concrete or asphalt—is designed for safe play and to reduce injury.
Balmer died of a heart attack on December 8, 1968, after delivering an address at the Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
The process of building the dohyō and its 66-centimeter-high (26 in) platform takes three days and is done with traditional tools.
This sport complex will be the main site of 2013 Bolivarian Games that will be held in the city in November 2013.
In outdoor sports, field sizes may vary between American football and soccer requirements, or baseball fields.
In a professional game, the batter who is on deck traditionally waits in a location in the foul territory called the on-deck circle.
In February 2021, the Rio de Janeiro city government officially abandoned the Deodoro site as an option for the Rio race track.
It has a total area of 45,300 m² spread out on seven floors, and houses amongst other things a 1.2 km long indoor all-season skiing trail and a full-size football pitch with a spectator capacity of 3,300.
To help prevent the loss, Governor Hurtado proclaimed that, in Santiago, every 24th and 25 July, the commemoration of Saint Jacob - patron saint of the city -, the cattle would be gathered in the Plaza de Armas de Santiago to be branded and selected.
It shall be fitted with small spikes on underside to prevent the goal from being moved by the wind or by minor touch of a player, so that it stays in place.
It would be owned by the Provincial Government of Bohol (PGBh) and the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) is intended to set the preparatory activities and to conceptualize the detailed engineering design of the said project.
Starting in May 2020, the Nantou Branch of the Forestry Agency carried out a renovation project on the Tianchi Lodge for about four months, including exterior renovation, waterproofing, and surrounding facilities, in response to the policy of opening up the mountains and forests.
The disco craze from popular 1970s culture led to another increase in the popularity of roller rinks—or roller discos, as some became.
Opened in December 1896, the north side of the grounds featured the ice rink and a heated bandstand.
This race was marred by the death of at least 22 spectators as well as driver Emilio Materassi on lap 17, when Materassi lost control of his car on the main straight at over 200 km/h while trying to overtake Giulio Foresti.
History Although it was inaugurated in the presence of the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, the sports complex was built solely with funds from the FPF and with the support of 6.5 million from UEFA and 1 million from FIFA and without financial support from the Portuguese state.
He was named Edmonton's "Sportsman of the Year" in 1954 and 1957, and was inducted into the Edmonton Sports Hall of Fame in 1972.
Small-bore rifle Small-bore (.22 Long Rifle caliber) rifle ranges are typically 50 metres (55 yd) to accommodate the Olympic 50 m Rifle event, but they can extend to 200 metres (219 yd).
After they applied cable tension structure technique in this project, a lot of projects around the world started to implement this technique.
The High Huts of the White Mountains in New Hampshire are generally "full service" (cooks serve food) through summer and early fall, while some are open the rest of the year as self-service huts, at which hikers bring and prepare their own food.
Jiujiu Cabins uses a solar power system and is equipped with a lithium-ion battery energy storage system to cope with the intermittent nature of renewable energy.
This method was used at Shea Stadium (and continues at Shea's replacement, Citi Field) in New York, Oracle Park in San Francisco, and at Petco Park in San Diego.
Each team generally has its own bullpen consisting of two pitching rubbers and plates at regulation distance from each other.
Czech Republic hosted six of the top 30 most attended tournaments (including three tournaments held in Czechoslovakia) as well as three of the top 5 attended tournaments.
In addition, no attempts were made to enter through the second floor's window and the fire engine's ladder was not installed properly.
A standard ring is between 16 and 24 feet (4.9 and 7.3 m) to a side between the ropes with another 2 feet (0.61 m) outside.
There is no charge for use but neither are there any facilities – they have no electricity or piped water supply.
Bakee Mtaani (Basketball in the Hood) is a sports-based community program, an initiative of the Jonathan Jackson Foundation that focuses on building basketball courts in Nairobi, Kenya.
The Auto Club of Brescia took steps to try to combat the unsportsmanlike tactics by which some competitors sought to negate the procedure of drawing lots for departure times.
The term was coined by Jane Erkko, a Finnish figure skating official who was on the organizing committee for the 1983 World Figure Skating Championships which were held in Helsinki.
First introduced in the spring tournament of 1928, they are painted 90 cm (35 in) long, 6 cm (2+3⁄8 in) wide and 70 cm (28 in) apart.
Roman race-course At its simplest, the Roman race-course took the form of two posts; each called a discrimen or a meta, round which the runners, whether on foot, on horses or in chariots, raced.
In 1990, he was appointed a board member of the Korean Institute of Architects, and in 1994, he was appointed as a National plan-check Committee Member in the Ministry of Construction of South Korea.
The Sports complex Mansiche is the current home of Trujillo's professional sports teams, a city of northern Peru.
His share of Celtics ownership passed to his widow, Marjorie Brown, who sold the team the following year.
They have currently been 8 series released and they feature special Legends, Pride, and WEC style figures as well.
Some sporting venues can accommodate over one hundred thousand spectators, such as the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in the United States, which has a capacity of 257,325 people.
At one time, there were seats where the black area was, but because of distractions the seats were removed and the area painted black.
The main arena seats 2,000 and was home to the reborn Quebec Remparts of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League from 1997 to 1999 when they moved back to their traditional home at the Colisée Pepsi.
In November 2015, it was announced that the facility would be named the BioSteel Centre, after corporate sponsor BioSteel Sports Nutrition.
James Gilmore Balmer (June 18, 1894 – December 8, 1968) was an American sports and entertainment executive from Pittsburgh who worked for the Harris chain of theaters.
For pétanque, the dimensions of a boulodrome must be multiples of 15.00 m in length and 4.00 m in width (for example: 60.00 m × 20.00 m).
The project cost is ₱200 million and it is the largest project proposed by Former Bohol Governor Arthur Yap.
When World War II created a lack of playing opportunities, Mulligan worked for the railroad full time, rising to the position of assistant yardmaster.
Velodromes no longer in use List of oldest cycling tracks and velodromes This list exposes the oldest tracks around the world that are still existing today.
Rio de Janeiro's mayor-elect Eduardo Paes has ruled out building the racetrack in the Deodoro neighborhood, in the Camboatá forest, due to political agreements; he will evaluate another location for the racetrack's construction.
Tactics and plays are similar to those used in sports such as ice hockey, roller hockey and floorball.
It marked the first time the games had ever been held in Assam and only the second time in the Northeast, after Manipur.
Heath was known as the "Father of the Stadium" for his work on Stadium Bowl in Tacoma, one of his best-known projects.
A straight line drawn between the centers of the two on-deck circles should pass 10 feet (3 m) behind home plate.
From the 2015–16 season there are trial runs (city event in Moscow, Junior World Cup Seiseralm) and parallel competitions in ski areas (for example in Kühtai / Tyrol and on the Seiseralm / Italy).
The administration of the UFC Anti-Doping Program, including sanctioning decisions, will be handled exclusively and independently by Combat Sports Anti-Doping (CSAD), where the former FBI agent George Piro would serve as the independent administrator of the UFC's anti-doping program.
While working as a poker dealer and bartender at the Monte Carlo saloon and gambling hall, he and Wilson Mizner began promoting boxing matches.
In particular, the perpetrator of a crime would not know whether or not other users might be undercover police or security guards.
The International Association for Sports Surface Sciences (ISSS) is the union of labs and experts in the field of sports surfaces.
The length of a superpipe ranges from 400 ft (120 m) to 600 ft (180 m), depending on available terrain and construction funding.
Some units incorporate a built-in hydraulic or electric actuation system for raising and lowering the unit.
Many stadiums had a running track around the perimeter of the pitch allowing them to be used for athletics.
Entertainment industry Turnbuckles are used in nearly all rigging performed in the entertainment industry, including theatre, film, and live concert performances.
The field of play is a fixed size – 100 m (110 yards) long and 68 m (74 yards) wide and does not include the line markings, meaning all touchlines and dead ball lines are considered out of play.
Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment (MLSE), owner of Toronto FC, spent more than $21 million building the facility and pays rent for the land on a 20-year lease, with an aim to becoming the epicentre of soccer development in Canada.
With an average daily footfall of more than 80,000, it is one of the most visited places in Uttar Pradesh.
The Andreasried Velodrome (Erfurt, Germany) was originally built in 1885 but was entirely redeveloped in 2006–2007.
On November 30, 1978, the stadium set an attendance record that still has not been broken to this date.
In Canada and the United States, smaller stands are called bleachers, and are usually far more basic and typically single-tiered (hence the difference from a "grand stand").
The race was won by von Trips's American teammate Phil Hill; since von Trips was the only one who could challenge him, Hill won the World Championship with one race to go, becoming the first American driver to win the Formula One World Championship.
Indoor courts Some tennis courts are indoors, which allows play regardless of weather conditions and is more comfortable for spectators.
Consequently, the Kenyan government lifted the curfew and released the detained individuals unconditionally.
Grass courts were once among the most common tennis surfaces, but are now rare due to high maintenance costs, as they must be watered and mown often, and take a longer time to dry after rain than hard courts.
The team's ownership, Oilers Entertainment Group, ultimately decided on a downtown arena which would become Rogers Place.
Construction work on the 200 million Euro project had started on 6 November 2008, and the facility was due to host its first MotoGP race on 20 September 2009.
Cole worked closely with architect Alexander Ewing as Ewing's project manager on the new headquarters.
A basketball ground has seating capacity of 250 people where handball and volleyball matches can also be held.
To address this, tennis court contractors Grimshaw Sports developed Redgra in 1959 by adapting the company's existing mix used for tennis courts.
A new agreement was announced on June 27, 1936, where the BIHA agreed to the CAHA approving player transfers, and that all players suspended by the CAHA would not play in Great Britain.
All users of a bivouac are required to take their waste with them and leave everything in a tidy manner.
This foundation was founded by Iwamoto Kaoru (1902–1999), donating 530 million yen from his own means.
He was reelected in June 1953, but two months later, the Flyers folded and Jones resigned as league president.
Since the 2002–2003 season, Ruka has regularly hosted World Cup competitions, and sometimes also hosts the Continental Cup.
Security Because of the privacy afforded by changing rooms, they create a problem in the trade-off between security and privacy, where in it may be possible for crime to be perpetrated by people using the cover of privacy to sell drugs, or steal clothing from a department store.
Hamilton declared the playoffs were financially successful, and felt that the CAHA had the confidence of the Canadian public for tending to the "moral and physical uplift of our athletes".
Although this side effect can be positive for resistance training, skaters report missing out on the fun of effortless skating.
History Borderite Stadium, originally called Blaine High School Stadium, was first built in 1950, but became what it is more known as today after the renovations in the early 2020s.
At the time, the city of Philadelphia limited boxing contests to six rounds; since his arena was outside the city, he could, and did, stage 15-round bouts there.
1996–1997: Opening and closure of Yuen Long Plaza Ice Rink It was said that Sun Hung Kai Properties moved some of the equipment of Tsuen Wan Plaza and opened another rink in Yuen Long Plaza.
A bivouac box is a prefabricated shelter for mountain hikers or climbers, typically provides a sleeping area for 4–12 people.
Mountain bothy character Most bothies are ruined buildings which have been restored to a basic standard, providing a windproof and watertight shelter.
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special restaurants, merchandise stands, and lounge areas of the venue that are not otherwise available to standard ticketholders.
a car track) is a closed circuit, instead of a street circuit utilizing temporarily closed public roads.
Brown went on to become general manager of the Boston Bruins ice hockey team, and founding owner and general manager of the Boston Celtics men's professional basketball team.
MLSE would contribute to the cost of a parking study of Exhibition Place, leading to a new parking facility and the reconstruction of green space to replace the ball diamond.
Opinions differed amongst the other drivers as to who was directly to blame for the crash, and such differences remain to this day.
The Sevens Stadium is a venue for rugby, association football, Gaelic football, Australian football (Aussie rules football), netball, basketball, cricket, tennis, track and field, baseball, and concerts.
The 1978 season is often referred to as the best in the school's history, ending the season with a record of 11–2.
The firm grew, becoming become Cox Architecture, with offices across Australia as well as in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
Michael Carrick, CEO of Heads of The Valleys Development Company, said negotiations with the Welsh Government and Aviva would continue.
A swimming pool, swimming bath, wading pool, paddling pool, or simply pool, is a man-made structure designed to hold water to enable swimming and associated activities.
A Chapel-en-le-Frith MUGA, built in 2010 following community fundraising, was removed in October 2025 following ongoing noise complaints from some nearby residents, but lamented by other site users.
An enthusiastic Buckeyes football fan, for years he had seats in Ohio Stadium in the row behind fellow Daytonian Orville Wright, another enthusiastic fan.
Description After the failed Balatonring project, Hungary would once again try to build a circuit for MotoGP, this time to be built in Hajdúnánás near Debrecen.
At the time, the cattle in Chile were not well identified and it was not uncommon for the animals to get lost.
He completed the 992-mile distance in 10 hours, 27 minutes and 47 seconds- an average speed of 94.841 mph (152.632 km/h).
Construction As there are a number of professional boxing organizations, the standards of construction vary.
The cost to build the temporary structure with a seating capacity for 4,000 people was CA$2,000 (equivalent to $56,233 in 2025).
However, in September 2023, it was announced that MotoGP will be planning to return Hungaroring from 2025, and include Balaton Park Circuit as a reserve circuit for 2024 without mentioning this circuit.
In Canadian football, Hewitt managed the Toronto Argonauts from 1905 to 1907, served as vice-president of the Ontario Rugby Football Union, and helped organize the meeting which established the Inter-provincial Rugby Football Union in 1907.
The Hangzhou Yuhang International Sports Center (Chinese: 杭州余杭国际体育中心), often shortened to simply Yuhang International Sports Center, is an under-construction sports complex which includes a 60,000-seat football-specific stadium in Yuhang, Hangzhou, China.
A tree given to Sohn in the name of Adolf Hitler, who hosted the 1936 Summer Olympics where Sohn won his gold medal, is now located in the park.
The Tien Shan Pai Association states it was either 24 x 24 feet (7.3 m) or 30 x 30 feet (9.1 m) and 2–4 feet (1.2 m) high.
Closure of Tsuen Wan Plaza Ice Rink Unexpectedly, Tsuen Wan Plaza closed down and the site was rented to Jumpin Gym U.S.A.
Ancient Sinhalese built a pair of pools called "Kuttam Pokuna" in the kingdom of Anuradhapura, Sri Lanka, in the 6th century AD.
On some via ferratas, mountain trails, or long-distance hiking trails, they are used for overnight stays (bivouacs).
Chief Minister Lim Guan Eng noted that although PISA had been completed in 1997, its true value remained unknown and that Penevents was only beginning to break even in terms of revenue.
Fourteen courses have hosted the event, all links courses in Scotland, England and Northern Ireland.
Some outdoor league stadiums are equipped with either retractable or non-retractable roofs where weather conditions (such as rain or extreme heat/cold) would not allow a game to be played or watched effectively, comfortably or safely without such cover.
The plans were soon expanded from a training court to a public court with room for spectators, which became the hall now known as 'Hal1'.
Hamilton appointed a committee to oversee preparations for the 1938 British Empire Games, and named Edward Wentworth Beatty its chairman.
Commonwealth Games Youth games Commonwealth Paraplegic Games Commonwealth Winter Games See also List of Olympic venues List of stadiums in Canada References == External links ==
It consists of a football stadium, ice hockey arena and indoor arena, the first of which is also being used by Wieczysta Kraków to host their games.
Over the course of history, the existence of over eight thousand ski jumping hills in 48 countries was documented.
In cases like this, the ring announcer may inform the audience of how much time has passed (and will ordinarily do so every five minutes) and how much time remains.
The solution breaks down dense particles in the soil and loosens it up, decreasing compaction and allowing for aeration.
A ring announcer is an in-ring (and sometimes on-camera) employee or contractor for a boxing, professional wrestling or mixed martial arts event or promotion, who introduces the competitors to the audience.
Streambed slalom courses still outnumber concrete channels, but most international competition takes place in the more controlled environment of an artificial course.
For pleasure skating, rinks have been installed indoors at resorts and entertainment venues while newer installations are being made outdoors.
As in current day athletics, a white block was placed on one end of the track where the athletes would line up to place their feet and got ready to start of the race.
In this context, the public prosecutor's office was accused by the defense attorneys and the ranks of the co-plaintiffs of having investigated one-sidedly in the direction of those planning and executing the case.
Some leisure centres, particularly in Australia, are called aquatic centres, if their main facilities are pools for swimming, diving, and other aquatic sports.
Its aims are the exchange of information and ideas regarding testing sports surfaces such as sports hall floors, synthetic surfaces of athletic tracks and artificial turf surfaces.
Design and architecture The stadium’s design draws inspiration from Jinzhou’s coastal identity: Steel Grid Roof: A **273-meter-span steel grid roof** supported by diamond-shaped lattice arches, designed for seismic resilience.
The lead-acid battery energy storage system used to store electricity was old and not environmentally friendly.
A leisure centre, sports centre, or recreation centre is a purpose-built building or site, usually owned and provided by the local government authority, where people can engage in a variety of sports and exercise, and keep fit.
Early baseball games were often staged at fairgrounds, and the term "grandstand" came along when standalone baseball parks began to be built.
Origins The rink specifications originate from the ice surface of the Victoria Skating Rink in Montreal, constructed in 1862, where the first indoor game was played in 1875.
This combination of straight and tight turn combined the thrills of speed on the straights with those of danger as collisions and falls were likely on the turns.
The warning track is the part of the baseball field that is closest to the wall or fence and is made of a different material than the field.
The soccer field is the home field of Alacranes Del Norte, a first division soccer team with a capacity of 2,000.
From 2009 to 2012, it was home to the Quebec Kebs basketball franchise in the National Basketball League of Canada.
He graduated from the Bentley School of Accounting and Finance and the Northeastern University School of Business.
See also Valencian trinquet References External links Frontons.net List of trinquets all around the world
The proposal meant the loss of 200 parking spaces, which would be replaced by replacing an adjacent ball diamond with a new parking lot.
This damage displaced many teams and caused others, like the Western Carolina Catamounts football team, to move games behind closed doors.
Such examples of these would be terms such as "the arena of war", "the arena of love" or "the political arena".
During penalty shootouts all players other than the two goalkeepers and the current kicker are required to remain within this circle.
The British Cyclopaedia of the Arts, Sciences, History, Geography, Literature, Natural History, and Biography Volume 1 ABA to OPI London, UK: Wm.
A Redgra area was opened in October 1961 at the site of Harlow Sportcentre, which was completed in 1964.
Pitch Most of the action takes place in the centre of this ground, on a rectangular clay strip usually with short grass called the pitch.
Wade brings Ember to Cyclone Stadium to persuade Gale to reconsider the shutdown of her father's store.
In June 2017 a proposed taxpayer-funded guarantee of £210 million was rejected by the Welsh Government on the grounds that the financial risk was too great.
During five weeks in 1949 he arranged and promoted a welterweight boxing championship match between Sugar Ray Robinson and Kid Gavilán.
Rounded halls with seats (exedrae, ἐξέδραι) were built along the single depth sides of the palaestra for the use of philosophers, orators, and other scholars.
There still are professional fields without a proper warning track, however, such as Rogers Centre and Tropicana Field, which use brown-colored turf.
The display also included two versions of his wallpaper work The Animal That Looks Like a Llama but Is Really an Alpaca and a video running on a loop.
New Orleans Saints In 1966, Rose was on the screening committee that interviewed prospective owners for the league's expansion franchise in New Orleans.
General skating sessions for the public, and youth and adult hockey practices and games were regularly scheduled.
History In 2019, the Mehsana Municipality announced the construction of the cricket stadium and sports complex at the cost of ₹9 crore (equivalent to ₹11 crore or US$1.3 million in 2023).
Congresses The IAKS has been holding the international IAKS Congress for the design, construction, modernization and management of sports and leisure facilities every two years since 1969.
History Bakee Mtaani uses the game of basketball as a tool to address socio-economic challenges faced by the youth in Nairobi's informal settlements by providing access to courts for fun, team-building, and engagement.
Maserati experienced a debacle with only Scarlatti arriving in Brescia in fourth place overall, followed 15 minutes later by the Porsche 550 RS of Umberto Maglioli.
The term level playing field is also used metaphorically to mean fairness in non-sporting human activities such as business where there are notional winners and losers.
On 10 June 2009, the Ständerat (upper house of the Swiss parliament) defeated a proposal to lift the ban for the second time.
For business events and meetings the hotel has over 9,500 sq ft (880 m2) available which includes boardrooms and a business center.
Very little of the structure of this rectangular arena remains, which has been extensively documented by local historian Antonio Rodríguez Guillén "Chamizo".
The Philadelphia Flyers played the New York Rangers outdoors in the Winter Classic at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
However, there are no direct pedestrian links connecting this expansion to the main building, with visitors having to cross a road (Jalan PJS 11/15) to get to the Terrace from the main complex.
International competitions such as the Olympic Games led to more standardisation: two-straight oval tracks quickly became the norm, and gradually lap lengths reduced.
The Sevens is located at the intersection of the Dubai-Al Ain Road (E66) and the Jebel Ali-Lahbab Road (E77).
The rent agreement included a right of first offer clause, requiring that the Oilers be offered to local investors for a fixed price of US$70 million if a current or future owner announces their intent to re-locate it outside of Edmonton.
As envisioned, the ground floor of the building would normally have functioned as retail space, to be transformed each year for use by the race.
History The ground staged its maiden first-class match in 1998, and while it was the only match played here that year, regular matches have been held here since the 2005–06 season.
The walls also have a type of stirrup or foothold that aids in crossing over to the central arena, and sometimes stirrups on the arena side as well; these are used mostly by event staff if they need to intervene quickly in the case of an emergency.
By either estimation this is the worst accident, with respect to the number of lives lost, to occur at a Grand Prix, and the second-deadliest in motor racing history, being surpassed by the 1955 Le Mans disaster.
Some other tracks also follow these protocols, but others have a different arrangement of lines to suit their facility and to assist riders in holding a straight line and in avoiding drifting onto the flatter section below the bankings where they risk their tyres sliding out.
Brown ran the Celtics as a subsidiary of the Boston Garden-Arena Corporation until 1950, when he bought the team in his own name and took on former Providence Steamrollers owner Lou Pieri as a minority partner.
The government of Somalia, then led by the Supreme Revolutionary Council, intervened by threatening that if such brutalities did not cease, the Somali military would overthrow the Nairobi regime and occupy the country.
Table tennis is a very popular game in Durgapur; both boys and girls players of Durgapur have excelled in this game.
Up to 20 athletes could compete simultaneously on the tracks, but soon the tracks were reduced to 17.
The Bukit Kiara Sports Complex (Malay: Kompleks Sukan Bukit Kiara) is the main sports complex in Bukit Kiara, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
In some ballparks both bullpens are adjacent to each other while in others the bullpens are separated with each team's bullpen located on the side of the field corresponding with the same team's dugout.
Operation The CDFA hosts occasional courses, permanent centers and major sports and / or media events.
In 1969, the Dallas Cowboys used stadium bonds to finance the construction of Texas Stadium in Irving.
The winner would be chosen to act as a bodyguard to the emperor or a martial arts instructor for the Imperial Military.
Shumkent Stadium is a former commercial dock and it is intended that the new stadium will become the heart of a new mixed-use development in the area containing shops, housing, gym and other venues.
Another interesting inscription, embedded on the eastern side of the support wall, is that forbidding to take out the wine destined for sacred rituals.
Over the years, the Mountain Bothies Association has developed a Bothy Code that sets out the main points users should respect: Bothies are used entirely at users' own risk.
He is the founding partner of Cox Architecture, one of the largest architectural practices in Australia.
In an effort to broaden the sport's appeal, the number of top division teams was increased from a mere 8 (as late as 1991) to 16 (starting in 1998), leading to an influx of lesser teams that could negatively impact average attendance.
See also List of tennis stadiums by capacity No-line court References External links International Tennis Federation (ITF) – Tennis court construction guidelines
The Buffalo Sabres and New York Rangers played during the 2018 NHL Winter Classic, played at Citi Field in Queens, New York, on January 1, 2018.
The Garissa massacre or Bulla karatasi massacre was a 1980 massacre of ethnic Somali residents by the Kenyan government in the Garissa District of the North Eastern Province, Kenya.
In 1914, he was hired by the Chicago Whales to design Weeghman Park, which would later become Wrigley Field.
The Borderites won the game 39–8 led by head coach Jack Irion as they advanced to their first and only state championship game appearance, which they won against Granger by a score of 20–7.
The Institute of Groundsmanship is the world's largest not-for-profit organisation representing grounds men.
Caylor, using the original meaning, noted in a game recap: "The bull-pen at the Cincinnati grounds with its 'three for a quarter crowd' has lost its usefulness.
Mechanical aeration Soil aeration may be artificially enhanced by using mechanized or manual equipment to either puncture the soil with spikes (spike aeration) or remove approximately 1 in × 2 in (25 mm × 51 mm) cores of soil from the ground (core aeration).
The grounds manager is responsible for the management of staff, money, materials and equipment utilized in maintaining and enhancing a landscaped site including turf, trees, woody ornamentals and flowers, outdoor structure and related facilities.
The home of the Duke University men's and women's basketball teams would qualify as an arena, but the facility is called Cameron Indoor Stadium.
See also Valby Idrætspark Footnotes and references External links (in English) Leading proposal at company website (in Danish) All proposals for new development of the Valby Idrætspark area
Paul Greyhounds, Minneapolis Millers, and Kansas City Greyhounds), Western Canada Hockey League (Saskatoon Crescents), Central Hockey League (Duluth Natives), Canadian–American Hockey League (Boston Cubs and Providence Reds), and Michigan Ontario Hockey League (Toledo Babcocks) from 1927 to 1942.
In this role, Rose headed up the league's babysitting program, which employed about 150 men to steer college prospects away from the rival American Football League.
The base on the goal line measures 22 feet (6.7 m) — widened from the original 18 feet (5.5 m) for the 2014-15 NHL season onwards — and the base along the end boards measures 28 feet (8.5 m), with the depth behind the goal line-to-boards distance specified at 11 feet (3.4 m).
Dan Meis, FAIA, RIBA (born 1961) is an American architect known for designing sports and entertainment facilities including Staples Center, Safeco Field, Paycor Stadium, Saitama Super Arena, Stadio Della Roma, and Everton FC's Hill Dickinson Stadium.
His designed the 1914 public library on Railroad Avenue and Fifth, Stadium Bowl in Tacoma, and Paradise Inn at Mount Rainier.
As curling is played on ice, the name has been retained for the construction of ice areas for other sports and uses.
The magazine is read mainly in Germany and the rest of Europe as well as in North, Central and South America, Africa and Australia.
The Magyar Nemzetkozi Motodrome (English: Hungarian National Motodrome) was a planned motorsport racetrack project in Hajdúnánás, Debrecen, Hajdú-Bihar County, Hungary.
However, only 147 ski jumping hills at 95 venues in 87 localities are homologated for international competitions.
There were also 3 Commonwealth Winter Games held in St Moritz 2 years after the summer Commonwealth Games, and 4 Commonwealth Paraplegic Games held immediately before and after the summer Commonwealth Games.
During his professional career, Mulligan supplemented his income by working for a railroad in Canada.
Design and seating The batter's eye area is usually painted or otherwise decorated in black, dark green, or another color dark enough to allow batters to track the flight of the white ball.
In 2017 Geoff Allan published The Scottish Bothy Bible (referred to in the table as SBB), detailing all MBA bothies in Scotland as well as many other non-MBA bothies.
The first two 2020 NTT IndyCar Series meetings at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway (GMR Grand Prix and Indianapolis 500) were held without fans in attendance.
It has hosted one FIS Ski jumping World Cup event each for men and women, in 1998 and 2012 respectively, as well as events at the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 1999.
The Greek word gymnasion, which means "school for naked exercise," was used to designate a locality for the education of young men, including physical education (gymnastics, for example, exercise) which was customarily performed naked, as well as bathing, and studies.
The moniker was intended, Rose said, to serve the dual purpose of representing an aggressive entity imbued with the will to win as well as to pay tribute to the people of Scandinavia, the descendants of whom are quite populous in the Minnesota region.
Highest total league attendance in each sport Top leagues in weekly attendance Note that other ticketed activities in motor sports such as practices and qualifying are not included in the number of "games" in a week.
Nereides Baths (1906) located in Point Defiance Park between 1906 and 1931 Greek Theater in Griffith Park See also Pacific Northwest portal References External links Image of two buildings Heath designed from Tacoma Public Library.
In-ring introductions are sometimes used for title matches or other major bouts, to add a "big fight feel".
At each end of the pitch three upright wooden balls, called the stumps, are hammered into the ground.
The term "kiss and cry" was widely used by the early 1990s, and is now officially a part of the International Skating Union Regulations.
The term grandstanding, from the notion of playing to the people in the grandstands, is often used as a pejorative to describe someone intent on drawing attention to themself.
Other sports affiliations As general manager of the Boston Arena and Boston Garden, Brown promoted all manner of sporting events including college hockey, indoor track and field, amateur boxing, wrestling, water follies, and figure skating, featuring Olympic star Sonja Henie.
The nightly charge publicized on a poster in the hut is paid either by putting it in the money box of the winter room or may be bank-transferred directly to the branch of the Alpine Club that owns the hut.
A boxing ring, often referred to simply as a ring or the squared circle, is the space in which a boxing match occurs.
At the Arena during the 1940s, Tyrrell organized what were considered to be the world's first televised ice show, boxing match, basketball game, and ice hockey game.
Despite the development of chlorinated and heated pools, ocean baths remain a popular form of recreation in New South Wales.
Sohn Kee-chung Park (Korean: 손기정공원; Hanja: 孫基禎公園) is a public park in Malli-dong, Jung District, Seoul, South Korea.
See also Stage name Code name Aviator call sign Nickname Pseudonym Shikona References External links Wrestlers Real Names List Archived 2019-04-20 at the Wayback Machine
The Central Departmental training sports and entertainment complex (CDFAS) is a sports complex located in the Val d'Oise in the communes of Eaubonne and of Saint-Gratien.
If the license is transferred, the team must be notified of the price; if the price paid falls short of the full price less payments already made, the team will return the difference to the original owner at the end of the license period.
The ISU specifies that competition rinks must not be larger than this and not smaller than 56 by 26 m (184 by 85 ft).
Indoor sports Gallery The association football clubs with the highest average home attendance for domestic league games in the 2022–23 season are included.
The site was given a Grade II listing by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport on the advice of Historic England in 2026, the centenary of Isler's birth.
Later he returned to Ohio State where he served as University Architect from October 1929 to June 1956.
Bolles had included a boomerang-shaped concrete wind baffle in the original design, reportedly reduced in construction.
PEPS opened in 1970 and includes an outdoor stadium (Telus Stadium), an indoor stadium, two indoor swimming pools (aquatic centre), basketball and tennis courts, a fitness centre, and two hockey arenas.
Modern portaledges (the vertical camping version of a tent) are a more comfortable, safer, and sturdier option to hanging hammocks.
In the early days, the household registration agency registered Paiyun Lodge in Syuefong Village, Wufong Township (now Alishan Township), Chiayi County.
There are a total of 16 bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton tracks around the world in use for competitions.
It meets the International Hockey Federation requirements and is the home to Zagłębie Sosnowiec hockey team.
The normal arrangement was more formalised as two straights, separated by a spina but very close to each other and with a very tight turn at each turning point.
The Stadium at Olympia (also called the Olympia Stadium or the Olympia Stadion) is an ancient stadium at the archaeological site of Olympia, Greece, located to the east of the sanctuary of Zeus.
These may be known by different terms, such as "Legends Suite seats" at Yankee Stadium or "Platinum Club" at Scotiabank Arena.
List is inclusive only of leagues with total season attendance greater than 1,000,000 and an average attendance greater than 15,000.
Demographics 1968 Winter Olympics The commune hosted the ski jumping individual large hill event for the 1968 Winter Olympics held in neighbouring Grenoble, on the Dauphine site on Le Moucherotte.
Elsewhere, in sheep country, the shepherds themselves may need to use a bothy at lambing time and they take priority over visitors.
Matthews – 2005 Steele Stadium, Owensboro Catholic High School, Owensboro – 2007 Louisiana Cougar Stadium – St.
Meis then left Ellerbe Becket to join NBBJ, establishing NBBJ's sports division with Michael Hallmark and Ron Turner.
In December 2006, Steinar Johannessen stated that he and the federation had given up having a ski jumping hill at Rødkleiva.
His work was also part of the architecture event in the art competition at the 1932 Summer Olympics.
As of 2025, it is also used by Wieczysta Kraków due to their stadium not meeting I liga requirements.
Time trials include team pursuit, team sprint, individual pursuit, kilo and 500 metre time trials, and the 200m flying lap.
In April 2016, departing Welsh Economy Minister Edwina Hart confirmed that the Welsh Government could not provide the required 100% guarantee to back construction of the circuit.
History In mid-2024, Juara Stadium underwent a renovation process, the first since the stadium opened, which included changing parts of the floor due to damage from termites.
In 1957 the Boston Hockey Coaches and Writers Association created the Clark Hodder Award to honor the New England coach of the year.
That same year, Rickard accompanied Theodore Roosevelt on part of the Roosevelt–Rondon Scientific Expedition.
A Matratzenlager ("mattress room"), sometimes called Massenlager or Touristenlager, is the simplest and cheapest type of sleeping accommodation offered in mountain huts.
A "fixed firing point" or echelon rifle range is where the targets are located at the various distances with the marksman or woman shooting from the one firing point.
The majority of PGMS members are institutional grounds managers who work for organizations such as colleges and universities, municipalities, park and recreation facilities, office parks, apartment complexes, hotels/motels, cemeteries, theme parks, etc.
There is a growing cooperation between International Skating Union and Federation of International Bandy, since both have an interest in more indoor venues with large ice surfaces being built.
In 2022 it was announced that a new arena in the nearby town, Svendborg was planned to serve as the home arena for GOG Håndbold as well as the basketball team Svendborg Rabbits.
The ISSS organizes regular Technical Meetings with experts from the industry to discuss issues of common interest.
Sollenberger became one of the seven members of the first class to be inducted into the Hershey Bears Hall of Fame.
The seats are priced differently according to the position of the sun during the show, normally in the afternoon.
IFBA Rules vs USA Rules There are two main differences between International Federation of Broomball Associations (IFBA) gameplay and American broomball gameplay: the way offside works, and the size of the net.
Two ancient ceramic ballcourt models recovered from western Mexico show the three markers placed length-wise along the court: one (again) at exact mid-court with the remaining pair set midway between the walls at either end of the playing alley.
The fanaticism around football in Kolkata in the 1970s was unparalleled and the Bangal-Ghoti rivalry was the pinnacle of football rivalries in Asia, as football became an escape from the political turmoil of the 70s in Kolkata.
The State Bank of Pakistan Sports Complex is a sports complex located in North Nazimabad, Karachi, Pakistan.
On April 4, 2022, after the team left USL League One to join the newly formed MLS Next Pro, Toronto FC II announced that York Lions Stadium would serve as their new home stadium.
Contrary to the above definition, the Hilltop Hoods refer to the "nosebleed section" as the front row.
A companion website includes a curatorial statement, artist biographies, a livestream of the installation and a timeline of surveillance technology from ancient to modern times.
The proposed location is near Sector D12 in the Margalla foothills and the expected seating capacity is around 32,000 spectators.
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave is an under-construction sports enclave being built in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India, named after Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.
While working and learning under Kim Swoo-Geun, he also worked as a lecturer in the Architecture department of Hanyang University.
A common tongue-in-cheek reference to having seats in the upper tiers of a stadium (sometimes described as being in the rafters, although this word technically describes a structure with a specific function) is "sitting in the nosebleed section", or "nosebleed seats".
The kiss and cry is the area in a figure skating rink where figure skaters wait for their marks to be announced after their performances during a figure skating competition.
Many modern changing rooms often have labyrinth-style entrances that have no door, so that people outside cannot see in, but security can walk in at any time without the sound of an opening door alerting persons inside.
His was given Life Fellowship to the RAIA in 1987 and Honorary Fellowship of the American Institute of Architects in the same year.
Ambrose Church (1904) Comiskey Park (1910), Wrigley Field (1914), Mount Carmel High School (1924), and St.
He designed an athletic competition, the Chariot Race, that allowed thousands of men to compete in teams of one hundred, first demonstrated on the Boston Common in 1917.
Enclosed indoor competitions were not required until 1980; they were not required for practice sessions until 1984.
In union the attacking team can hold onto and use the ball for as long as they are able, while the opposition's aim is to take possession of the ball from them.
Chilean rodeos are not quite the same sport famous in the American West; they involve two riders on horseback trying to herd a calf around a circular arena, attempting to pin him against several large cushions.
The area is usually located in the corner or end of the rink and is furnished with a bench or chairs for the skaters and coaches and monitors to display the competition results.
The UFC cage is an octagonal structure with walls of metal chain-link fence coated with black vinyl.
While a bandy field is about the same size as a football pitch, rink bandy is played on ice hockey rinks.
acquired the Stanley Company, Balmer served as the district manager for their theaters in West Virginia.
However, for fear that there would be naked women in the sauna, Lee refused to go inside and instead opted to warn people to evacuate by yelling outside the door.
Numbers without parentheses are Championship points; numbers in parentheses are total points scored.
In professional wrestling, the variations are much more numerous and so the announcer may have to explain significantly more to the audience.
It remained to be determined whether potential obstacles such as fire hydrants and traffic lights would have been moved.
Currently not even under construction, the circuit was designed to host the Hungarian motorcycle Grand Prix from 2023 and onwards.
The plan ultimately approved included assigning two-thirds of the space to be used for concessions, souvenir stores, as well as a portion of the space being dedicated for the Orioles' front offices.
These lights were placed around the ground and 'illuminated the playing arena well enough for the spectators to follow most, if not all, the points of play' according to the Nottingham Evening Post on 26 March 1889.
The active professional ski jumpers Vladimir Zografski and Deyan Funtarov are both from Samokov and started training in these hills.
The palaestra essentially consisted of a rectangular court surrounded by colonnades with adjoining rooms.
Ice sledge racing is a Paralympic sport where contestants use a lightweight sledge and propel themselves using two poles.
Renovation In the 2008 state election, Pakatan Rakyat (predecessor to the present-day Pakatan Harapan coalition) seized power from the incumbent Barisan Nasional administration.
Appearing in the 6th century, during the Byzantine period it referred to an inn or trading house for foreign merchants, akin to a caravanserai.
In 2019, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal laid the foundation stones for the state sports school named after Baruah to be located at the sports complex.
Its hill had a calculation or K-point of 90 metres and was constructed between July 1966 and January 1967.
Many are maintained by volunteers from the Mountain Bothies Association (MBA), a charity that looks after 97 bothies in Scotland, the north of England, and Wales.
The Olympic Village does not collect fees from the public for provision of the installations, although sports organisations do levy a minimal charge to raise funds for participation in international competitions.
London's 2012 Olympic velodrome and a new velodrome in Turkmenistan's capital city Ashgabat both have a 250 m track and a 6,000-seat spectator capacity.
This was also the last Formula One race ever to be held on the full 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) Monza circuit, with the two banked corners and the straight between the bankings included.
The term appeared in print as early as 1953 when it was used to describe the last row in the end zone at Philadelphia's Municipal Stadium (later John F.
The city of Bad Reichenhall then, in consultation with a small circle of relatives, privately commissioned the artist Karl-Martin Hartmann .
This is of variable distance, ranging from 22 feet (6.7 m) in the corners to 23.75 feet (7.24 m) behind the top of the key.
The arena is planned to serve as a venue for big events, sports activities and as an evacuation center for calamities.
The stadium was also used by Comerciantes Unidos during the 2018 Torneo Descentralizado as a secondary venue.
Michael Carrick responded by saying that they were keen to continue with the project, understand the reasons it was not supported, and address them.
Aftermath On 25 December 2017, the police raided the homes of both the owner of the building and the manager to collect evidence that would help charge them with manslaughter caused by professional negligence and violation of the fire law.
Disturbing the Peace (Laoma Tihua) 2009, video, 1h 19m Ai Weiwei studio production Laoma Tihua is a documentary of an incident during Tan Zuoren's trial on 12 August 2009.
In July 2014 it was announced that MLSE would expand the training grounds at a cost of $2 million to house a practice facility for the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League, which would rent the facility from MLSE and practice on a nearby city owned field.
The unique core of the Society would be the institutional grounds professional generalist the organization would remain a professional society for the individual (rather than a trade association).
Johnson, American speed skating world record holder in 1895 who competed in the mile-long (1.6 km) race at the rink in 1901.
Wertheimer made his feature film debut following the mockumentary podcast series Past My Bedtime (2022).
Backstop In most MLB stadiums, the backstop is at least 60 feet behind home plate and is composed of a lower solid wall and upper netting that protects spectators behind home plate from wild pitches, passed balls, and foul balls.
General use of the facilities is encouraged, with comfortable seats, desks, and tables available in significant quantities.
An arena is a large enclosed venue, often circular or oval-shaped, designed to showcase theatre, musical performances or sporting events.
The complex's large hill is a K-120, alongside a normal hill K-95, with a K-56, K-30 and K-19 also onsite.
For running tracks, many cinder surfaces have been replaced by all-weather synthetic surfaces, which provide greater durability and more consistent results, and are less stressful on runners.
Much of the north end of the Olympic stadium was removed to convert it into a 49,000-seat baseball park.
As of April 2007 major investments in the current stadium are put on hold as a decision on the construction of a new stadium is being awaited.
This element is distinct from the English word gym, short for gymnasium and gymnastics which has Greek and Latin roots.
The location of these bothies can be found on the Mountain Bothies Association (MBA) website, along with information on how people can help.
Background The word derives from Latin harena, a particularly fine-grained sand that covered the floor of ancient arenas such as the Colosseum in Rome, Italy, to absorb blood.
Also during the early-1900s, Hewitt shared in a business venture which operated a baseball World Series scoreboard at several theatres in Toronto.
As part of the effort to spread the game of Go throughout the world, several Go centers were founded in the United States, Europe and South America.
The winter room, unlike the rest of the hut, is easily accessible and usually is either not locked or is accessible with an Alpine Club key.
They are delimited with wooden bands, plastic walls or foam mats and only prepared with snow and water (ice).
Total ₹5 crore (US$590,000) was financed by the Government of Gujarat while rest of the ₹4 crore (US$470,000) was received from the Fourteenth Finance Commission.
Rules and conventions Retail establishments often post rules such as maximum number of items allowed in changing room, e.g.
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) estimated in May 2015 that statistical group 37-3011 "Landscaping and Groundskeeping Workers" numbered 895,600 with a median annual wage of $25,030.
Description One end of the hippodromos of the Ancient Greeks was semicircular, while the other was a quadrilateral with an extensive portico.
The two were lifelong friends, although for a brief period of time, they operated competing saloons in Nome.
The first was a concept store devised by off-price retailer Filene's Basement called Aisle 3, which opened in 1999 and was notable for only doing business on weekends while the rest of the week was spent stocking the store with merchandise.
(Before the stadium's mid-1970s renovation, a batter's eye screen was often put up in front of the section.) At Fenway Park in Boston, the batter's eye is made by laying a tarp over a section of the center field bleachers.
Wading or paddling pools are shallow bodies of water intended for use by small children, usually in parks.
A superpipe is a large halfpipe structure used in extreme sports such as snowboarding, freestyle skiing, skateboarding, scooters, freestyle BMX and vert skating.
The Honourable Company of Edinburgh golfers built their own course at Muirfield and Musselburgh was removed from the rota as a result.
Tyrrell was also involved in rodeos, bringing Gene Autry and his rodeo for the first time to Philadelphia.
When he built, Deaton believed in complete control of every facet of the project, designing not only the structure itself, but the interior down to the last detail.
Bleachers vary in size from 10 feet (3 m) wide, seating 25, all the way to full stadiums that seat thousands and wrap around the entire field.
He received strong support from Western Canada, but the motion was defeated by opposition from Eastern Canada.
Dunn hired Jessie Costello, who was acquitted of the murder of her husband at a highly publicized trial, to be the club's general treasurer.
In the national park itself, Boofen is only permitted at designated sites and only in connection with climbing, although in this case lighting fires is absolutely forbidden.
Bivouac boxes are increasingly being used as overnight accommodations on the mountain or as party locations, which is not what they were intended for.
Today, a wrestler under pressure at the edge of the ring will often try to move himself round to one of these points to gain leverage in order to push back more effectively against the opponent who is trying to force him out.
If two fighters were entangled in a position where there was a lack of action, the referee could stop the fight and restart the competitors on their feet, in their own corner.
Safety Terraces were generally a safe, cheap and enjoyable way to watch sport, but on occasion they could be dangerous too.
In 2006 the Copenhagen Municipality predicted that the main stand of the current Valby Idrætspark would last another 5–10 years.
Horse racing venues by capacity Defunct venues See also List of horse racing venues List of stadiums by capacity List of sports venues by capacity Lists of sports venues Lists of stadiums == References ==
New club seating, luxury suites, and fine dining areas were all enhanced on the upper levels, and the press box was also enlarged.
He hired former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Norm Van Brocklin to serve as the team's first coach.
Bohol Arena is a proposed multi-purpose indoor arena to be constructed in San Roque, Talibon, Bohol, Philippines.
SPICE Aquatic Centre Opened in 2016, the SPICE Aquatic Centre contains an Olympic-size swimming pool, diving platforms, function rooms, a gym, a sports clinic, and amenities catering for various indoor sports such as badminton and squash.
Both events have now been discontinued, but since 2002 athletes with a disability have competed as full members of their nation teams at the Commonwealth Games.
That year, Broadland Council sold its freehold in the building for £450,000 to Liana Ltd, a Guernsey-based company with connections to the directors of Eclipse, which held a 150-year lease on the nearby buildings.
This ground hosted fifty first-class, thirty-seven list A, and twelve twenty20 cricket matches from 1998 to 2012.
Parts of the field For limited overs cricket matches, there are two additional field markings to define areas relating to fielding restrictions.
A push into converting union players to rugby league, such as All Blacks John Gallagher, Frano Botica, Matthew Ridge and Va'aiga Tuigamala, occurred during the late 1980s and into the 1990s.
It was selected as a venue to host matches in the knockout stage of the 2016–17 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy.
It is used by the local ski jumping club IF Friska Viljor and various international competitions have been held at the venue through the years, such as the FIS Ski Jumping World Cup, FIS Ski Jumping Continental Cup and FIS Cup.
In many non-English speaking countries a term cognate with hippodrome (e.g., Estonian: hipodroom, German: Hippodrom, Italian: ippodromo, etc.).
Structure Two night clubs are incorporated into the center, as well as numerous shops, coffeehouses, and restaurants.
of Chicago, the complex is a mixed-use project consisting of Phase 1, a 235,000-sf retail block that opened in 1997, and Phase 2, the 390,000-sf 339-room hotel that was completed in 2001.
In cricket, a ground is a location where cricket matches are played, comprising a cricket field, cricket pavilion and any associated buildings and amenities.
In the FIS snowboard world cup rules, the recommended width for 22 ft (6.7 m) walls is 64 ft (20 m).
It was the similarity in appearance of this Roman cursus to the Neolithic archaeological feature which led 18th century antiquarians to use the same name for the latter.
The inscription has attracted the interest of epigraphists, but it has been proposed that maybe this was not its original place and that it is actually in second use.
The most prominent examples of the octorad style were San Diego Stadium in San Diego, which opened in 1967, and Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, which opened in 1971.
Through worldwide colonization, Great Britain expanded its national interest in sports and games to many countries.
Showing the "kiss and cry" area has personalized the sport and has helped make figure skating more popular in televised Olympic competition.
The facilities have three changing rooms, several toilets, two bars, various premises, offices, a room and a press box.
Racing facilities existed during the Middle Ages, and records exist of a public racecourse being opened at Newmarket, in London, in 1174.
Pipe systems Turnbuckles are used in piping systems as a way to provide minor adjustments for field inconsistencies.
The bereaved families criticized the fire department for having missed the emergency rescue golden time.
On 12 January 1930, Swiss Adolf Badrutt jumped 75 meters (246 ft) and set the only official world record on this hill.
Artificial tracks Internationally used tracks Usually nationally used tracks Former tracks Natural luge tracks Please see List of natural luge tracks These are tracks adapted from existing mountain roads and paths.
The NCAA championships listed here are all composed of several separate conferences with varying attendance levels.
Brown served as athletic director at Boston University (BU) and in 1917, was instrumental in the creation of the school's first hockey team.
The majority of the largest stadiums in the world were built for either association football or American football.
Whitcomb of The Boston Globe as being "relegated to the category which claims Mac Smith and other stars who always challenge but never quite can win".
Prior to the September 1952 tournament, the tsuriyane had been supported by columns, but they were removed to allow fans an uninterrupted view of the dohyō.
Professional career The 1893 Boston Directory listed McLaughlin as a draftsman working at 43 Milk Street in Boston and boarding in Everett, Massachusetts.
More generally, gymkhana refers to a social and sporting club in the Indian subcontinent, and in other Asian countries including Malaysia, Thailand, Burma, and Singapore, as well as in East Africa.
The figures generally represent the licensed capacity of the venue, which is usually far higher than the number of seats in the stands.
MBA bothies sometimes have an outside toilet but when this is not the case a toilet spade is provided.
In modern combat sports Professional wrestling In professional wrestling, ring girls are attendants who remove the entrance gear (such as jackets, robes, and other clothing) and championship belts from the ring after a wrestler takes them off before his match.
Gone were the staid lighting and old-fashioned organ music as a generally older clientele were replaced by adolescents and twenty-somethings skating under mirror balls and special lights to disco beats.
1997: Closure of Whampoa Super Ice Though the business is good in Whampoa Super Ice, the landlord did not extend the lease with the rink in 1997.
He later co-founded the sports and entertainment practice of NBBJ before establishing his own firm, MEIS Architects, in 2007.
His named was engraved on the Stanley Cup following the Bruins' victory in the 1970 and 1972 Stanley Cup Finals.
It ultimately served as a temporary home to the Toronto Blue Jays of MLB in 2020 and 2021, when they were displaced by the COVID-19 pandemic after the government of Canada denied them permission to play at Rogers Centre.
To date, there are 6 Chengkung Yurts and 3 Longmen Inns as accommodation spaces, all of which are dormitory-style (with soft mattresses).
A speed skating rink (or speed skating oval) is an ice rink (a specific type of sport venue) in which a speed skating competition is held.
However, in the 2013 Yushan weather station air supply incident, the helicopter was overloaded and crashed into Yushan (Mt.
In 1933, he underwent an operation at the Newton Hospital and died the following week at the age of 50.
Although these have the advantage of being speedy to erect and resource-efficient, they have relatively poor insulation properties.
He also collaborated with USC Trojans baseball coach Rod Dedeaux, to bring former college players to Alberta.
The development project for the turfing of the football ground was a collaborative effort between the soil conservation department and STUP consultants, and the landscaping and plantation project was delayed due to Larsen & Toubro being unable to clear some of the sites.
A total of 22 different sport disciplines are offered for training under the supervision of experienced coaches.
Boxing promotions soon adopted the concept of ring girls, when promoters started to hire attractive women to parade around the ring holding signs, signaling the upcoming round.
The name itself is a compound of the words híppos (Greek: ἵππος), meaning "horse", and drómos (Greek: δρόμος), meaning "course".
While at Dartmouth, he played for the Dartmouth Big Green football team and was a consensus first-team selection for the 1904 College Football All-America Team.
References External links FIBT.com list of artificial bobsleigh and skeleton tracks FIL-Luge.org list of artificial luge tracks FIL-Luge.org list of natural luge tracks
Marion Zimmer Bradley used bothies as a pattern for shelters at Hellers mountains in her Darkover novels.
Frequently climbed and sought-after mountains with difficult standard ascents sometimes have a bivouac box near the summit, such as Piz Badile or Langkofel.
The first idea came in 1912; later options to replace Holmenkollbakken resurfaced during the 1930s and the 1970s, but were quickly rejected.
They are also used as a part of outdoor winter festivals and to host pond hockey tournaments and the like.
A personal seat license, or PSL, is a paid license that entitles the holder to the right to buy season tickets for a certain seat in a stadium.
The Phillies The Philadelphia Phillies had been a client of EwingCole since 1964, and Cole enjoyed a close relationship with the team through the company.
They stayed there until 1986, when the team signed a contract to utilize South Mountain Arena in West Orange for that purpose.
Sollenberger brought many famous entertainers to Hershey: Fred Waring, Victor Borge, Sonja Henie, Tallulah Bankhead and Eleanor Holm all knew him as "JB".
Honors Trubey is a Fellow member of the American Institute of Architects (FAIA), the Texas Society of Architects, as well as the Dallas chapter of the AIA.
According to the Unified Rules of Mixed Martial Arts, an MMA competition or exhibition may be held in a ring or a fenced area.
History Business merchant Andrew Wheeler Green owned the Grand National Rink at 153 Brock Avenue, south of Dundas Street.
Major works Han-Gae-Ryung service area building, 1982 This service area is located within one of the most famous national parks in South Korea, Seoraksan National Park.
Biography Born on June 25, 1905, in Berkeley, Bolles was the son of San Francisco architect Edward Grosvenor Bolles (1871–1939), who had arrived in the city in 1893.
In addition to boxing, Rickard hosted a number of other events, including six-day bicycle races, and constructed the world's largest indoor swimming pool at the Garden.
the length of two straights, one inner curve and one outer curve, in addition to the extra distance skated when changing lanes in the cross-over area, which on a standard track equals 7 centimeters.
History Mountain guides Alec and Peter Graham lobbied the Ministry of Tourist and Health Resorts regarding the need for the hut, and in the Public Works estimates tabled in Parliament in October 1929, £400 was allocated to the project.
The starting line is preserved on the east accompanied with two rows of incised slabs for placing the feet of the runners.
Controversies Allegations of sexism Some sports journalists claim that the use of ring girls, which first started in boxing, is unnecessary.
Similar to the penalty arc, this indicates the minimum distance that opposing players have to keep at kick-off; the ball itself is placed on the centre mark.
Lu was accompanied by several lawyers and an accountant, but the witnesses they had requested to testify, including Ai, were prevented from attending a court hearing.
Rink bandy was included in the programme of the 2012 European Company Sports Games and a European championship existed, though there is currently no top-level international competition.
For the 1997 games, Maccabiah officials, apparently unwilling to pay the IDF's price of $111,000, accepted a bid from Irgunit to build the bridge for $34,750.
After debuting in WWE as the "Connecticut Blueblood" Hunter Hearst Helmsley, Paul Levesque's character later morphed into Triple H.
The arena is primarily used for handball, and is home to as well the men's Danish Handball League team GOG, and the women's 1st Division team.
In 2010, discussions with other parties started and a skiing trail, fitness centre, hotel, restaurant, and conference areas were added to the plans.
were the first to adopt such a name but by far the most famous was the Kop at Liverpool F.C.'s Anfield Road ground.
The location chosen (a military area that had not been used for a long time) could hide mines, grenades and bombs.
Football stadium With the capacity of 11,600, the football stadium is the main venue of the complex.
In 1927, the company entered into its first major-league deal by signing an agreement with the Detroit Tigers to handle food service at Navin Field.
An application to renew the expired planning consent was submitted to Blaenau Gwent County Borough Council in September 2018.
He worked in a sheet metal factory during World War II, where he discovered the ability to create any shape he could conceive, an idea he carried into his architecture career.
Four ropes are attached to the posts and pulled parallel under tension with turnbuckles to form the boundary of the competition area.
Eagles vice president Ed Snider called it a "composite of all problems and compromise"; while the Phillies were initially skeptical, Snider added "both teams loved it" in the end.
One end of the pitch is designated the batting end where the batsman stands and the other is designated the bowling end where the bowler runs in to bowl.
This phase, which corresponds to the Federation's headquarters and the home of the National Football Teams, has three training pitches and one for goalkeepers, eleven changing rooms, two gyms, a hydrotherapy centre and a nucleus of offices for the work of the technical team and support staff.
Many Tartan tracks were installed worldwide, including at many of the top universities in the United States.
The handling of ammunition is expressly prohibited within the safety area, including any dummy rounds.
History The ski jumping hills hosted the ski jumping and the nordic combined events at the 2018 Winter Olympics.
Later life McLaughlin was a longtime resident of the Chestnut Hill neighborhood of Brookline, Massachusetts.
After an exhibition tour through Austria, Germany, France and England, Hewitt and the Graduates returned to Canada aboard SS Celtic.
In 1919, he became general manager of the Boston Arena, home to indoor track meets, boxing matches, and hockey games, among other events.
See also Arktisk Stadion References External links Media related to Nuuk Stadium at Wikimedia Commons
When entities such as the National Football League's Super Bowl Committee decide on a venue for a particular event, seating capacity, which reflects the possible number of tickets that can be sold for the event, is an important consideration.
Crash The crash happened during the course of the motorsport event when two racing cars collided with a group of spectators leaving seven people dead.
The change of terrain serves as a "warning" for fielders trying to make a deep catch that they are running out of room, since it is often difficult for the fielder to keep his eye on a fly ball while keeping track of his position relative to the wall.
Chief engineer Rudolf Uhlenhaut had gone to the Jaguar pits to ask if the Jaguar team would respond in kind, out of respect for the crash victims.
During the war, Cole participated in fifty-eight air raids on Japanese forces in New Guinea, including several November 1943 bombing missions on Rabaul, on the nearby island of New Britain.
At the top is an in-run where the jumper runs down to generate sufficient speed, before reaching the jump.
Etymology The first element of Gymkhana comes from gend meaning ball in Urdu/Hindi/Hindustani/Khariboli.
In contrast to the artificial tracks, the cross-section of natural tracks is level - not banked in curves.
Production of the film was completed on March 24, 2023, after the final frame was approved, and seven years were spent on it, both in the studio and at the filmmakers' homes.
His surname is not included in the film's credits, but it is seen in the film on his desk nameplate.
Subsequent to this, the south side of the ground was covered over, and Pittodrie Stadium was proclaimed as the country's first all-seated, all-covered ground, although the southern corners of the ground remained open to the skies.
Entertainment From 1936 until his retirement in 1962, Sollenberger was general manager of all the attractions in the Hershey empire, including the Hershey Sports Arena and the amusement complex that grew to become Hersheypark.
In 1960, the company was awarded the contract to operate the concessions at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy.
The legendary singer Manna Dey sang a song, Khela football khela, composed by Suparnakanti Ghosh, to pay homage to those unfortunate souls who lost their lives on that ill-fated day.
Redgra, sometimes styled as RedGra, Red-Gra, or generically as redgra, is the brand name of an all-weather surfacing material primarily composed of red clay and fine limestone gravel.
Overview For winter sports, the term superpipe is used to describe a halfpipe built of snow which has walls 22 ft (6.7 m) high from the flat bottom on both sides.
Construction had progressed as far as electronic and timing installation by early 2019 before it ground to a halt due to political issues.
Facilities Edmonton Expo Centre (1984–2017) – Completed in 1984, as the "Agricom", it underwent a 200,000-square-foot (19,000 m2) expansion in 2009.
2015–16 Notes: The New York Islanders moved from Nassau Coliseum to Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York.
Germán Duarte, the current supervisor of projects, is engaged with the repair of pitches and the repainting of floors in the three gymnasiums of the sports complex.
The world's first indoor bandy arena, the Olimpiyskiy, was built in Moscow for the 1980 Summer Olympics but has hosted many bandy events since.
The McCormick Recreation Centre opened at the north end of the property in 1912 at 163 Brock Avenue.
For instance, the South Bank Stand behind the southern goal at Molineux Stadium, home of Wolverhampton Wanderers, had a maximum of 32,000 standing attenders, while the rest of the stadium hosted a little bit less than that; the total maximum attendance was around 59,000.
The Medialuna de Osorno was the first covered medialuna in Chile, and is considered one of the highest quality.
Bleachers (North American English), or stands, are raised, tiered rows of benches found at sports-fields and at other spectator events.
There are two parking lots for two-wheeler vehicles and a dedicated area for four-wheelers, which is also used as bus stand.
Usually there is a stove and wood to fire it with; often there is a table as well and somewhere to sleep.
Curley School, Jamaica Plain South Boston Police Station (District 6), Boston Temple Israel Meeting House, Boston == References ==
For example: the racetrack for car racing, the hippodrome for horse racing, the velodrome for cycling, and the swimming pool for swimming.
Today, Borussia Dortmund's Signal Iduna Park (aka the Westfalenstadion) provides standing accommodation for 25,000 fans in its South Stand, which is commonly called the Yellow Wall.
The normal hill was reconstructed about 40 m (130 ft) away from its original site, and the smaller hills further away.
In 2025, it was initially considered as the home venue for Burdwan Blasters, a club participating in the inaugural season of the Bengal Super League.
These pitchers usually wait in the bullpen if they have not yet played in a game, rather than in the dugout with the rest of the team.
Paradiskullen is a ski jumping hill in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden, and is also a local landmark as it can be seen from downtown Örnsköldsvik.
Traditional cricket floodlights are mounted at the top of a tall pole, to elevate them out of the fielder's eyeline when the ball is hit high into the air.
A trinquete (also trinquet) is a special court for various indoor versions of pelota and it is a modality of the pelota sport.
The stadium holds a maximum of 13,500 spectators, and was built in 2008; for the Olympics, the capacity was reduced to 8,500 seats.
Attendance figures for leagues with a promotion and relegation system are more likely to vary each season due to the stadium capacity and support base for participating clubs.
Working with David Schwartz Architects and Hoyt Architects, the ballpark was transformed in the traditional style of "Florida Picturesque" common to Sarasota.
A case was lodged in the Kolkata High Court against the construction by advocate Imtiaz Ahmed and Sabhyasachi Chattopadhyay.
The cage may be made of wood, aluminium or steel and has a net to stop the ball when it has crossed the goal-line.
The two sets of hybrid solar inverters share the same hybrid energy storage system, which consists of a newly established lithium iron phosphate battery energy storage system and an existing lead-acid battery energy storage system.
Bethlehem Area School District Stadium – Bethlehem Area School District – Bethlehem, Pennsylvania – 2005 James M.
Martinez (WEC, Cage Warriors Fighting Championship, Solo Boxeo-Tecate Golden Boy Promotions) Kody Mommaerts or 'Big Mo' (Sky Sports, BOXXER, BYB) Jimmy Lennon (Boxing, father of Jimmy Lennon Jr.) Jimmy Lennon Jr.
The Greeks also developed the theatre, with its seating arrangements foreshadowing those of modern stadiums.
This not only enhances their security but also contributes to alleviating traffic congestion throughout the entire city.
Features The hotel offers limousine service to and from O'Hare International Airport and Chicago Midway International Airport.
In those that offer both seats and bleachers‍—‍‌such as in Major League Baseball⁠‍—‍‌the bleachers are typically in less desirable locations, have lower ticket prices, or both, giving the term "bleachers" a connotation of lower-class seating.
In 2004, the International Ski Federation replaced the calculation point as the measurement of the size of a hill with hill size.
Dutchman Josef Göttgens crashed his Triumph TR3 near Florence and later died of his injuries in a Florence hospital.
Toyota (Toyota Motor Corporation, or TMC) is a multinational corporation headquartered in the city of the same name in Japan.
However, a press photograph showed Hawthorn smiling on the podium drinking from the victor's bottle of champagne.
It includes a number of facilities, with the Anoeta Stadium standing out as its main sports ground, home to the Spanish football premier league's team Real Sociedad.
MMA A list follows of notable ring girls who have posed for the American entertainment magazine, Playboy.
Leisure centres are staffed by attendants who carry out a range of tasks to help and supervise the people using the leisure centre's facilities, and act as swimming pool lifeguards, gym instructors and coaches, offering advice, motivation, and expertise to users.
However, due to ongoing homologation works at the circuit, paired with global operational challenges, the inaugural event was expected to be pushed back to 2024.
Lim's administration sought an open tender process to assess PISA's valuation and to appoint a new operator for the facility.
Maanexit (also spelled Manexit or Mayanexit) was a Nipmuc village on the Quinebaug River (Maanexit River) and Old Connecticut Path in Connecticut.
Seven or eight Indians accused of killing settlers were hanged, and the rest were sold into slavery.
Its full title is Saints and Strangers - Being the Lives of the Pilgrim Fathers & Their Families, with Their Friends & Foes: & and Account of Their Posthumous Wanderings in Limbo, Their Final Resurrection & Rise to Glory, & the Strange Pilgrimages of Plymouth Rock.
Swiftsure Speedwell was built in 1577, under the name Swiftsure, as part of English preparations for war against Spain.
Cushman carried, in addition to Bradford's letter to Weston, a manuscript that would become an invaluable historic recording of the Pilgrims first thirteen months in America known today as Mourt's Relation.
The map uses perpendicular lines to mark the North and South boundaries of the Massachusetts Bay Colony per the 1629 charter.
Coles Hill became the first cemetery, on a prominence above the beach, and they allowed grass to overgrow the graves for fear that the Indians would discover how weakened the settlement had actually become.
The Deerfield Massacre had taken place in western Massachusetts on February 29, 1704, believed conducted by Indians provoked by the French.
Their Massachusetts cousins were named after the originals as South West England was the focal point for sailing and discovery at the time of America's discovery.
Later in life, he held a military command during King William's War and was involved in the Naval battle off St.
Their negotiations were delayed because of conflicts internal to the London Company, but ultimately a patent was secured in the name of John Wincob on June 9 (Old Style)/June 19 (New Style), 1619.
Squanto's involvement as an intermediary in negotiating the friendship treaty with Massasoit led to the joint feast between the Pilgrims and Wampanoag.
They also destroyed seven houses and killed several persons in present-day Scarborough (formerly Black Point).
This later group had been promised a separate living situation in Plymouth apart from the main settlement.
It was mid-September and his decision to run away proved wise, as evidenced by the fact that Giles Corey was crushed to death within a few days of his departure.
The dominion collapsed in 1689 after the Glorious Revolution propelled William and Mary to the English throne, and prompted the 1689 Boston revolt, in which Andros was arrested and returned to England.
Eventually, he sold the trading post to Smith to finance his trip to Great Britain to secure a charter for Rhode Island.
The Whitman massacre of 1847 triggered the Cayuse War, which led to fighting from the Cascade Range to the Rocky Mountains.
The annual growing season in southern Maine and Canada was not long enough to produce maize harvests.
Mount Hope (originally Montaup in Pokanoket language) is a small hill in Bristol, Rhode Island overlooking the part of Narragansett Bay known as Mount Hope Bay.
He boarded the Mayflower with his wife and two servants, one of whom was Elias Story, who died early along with 8-year-old Ellen More, who was in his care.
Harlow received permission to use the timbers after the fort was torn down at the end of King Philip's War in 1677.
State park attraction Today, Plymouth Rock is managed by the Department of Conservation and Recreation for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as part of Pilgrim Memorial State Park.
The campaign is most notable for Richard Waldron entering the war, the death of Chief Mog, and the attack on the Mi’kmaq that initiated their involvement in the war.
History John Eliot was an English colonist and Puritan minister who played an important role in the establishment of praying towns.
During the battle, his eye was wounded and he was hit by a musket ball which he carried in his body to his grave.
Bailey of North Scituate who was, at that time and for many years, chairman of the county commissioners.
Goffe was able to exchange letters with his wife in England through the mediation of Increase Mather, an influential Boston minister, and Daniel Gookin, a political leader in the Massachusetts government, is known to have overseen some of their financial affairs.
1643–1727), via whom he had numerous descendants to the present day including John Haynes Holmes (1879–1964), American churchman and pacifist, and Newland Howard Holmes (1891–1965), President of the Massachusetts Senate.
During the French and Indian Wars, Arrowsic was site of a succession of important and embattled colonial settlements.
After they emigrated to America in 1620, the congregation built a chapel in Plymouth which became a parish church of Massachusetts' state church, the Congregational Church.
Legacy In 1730, Samuel Wadsworth's son Benjamin (then president of Harvard College) dedicated a memorial stone over the mass grave where his father had been buried alongside his men.
However, unbeknownst to Curtis it was too late for negotiations, as the Nipmucs, under sachem Matoonas, had already attacked an English colonial settlement at Mendon and had decided to join Metacom's rebellion.
The statue is approximately 9 feet (2.7 meters) in height and has a square base measuring 32 inches (81 centimeters) on either side.
Legacy The Nashaway have left their imprint in many hydronyms and topographical features, such as the Sholan area of Leominster, the city and river known by "Nashua", and Mount Wachusett.
First used as a path by Wampanoag members, the road has been gradually upgraded over the years to become a main road.
Eulogy on King Philip is a printed text of a speech delivered by William Apess in 1836 to, among other things, commemorate Metacom, also known as King Phillip, 160 years after his death.
At this time the hill was transformed into a public park as part of the preparations for the tercentenary celebration.
An annual protest occurs at the statue on Thanksgiving Day in order to reclaim the space for Native Americans.
By 1616, the site had been renamed "New Plimoth" in Smith's A Description of New England after a suggestion by Prince Charles of England.
In New England In November 1621, Philip Delano arrived in Plymouth Colony as a single man on the ship Fortune.
They also raided present-day Durham, New Hampshire, burning houses, killing two settlers and taking others captive.
Because of intertribal and intratribal strife and conflict with colonists, some of the Native Americans considered the praying towns as refuges from warfare.
She received one share in the 1623 land division as "ffrance wife to Wit Palmer." He was a member of the 1626 Purchaser investment group as "Willm Palmer." In the 1627 division the family had 3 shares as "William, ffrances and Willm Pallmer Jnor." William Palmer died in 1637.
On the second day of the siege, early at dawn, Muttawmp had his men fill a village wagon with combustible material and direct it at the fortified house, hoping to set it on fire and in that way force the defenders out.
An unnamed sister of Awetamoes testified that a member of the group that attacked Howland by the name of Ohom told her that Molasses was also part of the group and took Howland from the water.
Over the years, people chipped away at the portion of the Rock that remained on the shoreline, removing hundreds of pounds of stone as souvenirs.
On August 13, the Wabanaki attacked Richard Hammond's fortified house in present-day Woolwich, killing fourteen, while two escaped.
At this early stage of the Colony's history the body of Freemen consisted of only the signatories to the Mayflower Compact.
When he determined upon an enterprise he pushed it forward to success with indomitable perseverance.
He succeeded newly elected Governor Josiah Winslow who held the position since it was established in 1658.
The early Plymouth General Court met within the fort on Burial Hill near Cole's Hill in downtown Plymouth.
In October, the Indians struck again with raids on the towns of Hatfield, Northampton, and Springfield, where almost the entire settlement was burned to the ground.
Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) The Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) are headquartered in Aquinnah, Massachusetts.
On November 15, Captain Myles Standish led a party of 16 men on an exploratory mission, during which they disturbed an Indian grave and located a buried cache of Indian corn.
In October of that year, the Henry-Bonnard Bronze Company hosted an exhibition that featured the statue alongside several others that the foundry had recently cast, which included a statue of John Harvard and a statue of Samuel Francis Du Pont.
He later married Katherine White who was a prominent member of the Leiden English separatist church, though the exact date is unknown.
Later history Three of Mayflower's owners applied to the admiralty court for an appraisal of the ship on 4 May 1624, two years after Captain Jones's death in 1622.
Leach, Douglas Edward, Flintlock and Tomahawk: New England in King Philip's War; Parnassus Imprints, East Orleans, Massachusetts; 1954; ISBN 0-940160-55-2 Mandell, Daniel R.
The capotain is especially associated with Puritan costume in England in the years leading up to the English Civil War and during the years of the Commonwealth.
After several days of trying to get south to their planned destination of the Colony of Virginia, strong winter seas and a damaged ship forced them to return to the Cape Cod Hook where they anchored on November 11/21.
The striking children were offered one penny more an hour, the same pay as the nearby Bates Mill, in the neighboring town of Lewiston.
Tisquantum and Dermer talked of New England while in Newfoundland, and Tisquantum persuaded him that he could make his fortune there, and Dermer wrote Gorges and requested that Gorges send him a commission to act in New England.
(His son Edward Winslow made a significant contribution to the establishment of the loyalist colony of New Brunswick.) Winslow was the great-grandson of Edward Winslow, third Governor of Plymouth Colony.
Sony Wonder and Golden Books Family Entertainment also released the special on VHS in the Holiday Classics Collection line in 1998.
While in this village, they met an old woman, "no lesse then an hundred yeeres old", who wanted to see the colonists, and she told them of how her two sons were kidnapped by Hunt at the same time that Tisquantum was, and she had not seen them since.
The name of the town means either "where the road lies" or "where we gather" which may have been "alluding to a settlement of Christian Indians in the immediate vicinity." The village became an Indian praying town through the influence of John Eliot and Daniel Gookin.
Connecticut is largely shrunken to the left of the page, while present day Greater Boston, Martha's Vineyard, and Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations are shown in great detail, the hotspots of the conflict, with Cape Cod largely squished by the ratio of the map.
Authors It was written primarily by Edward Winslow, although William Bradford appears to have written most of the first section.
The goal of UAINE is to fight back against prejudice toward Native people, the issues of the Pilgrim mythology perpetuated in Plymouth, and the United States' assault on poor people.
On their arrival in Washington, they were greeted by President Lincoln, who shook Colonel Jones's hand and said, "Thank God, you have come" as theirs was the first armed and trained regiment to arrive in Washington.
The maternal grandson of Richard Warren, one of the passengers on the Mayflower, he was brought up according to colonial practices on the American frontier.
The early law of the colony was based roughly on English common law and Mosaic law, but the judicial structure resembled local manor and borough courts in England rather than the higher King's Court, which created the common law.
It is now owned by the town, with a trail that loops around and over the hill, with informational signs along the way.
Smiths were not to work for the Podunk, and none but licensed traders were to buy their corn, beaver, venison, or timber.
Many Narragansetts, based in southern Rhode Island, had fled to the Connecticut River valley after the Great Swamp Fight, a devastating assault on their central village by a combined English and Indian force in December 1675.
Once in town, they used torches to light houses on fire, including the garrisoned house of the village minister, Joseph Rowlandson.
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts also cited the continuity of the Nipmuc(k) with the historic tribe and commended tribal efforts to preserve their culture and traditions.
Both memorials incorrectly date the battle to April 18, likely an error of Hubbard's that was subsequently reprinted.
Their leader was Robert Cushman who, in 1620, had been the Leiden agent in London for the Mayflower and Speedwell.
The colonists attacked the fort, and five Native Americans who had surrendered were slaughtered by Maryland militia, which led to charges filed against both Washington and Allerton in the General Court at Williamsburg.
Both companies established settlements in 1607 - the London Company in Jamestown, and the Plymouth Company in Plymouth.
It involved the Wabanaki Confederacy raiding colonial American settlements along the New England Colonies/Acadia border in present-day Maine.
and Canada and $1,116,000 elsewhere; but, because of its high cost, ended up incurring a loss of $1,856,000.
History The Improved Order of Red Men fraternal organization commissioned the statue for the 1921 Pilgrim Tercentenary.
They were expected to give up own cultural lifeways, attire, religion, and anything else that the colonists considered "uncivilized." The Massachusetts General Court recognized the work of Eliot and helped to establish additional praying towns.
The Podunks briefly fought in the 1675–76 King Philip's War, in which most of their fighting men died.
It treated of the theological tenets in which the continually-multiplying adventurers were, and in which they were not agreed; of their ambition to be governed by biblical laws; and of their love of liberty in England.
See also National Register of Historic Places listings in Bristol County, Massachusetts References External links The Spirit of Anawan Rock
Death and burial Philip Delano died in Duxbury, Plymouth Colony between August 22, 1681, and March 4, 1681/2.
Her husband at the time, Petonanuit, sided with the English, and his followers became the Fall River Indian settlement.
By 1607, secret meetings were being held at Scrooby Manor and about 50 reform-minded individuals began to worship together, led by Richard Clyfton and the Rev.
Hartwell, Richardson & Driver designed the current Romanesque-style building, completed 1899, which replaced the 1831 wooden Gothic structure.
Like most Americans, they have mixed ancestry, with descent from the Narragansetts and other tribes of the New England area, as well as Europeans and Africans.
She was the daughter of Sir William Pole, who was knighted by James I in 1601, and Mary Peryam, the daughter of Sir William Peryam, Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer.
Despite this, he wrote a series of publications after returning to England in October 1609 about the colonial effort in North America, where he marginalized the Company's involvement.
Morse and Parish, in making the publication complained of, had not violated any right, which any judicatory, legal or equitable, was competent to enforce.
A man named Wechunckfum/Abram testified that Molasses had confessed to killing an Englishman in the area.
History Smith's Castle was built in 1678 to replace an earlier structure which the Narragansett Tribe destroyed during King Philip's War.
Death James Cudworth is said to have made his journey to England, and to have died, of smallpox, in London.
In barrel aging, the natural properties of the wood allow for gentle aeration of the wine to occur over a prolonged period.
Riots in the city of Narbonne prompted Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau to send the French army to the city.
Galets roulés are components of the terrain, or terroir, and a distinguishing feature of many of the vineyards in the Côtes du Rhône AOC and more specifically Châteauneuf-du-Pape AOC and other top wine-producing areas in the regions such as Gigondas AOC and Vacqueyras AOC.
The Marriage Feast At Cana is a painting that was formerly attributed to the Early Netherlandish master Hieronymus Bosch.
The process is almost always used in conjunction with red wine production since some of the flavor compounds produced by volatile phenols tend to form undesirable flavors with white wine grape varieties.
Reference in Christian writings In the Catechism of the Catholic Church, the Eucharist is called the wedding feast of the Lamb "where he gives his body and blood at the request of the Church, his Bride." See also Ancient Israelite cuisine Jewish cuisine Kashrut == References ==
In the rear of the room garnishing the wall in Tintoretto's version are elaborately decorated Ionic Columns reminiscent of ancient Greek architecture.
Pospíšilová has developed 24 new varieties of grape that are grown in Slovakia, including Breslava, Děvín, Diamant, Dunaj, Helios, Hetera, Hron, Mars, Nitranka, Rimava, Rosa, Rubanka, Rudava, Torysa, and Váh.
It took her six years of research and planning to prepare the right procedure and the correct concoction.
Bundschu was part of the family that owns and operates the Gundlach Bundschu winery, located in Sonoma, California.
He also served as chairman of the Rishon Lezion branch of the Association of colonies, branch chairman of the Association of Rishon Lezion, member of the Maccabi Eretz Israel, and was a member of an organization headquarters defense.
Starting in 1953, he directed the Vineyard Association, the controlling shareholder in Carmel Winery, and held this position for about thirty years.
In 1963 he was instrumental in establishing the Winemaking National Guild of Judges (now National Guild of Wine and Beer Judges) and was one of its early chairmen.
From 2007 to 2019 he was a member of the Schaan municipal council as a member of the Patriotic Union.
For example, when one adds equal amounts of salt and sugar to equal amounts of water, the degrees Brix of the salt solution Rises faster than the sugar solution, because it is denser.
The fact of our Lord taking part in the marriage-feast teaches us that it is lawful and pleasing to God that we should take part in innocent recreations and harmless pleasures, rejoicing with those who rejoice.
The major symbol of ancient Greek art in Damaskinos's works was the consistent use of ancient Greek Cretan meander patterns.
Wedding at Cana also known as Wedding Feast at Cana and Le Nozze di Cana is an oil painting by Michael Damaskinos.
Life Jose Galante studied oenology at the Facultad Tecnologica de Enologia e Industrias Frutihorticolas "Don Bosco" in Rodeo del Medio, Maipu, Mendoza.
Winemaking Galante, along with Paul Hobbs, modernized wine making in Argentina, transforming Argentine wine and bringing quality Argentine wine, most notably malbec, to the U.S.
Jesus was doing in His Father's house, it may be, what was then being done in every house in Jerusalem.
A typical Campden tablet contains 0.44 g of sodium metabisulfite, plus filler; eight of these are equivalent to one-half level teaspoon (2.5 mL) of sodium metabisulfite.
After the day's meal is over, Birkat Hamazon and Sheva Brachot are recited, and the newlyweds dance.
Throughout the fermentation process, carbon dioxide is released as a byproduct of the conversion of sugar into alcohol.
In winemaking The amount of FAN that winemakers will see in their grape depends on a number of components including grape variety, rootstock, vineyard soils and viticultural practices (such as the use of fertilizers and canopy management) as well as the climate conditions of particular vintages.
Military service In 1891, Fiaschi joined the New South Wales Lancers, a reserve colonial unit, as an honorary surgeon captain.
In response to violent demonstrations by protesters in 1907, the French government began regulating the amount of sugar that can be added to wine.
This Andalusian tradition is comparable in character to France's Beaujolais Nouveau: seasonal, unfiltered, and consumed within the same year of production.
And a son – Henri Gineste de Saurs – opened his group of restaurants outside Paris, under the name L'Entrecôte, in Toulouse (in 1962), Bordeaux (in 1966), Nantes (in 1980), Montpellier (in 1990), Lyon (in 1999) and Barcelona (in 2019).
Thomas Henry Fiaschi (Italian: Tommaso Enrico Fiaschi; 31 May 1853 – 17 April 1927) was an Italian-Australian surgeon.
It is celebrated as a professional holiday by wine growers, falconers, gardeners, barrel-makers and innkeepers.
From 1989 to 2021 he was the group leader and department head at the special education centre in Schaan.
Winemaking Torulaspora delbrueckii has been associated with winemaking for decades and isolated either from grape, must or wine.
Jansje and her husband were the ones who took care of the writers on their return to Holland after nine years of exile in France, a consequence of their patriotic sympathies during the period of conflict between the Dutch Patriots and Orangists.
At the time it showed a portrait and only when the overpainting was removed did the tempera painting of the wedding come to light.
He was later appointed chairman of the board of medical studies at 1909 and honorary consulting surgeon in 1911.
It is produced by concentrating the teinturier grape Rubired, a cross between Alicante Ganzin and Tinta Cão, has 68% sugar and sells for approximately $135 a gallon.
In wine, it is often used to replace potassium sorbate, as it inactivates wine spoilage yeasts such as Brettanomyces.
French oak, on the other hand, generates silky and transparent tannins, which transmit a sensation of light sweetness combined with fruity flavors that persist in the mouth.
The most common genera of wild yeasts found in winemaking include Candida, Klöckera/Hanseniaspora, Metschnikowiaceae, Pichia and Zygosaccharomyces.
Awards 2023: Award of the Mayor of Pezinok for an active life connected with cultural events in Pezinok and in the field of winemaking References == External links ==
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
Bordeaux tries to save itself: The region's growers take drastic steps to cut their glut and pump up sales.
The compound is produced from the degradation of the amino acid arginine which is present in both grape must and released in the wine through the autolysis of dead yeast cells.
After a minimum maturation period of 60 days, a group of expert technicians will test the resulting product analytically as well as organoleptically (via taste, aroma, the palette and other senses).
Early life Fiaschi was born on 31 May 1853 in Florence, Italy, then within the Grand Duchy of Tuscany.
Quercetin is removed from red wines via the finings gelatin, casein, and PVPP to reduce astringent flavors.
With very acidic grapes like Sangiovese this process will temper some of the harshness and volatility in the wine.
The solid portion of the must is called pomace and typically makes up 7–23% of the total weight of the must.
These phenomena may be prevented by sterile filtration, by the addition of relatively large quantities of sulfur dioxide and sometimes sorbic acid, by mixing in alcoholic spirit to give a fortified wine of sufficient strength to kill all yeast and bacteria, or by pasteurization.
In Jewish eschatology, the messiah will hold a seudat nissuin with the righteous of every nation, called a Seudat Chiyat HaMatim, and they will feast on the cooked flesh of the Leviathan.
Christian Moueix (French: [mu.ɛks]; born 1946) is a French winemaker and the president of the négociant house Établissements Jean-Pierre Moueix in Libourne, overseeing production in several estates in Saint-Émilion and Pomerol including Château La Fleur-Pétrus and Château Trotanoy.
The name is derived from John 2:1–12, the Wedding at Cana in Galilee, where Jesus performed the miracle of turning water into wine.
During the process of toasting, the furanic aldehydes in the wood reach a higher level of concentration.
The typical wine grape will have anywhere from 22 to 1242 mg of nitrogen/liter derived from free amino acids.
British hothouse In September 2006, the Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad as well as other national and international media made mention of a more than two hundred years old African seed granule, which had been kept all that time in British archive depositories, currently at The National Archives.
If the layer of lees begins to exceed 4 inches (10 centimeters), the enzymes released from the process of the yeast digesting themselves creates reducing conditions and promotes the development of hydrogen sulfide and mercaptan odors.
In the case of great Chardonnay, such as Montrachet, this adds a toasty, nutty "hazelnut" quality and additional depth and complexity.
In a wine intended to be still this is regarded as a serious fault; it can even cause the bottle to explode.
They have a daughter and a son: Camille Sereys de Rothschild (born 1961) Philippe Sereys de Rothschild (born 1963) Jean-Pierre de Beaumarchais (born 1944), a bibliographer and scholar, who is a relative of 18th-century playwright Pierre Beaumarchais.
As with any other instruments, MIR and FT-IR instruments can be calibrated against pure sucrose solutions and thus report in °Bx, but there are other possibilities with these technologies, as they have the potential to distinguish between sugars and interfering substances.
He was born in 1896 in Montfaucon, Lot, France, into an ancient aristocratic family, the son of Bernard de Chaunac-Lanzac and Marguerite Bibonnet.
6 The closing chorale, "Erhalt mein Herz im Glauben rein" (If my heart remains pure in faith), is a four-part setting.
The engraved tumbler survives to this day having become a treasured part of Sir Walter Scott's collections at Abbotsford House.
He arrived in Virginia on 10 June 1610, which enabled him to help with colonists that had survived the Starving Time of that prior winter.
Additionally, many of today's modern presses are computerized, which allows the operator to control exactly how much pressure is being applied to the grape skins and for how many cycles.
In 1983, Johnston moved a resolution to declare Ontario a nuclear weapons-free zone but it was defeated, a decision that moved him to tears.
The pressure must be controlled, especially with grapes, in order to avoid crushing the seeds and releasing a great deal of undesirable tannins into the wine.
After studying literature, she and her father, Gao Lin, moved to Russia in the late 1980s, where she studied economic agriculture at Leningrad State University.
See also Clarification and stabilization of wine Wine rack References Further reading Blouin, Jacques; Peynaud, Émile (13 June 2012).
External links Wine war: Savvy New World marketers are devastating the French wine industry Delpeuch urges rapid and radical reform CIVB President resigns in despair
Some winemakers use the decreasing sugar level (such as brix measurement) scale and press once the wine has reached complete dryness.
He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order and was promoted to lieutenant-colonel on his return.
At Salentein, Galante continues to focus on the international reputation of malbec, especially that of wines made from high altitude fruit.
This decision coincided with the Chinese government's efforts to establish a wine region in Ningxia's Helan Mountains, with Gao helping in the family business, which produced Ningxia wine.
They may also bind with the tannins in the wine to reduce the perception of bitterness or astringency in the wine.
While at Moët & Chandon, she spent time creating red wines used in producing rosé sparkling wines, including Dom Perignon Rosé.
Also, winemakers have been using technological advances, such as reverse osmosis to remove water from the unfermented grape juice, thereby increasing its sugar concentration, but decreasing the volume of wine produced.
He crusaded for improved benefits to the poor and disabled by attempting to live for a month on a "welfare diet" in 1982, limiting his food budget to that of the average person on welfare.
Special experience Harvest experience tours, also known as "harvest internships" or "crush camps," are tours or programs that allow visitors to experience the winemaking process firsthand by participating in the grape harvesting and crushing process.
Grape-treading or grape-stomping is part of the method of maceration used in traditional wine-making.
The novel The Secret of Santa Vittoria and the film based on it, taking place in a wine-producing Italian town during WWII, include a grape treading scene which has a major role in the battle of wits between the townspeople and their German occupiers.
She was made an Officier of the Légion d'Honneur in 2007, and in 2013 was given a lifetime achievement award by the Institute of Masters of Wine.
While Vitis vinifera varieties have ultimately supplanted the majority of French hybrid plantings in eastern North America, hundreds of hectares remain in production, some even used to produce "cult wines" from old vine plantings.
It claims that the quality of wine can be measured chemically, and a score assessed, much like a wine critic.
During this marriage, he owned the Spier estate in Stellenbosch, which he is also said to have named after his own homeland in Europe.
Trifon himself is traditionally considered to be their patron saint, and in old church iconography, as the patron saint of winemakers, the saint is sometimes depicted with a scythe (a type of sickle) in his hand.
It is a common misconception that Campden tablets can be used to halt the ferment process in wine before all the available sugars are converted by the yeast, hence controlling the amount of residual sweetness in the final product.
Benefits Exposure to oxygen during production may improve wine, but the exposure must be limited: too much oxygen can lead to oxidation while too little can lead to reduction, either one leading to its associated wine faults.
The musicologist Julian Mincham writes that the "hybrid recitative provides an excellent example of Bach's experiments of investing long texts with sustained musical interest".
This car was not grey but after that one, other expensive cars followed, and they were all in her shade of grey.
The reason why co-fermentation is not more widely practiced is that it "locks in" a certain blend already at the start of the fermentation, which gives the winemaker less possibility to adjust the blend after fermentation.
The Israeli army claimed it was a mistake, stating that Hezbollah elements were located near the camp.
These steps will each have their own subtle or dramatic effect on the resulting flavors and quality of the wine.
Reference in the Bible Old Testament In Tobit 7:14, after marrying, Tobiah and Sarah "began to eat and drink" with their parents.
Winemaking considerations During fermentation, there are several factors that winemakers take into consideration, with the most influential to ethanol production being sugar content in the must, the yeast strain used, and the fermentation temperature.
Carbonic maceration is a winemaking technique, often associated with the French wine region of Beaujolais, in which whole grapes are fermented in a carbon dioxide rich environment before crushing.
Developed in 1991 by Patrick DuCournau, working with the exceptionally tannic grape Tannat in Madiran, the process gained usage in modern winemaking following the 1996 authorization by the European Commission.
Gao's first vintage as chief winemaker was praised by Chinese and international winemakers, and two of her red wines are among the best known produced in China.
She acted under the stage name Philippine Pascal (imprinting on her paternal grandfather Henri de Rothschild who also used the last name Pascal to write plays).
According to Moore, a moral actor cannot survey the 'goodness' inherent in the various parts of a situation, assign a value to each of them, and then generate a sum in order to get an idea of its total value.
Additionally, he contributed to Arabic philology as well as lexicography, recording vocabulary and expressions of the Bedouin tribes which had not previously been recorded.
“Quaestiones in Aristotelis libros ethicorum”, edited by Iacopo Costa, in: “Le questiones di Radulfo Brito sull’Etica Nicomachea” Introduction (in Italian) and critical text.
This education allowed him to hold several government offices at the prefecture level, and ultimately rise to a post in the royal library.
The text, state Howard and Raja, describes compound word formation based on syntactic and semantic considerations, such as in sutra 2.1.1.
He also wrote letters, a didactic poem (sometimes classed as the last ensenhamen), a grammar, and some treatises on computation (i.e.
This helped to advance understanding of how the fields of internal languages are demarcated and he assisted the development of the empirical study of linguistics.
He was called "the most learned of the Romans" by Quintilian, and also recognized by Plutarch as "a man deeply read in Roman history".
Latin essays were very popular in the Middle Ages, but Dante made some innovations in his work: firstly, the subject (writing in vernacular) was an uncommon topic in literary discussion at that time.
A Latin translation by Georg Freytag, entitled Arabum Proverbia, was published at Bonn in 1838–1843.
His family was under the patronage of the Qurayshi tribe, and his father was a qāḍī (judge) in Seville and Écija.
It was only in 1827 that Champollion succeeded in translating the hieroglyphs, revealing that they included the names of Domitian, his father Vespasian and his brother Titus.
Works His notable books in history are as follows: 1-Papers in the culture and history of Yaman.(Arabic).
Deep structures are often only represented in the mind (a mirror of thought), as opposed to surface structures, which are not.
Green-Pedersen and Jan Pinborg, in: “Radulphus Brito: commentary on Boethius’ De differentiis topicis and the sophism Omnis homo est omnis homo”, Cahiers de l’Institut du Moyen-Âge Grec et Latin, 26, 1980 pp.
Some experts consider the Bhoja's work as a revision of the veteran Panini and among "most voluminous" Sanskrit works.
Scott visiting professor at Queen's University, Kingston, Canada (1985); visiting fellow in humanities at University of Bologna, Italy (2009).
Æthelstan A borrowed heavily from Aldhelm; he would not copy whole sentences, only a word or a few words, incorporating them in a structure reminiscent of Aldhelm's works.
He explains grammatical gender by saying that masculine or feminine gender was ascribed, either randomly or by some consensus (seu licenter seu decenter), to some entities which lack natural gender.
It sought mainly to help speakers of Koine Greek understand the language of Homer, and other great poets of the past.
Most of the mantras in Sama Veda are either from the Rk Veda or adapted from it, though sung differently.
Examples of regional variation LAP materials document regional variation in American English vocabulary.
The "Objector" assumes that "a white horse is not a horse" is parallel to "a sword is not a weapon," but the "Sophist" is treating the statement as parallel to "a sword is not a blade." Other interpretations have been put forward by Fung Yu-lan and Chad Hansen, among others.
There is no use of sphoṭa as a technical term prior to Patañjali, but Pāṇini (6.1.123) refers to a grammarian named Sphoṭāyana as one of his predecessors.
In the United States, Tarski held a number of temporary teaching and research positions: at Harvard University (1939), at City College of New York (1940), and thanks to a Guggenheim Fellowship, at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton (1942), where he again met Gödel.
[3] Paper by Wiebke Petersen on 'A Mathematical Analysis of Pāṇini’s Śiva sūtras.' [4] Paper by Madhav Deshpande on 'Who Inspired Pāṇini?
The principle was at the time at the heart of the debates of the so-called Vienna Circle, which Ayer had visited as a young guest.
The work, which is a compendium, is valuable as it contains excerpts from the earlier writers on grammar, who are in many cases mentioned by name: Remmius Palaemon, Julius Romanus (Gaius Iulius Romanus), Comminianus.
The examples it includes to illustrate the rules preserve numerous fragments from Latin authors which would otherwise have been lost, including Ennius, Pacuvius, Accius, Lucilius, Cato, Trajan, and Varro.
His father was Aws ibn Thabit also a hadith narrator, while his grandfather Thabit ibn Bashir was one of the three scribes who wrote down the Qur'an during Muhammad's era.
"The Virgil Commentary of Aelius Donatus: Black Hole or 'Éminence Grise'?" Greece & Rome 37.1: 65–79.
He has endeavoured to show that the puzzles and 'mysteries' of consciousness dissolve under careful analysis of the various forms of intransitive and transitive consciousness, and that so-called qualia are no more than a philosopher's fiction.
doi:10.1002/9780470998656.ch4 External links George Edward Moore – philosophypages.com The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy George Edward Moore Moore's Moral Philosophy Works by G.
Abū Zayd Sa’īd ibn Aws al-Anṣārī (أبو زيد سعيد بن أوس الأنصاري; died 830 CE/215 AH) was an Arab linguist and a reputable narrator of hadith.
Priscian was born and raised in the North-African city of Caesarea (modern Cherchell, Algeria), the capital of the Roman province of Mauretania Caesariensis, which during his lifetime would be under the control of the Vandalic Kingdom.
Ibn Mada felt that scholarly work on the Arabic language was intentionally convoluted and inaccessible to both non-native speakers and laymen Arabs, and that an overall simplification of language and grammar would enhance overall comprehension of Arabic.
Yin Weizi first argues for the primacy of the Dao, before immediately addressing the philosophy of the Rectification of Names, arguing that names (名) should correspond to reality (形) before quoting Confucius.
He was the author of a treatise on metres, dedicated to one of his pupils, a youth of senatorial rank, who desired to be instructed in the Horatian metres.
Although a grammar book, Sibawayh extends his theme into phonology, standardised pronunciation of the alphabet and prohibited deviations.
His humanity, good will, gentleness, and especially his encouragement have been documented by many of his peers.
The Wafayat al-Ayan (Obituaries of Eminent Men) by Ibn Khallikan contains a similar account with additional information: Great diversity of opinion exists about his name, surname and genealogy.
Ayer was also involved in politics, including anti-Vietnam War activism, supporting the Labour Party (and later the Social Democratic Party), chairing the Campaign Against Racial Discrimination in Sport, and serving as president of the Homosexual Law Reform Society.
Example An example of Tatwine's work is enigma 11, on the needle: List Tatwine's riddles are on the following topics.
Published at that time more than ninety articles in newspapers and magazines since 1982 related to the Yemeni history and the Yemeni Art.
The Aindra(of Indra) school of Sanskrit grammar is allegedly one of the ancient schools of Sanskrit grammar.
Terentianus, surnamed Maurus (a native of Mauretania), was a Latin grammarian and writer on prosody who flourished probably at the end of the 2nd century AD.
Korner, ed., Observation and Interpretation in the Philosophy of Physics, New York: Dover Publications.
This distinction is also the origin of procedural (knowing-how) and declarative (knowing-that) models of long-term memory.
Upasarga is a term used in Sanskrit grammar for a special class of twenty prepositional particles prefixed to verbs or to action nouns.
In book 17 of the Zhuangzi, Gongsun speaks of himself: When young, I studied the way of the former kings.
Usage Ancient Yaska, in his famous text titled Nirukta, asserts that Rigveda in the ancient tradition, can be interpreted in three ways - from the perspective of religious rites (adhiyajna), from the perspective of the deities (adhidevata), and from the perspective of the soul (adhyatman).
His refutation was written toward the end of his life and demonstrated his clarity of thought and independent judgment, causing his student Ibn Dihya al-Kalby to brand him as the leader of all grammarians.
Bhaṭṭikāvya Indian curriculums in the late classical era had at their core a system of grammatical study and linguistic analysis.
In October 1965, he tore up his Labour Party card because he suspected Harold Wilson's Labour government was going to send troops to support the United States in Vietnam.
4-Glossary of cities and villages in the southern Levant (Syria).(Arabic :بلاد الشام الجنوبية سورية).
De ultimis syllabis ad Caelestinum, a work explaining the quantities and other features of word-endings in the Latin language.
from German to French by Derenbourg and Soury (1873) Le Livre de Sibawaih; the great grammatical treatise known as "Al-Kitāb", or The Book of Sibawayh (c.
Works Kitab al-Amaly (كتاب الأمالي; Book of Dictations) Commentary on the Jumal of Ibn Jinni Commentary on the Tasrif al-Muluki Hamasa See also List of pre-modern Arab scientists and scholars == References ==
It has become a source for how ancient texts should be acted out based on the experience from commonly read ancient authors.
The authorship and date of the oldest Unadi-Sutras (known as the Panchapadi-Unadi-Sutras) is uncertain; some authors would attribute them to Pāṇini himself, others to his predecessors, such as Śākaṭāyana, Āpiśali, or Kātyāyana.
Returning to Saint Petersburg in 1842, he was attached to the Royal Academy of Sciences, and was elected an ordinary member of that society in 1855.
Pratishakhya (Sanskrit: प्रातिशाख्य prātiśākhya), also known as Parsada (pārṣada), are Vedic-era manuals devoted to the precise and consistent pronunciation of words.
External sandhi effects can sometimes become morphologised (apply only in certain morphological and syntactic environments) as in Tamil and, over time, turn into consonant mutations.
"apology of the Egyptian vernacular", literally "the lifting of the burden from the speech of the population of Egypt"), which survives in a unique manuscript kept at St.
The Sarasvataprakriya (Sanskrit: सारस्वतप्रक्रिया; IAST: Sārasvataprakriyā) is a text on Sanskrit grammar written by Anubhūti Svarūpācārya between 1250 and 1450.
See also al-Akhfash al-Awsat (the Middle) al-Akhfash al-Aṣghar (the Younger) Akhfash's goat == References ==
Ibn Mada was notable for having challenged the traditional formation of Arabic grammar and of the common understanding of linguistic governance among Arab grammarians, performing an overhaul first suggested by Al-Jahiz 200 years prior.
One of his works is al-Ikhtiyārayn (الاختيارين), which has been edited and published in a modern edition.
Necklace of the Goddess Sarasvati] is a Sanskrit Vyakarana treatise, authored by Bhoja deva, a king of Paramara dynasty in the 11th century.
The book dwells on earlier styles of composition; the Bedande, the Chattana, and the Gadyakatha, and indicates that these styles were recognised by puratana kavi (lit, "earlier poets").
The main issues that cultural translation must solve consist of translating a text as showing the cultural differences of that text while also respecting the source culture as well.
El-Said Muhammad Badawi (Arabic: السعيد محمد بدوي, romanized: Al-Saʿīd Muḥammad Badawī; 1929 – March 16, 2014) was a scholar and linguist and author of many works, both in English and in Arabic, dealing with various aspects of the Arabic language.
Rather, one simply needs to identify the statement as a tautology (true), a contradiction (false), or neither.
Ibn al-Qūṭiyya's student al-Faraḍī composed a short sketch of his master for his biographical dictionary, preserved in a late medieval manuscript discovered in Tunis in 1887.
He grew up loving knowledge and scholars, so he learned from many of them and associated with some of the literary and virtuous people.
Descended from a branch of the Banu Tamim, Ibn al-ʻAlāʼ is one of the seven primary transmitters of the chain of narration for the Qur'an.
He accompanied Al-Shihab Abd al-Latif ibn al-Marhil and recited to Ibn al-Siraj, and he heard from Abu Hayyan Al-Andalusi the Diwan (collection) of Zuhayr bin Abi Sulma, but he did not stay with him or read to him anything else.
Marcomannic runes A runic alphabet recorded in a treatise called De Inventione Litterarum has been ascribed to Rabanus.
Sanskrit-Wörterbuch in kürzerer Fassung 1879–1889 Panini's Grammatik 1887 Indische Sprüche - Band 1 1863 Band 2 1864 Band 3 1865, Saint Petersburg, Akad.
By using Ādeśa rather than vikāra, and holding on to varna-samāmnāya sound system, Pāṇini was able to achieve economy and brevity in the statements of algebraic system.
Naṣr bn ʿĀṣim al-Laythī or al-Duʾalī (Arabic: نصر بن عاصم اليثي; died 708/709) was an Arabic grammarian from Basra.
As was common at the time due to the enduring Tower of Babel myth, Hensel attempted to derive all languages from a common origin in Hebrew, following A philosophicall essay for the reunion of the languages, or, the art of knowing all by the mastery of one (1675) by Pierre Besnier (1648–1705).
Russell spent the 1950s and 1960s engaged in political causes primarily related to nuclear disarmament and opposing the Vietnam War.
The dissemination of printed Sanskrit texts, however, encouraged the predominance of one form of writing, the Devanāgarī script of central India in which the modern languages Hindī and Marāṭhī are also written.
See also American philosophy List of American philosophers References References Ontology and Analysis: Essays and Recollections about Gustav Bergmann, edited by Laird Addis, Greg Jesson, and Erwin Tegtmeier, Frankfurt: Ontos Verlag, 2007.
He quoted from the book Musālamāt al-Ashrāf (Gestures of Friendship of the Nobles) written by his paternal uncle al-Ḥasan ibn Muḥammad.
The system thus established is extremely detailed as to shiksha (phonology, including accent) and vyakarana (grammar and morphology).
Appendix Probi, dealing with the noun, the use of cases, rules of orthography (valuable in reference to the pronunciation of Latin at the time), and a table of Differentiae.
He held the position of Chair of Islamism and the religions of Arabia in the École des Hautes Études in Paris.
Words are created around object-agent, according to Yaska, to express external or internal reality perceived by man, and are one of six modifications of Kriya (action) and Bhava (dynamic being), namely being born, existing, changing, increasing, decreasing and perishing.
when his return to Syria continued teaching in his hometown Khabab and joined to the Arab Writers Union and to the Heritage Preservation Commission Hauran.
In the Haridäsa, Purédäsa, and Caitanya Maöha editions, which are all based on Bäla, kña is included as the final member of the alphabet.
1058–1148 AD) simply known as Ibn al-Shajari (إبن الشجري), was a prominent Arab grammarian, philologist and poet of Arabic.
Mink's largest contribution to history and philosophy of history was to emphasize the need for history to think of its published narratives as very similar to other narrative forms, such as fiction.
The numerous explanatory notes, which are a notable characteristic of the lexicon, make it a mine of information on historical details relating to the ritual.
Dictionarium quatuor linguarum (The Dictionary of Four Languages) is a 16th-century book by the German polymath Hieronymus Megiser that includes a multilingual dictionary and a multilingual grammar of Italian, Slovene, German, and Latin.
The vigraha (“separation of the constituent words”) of the compound word näräyaëa is: näram ayanam yasya saù näräyaëaù (“Näräyaëa is He whose shelter is the Vraja-väsés”) Thus the word näräyaëa here means Çré Kåñëa, the Supreme Personality of Godhead who appears in a human-like form.
Craig (ed.), Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, London: Routledge (1998) [1] Harold Coward, The Sphota Theory of Language: A Philosophical Analysis, Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, 1980.
Its full title reads: Synopsis universae philologiae: in qua: miranda unitas et harmonia linguarum totius orbis terrarum occulta, e literarum, syllabarum, vocumque natura & recessibus eruitur.
1976 revisions In 1976 the IPA council voted on a number of proposals for reform, several of which were already in unofficial use.
Robert Holden (born 1965) is a British psychologist, author, and broadcaster, who works in the field of positive psychology and well-being.
Affiliations, awards, and achievements Member of the International Coaching Federation (IFC) Presented the first Arabic meditation audio CD available on iTunes, Google Play, and Amazon.
Career Burnett is a DIY and interior design enthusiast and has been investing in and developing properties since 2009.
Science communicator Jonathan Jarry of the Office for Science and Society, McGill University described Sears as part of the conspirituality trend, combining conspiracy theories and New Age spirituality.
He is also a frequent resource person on psychological topics in the news programs and documentary shows of GMA Network, TV5 (Philippines), and other networks.
Her collection of short stories, New York 1, Tel Aviv 0, was published by FSG and Random House Canada in November 2014.
She also served as National Coordinator of the Coalition of Grassroots Women from 1981 to 1984 and ran for New York State Assembly in 1988.
He has guest starred on the television shows as NYPD Blue, ALF, and as the Ferengi Kazago in the Star Trek: The Next Generation episode "The Battle".
Personal life From 1990 to 2000 Søgaard was married to the successful Swedish singer Carola Häggkvist.
She is a certified life coach through the International Coaching Federation, specializing in family recovery and relationships, and founded the organization Families United for Recovery.
He made a X-Up Case Study: Currency as an advertising medium – X-Up: Creative Vision about the campaign.
Career After graduating from college, Magalski became a casting assistant and production coordinator for various TV shows on ABC and CBS.
Welcome to the world baby: 'Kaabo sinu aye Omo titun' Dual Language Yoruba translation by Abimbola Alao.
For this conduct Santos separately agreed to plead guilty to perjury, and guilty for helping others distribute the cocaine leftover from the previous indictment.
She has played shows with Our Lady Peace, Bif Naked, Paul Hyde, Strapping Young Lad, DOA, the Melvins, and Jello Biafra, and performed approximately 500 live shows from 1986 to 2010 including November 29, 2003, at the Pacific Coliseum in Vancouver, British Columbia, with THOR and D.O.A.
Filmography References External links Official Doug Warhit Website Doug Warhit at IMDb Doug Warhit at Yahoo Movies
Duke accompanied Sorokin and Rachel DeLoache Williams on a trip to La Mamounia in Marrakech in May 2017.
Donna Yoh (June 22, 1959 – August 9, 2011) was an American politician who served one term in the Kansas House of Representatives as the representative from the 2nd district.
Burton is a credentialed member of the International Coach Federation and a member of the National Speakers Association.
In 2004, Congress passed the Debbie Smith Act, which provided funding for police to work off backlogs of unexamined rape kits like Masters.
During the filming of the show, Arlington's daughter, Alexis, was arrested for her involvement in the Bling Ring, a crime group that broke into the homes of celebrities including Orlando Bloom, Audrina Patridge, Paris Hilton, Rachel Bilson, and Lindsay Lohan.
One Day My Soul Just Opened Up: 40 Days And 40 Nights Toward Spiritual Strength And Personal Growth.
She has also been on various compilations including Trooper tribute and a Green Party album featuring Bruce Cockburn and Bill Henderson, Joe Keithley (D.O.A.), and Bif Naked.
In 2012 his business Vinger Consulting AB was threatened with bankruptcy following a lawsuit by On Strategies LLC.
Biography In 1990, after several years observing the decision-making strategies of traders such as Richard Dennis, Jim Rogers, Paul Tudor Jones and Tom Baldwin, Faulkner himself became a trader.
Her band toured and shared stages with such gospel artists as: Kirk Franklin, Yolanda Adams, Cece Winans, Donnie McClurkin, T-Bone, Hezekiah Walker, and Vicki Winans.
Because this is a somatic event rather than an exclusively cognitive one, new information or theoretical insight will not shift the response.
Later in 2020, White was announced as a returning cast member for a touring production of The Play That Goes Wrong.
Bibliography See also List of Auburn University people Business fable References External links Official Andy Andrews website
She resumed swimming in 2003 after a 23-year hiatus and is now a top-ranked Masters Swimmer in multiple events.
Dance In 1990, Rosen co-founded Amy Pivar Dances, a contemporary dance theater company that performed works created in collaboration with Amy Pivar, a Bessie Award winner.
Professional career Early recruiting career Claudio began his professional career in the recruiting and healthcare staffing industry.
Deliverance demonstrated Cardwell's exploration of neo soul, as well as further use of soul and hip hop than compared to previous releases.
Portrayal in popular culture She is portrayed by Laverne Cox in the 2022 Netflix drama series Inventing Anna.
Charitable work and community service A significant aspect of Jeshurun's charitable work involves organizing and participating in football matches for various causes.
It premiered at the South by Southwest film festival in March 2016 and was released by Netflix on July 15, 2016.
News outlet Costa Rica Hoy observed that Costa Ricans familiar with Sears's satirical style would probably be amused by the video, while those who were unfamiliar with it would not.
She has been a recurring columnist for Backstage magazine, and in 2012 she published her book How to be a Happy Actor in a Challenging Business: A Guide to Thriving Through it All.
She attended Kyneton Secondary College, before going on to complete a Graduate Diploma of Arts in Commercial Radio in Melbourne.
McLean had been crowned Miss Namibia 1991 before Miss Universe, and also placed as the fourth runner-up at Miss World 1991.
In 2001, he published How to Build a Multi-level Money Machine: The Science of Network Marketing, a book about success in the network marketing business.
She appeared in the 2022 Netflix documentary series The Real Bling Ring: Hollywood Heist, which covers her daughter's role in the crime group the Bling Ring.
In 2012, his third book, The Charge: Activating the 10 Human Drives That Make You Feel Alive reached #1 on The Wall Street Journal bestseller list.
Co-star Don Franklin expressed his dissatisfaction with the show, and Vail was reported to have left the show entirely (according to some show sources over a dispute with Seven Days co-star Jonathan LaPaglia), only to later return and finish the third season.
Early life White was born on 28 May 1995 to a Jamaican mother and an English father, alongside sister Cat and another sister.
Although Santos was not initially charged with distribution of cocaine that took place after his arrest, he made a statement to the U.S.
Psychotherapy practice Rosen's crown achievement was her psychotherapy practice in New York City where she conducted group, individual and couples sessions for over 10 years.
By 1992 Santos earned a bachelor's degree from Mercer University (with a degree in human resources management).
Due to demand for additional support in the trans community, the founders of Point 5cc created a sister non-profit organization, Point of Pride.
Career Robbins began promoting seminars for motivational speaker and author Jim Rohn when he was 17 years old.
Recognition In April 2025, DDnard received the "Leader of the Year" award at the Women Changing the World Awards in London.
Magalski attended American International University (AIU) in London and graduated with a degree in Communications.
Shortly after her brother's death, Arlington began booking small acting roles on sitcoms in Los Angeles, where she met Mikel Neiers, a Hollywood cinematographer known for working as the director of photography on Friends and Spin City.
The couple also took part in series five of Celebrity Hunted in 2023 for charity Stand Up to Cancer.
In 1990 he passed an evaluation by the screening commissions and, as a person with integrity, was recommended for further service with the Ministry of the Interior.
Andrews was also a diamond in Amway's MLM business which allowed him to earn money from conventions and meetings.
An adult version of the children’s story, titled The Butterfly Effect, was also released as a gift book.
Marie Forleo (born December 7, 1975) is an American entrepreneur and founder of Marie Forleo International.
They won five out of six awards including best director and best production - a first in the school's history that the freshman year would win over higher years and winning most of the awards at the same time.
Through her initiatives and public engagements, she has contributed to discussions on diversity and leadership, including participation in events and programs aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Early years Burton grew up moving a number of times as a child in an Air Force family, living in Florida, West Germany and Colorado.
See also Human potential movement Self-help Notes External links Charles Faulkner Interview Charles's official website Further reading Schwager, Jack D.
Crabtree was played as a hopeless British undercover officer, disguised constantly as a French local policeman during the Second World War.
The novel follows Eli, a combat veteran struggling with PTSD, who finds redemption through faith and martial arts.
In 2014, he donated the profits of his book, Money: Master the Game, along with an additional personal donation, through Feeding America to provide meals to people in need.
Mercieca contributes to national television shows such as Seven Network's The Morning Show and Sunrise and Network 10's The Circle, radio stations, publications, and events.
In a 2013 interview with Playboy magazine, Robbins disclosed that he had been diagnosed with acromegaly at age 31, but refused his doctor's recommendation to undergo brain surgery.
Personal life Miller first started to diet when she was eight years old, developing an eating disorder while in 9th grade.
Abimbola’s teaching career began at the Institute of Education, University of Plymouth, where she was a tutor from 2003 to 2007.
And not just because you want to lose five pounds or you want blond hair and you have brown hair, but actually just disassociating from the body that you're in, and feeling like you're stuck in it.
Research interests Trauma In August of 2024, Tumminio Hansen published Trauma-Informed Spiritual Care: Interventions for Safety, Meaning, Reconnection, and Justice.
He served as a campaign staff member for Scott Walker, the then governor of Wisconsin, and was also a member of the national planning committee for Tony Evers, the incumbent governor of Wisconsin.
Caroline Adams Miller (born September 15, 1961) is an American executive coach and motivational speaker.
From 2005 to 2007 she sang in the two lead singer metal/rock band Approach The Throne, with Chris "Val" Valagao (Zimmers Hole) as the other singer.
Each person’s unique somatic shape is formed by responses to past experiences, positive and negative, which are established as deep, mostly unconscious patterns of muscular activity in the body.
She was a columnist for BlackAmericaWeb.com and is a frequent guest on CNN's Reclaim Your Career segment.
In 2017, the castle and estate manager employed by Peña at Guthrie Castle was found to have committed fraud by double or triple booking wedding facilities and paying the hire charges into their own account.
In 2013, the first English-language edition of The Compass of Now was released through The Life Compass Ltd.
In 2000, LaCroix became interested in the Human Potential Movement, studied to be a business coach, moved to the San Francisco Bay Area and began a private practice training and coaching business people in 2001.
In the 1992 Miss Universe pageant she finished second in the preliminary with a score of 9.147, right behind Carolina Izsak of Venezuela, who won all three preliminary competitions.
To combat teens' indifference to the threat of STD's, Franzini and MTV created a campaign in which teens were shown recklessly refusing protection in non-sexual contexts, such as riding a roller coaster and going shark diving.
After signing with a modelling agency she was featured on Pirelli Calendars, swimwear catalogues, and television adverts, from which she began to do topless modelling.
She is the author of four books, and has previously worked in finance, as a life coach, and public speaker.
In September 2020, Nantomah was recognized by the 45th President of the United States Donald Trump with the President’s Honours Roll.
In 2011, Johnson & Johnson hired Michael X Franzini to travel to all 50 states to photograph one baby in each state.
In 2000, Wade Cook sued Robbins for allegedly using copyrighted terms from Cook's book Wall Street Money Machine in his seminars.
While he assisted with many programs his main duties were to help players with the NFL transition and to help with support off of the field.
Awards As of March 16, 2015, Oria was a finalist for the Lambda Literary Award for Lesbian Fiction and a nominee for the Edmund White Award.
She worked for King World Productions before going back to school and received a Master's degree in Acting at The Maggie Flanigan Studio affiliated with Rutgers University.
New Age Thought and Religious Science Arlington became fascinated with Rhonda Byrne's book The Secret about the pseudoscientific law of attraction and Norman Vincent Peale's book The Power of Positive Thinking.
In 2000, Jeffries sued John White (also known as Don Steele) alleging invasion of privacy, business interference, slander and libel.
During the 1980s she wrote a weekly syndicated column, "Sexually Speakin' and Otherwise;" appeared on numerous radio and TV programs speaking on such topics as sex and intimacy; and led workshops on sexuality, women's issues, and lesbian and gay issues.
Arlington authored the book Revelations of a Bad Mom: Journey of Loving Your Child into Recovery and Healing Your Family.
In 2005, Bostrom guest-starred in Dead Man Walking, an audio drama based on the television series Sapphire and Steel.
Warhit has an undergraduate degree from New York University and a master's degree from Antioch University.
Chani Getter is an American counselor and interfaith minister focusing on those leaving the Haredi Jewish community and those in transition.
Caitriona Reed (born 1949) is an American sensei of Thiền Zen Buddhism who also has a background in Vipassanā meditation.
Books The Dreamer's Manifesto, 2018 ISBN 9781999957131 Stepping Beyond Intention, 2019 ISBN 9781999957117 Money Game, 2021 ISBN 9798461979881 External links Official website Daniel Mangena at IMDb == References ==
Philanthropy The Mystic Twins have made donations to orphanages and disadvantaged communities in Ghana, including in Kumasi and Accra, to support education and provide resources.
Dowling's appearance in Men's Health positively affected the lives of other transgender men, and his work has inspired other transgender people to create their own blogs and YouTube channels to document their own experiences.
In 2010 Clark lived with his then-girlfriend Umi (who is six months younger than him) in midtown Atlanta; he proposed on August 13, 2011 and the couple has since married.
Prior to that, it was produced at the former "brickhouse" studios where it had been produced for 5 years, and earlier at the TWiT "cottage", where it was produced for over 6 years.
As of May 22, 2017, she was working for Microsoft as a Senior Cloud Developer Advocate where she, among other things, hosted This Week in Channel 9.
She had been invited by a technology evangelist to film her Internet TV show at the mall instead of covering its debut at the Shadyside Apple store as she had originally planned.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
Linux Voice was a Linux and open source magazine (print and digital) which began publication in the UK in April 2014.
Martin was Director of Engineering for the Ubuntu Desktop team at Canonical and worked on desktop and devices before leaving the company in early 2021.
As part of the Mobile Nations network, Smartwatch Fans was the first non-mobile site under the Mobile Nations name.
During the show some advertisements for 3rd party commercial products or services are read out, by co-host Leo Laporte.
The process involved recordings made by each presenter on his own machine, as well as a backup analogue recording by Fabian.
Working under editor-in-chief Kevin Michaluk, Zeis ran the day-to-day on CrackBerry as Managing Editor.
The podcast was included on Education Technology Magazine's list of "6 Essential Podcasts for Tech Heads to Tune Into".
On May 7, 2021, the podcast expanded to include a full video format with the launch of the Waveform YouTube channel, making each episode available in both audio and video formats.
Radio affiliates "The Tech Guy" radio show was syndicated to several affiliates across America, including the show's flagship, KFI in Los Angeles, California.
Several regular guests would appear during the show via Zoom: AVSForum editor Scott Wilkinson, Dick DeBartolo of Mad Magazine, and Johnny Jet appeared on Saturdays while Chris Marquardt of Tips from the Top Floor has a Sunday segment.
Beginning on January 18, 2011, Mann has co-hosted the weekly Back to Work podcast with Dan Benjamin on 5by5, where they discuss subjects like productivity, work life, and true costs of doing business.
Reunion and revival On October 13, 2017, Rose and Albrecht released a "light Diggnation reunion" under the title of "Talking Tech", released within "The Kevin Rose Show" podcast.
Warren has interviewed many well-known members of the tech industry including Fred Wilson, venture capitalist and Jony Ive, Chief Design Officer at Apple Inc.
It featured previous episodes, as well as a live segment with Wyatt Cenac and Hallie Haglund of The Daily Show as well as Joe Randazzo, Joe Garden and Jill Morris of The Onion.
"51st thing" The shortlist selected by Harford for public vote as the 51st thing was: Credit card Glass Global Positioning System (GPS) Irrigation Pencil Spreadsheet The item selected by public vote was the credit card, announced by Harford in the episode entitled "Number 51".
After a year he became editor of Redherring.com and started writing a column about startups, which was emailed to over 150,000 subscribers every weekday.
TWiT Network Before joining TWiT as an employee, Merritt had a long-standing working relationship with former TechTV colleague Leo Laporte's network, having regularly appeared on This Week in Tech as either a guest or as a relief host.
I’ll be editorial director of the new Yahoo Tech site..." Star Trek book As a young man, Needleman wrote the book The Official Star Trek Trivia Book which was published by Pocket Books.
Media contact information is available on the Tech Nation website Academically, Bioentrepreneurship courses are throughout the university as they require the successful collaboration of multi-disciplinary expertise.
Format and distribution Waveform episodes are typically released on a weekly schedule and range from approximately 45 to 130 minutes in length, with monthly bonus episodes.
The show was a mixture of interviews and call-ins, as well as Laporte's own thoughts and opinions on current events in technology.
It sounds like life." And unlike traditional journalism, in which the reader is given only access to the final article, not the interview, Abumrad added that Radiolab's process is more transparent.
Segments/Bits Tropes Tropes are usually pointed out by the four hosts, such as sassy black female characters, wise-cracking sidekicks, false introductions, etc.
China Since its inception, Search Engine has broadcast stories pertaining to government control of the Internet in China, commented on the citizen journalism efforts in that nation, and criticized the Chinese government for the ways in which its policies restrict access to many Internet venues.
As of January 2024, the network hosts 14 podcasts; however, due to declining advertisement sales, some are being discontinued, or are only available with a Club TWiT subscription and the TWiT studio was closed in August 2024.
Work Warren began her career as a freelance writer for USA Today in 2007, where she wrote about American Idol as an "Idol Coach".
In January 2026, Warren was announced by Leo Laporte as the replacement regular co-host on MacBreak Weekly, replacing the long-standing Alex Lindsay who recently left for a full time position at Apple.
Mann was one of the hosts on the MacBreak video podcast, and a core host on the MacBreak Weekly audio podcast.
Film Sack is a weekly podcast focused on film and television created by Scott Johnson on the FrogPants Studios Network.
Ubuntu Podcast was an Ubuntu Linux news and technology podcast formed by the Ubuntu UK Local Community Team.
Each episode followed Josh and Chuck inside and outside the recording booth, combining the factual information of their podcast with humorous, fictional story lines that align with each podcast topic.
On July 2, 2024, Alex and Kevin reunited once more on episode 64 of "The Kevin Rose Show," "The Diggnation Reunion." In September 2024 the first episodes of a rebooted "Diggnation v2.0" were released, reviving the show.
The one-on-one discussions typically revolve around nuclear energy and related topics including political policy, climate change, and nuclear medicine.
Other episodes that year featured discussions with members of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission.
Josh is also a fan of The Simpsons, Firefly, Dollywood, Quentin Tarantino and shares an affinity with his cohost Bryant for the band Pavement.
The first book in the series was titled Wow in the World: The How and Wow of The Human Body and the second was titled Wow in the Wild: The Amazing World of Animals.
Launched in October 2017, episodes average around 30 minutes to an hour, each covering a single topic through original interviews, audio footage, and Rhysider's narration.
Episodes The first season of the show began with a short listing of the podcast's current sponsors, followed by a humorous fake advertisement (i.e.
Originally broadcast on Revision3, the first episode aired on July 1, 2005 and the last episode on December 30, 2011.
Until June 2011, shows were posted intermittently up to a week after their first airdate in order to meet the requirements of Laporte's Premiere contract for exclusivity purposes for the radio affiliates, and the live and taped video versions of the show required caller audio to be muted.
Hosted by Scott Johnson, Brian Ibbott, Brian Dunaway, and Randy Jordan, it features roundtable discussions on different films and occasional television episodes.
At the Center for Information Technology and Society (CITS) at the University of California, Santa Barbara, Searls is studying both the nature of infrastructure and of the Internet as a form of infrastructure.
The show's run ended in 2015, but a spiritual successor called California King was created in its wake in 2020 with the same team.
Career Jeffrey Zeldman briefly worked as a reporter for The Washington Post and ten years as an advertising copywriter before turning to web design in 1995.
Guests have included professors, business executives, politicians, diplomats, scientists, and others.
The first episode of the podcast was made available online on January 8, 2018 and featured Michael Shellenberger as the guest.
Presenters While the show had various presenters over the years, the line-up for the final 5 seasons was Alan Pope, Mark Johnson and Martin Wimpress.
Covered topics have included security vulnerabilities, firewalls, password security, spyware, rootkits, Wi-Fi, virtual private networks, and virtual machines.
In 2021, Vogt and another producer left the show following backlash critical of the work environment.
Thomas Andrew Merritt (born June 28, 1970) is an American technology journalist, writer, and broadcaster best known as the host of several podcasts.
Starting with a sound bite from the item being covered and a greeting by the hosts, a synopsis of the film will be read by voice-over actor Scott Fletcher.
The book was discussed at the 2021 Los Angeles Times Festival of Books as well as the 2021 San Antonio Book Festival.
Lawyers from TWiT believed this violated a spoken agreement between Leo Laporte and Twitter co-founder Evan Williams made in 2009, and infringed on TWiT's trademark.
He also hosted a radio show called Real Computing, and later 'Technically Speaking' on NPR, as well as a television show on TechTV (formerly ZDTV) called Silicon Spin.
Production Linux Outlaws was recorded simultaneously by the presenters in their respective homes – Hanover and Merseyside, England – and published in both the Ogg Vorbis and MP3 formats.
In 2015, a virtual reality blog called Road to VR started to syndicate all future episodes of the Voices of VR podcast on their website.
In September 2025, TBPN hired former Postmates and HQ Trivia executive Dylan Abruscato as President.
Early life Jeffrey Zeldman was born on January 12, 1955, in Queens, New York, to the robotics engineer Maurice Zeldman and his wife Phyllis Sylvia Zeldman.
On May 30, 2018, US Magistrate Judge Jaqueline Scott Corley granted Twitters' motion to dismiss the case.
Since then, More Perfect has not aired any more episodes, although reruns are still occasionally posted in the Radiolab feed.
The name was inspired by the audience communicating to Zomorodi that they listen to the show because they are interested in the "purposeful use of technology." Zomorodi released a book entitled "Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self" with St.
Microsoft's Stephen Toulouse responded in a Microsoft Security Response Center blog post the next day, saying the behavior was not intentional.
In reply to Dvorak's comments that Laporte was biased, Laporte told Dvorak "you won't ever have to worry about it again", insinuating that he never wanted Dvorak back on TWiT.
Episode 27 ("Chartbreakers") was highlighted for its investigation into the manipulation of the Apple Podcasts Top Charts through a vast industry termed as "dark podcast marketing".
In 2018, due to the success of the program, Guy Raz launched the "How I Built This Summit" at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California.
When the series premiered in April 2012, it was carried by 76 of NPR's member stations, including WHYY Philadelphia, KUOW Seattle and KOPB Portland.
On May 27, 2015 New Tech City changed its name to Note to Self, in response to listener suggestions.
David "Doc" Searls (born July 29, 1947), is an American journalist, columnist, and a widely read blogger.
Endless Thread is a podcast from Boston-based WBUR, in partnership with Reddit, that focuses on stories relating to Reddit posts.
Hosts Stuff You Should Know is hosted by two podcasters who first met while working as senior editors at HowStuffWorks.com, Josh Clark and Charles Wayne "Chuck" Bryant.
Designing with Web Standards reiterates many of the arguments made by the Web Standards Project to highlight the benefits of standards-compliant web design.
At the Berkman Center for Internet & Society he leads ProjectVRM, which guides independent software development communities working on Vendor Relationship Management (VRM).
Brown brought the issue to his own workplace, interviewing CBC's president Hubert Lacroix in reaction to a conflict between him and an anonymous critic who went by the handle "Ouimet." Producers / Contributors Jesse Brown is the host and one of the producers of Search Engine.
The first episode, a short announcement, was released on July 31, 2019, followed by the first full-length episode on August 9, 2019.
In its original format, Rose and Albrecht then discuss Digg stories from the previous week, with off-topic banter with each other and with Prager and camera operator Glenn McElhose.
The show has covered a large variety of topics, including R/wallstreetbets, QAnon, Geedis, "Rome, Sweet Rome", wrestling, and homelessness.
References External links 5by5 fireside.fm Hivelogic Bacon Method Cork'd PeepCode Playgrounder Dan Benjamin on 5by5 Archived May 8, 2014, at the Wayback Machine Interview with Dan about his Network Creation Archived March 30, 2019, at the Wayback Machine
Career Gunn's early career included work at NASA on large-scale scientific computation and global communications, with special emphasis in infrared satellite image processing, computational fluid dynamics, and global climate and weather modeling.
Hosts and correspondents Travis View has written extensively for the Washington Post on the subject of QAnon.
Guests generally include nuclear energy experts who come from various political, scientific, and business backgrounds.
In a 2007–2008 study by Multimedia Research (sponsored by the National Science Foundation), it was determined that over 95 percent of listeners reported that the science-based material featured on Radiolab was accessible.
Following that, he launched Corporate Computing magazine, and then moved on to become manager of advanced technologies for ZD Labs.
That fall, she was a featured participant in the first annual BlogWorld & New Media Expo which bills itself as the "World's Largest Social Media Conference".
Friedman calls Searls "one of the most respected technology writers in America." Searls' two academic fellowships both began in 2006.
Adam Zeis is an American writer and podcaster born in Morristown, New Jersey, on November 14, 1978, who currently serves as the Managing Editor of The Streamable.
Martin Wimpress Martin has been a Linux user since 1995 and first used the Warty Warthog release of Ubuntu.
He formerly worked for the NHS as a .NET developer before turning his back on Microsoft technologies to become an open source enthusiast.
Background and career Kim attended the University of Pennsylvania, majoring in Creative Writing and Fine Arts.
It was also broadcast in Australia on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's Radio National network.
Later on, due to a passionate cult following, Rhysider was able to enlist the help of additional writers, researchers, editors, and graphic designers.
In 2015 the winners in the software category were Scribus which was awarded £1000, GIMP was awarded £300 and Inkscape was awarded £200.
The show featured the week's top user submitted videos in comparison to Diggnation's primary focus on news articles.
In September 2011, Mann launched Roderick on the Line, a weekly conversation with musician/writer John Roderick.
After Laporte renewed his Premiere deal that month, these conditions were relaxed, and the show was allowed to be posted hours after first broadcast to TWiT, and caller audio could be heard on the live video and TWiT.am audio feeds.
The early themed episodes were not always science-related, but tackled issues such as the death penalty, religious fundamentalism and politics in Africa and the Middle East.
It provided the accounting requirements for interests in joint ventures and the reporting of joint venture assets, liabilities, income, and expenses.
Winfrey and her long-time partner Stedman Graham had discussed the idea of forming her own channel as early as 1992.
Its offerings are distributed through multiple channels such as agents, brokers, and bancassurance partnerships, as well as direct channels including telemarketing and digital platforms.
Following a government bailout of the country's largest bank at the turn of 2016 and 2017, Raiffeisen Bank Aval was the only bank in the top 5 not owned by the government of Ukraine.
The series has received three anime adaptions by Studio Deen, titled Rilu Rilu Fairilu: Yōsei no Door, Rilu Rilu Fairilu: Mahō no Kagami, and Oshiete Mahō no Pendulum: Rilu Rilu Fairilu.
Following the initial round of litigation, the second round of litigation occurred, through both the US Federal court system and the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, focused in part on the allegedly deceptive nature of the use of "Havana" in the name of a rum produced outside of Cuba.
Stoddard also claimed that the History Channel did not contribute to this phenomenon alone, but rather, it was caused by the misperception that documentaries are "objective sources of history".
Tegna, Inc., the successor to Gannett's broadcasting and digital properties, spun off Cars.com in May 2017.
History In April 2014, AT&T and the Chernin Group established Otter Media as the 50:50 joint venture to offer OTT services.
ULTRACOM — or Telecomunicaciones Ultramarinas de Puerto Rico (TUPR) in Spanish— is a telecommunications corporation that manages satellite and submarine communications cable systems connected to Puerto Rico.
Reception Critical response The show has received both positive and negative reviews because of its unique, provocative presentation and style.
Food Network is a pay television channel that airs both one-time and recurring (episodic) programs about food and cooking from the Food Network's library as well as commissioned programming developed regionally.
Products The company has the extensive contract experience in JTIDS Class 2 / 2H / 2M, the MIDS Fighter Data Link (FDL) and the MIDS Low Volume Terminal (LVT-1), with over $275 million in contracts to date and production deliveries started for MIDS LVT and FDL terminals.
Since 2016, it is completely owned by Turner Broadcasting System Latin America as VTR sold its participation in the channel to them.
It is unclear how Russian production of the SSJ-New would be affected by the deal, or how the new owners would establish a supply chain for the aircraft.
Shining a Light: A Concert for Progress on Race in America is a live benefit concert presented by A&E Networks and iHeartMedia, that aired on November 21, 2015 on six different television networks.
On August 30, 2019, the company announced that it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Taiwanese electronics manufacturer Lite-On's SSD business for US$165 million.
The company is headquartered in Daesan, Seosan, South Chungcheong Province, where it operates a large integrated refining and petrochemical complex.
Industry analysts also believe that Embraer may file suit to recover the $100–120 million it spent separating its commercial and military units, and claim lost business opportunities as orders for new jets were slow while customers were waiting for the deal to close.
Bio (stylised as bio., formerly The Biography Channel) was an Australian general entertainment channel available on Australia's Foxtel, Austar and Optus Television pay television services.
UPN ordered 36 sci-fi films to air as part of its weekly movie presentations beginning in 1998; the films were supplied by four production companies, with most of the titles coming from Paramount.
Africa The History Channel was launched on December 1, 2003, on the DStv satellite TV platform provided by MultiChoice in South Africa for Sub-Saharran Africa; it is currently on the DStv Compact Plus package.
However, in 1998, the company fell on hard times following the box-office disappointment of its production Godzilla.
After the Weinstein brothers left Miramax on September 30, 2005, the label was quietly discontinued in June 2006.
Branches: Singapore; Taiwan) TMEIC Industrial Systems India Private Limited (Hyderabad, Telangana India.
LH-Jetronic By the mid-1980s, JECS were using LH-Jetronic, and the new Bosch hotwire mass airflow meter.
IAS 31, titled Interests in Joint Ventures, was an International Accounting Standard issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) and adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In January 1989, USA debuted USA Up All Night, a showcase of low-budget feature films that aired as part of its weekend overnight schedule.
According to the experts in the total was about $450 million, but their math contradicts their prose.
Also, WMJF, a small student-run television station at Towson University just outside Baltimore, Maryland, still uses the same call letters (WMJF – Michigan J.
Programming List of programs schedule broadcast by Food Network Asia Archived 2010-07-03 at the Wayback Machine High-definition feed Food Network Asia HD is a 1080i high definition simulcast of Food Network Asia.
On 18 December 2009, the channels of Sogecable, a Prisa business, merged into the Gestevisión Telecinco, which already controlled Spain's Telecinco channel.
Arm Holdings plc is a British semiconductor and software design company based in Cambridge, England, whose primary business is the design of central processing unit (CPU) cores that implement the ARM architecture family of instruction sets.
Joint Property Interest - Each IJV participant contributes property, cash, or other properties and organizational capital for the pursuit of a common and specific business purpose.
Already in liquidation, Warner Sogefilms was handed a €2.4 million fine by the CNMC for having coordinated with other film majors to standardize their commercial policies.
In March 2012, Discovery International France took a 20% stake in Télévista to accompany the latter in its bid to obtain a TNT (Télévision numérique terrestre en France) frequency and in strengthening the Vivolta channel.
In Asia, Hanwha TotalEnergies Petrochemical's sales offices are located in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Hong Kong, Tokyo, and Nagoya.
In 2011, although the jury's scores were not televised, the scores previously given by the fans on the pageant's website were broadcast, even though these had no impact on the final result or the candidates' ranking.
The A-Class production at the plant ceased in 2020 to focus on the Mercedes-Benz GLB, caused by the market demand shifting from sedans towards SUVs.
On 15 April 2012, all Telefónica services were rebranded again to Vivo, using the same strategy of unifying all its services in a unique brand, like Movistar (Hispanic America and Spain) and O2 (rest of Europe).
He enlisted in the United States Navy in 1942 during his freshman year at Phillipsburg High School and was initially assigned to duty as a deep sea diver.
As a result of its considerable size relative to the world copper market, developments at Escondida can have dramatic effects on the world copper price as was shown by its gyrations during the strike in August 2006.
References External links Media related to CNN Chile at Wikimedia Commons Official website (in Spanish)
BAG was renamed as the Global Auto Group, and a new BMW and MINI assembly, import and distribution agreement was signed with BMW Group in November 2022.
Stewart & Stevenson Power Products Wajax Power Systems Collicutt Energy Services Antilles Power Depot Curtis Power Solutions MTU Onsite Energy Projects Oceanic Time Warner Cable Hawaii - Oceanic Time Warner currently uses MTU Onsite energy for its backup power and power generation systems.
The software developed by GuideWorks is widely deployed in Comcast digital cable systems throughout the USA, and delivers both Video On Demand and Digital Video Recorder features to consumers.
On June 20, 2018, Recode reported that AT&T was close to buying out Chernin's stake in Otter Media, on the heel of its acquisition of Time Warner (whose digital media holdings included Machinima).
Then, in mid-2005, MovieTickets.com established a ticket distribution relationship with the consignment ticket reseller PrintTixUSA, adding 20 movie exhibition companies to its ranks and boosting the total number of screens serviced nationwide to more than 10,000.
cable channel Food Network, in a joint venture between Corus, Alliance Atlantis, and Food Network U.S.
The corporation currently manages the landing points in Puerto Rico of the undersea cable systems of AMERICAS-I, AMERICAS-II, ANTILLAS I, and ARCOS-1.
Rodae (officially RODAE Automobile Craiova S.A., and later Daewoo Automobile Romania S.A.) was a joint venture between S.C.
At the time of its establishment, the plant was targeted to have an initial annual production capacity of more than 230,000 vehicles and was to create about 3,600 direct jobs by 2020.
History Lactalis Nestlé Produits Frais was formed in 2006 through the incorporation of Nestlé Produits Frais activities in Europe into the Lactalis Group through a majority-owned joint venture by Lactalis.
In 2007, Snecma and NPO Saturn built an open-air test cell in Poluevo, near Rybinsk, to handle certification tests for the SaM146.
The History Channel expanded in 1998 into tours of US landmarks with Mayflower Tours having an affiliated website (historytravel.com), History Channel Traveler, and a planned quarterly magazine.
It was created in January 1998 as a joint venture of Sogecable (Prisa) and Warner Bros., bringing the demise of Sogepaq Distribución (a previous joint venture of Prisa and Polygram) and Warner Española (the former Spanish subsidiary of Warner Bros.).
Methodological selection Over the time, Miss Universe has established different evaluation processes.
On March 4, 2019, following the reconstruction of WarnerMedia's businesses, Otter Media became part of Warner Bros.
After the breakdown of the BT/MCI relationship, it became a joint venture between BT and AT&T in 1999.
BAG had assembly and distribution partnerships with other manufacturers including Mahindra & Mahindra, Brilliance, Jinbei, and Great Wall.
Each satellites uses an X-band system for the downlink of acquired images and systems telemetry at data rates of 120 Mbit/s.
During this period, the name i-Guide became associated with the products, which gained a reputation for strong promotion of advertising similar to the ads that appear on web pages today.
November 1999 The French clutch company Valeo buys shares in Unisia JECS clutch division to gain entry to the Japanese market.
On May 6, 2011, OWN's CEO Christina Norman was removed, and replaced by Discovery executive Peter Liguori as an interim CEO.
Aside from five Houston Metro examples fitted in a 61-seat suburban configuration, all versions were fitted with transit-style seats.
SJI utilizes the new partnership taking advantage of LTL's facilities based at Frankfurt International Airport.
Staff) Bubuki Buranki (2016) Bubuki Buranki 2: The Gentle Giants of the Galaxy (2016) ID-0 (2017) BanG Dream!
(2023) Ishura (2024–2025; CG; animation production by Passione) Ave Mujica - The Die is Cast - (2025) Guilty Gear Strive: Dual Rulers (2025) Rooster Fighter (2026) BanG Dream!
GuideWorks, LLC is the joint venture of Comcast and Gemstar-TV Guide International that was formed in April 2004 for the purpose of creating navigation software (also known as Interactive Program Guides) for digital cable television.
It was founded in November 1999 in a small provisional assembling plant near to the current BAG plant.
Global Infrastructure Partners, LLC (GIP) is an American infrastructure investment fund making equity and selected debt investments across markets worldwide.
On November 1, 2016, BAMTech announced a partnership with Discovery Communications to form a European joint venture known as BAMTech Europe.
JECS Corporation (formerly Japan Electrical Control Systems Co Ltd) is an automotive components company headquartered in Isesaki, Gunma, Japan and a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi.
Rivals.com (stylized as rivals) is a network of websites that focus mainly on college football and basketball recruiting in the United States.
Although Volvo technologies were very advanced, the price was too high for many Chinese cities, at ¥800000.
Cable News Network Chile (known as CNN Chile and abbreviated as CNN CL) is a Chilean pay television news channel and news website launched on 4 December 2008.
The frequent failures of JLVs have led to criticism of the Singapore government's conceptualisation and implementation of the JLV.
Sunwin developed maintenance contracts along with their buses, allowing the new products to average an in-service rate of 98% by streamlining and removing the previously convoluted maintenance procedures.
The article also commented on the declining popularity of the Food Network whose daily ratings were reported had fallen "to an average of 544,000 people from 580,000 a year [earlier]".
During the 1980s and 1990s, rock and pop music videos broadcast on television were being defined by MTV.
When Fox Kids was renamed Jetix on 1 August 2004, Sky hadn't entered an agreement with Disney to carry Disney Channel.
Disputes Starting in July 2025 the project has been affected by a legal dispute in Chilean courts between ENAMI and Eramet over access rights in the project area.
On April 1, 2016, Shaw Media was subsumed into Corus as part of a corporate reorganization, which reunited Food Network with the active Corus channels.
Ellation will now house Rooster Teeth, Crunchyroll, and VRV, while Machinima became a unit of Fullscreen.
The company is responsible for marketing, providing after-sales support and services as well as training, design, and development input for the Sukhoi Superjet 100 and its business variant Sukhoi Business Jet (SBJ).
Content for the network was originally purchased from overseas markets and included shows such as Meat and Greet and Singapore Flavours from Mediacorp.
The two-hour concert featured performances by Eric Church, Jamie Foxx, Sia, Rhiannon Giddens, Tori Kelly, John Legend, Miguel, Pink, Jill Scott, Ed Sheeran, Bruce Springsteen, Sting, Pharrell Williams, and Zac Brown Band.
It is the only open-air test facility for this type of engine in Europe and it also provides test services for other engines.
Logo TriStar's logo features the winged horse Pegasus (either stationary or flying across the screen).
Osborne and Heather Killen conducted and presented the industry's first European consumer research on Internet Users that ultimately established the commercial potential of Online Advertising in Europe.
With the call sign ISF 63JW, operated by a crew of nine, and carrying 189 passengers, it departed at 12:00 UTC for an estimated flight duration of eight hours twenty minutes.
Final telecast Beginning in 1978, the scores issued by the selection committee were broadcast live for the first time by the CBS television network.
Its principal products are electronic control units, software, semiconductors, mechatronics, resin molding, inspection technology and material analysis.
The deal facilitated the entry of Kokuyo products, mainly paper and office stationery into the Indian market, while Camlin aimed to increase its exports to other countries.
The concession signed in Baghdad on March 14, 1925 (full text:) covered the provinces of Mosul (35,130 square miles) and Baghdad (54,540), but excluded the Basra province (53,580) and ran for 75 years.
Since then, however, MovieTickets.com had lost ground, losing sole rights to the AMC chain and Moviefone's telephone arm to rival Fandango.
Osborne founded Innovater BV that in 2003 led the launch of WiFi across Europe on behalf of the Industry Association Wi-Fi Alliance of Redwood, CA.
Zotye started building the Fiat Multipla as the Zotye Mutiplan in 2009 and an updated version of the Palio/Siena as the Zotye Z200 in 2011.
BAG was known for assembling complete knockdown kits (CKD) of a selection of BMW vehicles for the local market in its assembly plant in 6th of October City, Giza from 2004, in addition to importing other fully built BMW models as well as MINI vehicles.
It also reached an agreement with Nexstar Media Group to begin carrying WGN America in January 2021.
Repeated purges of the CPK generated growing discontent; by 1978, Cambodian soldiers were mounting a rebellion in the east.
Briefly these were: belief in a messianic prophecy, use of psychedelic drugs as sacrament, a perception of reality as multi-layered and semi-subjective, and adherence to the principles of at least one of the world's major religions.
Almost all animals and plants synthesize their own vitamin C, but humans cannot because the gene for this enzyme is defective (Pseudogene ΨGULO).
New York Feigenbaum immigrated to New York in 1891 to work on New York's first Yiddish-language socialist weekly,Di Arbeter Tsaytung (The Workman's Paper) along with the daily Dos Abend Blatt (The Evening Paper) as an associate-editor.
Proponents of the New Atheist movement have experienced some controversy and criticisms from academics and other atheists.
They say that the one god regarded as male, opposes everything related to change, sensuality, nature, feeling, and femininity.
Afghanistan, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Turkmenistan and the United Arab Emirates condemned the attack.
Similarly, the Lombard code of 643 states: Let nobody presume to kill a foreign serving maid or female slave as a witch, for it is not possible, nor ought to be believed by Christian minds.
He held visiting positions on the faculties of the University of Heidelberg in Germany and Oxford University (twice) and was a visiting researcher at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in England, the National Nuclear Physics Laboratory in Frascati, Italy, and the University of Florence in Italy.
Pascal is sceptical of cosmological arguments for God's existence and says that when religious people present such arguments they give atheists "ground for believing that the proofs of our religion are very weak".
There remains also a possibility that backpacks were hidden inside the target restaurants before detonation.
He tells the story of the trial as a story about people: the lawyers, the defendants, the townspeople, the media.
Another explicit lyric version was released in the United States with a bonus track, and another censored version was released with two bonus tracks.
Azahari was killed in a police raid on 9 November 2005 at Batu, East Java, while Noordin "has been killed after a lengthy and violent siege, Indonesia's police chief said" by "heavily armed counter-terrorism police" on 17 September 2009 at Surakarta, Central Java.
Owing to the incident at his house door, David concludes that the zombies are vulnerable to things which are taboo to Mormons, including caffeine.
Associations with violence Ancient monotheism is described as the instigator of violence in its early days because it inspired the Israelites to wage war upon the Canaanites who believed in multiple gods.
The color is a reference to the red pill, which symbolizes acceptance of and the ability to see truth, as established early in the first Matrix film.
He was, during that time, the primary public speaker and debater for the Southern California branch of the California Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League.
Mahdists in Sudan During the 1870s, European initiatives against the slave trade caused an economic crisis in northern Sudan, precipitating the rise of Mahdist forces.
Each new conviction reinforced the beliefs in the methods (torture and pointed interrogation) being used to solicit confessions and in the list of accusations to which the accused confessed.
Klassen wrote, "Furthermore, in looking up the word in Webster's dictionary I found the term 'nigger' very descriptive: 'a vulgar, offensive term of hostility and contempt for the black man'.
Maries, Idaho, Wotansvolk rapidly evolved into "a dynamic propaganda center that spread its message throughout the United States and abroad".
Because her due date is after graduation, she opts to hide the pregnancy from her classmates and her mother, Lillian, who is covertly dating the school's principal, Pastor Skip.
According to a Süddeutsche Zeitung interview in April 2017, she frequently receives death threats from conservative Muslims, and after she was pregnant, the Muslim threats also included beating her to cause a miscarriage.
Idle, in his role as a "greasy" compère, reacts with horror and attempts to have Harrison removed from the studio.
Senator Hanson, I am not going to pretend to ignore the stunt that you have tried to pull today by arriving in the Chamber dressed in a burka when we all know that you are not an adherent of the Islamic faith.
In accordance with most PBS member stations' non-commercial educational licenses, the special was presented on PBS without commercial interruption, with an underwriting message from Apple being the only advertising.
German band Die Ärzte, who supported Kiss in 1996, recorded a German version of the song in 1994 for the tribute album Kiss My Ass: Classic Kiss Regrooved.
New Atheism, sometimes referred to as scientific atheism, is a 21st-century movement attributed to some atheist academics, writers, scientists, and philosophers opposed to superstition, religion, and irrationalism.
New Consensus In 1988, Nugent co-founded the New Consensus peace group with his partner Anne Holliday and Michael Fitzpatrick.
His final offer of 40 percent of "My Sweet Lord"'s US composer's and publisher's royalties, along with a stipulation that he retain copyright for his song, was viewed as a "good one" by Bright's legal representation, yet the offer was rejected.
Sortilege Sortilege, or practice of casting lots and interpreting the results produced by chance (qurʿa), was used both to predict the future, and "as a means of determining a course of action or deciding between courses of action".
The Index Librorum Prohibitorum forbade its printing or reading, as it conflicts with the orthodoxy of the Catholic Church.
One afternoon, while swimming in his pool, Mary's boyfriend Dean Withers confesses to her that he suspects he is gay.
Two variations were released in the United States with thirteen tracks, one version with explicit lyrics and the other with censored lyrics.
She was chair of the Junge Union, the youth organization of the CDU (Conservative Party), in Wilnsdorf in Central Germany.
It's amazing that, in 1992, one of the most powerful men in the world can reduce political rhetoric to that level." The song features the guitar playing of Jeff Beck.
It defends free thought and free expression in general, and also contains Voltaire's thoughts on the ongoing campaign for democracy in Geneva, where he supported greater power for the citizens.
At 500 pages this excellent anthology is only just portable, but it is the perfect Christmas stocking-filler for the atheist in your life.
Pierce describes it as a "romantic suspense novel" that is "at least a borderline case" of science fiction, specifically American libertarian science fiction based on its political themes.
Sipus walked out of the interview, accusing Flemming of misrepresenting himself and his reasons for the interview.
The video then cuts back and forth throughout human history, depicting man's primitive, violent nature that has remained essentially unchanged over the centuries.
Cain witnesses God's foiling the erection of the Tower of Babylon, followed by God sending a storm to utterly demolish the unfinished Tower.
The American Civil Liberties Union argues that government-funded displays of Christmas imagery and traditions violate the U.S.
Kowalewicz recounting the song's backstory with MuchMusic's Sarah Taylor, It's from a story I read about Boston priest, John Geoghan who had been arrested for child abuse and the church kept moving him from parish to parish.
The song has also appeared on several other ELP and Christmas compilation albums including a 1995 EP titled I Believe in Father Christmas, which includes Lake's original single as well as the Works Volume II version.
It was the first solo single by a Beatle to reach the top, and the biggest seller by any of the four throughout the 1970s.
They were initiatory secret societies inspired by Murray's 'witch cult' theory and historical paganism.
See also List of submissions to the 57th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film List of Argentine submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film References External links Camila at IMDb
Telegram & Gazette's Craig Semon said it is a lament on "his sorrowful existence and how his life has been plagued with nothing but heartache".
In particular, he recognised that certain patterns of embryological development could lead to the success of a related group of species in filling varied ecological niches, though he emphasised that this should not be confused with group selection.
It was likely differentiated from measles and other similar diseases by authors in late antiquity writing in Medieval Greek and Syriac, whose works were known to Thabit and al-Razi.
In his book Rush, Rock Music and the Middle Class: Dreaming in Middletown, Chris McDonald describes Lifeson's play as a "searing, rapid-fire" guitar solo.
In a mixed review, academic Peter Dendle wrote that "not every gag in the horror-comedy hits home, but the boldness of the movie's premise goes a long way." Awards The film won the audience award at Seattle's True Independent Film Festival.
Katha Sagar featured adaptations of stories by international authors including Katherine Mansfield, Leo Tolstoy, O.
Two of Brand's friends worked as production assistants while Gordon Gronbach, a freelance videographer, shot the video.
"What God Wants, Part I" is the first song in a series of songs written and released by former Pink Floyd bassist, Roger Waters on his third solo studio album, Amused to Death (1992).
One high-profile protest involved invading the stage of Heidi Klum's television casting show Germany's Next Topmodel during the finale of cycle 8 sporting the slogan "Heidi horror picture show" as a critique of the beauty ideal propagated by the fashion industry.
"The Marquis de Fumerol" ( French: "Le Marquis de Fumerol") is a short story by French author Guy de Maupassant, first published in the newspaper Gil Blas on January 17, 1887.
Meanwhile, Venia’s friend with the impaired walk seeks to deepen his relationship with Venia by asking Venia to repeat the healing exercise from the other day, and when that fails, they go down to the shore of a local lake, where he kisses Venia on the mouth to express his sexual attraction to him.
"Freewill" is the second track on the 1980 album Permanent Waves by Canadian progressive rock band Rush.
Venia turns to reading the Bible selectively and intensely in seeking guidance and solace in response to his changed family circumstances.
Based on a December 16, 2023 survey conducted by Nikkei Entertainment, the combined fanbase of the Shin Megami Tensei and Persona series within Japan has an average age of 32 years, and a male-to-female ratio that skews 40:60.
In a 2001 review, Greg Kot of the Chicago Tribune said that "My Sweet Lord" serves as the entrance to Spector's "cathedral of sound" on All Things Must Pass, adding that although Harrison lost the lawsuit, the song's "towering majesty ...
Returning to the United States Dawkins visits the Hell-House Outreach Programme, an organisation that uses hell for "moral policing", producing videos aimed at twelve-year-olds.
"What God Wants" is separated into three parts, similar to Pink Floyd's earlier "Another Brick in the Wall".
He has addressed several United Nations human rights reviews in Geneva, Switzerland, and OSCE Human Dimension Implementation Meetings in Warsaw, Poland.
The mother of the family, Brandla, born 20 February 1903 in Brawa, was arrested for being Jewish, held at Drancy and then deported by the convoy 11 of 27 July 1942 to Auschwitz.
The album appeared on the Billboard 200, remained there for thirteen weeks and peaked at 28 on December 1, 2001.
With the assistance of the leader of his church, Reverend David "Dave" Hill, Josh prepares for the assignment.
Harrison's posthumous compilation Early Takes: Volume 1 (2012) includes a demo version of the song, recorded early in the 1970 sessions for All Things Must Pass.
Sergeant wrote that it became scarce even in libraries, and readers in the 1950s were likely to have to borrow it from the chief librarian and be watched while reading it.
Accordingly, when the doctors of the Church perceived that the Christians had a leaning to this festival, they took counsel and resolved that the true Nativity should be solemnised on that day.
It was released as a single in March 1995 and is also available on the band's live albums Hellalive and Machine Fucking Head Live.
Vedder had recorded episodes of the series off HBO onto a VHS, and used the Avid video editing software to edit in the music.
After some coaxing, she and Venia exchange several romantic kisses in the empty classroom, after which Venia guiltily recoils.
In 1986, the novel won the Locus Award for Best First Novel, and placed #15 in the poll for the Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel.
Spinoza is the greatest of modern philosophers, because he is the first philosopher who deals with the soul and the body as one, not as two separate things.
To burn a book of argument is to say: 'We do not have enough wit to reply to it.'" He comments that England, despite being a monarchy, has a more enlightened population than other countries because the right to publish is protected by law.
Career Zuckerman is a professor of sociology and secular studies at Pitzer College in Claremont, California.
Other critics have associated monotheism with intolerance, patriarchal structures, moral rigidity, and violence.
Soltau | 31 original drawings and newly colored etchings with excerpts from the English translation of the burlesque poem by Soltau." VDG Weimar, Weimar 2016.
After doing the same to the other Whos' houses, the Grinch takes his sleigh to the peak of Mount Crumpit and prepares to dump all of the stolen items into an abyss.
Biblical studies Source criticism, as the term is used in biblical criticism, refers to the attempt to establish the sources used by the author and/or redactor of the final text.
Thus she had responsibilities at the National Office of the Socialist Party, responsible for the Socialist Women, was a dignitary of the Droit Humain, a mixed Masonic lodge.
See also Women's rights in Ukraine Nudity and protest Notes References External links Anna Hutsol - YouTube Personal blog, Echo of Moscow (in Russian).
The song was used in the episode "Salvage" on the sixth season of television series Sons of Anarchy.
government and the Western world is dominated by "traitors and Jews working towards the establishment of a New World Order".
They regularly extorted money and kidnapped people, both the religious and laity, from whom they would demand ransoms; Grandisson suggests they robbed from each other's houses when the opportunity presented itself.
Peart stated that the two are the same, with the band taking "great care to make the lyric sheets accurate", but that fans sometime mis-hear the lyrics and believe the printed lyrics are incorrect.
Once on board the Ark, Cain proceeds to systematically kill Noah's sons, their wives and Noah's wife (after first having had sex with all the women).
The song lyrics are about, in part, the psychedelic experience as brought on by drugs including marijuana, LSD, psilocybin and DMT.
This edition of the magazine is notable in that it features no nudity and that it is the first Playboy to be published in a Muslim-majority country since a Turkish edition that was discontinued in the mid-1990s.
שטיינער וואס פאלען פון הימעל : א פאפולערע ערקלעהרונג וועגען מעטעאריטען, שטערנשנופפען און קאמעטען [Stones that descend from Heaven: A popular exploration of meteorites, strollers and comets].
"Turtles All the Way Down" is a song written and recorded by American country music artist Sturgill Simpson.
Personal life Edwin Kagin was born in Greenville, South Carolina, to a Presbyterian minister father who had been born in Kentucky and a Daughters of the American Revolution mother who had been born in South Carolina.
She wanted to write a 12-part monthly series on famous women in American, including Eddy, and had gone to Eddy's home to ask for an interview but was denied.
Natural selection can leave animals behaving in detrimental ways when they encounter a supernormal stimulus - like a moth flying into a flame.
Despite awareness of his behaviour, the Boston archdiocese had enabled the continued abuse through negligence.
In Islamic literature there are detailed treatises that include "entire exorcism rites and purification rituals for the destruction of amulets and other magical items" to neutralize black magic.
In mycology, the term heteroecious has also been used for parasitic fungi with multiple hosts, and the terms can be used synonymously.
The first ancestral hyenas were likely similar to the modern African civet; one of the earliest hyena species described, Plioviverrops, was a lithe, civet-like animal that inhabited Eurasia 20–22 million years ago, and is identifiable as a hyaenid by the structure of the middle ear and dentition.
Argus monitors will often "tripod", raising up on their hind legs and supporting themselves with their tail.
Weaknesses Closed ecological systems often remain unstable due to low biodiversity, as they contain far less species than natural ecosystems.
Contrasting assumptions about size asymmetry characterise the two leading and competing theories in plant ecology, the R* theory and the CSR theory.
Community protocols are gaining recognition in international negotiations on access and benefit-sharing of genetic resources and reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD), endogenous development practice, and traditional health care.
Vladimir Pešić (born 1973) is a scientist from Montenegro, and a biologist who is an expert on Hydrachnidiae, the water mites.
Barnosky acknowledges in the 2001 paper that the Court Jester hypothesis is not necessarily inconsistent with the Red Queen hypothesis: "Indeed, as Ned Johnson remarked (after listening to a lecture expressing these ideas), Maybe it is time for the Court Jester to marry the Red Queen.
As a self-maintaining organism, Earth would have an immune system of some sort in order to maintain its health.
Regions Coniferous temperate evergreen forests are found largely in the temperate mid-latitudes of Siberia, Canada, Australia, Africa, Scandinavia, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Amazon and Orinoco basins of South America, the Himalayas and Western Ghats of India and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.
The Q10 coefficient represents the degree of temperature dependence a muscle exhibits as measured by contraction rates.
The same can be said for researchers in a number of fields who contributed to ecological thought well into the 1940s without avowedly being ecologists.
CSBI is run by its member associations and volunteers from member companies and multilateral financing institutions, with the support of a part-time coordinator.
Subsequent multigene analysis using nuclear DNA by Jønsson and colleagues in 2012 clarified that the forest and little raven are each other's closest relative.
Reintroduction efforts, also referred to as translocation, are complex and a common source of complication is how animals behave upon release.
Studies and research have linked Calliphora and Lucilia to vectors of causal agents of bacterial infections.
The easily detected warning is a primary defence mechanism, and the non-visible defences are secondary.
Anoxygenic phototrophy and oxygenic photosynthesis both require electron donors, with all known forms of anoxygenic phototrophy relying on reaction center electron acceptors with reduction potentials around 250-500 mV.
“...plane identification—the aircraft spotting technique—was based on Roger’s bird identification method-the Peterson system.”.
In such soils which have a high vegetation content water is able to travel along the 'pipes', allowing water to travel faster than throughflow.
The study concluded: Data on millions of outpatient visits of older Americans linked to data on daily rainfall showed no relation between rainfall and outpatient visits for joint or back pain...
Wild dogs are often heard howling during the breeding season which, for pure dingoes, occurs once a year.
By the 1980s, the peak population had reached an estimated 60–70 million, but is now down to an estimated 30 million due to control measures.
The cycle of the dome can be explained as four wind forcing stages: coastal shoaling of the thermocline off the Gulf of Papagayo in February–April, separation from the coast during May–June, countercurrent thermocline ridging during July–November and deepening during December–January.
Awards In 2003, she was one of 33 Laureates of the Women's World Summit Foundation Prize for Women's Creativity in Rural Life.
For plants, minimizing adaptation to captivity is usually achieved by sourcing plant material from a seed bank, where individuals are preserved as wild-collected seeds, and have not had the chance to adapt to conditions in captivity.
He alongside Michael Lynch, introduced regression estimators for joint estimation of two-gene and four-gene coefficients of relationship using codominant molecular markers in randomly mating populations.
Fragmented habitats can be caused by geological or human activity, and particularly affect larger animals that roam and hunt across large territories, such as apex predators.
For many harvesting seasons, indigenous people have shifted their activity months earlier due to impacts from climate change, adaptations that becomes more important in the face of a rapidly changing climate.
Males appear to lack these glands, but those associated with its head are morphologically similar to those found in workers, but these glands may act differently.
Biogeography The environment in tropical deserts is harsh as well as barren; only certain plants and animals with special behavioral and physical mechanisms can live there.
The lack of these elements will cause a growth limitation factor in the said microsite and also survival issues.
These behaviors are phenotypic outcomes of god concepts that are ultimately subject to natural selection.
Amphotropic Pathogen Examples Amphotropic Murine Leukemia Virus Coxiella burnetii Chlamydia See also Tropism, a list of tropisms Ecotropism, indicating a narrow host range References == External links ==
Other issues raised include the defining of conservation strictly in terms of location, and the naming of single species as important to the environment rather than the interconnectivity between species and doesn't prioritize areas that are dense in biological diversity.
It has become the near-universally accepted standard, first in the United States and Europe and then around the world.
The two species can be distinguished from each other through morphological examinations of the head, thorax, and postpetiole.
In 2022, Urban Sky was awarded a National Science Foundation grant to develop balloon placement technologies.
See also Biome Line notes References Kuchler, A(ugust) William [Wilhelm] (Germany-United States 1907-1999) Ann Watkins, Terrestrial vegetation of the U.S.
The actual procedures of this project involve inexpensive collection equipment (for easy universal participation).
It is obvious now from the models, the data, and the theory that there is no one overarching effect of diversity on productivity.
Additionally, the environmental toll that may arise from the introduction of a new species may be so disruptive that the ecosystem is no longer able to sustain certain populations.
The court jester hypothesis is used in reference to the idea that abiotic forces (including climate), rather than biotic competition between species, function as a major driving force behind the processes in evolution which produce speciation.
Drift load increases more rapidly in small populations, so factors that tend to maintain large populations such as high reproductive rates and low levels of biotic and abiotic stress will reduce the incidence of drift load.
Other research, unconcerned with the effects of diversity, has demonstrated strong top-down forcing of ecosystems (see keystone species).
Nature Ecology & Evolution is an online-only monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Nature Portfolio covering all aspects of research on ecology and evolutionary biology.
Nurse logs may therefore provide some measure of protection from these pathogens, thus promoting greater seedling survivorship.
Their performance in filtration is established and their application as aquacultural feed is being researched.
The isolation of South America had an abrupt end some few million years ago when the Isthmus of Panama was formed, allowing small scale migration of animals that would result in the Great American Interchange which caused many marsupials such as Thylacosmilus to go extinct.
SAD is one of the most basic measurements in ecology and is used very often, therefore many different methods of measurement and analysis have developed.
Nicrophorini breed on small animal carrion and will bury themselves and their food to rear their offspring in a bi-parental manner.
As of 2014, she is a Canada Research Chair in Protist Ecology at the University of British Columbia.
The transition from introduction, to establishment and to invasion has been described in the context of plants.
Other evergreen forests (or tropical rainforests) are usually found in areas receiving more than 234 cm (92 in) of rainfall and having a monthly mean temperature of 20 °C (68 °F) or higher in the coldest months.
If a local stock or population becomes extinct, the species as a whole has not become extinct, but extirpated from that local area.
Individual ants within the colony network are likely to have many connections with one another – making the network denser and non-hierarchical.
Lee or Derek Edward Lee) is an American ecologist and wildlife biologist specializing in population biology and conservation biology.
Most electrical grids were constructed for non-intermittent energy sources such as coal-fired power plants.
The holotype of this subspecies was obtained near Cue, Western Australia, at the midwest of the continent, and the population is endemic to the north and west of that state.
The Paleotropical kingdom is divided into three subkingdoms, which are each subdivided into floristic regions.
Beavers too have been called keystone, not for eating other species but for modifying the environment in ways that affected other species.
For example, at the Aamjiwnaang community of Anishnaabe First Nations people in Sarnia, Ontario, Canada, residents suffer from a "noticeable decrease in male birth ratio ..., which residents attribute to their proximity to petrochemical plants".
A dense heterarchy is a hierarchical organization in social insect colonies in which the higher levels affect the lower levels and lower levels eventually influence the higher levels.
La visión sistémica del ambiente construido: una metodología transdisciplinar para la ecología humana y el aprendizaje interdisciplinar del diseño de intervención del hábitat.
The northern riverine forest is a type of forest ecology most dominant along waterways in the northeastern and north-central United States and bordering areas of Canada.
Microballoon technology Urban Sky's remote-sensing balloons operate in the stratosphere at an altitude of approximately 20km (around 65,000 feet), and are roughly the size of a car at launch, with a payload attached beneath the balloon.
Three Creeks Confluence Red Butte, Emigration, and Parleys Creeks flow into the Jordan River at 1300 South and 900 West in Salt Lake City, UT.
However, precisely because of the pointed lack of concretion in the original definition, it has been used with different connotations.
In specific rainfall zones, the application of nitrogen, sulfur, and phosphorus fertilizers may also contribute to increased production.
In contrast, in low-temperature surface environments, iron oxides have a limited impact on the lithium cycle.
e.g., sharks, show less thermal dependence at lower temperatures than endothermic species See also Arrhenius equation Arrhenius plot Isotonic (exercise physiology) Isometric exercise Skeletal striated muscle Tetanic contraction == References ==
Many Scientist will analyze many characteristics of the species populations to which to estimate among which species is the most vulnerable to extinction and therefore need the most attention.
Introduction or removal of a keystone predator, or changes in its population density, can have drastic cascading effects on the equilibrium of many other populations in the ecosystem.
Relative species abundance is calculated by dividing the number of species from one group by the total number of species from all groups.
If the species was already unpalatable, predators might learn to avoid the cluster, protecting gregarious individuals with the new aposematic trait.
The study found that bacteria use both autochthonous (from primary production of lake) and allochthonous (from terrestrial watershed) carbon.
For Aileen Hoath, the volume sits within the broader discourse on third-wave conservation, identifying practical solutions at the interface between conservation spatialities and smallholder agriculture.
Some species secrete a chemical from a rectal gland that consists of aliphatic acids and terpene alcohols.
A megadiverse country is one of a group of nations that house the majority of Earth's species and high numbers of endemic species.
Thease such analysis take account of variables such as population size, geographic range, avability in the habitat and the most unique of all the biological traits of a species.
Poisonous plants Several poisonous plants are present in annual grasslands, although livestock losses are rare.
In Northwest Indiana, TWI helped organize a growing partnership which is restoring wetlands hydrology and native vegetation across a 2,000-acre corridor of the Little Calumet River which was cleared and leveed off for flood control.
Species There are three extant species of raccoon: Some raccoons once considered as separate species are now thought to be the same as or subspecies of the common raccoon, including the Barbados raccoon (P.
A class of alternative ideas, here termed Court Jester hypotheses, share the basic tenet that changes in the physical environment rather than biotic interactions themselves are the initiators of major changes in organisms and ecosystems.
This article is intended to give a brief review of the history of anthropogenic N inputs, reported impacts of nitrogen inputs on selected terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, and global players in N2O emissions.
Ecosystem health masquerades as an operational goal because environmental managers "may be reluctant to define their goals clearly." It is a vague concept.
Direct involvement in gathering, fashioning products from, and using local plants and animals created a scheme in which the biological world and the cultural world were tightly intertwined.
Biodiversidad, taxonomía y biogeografía de artrópodos de México: hacia una síntesis de su conocimiento, vol.
Conservation-reliant species are animal or plant species that require continuing species-specific wildlife management intervention such as predator control, habitat management and parasite control to survive, even when a self-sustainable recovery in population is achieved.
Early collections and descriptions of the region's species have historically been uncertain, leading the ICZN to issue an opinion that related to this taxon.
These warrens also possibly accommodate communal nesting, where different females each dig their own egg burrows within the same warren.
For example, analyzing mobility patterns can identify areas that may lend themselves well to building parks and green spaces.
Nevertheless, as exploitation is not always harmful for the plant, the relationship may be able to endure some cheating.
Species naturally become extinct from islands over time; this can be either local extinction if the species also occurs elsewhere, or in cases of island endemism, outright extinction.
Small animals such as various squirrels often perch or roost on nurse logs, adding to the litter by food debris and scat.
Selaginella rupestris, the northern selaginella sometimes locally known as ledge spike-moss or rock spike-moss, is a species of spike-moss occurring in dry rocky places in eastern North America, including one locality in Greenland.
Litter size varies considerably by region; generally, white morph foxes, who tend to live inland, mainly prey on lemmings.
Hence, the taxonomic work fundamental to plant research can be tracked back to both the holding institution and to the taxonomist, linking institution, taxonomist, and the science generated.
184 case studies were reported on a range of species which included invertebrates, fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals, and plants.
Birds between one and two years old closely resemble adults but retain juvenile feathers on wings and tail and have smaller bills.
In the case of 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ..., his ideas are similar to what is now known as Abel summation: ...
Cheryl gives them a list of 10 possible dates: May 15, May 16, May 19 June 17, June 18 July 14, July 16 August 14, August 15, August 17 Cheryl then tells Albert and Bernard separately the month and the day of her birthday respectively.
The Poincaré–Birkhoff–Witt theorem states that every Lie algebra embeds into the commutator Lie algebra of its universal enveloping algebra.
In the RLWE context the coefficients of the polynomials and all operations involving those coefficients will be done in a finite field, typically the field Z / q Z = F q {\textstyle \mathbf {Z} /q\mathbf {Z} =\mathbf {F} _{q}} for a prime integer q {\textstyle q} .
If all triangular faces of a polyhedron are vertex-disjoint, there exists an edge with smaller total degree, at most eight.
Therefore, any such body for which the lattice packing constant was previously known, such as any ellipse, consequently has a known packing constant.
Mitchell's embedding theorem for abelian categories realises every small abelian category as a full (and exactly embedded) subcategory of a category of modules over some ring.
Third question: densest sphere packing The third question in Hilbert's problem asks for the densest sphere packing or packing of other specified shapes.
Thirty-six officers problem – Arrange six regiments consisting of six officers each of different ranks in a 6 × 6 square so that no rank or regiment is repeated in any row or column.
The motivation is the interest in the target of the assembly maps; this may be, for instance, the algebraic K-theory of a group ring K n ( R G ) {\displaystyle K_{n}(RG)} or the L-theory of a group ring L n ( R G ) , {\displaystyle L_{n}(RG),} where G is some group.
This illustrates the structures that are often studied in additive combinatorics: the combinatorial structure of A + B as compared to the algebraic structure of arithmetic progressions.
1961 (1961): Graham Higman characterises the subgroups of finitely presented groups with Higman's embedding theorem, connecting recursion theory with group theory in an unexpected way and giving a very different proof of the unsolvability of the word problem.
{\displaystyle \eta ={\frac {\sum _{i=1}^{n}\mu (K_{i})}{\mu (X)}}.} In Euclidean space If the space being packed is infinite in measure, such as Euclidean space, it is customary to define the density as the limit of densities exhibited in balls of larger and larger radii.
Six triangles meet at each additional vertex introduced by this refolding, so they have zero angular defect and remain locally Euclidean.
When θ increases from 0 to π radians, ϕ decreases from the initial value π radians to zero and s increases from the initial value R − r to the value R + r.
It states that if a group G has cohomological dimension 2, then it has a 2-dimensional Eilenberg–MacLane space K ( G , 1 ) {\displaystyle K(G,1)} .
Jiménez López, Víctor (1999), "An elementary solution to the mountain climbers' problem", Aequationes Mathematicae, 57 (1): 45–49, doi:10.1007/s000100050069, MR 1675749, S2CID 121912365.
As each edge has a weight of one, the weight of the resulting cycle cover is equal to that of the original cycle cover.
In mathematics, a representation theorem is a theorem that states that every abstract structure with certain properties is isomorphic to another (abstract or concrete) structure.
Shelah later showed that the Whitehead problem remains undecidable even if one assumes the continuum hypothesis.
If f {\displaystyle f} is strictly quasiconcave in x {\displaystyle x} for each θ {\displaystyle \theta } and C {\displaystyle C} is convex-valued, then C ∗ {\displaystyle C^{*}} is single-valued, and thus is a continuous function rather than a correspondence.
Thus, almost all models are grey box models as opposed to black box where no model form is assumed or white box models that are purely theoretical.
The topological Vaught conjecture is more general than the original Vaught conjecture: Given a countable language we can form the space of all structures on the natural numbers for that language.
(1971), "Spherical transforms of semisimple Lie groups", Annals of Mathematics, Second Series, 94 (2): 246–303, doi:10.2307/1970861, JSTOR 1970861, MR 0289725.
In the case where w = ℓ = γ lg ⁡ n {\displaystyle w=\ell =\gamma \lg n} for γ > 1 {\displaystyle \gamma >1} and S = n ⋅ lg O ( 1 ) ⁡ n {\displaystyle S=n\cdot \lg ^{O(1)}n} , the optimal search time is Θ ( lg ⁡ ℓ ) {\displaystyle \Theta (\lg \ell )} and the van Emde Boas tree achieves this bound.
This means that given the input to the problem there exists a unique solution, which depends continuously on the input.
It is also known that a group of cohomological dimension 2 has a 3-dimensional Eilenberg−MacLane space.
That is, assuming # p − 1 ( b ) = 1 {\displaystyle \#p^{-1}(b)=1} for every b < a {\displaystyle b<a} , we show # p − 1 ( a ) = 1 {\displaystyle \#p^{-1}(a)=1} .
This is closely akin to the general problem of conditional convergence, and variations of this idea, called the Eilenberg–Mazur swindle, are sometimes used in knot theory and algebra.
Giaquinta, Mariano (1983), Multiple integrals in the calculus of variations and nonlinear elliptic systems, Annals of Mathematics Studies, vol.
The triangles are similar with area ⁠1/2⁠ab, while the small square has side b − a and area (b − a)2.
A 2025 article by Zelin Dong, Fenglei Fan, Huan Xiong, and Tieyong Zeng introduced the Zero rule into an optimized reverse-search algorithm.
According to Hermann Weyl, the assumption that space is made of finite and discrete units is subject to a further problem, given by the "tile argument" or "distance function problem".
History The questions appeared following Thurston's announcement of the geometrization conjecture, which proposed that all compact 3-manifolds could be decomposed into geometric pieces.
Napoleon was known to be an amateur mathematician, but it is not known if he either created or solved the problem.
An impossible puzzle is a puzzle that cannot be resolved, either due to lack of sufficient information, or any number of logical impossibilities.
Conversely, every problem R in FNP induces a (unique) corresponding decision problem: given x, decide if there exists some y such that R(x,y) holds.
In 1912 Dehn gave an algorithm that solves both the word and conjugacy problem for the fundamental groups of closed orientable two-dimensional manifolds of genus greater than or equal to 2 (the genus 0 and genus 1 cases being trivial).
This special type of QKP forms the 0-1 quadratic knapsack problem, which was first discussed by Gallo et al.
The probability P(m,k) that k black balls will be drawn after m draws can be calculated recursively using the formula P ( m , k ) = y + 1 − k x + y + 1 − k P ( m − 1 , k − 1 ) + x x + y − k P ( m − 1 , k ) {\displaystyle P(m,k)={\frac {y+1-k}{x+y+1-k}}P(m-1,k-1)+{\frac {x}{x+y-k}}P(m-1,k)} .
Zhang (1994) claimed incorrectly that the unit cube in R4 is not an intersection body, which would have implied that the Busemann–Petty problem has a negative solution if the dimension is at least 4.
But Zi-Wei Sun showed that the problem for integers is unsolvable even for equations with no more than 11 unknowns.
A Cauchy problem in mathematics asks for the solution of a partial differential equation that satisfies certain conditions that are given on a hypersurface in the domain.
The description in this book contains the same false drawing as in Hooper's book, but it got corrected in a later edition as well.
For n different from 2, a group G of cohomological dimension n has an n-dimensional Eilenberg–MacLane space.
Given two search problems A , B {\displaystyle A,B} , a polynomial-time parsimonious reduction from A {\displaystyle A} to B {\displaystyle B} is a function f {\displaystyle f} , such that f {\displaystyle f} is computable in polynomial time.
Thus some researches aim to develop a methodology to generate instances of the 0-1 QKP with a predictable and consistent level of difficulty.
The solutions that arrive at this answer ignore that the latter part of: Albert: I don't know when Cheryl's birthday is, but I know that Bernard doesn't know too.
For example, for the SAT problem, a problem instance is a Boolean formula ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } , and the set of potential solutions is the set of boolean value assignments V → { 0 , 1 } {\displaystyle V\to \{0,1\}} , where V {\displaystyle V} is the set of variables in ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } .
When the vertices are placed with no three in line, this kind of problematic placement cannot occur, because the entire line through any two vertices, and not just the line segment, is free of other vertices.
Although it is divergent, it can be manipulated to yield a number of mathematically interesting results.
To prove this, we start with the following claim: for any perfect dissection of a rectangle in squares, the smallest square in this dissection does not lie on an edge of the rectangle.
Optimal packing density One is often interested in packings restricted to use elements of a certain supply collection.
The Van Emde Boas tree achieves a query time of O ( log ⁡ log ⁡ U ) {\displaystyle O(\log \log U)} , but requires O ( U ) {\displaystyle O(U)} space.
The tripod packing problem asks for the maximum number of disjoint tripods, all of whose apexes lie within a larger cube consisting of n 3 {\displaystyle n^{3}} grid cubes, as the parameter n {\displaystyle n} varies.
The Skolem problem is named after Thoralf Skolem, because of his 1933 paper proving the Skolem–Mahler–Lech theorem on the zeros of a sequence satisfying a linear recurrence with constant coefficients.
In unit cells, hole filling can sometimes lead to polyhedral arrays with a mix of hcp and fcc layering.
Symmetrically, if the function evaluates to false, then try changing variables one at a time from false to true to find a maximal truth assignment for which the function still evaluates as false.
Description of the problem The fundamental problem of algebraic number theory is to describe the fields of algebraic numbers.
A major ingredient in Hilbert's proof is the Hilbert basis theorem applied to the ideal inside the polynomial ring generated by the invariants.
Examples of RE-complete problems: Halting problem: Whether a program given a finite input finishes running or will run forever.
What is your opinion about it?" The students had been introduced to the idea of an infinite set, but they had no prior experience with infinite series.
What this implies, for instance, in the case of apple/orange example above, is that the consumers should trade their products for √(2)(1/2) = 1 units of the other product to avoid an arbitrage.
Clock angle problems are a type of mathematical problem which involve finding the angle between the hands of an analog clock.
In 1963, Grätzer and Schmidt proved that every algebraic lattice is isomorphic to the congruence lattice of some algebra.
Paradoxes of motion Three of the strongest and most famous—that of Achilles and the tortoise, the Dichotomy argument, and that of an arrow in flight—are presented in detail below.
Convert the (prime) CNF expression of a function into the (prime) DNF expression for the same function, or vice versa Construct the transversal hypergraph of a given hypergraph.
The Siegel zero, conjectured not to exist, is a possible real zero of a Dirichlet L-series, rather near s = 1.
A show master playing deceitfully half of the times modifies the winning chances in case one is offered to switch to "equal probability".
In number theory, Waring's problem asks whether each natural number k has an associated positive integer s such that every natural number is the sum of at most s natural numbers raised to the power k.
Six spheres surround an octahedral voids with three spheres coming from one layer and three spheres coming from the next layer.
Indeed, each corner square has a smaller adjacent edge square, and the smallest edge square is adjacent to smaller squares not on the edge.
Suppose that |A|,|B| ≥ 2 (that is, barring edge cases) and | A + B | ≤ | A | + | B | − 1 ≤ p − 2 , {\displaystyle |A+B|\leq |A|+|B|-1\leq p-2,} then A and B are arithmetic progressions with the same difference.
In other words, it is the expected Euclidean distance between two random points, where each point in the shape is equally likely to be chosen.
If the a, b, d are to be integers, the smallest solution a > b > d is then 1 20 2 + 1 15 2 = 1 12 2 {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{20^{2}}}+{\frac {1}{15^{2}}}={\frac {1}{12^{2}}}} using the smallest Pythagorean triple 3, 4, 5.
Since the consistency of ZFC implies the consistency of both of the following: The axiom of constructibility (which asserts that all sets are constructible); Martin's axiom plus the negation of the continuum hypothesis, Whitehead's problem cannot be resolved in ZFC.
Hence there seems to be a connection between the Kaplansky conjecture and the vanishing of K 0 ( R [ G ] ) {\displaystyle K_{0}(R[G])} .
The page of the Polymath project, Polymath (2018), contains further research, media citations and verification data.
In addition to these bodies, the packing constants of hyperspheres in 8 and 24 dimensions are almost exactly known.
materials with a negative refractive index) which find applications in super lenses or optical cloaking.
As the left hand side tends to be more easily accessible than the right hand side, because there are hardly any general structure theorems of the C ∗ {\displaystyle C^{*}} -algebra, one usually views the conjecture as an "explanation" of the right hand side.
In geometry, a square trisection is a type of dissection problem which consists of cutting a square into pieces that can be rearranged to form three identical squares.
History The research on the relationship between the max-flow and min-cut of multicommodity flow problem has obtained great interest since Ford and Fulkerson's result for 1-commodity flow problems.
were the first to experimentally realise such a structure using soap bubbles in a system of deformable spheres.
After 5 divisions, there are 1020 coconuts left over, a number divisible by 5 as required by the problem.
On examining all the possible ages, it turns out there are two pairs of sets of possible ages that produce the same sum as each other: 9, 4, 4 and 8, 6, 3, which sum to 17, and 12, 4, 3 and 9, 8, 2, which sum to 19.
In this case, the Brouwer fixed-point theorem follows almost immediately from the intermediate value theorem.
Relationship to other complexity classes Consider an arbitrary decision problem L {\displaystyle L} in the class NP.
Although Kawasaki's theorem completely describes the folding patterns that have flat-folded states, it does not describe the folding process needed to reach that state.
{\displaystyle a(\Gamma _{1})\leq J(u_{1},u_{2},\ldots ,u_{n}).} In the above display J ( u 1 , u 2 , … , u n ) {\displaystyle J(u_{1},u_{2},\ldots ,u_{n})} is the *jacobi number*.
Robinson this is again solvable whenever d = d1 × d2 for two numbers d1 and d2 such that the d1- and d2-dimensional cases are themselves solvable.
This conjecture, later proven by Grigori Perelman in 2003, represented a complete classification of 3-manifolds and included the famous Poincaré conjecture as a special case.
A canonical form solves the classification problem, and is more data: it not only classifies every class, but provides a distinguished (canonical) element of each class.
The question naturally arises of whether there is an algorithm which, given as input two expressions, decides whether they represent the same element.
The ball may also be replaced by dilations of some other convex body, but in general the resulting densities are not equal.
After the late 17th-century introduction of calculus in Europe, but before the advent of modern rigour, the tension between these answers fueled what has been characterized as an "endless" and "violent" dispute between mathematicians.
Lehman argues that seeing such a conflicting outcome in intuitive evaluations may motivate the need for rigorous definitions and attention to detail.
Given the value of p, and no other information relevant to the question of whether the sun will rise tomorrow, the probability that the sun will rise tomorrow is p.
The Birch–Tate conjecture is a conjecture in mathematics (more specifically in algebraic K-theory) proposed by both Bryan John Birch and John Tate.
The finite lattice representation problem asks whether the same is true for finite lattices and finite algebras.
Over the years, Simpson's memorial slowly fell into disrepair and a new plinth was constructed, secured into the mountainside with steel rods.
He jettisoned his main parachute and deployed his reserve parachute; however, by the time he performed the maneuver, he was already at such a low altitude that he struck the ground before his reserve canopy was able to inflate.
After Alexander I's renouncement of the throne in 1442 in favor of Vakhtang IV, Demetrius remained a co-king with the latter, whereas Alexander's third son, George VIII, was made a co-king appanaged in Kakheti.
This city was a base from which the Egyptian Fatimids launched frequent raids on the Kingdom of Jerusalem and Fulk sought to neutralise this threat.
Death On August 16, 1920, while at bat, Chapman was struck in the head and killed by a pitch thrown by Carl Mays during a game against the New York Yankees at the Polo Grounds.
Claude William Wilson (12 May 1858 – 29 June 1881) was an English amateur footballer who played in the 1880 FA Cup Final for Oxford University and made two appearances for England.
In 2011, Cheptegei started the year finishing 55th in the senior race final at the 39th IAAF World Cross Country Championships, Punta Umbria.
He died later the same night at a hospital in Interlaken after undergoing several blood transfusions.
William Richard Harry (30 November 1877 – 21 February 1943) was an Australian rules footballer who played in one game for Carlton in 1906.
Lou Gehrig - New York Yankees's first baseman who was forced into retirement after being diagnosed with ALS, he would ultimately die from the disease, two years later in 1941.
On July 5, 2006, Hickey was appointed to the Executive Council of Newfoundland and Labrador as Minister of Transportation and Works and Minister of Labrador Affairs.
Television Richardson made her American television debut in a small role in the 1984 miniseries Ellis Island.
Niaré competed at the 2001 World Championships, the 2006 European Championships, the 2007 World Championships, the 2008 Olympic Games and the 2009 World Championships without reaching the final.
Initial experiments conducted with dummies dropped from the fifth floor of his apartment building had been successful, but he was unable to replicate those early successes with any of his subsequent designs.
He received an officer's commission in the 6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles in December 1991, and served as an Army Officer until 1995.
He made his competitive debut for Darmstadt on 5 August 2018, coming on as an 80th-minute substitute in a 1–0 win against Paderborn 07 in their opening game of the season.
Reactions to Hickstead's death Hickstead really was a horse in a million and my heart goes out to Eric and everyone connected with this wonderful horse.
Later that year, Leary and Dean Potter set the speed record on The Nose, finishing the 2,900 feet (880 m) foot climb in two hours, 36 minutes, and 45 seconds.
Club career Cuciuffo started his professional career at Chaco For Ever, and later played for Talleres de Córdoba, Vélez Sársfield, Boca Juniors and Belgrano de Córdoba.
The son of Carter and Peggy Thornton of Threave Main Stud farm, he grew up in the Lexington, Kentucky, area and attended the private Sayre School and the Iroquois Polo Club.
Two years later, playing for Whitehaven, Folley was hit underneath the eye in a freak accident while batting in a match against Workington, and was taken to local hospital for a minor operation to repair his perforated eyeball.
Free scores by Mieczysław Karłowicz at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP) Complete CD discography of Karłowicz up to 2009 "Karłowicz's Stone - the last itinerary of Mieczyslaw Karłowicz (music, photos, videos, maps)".
As a result, in March 1844, 22 students left Pressburg in protest; 13 of them went to study at the Evangelical Lýceum in the town of Levoča (Lőcse).
He was shot by mistake by the Emperor when the latter aimed his rifle at a deer and Prince Adam Franz got into the line of fire.
Professional results Death On 18 July, during the fifteenth stage of the 1995 Tour de France, Casartelli and a few other riders crashed on the descent of the Col de Portet d'Aspet mountain pass in the Pyrenees.
At the Harworth and Bircotes Sports and Social Club, there is a museum dedicated to Simpson's memory.
He supported the aviation pioneer Jan Kašpar and supported collecting expeditions including that of Rudolf Grauer (1870–1927).
At the 2015 IAAF World Cross Country Championships, Tirop became the second-youngest ever gold medallist in the women's race, after Zola Budd.
Richard was employed as a clerk, and then as Private Secretary to Colonel Taylor, at the Treasury, until he died, without either marriage or issue, after falling off his horse during a hunt near Bicester on 29 October 1873, and after a shooting accident during November 1873, when he was aged 41.
The victory put Owen in contention for a rematch against Rodríguez and the fight was confirmed at the start of 1980, due for the early months of the year.
Tirop entered the senior ranks in the 2015 season and immediately performed well, winning the Eldoret Discovery Cross Country in Kenya.
It was the first time in more than thirty years that a bullfighter had died during a corrida in Spain (excluding the banderilleros Manolo Montoliú and Ramón Soto Vargas, who died in 1992), the last before Barrio having been José Cubero Sánchez "el Yiyo" on 30 August 1985 at Colmenar Viejo, Madrid.
He later studied in Berlin with Heinrich Urban, to whom he dedicated his Serenade for Strings, which he composed and performed while Urban's student.
In 1985 he bettered his effort of four years earlier by making 1,900 runs at 54.28, and was rewarded with a tour of Sri Lanka with the England B side.
John Jeirus Barnett (December 16, 1879 – September 3, 1923) was an American professional baseball player who played outfielder in the major leagues for the 1907 St.
He competed in his new speciality at the 2007 World Championships in Athletics, but did not manage to finish the race.
Tirop's father and brother had previously testified that Rotich didn't allow Tirop to communicate with her family or financially assist them.
Life and work Oberländer was born in Úpice, Bohemia, Austria-Hungary to the German speaking Jewish industrialist family of Moritz Jakob (1831–1905) and Marie née Morawetz.
A keen parachutist, he died around 2:45 pm on Friday, 4 July 2003, at Hibaldstow Airfield, when both his main and reserve parachutes failed to operate correctly.
References External links Oluyemi Kayode at databaseOlympics Oluyemi Kayode at the Commonwealth Games Federation Archived 12 September 2021 at the Wayback Machine
A feature of the wings was a device to prevent them from opening out too far and ripping his arms from their sockets.
See also List of South Asian Games gold medalists in athletics List of Sri Lankan sportspeople References External links Kawshalya Madushani at World Athletics Kawshalya Madushani at InterSportStats
Patch appears as a "daring moral hero" in the works of Hawthorne and Melville, and also appears in the poem "Paterson" by William Carlos Williams.
Bad weather and the delay in his arrival drew a disappointingly small crowd for this jump, so Patch announced he would repeat the feat a second time from the greater height of 120 feet (37 m) on October 17.
He was the supreme governor of Al Andalus from 1126 to 1137 and would in these years, lead the Almoravids to some notable victories (Aceca in 1130, Fraga in 1134, Badajoz in 1134, Escalona 1137) but he also suffered some losses therein.
Walker married Olympic ski racer Skeeter Werner in 1969, and they lived in her hometown of Steamboat Springs, Colorado.
Dejene Berhanu (December 12, 1980 – August 29, 2010) was a male Ethiopian runner, who specialized in the 5000 metres.
According to a report published on sports magazine Krira Jagat in 1990, Shah Alam joined Bangladesh Army as a Sepahi in 1977 and started participating in inter-unit competitions where he gained instant success.
On 7 September 2000, Anugo was killed after being hit by a car in Sydney, Australia, where he had recently completed team trials in preparation for the Olympics.
Ski Team first wore crash helmets at the 1956 Winter Olympics, but most of the Europeans went without.
On December 9, 2017, Hickey was seriously injured when he accidentally shot himself in the face in a hunting accident.
He had two international caps for his country's national team, whom he represented at the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations.
He scored his first goal for the club and the second of his career on 15 August 2015; a late penalty in a 2–0 victory at home to Stuttgarter Kickers.
Cheptegei finished 3rd in the Quanzhou Half Marathon in 2016, and 12th in the Shanghai Half Marathon in 2017.
1975) Westenholz, who lived at Little Blakesware, Hertfordshire, died at age 60 in a skiing accident on 9 March 2006.
He was killed in 1981 during the third of four runs of the four-man event at the World Championships in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, held at the track used for the 1956 Winter Olympics.
Transition to marathon Despite the fact that Goumri was 21st at the 2007 IAAF World Cross Country Championships, a strong overall team performance (including Anis Selmouni and Ahmed Baday) brought him his first team silver medal at the event.
In 1911, he was heading an expedition into South Sudan along with Richard Štorch (1877–1927) and Bedřich Machulka (1875–1954).
The decision would plunge Pegu and Ava into the fiercest battles of the Forty Years' War in the following years, and bring Pegu to the brink of defeat.
To avoid capture, Hallam bailed out of the balloon's basket but he was obstructed from jumping clear, and fell several hundred feet to his death after his emergency parachute failed to deploy.
1413 – 1453) was the second son of King Alexander I of Georgia by his first wife Dulandukht Orbelian.
Club career Early career Born on 2 May 1991 in Leonberg, Hertner started his career at the academy of KSG Gerlingen, before joining the academy of VfB Stuttgart in 2005.
During this time, he gained his nickname "Stanley", after forgetting a climbing hammer during an expedition and instead bringing a Stanley brand claw hammer.
He set a Moroccan record of 2:05:30 hours for third at the 2008 London Marathon, becoming the sixth fastest marathoner at that point.
Morosini's death came four weeks after Fabrice Muamba suffered a cardiac arrest in an English FA Cup match, after which awareness of heart risk had been raised in Italian football.
Four years later, when Atlanta, United States hosted The Games, he ended up in 53rd place, clocking 2:22:11.
Marriage and children He married in Madrid in 1677 the Spanish Doña Juana Monica de Aragon y Benavidez (†1691), daughter of the 6th Duke of Segorbe.
According to the memoirs of his grandson Charles-Joseph de Ligne, he died while hunting, waiting for a wild boar.
(The song can be heard on a 2012 release by the Diversions record label, The Finck Album, sung by Mart Sander.) Personal life Before entering service for World War I, Hallam fell in love with Elsie Janis, with whom he had starred in The Passing Show of 1915.
His personal best throw in the shot put was 20.72 metres, a French national record, achieved in May 2008 in Versailles.
His WJR time of 26:41.75 was good enough for third place in the race behind Kenenisa Bekele's world record, set in the same race, of 26:17.53 and Boniface Kiprop's 26:39.77.
Oberländer's trophies and specimens were distributed to a number of museums including the Natural History Museum in Vienna.
4 (The Most Beautiful Songs) Z nowa wiosna O nie wierz temu, co powiedza ludzie Czasem, gdy długo Rdzawe liście Pod jaworem słowa Pod naszymi okny Piano (solo) Preludium i fuga podwójna, Op.
1851–1897) was an American inventor, credited with introducing electric motors for the purpose of marine propulsion.
According to al-Maqrizi, in 1403 Emperor Dawit pursued the Sultan of Ifat, Sa'ad ad-Din II, to Zeila, where he killed Sa'ad ad-Din and sacked the city.
His maternal grandmother's father was John Allen Olton who owned the Harrow estate in Saint Philip, Barbados.
His son Cesare commissioned from Leone a more public monument, a bronze Triumph of Ferrante Gonzaga over Envy, (1564), which stands in Piazza Roma, Guastalla.
His brother was the interior designed and fellow skier, Piers von Westenholz, whose second wife Jane is one of the official Queen's companions to Queen Camilla.
He boxed one professional boxing match in the heavyweight class in 2003, which he beat his opponent Peter Simko on technical knockout after 25 seconds.
Additional film credits include Blow Dry (2001), Chelsea Walls (2001), Waking Up in Reno (2002), Maid in Manhattan (2002), Asylum (2005), which won Richardson a second Evening Standard Award for Best Actress, The White Countess (2005), and Evening (2007).
He did not play a Test or one-day international on the tour, and was never again picked for England.
His first rodeo awards were won when he was 10, at the "Little Buckaroos" Rodeos held in Uintah Basin: first in bareback, second in calf roping, and third in the "bull riding" (calf riding) event.
Deaths in motorsport can be categorised as follows: Driver deaths in motorsport This section covers all driver deaths in car or truck racing events.
In 2013, a new road was named in her honour on the former Ipswich Airport site, providing access to the employment use portions of Ravenswood.
He became a member of the Lexington Police Department's narcotics squad in the early 1970s and worked on narcotics investigations with the Louisville office of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
While Bahram was occupied with the war with the Romans, his eastern neighbours—Kidarites—crossed the Oxus river and invaded the Sasanian realm, conquering the rich city of Marw and even reaching as far as westwards as Ray.
He was shot accidentally by a friend whilst being part of a shooting expedition at Lake Ellesmere / Te Waihora.
Achievements References (in Spanish) Spanish Olympic Committee Archived 2006-09-26 at the Wayback Machine (in English) sports-reference
Henri Louis Ernest of Ligne (2 February 1644 – 8 February 1702) was a Southern Netherlands nobleman from the House of Ligne and the 4th Prince of Ligne, Amboise, and Épinoy.
Marie Louise Élisabeth d'Alençon (posthumously, Palace of Versailles, 16 June 1714 – 17 June 1714, Palace of Versailles).
One of two five-wicket hauls he took, these figures came for the Marylebone Cricket Club against Nottinghamshire in 1874.
Larger Ava forces not only broke the siege but also sacked the main Pegu forward base at Nawin, near Prome, on 26 December 1402.
He set his personal best (2:08:31) in the classic distance on 26 September 1999, at the Berlin Marathon, where he finished third.
Deaths among racers and spectators were numerous in the early years of racing, but advances in safety technology, and specifications designed by sanctioning bodies to limit speeds, have reduced the rate of fatal accidents.
Another possible sign of their arrival is an itinerary of a journey from Venice by Rhodes, Cyprus, Jerusalem, Cairo and Axum to the court of Preste John in Shewa.
Education Emeric was educated in a strict and ascetic spirit by the Benedictine monks from Venice, Gerard, from the age of 15 to 23.
She claimed her second national title at the 2017 National Athletics Championships which she successfully defended.
Foley had nine DGA Award nominations and 21 Emmy nominations—a record for a single person working on a variety series.
The coronation of Fulk and Melisende took place on 14 September, the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, in the Church of the Holy Sepulcher.
London 2012 Olympics During a segment of the opening ceremony of the 2012 Summer Olympics entitled "Happy and Glorious", Sutton served as a stunt double of James Bond on a helicopter in a filmed portion of the segment.
Other attempted insurrections followed, including one by Carlos Rangel Garviras, head of the Autonomous Party of the Andes from Colombia.
According to Černý, Beneš used such violent and vulgar language about Stalin that he did not bother writing down the president's commentary, believing it was unpublishable.
By 2001, over a dozen principal warehouses throughout the country enabled widespread distribution of Tiko products to urban and rural areas, with a flagship warehouse in the Akorandrano neighborhood of Antananarivo.
In 1914, after the death of three anti-militarist demonstrators, insurrections broke out across much of Italy for a week, which became known as "Red Week".
Also, with the Popular Front victory, radicalized peasants led by the Socialists began seizing land on 25 March.
He would frequent Sanson's farm in Borbon, suggesting he was aware of the identity of his real father.
D'Aragona was the minister of posts and communications in the fourth cabinet of De Gasperi and minister of transport in the sixth cabinet of De Gasperi.
Tuğba Hezer Öztürk (born 4 October 1989, Erciş, Turkey) is a Turkish politician from Kurdish descent of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and a former Member of the Grand National Assembly for of Van.
While in exile, he gave an interview to The Indian Express, alleging that the July Uprising was the result of a "joint coup by Islamic terrorists and the army".
Political career In 1922, Saragat joined the Unitary Socialist Party (Partito Socialista Unitario; PSU) under the influence of Piero Gobetti, and began collaborating with Claudio Treves' journal La Giustizia.
The new junta under the leadership of Traoré later accused Damiba of trying to flee towards the French military base of Camp Kamboinsin in order to mount a counter-coup.
While Çelikbilek and Koç fled Belgium, they were later convicted in absentia and sentenced to five years in prison by the Brussels Court of Appeals in 2024.
Correa has denied all wrongdoing, and has called the charges against him politically motivated attempts to discredit his movement.
Autobiography of Giacomo Ferrari the noble revolutionary) (ISBN 9788890852428) which features articles about his struggle against Fascists in Parma in 1922.
Radio Pública, El Ciudadano, ANDES and PP were also created under Correa's presidency and are administered by state agencies.
Prior to his accession in 1944, Osmeña served as governor of Cebu from 1906 to 1907, member and first speaker of the Philippine House of Representatives from 1907 to 1922, and senator from the 10th senatorial district for thirteen years, in which capacity he served as Senate president pro tempore.
Almonte was once again made Minister of War, and he counseled President Paredes to seek foreign allies to give Mexico a fighting chance against the United States.
In January 2026, he was arrested, tried and extradited to Burkina Faso over the accusations against him.
Marcos had provided favors to the Soviets such as allowing the banned Philippine Communist Party to visit the Soviet Union for consultations.
Post-war return to politics In May 1945 Honecker was "picked up" by chance in Berlin by Hans Mahle and taken to the Ulbricht Group, a collective of exiled German communists that had returned from the Soviet Union to Germany after the end of the Nazi regime.
In addition to other awards, Hochmuth received the Vaterländischer Verdienstorden in silver in 1960 and in gold in 1974, and in 1979 the clasp of honor for the Patriotic Order of Merit.
Debry was again elected in September 1792, as a representative of Aisne in the new National Convention.
Magloire was very fond of a vivid social life, staging numerous parties, social events, and ceremonies.
According to Anders Åslund (in October 2012) Tabachnyk "could hardly care less about the real problems in Ukrainian education" but instead "His endeavor to sovietize Ukrainian historiography and promote russification attracts most attention".
Early life and writings Rómulo Gallegos was born in Caracas to Rómulo Gallegos Osío and Rita Freire Guruceaga, into a family of humble origin.
The award includes a cash prize of €100,000 making it among the richest literary prizes in the world.
As such, the Plenary Chamber of the Supreme Tribunal of Justice would decide whether to strip the deputy of his parliamentary immunity.
As minister of Foreign Affairs, he was instrumental in breaking the proto-fascist feud led by poet Gabriele D'Annunzio in Fiume.
His grandparents fled Ukraine when it was part of the Soviet Union and settled in Cuba where they lived for 43 years; in 1970, they escaped from Cuba to Venezuela when his father was 13 years old.
There he organized the local branch of the Turkish Human Rights Association (IHD) and joined the first Kurdish party in Turkey, the People's Labor Party (HEP).
Founding member of the Marxist Socialist Workers Party (PST), of which he was secretary general in the 1980s.
Republican activist In 1915 Just joined the Juventud Nacionalista Republicana (Republican Nationalist Youth).
On 8 March 2013, a 17-year-old student Tanvir Mohammad Toki, as found dead in Narayanganj two days after he had gone missing.
In January 2014, after a court decided the imprisonment their imprisonment violated their human rights, since they were elected as MPs, he was released from prison together with Selma Irmak, Gülser Yıldırım, Kemal Aktas and Ibrahim Ayhan.
On August 7, Iskender Pasha entered Bucharest with ten Ottoman Cossacks, meeting Cantacuzino for advice on how to run the transition of power.
After the victory of the Republicans and due to the Amnesty Law issued by the government of Benito Juárez, the former General López Uraga recovered ownership of the Islas Marías in 1878.
President Paredes had made Almonte minister to France in March, but while he was headed to Europe, Almonte encountered Santa Anna in Cuba, who was now plotting to return to Mexico in the midst of an anti-Paredes coup which had come about after months of Mexican military failures.
His father was a descendant of the Counts of Castel San Giovanni, an illegitimate branch of the House of Sforza who had ruled the Duchy of Milan in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.
He was elected to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 1991 on a ticket with the Social Democratic Populist Party for the Siirt province.
Furthermore, his own companies tended to be awarded most of the government contracts for which they bid, although this occurred transparently and legally, due to a weak legal framework around conflict of interest.
A secretariat committee composed of Oddino Morgari, Giuseppe Saragat and Angelo Tasca assumed the post on 2 September 1939.
842–847), he was one of the targets of a general crackdown against the government secretaries in 843-4, during which he and his subordinates were fined and forced to hand over one million gold dinars to the caliph.
She graduated from a conservatory and worked as a teacher during which she became familiar with the anti-Fascist movement.
Sivoli participated in the extraordinary session of the National Assembly on 26 December 2020 in which the extension of the Assembly's mandate was approved.
D'Aragona served as the minister of labor and social security in the second government of Alcide De Gasperi between 1946 and 1947.
In that year Hurricane Hazel ravaged the country, and funds intended to provide relief for the populace were often stolen before they could reach those in need.
In addition, D'Aragona was the director of the weekly magazine Il Lavoro socialista in 1946, of the fortnightly magazine Battaglie sindacali in the period 1947–1948, and of the weekly magazine Democrazia socialista in 1949.
Due to political persecution, he fled to Vienna in 1926 (joined by his wife in 1927) and then to France in 1929.
His novel Doña Bárbara was first published in 1929 and it was because of the book's criticisms of the regime of longtime dictator Juan Vicente Gómez that he was forced to flee the country.
Enter its humble hearths and raise the legions of proletarians that the world may tremble before their awakened judges.
A federal republican, he briefly served as civil governor of Madrid and as Minister of War in the wake of the proclamation of the First Spanish Republic.
On 30 September 2022, Damiba was ousted by the dissatisfied army elements headed by Captain Ibrahim Traoré.
He served in the Council of Five Hundred for the entire duration of the Directory regime and as its president between December 1796 and January 1797, seating with the Thermidorians as a dedicated supporter of the Republic.
State Department to the United States embassies in Moscow and Mexico City and consulates in Saigon and Singapore.
The latter measures were clearly aimed at keeping Ben Ali in office; he faced having to give up the presidency in 2004.
After Juan Guaidó was declared Venezuela's acting president, Olivares began assisting Guaidó in his efforts to bring humanitarian aid to Venezuela.
As the situation in the Philippines worsened, Aquino decided to return to face Marcos and restore democracy in the country, despite numerous threats against him.
He served as a deputy at the Italian Parliament and as a secretary general of the Italian Socialist Party for a short period between 1948 and 1949.
At this time he began distance learning at the Deutsche Akademie für Staats- und Rechtswissenschaft „Walter Ulbricht“ (German Academy for Political Science and Law "Walter Ulbricht").
See also Liste des membres de la Convention nationale par département (in French) Liste des présidents de la Convention nationale (in French) References Richard Ballard: The Unseen Terror .
He acquired a considerable reputation, but in 1843 his political opinions brought him under the suspicion of the police and caused his expulsion from the Papal States.
He was implicated in the Revolt of 1 prairial year III (20 May 1795) and condemned to deportation before being given an amnesty.
He was for a time the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Venezuela to France during the 1930s.
On September 21, he rode back to Bucharest, presenting his services to the Ottoman Army under Fuad Pasha; reportedly, he had been called back by Duhamel.
In 1957, he directed his first full-length film, La grande strada azzurra (The Wide Blue Road), which foreshadowed his mature style of later films.
Ideology Vallenilla was "largely responsible for developing a body of historical and sociological theory dealing with issues of race, power relations, and social development".
He wrote about trade union topics in the newspaper Avanti and then directed a magazine entitled Vita workeria.
Thermidor and the Directory In 1794, Barras sided with the men who sought to overthrow Maximilien Robespierre's faction.
Early life and family Osman was born on 28 February 1961 to a Bengali Muslim political family in Narayanganj, East Pakistan.
Carmen María Sivoli is a Venezuelan politician, deputy of the National Assembly for the Mérida state.
Later years During World War II Just was interned in the concentration camp of Camp Vernet near Le Vernet, Ariège from 19 February 1941 to 6 December 1941.
Political career She was elected to the Turkish Parliament as a deputy for the province of Van in June 2015 and re-elected in November 2015 as the youngest member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
Jorge Masetti, a former Argentine guerrilla working with Cuban intelligence services, describes the Somoza assassination and also asserts that Cuba had a direct role in planning it in his memoir, In the Pirate's Den (2002).
Luis Germán Florido Barreto (born September 18, 1966) is a Venezuelan politician and administrator who served as National Assembly deputy from 2016 to 2021, representing Lara State for the Voluntad Popular political party.
During the dictatorial regimen of Marcos Perez Jimenez (1952-1958), while in exile in Guatemala, he managed the same laboratory where Ernesto Guevara worked in 1954.
Renamed the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP), this new strategy was intended to build on the successes of his first term to accelerate and expand national development.
Then, with the fall of Talavera de la Reina and the Army of Morocco within reach of Madrid, Giral was forced to cede power to Francisco Largo Caballero.
Tauris, London New York 2010 ISBN 978-1-84885-325-6 Ballard, Richard, The political apprenticeship of Bernard de Saintes in History Review, issue 54 (March 2006), pp 45–50.
In Europe he joined the Kurdistan Parliament in Exile (PKDW) and later the Kurdistan National Congress (KNK) and Kurdistan Union of Communities (KCK), where he became head of the legislature in 2003.
Her second husband, Vittorio Della Porta, was a physician who left her when she was in prison in 1944.
At the end of 2008, a constitutional amendment project of Article 230 of the Venezuelan Constitution was presented by pro-government factors, whose intention is to allow the possibility of running presidential candidates continuously.
However, he was also involved in the deaths of the revolutionary leader Andrés Bonifacio and general Antonio Luna.
In late 2021, an army of jihadists overran the base of a gendarmerie in Inata, Soum, killing 49 gendarmes and four civilians.
He was deputy to the French National Convention and a member of the Chambre des représentants de France during the Hundred Days.
In November 2021 the High Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine called for Salamatin's arrest in a case of embezzlement of more than 23.87 million US dollars.
A military council would have been charged with organizing elections within 24 months and re-writing the constitution for the "Fourth Republic".
He took part in the battles of Stalingrad, Orel-Kursk, and in the liberation of Kharkiv, Kyiv, and Prague.
Honours Табачник, Дмитрий Владимирович Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise Order of Bohdan Khmelnytsky 3rd class Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic (October 28, 1996).
He published articles and poems in the newspapers "Azerbaijan", "Istiglal", "Basirat", and in the journal "Gurtulush yolu".
Like other architects of his generation he was influenced from German expressionism and the architectural approach led by Erich Mendelsohn.
The students who arrived in Paris on 11 February were welcomed by the delegation headed by Alimardan bey Topchubashi, who was participating in the Paris Peace Conference.
Ludovico D'Aragona (23 May 1876 – 17 June 1961) was an Italian socialist politician who held several government posts.
He served as the municipal councilor in Biella in 1895 and as the director of the newspaper Corriere Biellese in 1896.
Somoza also allegedly exported freshly imported emergency blood plasma abroad at the time of the earthquake, when most medical supplies in Nicaragua were desperately in short supply.
and took part in a socialist congress held between the end of May and the beginning of June that year.
Acting on Ghica's behalf, he welcomed at Calafat the Ottoman inspector, Hüseyin Pasha, with whom he discussed means of tackling Russian intrigues in Wallachia.
On 23 August 2013, Kurchenko met with the editors of Ukrainian Media Holding and presented a new structure named VETEK Media.
After the Proclamation of the Second Spanish Republic in April 1931, Azaña became Minister of War of the Provisional Government and enacted military reform, looking to develop a modern armed forces with fewer army officers.
Political Career and the Second Spanish Republic In 1929, when in the "Cárcel Modelo of Madrid" Albornoz would found, along with Marcelino Domingo, the new Radical Socialist Republican Party.
Following the final dissolution of the PSU in 1930, Saragat joined the Italian Socialist Party (Partito Socialista Italiano, PSI).
It is then encased in natural intestine, usually together with a strip of fat, and smoked over a mixture of herbs including sage, bay laurel, thyme, terebinth, and myrtle.
The primary reason is that often these old recipes contain many times more curing ingredients than are appropriate.
Helicobacter pylori is linked to cancer, and antibiotic resistance impedes the success of current antibiotic-based eradication treatments.
Glucono-δ-lactone (GDL), also known as gluconolactone, is an organic compound with the formula −CH(CH2OH)(CHOH)3C(O)O−.
Nearly 100 sculptors come from around the world each year to sculpt large blocks of pristine natural ice sometimes referred to as "Arctic Diamonds".
Smoked lapsang souchong is manufactured similar to black tea but with an intermediary step of smoking or the addition of an artificial smoke flavour.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
Three Little Pigs became known for its pâtés and catering business recognized by notable food critics such as James Beard, Mimi Sheraton and Craig Claiborne.
Salt pork that contains a significant amount of meat, resembling standard side bacon, is known as "streak o' lean." It is traditionally popular in the Southeastern United States.
Adesso's menu focused on salumi and Pâté, with a substantially larger array of charcuterie available than at Dopo.
They are used in some dishes, and they are also pressed into cakes and used for animal feed, especially for dogs and pigs, or as fish bait.
Limosilactobacillus is a thermophilic and heterofermentative genus of lactic acid bacteria created in 2020 by splitting from Lactobacillus.
GDL is pH-neutral, but hydrolyses in water to gluconic acid which is acidic, adding a tangy taste to foods, though it has roughly a third of the sourness of citric acid.
This increased need for space was due not only to an upswing in the volume of meat sales, but also to the need for separating raw meats from processed foods to avoid cross-contamination and the resulting possibility of foodborne illness.
Music video A music video of the song was released on Tidal on June 6, 2016, with a 30-second teaser available to non-subscribers.
Dahi puri is another snack from India which is especially popular from the city of Mumbai in the state of Maharashtra and in the Ahmedabad city of Gujarat state.
Eddie Fu from Uproxx called it a "grown and sexy R&B track", also writing that "Ty Dolla $ign has shown he’s adept at working with pop acts in the past...
Phylogeny The currently accepted taxonomy is based on the List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature and the phylogeny is based on whole-genome sequences.
Salo is often chopped into small pieces and fried to render fat for cooking, while the remaining shkvarky (a type of cracklings) are used as condiments for fried potatoes or varenyky or spread on bread as a snack.
D’Artagnan's product line quickly expanded to include game meats and heritage breed poultry, organic chicken, heritage turkey, grass-fed beef, humanely-raised veal and pork, pheasant, quail, squab and prepared products like pâté, dry-cured sausages, smoked duck breast and duck prosciutto.
Preservation For preservation, salo is salted and sometimes also smoked and aged in a dark and cold place, where it will last for a year or more.
Meat confit Confit of goose (confit d'oie) or duck (confit de canard) is usually prepared from the legs of the bird.
The use of trace amounts of tallow as an additive to the substrate used in polymer banknotes came to light in November 2016.
Grisons Meat is described by 18th century travellers, in particular by Johann Gottfried Ebel who notes that "the air is so dry from Sils to St.
In this case, food is flash frozen and put into a reduced-pressure system which causes the water to sublimate directly from the solid to the gaseous phase.
Modern terrines do not necessarily contain meat or animal fat, but still contain meat-like textures and fat substitutes, such as mushrooms and pureed fruits or vegetables high in pectin.
In a 1665 letter to the Director of New Netherland from the Island of Curaçao there is a request to send greens: "I request most amicably that your honors be pleased to send me seed of every sort, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, etc.
In 2006, following the passing of the Civil Partnership Act 2004, which allowed same-sex couples in the United Kingdom to have a legally-recognised union similar to marriage, it was proposed that they should be eligible to claim the flitch.
In his 1699 book, Acetaria: A Discourse of Sallets, often considered the first book on salads, John Evelyn attempted with little success to encourage his fellow Britons to eat fresh salad greens.
De Haimet et de Barat et Travers In De Haimet et de Barat et Travers, two thieves, the eponymous brothers Haimet and Barat, and a peasant farcically steal and then steal back, repeatedly, a piece of bacon.
The town of Yecapixtla is well known for its version of the dish, which varies from region to region.
Secondary binders Often, the only binder in a forcemeat is the physical structure of the protein used.
Water is traditionally removed through evaporation by using methods such as air drying, sun drying, smoking or wind drying, although today electric food dehydrators or freeze-drying can be used to speed the drying process and ensure more consistent results.
The indoor withering is done with the leaves laid out on bamboo mats and turned at intervals, followed by a period of rolling to break cell walls and initiate oxidation.
However, it wasn't until the 1990s that charcuterie boards had a resurgence in popularity as American grocery stores diversified their offerings and specialty food stores became more common.
This led to further research surrounding the use of sodium nitrite as an additive in food, standardizing the amount present in foods to minimize the amount needed while maximizing its food additive role.
Since boning poultry can be difficult and time-consuming for the novice, this is a rather elaborate dish, which is often lavishly decorated, hence its name, connoting a presentation at table that is galant, or urbane and sophisticated.
At this point the sausage should be chilled in ice water, then cold smoked at a temperature of 46 to 49 °C (115 to 120 °F) for 2–3 hours.
Varieties There are numerous varieties of French pâtés or terrines, including: Parfait Chicken liver parfait is a subtype of pâté.
The style of formal dining changed drastically in the 19th century, becoming successive courses served one after the other over a period of time.
Veal stock (in particular, stock from a boiled calf's foot) provides a great deal of gelatin, so other types of meat are often included when making stock.
D’Artagnan's line of products became more available to the consumer public when it began selling items to major grocery stores Balducci's and the Food Emporium in 1996.
Salt pork typically resembles uncut side bacon, but is fattier, being made from the lowest part of the belly, and saltier, as the cure is stronger and performed for longer, and never smoked.
As a stand-alone food product, it is typically boiled to remove much of the salt content and to partially cook the product, then fried until it starts to develop a crisp exterior.
A garde manger (French: [gaʁd mɑ̃ʒe]) is a cool, well-ventilated area where savory cold dishes (such as salads, hors d'œuvres, appetizers, canapés, pâtés, and terrines) are prepared and other foods are stored under refrigeration.
Salt pork now finds use in traditional American cuisine, particularly Boston baked beans, pork and beans, and to add its flavor to vegetables cooked in water, as with greens in soul food.
The classic dish of quenelles de brochet Nantua or simply quenelles Nantua consists of pike quenelles with sauce Nantua, both pike and crayfish being specialties of the Nantua area.
Composition It is generally recommended to diversify the items on a charcuterie board in terms of type (e.g.
A hank can consist of a varying number of strands (individual pieces of casing) which vary in length from 2 meters (which is the shortest length sold for commercial use) to as long as 28 meters.
For his products, Meduna received awards at the 1873 Vienna World's Fair, the 1878 Paris Exposition, and in 1879 a Silver Cross of Merit by Minister Béla Wenckheim on behalf of Emperor Franz Joseph I for the services achieved during the World Exhibition in Paris.
Upon addition to water, GDL is partially hydrolysed to gluconic acid, with the balance between the lactone form and the acid form established as a chemical equilibrium.
In nouvelle cuisine, which shifted the standard food presentation approach from larger platters to individually pre-portioned plates, the garde manger is often responsible for arranging food decoratively on the plates.
Buccan or Boucan is the native South American and Caribbean name for a wooden framework or hurdle on which meat was slow-roasted or smoked over a fire.
This invention of a faux Polynesian experience is heavily influenced by Don the Beachcomber, who is credited for the creation of the pūpū platter and the drink named the Zombie for his Hollywood restaurant.
Gammon can also served as gammon steaks, which are fried or grilled, and served in a similar manner to bacon.
Many of the odor compounds in wood smoke, especially the phenolic compounds, are unstable, dissipating after a few weeks or months.
Nonetheless, the brothers manage to steal the bacon, but while they are cooking it on a fire in the forest, Travers steals it back, scaring them away by pretending to be a ghost.
An antipasto plate, the first dish of a formal Italian meal, is similar to a composed salad, and has vegetables, cheese, and meat.
It is typically produced by the aerobic oxidation of glucose in the presence of the enzyme glucose oxidase.
An acceptable daily intake (ADI) for nitrate ions was established in the range of 0–3.7 mg (kg body weight)−1 day−1 by the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JEFCA).
Noumboulo (from Venetian nombolo: loin) is a traditional charcuterie product of the Island of Corfu.
Meduna was one of several Friulian entrepreneurs who adapted Italian culinary tradition and created a new market and industry for salami.
Natural casings Origin Natural sausage casings are made from the sub-mucosa of the small intestine of meat animals, a layer of the intestine that consists mainly of naturally occurring collagen.
Following the legalisation of same-sex marriage in England, Wales, and Scotland in 2014, the 2016 trials were the first in which same-sex couples were eligible to claim the flitch; in 2024 a Dunmow couple, Emma Hynds and Emma D'Costa, became the first both to apply for and to be awarded the flitch.
Their presence in finished products has been tightly regulated since several food-poisoning cases in the early 20th century, but consumption of large quantities of processed meats can still cause a slight elevation in gastric and oesophageal cancer risk today.
The Dunmow tradition originated nearby at Little Dunmow, where it was practiced until the mid-eighteenth century.
By extension, a quenelle may also be another food made into a similar shape, such as ice cream, sorbet, butter, or mashed potato quenelles.
Instead the term cheese board might be used for a dish with largely cheese or some other descriptive title used for a board with a large variety of different cold foodstuffs.
In Russia, the pâté is served on a plate or in a bowl, and is typically moulded into the shapes of animals, such as hedgehogs.
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
Throughout much of the rest of Europe and parts of the English-speaking culinary world, speck is usually South Tyrolean speck, a type of Italian smoked ham.
Fatback is a layer of subcutaneous fat taken from under the skin of the back of a domestic pig, with or without the skin (referred to as pork rind).
Tallow and compounds including tallow were widely used to lubricate locomotive and steamship engines at least until the 1950s.
Examples include fresh or dried fruits, olives and olive oil, nuts, vinegars, pickled or fresh vegetables/crudités, fresh herbs, chocolates, edible flowers, and a variety of spreads such as mustards, honey, and fruit preserves.
Biography A descendant of the Meduna family, he was born on 30 June 1821 in Castelcucco, Austrian Empire, as Giuseppe Carlo Meduna, son of Severo and brother of Francesco Meduna, mayor of Castelcucco in 1868.
As a processed meat, the term ham includes both whole cuts of meat and ones that have been mechanically formed.
Adesso had been rated among the top hundred restaurants in the Bay Area by the San Francisco Chronicle in 2010 and 2011.
Other uncooked sausages are available in certain regions in link form, including Italian, bratwurst, chorizo, and linguica.
Henry Bate Dudley's "ballad opera" The Flitch of Bacon was first performed in 1778; it continued to be widely produced into the nineteenth century.
After the 19th century the entremet would become almost exclusively a sweet dish or dessert with the British custom of the "savoury" being the only remaining tradition of the savoury entremet.
In cuisine As an ingredient, fatback is a preferred fat for various forms of charcuterie, particularly sausages and forcemeats for pâtés and terrines.
This can be quicker, increase the weight of the finished product by more than immersion, and ensure a more even distribution of salt through the meat.
Nitrosamines have a nitroso group (NO+) that are "probable human carcinogens", bonded to a deprotonated amine.
salami, ham etc.) and the term 'charcuterie board' would not be widely used for a board with cheese, fruit and a small amount of meat as is the case in North America.
Most merchants who worked outside noble manors at this time were associated with a guild, an association of persons of the same trade formed for their mutual aid and protection.
Speck can refer to a number of European cured pork products, typically salted and air-cured and often lightly smoked but not cooked.
The name Leuconostoc comes from Greek adjective leukos meaning clear; and the word nostoc gelatinous colonies, Leuconostoc - colorless nostoc.
Grilling sausages: Appenzeller Siedwurst, Berner Zungenwurst, Cervelat, Emmentalerli, Frauenfelder Salzissen, Glarner Kalberwurst, Kümmelwurst, Schüblig, Schützenwurst, St.
In French cuisine, galantine (French: [galɑ̃tin]) is a dish of boned, stuffed meat, most commonly poultry or fish, that is usually poached and served cold, often coated with aspic.
By the 15th century the elaborate display and performances were served up between courses, and could be edible or displays of subjects relevant to the host, created in butter sculpture or other types of crafted work.
In the early 19th century, the French chef Marie-Antoine Carême created Chaudfroid sauce, the name referencing foods that were prepared hot and served cold.
Job requirements As with most hands-on cooking positions, a garde manger chef needs fine motor skills and physical stamina, as well as cooking skills and knowledge of food safety.
The frozen blocks can range from 90×50×15 cm to 90×50×20 cm, and the force applied from 80,000 newtons (18,000 lbf) to 120,000 newtons (27,000 lbf).
This sausage is most similar to English-style sausages and has been made in the United States since colonial days.
The dish was sometimes boiled or simmered before or after straining, and sometimes left uncooked, depending on the recipe.
Besides the domestic manually or motor operated grinders, there are also grinders for butchery (table- or shop-grinders for example) and for the food industry.
Other Friulian butchers followed suit in the seasonal production of winter salami, including the Del Medico brothers, the Guglielmini, Suberca, Molinari, Boschetti, Forgiarini, Dozzi, Vidoni and Venturini.
The company generates revenue through direct sales to restaurants, retailers and the consumer public on its website.
See also References External links Consejo Regulador de la Indicación Geográfica Protegida "Cecina de León", PGI Consortium Cecina de León elaboration
The dish is part of winter holiday celebrations such as the traditional Russian New Year (novy god) or Christmas meal.
In 19th century the word would be dautsher to denote a Germanizer and his way of speaking was dautsherish.
The Fernaig manuscript (Scottish Gaelic: Làmh-sgrìobhainn Fheàrnaig or Làmh-sgrìobhainn MhicRath) is a document containing approximately 4,200 lines of verse consisting largely of political and religious themes.
In the Unix communities of the ex-USSR countries, Caps Lock key is traditionally used as input language switcher, convenient for usage with touch typing.
The English language uses a rather large set of 13 to 21 vowel phonemes, including diphthongs, although its 22 to 26 consonants are close to average.
Psychoanalysis, rhetoric, and archetypes An alternative definition of symbol, distinguishing it from the term sign was proposed by Swiss psychoanalyst Carl Jung.
Spelling patterns usually follow certain conventions but nearly every sound can be legitimately spelled with different letters or letter combinations.
They account for 95% of the total inscriptions discovered and mostly read from left to right (like the Greek alphabet).
He served in Indian Army Pioneer Corps during World War II and was promoted from a private soldier to 2nd lieutenant in January 1941.
In particular, he said, the \ was needed so that the ALGOL Boolean operators ∧ (logical conjunction) and ∨ (logical disjunction) could be composed using /\ and \/ respectively.
Most of the world's alphabets either descend directly from this Proto-Sinaitic script, or were directly inspired by its design.
An asterism used this way is thus a type of dinkus: nowadays this usage of the symbol is nearly obsolete.
The European ordering rules (EOR / EN 13710) define an ordering for strings written in languages that are written with the Latin, Greek and Cyrillic alphabets.
Serafini described the script of the Codex as asemic in a talk at the Oxford University Society of Bibliophiles held on 8 May 2009.
This process exists in opposition to phonetics and word analysis, as a different method of recognizing and verbalizing visual language (i.e.
In an abugida, there may be a sign for k with no vowel, but also one for ka (if a is the inherent vowel), and ke is written by modifying the ka sign in a way consistent with how la would be modified to get le.
The oldest attested inscription bears a clear resemblance to South Indian epigraphical records of the sixth-eighth centuries, written in local subtypes of the Brahmi script.
Lowercase the second word in a hyphenated compound when it is a prefix or suffix (e.g., "Anti-itch", "World-wide") or part of a single word.
In morphology, the ending ⟨-а⟩/⟨-у⟩ denoting genitive case is regulated as ⟨-а⟩, as in Russian, and not as ⟨-у⟩, as in certain modern dialects.
Some Christians changed their profile pictures to the letter ن as a symbol of support, calling it the "Mark of the Nazarene".
URLs: The path, query, fragment, and authority sections of a URL may or may not be case-sensitive, depending on the receiving web server.
Various main systems are used to document Evenki texts: a Latin-based, pinyin-like alphabet; Mongolian orthography (experimentally); as well as Chinese hieroglyphics.
It was a development of the earlier double oblique hyphen ⸗, which developed from a Central European variant of the virgule slash, originally a form of scratch comma.
The same scholars' collection of songs has some orthographic differences from the table below; namely, long vowels are occasionally written not just doubled but also with an intervening silent ᠭ (ɣ), showing clear orthographic influence from the Mongolian language.
Since most English nouns (excluding pronouns) have no grammatical gender, words such as teacher(s), student(s), professor(s), and so on, can be used without implying the gender of the being(s) to which the noun refers.
History and etymology The term was coined in the 19th century to describe the style of Yiddish spoken by some educated Eastern European Jews.
The manuscript was composed between 1688 and 1693 by Donnchadh MacRath in Wester Ross (Scottish Gaelic: Ros an Iar) and is notable for the author's unique orthography which is, like the more famous Book of the Dean of Lismore, based upon English, rather than Classical Gaelic, phonetics.
In programming languages Some programming languages are case-sensitive for their identifiers (C, C++, Java, C#, Verilog, Ruby, Python and Swift).
The standard covers languages used by the European Union, the European Free Trade Association, and parts of the former Soviet Union.
For example, there are two words spelled invite, one is a verb and is stressed on the second syllable, the other is a noun and stressed on the first syllable (without changing any of the individual sounds).
Some words have both hyphenated and unhyphenated variants: de-escalate/deescalate, co-operation/cooperation, re-examine/reexamine, de-emphasize/deemphasize, and so on.
Rumelhart and McClelland then extended the idea by expressing the triples in phonetic terms as Wickelfeatures.
For instance, when users interested in learning about dogs search an e-book, "dog" and "Dog" are of the same significance to them.
Zhuang languages were traditionally written with Chinese characters, but are now usually written with romanized alphabets.
For human readers, the difference is imperceptible and unimportant but it has significance in text processing applications.
Evenki itself is spelled eweŋki, despite Mongolian orthography usually prohibiting the letter combination ŋk.
The alphabetic principle does not underlie logographic writing systems like Chinese or syllabic writing systems such as Japanese kana.
Usage Chitumbuka orthography is used in religious texts, including translations of the Bible, newspapers and magazines published in Tumbuka.
The Heffernan family travelled a lot around Central Australia in Margaret's early childhood for family and ceremony and also for work.
The brackets stand for a function that maps a linguistic expression to its "denotation" or semantic value.
The Za'ba Spelling System, introduced in 1933, was the improvised version of the earlier orthography introduced by the British scholar, R J Wilkinson.
At Batchelor she collaborated with linguist Gavan Breen and, together, they developed the Arrernte orthography.
Encoding The letter turned comma is encoded at U+02BB ʻ MODIFIER LETTER TURNED COMMA, in the Spacing Modifier Letters Unicode block.
Nonbreaking hyphens The word segmentation rules of most text systems consider a hyphen to be a word boundary and a valid point at which to break a line when flowing text.
This is the case with English silent e, which has been claimed to modify preceding digraphs as well as preceding single vowel letters.
Since the 17th edition (2010), the second word after a hyphenated prefix in compound modifiers is capitalized (Mid-Year, Anti-Hero).
We find him at the head of a school near the Old Bailey, London, in 1590, in which year he published his Writing Schoolemaster, in three Parts.
When using title case, all words are capitalized, except for minor words (typically articles, short prepositions, and some conjunctions) that are not the first or last word of the title.
The circumflex (περισπωμένη, perispōménē, 'twisted around') – 'ᾶ' – marked high and falling pitch within one syllable.
The following verb endings are all pronounced the same: tu parles, il parle and ils parlent; there can also be confusion around the similar sounding je parlais and je parlai.
This included consistent representation of nasalized sounds, tonal markers in dictionaries and linguistic publications, and formalizing diacritics such as ŵ and b.
The Paleohispanic scripts are the ancient writing systems created in the Iberian Peninsula before the Latin alphabet became the dominant script.
For example, the Mandarin Chinese name for the capital of the People's Republic of China is Beijing using the commonly used contemporary system Hànyǔ Pīnyīn, but in the historically significant Wade–Giles system, it is written Pei-Ching.
The state of confusion was ended with the introduction of New Rumi Spelling in 1972, that finally united the different orthographies of the Malay-speaking world into a single system.
Further problems are caused by examples of confusion with English, such as connection (incorrect) and connexion (correct).
As a side effect, any inadvertent pressing of this key without pressing another key simultaneously has no effect.
Maharshal ruled that the Talmud only mandates the usual break for a parashah section, and Torah scrolls with extra letters are passul (unfit for ritual use).
From 1818 he became a member of the Teylers First Society and continued in that position until his death.
For example, when a document "Document1.doc" is opened in Word, a file called "~$cument1.doc" is created in the same directory.
Some other Semitic languages, including Northwest Semitic languages, are attested, including Aramaic and Hebrew.
More accurately, however, the Crown script isn't really a script of its own; it's more of an addition to existing scripts.
In the late 11th or early 12th century, Indian Zoroastrians (the Parsis) began translating Avestan or Middle Persian texts into Sanskrit and Gujarati.
In many books, mention of another part of the same book or mentions the work as a whole will be set in small caps.
In Bodo and Dogri written in Devanagari, it marks high tone and low-rising tone on short vowels, respectively.
Example of ideograms are the DOT pictograms, a collection of 50 symbols developed during the 1970s by the American Institute of Graphic Arts at the request of the United States Department of Transportation.
In English Philosophical, religious, and political terms A particular example of where capitonyms are prominent is in terminology relating to philosophy, religion, and politics.
In English In English writing, quotation marks are placed in pairs around a word or phrase to indicate: Quotation or direct speech: Carol said "Go ahead" when I asked her if the launcher was ready.
breabhaid "sortie", deabhaidh "haste, skirmish", feabhais "improvement" (gen), leabhair "books", meabhair "minds".
However, due to differing opinions among the participants, the Congress spelling did not produce any resolution on the use of both phonemes, and opened the issue for public interpretations.
Masonry (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word masonry (wall building) – are omitted.
On the other hand, the pratyāhāra haL is always used in the meaning "all consonants"—Pāṇini never uses pratyāhāras to refer to sets consisting of a single phoneme.
The double vertical line ( || ) is used to represent the salt bridge, which is used to maintain electrical neutrality within the electrochemical cell.
In some but not all cases, this is reflected in the orthography that allows double forms with and without ⟨p⟩: neumático ("tire"), psicología/sicología ("psychology"), pterodáctilo/terodáctilo ("pterodactyl").
There are several in Cyrillic alphabets, which for example uses five trigraphs and a tetragraph in the Kabardian alphabet: гъу /ʁʷ/, кӏу /kʷʼ/, къу /qʷʼ/, кхъ /q/, and хъу /χʷ/, and also a tetragraph кхъу /qʷ/.
Likewise, some languages using the Latin script use orthographic transcription for all foreign names: George Walker Bush is written Džordžs Volkers Bušs in Latvian (the ending -s marks the nominative case of masculine names, see Latvian declension) and Corc Volker Buş in Azerbaijani.
Malay affixes like di-, ke-, ter-, -kan, -an, and particles like -lah, -tah, -kah, and -nya are no longer hyphenated, but combined with the words.
Alehouses and brewers took down the signs saying μπιραρία biraria (from Italian birreria) and put up ζυθοπωλείον 'ale-house'.
Lowercase articles (a, an, the), coordinating conjunctions, and prepositions of three letters or fewer.
A double vertical bar associated with a colon can represent the repeat of a given section (||: A / / / :|| - play twice).
Still, some newspapers, including Die Zeit, the Neue Zürcher Zeitung, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, and the Süddeutsche Zeitung, created their own in-house orthography rules, while most other newspapers used approximately the rules set out by the DPA.
There is no universal convention on digit grouping, however, so both thousands grouping and no digit grouping can be found.
Not all silent letters are completely redundant: Silent letters can distinguish between homophones; e.g., in/inn; be/bee; lent/leant.
Its symbol in the International Phonetic Alphabet is ⟨ɳ⟩, formed by adding a rightward hook to the bottom of ⟨n⟩, the symbol for the corresponding alveolar consonant.
In Latin script, the double hyphen ⹀ is a punctuation mark that consists of two parallel hyphens (‐).
But Pāṇini uses only 41 (with a 42nd introduced by later grammarians, raṆ=r l) pratyāhāras in the Aṣṭādhyāyī.
In 1598, the English term point of interrogation is attested in an Italian–English dictionary by John Florio.
Phoenician/Greek labial letter Β was the source of southwestern be, southeastern ba; the use of Π is uncertain but may have been the source of bi.
Korean was formerly written partially with Chinese characters, but is now written in the fully alphabetic Hangul system, in which the letters are not written linearly, but arranged in syllabic blocks which resemble Chinese characters.
Orthographic depth hypothesis According to the orthographic depth hypothesis, shallow orthographies are more easily able to support a word recognition process that involves the language phonology.
The primary difference between the letter apostrophe and U+2019 is that the letter apostrophe U+02BC has the Unicode General Category "Letter, modifier" (Lm), while U+2019 has the category "Punctuation, Final quote" (Pf).
The Commission on the Filipino Language (Filipino: Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino) has published several standardized prescriptive orthographies for select languages of the Philippines.
It works for software localization, developing language software, localizing open source software, enriching online encyclopedias etc.
Small caps are used in running text as a form of emphasis that is less dominant than all uppercase text, and as a method of emphasis or distinctiveness for text alongside or instead of italics, or when boldface is inappropriate.
Especially when describing computer algorithms, it is common to define backslash so that a\b is equivalent to ⌊a/b⌋.
These were not true characters because such points belong to the C0 control codes range; therefore, these glyphs required a special way to be placed on the screen (see code page 437 for discussion).
Subsequent divergence After transcribing a word from one language to the script of another language: one or both languages may develop further.
Although the Royal Spanish Academy (1713) simplified Spanish spelling in pursuit of a phonetic standard beginning with the publication of its Orthographía española (1741), the tendency to reform writing came to a halt in 1815.
They occur in Irish orthography, and many of them can be analysed as a tetragraph followed by the vowels ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩ on either side to indicate that the neighbouring consonants are palatalized ("slender").
Diaeresis In Ancient Greek, the diaeresis (Greek: διαίρεσις or διαλυτικά, dialytiká, 'distinguishing') – ϊ – appears on the letters ι and υ to show that a pair of vowel letters is pronounced separately, rather than as a diphthong or as a digraph for a simple vowel.
Current languages in which the tilded ⟨n⟩ (⟨ñ⟩) is used for the palatal nasal consonant /ɲ/ include Tone In Vietnamese, a tilde over a vowel represents a creaky rising tone (ngã).
Austroasiatic languages Khmer script (for Khmer language) Khom script (for Bahnaric languages) Chữ Nôm (historical writing for Vietnamese language) Austronesian languages Most Austronesian languages use Latin script today.
Attorney General Richard Delonis to be "highly circumstantial", but the defense lawyers felt that it was strong enough that they had to put their clients on the stand, where they appeared evasive.
Bertha Alice Williams Graham Gifford (October 30, 1871 – August 20, 1951) was a farmwife in rural Catawissa, Missouri during the early 1900s who was accused of murdering three members of the local community and suspected in 15 additional deaths.
In spite of this, he was found guilty of five murders and sentenced to two life terms and a 23-year ban on practising as a nurse, with the prosecutors claiming that they would seek charges in other deaths.
Her nickname was "Goeie Mie" ("Good Mie"), bestowed because of her amiable, neighbourly assistance with babysitting and taking care of the poor, sick, and elderly in Leiden, where she herself lived.
To the investigators' surprise, Feltner recanted his testimony and claimed that he falsely confessed to the killings in order to bring attention to the appalling conditions and abuse that occurred at the nursing homes.
Ahmadi, along with Sarpās Mokhtār (Central Police chief), Mostafā Rāsekh, and Hosein Niroumand, was arrested and tried for crimes committed during Rezā Shāh's reign.
The trust was unable to comment due to confidentiality issues and there was no response from Leighton's lawyers.
Trial and sentence In June 2016, she was convicted and sentenced for four murders and attempted murder, according to section 237 of the Danish Penal Code.
In 2005 Bueno, working in a children's ward, began injecting babies and older children with overdoses of sedatives, causing them to stop breathing.
While most Austrians opposed capital punishment, many felt that the woman had not served enough time in prison for their crimes.
Arrest, trial and imprisonment After being fired from the hospital, Jackson found herself a new job at a local grocery store, where she was arrested on July 16, 2002, on four capital murder charges.
He fled while they went to get the proper paper work but was caught near Port Austin, 125 miles north of Detroit.
Investigation and arrest Cazzaniga was arrested on 26 November 2016, and charged with a total of 15 murders.
The court doctors found Fikáčková to be sane, but prone to depression, hysteria and uncontrollable outbursts of anger.
See also List of serial killers by country List of serial killers by number of victims == References ==
Prosecution and trial After a two-year investigation, Majors was arrested in December 1997 and charged with seven murders.
Angelo devised a plan where he would inject the patient with drugs, then rush into the room and attempt to "save" the patient so that he could be a hero to the patient's family.
In 1970, Velma Bullard married a widower, Jennings Barfield, but the union lasted less than a year, as Jennings died of heart complications on March 22, 1971.
His lawyer has been quoted as saying that Zelenka may have killed on an impulse to "test" doctors in Havlíčkův Brod, in the belief they were not good enough to discover the truth.
Sakala, 86, was admitted to the hospital for a persistent cold and “inexplicably” died the following day.
As well, her name was on the industry's lists as a representative of a real-estate agent named Asahi Shōji (朝日商事), whose address was also same as Kotobuki San'in, until the end of 1986.
Trial, imprisonment and aftermath During Hooijmaijers' murder trial, it was determined that he had an IQ of 93, considered too low to be the head nurse of the ward.
In 2005, 73% of deaths could be connected to Högel's work schedule.(subscription required) These findings were subsequently forwarded to the Oldenburg district attorney's office.
Pancuronium (brand name Pavulon) was used in six murders; this drug is used to stop a patient's respiration when they are about to be put on a medical ventilator.
See also Capital punishment in Texas List of death row inmates in the United States § Texas List of serial killers in the United States == References ==
The state police medical team noticed several patients' heart patterns widening around the time that Majors was on duty.
Capture and imprisonment Swanenburg was caught after she poisoned the Frankhuizen family in December 1883.
Investigation Between March and June 2022, unusually high infant mortality rates occurred at a neonatal nursing unit in the Ramón Castillo Neonatal Hospital in Córdoba, Argentina.
According to her book The Science of Fasting, she studied under Edward Hooker Dewey, MD, a well-known proponent of fasting.
The coils were inserted into the uterus, where they caused irritation leading to the expulsion of the fetus.
A fifth revised and amplified edition of Fasting for the Cure of Disease was published in 1927 under the title Scientific Fasting: The Ancient and Modern Key to Health.
She was exonerated in 2021, after confounding factors were found in a statistical reanalysis of the hospital's mortality data.
The Malmö Östra hospital murders were a Swedish case of serial senicide committed by the 18-year-old Anders Hansson at a hospital in Malmö between October 1978 and January 1979.
Toppan insisted upon her own sanity in court, claiming that she could not be insane if she knew what she was doing and knew that it was wrong, but nonetheless she was declared insane and committed.
However, she spent considerable time alone with patients, making up fake charts, medicating them to drift in and out of consciousness, and even getting into bed with them.
It was established with certainty that Swanenburg poisoned at least 102 people with arsenic between 1880 and 1883.
He received his medical degree in December 1921 and relocated to Villeneuve-sur-Yonne, where he received payment for his services both from the patients and from government medical assistance funds.
Toppan was recommended for the prestigious Massachusetts General Hospital in 1889; there, she claimed several more victims before being fired the following year.
She was remanded to await trial on $2 million bond, while the authorities continued to exhume and examine bodies for any further potential victims.
It was later found that epinephrine, which was not supposed to be in that ward, had somehow been substituted for vitamin E.
Harold Shipman, the British doctor dubbed "Doctor Death" whose inquiry suggested he was responsible for 250 deaths.
Personal life Bertha Alice Williams was born in Morse Mill, Missouri, the daughter of William Poindexter Williams and his wife Matilda, née Lee.
In a 2017 episode of the CBS Reality programme The Jury Room, in which 12 members of the public were asked to act as a 'jury' and review the evidence against Geen, the 'jury' unanimously concluded that Geen was guilty and not a victim of a miscarriage of justice.
Another of Geen's patients who had been admitted due to stomach pains was found to have midazolam and the paralytic vecuronium in his system, with no one having prescribed him these drugs.
After poisoning his victims, he would wait until they went into cardiac arrest and then come by and save them in front of his colleagues.
She was partially paralysed and was admitted to a hospital near Chester, where she received morphine injections for nine days from 27 June, prescribed by a Dr.
When he suspected his lover and roommate Carl Hoeweler of infidelity, he poisoned Hoeweler's food with arsenic so he would be too ill to leave their apartment.
Murders, arrest, and trial From 2017 to 2018, multiple patients experienced unexplained complications after heart surgeries while in recovery.
Andermatt was convicted on 28 January 2005, by the Lucerne Criminal Court for murder in 22 cases, attempted murder in three cases and unfinished murder in two cases with resignation and life imprisonment.
The Greater Manchester Police (GMP) were unable to find sufficient evidence to bring charges and closed the investigation on 17 April.
The sentencing judge, Justice David Latham, told Allitt that she was "a serious danger" to others and was unlikely ever to be considered safe enough to be released.
On the hospital's side, in spite of the allegations of misconduct dating back to June, the director said that he initially thought it should be dealt with at the hospital, but as things got out of hand, he had to resort to contacting the prefectural police.
Legal case 2010 raid Gosnell's clinic, the Women's Medical Society, was raided on February 18, 2010, under a search warrant by investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Pennsylvania State Police.
(Strosser, 1975) Investigators found that the nurse Filipina Narciso had been on duty in the relevant ward during every poisoning, and she was identified by a patient as the nurse who had injected something into his IV just before his breathing suddenly stopped.
See also List of French serial killers List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
Ahmad Ahmadi (Persian: احمد احمدی; 1885 – October 1944, known as Pezeshk Ahmadi meaning Physician Ahmadi) was an Iranian nurse.
She asked Jones to make it clear why the lid of a bottle of succinylcholine was punctured, and questioned her on whether she had placed a pharmacy order for a third bottle (Holland had requested two) of that same drug.
Some of the Resistance groups he spoke of had never existed, and there was no proof of any of his claimed exploits.
Shipman's motive for suicide was never established, though he reportedly told his probation officer that he was considering suicide to assure his wife's financial security after he was stripped of his National Health Service pension.
Letter also reportedly gave an inappropriate injection to a 22-year-old soldier with minor injuries from a fall; she lost consciousness but recovered.
Barfield's involvement in Christian ministry was extensive enough that an effort was made to obtain a commutation to life imprisonment.
Drug distribution trial In December 2013, Gosnell was convicted of illegally distributing painkillers.
On March 12, 2002, at age 32, Saldivar pleaded guilty to six counts of murder and received seven consecutive life sentences without the possibility of parole.
A former emergency medical technician, he was sentenced to death, and is currently trying to appeal said sentence.
She was held in custody at the West Virginia Regional Jail and Correctional Facility until her sentencing.
Crimes Bueno worked as a nurse in the Instituto de Puericultura Martagão Gesteira of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
February 15: The Kanagawa Prefectural Police arrest Imai, after he made statements incriminating himself.
They also said Davis had "enjoyed" carrying out the murders and "liked to kill people." On October 27, 2021, Davis was sentenced to death after about two hours of jury deliberation.
These victims were the following: Bernie "Berniece" Katherine Olsen, 69 - retired schoolteacher who had moved to Florida to be closer to her sister.
In a 2022 prison interview for a true crime docuseries, Davis also confessed to an additional murder of a 96-year-old woman in 2016.
He also would have known doctors were not on duty overnight at the hospitals, so they couldn't help the patients when they all collapsed during Norris's night shifts.
From the start, he insisted he was only "Dr Thomas Neill", not Thomas Neill Cream, and the newspapers usually referred to him as "Dr Neill" in their coverage of the proceedings.
This was discovered by the medical director of the garrison, who informed the Public Prosecutor's Office.
Investigators never looked into Cullen's past and the case was dropped nine months later for lack of evidence.
On 8 December 2023, authorities reportedly denied her transfer request from the Rampton Secure Hospital, a high-security psychiatric facility, to a mainstream prison.
Morrell had been dead for a few years, her body had been cremated, and she was 81 at the time of her death.
Murder of Paquita Gironès i Quintana Vila's last victim, Paquita Gironès i Quintana, a childless widow suffering from episodes of dementia, was the one who began to arouse suspicion in the facility.
The couple eventually broke up when Graham began dating another female nursing aide who also worked at Alpine Manor.
See also Benjamin Geen, British nurse who murdered two patients and committed grievous bodily harm to 15 others Lucy Letby, British nurse who murdered seven infants and attempted murder on another eight References External links Sentencing remarks of Mr Justice Openshaw
He told a television reporter prior to his trial, "I don't regret what I did", adding "I did it to those in irreversible comas and whose families were suffering." He was convicted on February 21, 2000, of the murders of four patients and sentenced to 76 years in prison.
The judge described Brega Massone as "cruel, malevolent and lacking the slightest sense of human pity".
The series is based on the book of the same name written by the Danish journalist Kristian Corfixen.
See also List of serial killers by country Baba Anujka The True Crime Podcast In Search of Lost Crime did an episode on Goeie Mie References Footnotes === Bibliography ===
See also Serial killers with health related professions List of serial killers by country Amelia Dyer Minnie Dean Notes References External links (in Japanese) Shōwa Mainichi (The Mainichi Newspapers Co., Ltd.) 日本ニュース 戦後編 第110号 [Nippon News Post-War No.110] (Motion picture) (in Japanese).
Eight days later, he was told that an autopsy by the hospital had found 13 times the normal concentration of the same heart drug in another dead baby.
Patrolmen saw a hearse illegally parked at Clark's office that night and found a corpse inside, ready for transport.
Early life Marie Fikáčková (née Schmidl) was born on 9 September 1936 in Sušice, Czechoslovakia, into a Sudeten German family.
Devlin commented that the defence must have known this would cause prejudice against Adams, but the danger that Adams would be loquacious, or not able to keep to the point, would likely aid the prosecution.
Nurses at Horton Hospital later observed that there were notable similarities between this storyline and the crimes of Geen.
She was also known as "The Ogress of Colonia Roma," "The Female Ripper of Colonia Roma" and "The Human Crusher of Little Angels." Early life She was born in 1890 in Cerro Azul, Veracruz to a mother who was not affectionate towards her.
In August 1979, Hansson was sentenced to closed psychiatric treatment, where he remained until 1994.
Following his arrest, Angelo confessed to having poisoned other patients with pancuronium and Suxamethonium chloride, both of which are paralytic agents used in anesthesia.
It delivered a guilty verdict against Burke for the murder of Docherty; the same charge against McDougal they found not proven.
Trial and execution After being released from eight years of exile in 1941, Iran Teymourtash travelled to Iraq and succeeded in arranging for Ahmadi's extradition to Iran on charges that he had killed her father, Abdolhossein Teymourtash.
The television series American Horror Story tells a highly fictionalized version of their story in its sixth season, Roanoke.
Investigators criticized the hospital for meeting them with "a wall of silence" as they attempted to look into a suspicious 1988 death.
Life Andermatt worked as a nurse in various retirement homes in central Switzerland, including the Eichhof retirement home in Lucerne.
Kristen Heather Gilbert (née Strickland; born November 13, 1967) is an American serial killer and former nurse who was convicted of four murders and two attempted murders of patients admitted to the Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) in Northampton, Massachusetts.
Such notions are extremely unlikely and contradict all known evidence given by the Illinois authorities, newspapers of the time, Cream's solicitors, Cream's family, and Cream himself.
As a nurse in hospital Havlíčkův Brod, 100 kilometres (62 mi) southeast of Prague, he murdered seven patients by lethal injection, and attempted to kill 10 others between May and December, 2006.
Curriculum update and developer survey in 2016 The curriculum was updated in January 2016 to rely less on outside material, remove the unconventional section names, and switch focus from AngularJS to React.js as the front-end library of choice.
Its editorial office is based in San Francisco, California, with its business headquarters located in New York City.
In March 2022, Ant Group, an affiliate of Alibaba Group which held 15.1% in 36Kr sold its entire stake in the company.
It was named after the United Airlines audio channel that lets airplane passengers listen to the cockpit's conversations unhindered; the site published conversations among Microsoft developers, rather than its chairman Bill Gates, who had historically been the "face" of Microsoft.
Silicon Republic is an Irish technology news website, founded by Ann O'Dea and Darren McAuliffe in 2001.
It was further developed by the same people who developed Acorn Arcade, the contents of which were incorporated in 2006.
The new location allows IPVM to conduct on-site video surveillance hardware and software tests on products from a variety of leading video surveillance manufacturers.
Tracklib is a Swedish music service that allows producers to sample original music and clear the samples for official use.
Criticism On 12 October 2010 Martin Robbins of The Guardian accused The Register of misunderstanding climate science and misrepresenting a paper from the journal Nature in a manner that deliberately minimized the climate impact of human emissions.
In 1997 the author registered the domain gabrieltorres.com with the website, changing its name to "Hardware Site." The final name, Clube do Hardware, was adopted in 1999.
In 2007, the Association of Online Publishers awarded ZDNet UK under the Business Website category for its contribution to innovation in incorporating Web 2.0 and community features effectively on its site.
In June 2010, Alcatel-Lucent acquired ProgrammableWeb as part of a move by the company to align themselves closer to the developer community.
Conformance testing for those standards is within the purview of Acid3, an automated test published by Ian Hickson in 2008.
On March 24, 2016, the site was censored in South Korea by the Korea Communications Standards Commission (KCSC) due to alleged violations of South Korea's National Security Act, a law which bans "praising, sympathizing or cooperating with North Korea".
HTML5Test.com evaluates the browser's support for Web storage, the W3C Geolocation API, HTML5-specific HTML elements (including the canvas element), and other features.
A manga adaptation by Rize Shinba started serialization in 2007 and was published by Enterbrain under their B's LOG Comic imprint.
Laneros (often stylized as LANeros) is a digital community of over 390,000 members worldwide, mostly of Hispanic countries, started in 1999.
In February 2025, SuperSaf partnered with OnePlus for the launch of the OnePlus Watch 3 where he interviewed British former professional boxer David Haye.
The name comes from the so-called LAN (Local area network) parties, which were where the founders gathered to play videogames 20 years ago, and would translate to English as "LANners".
AOL eventually conceded that Pro Populi could continue to use the dataset but adopted the CC BY-NC license for future revisions.
since it was launched is to provide the general public with a means to check if their private information has been leaked or compromised.
We are no longer pursuing a relationship with him or his distribution channels." The sexual assault alligations against Takei were later rescinded.
In practice it turned out to be used as a search engine for security exploits, software for hacking, cracking and different keygenerators and software cracks.
The site developed a reputation for breaking tech industry news but ultimately did not reach the level of popularity it expected, with just 1.5 million regular monthly visitors.
The publication was subsequently acquired by TechMediaNetwork in 2013; in 2014, TechMediaNetwork changed its name to Purch, which was then acquired by Future in 2018.
On March 2, 2026, RTINGS announced that their full test results and in-depth product analysis, which were previously free, became exclusive to paid subscribers.
John Gruber (born 1973) is a technology blogger, UI designer, and creator of the Markdown markup language.
In 2004, rather than deleting his content, he posted a short entry entitled "Every Exit" in which he said, "It’s time for me to find a new hobby.
A few weeks after the site's closure Williams posted articles on Micro Men, the television drama about the rivalry between Acorn and Sinclair in the 1980s.
Some findings include "only 18 percent said they’d like to work for a startup" and "thirty-eight percent don’t plan on specializing in UX, backend stuff or other specific disciplines".
Phandroid broke numerous Android-related exclusive stories over the years, including an early look at Android 2.3 Gingerbread.
After five years, it was replaced by Future Human in 2020, taking place at the Trinity Business School building.
Drobe (also referred to as Drobe Launchpad) was a computing news web site with a focus on the RISC OS operating system.
To become a Campus Expert, applicants must complete an online training course with multiple modules to develop community leadership skills.
In November 2013, AOL entered into a dispute with startup Pro Populi over the company's use of the entire Crunchbase dataset in apps that Pro Populi developed, despite having distributed the data under the Creative Commons CC-BY attribution license.
Tom's Guide Tom's Guide (formerly known as GearDigest) is an online publication owned by Future that focuses on technology, with editorial teams in the US, UK and Australia.
Kaspersky denied the allegations, reporting that the software had detected Equation Group malware samples which it uploaded to its servers for analysis in its normal course of operation.
Overview Mobile Magazine is a registered trademark with the USPTO and CIPO, in the USA and Canada respectively, and owned by Navneet Narula.
See also Hacker (computer security) Hacktivism References External links Official Website CriticalSecurity.Net at the Wayback Machine (archived 2007-10-29) [[Category:Hacking (computer security baypas )]]
That same year, when Charter Communications began sending letters to high-speed internet customers regarding a new website tracking policy, reports of the letters first appeared on DSLReports.
Until 21 May 2001, Attrition maintained the largest mirror of defaced (or cracked) websites available on the World Wide Web.
In 2010, Oskar Krawczyk joined the project as a developer, and the platform was made freely available under the name of JSFiddle.
The entire site was realigned as part of a CNET Networks B2B portfolio that included CNET News.com, Builder.com and TechRepublic.
This includes keeping public repositories services, including those for open source projects, available and accessible to support personal communications involving developers in sanctioned regions.
The controversy that ensued eventually led to Arrington's departure, and other writers, including Paul Carr and Sarah Lacy, moved to another technology investment media company.
Like other wiki based websites, the content can be navigated in multiple ways, using tags to indicate themes.
SSD Endurance Experiment In 2013, Tech Report started an experiment using several SSD drives to determine how many writes they can endure.
References External links Official website Archive Offline reading (print books and e-books) Live data on the power supply, power demand, and energy storage of the website Sister blog
Site organization The website is organized into portals that are groups of articles arranged by topics.
In July 2013, Bestofmedia Group was acquired by TechMediaNetwork, Inc., which changed its name to Purch in April 2014.
Some groups are concerned that the workers who do the actual recycling are exposed to toxins that can be harmful to their health.
The Internet Storm Center (ISC) is a program of the SANS Technology Institute, a branch of the SANS Institute which monitors the level of malicious activity on the Internet, particularly with regard to large-scale infrastructure events.
The wiki had been used to provide ad hoc feedback to Microsoft teams, such as the Internet Explorer team.
Through the following years it was supported by advertising and sponsorship, including by Flextronics.
Techreport (formerly stylized "The Tech Report") was a technology news and hardware review site that was established in 1999 with the first article being published on October 30th, 1999.
Realm Games Originally launched as Machinima Realm in 2010, Realm Games was one of Machinima's key primarily gameplay-focused franchises.
Scoops Sony laptop battery scandal In 2006 The Inquirer reported laptop battery problems that affected Dell, Sony and Apple as of September 2006, with rumours of problems at Toshiba and Lenovo.
Governance The Ubuntu Forums are governed by a moderation team made up of volunteers, often referred to as The Forum Staff.
GeekWire founders John Cook and Todd Bishop were former technology reporters at the Seattle Post-Intelligencer and the Puget Sound Business Journal.
In 2010 The Register supported the successful launch of the Paper Aircraft Released into Space, a project they announced in 2009 that released a paper plane in the extreme upper atmosphere.
Another Dutch tech website Tweakers.net was founded in 1998 after Femme Taken concluded that the moderation on Webwereld was too strict.
On November 6, 2007, Wired.com published an article titled "Android Already Has Phandroids." Due to the Wired article and growing interest in Android, the site saw massive growth overnight.
Controversies In July 2019, UserBenchmark updated how it calculates the effective speed index on its website's CPU hardware rankings, drastically affecting the ranking positions of CPUs, which penalized AMD processors.
Data breach reports In May 2024, the International Baccalaureate organizations faced allegations over supposed breaches in their IT infrastructure after an incident of examination leaks.
UserBenchmark is a computer benchmarking website that provides users with performance scores for various hardware components.
GeekWire is an American technology news website that covers startups and established technology companies.
It is particularly interested in the BRICS, as well as digital innovation, viral online marketing campaigns and general tech trends.
North Korea Tech has often been cited by international media, government reports, and academics researching North Korea.
In 2019, the sites underwent a redesign, with the Memeburn, Gearburn, and Motorburn sites operating under the Memeburn.com domain.
When Futurism was sold to Singularity University, the Gravity Blanket was spun off into its own company, Gravity Brand Holdings LLC.
Services Projects on GitHub can be accessed and managed using the standard Git command-line interface; all standard Git commands work with it.
Launched in 2004 when Microsoft's corporate reputation was at a low, Channel 9 was the company's first blog.
Editorial expansion In 2011, Memeburn expanded to launch Gearburn.com, a sister site which is focused on gadget and game reviews and news and Motorburn.com, which focuses on car news.
PortableApps.com Launcher The PortableApps.com Launcher (also known as PAL) is used to make applications portable by handling path redirection, environment variable changes, file and directory movement, configuration file path updates.
My Girlfriend's a Geek (腐女子彼女, Fujoshi Kanojo) is a Japanese light novel series in two volumes by Pentabu based on a popular blog of the same name with 11 million page views.
Most news published daily are short summaries of articles published elsewhere, and are free to all viewers.
Other organisations that have supported its content include: the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Wellcome, the European Journalism Centre, Adaptation Research Alliance, and Carnegie Corporation of New York.
Based in Brazil, Clube do Hardware (meaning "Hardware Club" in Brazilian Portuguese) is one of the largest websites about computers in South America and also one of the biggest in the world.
In May 2019, Recode was integrated into Vox Media's flagship website, Vox, becoming the column Recode by Vox.
The parent company of the site, Habr Blockchain Publishing, developed a group of websites ("Habr Q&A" qna.habr.com, "Habr Career" career.habr.com, "Habr Freelance" freelance.habr.com after they developed habrahabr.ru).
The GMCI 30 index represents a selection of the top 30 cryptocurrencies and is available on crypto exchanges Bitget and Woo X, as well as decentralized exchange Vertex.
The paper reported that Gamecenter "seem[ed] to be thriving" amid the dot-com crash, with its revenue distributed across online advertising and an affiliate sales program with CNET's Game Shopper website, launched in late 1999.
Bishop and Cook joined the Puget Sound Business Journal to create TechFlash in September 2008, leaving to start GeekWire on March 7, 2011.
At this time, it broadened its remit to also cover alternative platforms and new technologies, while still keeping abreast of the RISC OS scene.
At the option of the provider, innovations may be acquired without special terms or may require acceptance of an electronic license, and may be without charge or fee-based.
In 2015, Fred Lambert joined Electrek as a contributing writer, later having been promoted over the years and becoming editor-in-chief.
The investigation revealed a high level of sophistication in the operation and the use of two different ASUS digital certificates to sign the malware.
36Kr (Chinese: 36氪; pinyin: 36 Kè) is a publicly listed Chinese media company that focuses on technology and financial news.
Differences Unlike a number of other software directory websites, the software is not arranged into categories, but each individual piece of software has its own list of alternatives.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Clube do Hardware publishes tutorials, articles, reviews, and news about computer hardware and has a very active forum where users can discuss technology topics.
senior vice president (SVP) of worldwide marketing Phil Schiller appeared as a guest on the live episode of The Talk Show during WWDC 2015 in San Francisco.
Since that time the ISC has expanded its monitoring operations; its website cites a figure of over twenty million "intrusion detection log entries" per day.
Xconomy had webinar and podcasting services (Xconomy Xpertise) and formed a custom research and publishing arm (Xconomy Insight).
The site aims to be a reference guide for the IT industry and includes reviews, ratings, articles, and detailed product feature comparisons.
The first issue covered interactive games, cell-phone hacking, digital special effects, digital libraries, an interview with Camille Paglia by Stewart Brand, digital surveillance, Bruce Sterling's cover story about military simulations, and Karl Taro Greenfeld’s story on Japanese otaku.
Style sheets contributed by graphic designers from around the world are used to change the visual presentation of a single HTML file, producing hundreds of different designs.
Three years later on April 13, 2013, MuleSoft announced the acquisition of ProgrammableWeb to "become the go-to destination for APIs and Integration”.
A "Tech Update" section was created to serve as a directory of proprietary IT research (dubbed "IT Priorities"), and a new "Power Center" was implemented to prominently feature webcasts, white papers and case studies from partners.
The original Xconomy site focused on the city of Boston before opening another outlet in Seattle in 2008 and expanding to other key technology centers of activity afterward.
Employees get to choose any plan they want and flexible design criteria allows employers to customize their ICHRAs to suit their needs.
Grammatical usage In this sense, it may appear, separated by a comma, following the noun it modifies, e.g., "earned two million dollars, net".
fiscal policy and tax code." The profits earned abroad and retained there are subject to a foreign exchange risk, besides other financial risks.
However, as OFCs developed in the 1980s, it became apparent that OFC banks were not just recycling Eurodollars from foreign corporate transactions, but also capital from tax avoidance (e.g.
Other jurisdictions treat distributions as distributions of earnings taxable to shareholders if earnings are available to be distributed, but do not prohibit distributions in excess of earnings.
Federal tax law permits the owners of the entity to agree how the income of the entity will be allocated among them, but requires that this allocation reflect the economic reality of their business arrangement, as tested under complicated rules.
Provisions of the bill This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.
Majority opinion Justice Pitney, in the majority opinion, stated that the case raised three questions.
In particular, Buehler reasoned that the UP tax would hit small business especially hard, as smaller businesses have fewer options in raising capital than large ones, usually by keeping a percentage of their profits for re-investment back into the business.
" The Australian measures focus on arrangements that attempt to avoid establishing a permanent establishment presence in Australia.
In winter 2006/2007, in response to criticism about oil imports from Venezuela, that country being under the leadership of Hugo Chávez, the founder and president of Boston's Citizens Energy Corporation, Joseph P.
The Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 503, which is "the largest union representing Oregon state government workers", gave almost $3 million to the pro-Measure 97 campaign.
Country-by-Country Reporting (CbCR, with the related report pertaining to a particular entity referred to as a Country-by-Country report or CbC report) is an international initiative pioneered by the OECD.
The bill was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress.
"[D]ifferences between tax and commercial accounting rules arise where the tax instrument is employed to pursue economic, social and cultural purposes," write Ault and Arnold.
In the United Kingdom tax system, and more specifically for UK corporation tax purposes, PCTCT stands for "profits chargeable to corporation tax," a UK term for taxable profits.
At its crudest level, the Offshore-Intensity Ratio explains why the countries at the top of global GDP per capita lists are mostly tax havens.
Without the License Agreement, the appellant would not have been in a position to use the ranitidine patent and the Zantac trademark.
Hugh Ault and Brian Arnold, in their book "Comparative Income Taxation", have observed that in The Netherlands, where financial accounting is known as "commercial accounting", there is a substantial divergence between those and the tax books.
Note that dividends paid out by a cooperative corporation which are not attributable to business done with patrons pursuant to the above definition are still subject to taxation at the corporate level (and the shareholder level).
By contrast, if there is no commercial coherence, the fact that activities may be conducted within a limited geographic area should not result in that area being considered a fixed place of business.
See also Center for American Progress Center on Budget and Policy Priorities Economic Policy Institute Tax Foundation Tax Policy Center References External links Official website "Who Pays" report "Offshore Shell Games" (2017)
Generally, in tax free formations the tax attributes of assets and liabilities are transferred to the new corporation along with such assets and liabilities.
Any person the employee could have claimed as a dependent on the employee's return unless: The person filed a joint return, The person had gross income of $3,400 or more, or The employee or spouse, if filing jointly, could be claimed as a dependent on someone else's tax return.
The Hidden Wealth of Nations: The Scourge of Tax Havens is a 2013 book by French economist Gabriel Zucman, which popularized the concept of both the tax haven and corporate tax haven.
Nonetheless, a 2010 Tulane Law Review article lent lukewarm support to President Obama's Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, which is a "bank tax" similar to the FSC.
JCT has determined that the bill contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.
The CRO filings showed these vulture funds were using orphaned Section 110 SPVs, structured by IFSC–based law firms (e.g.
Regardless however, on 7 September, the Irish minority Government, with material opposition support, rejected the EU Commission's ruling on Apple, and the payment of €13 billion, plus penalties, to the Irish State.
In September 2009, the commission recommended that the Irish State provide capital allowances for the acquisition of intangible assets, creating the CAIA BEPS tool.
This is very likely where the country (such as Canada) does not recognize LLCs as an authorized form of business entity in that country.
Profit may be broken down further into pre-taxed or gross profit and profit after taxes or net profit.
In addition, the SCC's guidance to the TCC strongly suggests that Canadian courts must keep an eye on the bigger picture in making their transfer pricing determinations, and the determination of arm's-length pricing is quite distinct from the narrower concept of fair market value.
Repeal Rio Tinto and its partner Ivanhoe Mines made the scrapping of the tax a precondition to their signing an agreement to establish the Oyu Tolgoi mine, a major copper-gold mining project in the Gobi Desert.
If listed property is not used for a qualified business, the accelerated depreciation deductions will be recaptured under 280F(b)(2).
If a corporation meets the foregoing requirements and wishes to be taxed under Subchapter S, its shareholders may file Form 2553: "Election by a Small Business Corporation" with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
No exemptions In certain cases, it may be advantageous to reject the exemption for your company such as allowing you to offset a loss.
Quarterly estimated taxes must be paid by the individual to avoid tax penalties, even if this income is "phantom income".
Under the OECD rules, the information is to be exchanged between the tax authorities of the exchanging countries.
Since the enactment of 2010's Corporation Tax Act (CTA 2010) in March 2010, the profits of a company of an accounting period on which corporation tax is chargeable has been defined as the company's "taxable total profits" of the period (section 4(2) CTA 2010), which is frequently abbreviated to TTP.
Every organisation operating a Pay As You Earn (PAYE) scheme is allocated an ERN, a unique set of letters and numbers used by HMRC (and others) to identify each employer, consisting of a three-digit HMRC office number and a reference number unique to each business.
The Atlantic reviews said that Zucman's "main achievement" was to quantify the theft: "$200 billion in state revenues lost through private individuals' use of tax havens, plus another $130 billion in losses created by U.S.
Another poll conducted by icitizen during September 2–7 found that 59 percent of 610 respondents were in favor of the measure passing, with 21 percent opposed.
Additional series can be formed or dissolved without any public filing by simply amending the Series' "limited liability company agreement" (equivalent to an operating agreement for other LLCs).
Actual distributions of funds, as opposed to distributive shares, typically have no effect on shareholder tax liability.
When repatriated, the corporations are entitled to a foreign tax credit for taxes (if any) paid in foreign countries.
Depreciable property that is not eligible for a section 179 deduction is still deductible over a number of years through MACRS depreciation according to sections 167 and 168.
Instead, the owners of the entity pay tax on their "distributive share" of the entity's taxable income, even if no funds are distributed by the partnership to the owners.
Additionally, each province or territory operates its own corporate tax system, with varying treatment for small businesses.
Dhammika Dharmapala Double Irish, Single Malt, and CAIA, BEPS tools References External links NBER Profile: Mihir A.
The Diverted Profits Tax Act 2017 imposes a 40 percent tax on avoidance schemes entered into by significant global entities (SGEs), which are defined as global parent entities with an annual global income of A$1 billion or more.
The UN Model Tax Convention, which gives greater consideration to developing countries, adds what is known as a service PE in article 5(3)b.
Etymology The word net, in this sense, originally derives from the Latin nitere (to shine) and nitidus (elegant, trim), and more recently from the French net (sharp, neat, clean).
However, in almost all jurisdictions there are certain types of regulated entity which require a certain amount, or a certain proportion, of paid-up share capital to be licensed to trade.
In the previous example, the taxpayer's recomputed basis would be $100,000 because you add to the adjusted basis the amounts the taxpayer depreciated.
The Central collection agency (CCA) uses a method of depreciation and the undepreciated value which is the undepreciated capital cost.
ContractorUK has covered news on the Personal Service Companies Committee, including a speech made by Baroness Noakes in the House of Lords in which she referenced ContractorUK.
Wear and tear is a form of depreciation, which is assumed to occur even when an item is used competently and with care and proper maintenance.
See Big Four (audit firms) PwC, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, and KPMG Concentration of large firms issuing credit opinions has also been raised as a systemic risk.
Action 1: Address the Digital Economy The BEPS project recommends avoiding new direct taxes on digital activity, and expects other Actions to be generalized to tackle the digital economy as well.
During the year 1909, the firm had had gross sales of $284,682.85 and costs of $190,939.42, resulting in a profit of $93,743.43.
As L'Heureux-Dubé J had stated in Hickman Motors Ltd v Canada, the taxpayer's burden is to "'demolish' the exact assumptions made by the Minister but no more".
Facing widespread and fierce criticism, the tax was reduced to 2½ percent in 1938 and completely eliminated in 1939.
During the state's general election held in November 2016, Oregon voters defeated the measure 59 percent (opposed) to 41 percent.
If the request is still denied, a taxpayer could request a judicial review of the decision in Federal Court (not the Tax Court).
The use by Ireland of complex data protection and data privacy laws, such as contained in the 1993 Statistics Act, to protect Irish BEPS tools and Irish corporate tax avoidance schemes is documented by tax justice groups.
Exceptions apply to treat certain distributions as made in exchange for stock rather than as dividends.
It is used in a legal context for such areas as warranty contracts from manufacturers, which usually stipulate that damage from wear and tear will not be covered.
The ERN is alphanumeric (consisting of both letters and numbers) in the format of 123/XX12345, or 123/X12345 (prior to 2001), where the first three characters represent the Tax Office catchment area and the last six or seven characters represent a unique organisation or employer.
Computing depreciation recapture When a taxpayer sells an asset for a gain after taking deductions for depreciation, depreciation recapture is used to tax the gain.
Under the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project being developed by the OECD and endorsed by the G20, a new nexus based on significant digital presence is being considered under Action 1, aimed at Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy.
These new facilities were introduced by the agency in 2016 as part of an effort to modernize the Agency's services.
The property value of a US company assessable to state tax was thus assessed by examining the proportion of railway lines within the state, and then taking that proportion of the company's total value (including the movable property) as the portion of value located within a certain state.
According to PwC, the full report by the European Commission contained very detailed analysis of the transfer pricing methodology used by Apple.
Basic rules An accounting period begins when: the company comes within the charge to corporation tax.
A participation exemption may apply to qualifying shareholdings in overseas companies, domestic companies, or both.
There was opposition to the rate being established by Mongolbank by government appointment, and a claim that it was against the Constitution of Mongolia.
Section 280F is a policy that makes the Internal Revenue Code more accurate by allowing a taxpayer to report their business use on an asset they may also need for some personal reasons.
While some provinces adhere to the business limit for the lower rate set by the federal governments, other provinces choose to maintain their own rate.
IRS increases mileage rate for remainder of 2022 IRS Mileage Rate 2024 IRS Mileage Rate 2025 IRS Mileage Rate 2026
states and territories except Nebraska allow third-party diminished value claims filed with the at-fault insurance.
In general, the GSA rate matches the annual rate set by the IRS, although by law the government employee reimbursement rate cannot exceed the mileage rate set by the IRS for business deductions.
The second question raised was whether or not proceeds from mining activities constituted "income" by the definition of the act.
History The government announced in the March 2012 Budget that it would introduce corporation tax reliefs from April 2013 for the video game, animation and high-end television industries, subject to State aid approval and following consultation.
Arrangements (medical services, dental services, co-pays, coinsurance, deductibles, participation) may vary from plan to plan, and an employer may have multiple plans in place, allowing much flexibility.
Types of tax accounting methods Proper accounting methods are described in section 446(c)(1) to (4) which permits cash, accrual, and other methods approved by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) including combinations.
New Irish BEPS tools replaced it: the Single Malt scheme (used by Microsoft and Allergan), and the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets ("CAIA") scheme, (used by Apple in its Q1 2015 restructuring).
Furthermore, the list does not take into account whether Portugal has in place a double taxation agreement with the blacklisted territory.
Under the law, the taxpayer for each year is generally entitled to deduct either the actual expense amount, or an amount computed using the standard mileage rate, whichever is greater.
The orphaning process will ensure the relevant trust that "owns" the SPV equity is Irish domiciled, thus satisfying the incorporation test.
A corporation may qualify as a C corporation without regard to any limit on the number of shareholders, foreign or domestic.
However, in some jurisdictions such as Connecticut, case law has determined that owners were not required to plead facts sufficient to pierce the corporate veil and LLC members can be personally liable for operation of the LLC (see, for example, the case of Sturm v.
system, related party interest expense in excess of 50% of cash flow is generally not currently deductible, with the excess potentially deductible in future years.
Additional adjustments apply in the case of intra-group reorganizations or acquisition of the common parent, and upon entry to or exit from the group by a member.
By the week before Election Day, combined fundraising for the two campaigns had reached $40 million.
In most cases, the provinces and territories have two rates of income tax—the lower rate and the higher rate.
History The new approach began in 2000 with the launch of the R&D Tax Credit for small and medium enterprises.
In self-assessment systems, payment of taxes is generally due no later than the normal due date, though advance tax payments may be required.
Approximately the largest 2% of pass-through businesses represent 40% of pass-through income and today are taxed at 39.6%, the top individual rate." See also Sole proprietorship == References ==
This reduction of taxation generally has some limitations as to the nature of income on which tax is reduced and the minimum level and period of ownership of the subsidiary.
In 2017, government advanced plans to introduce the voluntary study of Islamic religious education in an after-school program in a number of state primary- and secondary-level schools, although the government had yet to release a specific timeline for the program's implementation.
However, the predominantly Catholic Gelre saw little point in it; it did not want to depend on intransigent, Calvinist Holland for a possible reconciliation with the king.
The Constitution, in Articles 103-106, provides that matters concerning the personal status of Muslims are the exclusive jurisdiction of Shari'a courts which apply Shari'a law in their proceedings.
As a treaty, not a declaration, is legally binding, the signing of the human rights declaration is a public pledge of commitment.
This coexistence has been marred by isolated incidents and attacks on religious places by Islamic extremist groups, Hindu extremist groups and a Buddhist extremist group.
Foreign clergy may work in the country, but for the last three decades, the government has limited the issuance of temporary work permits.
1), the Mutiny Act 1689, the Toleration Act 1688, and later the Act of Settlement 1701 (12 & 13 Will.
Traditional religious communities all had extensive claims for restitution of property that the communist government of the former Yugoslavia nationalized after World War II.
The dispute was brought in front of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) which ruled in 2004 in favor of the Metropolis of Bessarabia as the "spiritual, canonical, historical successor of the Metropolitan See of Bessarabia which functioned till 1944, including".
On the way he visited Lourdes where he celebrated Mass and visited the grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes.
State's power to regulate repressive and unlawful religious practices justified, besides having scriptural basis.
When there have been natural disasters, or to commemorate national events, Christians and Muslims organized ecumenical ceremonies to pray and promote a spirit of tolerance and peace.
The Catholic Church has canonized several martyrs of the Spanish Civil War and beatified hundreds more.
At the time, the text was very poorly received among both Protestant and Catholic communities, with Protestants accusing him of treason and Catholics of heresy.
Article 3 mandated secular education in schools, prohibiting the Church from participating in primary and secondary education.
The state-sponsored television station, CRTV, carries two hours of Christian programming on Sunday mornings, normally an hour of Catholic Mass and an hour of a Protestant service.
The Act referred to a decree of 27 June 1909, which laid down the wording of the oath to be taken by members of the parliament as follows: "I, ..., swear on the Holy Gospels ...".
The work argues over the definition and nature of heresy and free thought, and Milton tries to convince the new English Parliament to further his cause.
Memoirs of the English, Irish, and Scottish Catholics (London, 1822); Milner, Supplementary Memoirs of English Catholics (London, 1820), written to correct Butler's work; Wyse, Hist.
The Singaporean government claimed that this was justified because members of Jehovah's Witnesses refuse to perform military service (which is obligatory for all male citizens), salute the flag, or swear oaths of allegiance to the state.
However, other constitutional provisions for the integrity of the secular state restrict these rights.
He published Politicorum libri sex in 1589 which argued in favor of the persecution of religious dissenters.
The laws of North Macedonia prohibit religious discrimination and provide for equal rights for all citizens regardless religious belief, and people generally have the freedom to practice their religion without disruption.
Propaganda — After being taught to read but not weigh evidence and form original opinions, children become adults who are then subjected to dubious or obviously false claims for the rest of their lives.
Restrictions on minority religions The law prohibits churches from erecting bell towers or displaying crosses or other religious symbols on the outside of their premises, although they may place signs on their properties indicating they are churches.
In re: Waqf (Amendment) Act 2025 (2025 INSC 1116), is a collection of petitions heard by the Supreme Court of India considering the constitutional validity of the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025.
The revolution was accompanied by extreme levels of violence by African revolutionaries against Arabs and South Asians, who were predominantly Muslim or Hindu and were identified with the ruling class of the Sultanate of Zanzibar.
If a person violates the regulations, and is convicted of an infraction, a fine between $100 and $500 is issued to the fortune-teller.
The first steering committee of the IPPFoRB was composed of Baroness Elizabeth Berridge (UK House of Lords), David Anderson (House of Commons of Canada), Abid Raja (Parliament of Norway), Aykan Erdemir (Grand National Assembly of Turkey), Leonardo Quintao (National Congress of Brazil).
The only ramification for nonregistration is the forfeiture of the tax advantages that are available for registered religious organizations.
In accordance with article 2 of the Constitution, which provides for a secular state, public schools are not authorized to provide religious instruction.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice, and prominent societal leaders took positive steps to promote religious freedom.
Protests The controversy led to widespread demonstrations in Catholic regions, including Brittany, Normandy, the Vendée, and the Massif Central.
In San Francisco, fortune-telling is regulated as to "thoroughly investigate fraud and deception,” and protect those deemed vulnerable to fraud.
The Republic of Colombia has an area of 439,735 square miles (1,138,908 square kilometers) and its population is estimated at 46 million.
Inocencio Junquera Huergo y Sánchez (1831 in Gran Canaria – 1911 in Santillana del Mar) was a civil and political governor of Cebu, Philippines, from 1893 – 1895.
The Patent of Toleration (German: Toleranzpatent, Hungarian: Türelmi rendelet) was an edict of toleration issued on 13 October 1781 by the Habsburg emperor Joseph II.
On the evening of August 18, ten senior ARVN generals met to discuss the situation and decided that martial law needed to be imposed.
The Inventory Controversy (Querelle des Inventaires) refers to a series of incidents across France following the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State.
Nearly all detainees were charged with espionage for the United States (a crime under Article 7 of the Decree of 13 June 1946 on Offenses Particularly Dangerous During the Reconstruction of the State).
In the summer of 1579, Amersfoort from the province of Utrecht also joined, together with Ypres, Antwerp, Breda and Brussels.
Legacy The pamphlet is considered one of the earliest texts defending religious freedom in the modern era.
Students may apply to be absent in order to celebrate certain religious holidays, such as Eid or Passover, but there is no celebration or observance of these holidays in public schools.
The Hindu community is almost exclusively Indian, while Buddhists include South, Southeast, and East Asians.
Foreigners are predominantly from South and Southeast Asia, although there are substantial numbers from the Middle East, Europe, Central Asia, the Commonwealth of Independent States, North America and South America.
The court ruled that fortune-telling was protected free speech under the First Amendment of the US Constitution.
Improvements and positive developments in respect for religious freedom The MOI promotes interfaith understanding among religious groups by sponsoring symposiums or helping to defray the expenses of privately sponsored symposiums on religious issues.
During 2022, the National Christian Evangelical Alliance of Sri Lanka (NCEASL), noted that Christian groups reported that police were complicit in harassing religious minorities and their places of worship, often siding with the local majority religious community.
Before 2004, legislation barred religious schools and theological institutes from applying for MOE accreditation, and the MOE did not recognize university-level degrees granted by these types of schools.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
History Early modern embassy staff, who commonly lived in the ambassadorial residence, were permitted to have in-house chapels and chaplains, especially where, in the wake of the Reformation, they lived in a country that banned their religious faith.
Restrictions on religious freedom Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
Your baptism must be a shield; your faith a helmet; your charity a lance; your patience a suit of armour.
They gathered at Warsaw to prevent any separatists from acting and to maintain the existing legal order.
Education — Instead of public education being used to teach children healthy learning attitudes, they are used for the opposite, to indoctrinate children with dogma, often patently false, even known to be false by the officials imposing the education.
See also Ashtiname of Muhammad Human rights in Islamic countries References External links Marrakesh Declaration
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
The edict extended to Jews the freedom to pursue all branches of commerce, but also imposed new requirements.
More commonly, seminarians were sent abroad for training, although such stop-gap measures did not nearly make up for the losses imposed by the May Laws.
Missionary schools were among the most respected institutions of secondary education; many members of the governing and business elite graduated from Jesuit high schools.
The first significant conflict occurred in Haute-Loire on February 27, 1906, during the inventory of the Notre-Dame d'Estours Chapel in Monistrol-d'Allier.
The changes of government did not affect the auctions, which continued until the end of the century.
The French commission Stasi is a commission set up to reflect upon the application of the laïcité principle.
In the Soviet zone, between 1950 and 1961, 2,891 Jehovah's Witnesses were arrested, with 2,202 (including 674 women) sentenced to an average of five and a half years in prison for alleged anti-state activities, espionage, or "incitement to war".
As a result, it is impossible to follow the indisputable word of God; one can only achieve a human understanding of God's will.
Critique of the West The problems and crisis of humanity continue to exist, because God, the source and guarantor of justice, the fountain of truth, the basis of all laws, is denied his proper place or, worse, completely disregarded.
The hostile variety, by contrast, seeks to confine religion purely to the home or church and limits religious education, religious rites of passage and public displays of faith.
Since embassies are exempt from the host country's laws, which is a form of extraterritoriality, these chapels were able to provide services to prohibited and persecuted religious groups.
"For a Just Russia" was led by Federation Council Speaker Sergey Mironov, who frequently spoke out against intolerance and anti-Semitism, including at a September 2006 visit to the Babiy Yar memorial in Ukraine.
Leadership The current co-chairs of the International Religious Freedom Caucus are Gus Bilirakis (Republican) and Dan Lipinski (Democrat) Members, 112th Congress == References ==
Foreign missionaries All foreigners who seek to enter the country to carry out religious work or perform religious rites must obtain a work visa before arrival, a process that normally takes approximately four months.
If the representative does not comply, the place of worship or association is instructed to close down.
It found that 'The compulsory display of a symbol of a given confession in premises used by the public authorities… restricted the right of parents to educate their children in conformity with their convictions' and that it restricted the 'right of children to believe or not to believe'.
Bismarck had spotted a new and more serious threat in the rise of the Social Democratic Party, and was aware that he could not go without the Catholics' support to enact his Anti-Socialist Laws.
History Established in 2006 by bipartisan co-founders Trent Franks, a Republican from Arizona, and Emanuel Cleaver, II, a Democrat from Missouri, the Caucus has worked to ensure that religoious freedom remains a high priority in United States foreign policy, development, and refugee law.
An estimated 23 percent of the population adheres to traditional indigenous religious beliefs; some of the traditional indigenous groups promoted cures for HIV, AIDS and other ailments.
It was at the same Council of Constance that Paulus Vladimiri presented his treatise arguing that Christian and pagan nations could co-exist in peace.
Members of unrecognized religious groups and converts from Islam face legal discrimination and bureaucratic difficulties as well as societal intolerance; Shari'a courts have the authority to prosecute proselytizers.
Conversely, secularism has been associated with left-wing or liberal ideology, as it takes the opposite stance to said policies, however, various left-wing policies have likewise been deemed forms of fundamentalism, notably stronger forms of wokeness.
90% of this funding is given to the Roman Catholic Church, with the second largest sum being given to the Russian Orthodox Church.
National holidays include the Christian holy days of Easter Monday, Ascension Day, Whit Monday, Assumption Day, All Saints' Day, and Christmas; the Islamic holy days of Ramadan, Tabaski, and the Birthday of Muhammad; and the indigenous celebration of Traditional Religions holiday.
Individual religious leaders make an effort to bridge the divide between Christians and Muslims and preach a message of tolerance.
When a group receives recognition through registration, a group still requires permission from local authorities to hold public meetings.
This opposition reached its peak with the execution of Michael Servetus, a Protestant theologian perceived as heterodox, who was burned at the stake in Geneva.
A Treatise of Civil Power was published by the English poet and polemicist John Milton in February 1659.
The Serbian Orthodox Church reports some difficulties in legal restitution regarding properties seized by the Yugoslav authorities.
Repeal of the Conventicle Act By 1818 there was a proposal to give the Quakers limited rights to organize.
The Irish bishops deputed Murray and Milner to represent to the pope, who had been a prisoner when it was issued, that there was danger in the rescript such as it was.
Bommai vs Union of India (1994), the Supreme Court laid down the principle of "positive secularism" and a "horizontal" separation of secular, material world from a religious, spiritual world.
Themes Milton believed that an individual's conscience was more important than any external factors or forces.
Religious group registration The law requires churches and other religious communities to register with the government to obtain status as legal entities, but it does not restrict the religious activities of unregistered religious groups.
During the reporting period, the Jehovah's Witnesses and Seventh-day Adventists reported that low-level government officials denied them the use of public space for religious gatherings.
While Pabongkhapa had an initially inclusive view early in his life, he received a number of signs that he had displeased Dorje Shugden by receiving teachings from non-Gelug schools, and thus initiated a revival movement that opposed the mixing of non-Gelug practices by Gelug practitioners.
In July 2017, unknown perpetrators spray painted and broke tombstones at the Orthodox cemetery in the Skopje village of Ljuboten.
Diệm supported the General Buddhist Association of Vietnam in constructing its large new headquarters in downtown Saigon, known as Xá Lợi Pagoda.
Some Christian groups reported that religious meetings must be held discreetly, especially in rural areas, for fear of the authorities.
In Cebuano, the term "Junquera" is synonymous with "red light district" because of the presence of street prostitutes in the area surrounding the street.
(ʿĪd al-Fiṭr is "the biggest" holiday, a three-day period of "feasting, gift-giving and general letting go").
All the old-fashioned professors would have approached Scotland Yard to get the importation of his writings prohibited.
Restrictions on religious freedom Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion, although there were some restrictions.
Third, the timeframes for consultation at the referral and panel stages would be extended to give more time for those affected by the projects to participate.
Under the logistic model, population growth rate between these two limits is most often assumed to be sigmoidal (Figure 1).
Nutrient depletion is a form of resource depletion and refers to the loss of nutrients and micronutrients in a habitat or parts of the biosphere, most often the soil (soil depletion, soil degradation).
These zones are created by the tidal movements of water along the rocky shores from high to low-tide.
Terminology and variations The term "high performance bedding" (HPB) is used to refer to 1/4" and 3/8" crushed rock.
In the spirit of land use politics, even the unified voices of the concerned abutters may sound only faintly against the machinery of "progress" or well-funded special interests.
From the late Republic through the first two centuries CE, ownership and management were diverse: some salinae were state property leased out to tax-farming companies, but many were run under municipal or private control; a universal state monopoly is not supported by the available evidence.
The Protocol was developed in a unique collaboration between 38 organisations who signed voluntary, pre-competitive contracts.
2025 Final List of Critical Minerals In November 2025, the Department of the Interior released the final 2025 List of Critical Minerals assessed by the U.S.
Pickands Mather and Company was formed in 1883, dealing in iron ore and pig iron, and mining iron ore from two mines in the Marquette Iron Range.
For example, most irrigation systems waste water; typically, only between 35% and 50% of water withdrawn for irrigated agriculture ever reaches the crops.
During investigations in late December on the research vessel R/V Gyre cruise 84-G-12, by Texas A&M University, two bottom trawls were conducted to determine the effects of oil seepage on benthic ecology (until this investigation, all effects of oil seepage were assumed to be detrimental).
The historical distinction between "land" and "capital" defined "land" as naturally occurring with a fixed supply, whereas "capital", as originally defined referred only to man-made goods.
Today, the transportation planning activities attached to metropolitan planning organizations are the loci for the care and feeding of regional land-use models.
The government established the Bureau of Oil and Gas which is under the Ministry of Basic Industry and Mining in 1961.
Criticism Whilst measuring the components of natural capital in any region is a relatively straightforward process, both the task and the rationale of putting a monetary valuation on them, or on the value of the goods and services they freely give us, has proved more contentious.
Department of Defense, is the primary agency responsible for analyzing, planning, procuring, and managing materials that are critical to national security.
This list incorporates materials deemed critical for energy applications and minerals from the 2022 final list designated by the Department of the Interior through the United States Geological Survey (USGS).
In Egypt, craftsmen used alabaster for canopic jars and various other sacred and sepulchral objects.
Criticism A 2024 study examining circular procurement in the Chinese manufacturing sector found that its impact on environmental performance was relatively minimal.
This is in conjunction with the ecological red line endeavour which restricts human activities in forests and calls for replacing the depleted ones.
This view is supported by evidence that, although land can come on and off the market, market inventories of land show, if anything, an inverse relationship to price (i.e., negative elasticity).
Many older walls were constructed from stones and boulders cleared from the fields during preparation for agriculture (field stones) although some used stone quarried nearby.
Economist Tyler Cowen cites examples of animal species whose extinction is not generally regarded as having been on balance bad for the world.
Features of a watershed that agencies seek to manage to include water supply, water quality, drainage, stormwater runoff, water rights and the overall planning and utilization of watersheds.
The end result of nutrient depletion is nutrient deficiency, or the lack of key resources within a medium.
Notably, compensatory afforestation does not inhibit human activities on forests but rather creates room for them and calls for the planting of new ones.
Developing countries have refused to issue permits for basic biodiversity research unrelated to bioprospecting, even prosecuting the scientist in some cases.
Economies of scale, which might be realized if fewer, larger operations served larger marketing areas, would probably not offset the increased transportation costs.
Structure The ministry consists of the following departments: Natural Gas Petroleum Conflict Resolution Research and Statistics Administration Department of Finance and Accounts.
In this way the plan is a tool to prepare and justify annual budgets, for allocating budgets, and to guide annual work priorities, and facilitate the scheduling and sequencing of projects.
The bayou flows through the Tallulah,–Richmond area and joins Roundaway Bayou near Richmond; it is part of the Tensas River basin.
Asia In Indonesia, gizzard and liver (ati ampela) are considered part of a complete fried poultry dish.
Criticism Ecological economist Clive Spash criticized Hartwick's Rule for its "self-evident lack of realism".
Labour MPs Parker, Brooking, Phil Twyford, Warren-Clark, Arena Williams, Tracey McLellan, and Sosene, and Green MP Sage gave speeches defending the Bill.
Alabaster is also found, in smaller quantity, at Watchet in Somerset, near Penarth in Glamorganshire, and elsewhere.
By contrast, National and ACT MPs including Scott Simpson, Stuart Smith, Simon Court, Sam Uffindell, and David Bennett expressed concerns about red tape and centralisation, and claimed that the bill would do little to address the housing shortage.
These include Stagnation zone Flow deflection zone Flow separation zone / recirculation zone Maximum velocity zone Flow recovery zone Shear layers Engineering The broader field of engineering encompasses a vast assortment of subjects which concern confluences.
By the end of the war, demand for helium had dropped precipitously and the operation of most production plants ceased.
Due to the large volume of submitters, the committee decided to filter the number of oral submissions using a ballot system.
However, little of the sediment is from current rivers; some 60–70% of the sediment on the world's shelves is relict sediment, deposited during the last ice age, when sea level was 100–120 m lower than it is now.
In 1997, the Government of Ontario issued a forestry licence for clear-cutting to Abitibi-Consolidated Inc.
The difference between total investment in some kinds of capital and total disinvestment in other types of capital has been labelled "genuine savings".
Regulations may also provide an abutter with the right to be heard at the hearing, unlike others who must request permission to be heard, at the discretion of the board.
Ontario, Canada LUR was used to predict the concentration of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, m/p-xylene, and o-xylene (BTEX) concentrations in Ontario.
One school of thought entertains the notion of war over water, the ultimate progression of an unresolved water dispute—scarce water resources combined with the pressure of exponentially increasing population may outstrip the ability of the WTO to maintain civility in trade issues.
It is usually cooked as a street food in a skewered barbecue style, though some households treat it like an entree.
The group is made up of more than 100 women from seven nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon and advocates for the protection of nature, territory, women's rights, health, education, and Indigenous culture in Ecuador.
Further, the transfer often occurs on a later date, such as the date when the 'earning barrier' has been met.
Many of the dry-stone walls that exist today in Scotland can be dated to the 14th century or earlier when they were built to divide fields and retain livestock.
In contrast, in some cases wetlands are also flooded to be converted to recreational lakes or hydropower generation.
Culp produced an energy conversion table describing the different conversions from one energy to another.
Many scientists have voiced concern over the protocol, fearing the increased red tape will hamper disease prevention and conservation efforts.
Production costs are determined mainly by the cost of labor, equipment, energy, and water, in addition to the costs of compliance with environmental and safety regulations.
Boston Boston has been known historically for the high-cost of living that accompanies residence there, as well as being subject to various urban renewal projects during America's Urban Renewal era.
Sea-salt production in antiquity was fundamental to food preservation, animal husbandry and crafts, yet the archaeological footprint of the salt pans (salinae) themselves is comparatively scarce, making the reconstruction of production landscapes and practices challenging.
If there is need to go to war, we could get millions readied." Egypt sees the dam as an existential threat.
To Pogge, the world order currently violates the first principle of justice (equal opportunity), as well as the second principle (equal access to offices, but also the idea that inequalities should favour the poorest individuals).
3 (1873) (“Treaty 3”), thus limiting First Nation harvesting rights." The Ojibway had yielded ownership of their territory to Canada, through the signing in 1873 of Treaty 3.
Koilin lining In order to protect the muscles of the gizzard, the organ has a multi-layered membrane - or gastric cuticle - made of koilin, a carbohydrate-protein complex (and not keratin as once believed) to protect the muscles.
The sample is one centimeter in diameter and has been entrusted to the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History with the catalog number USNM7554.
Status-quo bias: A tendency to assume that the current state of nature, including predation and suffering, is morally optimal simply because it is the way things are.
The densification of the new mixed water parcel is a result of a slight contraction upon mixing; a decrease in volume of the combined water parcel.
1953 – 1972 The National September 11 Memorial & Museum, located at the World Trade Center site in New York City, with two reflecting pools on the location where the Twin Towers stood Gallery == References ==
The incident attracted widespread media attention and the neighborhoods surrounding Love Canal have since been destroyed.
Resource productivity is the quantity of good or service (outcome) that is obtained through the expenditure of unit resource.
Labour's acting environmental spokesperson David Parker and Environmental Defence Society CEO Gary Taylor criticised the inclusion of several "environmentally questionable" projects including Trans-Tasman Resources' seabed mining and the Waitaha Hydro Project.
Larger ones may be between 450 and 600 mm (18 and 24 in) in height, which are called "Cripple Holes".
Water supply and loss Ponds outside of gardens are fed by four main water sources: rain, inflows (springs and streams), surface runoff, and groundwater.
The latter area includes the large Amsterdam mud volcano, which is affected by recent mudflows, and the smaller Kazan or Kula mud volcanoes.
Environmental and Resource Economics (ERE) is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering environmental economics published monthly.
Energy quality evaluation methods There appear to be two main kinds of methodology used for the calculation of energy quality.
North America In Mexico, there are famous deposits of a delicate green variety at La Pedrara, in the district of Tecali, near Puebla.
The coal production of this zone was comparable with that of all of British India, and half of that produced by Japan.
Here, stratification can vary on timescales from the semidiurnal tidal cycle through to the springs-neap tidal cycle due to a process known as "tidal straining".
As a result, the Aral Sea's water has become much saltier and the sea's water level has decreased by over 60%.
the central Pacific), even in lakes, and are thought to have been a feature of the seas and oceans at least since the deep oceans were oxygenated in the Ediacaran period over 540 million years ago.
During the 1980s, the Environmental Law Clinic doubled in size and was renamed the Pacific Northwest Natural Resources Clinic.
The committee was funded by the Ford Foundation to assist in the development of the nascent urban economics field.
(Note---the historic term of “recreation” has largely been replaced by the phrase “recreation opportunity” as defined above).
The nominated international organization would follow rules established by lawyers, economists, and other professionals from around the world.
But the RUF – despite being both numerically inferior and extremely brutal against civilians – controlled a significant portion of the country by the year's end.
The bayou parallels portions of Louisiana Highway 602; the National Register nomination for Crescent Plantation notes that “Brushy Bayou runs in front of the plantation residence” and that LA 602 follows the route of Brushy and Walnut bayous.
Australia In 2024 the Australian government announced a "Future Made in Australia" initiative as a new industrial policy for Australia, supporting manufacturing and exploitation of critical mineral resources as part of Australia's renewable energy transition.
References Citations General and cited sources Solomon, Eldra Pearl; Berg, Linda R.; Martin, Diana W.
After certain practices are installed, it is important to continuously monitor these systems to ensure that they are working properly in terms of improving environmental quality.
Then, in March 2023, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed the Critical Raw Materials Act, "for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council establishing a framework for ensuring a secure and sustainable supply of critical raw materials".
When the fowler used falconry, he seems to have needed to catch and train his hawks; the Colloquium mentions: The fowler offering to sell a hawk in exchange for a swift dog.
Based on the results, they selected the PVEX corer for additional development in an integrated WINE prototype.
This would also eliminate participation of owners of unrecorded title, such as adverse possession or those who have simply failed to record a deed or settle an estate involving the adjacent property.
This price jump was an incentive for private companies to enter the market and sell helium at lower prices.
Germany, 35 billion cubic metres (1.2 trillion cubic feet), supplies ceased due to Nord Stream or the refusal to pay in rubles resulting in supplies being terminated.
Examples Freestanding "kill" Examples of the freestanding use of "kill" are: Anthony Kill, in Saratoga County, New York which flows from Round Lake through the city of Mechanicville into the Hudson River.
Accounting As a tangible asset, land is represented in accounting as a fixed asset or a capital asset.
Mainly in England, there were still more specialised painters from the 18th century who produced portraits of racehorses and prize specimens of livestock, whereas in France animal subjects continued to be decorative capriccios often set around garden statuary.
Usually, the pond will be filled by a combination of tap water, rainwater, and surface runoff – and lost to evaporation.
On the island separating the two portions of the falls is a park with military monuments, among them the Ottawa Memorial.
In urban settings, managing areas to prevent soil loss and control stormwater flow are a few of the areas that receive attention.
For researchers, helium is irreplaceable because it is essential for producing very low temperatures.
The Rivers State Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is a government ministry of Rivers State, Nigeria in charge of monitoring, controlling, and regulating activities related to energy and natural resources in the state.
Even in the Verses on the Classification of Buddhist Systems, Jitāri heavily relies on Dharmakirti's system of reasoning throughout the text, calling him "the crest jewel of epistemologists", and "the supreme lord of reasoning".
It was authored by the Indian philosopher Bhasarvajna during the period of 10th century CE in the Indian subcontinent.
The terminology had some currency at least until the seventeenth century, and Johannes Clauberg's Logica vetus et nova (1654).
References Footnotes Sources Harbsmeier, Christoph (1998), Kenneth Robinson (ed.), Language and Logic, Joseph Needham: Science and Civilisation in China, vol.
He brought the new school of Nyaya, Navya Nyāya, representing the final development of Indian formal logic, to its zenith of analytic power.
He was quite influential in both Kashmir and Tibet, and became known as "the second Dharmakīrti," and “the Great Brahmin.” Śaṅkaranandana is cited by both Kashmiri Shaiva authors like Abhinavagupta and by Tibetan Buddhist authors and translators.
Inference for Others (Parārthānumāna): This type of inference is presented in a way that can be communicated to others, providing a logical basis for convincing others of a particular conclusion.
Though the theses seem haphazard, and the list lacking in logical structure, Chris Fraser argues that they can be divided into four natural groups: The basic principles (theses 1, 5 and 10) – These are non-paradoxical statements of Hui Shi's ontological doctrines.
The Gongsun Longzi and Other Neglected Texts: Aligning philosophical and philological perspectives (PDF).
This proof established that the Robbins axiom, together with associativity and commutativity, form a 3-basis for Boolean algebra.
ISBN 1-55939-217-7 Shantarakshita (author); Mipham (commentator); Padmakara Translation Group (translators)(2005).
Similarly, the Stoics distinguish all the objects of human pursuit into three classes: good, bad, and adiaphora (indifferent).
Here I am referring not to a determinate particular cup, but to all cups "fused" together, that is all cups "confusedly." This is called confused and distributive supposition.
Within some academic contexts, syllogism has been superseded by first-order predicate logic following the work of Gottlob Frege, in particular his Begriffsschrift (Concept Script; 1879).
Some perceive the atman as having a cause but not effect, an effect but no cause, or indeed a complex causality or causal relationship.
Ratnakīrti's "Proof of Exclusion" (Apohasiddhi) establishes a theory of exclusion that follows Dignāga's theory of the same.
Jenkinson Prior Analytics public domain audiobook at LibriVox Prior Analytics - Uncompressed Audiobook Aristotle: Logic entry by Louis Groarke in the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy Smith, Robin.
Furthermore, it's impossible to take something (P) to be real without, at least momentarily, ignoring or denying that which it is not (not-P).
Chapter 3 The subject of this chapter is the "inference for other" (parārthānumāṇa), the process by which one makes public what one knows, by formal means, using a syllogistic means of argument.
Roughly speaking: a definition with more qualifications or features (the intension) denotes a class with fewer members (the extension), and vice versa.
From about 1910 to 1930, analytic philosophers emphasized creating an ideal language for philosophical analysis, which would be free from the ambiguities of ordinary language that, in their opinion, often led philosophers astray.
And, again, now that we have looked at animal as a species of the genus body, we look at animal now as a genus and consider its differentia, which are shown on the diagram to be irrational and rational.
(PVA 351.5-6) As such, perceptual diversity is not just caused by past latent impressions (seeds in the storehouse consciousness), but by actual past cognitions which reappear or manifest within consciousness.
- ISBN 978-5-02-036573-5 External links Works by Xi Deng at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Xi Deng at the Internet Archive
History Algebraic logic is, perhaps, the oldest approach to formal logic, arguably beginning with a number of memoranda Leibniz wrote in the 1680s, some of which were published in the 19th century and translated into English by Clarence Lewis in 1918.
Roughly a generation later, Diodorus Cronus from the Megarian school of philosophy stated a version of the problem in his notorious master argument.
It appears in William of Sherwood's Introduction to Logic and is given the name Arbor Porphyrii in the most popular medieval logic, Peter of Spain's Summulae Logicales.
It also posits that merely human traditions, namely extrabiblical rites or ceremonies, need not be the same across all congregations.
Academy of Pakshadhara Mishra The academy of Pakshadhara Mishra was a famous centre of learning Nyaya Shastra.
The expression "X is not Y" (X非Y) can mean either "X is not a member (or subset) of set Y" "X is not identical to Y" The sentence "White horses are not horses" would normally be taken to assert the obviously false claim that white horses are not part of the group of horses.
A charismatic speaker well known for his clarity and wit, he once delivered a lecture (1994b) giving an account of Gödel's second incompleteness theorem, employing only words of one syllable.
Bacon hopes that empirical investigation will, similarly, smash the old scientific ideas and lead to greater understanding of the world and heavens.
Idols of the Market (Idola fori) These are "derived as if from the mutual agreement and association of the human race, which I call Idols of the Market on account of men's commerce and partnerships.
References External links Logic Lane information from Oxfordshire County Council Logic Lane films on philosophy
Diogenes Laërtius says that Diodorus also made use of the Sorites paradox, and is said to have invented two others of the same kind, viz.
Here, Dignāga first eliminates authority as a separate valid means of knowledge, stating that it is a kind of inference.
Inside the country, dialectical logic was actively discussed during the Cultural Revolution, while formal logic stagnated.
The Prior Analytics represents the first formal study of logic, where logic is understood as the study of arguments.
O form (otherwise known as particular negative) In an O-proposition, only the predicate is distributed.
The hero of his quasi-philosophical drama is a young graduate of the Mimansa school, who wants to defeat all opponents of Vedas through reasoning.
Graham summarises the arduous textual history of the Canons by arguing that the Canons were neglected throughout most of China's history; but he attributes this fact to "bibliographical" accidents, rather than political repression, like Nakamura.
Diodorus is said to have taken that disgrace so much to heart that after his return from the meal, and writing a treatise on the problem, he died in despair.
Ratnakīrti's work has been termed as "more concise and logical though not so poetical" compared to that of his teacher, although he does build on much of Jñānaśrīmitra's work.
His name is sometimes erroneously confused with Mallanaga, the seer of the Asuras, to whom the origin of erotic science is attributed.
In the uterus, chickens produce ovocleidin-17 (OC-17), which causes the formation of the thickened calcium carbonate shell around their eggs.
Westerink, however, argue that the text is probably an original composition in Armenian because of the exact verbal correspondence with certain quotations from the Armenian versions of Aristotle, David the Invincible and Dionysius Thrax.
{\displaystyle \neg ({\neg x}\lor y)\lor (z\lor y)=y\lor (z\lor x).} The following year, Meredith found a 2-basis in terms of the Sheffer stroke: ( x ∣ x ) ∣ ( y ∣ x ) = x , {\displaystyle (x\mid x)\mid (y\mid x)=x,} x | ( y ∣ ( x ∣ z ) ) = ( ( z ∣ y ) ∣ y ) ∣ x .
Scott has suggested that the theory of supposition proper was designed to answer the question What kind of thing are you talking about?
In its description of set theory, mention is made of Russell's paradox and the Liar paradox (page 145).
This was an advance over the logica antiqua, which treated the Isagoge of Porphyry, Divisions and Topics of Boethius, the Categories and On Interpretation of Aristotle, and the Summule logicales of Peter of Spain.
Similarly, he also authored a version of the text Vishnu Purana at Jamsam which was located on the west side of the disappeared city Amravati in Mithila.
Although Aristotle does not call them "categorical sentences", tradition does; he deals with them briefly in the Analytics and more extensively in On Interpretation.
The extremes (the terms that jut out to the left and right), containing the differentiae, we can take as analogous to the branches of a tree: The diagram shows the highest genus to be substance.
This is an influential work, and attempted to resolve some of the interpretation disputes on classical Sanskrit texts.
It involves naming each object to be analyzed, identifying a distinguishing characteristic for the named object, and verifying the appropriateness of the defining characteristic using pramanas.
Boolos, what does the analytical hierarchy have to do with the real world?" Without hesitating Boolos replied, "It's part of it".
9th or 10th century), (Tibetan: Bde byed dga’ ba) was a Mahayana Buddhist philosopher, and a brahmin lay devotee (upāsaka) active in Kashmir in the epistemological (pramana) tradition of Dignaga and Dharmakīrti.
Ratnakīrti (11th century CE) was an Indian Buddhist philosopher of the Yogācāra and epistemological (pramāṇavāda) schools who wrote on logic, philosophy of mind and epistemology.
The hypothesis must further be broken down into two parts, state the ancient Indian scholars: sadhya (that idea which needs to be proven or disproven) and paksha (the object on which the sadhya is predicated).
The latitudinarian Anglicans of that period built on Richard Hooker's position in Of the Laws of Ecclesiastical Polity, which states God cares about the moral state of the individual soul and that matters such as church leadership are "things indifferent".
Proceedings of a workshop, FOL-75, commemorating the 75th anniversary of the publication of Hilbert and Ackermann (1928).
Dhātu-yamaka – Pairs of elements, subdivided into 18 elements including sense organs, sense objects, types of consciousness, mind element, mind-consciousness element, and mental objects.
When the device was used for the "Rule for the Logic of Certainty", the gray slider was inserted from the left.
However, the summit of this late imperial scholarship, according to Graham, was the 'magnificent' commentary of Sun Yirang, which "threw open the sanctum of the Canons to all comers".
Thus, since inference has pragmatic efficacy, it can be called a pramāṇa, even if it is a concept that does not know the actual form of the object, and is thus ultimately erroneous.
The Nyaya Shastra also known as Indian Logic is one of the six schools of thought in the Indian philosophy.
Bodhyāpattideśanāvṛtti-bodhisattvaśikṣākrama-nāma, a ritual manual for confessing the breaking of bodhisattva precepts.
An Anthology of Sanskrit Court Poetry Volume 44 of the Harvard Oriental Series, 'An Anthology of Sanskrit Court Poetry', is the acclaimed English translation by Ingalls of the Sanskrit text 'Subhasitaratnakosa' of Vidyakara.
Chrysippus, on the other hand, agreed with Diodorus that everything true as an event in the past is necessary, but attacked Diodorus' view that the possible must be either what is true or what will be true.
Plutarch posed the question as a philosophical matter in his essay "The Symposiacs", written in the 1st century CE.
The field was established and formalized by Claude Shannon in the 1940s, though early contributions were made in the 1920s through the works of Harry Nyquist and Ralph Hartley.
The Armenian author or translator has created new words for many of these, in keeping with the tendencies of the Hellenizing School.
Yamaka (यमक; Pali for "pairs"; Vietnamese: Bộ Song Đối (Song Luận)) is a text of the Pali Canon, the scriptures of Buddhist monastic law.
A central issue which concerned Dignāga was the interpretation of signs (linga) or the evidence (hetu) which led one to an inference about states of affairs; such as how smoke can lead one to infer that there is a fire.
Rather, it is something that has already been presented (upalabdha) and is being remembered (anusmrta).
He concludes that Je Tsongkhapa, in making a distinction based on true establishment, proposes a Svatantrika rather than a Prasangika approach.
Notes and references Notes References Further reading Obituary notice in the Harvard Gazette Memorial minutes in the Harvard Gazette Sheldon Pollock (September 1985).
While in an ultimate or absolute sense, all phenomena as seen by Madhyamaka as being "empty" (shunya) of essence or inherent nature (svabhāva), they can be said to have some kind of conventional, nominal or provisional existence.
Beall and Bradley Armour-Garb, have proposed that the liar sentence should be considered to be both true and false, a point of view known as dialetheism.
He aimed to establish clear boundaries for each concept, which he believed was essential for maintaining logical consistency and clarity in philosophical discourse.
{\displaystyle m\subset n\quad {\text{when}}\quad \forall i,j\quad m_{ij}=1\implies n_{ij}=1.} The modern symbol for inclusion first appears in Gergonne (1816), who defines it as one idea 'containing' or being 'contained' by another, using the backward letter 'C' to express this.
Nyayavarttikatatparyaparisuddhi: This is an elaborate commentary on the Nyäyavarttikatätparyatika of Vacaspatimisra.
A syllogism (Ancient Greek: συλλογισμός, syllogismos, 'conclusion, inference') is a kind of logical argument that applies deductive reasoning to arrive at a conclusion based on two propositions that are asserted or assumed to be true.
Their work on modal logic, logical conditionals, and propositional logic played an important role in the development of logic in antiquity.
The proposed classification is non-exclusive; a logic may be both a deviation and an extension of classical logic.
The choice of logarithmic base in the following formulae determines the unit of information entropy that is used.
History The Megarian school of philosophy was founded by Euclides of Megara, who had been one of the pupils of Socrates in the late 5th century BC.
It was adopted for the 1989 translation of the Prior Analytics by Robin Smith and for the 2009 translation of the Prior Analytics Book A by Gisela Striker.
Reformed epistemology Analytic philosophy formed the basis for some sophisticated Christian arguments, such as those of the reformed epistemologists including Alvin Plantinga, William Alston, and Nicholas Wolterstorff.
Ryle Ryle, in The Concept of Mind (1949), criticized Cartesian dualism, arguing in favor of disposing of "Descartes' myth" of the ghost in the machine by recognizing "category errors".
Secondary Sources Barwise, Jon, (ed.), Handbook of Mathematical Logic, Studies in Logic and the Foundations of Mathematics, Amsterdam, North Holland, 1982 ISBN 978-0-444-86388-1 .
In the first volume, seven principles are explained: roots (mūla, e.g., wholesome roots), aggregates (khandha), sense bases (āyatana), elements (dhātu), truths (sacca), mental formations (saṅkhāra), and latent tendencies (anusaya).
[emphasis evident in Robinson] Śūnyatā is the ninth 'view' (Sanskrit: dṛṣṭi), the viewless view, a superposition of the eight possible arrays of proposition P [and its 'inseparable contradistinction' (Sanskrit: apoha)].
The text systematically lays out logical rules for argumentation in the form of a five-step schema and also sets forth a theory of epistemology.
Being one of the six extant Aristotelian writings on logic and scientific method, it is part of what later Peripatetics called the Organon.
To identify a sign, we have to assume that it is present in the pakṣa, however; that is the first condition is already satisfied.
Scholars have struggled to find an accurate date for Gaṅgeśa with the most common estimate placing him in the late thirteenth century however recent opinion now places him in the fourteenth century.
Stilpo is said to have continued the Eleatic tendency, by asserting a strict monism and denying all change and motion, and he also rejected Plato's Theory of Forms.
The Organon (Ancient Greek: Ὄργανον, meaning "instrument, tool, organ") is the standard collection of Aristotle's six works on logical analysis and dialectic.
A form (otherwise known as universal affirmative) An A-proposition distributes the subject to the predicate, but not the reverse.
Regardless, studies have been published examining how methods such as plyometrics, strength, or endurance training affect participants.
Whilst ECGs are done for many athletes in the USA, the standard of care is more likely to be an annual history & physical examination, with an ECG only performed if any item of concern with the clinical presentation.
In addition to the water belt, swimmers can wear ankle support, water gloves on their hands and water shoes on their feet.
In a 1998 paper in the Canadian Medical Association Journal McKenzie described how in February 1996 he started a dragon boat team for women with a history of breast cancer, which the women chose to name Abreast in a Boat.
Structure The location of the Academy is the Palm Meadows Radisson Hotel resort, which includes a world-class baseball facility.
Pyruvate is converted into acetyl-coenzyme A, which is the main input for a series of reactions known as the Krebs cycle (also known as the citric acid cycle or tricarboxylic acid cycle).
The subject gets a five-second countdown to the beginning of the test, during which time they pedal as fast as they can.
He now works as a PE Teacher at Chellaston Academy in Derby and is often co-commentator for Wolves matches on the official Wolverhampton Wanderers website and app alongside Mikey Burrows.
The limitations of front and back bending of the core is for example, contrasted by ergonomic construction to encourage good posture in modern weighted vests such as the x-vest, hyper vest or game-breakers pro suit.
It is used by hobbyists in lieu of rubber cement as an assembly adhesive for radio controlled models of cars and aircraft, repair of Lexan bodies, and as a waterproofing agent for model boats.
Human biomechanics helps analyze the body's movements, exploring how internal forces -- such as muscles, ligaments, and joints -- help create external movement.
Uses Aside from its major role in the functioning of living organisms, pyruvic acid is of interest as a reagent in the synthesis of specialized organic compounds as discussed above in the reactivity section.
Diagnosis To assess the knee, a clinician can perform the Patellar Aprehension Test by moving the patella back and forth while the people flexes the knee at approximately 30 degrees.
Drinking too much water before, during, or after extreme exercise (such as a marathon) can cause nausea, diarrhea, confusion, and muscle tremors.
In structure of federation the special body of FILA World Traditional Wrestling Committee has been based, Kylasov became one of founders of this committee and its member.
This research is trying to identify the cellular mechanisms that explain how exercise training and dietary choices during childhood and adolescence affects lifelong bone health.
In 1991, he was appointed as the notational analyst for the Welsh Rugby Union and attended the Rugby World Cup.
His views on matters related to training for endurance sports have been featured in such publications as VeloNews, Outside, Runner’s World, and The New York Times.
It takes advantage of the particular effectiveness of one training method to negate the shortcomings of another.
The noted ancient Greek physician Galen (131–201) wrote 87 detailed essays about improving health (proper nutrition), aerobic fitness, and strengthening muscles.
See also NTSU Arena List of universities in Taiwan References External links Media related to National Taiwan Sport University at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Athletic trainers treat a broad population, from the amateur and professional athlete to the typical patient in need of orthopaedic rehabilitative care.
Running economy has also been observed to decrease towards the end of races while core temperature, heart rate, ventilation, and lactic acid increase.
This paper identifies characteristics of cloud computing and discusses sport coaches' use of the 'Cloud'.
NTSU offers a variety of undergraduate and graduate programs, including bachelor's and master's degrees in fields such as sports science, physical education, leisure and recreation management, sports coaching, athletic training, and sports medicine.
He used his knowledge from being an active participant in the sport to author several technical manuals.
The interplay of exercise and music has long been discussed, crossing the disciplines of biomechanics, neurology, physiology, and sport psychology.
The effect is achieved through attaching weighted pieces to the body (or to other garments) which leave the hands free to grasp objects.
These muscle groups are activated by stimuli in infants for instincts such as grabbing for their mothers or breaking their falls.
Licensing and regulation Canada In Canada, kinesiology has been designated a regulated health profession in Ontario.
Increases in plasma anandamide levels are associated with psychoactive effects because anandamide is able to cross the blood–brain barrier and act within the central nervous system.
A 2016 meta-analysis concluded that physical exercise improves overall quality of life in individuals with depression relative to controls.
McGuinness is the son of former Manchester United player and manager Wilf McGuinness, and holds a degree in physical education from Loughborough University.
At that time (the early 1980s) there was an emerging interest in the United Kingdom in the analysis of performance in sport and physical education.
Sendai University (仙台大学, Sendai daigaku) is a private university in Shibata, Miyagi, Japan, established in 1967.
When the desired motion is accomplished, relaxation can be achieved quickly through numerous pathways.
Season of birth examines the influence of different prenatal and perinatal seasonal environmental factors like sunlight, temperature, or viral exposure during gestation, that relate to health outcomes.
A 2004 study by a research team from Australia, Israel and the United States found that in runners performing at a pace where they were at 90% of their peak oxygen uptake, music had no effect on their heart rate or running pace, regardless of the music's tempo.
A final test for het time trial capabilities before the World Championships was at the Chrono Champenois ITT.
A non-training elevation of 2,100–2,500 metres (6,900–8,200 ft) and training at 1,250 metres (4,100 ft) or less has shown to be the optimal approach for altitude training.
Some researchers have argued that prospective longitudinal studies, following subjects over time, are needed to completely understand the causes and progression of CTE.
Exercise-induced nausea is a feeling of sickness or vomiting which can occur shortly after exercise has stopped as well as during exercise itself.
People engaged in high-intensity exercise such as aerobics and bicycling have reported experiencing exercise-induced nausea.
During the test, subjects were asked to point at a scale from 6 to 20 reflecting their feeling of discomfort.
History Antoine Lavoisier noted in 1780 that heat production, in some cases, can be predicted from oxygen consumption, using multiple regression.
Paul McGuinness (born 2 March 1966) is an English former footballer who played as a midfielder in the Football League for Crewe Alexandra and Chester City.
In order to successfully care for the athletes, the NFLPS works closely with the Professional Football Athletic Trainers Society (PFATS), the National Football League (NFL), and the National Athletic Trainers Association (NATA).
DMHA has also been found as an adulterant in sports supplements and is sold online as a designer drug.
In an attempt to lower the number of helmet-to-helmet hits, which often leads to concussions and increases likelihood of brain injuries, the NFL changed its rules for helmet-to-helmet hits in the offseason of 2018.
SportVU provides statistics such as real-time player and ball positioning through software and statistical algorithms.
Hybrid athlete A hybrid athlete is an individual who possesses a balance of both strength and endurance.
Runners such as Tim Hutchings have suggested that super shoes have diluted the currency of world records, which should be considered in their historical contexts.
A biomechanist with the Sports Science Centre at Singapore Sports Institute, Hodierne is one of those to whom Joseph Schooling paid tribute for his 2016 Summer Olympics success, including the nutritionist Kirsty Fairbairn and high-performance manager Sonya Porter.
Since July 2025, Klentrou has been the Dean of the Faculty of Applied Health Sciences at Brock University[1] Klentrou served as president of the Canadian Society for Exercise Physiology from 2017 to 2019 after having served as treasurer of the Society for 10 years (2023–2013).
Academics The university offers bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees in a wide variety of sports-related disciplines.
Although left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is more common, right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH), as well as concurrent hypertrophy of both ventricles can also occur.
Three reviews indicate that marked improvements in prefrontal and hippocampal gray matter volume occur in healthy adults that regularly engage in medium intensity exercise for several months.
In other animals In most situations, described above, the increase in ventricular wall thickness is a slow process.
Previously a physical education teacher and national coaching director of the Rugby Football League, Larder was one of the first defence coaches in professional rugby union, and is considered a pioneer in applying rugby league expertise to the defensive side of rugby union.
ATP binds to the myosin head and causes the 'ratchetting' that results in contraction according to the sliding filament model.
While much of the research regarding the effects of altitude on the flight of baseballs is relative to more home runs, altitude has been shown to increase offense in all aspects which contact is made.
Relevant calculations Peak Power (PP) Ideally measured within the first 5 sec of the test, and is calculated by: P = F × d t {\displaystyle P={\tfrac {F\times d}{t}}} where t is time in seconds.
In recognition of the fact that humans are lifelong learners and also potentially engaged in lifelong physical activity, current definitions of sport pedagogy favor a broader view within a sport context.
The pumping action of the heart generates pulsatile blood flow, which is conducted into the arteries, across the micro-circulation and eventually, back via the venous system to the heart.
Nevertheless, he worked to create an adhesive with a pliable surface coating for shoe soles, whipping up his experimental blends in a spaghetti pot.
Friel coached Ryan Bolton, an Olympic athlete and the winner of the 2002 Ironman Triathlon at Lake Placid.
Ventricular hypertrophy may be divided into two categories: concentric hypertrophy and eccentric hypertrophy.
Repeating the Wingate test during training sessions can increase aerobic power and capacity, as well as maximal aerobic capacity.
For swimming, cross-training frequently includes running, stretching, and other resistance and agility training.
He was assistant coach to Mal Reilly on the 1988 Great Britain Lions tour, when the Lions won the third test in Sydney, their first test win over Australia since the second test of the 1978 Kangaroo Tour, and remained Great Britain's assistant coach until the end of 1994.
In 1972, to market his creation, Van Vliet started a business called Eclectic Products, with its manufacturing facilities in his home garage in Palos Verdes, California.
Roberts performed one of the first clinical assessments of traumatic encephalopathy in athletes in 1969.
As Canada's leading lifeguarding experts, LSS sets the standard for professional lifeguard training and certify Canada's National Lifeguards.
In Germany for instance, the publication of Ommo Grupe's influential book ‘Grundlagen der Sportpädagogik’ (Foundations of Sport Pedagogy) provided a key moment in defining the concepts and content of sport pedagogy as an academic subject.
It was the first Physiotherapy school in the world, training hundreds of medical gymnasts who spread the Swedish physical therapy around the entire world.
In Australia, the majority of sports science research from 1983 to 2003 was done in laboratories and nearly half of the research was done with sub-elite or elite athletes.
The Major League Baseball Australian Academy Program (MLBAAP) is a seven-week baseball development program held on the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia for prospective Australian baseball players and officials.
The Vassil Levski National Sports Academy (Bulgarian: Национална Спортна Академия "Васил Левски"), commonly referred to as the NSA, is Bulgaria's premiere higher education institution specializing in teaching physical education.
To achieve this end, sport pedagogy researchers should be encouraged to engage in inter-disciplinary work, in order to transcend the respective academic silos that sometimes exist between the distinct sub-disciplines in sport science.
The Budo Specialization Program curriculum focuses primarily on the advanced study of judō or kendō study, and secondarily on the study of Japanese culture and the Japanese language.
While Filbry was supported by two thirds of Bundesliga clubs, Keller won thanks to the votes of most 2.
Furthermore, research has provided a great deal of support for the role of BDNF in hippocampal neurogenesis, synaptic plasticity, and neural repair.
Like ephedrine, racephedrine is a releasing agent of norepinephrine and to a much lesser extent of dopamine.
The assumption was lactic acid had a "pickling" effect on muscles, inhibiting their ability to contract.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12970-020-00350-z Kouvelioti, R.; Kurgan, N.; Falk, B.; Ward, W.E.; Josse, A.R.; Klentrou, P.
As a player, McGuinness was a midfielder who made 20 Football League appearances with Crewe Alexandra and Chester City.
This is dependent on their personal experience with the activity and how physically fit the person is.
In sports, park effects are the unique factors of each stadium or arena that impact a game's outcome.
Similarly, in systemic hypertension, the left ventricle must work harder to overcome the higher pressures of the vascular system and responds by thickening to deal with increased wall stress.
This creates a lasting effect when running at lower temperatures in which a relatively lower core temperatures can be achieved.
Metaresearch aims to systematically evaluate and improve research practices by examining study design, statistical methods, reporting standards, and ethical considerations.
Skeletal and cardiac muscles are called striated muscle because of their striped appearance under a microscope, which is due to the highly organized alternating pattern of A bands and I bands.
Athletic training has been recognized by the American Medical Association (AMA) as an allied health care profession since 1990.
More longitudinal studies are needed, alongside more reliable ways to band individuals, as biological, psychological and social development doesn't progress in synchrony, creating different imbalances in the groups.
The interaction between the neuromuscular system and the muscles is of particular importance in understanding the related physiological processes.
The analyses of sport biomechanics also have been proven to increase injury prevention and advance injury prevention tactics.
In addition to martial arts training, the university also offer theoretical classes of various subjects and especially budō history.
The team physician for a sports team is the physician who is in charge of coordinating the medical staff and medical services for a sports team.
Studies of indirect calorimetry over the past 20 years have led to the characterization of the hypermetabolic stress response to injury and the design of nutritional regimens whose substrates are most efficiently assimilated in different disease processes and organ failure states.
When treated with phenethylamine, it gives tetrahydroisoquinoline by a sequential condensation/acylation process (Bischler–Napieralski reaction).
The Fort consisted of a stockade 90 feet (27 m) square, with two blockhouses at opposite corners, each 20 feet (6.1 m) square.
Congressional reports found fault with Jackson's handling of the trial and execution of Arbuthnot and Ambrister, but Congress chose not to censure the popular general.
The fort was abandoned at the end of the Indian Wars.” References External links 2nd Seminole War Fort Diagram (Ft.
Protection along the U.S.–Florida border proved to still be necessary, even though the War of 1812 was over; raids were regularly launched into Georgia from Spanish Florida by Red Sticks, other Seminoles, and maroons (escaped slaves).
Those Maroons who had been present at Prospect Bluff, especially the discharged Colonial Marines, considered themselves free British subjects, and had been promised protection within British territory like the Bahamas by Nicolls.
The area includes the Riverbend Regional Park Historic District with Indian middens and a preserved battlefield from the Seminole War at the Loxahatchee River Battlefield Park adjacent to Riverbend.
North of this hummock, across what was originally open sawgrass, is a wooded area where Colonel Zachary Taylor made camp prior to the battle.
This was a great economic blow to the slave owners (slaves were expensive), and an ideological affront as well, leaving them insecure and angry.
Worth ordered his men out on "search and destroy" missions during the summer and drove the Seminoles out of much of northern Florida.
Carr and his Archaeological and Historical Conservancy (AHC) confirmed the location of the battlefield as well as numerous Seminole and pre-Seminole archaeological sites in Riverbend Park.
They were passing through a high hammock with oaks, pines, cabbage palms, and saw palmetto when a single shot rang out.
Education Clay County School District The Clay County School District holds pre-school to grade nine, and consists of one elementary school, one middle school, and one ninth-grade education building.
Outnumbered 4 to 1, with muskets against rifles, they held off the onslaught for a few crucial minutes before diving into the river themselves.
At the close of the war he went with some other Confederate soldiers to Mexico, "vowing never to return to the conquered South until she was free".
Meanwhile, the Americans were building boats on the Chattahoochee and gathering additional troops with which to destroy the British forts on the Apalachicola as well as the Red Stick villages.
She continued this duty supporting operations of the "Mosquito Fleet" through the general pacification of the Seminoles in August 1842.
Congress asking to annex the "District of Elotchaway [Alachua] in the Republic of East Florida" (much larger than the current county) as a territory to the U.S.
The government waited less than ten years before forcing the Treaty of Payne's Landing on the Native Americans in Florida, requiring them to move west of the Mississippi River.
"Don Jorge Clarke", his mixed-race common-law wife Flora Leslie and four children 7 to 15 years old are mentioned in an entry of the census taken at Fernandina in 1814.
The other residents of the New River area and of the Biscayne Bay country to the south fled to Key West.
Others from the Florida unit remained in settlements around the Fort which had become a symbol of slave insurrection.
Blake had successfully removed the Cherokee from Georgia and was presumed capable of the task of removing the Seminole.
Though it was named for General Edmund Pendleton Gaines, he did not arrive there with the 4th Infantry of the United States Army until 1816.
Much of the land is now agricultural, but portions of the battlefield have been developed, and it has been impacted by road construction.
Cultural references Riverbend Park is mentioned in the 2012 novel Torn by Leslie Ann Joy, who grew up in Jupiter Farms.
The archaeology report by Uzi Baram is on file with the Florida Division of Historical Resources of the Florida Department of State.
The Seminoles made at least two attempts to capture the howitzer, but were driven off after an hour-and-a-half.
Besides the supplies, the boat carried 20 sick soldiers, seven women, four children, and a guard of 20 armed soldiers.
In 1978, the Coast Guard restored the lighthouse to active service, one hundred years after it was decommissioned.
"Lower" Creeks were relatively accommodating of the whites, especially Indian agent Benjamin Hawkins, and began to adapt the sedentary, farming lifestyle that he recommended.
Education The first school in Fort McCoy was supposedly a log cabin that was built near the fort; and it is thought to have been abandoned during the Second Seminole War.
Francis, as well as the informal leader of the Red Sticks, was the most articulate Native American at the meeting.
Distant Drums is a 1951 American Florida Western film directed by Raoul Walsh and starring Gary Cooper.
At one time it was incorrectly identified as having taken place in modern Jonathan Dickinson State Park, with a marker placed there accordingly.
According to the Köppen climate classification, the Town of Fort White has a humid subtropical climate zone (Cfa).
After a bloody massacre and scalping, only seven survived, one woman, and six soldiers who escaped by jumping into the river and swimming to the opposite shore, where friendly Creeks helped them reach safety at Camp Crawford on December 2, 1817.
It is the location of the Kempfer Cattle ranch, Deseret Ranches of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the Deer Park Forestry Site of the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services.
The recoil of the cannon broke them loose from the barges, sending them into the water, and the sailors had to retreat.
Five of the most important of the Seminole chiefs, including Micanopy of the Alachua Seminoles, had not agreed to the move.
It is situated northeast of Ocala and lies between the towns of Sparr and Eureka on County Road 316 and is directly north of Silver Springs on County Road 315.
The next day, in order to secure his release, Osceola agreed to abide by the Treaty of Payne's Landing and to bring his followers in.
The battle convinced Jesup that defeating the Seminole Indians was impossible, and he later wrote a letter to Secretary of War Joel Poinsett requesting that the U.S.
The Jackson, named for Andrew Jackson, the seventh President of the United States, who was president at the time that the ship was commissioned.
History The regiment's commanding officer was Major Benjamin Putnam and companies were commanded by Lt.
To compensate, white-run trading stores were permitted on the reservation's outskirts to the north and west, letting the Indians obtain supplies and luxuries unavailable within the reservation.
The park is also the site of an ancient burial mound of the Ais Indian tribe which extended from Cape Canaveral to the Saint Lucie inlet.
Colonel Taylor’s detachment suffered 26 killed and 112 wounded and had to retreat back to Fort Basinger.
Until a treaty was signed establishing a reservation, the Indians were not sure of where they could plant crops and expect to be able to harvest them, and they had to contend with white squatters moving into land they occupied.
Seminole is a 1953 American Western film directed by Budd Boetticher and starring Rock Hudson, Barbara Hale, Anthony Quinn and Richard Carlson.
Early churches It is reported that in Florida State Gazetteer of 1886-1887 that Fort Braden had one Methodist church and one Baptist church.
Sovereignty over the land between the Flint River and today's border with Florida was an issue; the battle of nearby Fowltown, November 21–23, 1817, had been over this question.
Riverbend Park is a 680-acre (280 ha) park in the Jupiter Farms section of Jupiter, in Palm Beach County, Florida.
Army encampment on the north shore of the Caloosahatchee was fifteen miles from the mouth of river and constructed about 400 yards from the trading post which was left unguarded at the time of the battle.
Congress passed the Armed Occupation Act, which allowed settlers to homestead in the Florida Territory.
Seminole Indians began later that month attacking plantations throughout New Smryna, Florida and the rest of Mosquito County.
In 2000, the median income for a household in the town was $26,250, and the median income for a family was $28,000.
Some officers, including Captain Abner Doubleday, observed that the Seminoles easily avoided the Army patrols.
According to The Floridian newspaper of 1840, in Fort Gaines were the Chattahoochee Female College and the Independent College for Young Men, boarding schools (not colleges, as that word is traditionally used today).
Service history The first ship to be so named by the Navy, Poinsett, a sidewheel gunboat, was transferred from the War Department to the Navy Department in 1840 for service in the 2nd Seminole War.
At the battle of Chapultepec he earned the sobriquet of "the Fighting Doctor," as on two occasions led a charge of cavalry after the officer commanding had been killed or wounded.
Scott was killed by having splinters of fatwood driven into his body and set afire, "an excruciating form of execution that had its roots deep in the ancient traditions of the Creek Indians".
Bell, provisional secretary of the Florida territory and temporary agent to the Seminoles, prepared an estimate of the number of Indians in Florida.
And Raoul Walsh, who directed, did so in precisely the same way that he has been directing such pictures for a matter of some twenty-five years.
Due to its location near a swamp, a breeding site for mosquitos, many of those stationed at the fort contracted and died of malaria.
Demographics 2010 and 2020 census As of the 2020 United States census, there were 618 people, 214 households, and 164 families residing in the town.
Memoranda of a residence at the court of London comprising incidents official and personal from 1819-1825, including negotiations on the Oregon question, and other unsettled questions between the United States and Great Britain, Philadelphia : Lea & Blanchard.
The character of Major Harlan Degan is based on the real life General Thomas Jesup who eventually had to resign in disgrace over the incident.
On December 21, 1835 the Mosquito Roarers, along with other companies, arrived at an outpost on the Tomoka River named Rosetta (named for the Rosetta Plantation owned by John Moultrie).
Fort Taylor Fort Taylor, named after Army General and future President of the United States Zachary Taylor was located in Deer Park.
Black Seminoles were not recognized legally as part of the tribe, nor was their ownership or occupancy of land separately recognized.
Additionally, many Maroons and Black Seminoles displaced from Angola and communities like it by the Second Seminole War stayed in Florida and fought alongside the Seminole Indians, and were deported in kind to Indian territories in Oklahoma.
The town of Newnansville, Florida had grown up along the Bellamy Road near the natural bridge over the Santa Fe River.
Isaac Mayo, she was employed against the Seminoles until August 1842 when a large percentage of the tribe was relocated in the west.
The Indian Removal Act of 1830 allowed the government to do whatever was necessary to remove Native Americans from east of the Mississippi.
In his report of September 1, Clarke related the departure of MacGregor and submitted a plan for the disposition of Spanish troops to attack the enemy forces still remaining in Fernandina.
A small number of the surviving Red Sticks (see Peter McQueen) joined other Lower Creeks refugees and formed a community called Minatti at the headwaters of the Peace River near Lake Hancock.
It was one of the military outposts created during the Second Seminole War to assist Colonel Zachary Taylor's troops to confront and capture Seminole Indians and their allies in the central part of the Florida Territory in the Lake Okeechobee region.
The magazine area of the fort was located about 500 feet from the river bank, and consisted of an octagonal blockhouse holding the principal magazine.
There they organized under Bowlegs' chief black advisor Nero, built sturdy log cabins with fenced in gardens, and resumed drilling vigorously under a self-selected corps of officers, determined to have their revenge and defend their freedom once and for all against all comers.
In March, Jackson set out, constructed a new fort at Prospect Bluff and pillaged several Seminole towns on the way to St.
Samuel Humphreys designed these cutters for roles as diverse as fighting pirates, privateers, combating smugglers and operating with naval forces.
Indian Key Historic State Park is an island within the Florida State Park system, located just a few hundred yards southeast of U.S.
George Payne, who been working at the trading post, became the manager with full control in June, and stopped issuing whiskey to the Seminoles.
Noland as her commanding officer and sailed to the coast of Florida for operations against the Seminoles in the Second Seminole War.
Ambrister threw himself on the mercy of the court, while Arbuthnot maintained his innocence, saying that he had only been engaged in legal trade.
The Red Stick village at today's Tallahassee was burned and two Native American prisoners were captured there on 31 March, and the town of Miccosukee was taken the next day.
Clinch at Fort Scott, 1816–1818 The Red Sticks, newly supplied with arms and ammunition from the abandoned Negro Fort, felt that "widespread combat" was about to break out.
It is frequently visited by tourists and is the subject of an archaeological project to uncover the historic building foundations.
Chapelle also states that as of the time of his book's publication in 1949, a model of Wave resided in the New York Yacht Club's model room.
Excluded Freedmen argue that the Dawes Rolls were inaccurate and often classified persons with both Seminole and African ancestry as only Freedmen.
The second USS Phoenix was a schooner which served in the United States Navy from 1841 to 1853, seeing service in the Second Seminole War and the Mexican War.
See also Old Fort Braden School References Fort Braden School Florida State Library Collection in Tallahassee, Call No.
It is located on private property, owned currently by the Herold Family Trust, but was also owned in 1999 by the Herold Family that farmed the land, and later planted it as a tree farm, which is the current state of the property.
In some cases, a portion of that Florida land is still owned by the Seminole and Black Seminole descendants in Florida.
2nd – The United States will guarantee to the Creek nation, the integrity of all their territory eastwardly and northwardly of the said line to be run and described as mentioned in the first article.
Green Hill Chaires along with brothers Benjamin Chaires of Vendura Plantation and Thomas Peter of Woodlawn Plantation moved to Leon County establishing very large plantations.
By 1707, settlers based in Carolina and their Yamasee Indian allies had killed, carried off, or driven away most of the remaining native inhabitants during a series of raids across the Florida panhandle and down the full length of the peninsula.
The remaining Seminole, Mikasuki and Creek leaders in central and south Florida such as Billy Bowlegs (Holata Micco), Abiaka (Sam Jones) and Chipco were leery of their new neighbors.
In response came an attack on Fort Mims (1813), led by William Weatherford and Peter McQueen (Neamathla was not present), in which the Red Sticks killed over 250 men, women, and children.
Sometime between the 1890s and the first decade of the 1900s, a wooden building was built to serve as the school.
Another method was to put a layer of flour or a piece of white tissue paper on a pan in the oven for five minutes.
Most establishments serve pom, and often also “broodje pom” (pom on a bread roll), a derivation of the national dish.
Huff paste can be moulded into a variety of shapes, called coffyns or coffers, similar to a Cornish pasty.
Arrowhead Mills is an American brand of grain-based foods, including organic baking mixes, flours, beans, seeds and breakfast cereals.
Depending on context, the term may refer either to the dough itself or to finished desserts made from it.
Teams are evaluated by international judging committees on the basis of individual excellence in artisan baking, as well as on teamwork and time management.
References External links Coupe du Monde de la Boulangerie Website Archived 2019-09-22 at the Wayback Machine
The yu-dane method was then modified by Taiwanese pastry chef Yvonne Chen (Chinese: 陳郁芬), who published a book in 2007 called 65°C Bread Doctor (Chinese: 65°C 湯種麵包), borrowing the Japanese term 湯種 directly.
A brick flue (Russian: боров) in the attic, sometimes with a chamber for smoking food, is required to slow down the cooling of the stove.
From small independents to the world’s largest corporations, the 1,600+ member companies include food retailers, manufacturers, wholesalers, brokers, distributors, and other industry professionals.
It was introduced by the Portuguese–Jewish plantation owners as the Portuguese potato ("pomme de terre") oven dish.
In 1935, L'Illustrazione Italiana reported that the new factory had a conveyor belt measuring thirty metres and large industrial ovens to keep up with production.
Modern bakestones are usually circular with a cut-out handle and are made of cast iron or steel, approximately 1 cm (0.4 in) thick.
They moved to Los Angeles, where she sold her Cuban-style cakes and other foods from home, while her husband worked as a janitor.
Motta's contribution to panettone was to create a distinctive high dome shape for his bread that replaced the older style of flatter panettone as the standard.
For example, a cool oven has temperature set to 200 °F (93 °C), and a slow oven has a temperature range from 300–325 °F (149–163 °C).
Ford began by growing wheat on the High Plains using organic methods at a time when chemical fertilizers and pesticides were becoming standard in U.S.
Sponsorship In the past, the company has sponsored "bull riding events" and NASCAR races at Michigan International Speedway.
The gelatinized roux is generally used at a moderate temperature and apparently also contributes to slightly greater rise during baking.
The chef then stored this pre-mixed biscuit batter on ice in his kitchen, enabling him to bake fresh biscuits quickly on the train every day.
In 1994, the human food business was spun off to Ralcorp Holdings, operating as Ralston Foods, which then sold its branded breakfast cereal lineup to General Mills and its Continental Baking division (Wonder Bread and Twinkies) to Interstate Bakeries.
The Bacon Explosion's creators produced a cookbook featuring the recipes which ultimately won the 2010 Gourmand World Cookbook Awards for "Best Barbecue Book in the World".
The stuffing is traditionally made using dry fruits like raisins, coconut, almonds, and cashews, along with khoa, semolina (rava/sooji), cardamom (elaichi), sugar, and pistachio.
The show is an opportunity for companies to grow their businesses with networking, buying, selling, and an abundance of educational experiences.
A benefit of these early pies was that meat could be preserved for several months and the food contained within was protected from contamination.
As an acid, cream of tartar with heat reduces sugar crystallization in invert syrups by helping to break down sucrose into its monomer components - fructose and glucose in equal parts.
Sir William Bilsland LLD (17 March 1847 – 27 August 1921) was a Scottish baker who owned one of Scotland's largest bakeries, and was Lord Provost of Glasgow.
Cherrybrook Kitchen was founded in response to the growing number of children and adults diagnosed with food allergies.
"Effect of different oils and sugar syrups on the properties of tray kadayif (traditional Turkish dessert)".
Like Yorkshire pudding or David Eyre's pancake, instead of a raising agent, it employs high moisture content to create steam during cooking to puff the pastry.
This mixture is sometimes mistakenly made with vinegar and sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), which actually react to neutralize each other, creating carbon dioxide and a sodium acetate solution.
Nathaniel Whetham (1604 – 16 September 1668) was an English baker and politician who sat in the House of Commons between 1654 and 1659.
Andrew Whitley in his book Bread Matters: The State of Modern Bread and a Definitive Guide to Baking Your Own criticises the CBP for the inferior flavour and texture of the bread made in this way.
Tabaheg (Balochi: تباهگ) is a traditional Balochi food in which the meat is salted and dried with sour pomegranate and salt.
Awards In 1939, Angelo Motta was awarded Knight of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre, a prestigious Catholic chivalric order.
History "Scalding" flour, especially rye flour, for baking is a technique that has been used for centuries and is traditional in China to make steamed buns.
Ekberg 1852−1952 (1952) Rafael Hertzberg, Helsingfors för trehundra år sedan och i våra dagar (1888) Bo Lönnqvist, Bakelser i Helsingfors.
It was developed by Bill Collins, George Elton and Norman Chamberlain of the British Baking Industries Research Association at Chorleywood in 1961.
Maine Grains is an American supplier of stone milled flour, rolled oats, and other grains for culinary use.
In November 2015, Pinnacle Foods announced it would be acquiring Boulder Brands for around $710 million, as part of the company’s strategy to expand its health and wellness services.
The 2010 US winner The Essential New York Times Cookbook: Classic Recipes for a New Century by Amanda Hesser also contained the recipe for the Bacon Explosion.
The school is located at a Grade II listed former fire station dating back to the 1850s at the Welbeck Estate.
In the 1960s, as supermarkets began selling ready meals, cauliflower cheese was invoked by Elizabeth David as a symbol of good British cooking as she asked wistfully whether a day would come that "it's going to be clever to serve some relaxed English dish like cauliflower cheese".
Use Before use, the frozen dough is slowly (12-18 hours) thawed to the temperatures of 1 °C to 4 °C while avoiding dehydration.
See also Media related to Pasta al forno at Wikimedia Commons Al forno Anelletti al forno Lasagna Pastitsio References Bibliography Sicilia (in Italian).
The final vote on amalgamation was passed with a 71% majority of the association's membership in favour of the change.
In August 1644 he was described as 'Commander in chiefe' and 'valliant and faithfull' in the first siege of Banbury Castle.
His startling success saw his company expand considerably during the interwar years, with Motta Foods introducing new bread, including a celebratory Easter bread known as a colomba pasquale, a dove-shaped yeast bread that uses panettone yeast but contains less fruit.
The acquisition made ConAgra the largest private-label packaged food business in the United States at that time.
In Spain and Latin America, churros are made of fried choux pastry, sugared and dipped in a thick hot chocolate for breakfast.
Rosa Porto retired from baking in the 1990s; her children and grandchildren continue to run the business, now with over a thousand employees.
Only the latter is indigenous, and although all plant parts are edible, only the underground part of the main stem is used as an ingredient in preparing pom.
In 2019, Hain Celestial sold the Arrowhead Mills and SunSpire brands to Chicago-based Hometown Food Company for US$15 million in a transaction that included the Hereford, Texas manufacturing plant and its employees.
Production The modern commercial production of potassium carbonate is by reaction of potassium hydroxide with carbon dioxide: 2 KOH + CO2 → K2CO3 + H2O From the solution crystallizes the sesquihydrate K2CO3·1.5H2O ("potash hydrate").
German pumpernickel is traditionally made from a sourdough starter, although modern pumpernickel loaves often use commercial yeasts, sometimes spiked with citric acid or lactic acid to inactivate the amylases in the rye flour.
Founded in 2009 by Alison Swan Parente, the school aims to teach the 'lost skills' of artisan food production.
was founded by Robert Atkins in order to promote the low-carbohydrate packaged foods of the Atkins diet.
Fredrik Edvard Ekberg (29 June 1825 – 10 April 1891) was a Finnish pastry chef and baker who founded Café Ekberg in Helsinki.
Arms References External links 1965 documentary Bilsland Bread, National Library of Scotland Derelict bakery building prior to demolition
Conversely, a wetter and warmer starter has more bacterial activity and less yeast growth, with more lactic acid relative to acetic acid.
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayad described it as a great achievement and honor for the Palestinian people: "This great achievement completely depended on Palestinian products, mainly olive oil.
Awards In 2002, the Bread Bakers Guild of America awarded Suas its Golden Baguette in recognition of his contributions to the artisan baking industry.
He left his manorial home for a small tenancy on the estate and remained there until his death in 1668 at the age of about 64.
In 1889, Pillsbury and its five mills on the banks of the Mississippi River were purchased by a British company.
History According to General Mills, Bisquick was invented in 1930 after one of their top sales executives met an innovative train dining car chef, on a business trip.
The noodles are cooked in salt water and drained, crumbled cheese (túró), chopped, fried, crispy bacon, topped with thick Hungarian sour cream (tejföl) and lightly salted.
Bowden described being met by "warmth and elaborate courtesy" by the two released men, who he described as "uneducated, unworldly, and dirt poor".
The gelatinized flour is more stable than normal bread dough, which normally tends to crystallize, creating stale bread.
Bakers Pride works in partnership with foodservice dealers and awards dealerships who maintain a commercial showroom, engineering department, or warehouse.
The remainder of the purchase price was financed under the Company's revolving credit facility." The rumor of the deal broke in October 2015.
It became known after being posted on the BBQ Addicts blog in 2008, and spread to the mainstream press with numerous stories discussing the dish.
After the sales executive complimented the chef on his deliciously fresh biscuits, the dining car chef shared that he used a pre-mixed biscuit batter he created consisting of lard, flour, baking powder and salt.
After baking, the pastry is brushed with egg yolk to give it a golden color, and later filled with a mixture of meat and spices and then baked.
A year later, Isabella Beeton included a recipe for "Cauliflowers with Parmesan Cheese" in her original, 1861 edition of Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management.
History Pâte brisée is, according to the French-American Cultural Foundation, a classic of French pastry.
The Polish dish is usually cooked in salted water, whereas in Belarusian and Lithuanian cuisines kapytki is baked first, then stewed or boiled in water.
On 9 September of that year, the School's new buildings were opened by Alderman Francis Tonsley JP, president of the National Association of Master Bakers, supported by the mayors of Northampton and Southwark, the chairman of the Institute and its governing body.
Porto's Bakery & Cafe locations grew to include shops currently operating in Burbank, Downey, Buena Park, West Covina and Northridge, with a seventh site scheduled to open in 2025 at the Downtown Disney District at the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim.
The frozen dough is used for home baking and by small bakeries, especially the supermarket deli ones, due to the simplicity of baking using the pre-made dough, especially for more complicated products (Danish pastries, croissants).
In 1985 it made its first appearance as a simple-to-make mix requiring no measuring, kneading or rising time to bake.
Etymology Nappage is a French word, meaning 'coating' or 'topping', and deriving from the word napper, meaning "to cover something with sauce".
Chef Jeff Pond of A4 Pizza stated he always used Bakers Pride ovens which, along with Blodgett and Marsal & Sons, are the most popular pizza ovens in the New York region.
Ekberg opened his first bakery in 1852 in Kruununhaka, Helsinki, which moved four years later to the Kiseleffska building on Aleksanterinkatu.
Unlike éclairs, which are also made with choux pastry, chouquettes are bite-sized and the hollow inside is not filled.
In the UK, cauliflower cheese is often eaten as a side dish, particularly with roast dinners, and at times as a main to accommodate vegetarian diets.
Frozen dough is dough that have been frozen in order to decouple the dough preparation and baking processes of breadmaking (without freezing, the dough must be used quickly once prepared).
11 million adults and children are affected by peanut, dairy, egg and nut allergens, while approximately one in 133 Americans has Celiac Disease.
History Potassium carbonate is the primary component of potash and the more refined pearl ash or salt of tartar.
Preparation Preparing a Bacon Explosion "requires the minimum of culinary talent" and the ingredient list is short.
Also, there was Gorilla Milk—"...you'll go ape for Gorilla Milk, a glass in the morning and you'll swing all day"—a protein additive that turned milk into an instant breakfast.
In 2019, Los Angeles Times referred to Porto's as "the most beloved bakery in all of Los Angeles." Personal life Rosa and Raúl Porto married in Cuba in 1955.
Society volunteers grow the starter, dry it on trays into thin sheets, and grind the crumbly material into a coarse powder.
In 1907 King Edward VII created him a baronet, as Sir William Bilsland, Baronet of Park Circus, for his services to Glasgow.
Origin Beggar's chicken is very popular in China, with many regions claiming it as traditionally their own.
One content analysis of 25 introductory and advanced texts found that Keith's eras were reproduced in all but four.
The strands are also known as kadayif noodles, string kadayif, wire kadayif, tray kadayif, and tel kadayıf, although some of these names are also used for finished desserts.
Before the 19th century, bakestones were made of stone; usually oval and of schistose steatite (soapstone), slate or very fine micaceous flaggy sandstone about 1+1⁄2 inches (4 cm) thick.
The baker must refrain from kneading doughs for pastry or quick breads such as muffins, scones, and American-style biscuits in order to prevent the development of gluten, which would give the finished products a tough, rubbery texture.
Biography In 2022, Kelly was gifted a horse box from the 1960s for her 18th birthday which she converted into a bakery truck.
In one, a beggar stole a chicken from a farm but having no pot or utensils, he wrapped the bird in lotus leaves and packed clay or mud around it, set it in a hole where he had lit a fire, and buried it.
The country was first created as the Tajik Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, an autonomous republic within the Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic.
The word lès (French pronunciation: [lɛ] , and [lɛz‿] with liaison) is an archaic French preposition meaning "near", "nearby", or "next to".
1932–1937), English footballer Billy Coutu (1892–1977), Canadian NHL player Billy Cowan (born 1938), American MLB player Billy Cowan (footballer) (fl.
Distorted by the interconnected goals of Soviet ethnic policies and the rise of Tajik nationalism, the meaning of "Tajik" has been altered in both Tajik and Russian academic discourse, throughout the Soviet and post-Soviet eras.
UNGEGN aims to emphasize the importance of the standardization of geographical names at the national and international levels, to show the benefits of this, and to assist countries in standardization of geographical names where it is lacking.
As of 2002 some 28,000 people identify as Khanty, primarily in Tyumen Oblast, which includes the Khanty–Mansi Autonomous Okrug.
(The Romans added the Latin nominative endings -ia and -ius.) A spelling with an initial "I" later became dominant, possibly because of a resemblance to the Latin word ignis "fire".
Welsh-Canadian novelist Jo Walton is credited with coining the term "Tiffany problem" in 2019 to refer to this phenomenon.
The community was very active in Venice with the notable members such as Anna Notaras (the daughter of Loukas Notaras, the last megas doux of the Byzantine Empire), Thomas Flanginis (the founder of the Flanginian School) and many others.
It is sometimes a given name (or "first name"), but more often it is a hypocorism (affectionate variation of a personal name) which takes the place of a given name, usually Douglas.
Ancient Greek and Roman statues are often portrayed as white, due to their modern appearance, despite evidence of being colorfully painted.
Lipsitt of Brown University and further expanded with the help of Dickson's friends, mostly from newspapers and phone books.
Since the early 20th century, the most common English spelling is Nathaniel, a change likely influenced by the popularity of other Biblical names ending in -iel (e.g.
The name was among the 1,000 most popular names for girls born in the United States at different times between 1880 and 1935.
The term was coined by Saul Kripke in his 1970 lecture series at Princeton University, later published as the book Naming and Necessity.
Giles (1892–1984), US Army Air Force lieutenant general Barney Hill (1922–1969), an American who, with his wife, claimed to have been kidnapped by aliens Barney F.
Ademollo, F., 2011, The 'Cratylus' of Plato: a Commentary, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press Annas, J., 1982, 'Knowledge and language: the Theaetetus and Cratylus', in Schofield and Nussbaum 1982: 95–114.
Either the Franks took their name from a war leader called Francus, or else their name referred to their wild manners (feritas morum).
In popular culture Raphael, along with many other prominent angels, appears in John Milton's Paradise Lost, in which he is assigned by God to re-warn Adam concerning the sin of eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
In books and other works, the subtitle is an explanatory title added by the author to the title proper of a work.
Ezekiel is a masculine Hebrew language name, meaning "God's Strength." It can be used as both a given name and a surname.
4 was drafted, concerning the publication of toponymic guidelines for map and other editors: This resolution presents a checklist on the contents of guidelines and recommends that the toponymic guidelines submitted by Austria should serve as a sample of format and contents.
Из исследований по праславянскому словообразованию: генезис модели на * -i ninъ, *- janinъ // Этимология.
They are also referred to as "black Moors" to differentiate them from the "white Moors" who enslaved them, and from black Mauritanians who have not been enslaved by the Moors.
Universe, husband of Jayne Mansfield Mickey Hart (born 1943), American drummer with The Grateful Dead Mickey Harte (fl.
Hammond has pointed out that the names Graeci and Hellenes spread from contact with small tribes or with Graia, a defunct Greek polis in the Gulf of Euboea.
Analysis of theonyms has been useful in understanding the connections of Indo-European languages and possibly their religion.
It may be used a diminutive of any name containing "fred", regardless of origin, as with Freddy Adu and Freddie Benson, both Ghanaians named Fredua.
Therefore, especially in the context of cybersecurity, for a file in a file format that has a magic number, which is a distinctive sequence of bytes affixed to a file's header, the file's true nature should be determined by checking the magic number.
Dorotheus or Dorotheos is a male given name from Greek Dōrótheos (Δωρόθεος), meaning "God's Gift", from δῶρον (dōron), "gift" + θεός (theós), "god".
series See also Iggy's Reckin' Balls, a game for the Nintendo 64 Italian Greyhound, a dog breed nicknamed the Iggy
Moreover, many languages have the same word for both the country of the Netherlands and the region of the Low Countries, e.g., French (les Pays-Bas), Spanish (los Países Bajos) and Portuguese (Países Baixos).
His studies include general and Russian onomastics, toponymy and lexicology, forensic linguistic expertise, Slavic studies and speech culture, Russian language in computer technologies.
Проблема омонимов подлинных и ложных и семантическая типология // Теория и практика этимологических исследований.
Since the second half of the 20th century, "Early Netherlandish painting", has replaced the term "Flemish Primitives", despite the equivalents remaining current in French, Dutch and other languages; the latter is now only seen in English text poorly-translated from those other languages.
Bush might have lost the election, meaning that the 43rd President might have been Al Gore or Ralph Nader instead.
One reviewer described the term as having "the inherent, unwieldy power to incite black Americans with such intense divisiveness and fervor" as few others.
This incomplete bibliography lists 1527 titles and contains an English language biographical sketch of Rudnyckyj by Olha Woycenko.
Frans is an Afrikaans, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, Icelandic, Norwegian, and Swedish given name, sometimes as a short form of François or Franciscus.
A son of Passhur, one of the biblical priests who had taken a pagan wife but repented according to Ezra 10:22.
Even when the Byzantine Empire was reduced to only a shadow of its former self, the Church, as an institution, exercised so much influence both inside and outside the imperial frontiers as never before.
TV series Cheers Norm Sherry (1931–2021), American catcher, manager, and coach in Major League Baseball Norm Smith (1915–1973), Australian rules football player and coach Norm Smith (footballer born 1946), Australian rules footballer Norm Smith (rugby union) (c.
Hellenes and barbarians In the following centuries, Hellene typically contrasted with barbarian, representing the uncivilized.
A multiple-use name or anonymity pseudonym is a name used by many different people to protect anonymity.
Notable bearers of the name include: Amenirdisu or Amyrtaeus, only pharaoh of the Twenty-eighth dynasty Amenirdis I, God's Wife of Amun during the Twenty-fifth dynasty Amenirdis II, Divine Adoratrice of Amun during the Twenty-fifth dynasty == Sources ==
Microsoft's Windows NT's native file system, NTFS, and the later ReFS, also store the file name as a single string; again, the convention of using suffixes to simulate extensions continued, for compatibility with existing versions of Windows.
Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb and Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance).
Another kind of subtitle, often used in the past, is the alternative title, also called alternate title, traditionally denoted and added to the title with the alternative conjunction "or" – hence its name.
The Old English cognate of the name is Ōsgār (the given name Oscar is however thought to be of Irish origin).
In: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Statistics Division (ed.): Manual for the standardization of geographical names.
As the Iranologist John Perry notes, this has resulted in a situation where "the tail often wags the dog", where a small or unimportant part of something is becoming too important.
Other derivatives of this word such as Farang (noun), Farangi (adjective), and compound words like Farangi Ma'āb (literally 'French-styled'), are used with lower frequency in Modern Persian, and without any negative connotation.
Theonymy, the study of divine proper names, is a branch of onomastics, the study of the etymology, history, and use of proper names.
It was previously named Porter's Spring, after controversial Mormon gunfighter Orrin Porter Rockwell.
Career Born in Przemyśl, Habsburg Galicia, in what is today eastern Poland near the border with Ukraine, he received his M.A.
Fran is a Spanish, Italian, Croatian and Albanian male name or a common short form of the English names Frances and Francis.
Larson Ned Ludd Netochka Nezvanova The Wallys John and Jane Doe See also Collective pseudonym I'm Spartacus, pop culture usage Kilroy was here signature Placeholder name == References ==
2 (The Peace Disc) released in 2000, the song "Hello" contains the lyrics "I'm looking for a big yellow in 6-inch stilettos".
Doug is a male personal name (or, depending on which definition of "personal name" one uses, part of a personal name).
It is also derived from the Slavic name Barni, the pet form of Barnim, which means "defender", and it was formerly a popular name throughout Pomerania.
Evidence of the use of the term Graikos can be found in the works of Priscus, a historian of the 5th century AD.
Britt, American music professor Catherine Britt (born 1984), Australian country music artist Elton Britt (1913–1972), American country music yodeler and singer King Britt (born 1968), American DJ and producer Politics Charles Robin Britt (born 1942), U.S.
The term Moor is an exonym used in European languages to designate primarily the Muslim populations of North Africa (the Maghreb) and the Iberian Peninsula (particularly al-Andalus) during the Middle Ages.
When they were asked to declare their nationality when the Soviet Union was defining its borders, there was a lot of uncertainty, such as in Khujand, where its people did not know if they were Tajiks or Uzbeks.
See also Wili (disambiguation), includes a list of people with the name Wili Willi, a given name Willye, given name William (name) Willies (disambiguation), includes a list of people with the name Willies All pages with titles containing willie All pages with titles containing Willy
The Oxford English Dictionary reported that the word appeared in a Funk & Wagnall’s dictionary in 1921, defined as "a surname indicative of an occupation: as, Glass, the glazier".
Chairman of the Board of the Guild of Linguistic Experts on Documentation and Information Disputes (2001).
Frangistan (Persian: فرنگستان) was a term used by Easterners and Persians in particular, during the Middle Ages and later historical periods to refer to Western or Latin Europe.
She explained that the name Tiffany derives from Theophania, a name for girls in medieval England and France.
The Selkup language, also known as Selkups, Chumyl' Khumyt, Shöl Khumyt, Shösh Gulla, Syusugulla, or Ostyak Samoyed, is a Uralic Samoyedic language with perhaps two thousand or more native speakers.
People Thea Andrews (born 1973), Canadian journalist Thea Astley (1925–2004), Australian writer Thea Beckman (1923–2004), Dutch writer Thea Bock (1938–2025), German politician Thea Bowman (1937–1990), American nun Thea Dorn (born 1970), German writer Thea E.
(who belong to the country or are related to it), or also foreigners who have white skin, blond hair or European appearance.
Furthermore, UNGEGN facilitates and encourages the discussion of the results of work on national standardization and arising issues, the dissemination of best practices, and a wide user community awareness of nationally authorized geographical names.
Marine tortured and killed at the Battle of Iwo Jima Andre Iguodala (born 1984), American basketball player Michael Ignatieff (born 1947), historian and Canadian politician Iggy Jones (c.
The Catholic Church accordingly links Raphael with Michael and Gabriel as saints whose intercession can be sought through prayer.
Usage It is used in the Gheg dialect of Albanian to refer to Southern Slavs such as Serbs, Macedonians, Montenegrins, to a lesser extent Croats and Bosniaks, and also simply non-Albanians such as Greeks and Italians.
Figures in the Old Testament, which is transliterated from Hebrew, have their names rendered as Nethanel in English whereas those in the New Testament, which is translated from Greek, have theirs rendered as Nathanael.
Notable people with the name include: Billy & Louie, British contestant on The Voice UK series 13 Billy the Artist (1964–2022), American artist and writer Billy the Axeman (active c.
Ethnonyms with the same origin are also found in Romance languages of the Balkans, such as Dalmatian and Eastern Romance languages (c.f.
Grant Mormon* Mormon is a prophet who gave his name to the Book of Mormon, which in turn produced the nickname of Latter-day Saints.
Huinca or wingka is an exonym used by indigenous Mapuche to refer to non-Mapuche, white Chileans and Argentines.
Junior, William Makepeace Thackeray's pen name for Catherine, his first novel Other uses IKey, an American computer parts manufacturer Ikeys, nickname is University of Cape Town Ikey Tigers, a University of Cape Town rugby union team See also Kike (disambiguation)
Non-rigid designators are defined by contrast with Kripke's notion of a rigid designator, which picks out the same thing uniquely in every possible world; while there are possible worlds in which the 43rd President of the United States is Al Gore instead of George W.
1785), African-American slave accused of treason Billy Sleeth (born 1979), American soccer player Billy Smart (disambiguation), several people Billy Smiley (born 1957), American Christian music producer, songwriter, and musician Billy Smith (disambiguation), several people Billy Smyth (c.
It is often used by both men and women whose names contain the Germanic element -fred, such as Frederick, Frederica, and Alfred.
Raphael first appears in two works of this period, 1 Enoch, a collection of originally independent texts from the 3rd century BC, and the Book of Tobit, from the early 2nd century BC.
The name originated during the Hundred Years War (1337–1453) between England and France, when English soldiers were notorious among the French for their frequent use of profanity and in particular the interjection "God damn".
Palmu, main character of the Palmu novels and film adaptations See also All pages with titles beginning with Frans Fransen Franz (given name)
In time, the Mugat began adopting the customs, languages, and the Islamic faith of their Central Asian neighbors.
δ ('d') and τ ('t') as both involve "compression and [the] stopping of the power of the tongue" when pronounced, they are most appropriate for words indicating a lack or stopping of motion.
Ethnonyms can be divided into two categories: exonyms (where the name of the ethnic group has been created by another group of people) and autonyms or endonyms (self-designation; where the name is created and used by the ethnic group itself).
It may refer to: Duncan Dunc Annan (1895–1981), American National Football League player Dunc “Turbo” Dindas (fl.
One of the first modern multiple-use names was that of Nicolas Bourbaki, which first appeared in 1935.
For example, when Georgetown became part of Washington, D.C., the streets in Georgetown were renamed as an extension of Washington's street-naming convention.
Heber "had baptized many of the city’s early residents as a missionary in England before they immigrated." Henrieville Henrieville, Utah, in Garfield County, named for James Henrie, the first LDS stake president in its area.
This often occurs with names, terms, or practices that, although historically accurate, feel out of place because of modern associations.
It was common for lighter-skinned African Americans to hold "paper bag parties," which admitted only those whose complexion was lighter than that of a brown paper bag .
It is often short for Mildred, Amelia, Emily, Millicent, Camilla, Camila, Camille, Camile, Emilia, etc.
1525 BC), pharaoh and founder of the eighteenth dynasty of Egypt Amasis II (or Ahmose II), (reigned c.
It's also approximates "my heart" in Hebrew, and is a common Jewish given name as well as surname, in this case often a diminutive of Leibowitz.
In 2023, Judd competed in the seventh season of The Amazing Race Australia with her sister, Kate Twigley.
She was the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) at the University of Greenwich and Chair of the University Schools Trust.
Clay Gonzalez entitled "Our Place." During her first year helming the university, President Stewart Gonzalez launched several high-profile projects.
Walker was awarded Fellowship of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 1986, and appointed MBE in the 1997 Birthday Honours for services to Healthcare whilst working at St George's, University of London.
Smith, Edward, The Story of the English Jacobins : Being an Account of the Persons Implicated in the Charges of High Treason, 1794.
"Utility of ultrasound in the assessment of swallowing and laryngeal function: A rapid review and critical appraisal of the literature", International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders 56 (1), 174–204.
She has appeared in the Discovery television series "The Baby Human"; the NOVA series "The Mind"; "The Power of Ideas" on PBS; and "The Secret Life of the Brain," also on PBS.
She experimented with different glazes and decorating materials, experiencing technical difficulties in her early works.
Phyllis Schneider is a developmental psycholinguist in the University of Alberta Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders at the University of Alberta Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine.
The model shows that infants use their computational abilities to "crack" the speech code and that infants' social skills play an important role in learning.
He passed his Abitur at the Graues Kloster in Berlin and studied medicine at the Universities of Berlin and Heidelberg.
She was director of the Tucson Little Theatre in Arizona, the Brattle Theatre in Massachusetts, the Kalamazoo Civic Theatre in Michigan, and, from 1952 to 1961, managing director of the Manistee Summer Theatre.
In 2011, Judd joined the Nine Network as host of Victorian-based travel program Postcards and continued in the role until 2020.
(An earlier Belgian king, King Leopold III, had a Belgian second wife, Lilian, Princess of Réthy, who was not given the title of queen).
Throughout her career, Chapman has received major federal, state, and private research support to advance the treatment of veterans, sports-related brain injuries, concussions, autism, schizophrenia, adolescent reasoning, and brain development, among others.
in speech-language pathology from the University of Pittsburgh School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences.
Career Dornan was the first speech pathology graduate at the University of Queensland, and the first speech pathologist to work at the Royal Brisbane Hospital.
His father was Sir Richard Paget, 1st Baronet, a Conservative member of parliament; his mother was Caroline Isabel Surtees, the daughter of Henry Surtees, another MP, of County Durham.
Dimity Dornan AO is a speech pathologist, author, social entrepreneur, bionics advocate, researcher, and businesswoman in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
Helikopter, Tak trafiłem do Słowian/So kam ich unter die Slawen, prose, translation by Marek Śnieciński Wrocław 2016, Afront, Oświęcim.
Zangari (Eds.), Practically speaking: Language, literacy, and academic development for students with AAC needs (pp.
During World War I, Gutzmann ran a treatment centre for traumatized soldiers who had developed speech and voice disorders.
Helms-Estabrooks was a co-founder of Academy of Neurologic Communication Disorders and Sciences (ANCDS), and served as president from 2003 until 2004.
Prelock was inspired to pursue a career in speech pathology after her younger brother, James, was born with Down syndrome.
She later made SpeechVive's remote calibration software and training available free in order to make it more accessible for speech-language pathologists and their patients.
Her research elucidates novel approaches to maximize cognitive function in people with healthy brains as well as those with brain injury, stroke, ADHD, autism, schizophrenia, substance abuse, and progressive brain diseases like Alzheimer's disease.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; Haneman, Frederick T.
Publications "Die Laryngoskopie und Rhinoskopie mit Einschluss der Allgemeinen Diagnostik und Therapie," Berlin, 1890 Die Nasen-, Rachen- und Kehlkopfkrankheiten, Leipzig 1894 Die Bauchrednerkunst (with H.
A travelling scholarship is awarded in her name to a student undertaking speech therapy studies at the University of Queensland.
From 1969 to 1998, she was director of the Easter Seal Rehabilitation Center in Wheeling, and served three years as head of the West Virginia Easter Seal Society, and on the executive board of the National Easter Seal Society.
Light has been the principal investigator on more than 20 federally funded research grants to improve outcomes for individuals who use AAC (totaling more than $10 million).
Recognition Kuhl was one of six scientists invited to the White House in 1997 to make a presentation at President and Mrs.
Birgitta Sigrid Maria Sahlén (born 29 January 1953) is a Swedish speech and language pathologist who is a professor at Lund University.
In 1982, she was presented with an honorary Doctor of Law degree at Wheeling University's commencement ceremonies.
The Duke resolved to find some way to manage his stammer, and engaged Logue in 1926 after being introduced to him by Lord Stamfordham.
Career Robbins holds teaching positions at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and serves as associate director of research at the William S.
She was a key member of the Sri Lankan Cleft Lip and Palate Project, and was Assistant Director of the Eurocleft Speech Group.
Kleffner Clinical Career Award An award for excellence in speech-language pathology has been presented annually in his name since 1986.
Bronwyn Hemsley is an Australian speech pathologist, head of speech pathology at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS) and co-lead of the UTS Disability Research Network.
In 1922, he authored The Heart of the Anti-Vivisectionist which criticized arguments of the anti-vivisection movement.
Rosemary Sage is a British professor of education with a focus on communication and special educational needs.
F.A.N.-Verlag, Leipzig 2000 Mitternachtsgesänge, Die verlorenen Lieder des Jooschen Engelke 1918 – 1962, Participation, 2010, Conträr Music Chance For The Link Of A Chain, CD, DICE, 2017, Dieter Kalka - Bandoneon L.E.IPZIGER LIEDERSZENE der 1980er Jahre, CD/DVD and book.
Frankel was one of many names mentioned as a potential candidate for the New York's 29th congressional district election, 2010.
When his future wife caught his eye, "I saw someone who was incredibly attractive and pretty drunk, and that was my sweet spot!", he explained.
Government officials who considered him to be the most dangerous man in Britain continued to hound him even after his acquittal.
After graduating from boarding school in Margate, he spent a year in Germany before apprenticing at bicycle company Bluemel Brothers for three years.
He was also known for working, in a primary role, that established the importance of research into the social and behavioural aspects of illness in childhood.
His diagnostic acumen and therapeutic skill with voice disordered cases have earned the respect of several ear, nose and throat specialists who increasingly referred cases of this nature to him and the speech therapists that he had trained.
Other books Tan's third novel, The Hundred Secret Senses, was a departure from the first two novels, in focusing on the relationships between sisters, inspired, partly, by one of the half-siblings Tan sponsored to the United States.
On May 10, Van der Sloot accepted the amount of $15,000 by wire transfer from Birmingham to his account in the Netherlands, following a cash payment of $10,000 that was videotaped by undercover investigators in Aruba.
Her father who was a draftsman did not approve of his only daughter having a minds of her own, but that is who she was.
During Prelock's studies, she worked on a National Institutes of Health (NIH) fellowship and balanced her academic responsibilities with raising her young son, incorporating him into her research on cognition and communication.
Diagnosing poor co-ordination between the Duke's larynx and thoracic diaphragm, Logue prescribed a daily hour of vocal exercises.
In 1991, she became an assistant professor in the communication sciences and disorders program at the University of Kentucky.
Smith, William Tyler (1846a), "(The Treatment of Stammering by Unqualified Practitioners)", The Lancet, Vol.47, No.1185, (16 May 1846), pp.557-558.
One use was for voice actors to be able to have an exact copy, or clone, of their voice to use in their work.
"Aphasia with predominantly subcortical lesion sites: description of three capsular/putaminal aphasia syndromes".
She was initially chair of the Department of Communication Studies, and later associate dean of the College of Arts and Sciences.
Byng was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 1991 and was awarded an OBE in 2005.
Early life Elizabeth Catherine Molphy (later Usher) was born on 16 November 1911 in Lilydale, Victoria.
Madeline Esther "Madge" Skelly (May 9, 1903 – May 27, 1993), later Madge Skelly-Hakanson, was an American actress, playwright, director, college professor, speech pathologist and audiologist.
As a result of her research, she was elected a fellow of the American Speech–Language–Hearing Association and received the Eve Kassirer Award for Outstanding Achievement.
Education Hemsley obtained a Bachelor of Applied Science in speech pathology from the University of Sydney in 1988.
Diagnostik, Berlin 1899 Prophylaxe der Hals- und Nasenkrankheiten, Munich 1900 Intonationsstörungen und Stimmverlust, Berlin 1902 References External links Works by or about Theodor Simon Flatau at the Internet Archive --
Enderby was chair and Vice President of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists, of which she is a Fellow, in 1993–1994 and President of the Society for Research and Rehabilitation from 1994 to 1996.
She was made Duchess of Brabant and a Princess of Belgium on 8 November 1999 (published on 13 November 1999 and effective from 4 December 1999).
Ripich joined the faculty of Case Western Reserve University in 1982, and was elevated to a full professorship in 1994.
McAuliffe's research has been funded by the Health Research Council of New Zealand, and she has served on the HRC grant assessment committee and on the Canterbury Medical Research Foundation scientific assessment committee.
Nan Bernstein Ratner is a professor in the Department of Hearing and Speech Sciences at the University of Maryland, College Park.
She was posthumously inducted into the Association of Veterans Affairs Speech-Language Pathologists (AVASLP) Hall of Fame in 2002.
Hemsley has also been noted for her critical stance on gestalt language processing (GLP), a position that has been controversial within the autism community.
Karen Bryan OBE FRCSLT, is a speech therapist, and Vice Chancellor of York St John University since April 2020.
She has been invited to give presentations about resources for the treatment of communications disorders North America, Europe, China, and Korea Kuster organized and chaired ISAD Conference from 1998-2012.
Thinking that he was able to cure stammering, he sought wider experience in a provincial tour, and finally in 1827 settled in Regent Street, London.
She gained a master's degree in Communication Pathology in 1998 and, in 2018, a PhD in Behavioural Science and Health from UCL.
doi:10.1186/s13643-015-0077-4 Allen, J.E., Clunie, G.M., Slinger, C., Haines, J., Mossey-Gaston, C., Zaga, C.J., Scott, B., Wallace, S., and Govender, R.
Charles Sidney Bluemel (17 July 1884 – 17 December 1960) was a British–American psychiatrist and pioneer of speech pathology, best known for his research on stuttering.
On 13 June 1981, Wray became a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in recognition of her contribution to speech therapy in the 1981 Birthday Honours.
ISAD Conferences The ISAD Conference is a yearly event and copies of the entire conference from 1998-2026 are archived.
In 1955 he succeeded Professor James Spence on his death, to conduct research in the Department of Child Health, becoming the first James Spence professor of child health.
In November 2019, alongside RCSLT President Nick Hewer, Gadhok was awarded an honorary degree by Plymouth Marjon University to mark the 25th anniversary of the speech and language therapy degree programme at the university.
On 26 February 1952, Logue wrote to the late king's wife, Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother: No man ever worked as hard as he did, and achieved such a grand result.
Her research was published in academic journals, including the Journal of Speech and Hearing Disorders, American Journal of Nursing, Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, and The American Journal of Surgery.
In October 2009, the Dalhousie University Theatre Department produced the first staging of Thelwall's 1801 melodrama The Fairy of the Lake, as a complement to the John Thelwall conference being hosted at the time by the University's English Department.
He was a Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of London and Royal College of Surgeons of England.
In 1926 the University of the Witwatersrand awarded him the degree Master of Arts with distinction for his research in phonetics and general linguistics.
Hemsley won postgraduate teaching funds in 2019 and the Faculty Dean's Award for Research Excellence at UTS in 2021.
Early life Gadhok was born in India, the youngest of three sisters, but spent the early part of her childhood in Nairobi, Kenya.
Bryan was Head of the School of Health and Social Care at the University of Surrey before moving, in 2013, to the position of Pro Vice-Chancellor for its Faculty of Health and Wellbeing at Sheffield Hallam University.
The experience of a fellow-collegian who stammered is said to have arrested his attention, and he left Cambridge without taking a degree in order to devote himself to the study and cure of what he called 'defective utterance'.
McAuliffe then joined the faculty of the Department of Communication Disorders at the University of Canterbury, rising to full professor.
Henningsson, Gunilla; Kuehn, David P.; Sell, Debbie; Sweeney, Triona; Trost-Cardamone, Judith E.; Whitehill, Tara L.
Della Money is a speech and language therapist and Chairperson of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.
The product, sold through a company called Swallow Solutions, is an oral mouthpiece which uses sensors to measure pressure at five locations on the tongue.
She is a consultant clinical academic speech and language therapist at University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
As Morley's practice expanded, she was obliged to involve parents in the treatment of their child's speech and language disorder to manager her bulging caseload.
TRZYNAŚCIE WIZYT, prose with paintings of Halina Kozioł, German-Polish, Edition Beulenspiegel, AndreBuchverlag, Lengenfeld 2024, ISBN 978-3-949143-40-3.
Camberley, Surrey: Makaton Vocabulary Development Project "The Makaton Vocabulary: From Britain to the Antipodes", Australasian Journal of Special Education, 8:2, November 1984, 8-11, DOI: 10.1017/S1030011200021187 Walker, M (1978).
An exploratory study (2000) Storytelling from pictures using the Edmonton Narrative Norms Instrument (2006) Who does what to whom: Introduction of referents in children's storytelling from pictures (2010) References External links University of Alberta webpage
Since 2008, Sage has taught at the College of Teachers (now The Chartered College of Teaching) and served as dean of academic affairs until 2014.
That said, people who embraced Aqua's 'Barbie Girl', Cleopatra's 'Romeo And Juliet', and Los del Rio's 'Macarena' will be lining up for this latest slice of energetic pop.
Two months after I read it, I began 'Robbie', about a sympathetic robot, and that was the start of my positronic robot series.
The film also had a limited VHS release exclusively through the Disney Movie Club, prior to the last VHS releases of Disney films in 2007.
The distinctive feature of all WarioWare games is that they are collections of short, simple "microgames" presented in quick succession.
In a 2004 manga of Tetsuwan Atom written by Akira Himekawa, the plot, as well as the character designs, loosely followed that of the 2003 anime series.
According to Filoni, Lucas believed a character's intentions when using the Force—their "will to be selfless or selfish"—is what distinguishes light and dark sides.
Baxter wears glasses and has a surprisingly deep laugh, despite having a somewhat high-pitched voice.
The outcome of the simulated war will determine whether societies are allowed to run artificial Hells, virtual afterlives in which the mind-states of the dead are tortured.
Part 4: Diamond Is Unbreakable With Part 4, Araki said that he moved away from "muscle men" as they fell out of popularity with his readers, and he wanted to focus more on fashion.
In 2016, McIntyre and Fahy were awarded the first portion of the Brain Preservation Technology Prize, the Small Animal Brain Preservation Prize, by the Brain Preservation Foundation for the successful cryopreservation of a whole mouse brain.
Peabody ("Sherman, set the Wayback machine to..."), Sherman would set the Wayback controls to a time and place of historical importance, and by walking through a door in the Wayback machine, they would be instantly transported there.
He proposed his gravitator as propulsion to General Motors executives in 1930 and as ship propulsion while he was at the Naval Research Laboratory in 1932.
Astrophysicist Jeanne Cavelos says in The Science of Star Wars that explaining the Force is particularly difficult because "it does so many different things".
It wasn't based on any albums, but it was possibly a pilot episode for another planned series that never came to fruition (most likely because it was rejected for being too similar to "Kids Incorporated").
Reception In Britain, the book was successful and went through several editions, for instance, as a Puffin book.
It borrows from JK Rowling, John Hughes, Joss Whedon, and any number of comic books and yet still stands on its own.
In fact, no plane is hijacked as the villains of the series were killed back in 1984 in the godown shootout.
The Smash Martians were designed for the advertising agency Boase Massimi Pollitt by Sian Vickers and Chris Wilkins, also responsible for the four-wheeled red telephone used to advertise Direct Line, the GoCompare opera singer, Sheilas' Wheels commercials and Mr.
The story was a dark pastiche of the Fantastic Four, with astronauts being mutated by cosmic rays, only for in Jurgens' words, "a tragic, rather than heroic, result".
The atmosphere inside would be habitable by humans, while at the same time allowing permissible objects to pass through the barrier A walkable surface between two points without the necessity of building a bridge.
However, the passage of time outside the membrane means that all life on Earth will end in a few decades of subjective Earth time, when the Sun's expansion will make that region of the Solar System uninhabitable.
Dadabo noted that he was guided by project lead Jason Jones and lead writer Joseph Staten during the recording process, and that he received adequate context behind specific lines and scenes to emote his character.
Mitra is jubilant and demands celebration and since doctors assume he is mentally unstable, they sedate him.
In the end credits at 5 pm in 1984, it is 22 years Das from the year 1984 walks into the warehouse and picks the unburnt portion of the papers.
While still alive, they enter the Pavulean Hell on a mission to reveal the existence and details of this Hell to the general population.
She first appeared in the Valentine's Day–themed episode "Looove Bug", in which she first moved into Polieville as Olie and Billy, who competed with each other for Pollie's affections, immediately fell in love (via being shot by the Love Bug) with her.
It has been recently revealed that his plan to destroy the Magic World is due to the fact that it is already at risk of collapsing, and should it do so without warning, its entire inhabitants would suddenly be thrust into Mars's inhospitable landscape, cut off completely from earth.
Written fiction William Shakespeare invoked a concept resembling teleportation in The Tempest (1610–1611).
A 1957 story called "The 100 Batarangs of Batman!" (Detective Comics #244, June 1957) included an "origin story" for the batarang, which was given to Batman by circus performer Lee Collins.
Setsuna Sakurazaki Voiced by: Yu Kobayashi (Japanese) Dana Schultes (Series 1) Cherami Leigh (Series 2) (English) Played by: Haruki Ichikawa (1-19, 26) Aina Nishiaki (20-25) Setsuna Sakurazaki (桜咲 刹那, Sakurazaki Setsuna) is student fifteen in the class.
There is another alien faction at work, however, represented on Earth by small spider-like robots that recruit human agents through some form of mind control.
Succeeding in both, Spark is talked out of his original plan by the Librarian and made to recognize the friends he has made among the crew.
260] At the beginning of the series, the group's members are Dracule Mihawk, Sir Crocodile, Donquixote Doflamingo, Bartholomew Kuma, Gecko Moria, Boa Hancock, and Jimbei.[ch.
(A similar theme is explored in Fred Saberhagen's Berserker novels.) Cultural reference It features a character, Lawrence Van Cott, that is modelled on science fiction author Larry Niven, whose full name is "Laurence van Cott Niven".
That tool became the standard in the subsequent animated series, comics, films, and video games such as Batman: Arkham Asylum and in Batman: Arkham City a more advanced version called the Grapnel was introduced which could be used to launch Batman into the air to glide using kinetic energy.
Writing for Destructoid, Chris Carter found the space in between levels to be filler rather than a unique exploration feature, only used to hide collectible items.
A student of philosophy, he quotes and/or refers to Hume, William James, Nietzsche and especially Kierkegaard.
The facility was reportedly partly inspired by the work of Andre Geim (who later shared the 2010 Nobel Prize in Physics for his research on graphene) and Michael Berry, who both shared the Ig Nobel Prize in Physics in 2000 for the magnetic levitation of a frog.
When the terraforming is complete, Perihelion and its counterparts in other nations launch crewed colonization missions.
Each episode of the cartoon series included a short segment "Peabody's Improbable History" in which the Wayback Machine was used by the segment's main characters, Mr.
The consequence of the negative results of those experiments (which are in good agreement with the predictions of general relativity) is, that every theory which contains shielding effects like Le Sage's theory of gravitation, must reduce those effects to an undetectable level.
Powers and abilities Indigo possesses an analytical computer-like brain, enabling her to think and perceive information at great speeds.
A number of Asuna's character traits and design are inspired by Naru Narusegawa from Love Hina, Ken Akamatsu's previous work, including her attraction to an older man/teacher, and violent personality towards the protagonist.
Roger Moore era (1973–1985) Live and Let Die Rolex Submariner This specially modified Submariner has a powerful electromagnet that, in theory, can even deflect a bullet.
This version lost his powers after a group of white supremacists led by Captain Nazi activated their Great Darkness Engine to neutralize most of the world's metahumans.
Wun cures Jason of multiple sclerosis elevating him into a new form of life which the Martians term the "fourth stage" and extending his potential lifespan.
Humbert and Manders get into many adventures, the most memorable of which is a kite-flying expedition.
Initially, the bellows-covered legs were articulated, and were moved separately by the actor inside.
Jupiter brains are related to the idea of the hypothetical material computronium, which could be enmassed to sizes of entire planets and even stars.
The Transformers introduced a character named Skywarp who was capable of teleporting from place to place.
During such visits, the historical figures and situations encountered are always distorted in some crucial way.
This Robot was of a more humanoid appearance, though missing its arms and legs (which were presumably in storage), and had shining round blue eyes in an otherwise featureless face.
The Resolute and the Robot soon jumped to the Robot's home system, where it and Will are eventually reunited after SAR's destruction.
A second single of the song was issued in 1983 with another Savelli song "Humanoïdes" (PB 61074); the lyrics were later translated in the English-language dub, retitled as "Fly with Me", this version was also sung by Virginia Vee.
Armoured Gideon is a comics character (and their eponymous story) who first appeared in British science fiction anthology 2000 AD.
Alpha is voiced by Eri Miyajima in the original Japanese version and by Jaclyn Thomas in the Funimation dub.
When Gideon attacks, he does so uttering the word "Annihilate!" In 2018 the character made a surprise return to 2000AD after nearly 25 years in the series "The Order".
For a review of the current experimental limits on possible gravitational shielding, see the survey article by Bertolami, et al.
Heroes of the City (Swedish: Stadens Hjältar) is a Swedish computer-animated television series for preschool children, with stories about friendship, sharing and caring.
He convinces Wario to help break the seal that was placed upon him by the other creatures of the world, with the promise of keeping any treasure Wario finds.
Bernstein (credited as Anne Bernstein), Mike Setaro, Dave Benjoya, Mike de Sève, Jymn Magon, Karen de Sève, Peter K.
Initially, the vacated fourth seat was to feature a rotating series of guest analysts, with Jimmy Johnson returning in Week 1.
Upon alerting his uncle to the package, Humbert is surprised to find that it contains a Type One Household Robot, designed to help around the home.
Wario is always doing stupid things and is really idiotic, so we thought him and the rest of the characters would be best for the game." Game & Wario, released in 2013, is a spin-off of the WarioWare series.
Virtual reality headset Used by James Bond for training and by Moneypenny for romancing Bond's virtual avatar.
The cryopreserved brain was rewarmed and no serious degradation was found to have occurred; the brain structure under electron microscopic evaluation after rewarming remained well-preserved.
Animation DC Animated Universe The batarang appears in the DC Animated Universe series Batman: The Animated Series, Batman Beyond, and Justice League.
Electrets In his 1976 paper, Electromagnetism and Gravitation, physicist Edward Teller discussed experimentation with electrets, or materials with a permanent electric dipole moment, near its transition point to discover the transition between dipole states.
Pandorum The TV series Lost in Space used a sleeper ship, the Jupiter II, intended to hold the crew for the five-and-a-half-year journey to Alpha Centauri.
Several gadgets from previous James Bond films are featured, including Rosa Klebb's stiletto knife shoe, the jetpack from Thunderball and the re-breather apparatus from Thunderball.
Back on Earth, Standish's campaign against the Indians is related in another History TV special, which also adds the new theory that the first Thanksgiving was haunted, much to Kyle's outrage.
In about June 2153, the Earth Starfleet ship Enterprise (NX-01) enters the Expanse to locate the Xindi.
Although he managed to rise to power by election, he does not respect the rules of democracy and dismisses the members of the council when they oppose his decisions.
As an adult, he preferred realistic stories that helped readers understand real science and history, like Robert Heinlein's "—And He Built a Crooked House—" and L.
The movie Interstellar features a spacecraft called the Endurance that can rotate on its central axis to create artificial gravity, controlled by retro thrusters on the ship.
Mike Lardas, of The Daily News called A Star-Wheeled Sky "marvelous sci-fi entertainment" and stated it "offer[ed] a fresh take on interstellar conflict".
It sold 66,692 copies within its first week on sale in Japan, which placed it at number one on the all-format sales chart.
In Japanese, she is voiced by Fairouz Ai in the anime and subsequent appearances, and Miyuki Sawashiro in All Star Battle and Eyes of Heaven.
Travel times for such journeys could reach into the hundreds or thousands of years, making some form of life extension, such as suspended animation, necessary for the original crew to live to see their destination.
Although the combined forces of the young superheroes best her, adding further damage, she is able to activate a dormant Superman robot before shutting down for repairs.
The Waywork has been completely explored for hundreds of years, and the settled systems are bursting at the seams.
Stross even went as far as to suggest that a sufficiently powerful species utilizing enough raw processing power could launch attacks upon, and manipulate, the structure of the universe itself.
Comparison to magic Paranormal abilities like the Force are a common device in science fiction, and the Force has been compared to the role magic plays in the fantasy genre.
Kong is voiced by Unshō Ishizuka in the original Japanese version and by Jim Foronda in the Funimation dub.
Anti-gravity research In 1921, while experimenting in the lab his parents had set up for him while he was still in high school, Brown discovered an unusual effect while experimenting with a Coolidge tube (hot cathode tube), a type of X-ray vacuum tube with two asymmetrical electrodes.
Fallout Tactics 2 Fallout Tactics 2 was proposed as a sequel to Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel, although it was originally conceived as a sequel to Wasteland, the video game that inspired the Fallout series.
The story is written in the first person, from the point of view of a newly sentient robot, in the form of a written confession.
The show was written and produced by Peter and Hanneke Jacobs and was originally aired on Trinity Broadcasting Network, with Peter playing the part of Colby.
Although most of the main cast consists of circular bots, other characters are featured in other shapes, such as Olie's friend Billy Bevel and his family, who are square-shaped bots from Planet Cubey.
Initially a heroic figure and ally of the Teen Titans and Outsiders, Indigo is later revealed to be a mole designed to eliminate opposition to the Coluan species.
Penguin is voiced by Keiji Hirai in the original Japanese version and by Seth Magill in the Funimation dub.
He was portrayed as a cybercriminal and computer programmer by Keanu Reeves in The Matrix Trilogy, as well as having a cameo in The Animatrix short film Kid's Story.
Electrocution staff chair With the press of a button, Blofeld electrocutes the staff member on the seat which he sits on, then the seat drops down into the floor and comes back empty.
This 'dark side' of The Culture also alludes to or echoes mistakes and tragedies in 20th century Marxist–Leninist countries, although the Culture is generally portrayed as far more 'humane' and just.
There was much speculation that Johnson would return to coaching during the first year of the program's run.
Jaime then find out from his parents that, because he is not attending college, he will be heading to Palmera City to work at the family diner for the summer.
Diane joins the quasi-religious "New Kingdom" movement, a Christian sect that endorses hedonism and indulgence, where she meets and later marries Simon Townsend.
Eventually, the project detects a signal from Vega, 26 light-years away, transmitting prime numbers.
The freedoms include the ability to leave the Culture when desired, often forming new associated but separate societies with Culture ships and Minds, most notably the Zetetic Elench and the ultra-pacifist and non-interventionist Peace Faction.
Erik Kain of Forbes praised the episode's jabs at for-profit colleges DeVry and the University of Phoenix.
Right now, Diadora is the kit maker of Norwegian Eliteserien club Viking FK At the 2025 season, Diadora made a return to the Brazilian football, providing kits for Coritiba and Náutico.
On May 16, 2016, Excel Homes filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which meant the company would be liquidated, leaving 280 people unemployed in Liverpool alone.
New owners and revival Efforts to sell the chain continued until July 2023, with no adequate bids submitted.
As a stopgap measure, Inslaw provided PROMIS on a time-share basis through a VAX computer in Virginia, allowing the offices to access PROMIS on the Inslaw VAX through remote terminals, until the needed equipment was installed on-site.
In 2021, the Body Shop announced that all its products would be certified vegan by the Vegan Society as of the end of 2023.
Items are imported, created in conjunction with foreign designers, or produced by Pier 1's Trend and Product Development team.
See also List of casual dining restaurant chains List of seafood restaurants References Further reading Segal, David (September 9, 2024).
Under chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code this kind of debt restructuring is usual, and the so-called "cram down" procedure allows a court to approve a plan over the wishes of creditors if they will receive a value equivalent to what they are owed.
It closed three months later in July 1990 after it was accused of violating a law that states that airlines in the United States must be controlled by American citizens.
Furthermore, the presence of several highways, such as the New England Thruway, made the site accessible from the surrounding New York metropolitan area, whose population exceeded 10 million.
In response Greenpeace launched a legal defense fund and characterized the lawsuit as a Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation (SLAPP).
retailer Bombay Company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on September 20, 2007, Bombay's Canadian operations (after inventory disposition) were acquired by the Benitahs and combined operations with Bowring and Benix & Company.
References External links American Continental Corporation Records, Arizona State University Library.
As Central Grocers went bankrupt after being around for 100 years in 2017, Strack & Van Til made an agreement with Associated Wholesale Grocers, Inc., makers of Best Choice and Always Save brands of items, to compensate for the now gone Centrella.
Formal definition There is a certain amount of money to divide, denoted by E {\displaystyle E} (=Estate or Endowment).
At its peak, the company had more than 700 weight management centers in Australia, the United States, Canada, and New Zealand.
In January 2024, Subway debuted Sidekicks, a new range of footlong baked goods in partnership with Cinnabon and Auntie Anne's.
Furthermore, later bankruptcy prediction models such as the hazard based model proposed by Campbell, Hilscher, and Szilagyi in 2011 have proven more accurate still.
Allan, 1976–1987 Robert Edmond Heneault, 1987–1991 (Stelco Enterprises) Frederick Harold Telmer, 1987–1991 (Stelco Steel) Robert J.
Bankruptcy A federal court ordered Davega Stores into straight bankruptcy in April 1963, when its court-appointed trustee could not formulate a reorganization plan under which the chain could pay its debts.
In November 2018, Competition Bureau Canada began an investigation into the company's misleading marketing practices, culminating in a $5 million penalty for the company as well as $0.8 million of penalties for its directors.
Charm rehired many former staff members and reopened 2 stores in Winnipeg, as well as announcing their intention to open several other stores in ensuing months.
Nike ownership, 1995–2008 In 1995, Canstar, the parent company of Bauer, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Nike.
See also List of fast-food chicken restaurants Further reading "Pioneer Chicken in Bankruptcy; Most Stores to Remain Open".
Ho refused to appear before the DOT without a subpoena and was ultimately unable to prove American citizenship.
Unfiltered with Chuck D, Lizz Winstead, and Rachel Maddow (9 a.m.–noon ET) Aired April 1, 2004 – April 1, 2005.
The company won court approval for an injection of $206 million to get it through its financial restructuring in April 2009 and emerged from creditor protection on 9 December 2010.
and a Canadian record label, both created by General Recorded Tape, a California-based company that existed from 1965 to 1979.
However, the business declined, and on 4 May 2023, the company announced that it was going out of business after 40 years.
Excel Homes’ products and manufacturing process were covered in both the trade and mainstream media, including features on the History Channel’s Modern Marvels in 2009 and ABC-TV’s Extreme Makeover: Home Edition in 2010.
Generally, creditors can be divided between those who "perfected" their interest by establishing an appropriate public record of the debt and any property claimed as collateral for it, and those who have not.
Its Toronto division, formerly known as Arc Productions and Starz Animation, has worked on CGI films and series such as Chop Socky Chooks, Gnomeo & Juliet, Thomas & Friends, and VeggieTales.
On June 12, hip hop rapper Flavor Flav was hired by the company to be the spokesperson of Red Lobster commercials, after he previously ordered the entire Red Lobster menu in order to save the company.
The Gaols Act 1823 saw priests sent in, and put the debtors' prison jailors on the state's payroll, so they did not claim fees from inmates.
In 2020, to deal with a decline in travel during the COVID-19 pandemic, the company filed bankruptcy under Chapter 15, Title 11, United States Code and underwent a court-supervised restructuring process under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act, which was completed in May 2021.
The company once operated the now closed or rebranded banners Little Burgundy (which it sold to Genesco), Simard & Voyer, Christian Shoes, Access, Pegabo, Transit, Stoneridge, Locale, Feetfirst and FIRST (which was the American version of Feetfirst).
After implementing a system of portable radios, the park laid off 700 of its 3,000 workers during that season.
The brand was introduced in 1991 by McCain Foods, and sold to the Pasco Beverage Group in 2000 before being sold again, to Hansen's.
Related bankruptcy of Tom Hazelrigg III Tom Hazelrigg is a long-time business associate of Michael Mastro who was forced into bankruptcy by James Rigby and two other creditors in February 2012.
Aldo Bensadoun learned Italian to better communicate with his suppliers in Italy, and eventually he cut out the middleman who serviced him between Canada and European manufacturers (Strauss, 2010).
Greenpeace Resolute Forest Products has been criticized by Greenpeace and other organizations for advancing logging and road building in endangered species habitat in Québec and Ontario.
Until the chain's demise, Carter's Foods was the only grocery chain in Michigan to be entirely owned by its employees.
On November 15, 2012, the Seattle Times reported that the two diamond rings were in French authorities' possession.
On July 21, 2007, text messages began to be sent to Amp'd Mobile customer phones that stated: Your service may be disconnected on 7.24 @ 12:01 am.
The most important of these witnesses was Michael Riconosciuto, who swore in an affidavit for Inslaw that businessman Earl Brian had provided him with a copy of Inslaw's enhanced Promis, supporting Inslaw's earlier claims that Brian had been interested in acquiring and marketing the software.
Training programs offered North American's Professional Pilot Program included the FAA Private Pilot License (PPL), Instrument Rating (IRA), Commercial Pilot License (CPL), Flight Instructor Certificate (CFI), Instrument Flight Instructor Certificate (CFII) and the Multi-Engine Rating courses.
Sponsorship NASCAR announced on December 1, 2016, a multi-year deal that will make Monster Energy only the third entitlement sponsor in its premier series history.
History Formed in 1989 by former Continental Airlines manager and Mid Pacific Air Director of Marketing Franco Mancassola, the airline operated flights from Honolulu to Kahului, Lihue, and Kona.
After World War II, the company focused on its retail business, including the department store in St.
This is said to be the first car factory in Britain to use ferro-concrete (concrete reinforced with metal bars), and was designed by Albert Kahn.
The sprayings occurred over a period of at least two months, with each spraying lasting about 30–40 minutes.
C E L ( 50 , 100 , 150 ; 200 ) = ( 16.667 , 66.666 , 116.667 ) {\displaystyle CEL(50,100,150;200)=(16.667,66.666,116.667)} ; here r = 33.333 {\displaystyle r=33.333} .
since 2022 and releasing Barbie-themed products since 2023, MINISO acquired several percent of Mattel's shares.
The fleet North American operated until September 5, 2008, a fleet of 6 Cessna 152, 11 Cessna 172, 3 Cessna 172RG, 2 Piper Seminoles and one DA-40 Diamond Star.
While the total allocation is larger than the estate: Remove one unit equally from all active agents.
In October 1960 Ernie Strack and Nick Van Til partnered and opened their first Strack & Van Til in Highland, Indiana.
America Radio Network, which was home to hosts such as Thom Hartmann, Peter Werbe, and Mike Malloy, never gained national attention.
Equity owned or operated stations lost RTN affiliation immediately, though Luken vowed to find new affiliates for RTN in those areas.
In September 2019, Dennis Herrera, the city attorney of San Francisco sued the company over hidden fees and other predatory scams.
Subsequent investigations found that staff failed to adhere to thorough hand washing and the use of plastic gloves during food preparation.
The old Pendell plant became a Quad/Graphics (which acquired Quebecor World in 2010) until it closed in 2019.
It suffered in the 1990s as consumers began to prefer showroom sales that featured spaces arranged to look like actual rooms in houses.
The Kolster Radio Corporation signed an agreement with Davega Stores in late 1928, representing a significant addition to the retail outlets of the radio merchandise dealer.
The play was performed at the 2021 Edinburgh Festival Fringe festival on a stage built on the main stand of Tynecastle Park.
Spendthrift Farm is a thoroughbred race horse breeding farm and burial site in Lexington, Kentucky, currently owned by Eric & Tammy Gustavson.
In April 1954, Davega Stores employed large newspaper space and window displays in marketing Line Drive, a baseball game manufactured by Lord & Freber of Los Angeles, California.
In 2025, SSENSE went into creditor protection under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act, blaming increased tariffs on imports to the United States for the financial downturn.
By the late 1980s, the Bowring family had sold the chain to American retailer Hallmark Cards, and in 1993 it was acquired by Royal Canadian Securities through subsidiary Tereve Holdings, following which the St.
Calculation of the O-score The Ohlson O-Score is the result of a 9-factor linear combination of coefficient-weighted business ratios which are readily obtained or derived from the standard periodic financial disclosure statements provided by publicly traded corporations.
In June 2021 SSENSE received minority investment from Sequoia Capital that valued the company at over $4 billion USD.
The Pioneer Chicken Take Out Corporation, doing business as Pioneer Chicken, is an American fried chicken restaurant chain which was founded in Echo Park, Los Angeles in 1961 by H.
Contrary to original expectations, the label was not a major component of the operations of parent General Recorded Tape.
For example, in 2008, The Thom Hartmann Program had 1.5–2 million unique listeners a week and The Lionel Show had 1.5–1.75 million unique listeners a week.
The GRT label had more success with its Nashville operations, but the Nashville office was shut down in 1978.
Locations Quebecor had facilities in the United States, Canada, Brazil, France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Spain, Austria, Sweden, Switzerland, Finland, Chile, Argentina, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, and India.
In 2016, it reduced its ownership stake but announced a continuing commercial relationship through 2023.
On January 6, 2020, it was announced that Pier 1 will close up to 450 stores, citing "a reduction in corporate headcount".
Sarku Japan's menu is composed predominantly of teriyaki dishes (chicken, beef and shrimp), though it also offers bento boxes, dumplings, tempura and a variety of sushi rolls.
After learning of this letter, DOJ lawyers moved to recuse Judge Bason from the Inslaw case, but their motion was rejected, and Judge Bason remained on the case until the expiration of his term on February 8, 1988.
The chain continued to expand in 2005, when they acquired Seaman's Furniture and Huffman Koos stores after bankruptcy.
World Color had pursued major expansions in 1996 and 1997, purchasing Ringier America and Rand McNally's Book Services Group.) Financial struggles Quebecor entered a difficult period in the early 2000s as the market has gradually shifted focus to digital media.
The company also had to negotiate a volatile relationship with its landlord and an expensive and inefficient 96-year-old factory.
The feeds were in a format intended to be fed directly to a terrestrial television transmitter with no further studio processing.
See also Retail apocalypse YOOX Net-a-Porter Group Clicks and mortar Mytheresa Farfetch Polyvore References External links Official website
The House report thus took a different approach to several of the legal issues that the Senate report had discussed.
In 1986, Moss' grandson, Brent Trepel, took over the running of the company due to his father's poor health, becoming president and CEO from May 1986 until July 2013, when the company was sold to JSN Jewellery, a manufacturer based out of Toronto.
Founded as an independent company, the business was purchased by Nestlé in 2006 for approximately $600 million.
AFC Enterprises acquisition In 1993, Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits owner AFC Enterprises purchased the franchise and converted most locations to Popeyes.
Steel announced on March 3, 2009, that it would be temporarily shutting down its Hamilton plant and most of its Lake Erie plant, putting more than 2,000 people out of work.
A subsequent leveraged buyout a year later led to chapter 11 bankruptcy on March 13, 1989, and a subsequent reorganization.
On May 4, 2017, Central Grocers filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and plans to close their distribution center and sell 22 of its Strack and Van Til stores, plus seven of its Ultra stores.
In January 2025, MINISO opened a flagship store at Asiatique The Riverfront in Thailand, further expanding its presence in Southeast Asia.
In May 2009, Chicago-based printer RR Donnelley tendered an unsolicited bid to purchase Quebecor World, which was rejected as the company emerged from creditor protection in July (having changed its name back to "Worldcolor Press").
In the 1960s, Levitz, expanded by Richard's sons Leon and Ralph, successfully pioneered the sales of moderately priced brand-name furniture from a warehouse-style store.
Also privately owned, Strack & Van Til will become a subsidiary of Hy-Vee but will retain its own logos, name, and branding, Potthoff said.
The vast majority of the chain's restaurants are located in shopping mall food courts; however, a number of street locations can be found in Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, New York and Virginia.
Locations There are two remaining locations in the Los Angeles area: 904 South Soto Street in Los Angeles and 6323 East Florence Avenue in Bell Gardens.
In 1984, Queen Elizabeth II visited Spendthrift Farms to view not only Seattle Slew but also Affirmed as possible studs for her stable of Thoroughbreds containing 22 broodmares.
According to the company, Excel Homes built more than 28,000 modular homes in its climate-controlled plants in Liverpool, Pennsylvania and Avis, Pennsylvania, since its founding in 1984.
References External links Plaid Pantry's homepage Plaid Pantry succeeds by shrinking - Portland Business Journal
According to this philosophy, in order for an object to belong to the Form of the Good, it must be One and have the proper harmony, uniformity, and order to be in its proper form.
Within this soul dualism, every human has both an ethereal hun 魂 "spiritual soul; spirit; mood" that leaves the body after death and a substantive po 魄 "physical soul; spirit; vigor" that remains with the corpse.
A supreme deity, supreme god or supreme being is the conception of the sole deity of monotheistic religions or, in polytheistic or henotheistic religions, the paramount deity or supernatural entity which is above all others.
In many cases, one of the souls is associated with body functions ("body soul") and the other one can leave the body ("free soul" or "wandering soul").
Its foundation-stone was laid by the eminent Theosophist Charles "Bishop" Leadbeater, who opened the building on 4 June 1916.
He is both shown to be concerned for social justice, law and equity along with being faithful in his priestly rites and interaction with the gods.
Crowley would later write twelve more stories under the title Simon Iff in America, six stories as Simon Iff Abroad, and two final stories as Simon Iff Psychoanalyst.
Despite this, Hamza ibn Ali took him down from the cross and allowed him to return to his family, in order to prepare men for the preaching of his religion.
He stated that the founder of Sikhism was a Muslim saint, who was a reflection of the religious challenges he perceived to be occurring.
Choronzon is a demon that originated in writing with the 16th-century occultists Edward Kelley and John Dee within the latter's occult system of Enochian magic.
Whereas, the Greeks took the notion of pistis as persuasive discourse that was elliptical and concentrated on the "affect and effect rather than on the representation of the truth".
Scholarly interpretations Among historians of philosophy and science, the verse is often understood as a reference to the supposed effects of heavenly bodies upon terrestrial events.
Often, the declaration of faith is led by the leader of the congregation and followers respond in kind.
In Ahmadiyya theology, these prophecies concerning the Mahdi and the second coming of Jesus are believed to have been fulfilled in Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (1835–1908), the founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement, wherein the terms Messiah and Mahdi are synonyms for one and the same person.
Throughout the entire history of human knowledge, there are no more certain and infallible inferences than these.
There are sources that underscore how the Shia sect agrees with the Jews and Christians that Imam Mehdi (al-Mahdi) is another name for Elijah, whose return prior to the arrival of the Messiah was prophesied in the Old Testament.
Self-praise of Shulgi (Shulgi D) is a Sumerian hymn dedicated to the Third Dynasty of Ur ruler Shulgi, written on clay tablets dated to between 2100 and 2000 BC.
In Innu mythology, Matshishkapeu ('The Farting God') is considered to be one of the most powerful spirits, and thought to be even more powerful than the Caribou Master.
And his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him 18 And she said to Elijah, "What have you against me, O man of God?
917 of December 22, 1986, as amended, intended exclusively for the performance of welfare, social security, health, educational, receptive, cultural, recreational and sports activities, as well as the activities referred to in Article 16, letter a), of Law No.
Conversely, if the doomsday argument survives until the end of human civilization (in the year 5000, say) then it will have dramatically beaten the odds against the expectations of the Copernican principle.
Historian Lucio Marineo Siculo expressed it in a similar way in his play De Aragoniae Regibus (1509), introducing the novelty that the emblem had its origin in the mythical Knight Otger Cataló.
This indicates that she supported the statements of Talmud that Jesus was the son of a man named Pandira and "lived a hundred years before the beginning of the Gospel events." In his youth, he lived for many years in Egypt, where he "was initiated" in esoteric wisdom.
In Revelation 17:9 it is said that she sits on "seven mountains", typically understood as the seven hills of Rome.
The myth was called the "Creation of the Pickax" by Samuel Noah Kramer, a name by which it is referred in older sources.
A cover depicting Madonna as Our Lady of Czestochowa was featured in Polish magazine Machina in 2006, which was criticized by some like Jasna Góra Monastery's paulinians.
Therefore, Landsberg and Dewynne argue that it is more likely that the doomsday argument is wrong (even if its logic is correct) than that the human race will become extinct in 9,000 years (which the doomsday argument calculates at around 95% likely).
Jainists believe in a sort of compatibilism, in which the cycle of Saṃsara is a completely mechanistic process, occurring without any divine intervention.
Symbolism The Whore is associated with the Beast of Revelation by connection with an equally evil kingdom.
Chinese theology may be also called Tiānxué (天學; "study of Heaven"), a term already in use in the 17th and 18th centuries.
For example, in the Blackfeet account, Old Man and Old Woman arguing over whether people should die, with Old Woman using magic to ensure that the sign that they agreed upon gave her desired result.
For example, in Matthew 23:34–37 and Luke 11:47–51, Jesus assigned all of the bloodguilt for the killing of the prophets and of the saints to the Pharisees of Jerusalem.
Gross report to have evidenced and quantified DMT, along with its structural analog bufotenin (5-HO-DMT), in human blood and urine.
Paranormal researcher Ben Radford writes that Frank's Box is a "modern version of the Ouija board...
Parts of the structure of DMT occur within some important biomolecules like serotonin and melatonin, making them structural analogues of DMT.
Hume's quote comes from Pierre Bayle's influential Dictionnaire Historique et Critique, which quotes Lactantius attributing the questions to Epicurus.
Godwin drew a division by referring to Blavatskian Theosophy with a capital letter and older, Boehmian theosophy with a lower-case letter.
If a god has unlimited power and is completely good, then it has the power to extinguish evil and wants to extinguish it.
Laurie Anderson's "Example #22", from her 1981 album Big Science, interposes spoken sentences and phrases in German with sung passages in English representing EVP.
Karaite Jews traditionally consider the Written Torah to be authoritative, viewing the Oral Law as only one possible interpretation of the Written Torah.
The Celts honoured many tribal and tutelary deities, along with spirits of nature and ancestral spirits.
The scientific words empyreuma and empyreumatic, applied to the characteristic smell of the burning or charring of vegetable or animal matter, have the same Greek origin.
The House at that time was known as the Manor of Boleskine and Abertarff after the name of the local parish.
The video features heavy digital effects, cosmic imagery, and Easter eggs to Swift's other songs and albums; for instance, media publications interpreted her blue nail color and the Roman number "MCMLXXXIX" as Easter eggs pointing to her album 1989.
Known as the ‘Indigenous Religious Values Hypothesis’, the origin of religious values can be seen as the product of the values held by the society in which the religion originated from.
In the philosophical schools of the Indian Subcontinent, the concept of karma deals with similar philosophical issues to the Western concept of determinism.
This seems to be the earliest mention of Saligrama as this temple was constructed prior to the birth of Adi Shankara.
Some claims of chosenness are based on parallel claims of Israelite ancestry, as is the case for the Christian Identity and Black Hebrew sects—both which regard themselves (and not Jews) as the "true Israel".
Ráná, Parsi Law: Containing the Law Applicable to Parsis as Regards Succession and Inheritance, Marriage and Divorce, Printed at the Examiner Press, 1902 M.
Retrieved from https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2018/10/with-green-mosques-and-schools-amman-pushes-for-zero-emissions Tamney, J., Johnson, S., & Burton, R.
British composer Sir Granville Bantock wrote a tone poem for orchestra based on the Shelley poem in 1902, The Witch of Atlas: Tone Poem for Orchestra No.5 after Shelley, which was first performed on 10 September 1902.
There are numerous other declarations of faith, typically performed during religious rituals in many faiths.
It is a widely held belief that most members of the faith are in the tribe of Ephraim or the tribe of Manasseh.
Ordinary and extraordinary care are distinguished by some bioethical theories, including the teaching of the Catholic Church.
The persecution of anyone who opposed the Catholic Church during the Middle Ages, especially by the Inquisition, and the persecution of the Waldensians and the Huguenots are cited as examples of this persecution.
The term used in Sumerian to describe this concept was Ukkin, and in later Akkadian and Aramaic was puhru.
An earlier King's Hall The Theosophical Society had an earlier building called "King's Hall" at 132 Phillip Street, built in 1909.
Legend of the Four Blood Bars When in the Segunda parte de la crónica general de España it is time to explain the facts of Wilfred the Hairy, the Earl of Barcelona, Beuter the episode of the Legend of the Four Blood Bars is added.
Elijah learns that the widow has a son and between them they only have enough flour and oil for one more meal before they die.
As platonic relationship Biblical scholars have widely and traditionally interpreted this as a very close but non-sexual relationship (cf.
As expressed in the blessing at the reading of the Torah, our people have always felt it to be a privilege to be selected for such a purpose.
Uralic peoples The concept of more kinds of souls can be found also in the mythologies of several Uralic peoples.
It is one of a number of magic cauldrons in Welsh legend and folklore, including the cauldron of Diwrnach the Irishman in Culhwch and Olwen, the cauldron of the Head of Annwn in Preiddeu Annwfn and the cauldron of Cerridwen in the tale of Taliesin.
A group of people torched copies of the paper and several Islamic groups protested, saying the drawings ridiculed Muhammad and his companions.
A key aspect of faqr is the refusal to ask anything from others, as seeking from created beings conflicts with reliance on God.
Museum no.: CBS 11065 Barton, George Aaron., Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, Yale University Press, 1918.
Psychology and perception Auditory pareidolia is a situation created when the brain incorrectly interprets random patterns as being familiar patterns.
The account describes the demon throwing sand over the triangle to breach it, following which it attacked Neuburg 'in the form of a naked savage', forcing him to drive it back at the point of a dagger.
In popular culture The phrase has also been adopted as a title for various works of art, such as the 2014 found-footage horror film As Above, So Below, as well as a number of musical works listed at As above, so below (disambiguation).
In 2010, the thesis was, however, published posthumously as Time, Fate, and Language: An Essay on Free Will.
In The Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd Alexander, a cauldron similar to the Pair Dadeni exists to create undead warriors.
Even Jesus the Nazarene who thought he would be the Messiah and was killed by the court, was already prophesied by Daniel.
In medieval Christianity, the Empyrean was the third heaven and beyond "the heaven of the air and the heaven of the stars." The Empyrean was thus used as a name for the incorporeal "heaven of the first day".
The Turkish TV-station Show TV broadcast the telephone number of an editor who then received daily calls.
Feeling sorry for Owuo, because Owuo had been kind to him, the boy poured the medicine into Owuo's eye, reviving it.
He returns to his kingdom with his family, and in time, Savitri bears a hundred sons, securing their lineage.
The raising of the son of the widow of Zarephath is a miracle of the prophet Elijah recorded in the Hebrew Bible, 1 Kings 17, taking place in the Phoenician city of Zarephath.
In a traditional view, the Messiah was understood to be a human descendant of King David (that is, of the Davidic line).
In 1945 he published a study on Book of Genesis; his subsequent books develop the World Ice Theory in light of other Bible books, the Atlantis myth, and the Tiwanaku archaeological site in Bolivia.
On being requested by the devas, Shiva, along with his attendants and the devas, waged a battle against the danavas, led by Shankhachuda.
HPB: the extraordinary life and influence of Helena Blavatsky, founder of the modern Theosophical movement.
Blavatsky's Theosophy is not the only movement to use the term "theosophy" and this has resulted in scholarly attempts to differentiate the different currents.
The concept that the doomsday argument is susceptible to refutation; if the doomsday argument is not falsifiable then there is no mechanism for refuting it, even if it is false.
The ancient wisdom religion According to Blavatsky's teachings, many of the world's religions have their origins in a universal ancient religion, a "secret doctrine" that was known to Plato and early Hindu sages and which continues to underpin every religion.
Ferber claimed that Plato's Form of the Good could be simultaneously defined and unknown, and be in a state of both "being" and "not being".
In popular culture An invocation of Choronzon forms the basis for a 1980 episode of Hammer House of Horror entitled "Guardian of the Abyss", in which a cult called The Choronzon Society uses John Dee's scrying mirror to conjure Choronzon.
Story The story takes the form of a contest poem between two cultural entities first identified by Kramer as vegetation gods, Emesh and Enten.
A "single moment" of good justifies an eternity of bad, but one extreme cannot have meaning without the other.
Classical sources state that all souls stand before God in pairs before entering the world, and that the “Holy One” unites these couples as intended matches.
Matshishkapeu approached the Caribou Master and asked him to provide the Innu with enough caribou to eat, but the Caribou Master refused.
A great war, which will include an army of both Hindus and Buddhists, will destroy the barbaric forces, states the text.
Waiss Aramesh of Rolling Stone and Mark Savage of BBC News wrote that the song's theme about finding peace and victory was the appropriate closer for the tour, which showcased Swift as having persevered through challenges to reach her stardom.
In it, Rabelais revisited discussions he had had while working as a secretary to Geoffroy d'Estissac earlier in Fontenay–le–Comte, where la querelle des femmes had been a lively subject of debate.
She informed her father that she had chosen an exiled prince named Satyavan as her husband, the son of a blind king named Dyumatsena of the Shalva kingdom; Dyumatsena had been driven out of his kingdom by a foe and led a life of exile as a forest-dweller with his wife Shaivya and son.
Criticism Psychologists and relationship researchers have argued that the belief in a single predestined soulmate can create unrealistic expectations and hinder relationship satisfaction.
In 2004, the government, through the National Committee for the Evaluation of the University System, established several additional non-state, legally recognized universities, including the European University of Rome, founded by the religious institute of the Legionaries of Christ.
The Witch is the daughter of the Atlantides, who in Greek mythology are called the Pleiades, the seven daughters of Atlas and Pleione.
According to legend, the Caribou Master withheld caribou from the Innu out of greed, causing them to begin starving.
A Note on the Pisteis in Aristotle's Rhetoric, 1354-1356', American Journal of Philology (1957): 188-192.
Sinclair Ferguson calls attention to this as an example of a repeated pattern in the history of redemption.
According to a 2016 study by the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, depaving is common on rural roads as a cost-saving measure due to the high cost of maintaining paved surfaces.
Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts In the Carpenter Center the Modulor system was used for the brise-soleil distances, the floor to floor heights, the bay distances and the column thicknesses.
hydrocarbons) or an electron donor (commonly an organic substrate) is added to reduce oxidized pollutants (nitrate, perchlorate, oxidized metals, chlorinated solvents, explosives and propellants).
Recipients of Walter Burley Griffin Award for Urban Design Distribution of Awards From 1988 to 2025 almost 90% of awards presented (34 of 38) were located in Victoria and New South Wales.
It represents the adaptation and application of customary management practices, with the intention of achieving a productive [engineering design process].
At one time, half of the world's oysters were harvested in the New York Harbor." The goal of a billion oysters seems ambitious, but pales to the number of oysters that populated the waters in colonial times: 3 trillion oysters, and 300,000,000,000,000,000,000 annual spawn of oyster larvae.
The Buttenheim Brothers, Harold and Edgar, also founded the American City Bureau, which raised funds for local Community Chests, YMCA and YWCAs, and similar agencies.
The Planets are made from stone and range in size from Jupiter at several hundred kilograms to Pluto at only a few grams, and ranges within an area of 30 kilometres (19 mi) from the village of Reine in Moskenes Municipality to the village of Nordland in Værøy Municipality.
The objective of institutional governance is to achieve equilibrium (‘Ethical Equilibrium’) among the three areas.
Unlike instructional videos on YouTube or the one-way communication on many how-to sites, Hometalk is a community where members can ask questions about projects and get responses within minutes.
This agency enforces a set of regulations surrounding the installation of a beehive in order to protect the health of colonies, but these rules are rarely restrictive enough to deter committed hobbyists.
As molecular weight of the compound increases, the resistance to biodegradation increases simultaneously.
First Fridays happy hours become a way for these professionals to meet in a social atmosphere while exchanging useful information.
Projects must be constructed and complete and able to demonstrate how they have improved place and resulted in broad public benefit.
A few university student projects have investigated Hügelkultur, but those results have not made it into the peer-reviewed literature.
Carmina Campus She bought a country estate of about 430 acres in Northern Rome, I Casali del Pino, and while converting the farm to organic cultivation she became increasingly involved with environmental issues and creative reuse of wasted materials.
The sanitary movement of urban planning began in the United Kingdom in 1838, with the Central Poor Law Commission's findings on the "physical causes of fever in the Metropolis which might be prevented by proper sanitary measures".
He also designed the landscaping for the AIDS Memorial, Cawthra Park, itself designed by Patrick Fahn.
She also collaborated with Socially MadeinItaly, an Italian non-profit organization that operates in Italian prisons, to support a joint rehabilitation program involving the production of a special Carmina Campus bag collection made in prison hubs that was first launched in February 2015.
Collings also advocated the education of women, signing a petition seeking to award degrees to female students at the University of Cambridge in 1880.
The documentary film Alt Flyter (Panta Rei) by Lars Nilssen follows Wanggaard during the realization process of Planet Lofoten over a period of three years.
In order to maintain a strategic, long-term vision necessary for adequate metropolitan planning, the Plan has to be revised/adapted every 4 years, but the horizon (24 years, in this example) should remain the constant.
Controversies First Friday events focusing on the arts have often come under attack for specific components of the events that are politically popular such as drag shows, explicit art, among others.
The nature and behavior of markets depend somewhat on their locations therefore market performance partly depends on geography.(McCann 2001:1).
Some cities, including Portland, charge impervious pavement fees to cover the cost of dealing with runoff, which incentivizes depaving.
A park system, also known as an open space system, is a network of parks and other green spaces that are connected by public walkways, bridleways or cycleways.
The collected honey from the harvest can later be sold directly to the same community, strengthening the local economy.
On copper roofing or flashing, reapplication as infrequently as once every three years can effectively retard patina formation.
Urban River Restoration Urban rivers contain biodiversity, control flooding, and support communities.
Avanti c'è posto (Move on, there's room ahead!), Roma, it:Donzelli Editore, 2008 (with it:Walter Tocci and Domitilla Morandi), ISBN 978-88-6036-276-6.
In 2016, Hometalk was voted #1 in The Next Web's list of "60 of the fastest growing companies in tech".
Basing its sanitation beliefs on miasma theory (as opposed to germ theory), its agenda was based on the construction of sewage systems, street-paving, and the provision of clean water.
His second state visit to the Ottoman Empire (after the first in 1889, before his last in 1917) started in its capital Istanbul on 18 October 1898 during the reign of Abdülhamid II.
Bacon Public Lectureship and White Paper Award, University of California Sacramento Center, 2015–16.
in Charleroi; Royal Museum for Central Africa; Rolling stock on rails:-Brusame Light rail vehicles:- Nantes, Grenoble, Strasbourg, Orléans streetcar, Hydraulic power stations Centralized operating centers, control towers.
Formats for these deliverables are covered in Data Item Descriptions (DIDs) that define the data content, format, and data usages.
It is defined as education practices that encourage changes in knowledge, skills, values, and attitudes to enable a more sustainable and just society for humanity.
As the efficiency of photovoltaic panels and passive solar heating is sensitive to shading, experts suggest the complete absence of trees near the south side.
An explorative study results concluded that the perceived quality of life of residents in eco-developments rated higher perceived quality of life than residents of developments in conventional settings while still noting various challenges they experienced.
The Tamera community attributes their success to their Women's Council who confront patriarchal norms and empower women within the governance system.
His work has been incorporated into a diverse collection of museums, including the Ghent Design Museum.
Challenges and concerns Due to the increase in artificial beehives in London notably, there is mounting evidence that honey bees are greatly outnumbering wild pollinators.
Salt marshes, mangroves and beaches also support a diversity of plants, animals and insects crucial to the food chain.
And its high scrap value and ability to be continuously recycled without any loss in performance ensure its responsible management as a valuable resource.
Karen Chapple is an American city planning academic and director of the School of Cities at the University of Toronto.
Multiple certifications In September 2012, The Crystal in London became the world's first building awarded LEED Platinum and BREEAM Outstanding status.
Arborsculpture In 1995, Reames coined the word "arborsculpture" to describe tree-trunk sculptural modifications as art.
These and other speakers will gather in Singapore to address issues on the practical aspects of city governance and integrated approaches to urban development under the Summit's theme of ‘Liveable and Sustainable Cities for the Future’.
Media Hometalk is often featured across various media outlets, such as Huffington Post, Country Living, Fox & Friends, NBC, and The Today Show.
Chapple has also served on the faculties of the University of Minnesota and the University of Pennsylvania.
Over time, microbial communities within the soil matrix adapt to local pollutant loads, enhancing the long-term treatment efficiency of the system.
The American City was an American municipal affairs and urban planning magazine published by Buttenheim Publication Corporation from 1909 through 1942.
The design re-imagined Bingham Canyon Mine, the world's largest open pit mine, as a monumental work of land art.
When distributed throughout a site, infiltration can significantly help maintain the site's natural hydrology.
It also requires participatory teaching and learning methods that motivate and empower learners to change their behaviours and take action for sustainable development.
More information about biodiversity conservation in Singapore is available from the National Biodiversity Centre Archived 2010-03-11 at the Wayback Machine.
These included an open and green setting without crowding or congestion, with access to clean air, water, and exercise opportunities, as well as not having dark and unventilated buildings or polluting industries in built-up areas.
The city of Leuven, Belgium is planning depaving as part of its Leuven2050 plan to become carbon-neutral and combat the urban heat island effect.
Awarded projects must have enhanced the quality of the built environment or public domain or contribute to the wellbeing of the broader community.' In addition to the named award, the jury also can present National Awards for Urban Design and National Commendations for Urban Design.
Intentional design Equipment used for toilet training such as a potty chair will typically include a urine deflector to ensure that the urine does not splash forward and outside the receptacle.
Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA's) Safer Choice label, previously known as the Design for the Environment (DfE) label, helps consumers and commercial buyers identify and select products with safer chemical ingredients, without sacrificing quality or performance.
Projects can range in scale and scope, but all should be strategic, innovative, deliverable, and able to demonstrate how they will improve the qualities of place and result in broader public benefits.
Benefits LID has multiple benefits, such as protecting animal habitats, improving management of runoff and flooding, and reducing impervious surfaces.
Industrial clustering, e.g., concentration of technology firms in Silicon Valley, how firms benefit from being close to each other (due to sharing labour markets, suppliers, knowledge) cities with different economic roles.
Meanwhile, he had married Anna Maria Bozzola (architect, in the early 1960s was the author of a book series on arts education which became a reference in the freshly reformed Italian lower secondary school); she would be his partner during all his life.
London's Soho district was painted in this way in 2022 and Westminster council's full programme of deterrence also included posters, punishment and provision of more public toilets.
Life and career Steenson is a historian of design, architecture, and the history of those concepts alongside cybernetics and artificial intelligence.
The publication was primarily concerned with the design, care, and maintenance of civic infrastructure such as roads, parks, public buildings and public safety design.
It contains one 24-direction ring, known as the Earth Plate Correct Needle, the ring for the 64 hexagrams, and others.
The Sun takes approximately 15.2 days to traverse a solar term, a series of 24 points on the ecliptic.
Work Reames uses basic tools and ancient grafting techniques to produce his works of arborsculpture, furniture and functional objects.
Of the works leading to the creation of the Modulor, Robin Evans notes that the female body "was only belatedly considered and rejected as a source of proportional harmony".
Architectural styles often spread to other places, so that the style at its source continues to develop in new ways while other countries follow with their own twist.
Reames coined the word "arborsculpture" to describe the art of shaping living tree trunks and woody plants into sculptural forms, furniture and shelters.
The project was certified by Italy's Ministry of Justice and initially involved four prison hubs that later became eleven.
Restoration efforts The lake was gradually occupied by land grabbers and converted into a dump yard for construction debris, garbage, sewage discharge and covered in water hyacinth.
Collings ensured that Chamberlain, Mayor of Birmingham and a millionaire industrialist, chaired the meeting in Birmingham to support the Agricultural Workers' first strike.
Issues that tie urban transportation to urban economics include the deficit that most transit authorities have and efficiency questions about proposed transportation developments such as light-rail (O'Sullivan 2003:14).
Also, the engineer Iannis Xenakis applied the Modulor system to the design of the exterior vertical ventilators or "ondulatoires".
Until recent local-government reforms many cathedral closes still functioned as separate administrative units: St.
The Award is presented by the Planning Institute of Australia, Australian Institute of Architects and the Australian Institute of Landscape Architects.
The largest continuous urban parks system in North America is the North Saskatchewan River valley parks system in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, which is 7,400 ha (18,000 acres) in size and 48 km (30 mi) in length, and also includes 22 ravines, which have a combined total length of 103 km (64 mi).
Celebrate Fall Annually, the Arboretum hosts a celebration of autumn with events such as cidering, seasonal cooking demonstrations and pumpkin carving.
Each project stage is assessed using a different tool: The early stage tool, a screening tool for potential hydropower projects The preparation tool, which covers planning and design, management plans and commitments.
It normally had gates which were locked at night or when there were disturbances in the wider city, hence the name – "close" in the sense of "something enclosed".
It will look holistically at the processes in the countryside and help to find best grassland management solutions by taking into account both natural and socioeconomic factors of the particular site.
The lake is polluted with various chemicals and also used as a garbage dump by the residential colonies surrounding it.
A cathedral close is the area immediately around a cathedral, sometimes extending for a hundred metres or more from the main cathedral building.
In some cities this monthly event may occur on the first Saturday of each month instead of Friday or on "Third Thursdays".
A conventional compass has markings for four or eight directions, while a luopan typically contains markings for 24 directions.
David's cathedral close, in Pembrokeshire, counted as a separate civil parish distinct from that of the adjacent village-city for some 50 years after the 1914 disestablishment of the Church in Wales.
She argues that our ideas of artificial intelligence are outdated and this inhibits peoples' ability to understand what it really is.
From the Balkans to Spain, and from Malta to Estonia, these buildings represent an important part of European heritage.
Urban Planning relates the rights and dues of the population (land ownership and its rights) to the urban structure under the responsibility of the Local Authority.
Sustainable landscaping is a modern type of gardening or landscaping that takes the environmental issue of sustainability into account.
It is also important to be careful about what materials you use, especially if you plan to grow food crops.
Waterway restoration is the activity of restoring a canal or river, including special features such as warehouse buildings, locks, boat lifts, and boats.
At the present time, canal restoration in the UK is carried out by a mixture of volunteers and professionals working on a large variety of projects.
In addition DFARS 252.242–7001 and 252.242–7002 provide guidance for integrating IMP/IMS with Earned Value Management.
https://www.politico.com/newsletters/politico-china-watcher/2022/01/27/putins-ukraine-playbook-is-xis-taiwan-primer-00002608 External links Official website
The rule is believed to be the work of Johann Bernoulli, since l'Hôpital, a nobleman, paid Bernoulli a retainer of 300₣ per year to keep him updated on developments in calculus and to solve problems he had.
Leibniz then asserts that different principles and geometry cannot simply be from the will of God, but must follow from his understanding.
Influence Madhava has been called "the greatest mathematician-astronomer of medieval India", some of his discoveries in this field show him to have possessed extraordinary intuition".
Leibniz used the principle to extend concepts such as arithmetic operations from ordinary numbers to infinitesimals, laying the groundwork for infinitesimal calculus.
As Diophantus V.11 shows, it means an approximate equality, and this is indeed how Fermat explains the word in one of his later writings." (Weil 1973).
Contributions to mathematics Wallis made significant contributions to trigonometry, calculus, geometry, and the analysis of infinite series.
4th century - The Pappus's centroid theorem, 5th century - Zu Chongzhi established a method that would later be called Cavalieri's principle to find the volume of a sphere.
{{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) Molland, George (2004) "Swineshead, Richard", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography
"Derivation of remainder term for the Series expansion of π as depicted in Yukthibhasa and its modern Interpretation".
External links Works by or about Nicole Oresme at the Internet Archive (SPC) MSS BH 100 COCH Volume of works by Nicole Oresme, Maffeo Vegio, and Jordanus von Osnabrück at OPenn Kirschner, Stefan (2021).
Berkeley's farmhouse in Middletown, Rhode Island, is preserved as Whitehall Museum House, also known as Berkeley House, and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1970.
Niels Henrik Abel called him a "bigoted Catholic" and added he was "mad and there is nothing that can be done about him", but at the same time praised him as a mathematician.
Very often Ibn al-Haytham's discoveries benefited from the intersection of mathematical and experimental contributions.
The section contains Newton's proof that a massive spherically symmetrical body attracts other bodies outside itself as if all its mass were concentrated at its centre.
Much of his vast correspondence, especially the letters dated after 1700, remains unpublished, and much of what is published has appeared only in recent decades.
That academy evolved into the German Academy of Sciences, the publisher of the ongoing Leibniz-Edition of his works.
The volume of the cube (red) minus the volume of the eight pyramids (blue) is the volume of the bicylinder (white).
Generally, in English-language books, limits go to the right of the integral symbol: ∫ 0 5 f ( t ) d t , ∫ g ( t ) = a g ( t ) = b f ( t ) d t .
The transfer principle provides a mathematical implementation of the law of continuity in the context of the hyperreal numbers.
Leibniz's formulation Leibniz expressed the law in the following terms in 1701: In any supposed continuous transition, ending in any terminus, it is permissible to institute a general reasoning, in which the final terminus may also be included (Cum Prodiisset).
That is done as follows: Consider a sphere of radius r {\displaystyle r} and a cylinder of radius r {\displaystyle r} and height r {\displaystyle r} .
Writings Archimedes made his work known through correspondence with mathematicians in Alexandria, which were originally written in Doric Greek, the dialect of ancient Syracuse.
As calculus developed further, infinitesimals were replaced by limits, which can be calculated using the standard real numbers.
In mathematics, an infinitesimal number is a non-zero quantity that is closer to 0 than any non-zero real number is.
He is also credited with designing innovative machines, such as his screw pump, compound pulleys, and defensive war machines to protect his native Syracuse from invasion.
More specifically, the colour red can be perceived in apples, strawberries, and tomatoes, yet we would not know what these might look like without its colour.
Marking a quarter circle at twenty-four equal intervals, he gave the lengths of the half-chord (sines) corresponding to each of them.
In 1675 he tried to get admitted to the French Academy of Sciences as a foreign honorary member, but it was considered that there were already enough foreigners there and so no invitation came.
the great question of the power of sovereigns and the obedience their peoples owe them, I usually say that it would be good for princes to be persuaded that their people have the right to resist them, and for the people, on the other hand, to be persuaded to obey them passively.
Oresme agrees with fluxus formae in that motion is attributed to an object, but that an object is "set into" motion, rather than "given" motion, denying a distinction between a motionless object and an object in motion.
As a professor of the École Polytechnique, Cauchy had been a notoriously bad lecturer, assuming levels of understanding that only a few of his best students could reach, and cramming his allotted time with too much material.
So, the final equation gets the form: y ˙ = Δ y Δ t = 4 o o = 4 {\displaystyle {\dot {y}}={\frac {\Delta y}{\Delta t}}={\frac {4o}{o}}=4} He justified the use of ⁠ o {\displaystyle o} ⁠ as a non-zero quantity by stating that fluxions were a consequence of movement by an object.
But nevertheless integrating this term-by-term gives (1), an identity which is known to be true by Fourier analysis.
600 - Liu Zhuo is the first person to use second-order interpolation for computing the positions of the sun and the moon.
Moscow, Nauka, 1970 Zbl 0263.01002 External links O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Guillaume de l'Hôpital", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews
Criticism Bishop George Berkeley, a prominent philosopher of the time, denounced Newton's fluxions in his essay The Analyst, published in 1734.
Archimedes also derives several formulae for determining the area and volume of various solids including sphere, cone, paraboloid and hyperboloid.
Archimedes' principle of buoyancy is given in this work, stated as follows: Any body wholly or partially immersed in fluid experiences an upthrust equal to, but opposite in direction to, the weight of the fluid displaced.
Extensions of the symbol Related symbols include: Typography in other languages In other languages, the shape of the integral symbol differs slightly from the shape commonly seen in English-language textbooks.
He was from Gascony, where his father, Dominique Fermat, was a wealthy leather merchant and served three one-year terms as one of the four consuls of Beaumont-de-Lomagne.
Disputes and controversy Although Johann and his brother Jacob Bernoulli worked together before Johann graduated from Basel University, shortly after this, the two developed a jealous and competitive relationship.
In virtue of this transposition, the theorem of the latitudo uniformiter difformis became the law of the space traversed in case of uniformly varied motion; thus Oresme published what was taught over two centuries prior to Galileo's making it famous.
Bicylinder A bicylinder generated by two cylinders with radius r has the volume V = 16 3 r 3 , {\displaystyle V={\frac {16}{3}}r^{3},} and the surface area A = 16 r 2 .
In 1831, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, and the following year a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Newton's defence has been adopted since by many famous physicists—he pointed out that the mathematical form of the theory had to be correct since it explained the data, and he refused to speculate further on the basic nature of gravity.
On March 1, 1849, he was reinstated at the Faculté de Sciences, as a professor of mathematical astronomy.
{\displaystyle A=8B=16r^{2}.} Alternate proof of the volume formula To derive the volume of a bicylinder (white), one can enclose it within a cube (red).
That odd number at which this process ends, four times the diameter should be multiplied by the next even number, halved and [then] divided by one added to that [even] number squared.
L'Hôpital may have felt fully justified in describing these results in his book, after acknowledging his debt to Leibniz and the Bernoulli brothers, "especially the younger one" (Johann).
In number theory, Fermat studied Pell's equation, perfect numbers, amicable numbers and what would later become Fermat numbers.
Generalisation to measures Let μ {\displaystyle \mu } be a measure on Ω ⊂ R N {\displaystyle \Omega \subset \mathbb {R} ^{N}} .
Thus, the area bounded by a rectangle above a single complete arch of the cycloid has area equal to the area of the circle, and so, the area bounded by the arch is three times the area of the circle.
1636 ) to calculate maxima and minima of functions, tangents to curves, area, center of mass, least action, and other problems in calculus.
(2011), "How ordinary elimination became Gaussian elimination", Historia Mathematica, 38 (2): 163–218, arXiv:0907.2397, doi:10.1016/j.hm.2010.06.003, S2CID 14259511 Rolle, Michel (1690).
"[T]he appropriate nature of each substance brings it about that what happens to one corresponds to what happens to all the others, without, however, their acting upon one another directly" (Discourse on Metaphysics, XIV).
Two volumes treating the differential and integral calculus, respectively, had been authored by Johann Bernoulli in 1691–1692, and the latter was published in 1724 to become the first published textbook on the integral calculus.
de Sarasa associated this feature with contemporary algorithms called logarithms that economized arithmetic by rendering multiplications into additions.
Newton's tract De motu corporum in gyrum, which he sent to Halley in late 1684, derived what is now known as the three laws of Kepler, assuming an inverse square law of force, and generalised the result to conic sections.
Al-Haytham was dubbed the "Second Ptolemy" by Abu'l-Hasan Bayhaqi and "The Physicist" by John Peckham.
Thus, these laws can be called the laws of nature, because they are derived from God—the creator of nature himself.
The second edition (1713) were printed in 750 copies, and the third edition (1726) were printed in 1,250 copies.
Thus, Madhava may have invented the ideas underlying infinite series expansions of functions, power series, trigonometric series, and rational approximations of infinite series.
Gilain notes that when the portion of the curriculum devoted to Analyse Algébrique was reduced in 1825, Cauchy insisted on placing the topic of continuous functions (and therefore also infinitesimals) at the beginning of the Differential Calculus.
De Leeuw points out that even the "purely scientific" contributions of Wallis to the science of linguistics in the field of the "rationality" of Natural language as it developed over time, played a role in the development of cryptology as a science.
While Newton worked with fluxions and fluents, Leibniz based his approach on generalizations of sums and differences.
[judge] rashly and erroneously about future events." Oresme's critique of astrology in his Livre de divinacions treats it as having six parts.
According to Descartes's theory of vortices, planetary motions were produced by the whirling of fluid vortices that filled interplanetary space and carried the planets along with them.
He is also remembered for developing the Carnot wall, a system of fortification that became widely employed in continental Europe during the 19th century.
The key for the determination of volume and surface area is the observation that the tricylinder can be resampled by the cube with the vertices where 3 edges meet (s.
Jacob von Staehlin wrote a short obituary for the Russian Academy of Sciences and Russian mathematician Nicolas Fuss, one of Euler's disciples, wrote a more detailed eulogy, which he delivered at a memorial meeting.
In the theory of series he developed the notion of convergence and discovered many of the basic formulas for q-series.
Like his predecessors Albert the Great, Thomas Aquinas and Peter of Auvergne (and quite unlike Aristotle), Oresme favours monarchy as the best form of government.
They were among the first mathematicians to not only study and understand calculus but to apply it to various problems.
Proposition 11: The volume of a cone (or cylinder) of the same height is proportional to the area of the base.
Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica From the Rare Book and Special Collection Division at the Library of Congress Second edition (1713) ETH-Bibliothek Zürich.
He communicated most of his work in letters to friends, often with little or no proof of his theorems.
One of the people he influenced was Jaime Escalante, who taught math to minority students at Garfield High School in East Los Angeles.
Newton described any variable that changed its value as a fluent – for example, the velocity of a ball thrown in the air.
Analyse algébrique ("Analysis Course" in English) is a seminal textbook in infinitesimal calculus published by Augustin-Louis Cauchy in 1821.
According to Koetsier, the generality of algebra principle assumed, roughly, that the algebraic rules that hold for a certain class of expressions can be extended to hold more generally on a larger class of objects, even if the rules are no longer obviously valid.
It was his initiative to train the conscripts in the art of war and to place new recruits with experienced soldiers rather than having a massive volunteer army without any real idea of how to wage battle.
Work Early work The genius of Cauchy was illustrated in his simple solution of the problem of Apollonius—describing a circle touching three given circles—which he discovered in 1805, his generalization of Euler's formula on polyhedra in 1811, and in several other elegant problems.
These infinitesimals have different first-order properties than the reals because, for example, the basic infinitesimal x does not have a square root.
Imagine that the x {\displaystyle x} -axis is a lever, with a fulcrum at x = 0 {\displaystyle x=0} .
This leads to V = ∫ − r r ( 2 x ) 2 d z = 4 ⋅ ∫ − r r x 2 d z = 4 ⋅ ∫ − r r ( r 2 − z 2 ) d z = 16 3 r 3 .
Most ciphers were ad hoc methods relying on a secret algorithm, as opposed to systems based on a variable key.
Newton introduced the concept in 1665 and detailed them in his mathematical treatise, Method of Fluxions.
A related law of continuity concerning intersection numbers in geometry was promoted by Jean-Victor Poncelet in his "Traité des propriétés projectives des figures".
A 2012 study argues that Leibniz's TLH was a precursor of the standard part function over the hyperreals.
(1993), A History of Mathematics / An Introduction (2nd ed.), Addison Wesley Longman, ISBN 978-0-321-01618-8 Mazur, Joseph (2014), Enlightening Symbols / A Short History of Mathematical Notation and Its Hidden Powers, Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0-691-17337-5 Swokowski, Earl W.
On the other hand, this method can be used to rigorously define the derivative for a wide class of functions using neither infinitesimal nor limit techniques.
In 1739–1742, two French priests, Pères Thomas LeSeur and François Jacquier (of the Minim order, but sometimes erroneously identified as Jesuits), produced with the assistance of J.-L.
These activities did not make Cauchy popular with his colleagues, who, on the whole, supported the Enlightenment ideals of the French Revolution.
Solving these equations, we see that the intersection of these two medians is above the point x = 2 / 3 {\displaystyle x=2/3} , so that the total effect of the triangle on the lever is as if the total mass of the triangle were pushing down on (or hanging from) this point.
When Napoleon came to power in 1799, Louis-François Cauchy was further promoted, and became Secretary-General of the Senate, working directly under Laplace (who is now better known for his work on mathematical physics).
Leibniz introduced the symbol ∫ {\displaystyle \int } for the integral and wrote the derivative of a function y of the variable x as d y d x {\displaystyle {\frac {dy}{dx}}} , both of which are still in use.
In works such as Cours d'Analyse, Cauchy rejected the use of "generality of algebra" methods and sought a more rigorous foundation for mathematical analysis.
He was perhaps the greatest of the Oxford Calculators of Merton College, where he was a fellow certainly by 1344 and possibly by 1340.
The method of exhaustion (Latin: methodus exhaustionis) is a method of finding the area of a shape by inscribing inside it a sequence of polygons (one at a time) whose areas converge to the area of the containing shape.
Thus, if a {\displaystyle a} is finite and d x {\displaystyle dx} is infinitesimal, then one sets a + d x = a .
Red jersey as points classification leader In 1968, the leader of the points classification in the Tour de France wore a red jersey.
It has a close cousin, haunches-out, renvers, or croupe au mur ("rump to the wall"), that is slightly more difficult.
Aaron Huglen scored a Michigan goal for the United States against Canada in the semifinals of the 2018 Hlinka Gretzky Cup, an under-18 tournament.
A batsman who is dismissed by the first ball they face is said to have been dismissed for a golden duck.
Maiden horse races are held over a variety of distances and under conditions with eligibility based on the sex or age of the horse.
Radio broadcasting requires the commentator to describe the action in detail because the listeners could not see it for themselves.
Then, on August 17, outfielder Randy Arozarena recorded a platinum sombrero in a 7–2 loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates.
Due to the chock being related to the rear of the car at the start, and readings being taken from the front of the car at the finish, the degree of precision within which cars could be timed was limited.
Mike Redmond's streak of 253 games without an error between 2004 and 2010 set a new MLB record for catchers.
A save is a statistic credited to a relief pitcher, as set forth in Rule 9.19 of the Official Rules of Major League Baseball.
These names are relative to the batsman, so a right-handed batsman's leg stump becomes the off stump when a left-handed player is batting.
In 2004, the ACB League changed the criteria by which it chooses the regular season MVP award, but it continues to use PIR to determine the MVP of each week of the season.
In many countries, maiden races are the lowest level of class and represent an entry point into a racing career.
At low Elo, a skilled player will likely find it easy to rise in rank, while at high Elo, the quality of players improves.
It is generally helpful to have begun other simple lateral movements, such as the leg-yield to teach the horse the concept of moving away from the leg, advancing to the shoulder-in to introduce the three-track movement.
This is also the desirable range for wicket-keepers, though some fall short and make up for it with keeping skill.
The best strategy is to reach over the net in a “claw” like manner and hit the ball INTO the net causing the ball to drop on the opponent’s side making it impossible for the opponents to play the point.
The intent is to confuse the receiving team while allowing the serving side to preposition one player at the net, putting pressure on the receiving side to make a quality fourth shot.
Limited overs formats of cricket take place in one day, with List A matches lasting for six hours or more, and T20, 100-ball and T10 matches lasting from 90 minutes to three hours.
At the 2023 IIHF World Women's U18 Championship, Slovakia's Nela Lopušanová, aged 14 at the time, scored a high wrap goal in a quarterfinal game against Sweden.
Flare screen: Player without the ball on the perimeter seeks to set a screen (usually near the elbow area of the lane) for another player without the ball at the top of the key area.
Noting that Cassioli's design showed a Roman amphitheatre for what was originally a Greek games, a new obverse design was commissioned for the Athens Games.
If their scores have a geometric distribution, then this statistic is the maximum likelihood estimate of their true unknown average.
The blown save was adopted as part of the points system used by the Rolaids Relief Man Award starting in 1988.
killing an enemy with low player HP, and then killing another enemy - in a panic - which is being dealt by someone else.
Although the term "personal best" is increasingly used in official sports statistics, it can also refer to an unofficial best individual performance.
Facial robusticity, which includes traits such as jaw adductor muscle strength and brow ridge size, may offer a protective effect against combat.
See also Association football positions Rugby league positions Rugby union positions == References ==
E E-grade Part of the British adjectival grading system that is used to rank the level of risk (a separate grade is given for technical difficulty) of traditional climbing routes, and which goes E1, E2, E3, ...
Spanish La Liga has the strongest home team advantage, and English football league two has the lowest home team advantage, among analysed leagues.
Australian rules football In Australian rules football, the wingers require considerable pace and stamina, as they run up and down the ground linking play between defence and attack and are normally highly skilled in kicking.
Later it happened twice in France in the qualifiers of lowest-level professional events, two of them in the span of two months, both against the same 55-year-old man, Tomas Fabian.
From Year 7 Season 4 (Operation Solar Raid) onwards, Ubisoft implemented a new Ranked/Competitive play system into their game Rainbow Six Siege, named Ranked 2.0.
F Foul A foul occurs when the attacking team commits a violation of the rules; until the foul has been cleared, the attacking team is not allowed to tag any defenders.
This leads to an increase in revenue for both the team which the superstar plays for, and the opposing team, as well as the league as a whole.
The instant the bails are dislodged from the top of the stumps, the wicket is put down (there are other ways in which a wicket can be put down if the bails have already been removed).
In multiplayer video games, particularly in MOBAs, first-person shooters, MMORPGs and MUDs, kill stealing is the practice of obtaining credit for killing an enemy when another player has put more effort into the kill.
In basketball the captain can be substituted out of the game and there does not need to be an active captain on the court at all times, but in association football a captain must be on the field at all times.
It also can refer to the shoulder and armpit area, on the paddle side of a player's body, that when targeted can force the player to make a chicken wing defensive shot.
A good faith attempt to secure a kill on an enemy that might otherwise have gotten away can sometimes be perceived as a kill steal if the other player believes the kill was already certain.
Manner of dismissing a batsman Stumps are very important in the game of cricket as they determine when the wicket is "put down".
Background The strategy is an adaptation from early research theories proposed by mechanical engineering professor at Princeton University and baseball statistician Earnshaw Cook.
There are no restrictions on the material used to make the strut, so long as the strut itself conforms to the regulations, and some designs can be very simple to construct.
In countries such as the United States, maiden special weight races rank above claiming races, while maiden claiming races allow the horse to be claimed (bought) by another owner.
They are ordinarily unstable and tend to transpose into a stable formation with a pawn push or exchange.
If an attacker has chosen a direction, it is considered a foul for their shoulder line to face more than 90 degrees away from that direction.
NTRP rating: National Tennis Rating Program rating; system used in the United States to rank players on a scale from 1 to 7, with 1 being an absolute beginner and 7 a touring pro.
Spot serving/spot server: Serving with precision, resulting in the ball landing either on or near the intersection of the center service line and service line or singles tramline and service line.
Because an arena worker had failed to place a protective piece between the rim and the backboard, the backboard shattered.
Factors related to the game rules In a number of sports, the hosting team has the advantage of playing with their first choice uniforms, while the visiting team wears their alternative away/road colors.
Volleyball player specialization is highly refined and strategy focuses on how to use specialized players in unequal ways.
NBA The rules of the National Basketball Association do not mention how forfeitures are dealt with, but mention it is a possible sanction on a player or coach who violates the rules on ejections.
Intervals Because of the length of the game, there are a number of intervals that occur in a game of cricket.
The combine the use of slow motion, instant replay, and other technologies to deliver an analysis that will engage the audience.
Outpoint is a term frequently used in boxing to describe a situation in which one boxer is awarded more points than their opponent by the judges, but does not knock out that opponent.
alpine knee An awkward climbing technique where the knee is placed on the hold rather than the foot.
Wingers often try to use pace to exploit extra space available on the flanks that can be made available by their teammates dominating the centre ground.
This is important because the reaction of the captain may or may not determine how the referee will proceed.
The president of an academic association may title his farewell column to the members "A Ninth-Inning Farewell".
The team that released him is responsible for the salary the player is owed, less what he is paid by the team that signs him.
Also called the "odd service court", since a side's score will be odd whenever that side's starting server is serving from the left side of the court.
During the play, when the wheel offense is in the 1-3-1 formation, it can also switch to other plays based on the same formation.
The inside hind leg remains engaged throughout the half-pass, and the horse should not lose its rhythm.
(This is in contrast to American football, where if the ball is dead and time expires, the quarter immediately ends.) In leagues that use the Kansas playoff for overtime (including Canadian, college and most high school football), all overtime play is untimed.
In One Day International (50 over) cricket, the average run rate has been increasing from around 4 when the format was first played in the 1970s to over 5 in recent years.
When moving along the wall of the arena, the horse's shoulders move toward the inside and the horse remains bent in the direction of movement.
By using sets of screens and cuts, this 2-1-2 formation can be maneuvered into a 1-3-1 formation, with the ball-handler on the wing.
This results in players receiving unfair penalties and the so-called 'victims' receiving free-kicks and other rewards unjustly.
Players' suitability for certain positions is often linked to specific attributes and skill requirements.
Amateur Era singles records Gerald Patterson allegedly holds the record for the most double faults committed in a Grand Slam final: he committed 27 double faults in a 71-game match against John Hawkes in the 1927 Australian Championships, but still managed to clinch the victory.
Days are scheduled as six hours of playing time, but there is a requirement that a minimum of 90 six-ball overs are bowled, and the third session may run overtime if the over rate has been slower than this.
A player can only be outrighted without his consent once during his career, and a player with more than five years of major league service time can reject an outright.
ATP Tour Among all players, active or retired, the worst average of double faults per match, shared between Henrik Holm and Radomír Vašek, is 7.2, while Gilbert Schaller has the best average, at 1.0.
First serve: The first of the two attempts to serve that a player is allowed at the beginning of a point.
Modern FIBA Level 1 competition units (as used in NCAA, NBA, Euroleague and FIBA competitions) use a direct-mount system, where the basket ring is attached to a metal beam, with a hole in the backboard where the beam is connected to the unit.
Open Era singles records Double faults have been officially recorded by the top-level professional tennis circuits since 1991.
After doing so, in the following half inning where his team had to pitch, he would place the next reliever.
Interpretation If a batter has been dismissed in every single innings, then this statistic gives exactly the average number of runs they score per innings.
Red jersey as general classification leader Since 2010, the leader of the general classification in the Vuelta a España and La Vuelta Femenina wears a red jersey.
In modern usage, a "golden sombrero" is four strikeouts, and a "platinum sombrero" (also known as the "Olympic rings," a term coined by Baltimore Orioles pitcher Bill Scherrer) is five strikeouts.
This might be due to the other side accidentally hitting an attackable ball or to catch the other team off guard.
The introduction of more accurate light beam timing required that all cars provide a consistent surface with which to break the beam at both start and finish of the timed section.
Calculation The stat's formula is: (points + rebounds + assists + steals + blocks + fouls drawn) − (missed field goals + missed free throws + turnovers + shots rejected + fouls committed).
Another way players have attempted to bypass Elo hell is by smurfing, or creating new accounts without a skill rating, which allows them to ascend in rank faster than they would with their original account.
A silver medal, in sports and other similar areas involving competition, is a medal made of, or plated with, silver awarded to the second-place finisher, or runner-up, of contests or competitions such as the Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games, etc.
The fight is either between two randomly matched applicants whose identity will be kept until the matching day or between two attendees with unresolved conflicts.
The tennis term was coined by players Harold Solomon and Eddie Dibbs, and popularized by commentator Bud Collins.
However, they can not use oil in puppet headgear, as the puppet heads, made of cypress, would lose adhesion when color pigments are applied during restoration.
In 1948 Don Budge won the first round match against George Hudson 6–0, 6–0, 6–0 at the US Professional Championship, and then against Jerome Adler 6–0, 6–0, 6–1 in the second round.
In certain sports, such as football, field hockey, ice hockey, handball, rugby union, lacrosse and rugby league, winger is a position.
Once the play is set up, the wheel offense can work effectively against both man-to-man defense and zone defense.
Outright from the 40-man roster After clearing waivers when being designated for assignment, a player is often removed outright from the 40-man roster and transferred to the roster of a minor-league affiliate of the organization.
This, combined with the color of the roof, caused opposing baseball players to commit more errors in the Dome than in other ballparks.
ERA does not account for inherited runners a reliever allows to score, and W-L record does not account for relievers protecting leads.
It bears the name of entrepreneur and Tigres del Mexico founder Alejo Peralta who established and implemented its use with Tigres starting in the 1970s.
In that case, the IIHF judged both teams equally at fault, and declared the game null and void (as opposed to either or both teams forfeiting the game).
It is employed by the Spanish Riding School, due to their belief that travers encourages the horse to travel crookedly with their haunches leaning toward the center of the arena.
In the TBT implementation, the game clock proceeds normally until the first dead ball with 4:00 or less remaining in the fourth quarter.
Throughout the history of basketball, there have always been athletes with the size and strength to dunk through rims.
In professional sumo, tokoyama work under a pseudonym that always starts with the kanji for 'floor' or 'bed' (床, pronounced toko) in their names.
In the east, Landau and Tumarkin's Bessarabian constituency, comprising some of the poorest and least integrated sections of Romanian Jews, provided the PER with its other main electoral resource.
Footnotes External links Records of the Bay Area Council for Soviet Jews at the American Jewish Historical Society.
The head of a Berber village describes how the Jewish community was established in the village, and the narrative goes on to recount the details of the second wave of Jewish immigration from the Iberian Peninsula following the Spanish Inquisition.
See also Jewish-American working class Jewish left References External links Encountering Chutzpah, Graylit Myron Perlman, Z”L, a Founder of the Chutzpah Collective, Jewish Currents
References External links Raul Geller at National-Football-Teams.com Profile of Raul Geller on JewsInSports.org
Its production was funded by thee Ha-Mizrakh Society of Odessa in the Russian Empire and occurred during a two-month visit of the Russian and Ukrainian filmmakers to Palestine.
Forced hiatus 1938 outlawing The PER was again drawn into cooperation with the UER, issuing common protests against the antisemitic encroachment, and reestablishing the CCER.
Psychological well-being of Naale students The Naale students, while enrolled in the program, seem to have a lower level of psychological distress comparing to their peers who immigrated with their parents and are living in the community.
These congregations were most active in resisting anti-Zionist propaganda as pressed through the synagogues.
Routes of Exile: A Moroccan Jewish Odyssey is a 1982 documentary about the origin and history of the Moroccan Jews, directed and produced by Eugene Rosow with producers Howard Dratch & Vivian Kleiman.
Wirth-Nesher and Professor Avraham Novershtern of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Beth Shalom Aleichem co-direct the academic program, which offers 80 hours of intensive Yiddish language instruction.
With regard to these unresolved 56 cases, the commission deemed it "possible" that the children were handed over for adoption following decisions made by individual local social workers, but not as part of an official policy.
Moreover, through a female Polish agent, the British established a channel of communication with the anti-Nazi chief of the Abwehr, Admiral Wilhelm Canaris.
As the two struggle to pick up traces of her father, the Iraqi journalist takes to the streets of Baghdad, combing the Al Musbah district where Menuhin once lived with her family.
It is headed by a board of directors that in 2013 was chaired by Dennis Ross, the special advisor for the Persian Gulf Southwest Asia in U.S.
Israeli settlements Since 2005 On 5 November 2020, Israeli bulldozers demolished most of the village of Khirbet Humsa al-Fawqa and forced 73 of its Palestinian residents, including 41 children to leave in what was the largest demolition in years.
Included is a discussion of the impact of French culture and schools on the Moroccan Jews during Morocco's tenure as a French Protectorate.
After Moroccan independence in 1956, through an agreement between Isser Harel of the Mossad and Shlomo Zalman Shragai of the Jewish Agency, the two organizations would recruit Moroccan Jews and organize their clandestine migration by land and by sea.
Most of the camps transformed into development towns, among them Kiryat Shmona, Sderot, Beit She'an, Yokneam, Or Yehuda and Migdal HaEmek.
UCSJ is based in Washington, D.C., and is linked to other organizations such as the Moscow Helsinki Group.
Upon returning to Israel, Menuhin blogs about her experiences in Jordan and is then contacted by an Iraqi journalist who takes interest in her story and that of her father, Yaakoub Abdul Aziz, who disappeared in Iraq decades earlier.
History The program was run in pilot mode until 2000, after which it was expanded to other countries and took on its current form.
The effects of the worldwide economic depression of 1929 hit Keren Hayesod hard, but after Hitler's rise to power in 1933, Keren Hayesod helped to develop the Haifa Bay suburbs to provide housing for German Jews fleeing the Nazis.
List of ministers The Minister of Tourism (Hebrew: שָׁר הַתַּיָּרוּת, Sar HaTayarut) is the political head of the ministry and a member of the Israeli cabinet.
According to historian Idith Zertal, it functioned as "an impossible conglomerate of the Communists, the socialist Zionist groups, and leftist political parties, as well as Yiddishist organizations.
The office was created in 1964, with Akiva Govrin being the first minister, but was appended to the Trade and Industry Ministry between 1977 and 1981.
In the early 1990s Bay Area Council for Jewish Rescue and Renewal helped the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews to establish human rights bureaus in the Former Soviet Union to support and protect Jews and other religious and national minorities.
In 2020, certain Members of Knesset took umbrage at the fact that benefits owed to some 950 former Prisoners of Zion and former members of Jewish resistance groups were paid out based not on acts performed as Prisoners of Zion, but rather based on Prisoners' disability ratings and income.
A research scholar Shoshana Madmoni-Gerber—( author of "Israeli Media and the Framing of Internal Conflict: the Yemenite Babies Affair, 2009) had concluded in her book with hundreds of testimonies that the disappearance of babies was a state sponsored conspiracy.
The 1992 attack on the Israeli embassy and the 1994 bombing of the Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires also helped create an impetus for Jews to emigrate.
Raul Geller (Hebrew: ראול גלר; born 23 January 1936) is a Peruvian-Israeli former professional footballer, who played as a forward, and an orthopaedic surgeon.
1979 Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty Israeli settlements Israeli settlements in the Sinai Peninsula were evacuated as a result of the 1979 Egypt–Israel peace treaty.
By June 2014, it was estimated by the end of 2014 a full 1 percent of the French Jewish community will have made aliyah to Israel, the largest in a single year.
Sinclair created the following sections: A central foreign counter-espionage Circulating Section, Section V, to liaise with the Security Service to collate counter-espionage reports from overseas stations.
References External links Vaan Nguyen at IMDb Vaan Nguyen on Facebook Vaan Nguyen on Instagram Vaan nguyen in Haaretz talking about her book, "Eye of the Truffle".
Golda Meir, Foreign Minister of Israel, declared that the Moroccan authorities bore the brunt of the blame for the ship's sinking.
History The Jewish People Policy Institute (JPPI) is a think tank founded by the Jewish Agency in 2002 to protect and advance the Jewish people and Israel.
Overall, in these years, the agency, in partnership with other organizations, helped over 150,000 people in their attempt to enter Palestine, organizing a total of 141 voyages on 116 ships.
Most of El Al's aircraft are named for Israeli cities, such as Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Bet Shemesh, Nazeret, Haifa, and others.
Amnesty International wrote to the Yemeni government, urging the country to protect its Jewish citizens.
List of Palestinian villages from which tenant farmers were uprooted before 1948, with the cause of the uprooting (i.e., sale by landlord or some other cause) given along with the name of Jewish settlements on newly acquired land (in parentheses) can be seen below.
History The company's initial goals were the establishment of agricultural settlements and industrial enterprises to assist in the absorption of German Jewish immigrants.
Bricha was part of the larger operation known as Aliyah Bet, and ended with the establishment of Israel, after which immigration to the Jewish state was legal, although emigration was still sometimes prohibited, as happened in both the Eastern Bloc and Arab countries (see for example refusenik).
The collective objected to the commercialization of Hanukkah and the assimilationism they felt had turned the holiday into a "pale imitation of the goyish holiday of Christmas." The journal Chutzpah was the official organ of the Chutzpah Collective.
The founders were Yeshayahu Foerder, Georg Landauer, Ludwig Pinner, Arthur Ruppin and David Senator.
Financial instabilities in the early 1980s hit many moshavim hard, as did their high birth rate and the problem of absorbing all the children who might wish to remain in the community.
While her father never spoke about his experiences during the war, Hana later learned that he had been caught trying to cross the Russian border with his brother and his brother's son, and the Nazis had forced him to play his violin while they massacred Jews.
Demographics Jewish immigrants from the former Soviet Union Evolution among the Israeli populace Economic integration in Israel The immigrants integrated relatively successfully in the Israeli economy, and they are characterized as having a higher rate of participation in the work market.
Fourth Aliyah (1924–1929) Between 1924 and 1929, 82,000 Jews arrived, many as a result of increasing anti-Semitism in Poland and throughout Europe.
Everyone thinks that there were only Prisoners of Zion in Europe, but there were also many Ethiopians.
During 2002 and 2003 the Jewish Agency launched an intensive public campaign to promote aliyah from the region, and offered additional economic aid for immigrants from Argentina and Uruguay.
Similar instances of harassment and violence prompted Jews throughout Yemen to emigrate in larger and more frequent waves.
The Kedmi Commission; was commissioned during the Prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, in the year 1995 (after the unsuccessful conclusion of the Minkovski-Bahlul Commission and the Shalgi Commission) the commission's finding were publicly released in November 2001.
The Yemeni community was dissatisfied with the commissions findings, thus resulted in ordering a second commission in 1988 the Shalgi Commission.
Ma'abarot (Hebrew: מעברות, singular: Ma'abara Hebrew: מעברה) were immigrant and refugee absorption camps established in Israel in the 1950s, constituting one of the largest public projects planned by the state to implement its sociospatial and housing policies.
At this stage, the PCR was viewing immigration as a potential asset, since an indoctrinated Romanian Jewish colony could bring Palestine, and subsequently Israel, into the Eastern bloc, ensuring that government was formed by the Hebrew Communists.
The Life of the Jews in Palestine (French: La vie des Juifs en Palestine, Hebrew: חיי היהודים בארץ ישראל, Russian: «Жизнь евреев в Палестине») is a 1913 Russian silent documentary film directed by Noah Sokolovsky depicting Jews and Jewish communities in Ottoman Palestine.
With the establishment of the Jewish Agency in 1929, Keren Hayesod became its fundraising arm while continuing its own wide-ranging activities.
Community projects and facilities were financed by a special tax (Hebrew: מס ועד, romanized: mas va'ad, lit.
Large protests broke out in July 2019 after Solomon Teka, a young Ethiopian man, was shot and killed by an off-duty policy officer, in Kiryat Haim, Haifa, in northern Israel.
During the same year Gracia Mendes Nasi and Joseph Nasi established in addition to Tiberias seven more Jewish villages.
The Board of Deputies of British Jews sent an open letter to the WZO demanding an "explanation and calling for urgent remedial action" over the violent harassment.
Esther Meir-Glitzenstein showed evidence how the community's sentiment for aliyah played a part in the exodus, the extent of which surprised even the Jewish state and the agency in charge of the operation, who were not prepared for the mass of Jews who were fleeing Yemen.
Benvenisti elaborates: "I dissolved the Jewish Party, believing that there is no longer a need for it under the current regime." According to a notice in Adevărul: "The steering committee of the Jewish Party of Romania has decided to dissolve the party on December 4, 1947".
One is struck, in discussion with them, with the absence of the qualification, the reservation, the tentative attitude.
The Committee was established with a constitutive session on 7 June 1945, though it was only truly active from 22 July.
Military service Alalu served as a combat soldier in the Israeli Artillery Corps, an Israel Defense Forces's corps responsible for operating medium and long-range artillery.
The Young Activism programs include (a) support for Young Communities, groups of idealistic young Israelis who commit to settling long-term in Israel's high-need areas and creating programs that increase local quality of life.
Political career Pepe began his career as an activist and chairman of the Jewish student cell in Lima, Peru, and was also active in local left-wing political parties.
Book of Isaiah 40:31 – But they that wait upon the LORD shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.
As of April 2024, the president of the aid group Struggle to Save Ethiopian Jewry (SSEJ) estimated that some 13,000 people were still waiting.
Some of those immigrants returned to Argentina in the wake of Argentine economic growth from 2003 onwards.
Subsequently, a branch of the UCSJ was closed by the government of Belarus as part of what many observers saw as a wider crackdown on political dissent in the region.
Chronology of Aliyah in modern times breaks down the various waves of Aliyah, the migration of Jews to Israel in modern times, that have occurred from the 19th century to today.
The company built residential neighborhoods all over Israel, including the Rassco neighborhood in Jerusalem that bears its name.
Shoshana Bouzaglo, a very religious and traditional widow, is really upset about her daughter Eliane dating Mehdi, a Muslim boy from her technical school.
Rassco was intended to be the central instrument for middle-class settlement and housing in Palestine.
The Odessa Committee, officially known as the Society for the Support of Jewish Farmers and Artisans in Syria and Palestine, was a charitable, pre-Zionist organization in the Russian Empire, which supported immigration to the Biblical Land of Israel, then a part of the Ottoman Empire.
On 16 November 2011 SIS warned the national transitional council in Benghazi after discovering details of planned strikes, said foreign secretary William Hague.
Awards and nominations The Forgotten Refugees won the "Best Documentary Film" at the 2007 Marbella Film Festival.
Background Significant Zionist emigration from Morocco began in 1948 with the establishment of the State of Israel during the Palestine war.
In a subsequent interview, he criticized Israel for continuing to follow Zionism as a national ideology and called for the Law of Return to be reduced to a minimum.
Plans to provide immigrants with jobs requiring heavy physical labour, and with housing and plots of agricultural land in outlying areas, were generally unsuccessful, with many migrating back to camps near cities and towns on finding themselves ill-equipped or unprepared for the task.
He has been successful in lawsuits against the authorities in Lviv to preserve cemetery sites and destroyed synagogues from commercialization.
associated with the Democratic party." In December 2013, Burg confirmed the existence of Israel's nuclear weapons during a speech at a conference aimed at denuclearising the Middle East.
Preservation status The film was lost shortly after its creation until in 1997 the original negative was found in France in the vault of the Centre National de la Cinématographie (CNC) by archivist Éric Le Roy.
In 1882, members of Bilu and Hovevei Zion made what came to be known the First Aliyah to Palestine, then a part of the Ottoman Empire.
Summary The documentary explores the history, culture, and exodus of Middle Eastern and North African Jewish communities in the second half of the 20th century.
BACSJ was one of the largest and most active local grassroots organizations in the American Soviet Jewry movement.
Also discussed is the wave of immigration to Canada, specifically Montreal, with a segment on the distinct cultural reactions of the Moroccan Jews to a new life in the Canadian state.
We are indulging a request that we may neither understand nor agree with, but if it doesn't really put us out, if the flight isn't full, and there is in fact someone who will easily volunteer to switch seats, then what is everyone's colossal problem with the mere premise?
Since the beginning of the 20th century, groups of people (usually circles of young friends) moved to Palestine/Israel together.
Students who choose to make Aliyah are eligible for an absorption basket from the Ministry of Aliyah and Integration, though they will have received some of their rights as a Naale student.
Like the members of the First Aliyah (1881–1903) who came before them and established agricultural villages, most members of the Second Aliyah planned to become farmers, almost the sole career available in the agrarian economy of Ottoman Palestine.
The plot inspires itself from the tragic sinking of the Pisces (renamed Egoz), when 44 Moroccan Jews who were clandestinely emigrating to Israel lost their lives.
Types There are several organisational variants, of which the most common are: Moshav ovdim (Hebrew: מושב עובדים, lit.
History Founded as the Zionist Organization (Hebrew: הַהִסְתַּדְּרוּת הַצִּיּוֹנִית; HaHistadrut HaTsionit), or ZO, in 1897 at the First Zionist Congress, held from August 29 to August 31 in Basel, Switzerland.
Collective childrearing was also a way to escape the patriarchal society that the founders came from.
Its brand of nationalism clashed with the Romanian Communist Party and its satellite Jewish Democratic Committee, as well as with Ihud-type Labor Zionism.
I realized that I and other Prisoners of Zion had no right to a pension because we did not work [long enough] in this state.
The risk of stroke, heart failure, and heart attack modestly increased with the increase of weekly servings of fried food.
The cooking techniques can either be grouped into ones that use a single cooking method or a combination of wet and dry cooking methods.
Products with particulates heat up faster (compared to conventional heat processing) due to higher resistance.
The word խորոված means "grilled" or "roasted" and derives from the root խորով (khorov), which in turn comes from the Proto-Indo-European root qor, meaning "to burn".
Twitter also added a sausage-in-bread emoji to the '#ausvotes' hashtag on the day of the 2016 election; it was the most widely used emoji in relation to the election under that hashtag.
More so, it is very affordable and has been reported to retain most of the nutritional properties of food if dried using appropriate drying conditions.
Khorkhog is made by cooking pieces of meat inside a container which also contains hot stones and water, and is often also heated from the outside.
The usual way to serve kebakkos is to heat them and serve them with various sauces for dipping; the stick enables the kebakkos to be dipped and eaten by hand.
This could be done in an intensive process of maneuvering a pan, hung over a fire from the ceiling using ropes.
This technique is said to achieve the maximum extraction of flavour with little compromise to the flavour or texture of the ingredients used.
Deep frying usually takes place at temperatures between 177–205 °C (351–401 °F) so shallow-frying can oftentimes be considered a less intense cooking technique.
Dicing allows for distribution of flavour and texture throughout the dish, as well as a somewhat quicker cooking time.
Regional variations Méchoui is prepared, especially in Morocco, by digging a vertical hole, or by constructing an earthen oven, 0.8 to 1 meter in diameter and 1.5 to 2 meters deep.
Cooking In cooking, creaming is when food is prepared by slow simmering or poaching in milk or cream, such as creamed chipped beef on toast.
Beer or root beer is added to create a broth for simmering the meats which also acts as a non stick agent.
These popular items are known collectively as "baked goods," and are often sold at a bakery, which is a store that carries only baked goods, or at markets, grocery stores, farmers' markets or through other venues.
The retarding stage is often used in sourdough bread recipes to allow the bread to develop its characteristic flavor.
In empirical studies of lighting cones for Haitian charcoal stoves (which are placed over a grate rather than having an integrated grate), the ignition time and charcoal consumption were halved compared to lighting on a shallow bed grate, and carbon monoxide production was reduced by 40%.
In 2025 Meghan Markle used the technique to make a dish she called skillet spaghetti on an episode of her show With Love, Meghan; the technique again went viral.
Pellicle formation on meat and seafood Before cured foods are cold smoked, they can be allowed to air-dry to form a tacky outer layer, known as a pellicle.
For example, the Deg Hit'an and the Aleut used this cooking technique despite being above the 58-degrees latitude generalized threshold, which Harold E.
The tube may also be made of combustible material designed to resist burning long enough for the coals to ignite.
Most pans sold specifically as sauté pans have a wide flat base and low sides, to maximize the surface area available for heating.
Baking can also be used to prepare other foods such as pizzas, baked potatoes, baked apples, baked beans, some casseroles, and pasta dishes such as lasagne.
Fish such as tuna or horse mackerel are chopped and mixed with garnishes such as garlic, ginger, green onions or shiso leaves.
A sauté pan must be large enough to hold all of the food in one layer, so steam can escape, which keeps the ingredients from stewing and promotes the development of fond.
Temperature control Pellet grills use automated fuel and air delivery, and can maintain a user-selected temperature.
The fat-soluble vitamins and fatty acids in cooking oils show comparatively reasonable stability when they are used for shallow frying rather than deep frying.
Health concerns Concerns have been raised about particulates, sulfur dioxide and CO2 emissions from coal-fired pizza ovens.
The game was re-released as a PS one Classic on December 24, 2009, on the Japanese PlayStation Network.
Locked into the semi-solid fat, these air bubbles remain in the final batter, and expand as the item is baked, serving as a form of leavening agent.
The growing popularity of coal-fired pizza in the 2010s was identified as a major market for anthracite coal suppliers, most of whom are in Pennsylvania's Coal Region and generally see a declining market due to demand for alternate industrial and home heating fuel sources.
The terms charbroiling, broiling, grilling and char-grilling are often used interchangeably, though depending on the application and equipment involved there may be differences in how the food product is actually cooked.
This is aimed at the effect of preserving namerō, which is easily spoiled in the summer and cannot be stored in advance, and stimulating appetite decreased in the summer with acid.
The name comes from kebab, and the Finnish word kepakko, meaning "small stick." Kebakko represents fusion cuisine.
Dairy production In dairy production, creaming is the process of separating un-homogenized milk into cream and skimmed milk.
Charcoal types Disposable grills use either charcoal briquettes or all-natural lump charcoal as their fuel source.
A chimney is not needed because the length of the barrel acts as its own chimney and provides a draft.
The study concluded that fried food consumption may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and presents a linear dose-response relation.
The episode was filmed at the Brandywine Strawberry Festival in Brandywine, Pennsylvania, earlier in June that year.
Another indication is in the discovery of bones of animals from a very old time that do not show cutting and fleshing features but do show heat marks, which is consistent with cooking in pib.
History From the Neolithic period, ceramic steamers known as yan have been found at the Banpo site, dating to 5000 BC.
Since the coals are held together, radiation heats adjacent coals, and convection heats coals higher in the stack.
During that time, the company remained a small family-run business that distributed its pellet grills to a limited network of stores.
The latter is particularly important if using a horizontal spit and coals or an open fire, in which case the drippings cannot be salvaged for basting.
The method originated in Tosa Province, now part of Kōchi Prefecture, where it was applied to bonito (katsuo-no-tataki).
Commercial bakers often retard dough at approximately 10 °C (50 °F), while home bakers typically use refrigerators set at about 4 °C (40 °F) or below.
For a horizontal spit, it is also preferable to keep the roast further away from the heat source in the beginning, which minimizes infrared heating while preserving air convection heating.
Marzipan, made from almonds, with the addition of sugar and sometimes egg whites, is used as a center-fill in confections, or hardened to serve as a candy itself.
See also Food mill List of food preparation utensils Potato masher Potato ricer - also known as a 'ricer' - is a small, relatively inexpensive kitchen tool == References ==
Fish As opposed to dry salting, fish brining or wet-salting is performed by immersion of fish into brine, or just sprinkling it with salt without draining the moisture.
Pizzerias outside of the Northeastern United States that feature coal-fired ovens are uncommon enough to be noted in travel guides: for instance, Black Sheep Pizza with the first coal-fired oven in Minneapolis, or URBN in San Diego.
The nomadic populations, in addition to their main herd often composed of several thousand sheep, raise a small number of male lambs specifically for méchoui, feeding them with cheih, a species of wild mugwort which gives the lamb a distinctive character.
Aromatics including white or purple onions, bell peppers, Jalapeno or Serrano peppers, olives, and tomatoes are also used to add flavor and color to the dish.
Format Most commonly, the main sale item at a sausage sizzle is a pork or beef sausage (often colloquially referred to as a "snag"), cooked on a grill or barbecue and served on a single slice of white sandwich bread, or a hot dog roll in Western Australia.
Alternating current When current varies, as it does in AC circuits, P ( t ) = U ( t ) I ( t ) {\displaystyle P(t)=U(t)I(t)} where t is time and P is the instantaneous active power being converted from electrical energy to heat.
Pan-frying, sautéing, and stir-frying involve cooking foods in a thin layer of fat on a hot surface, such as a frying pan, griddle, wok, or sautee.
The meat is cut into small pieces, placed in a pot with oil, sprinkled with salt and pepper, and fried.
As illustrated by the temperature profiles of the average charbroiler, operators also tend to manage hot spots by inclining the grates as design allows and so placing the food further away from the elevated heat zone.
Following a severe downturn in business in the US, partly attributed to the fall in new housing on the back of the sub-prime mortgage crisis, Barbeques Galore USA filed for protection under Chapter 11 on 15 August 2008.
It is a promotional tie in to the Gyu-Kaku restaurant chain, where the player must serve customers barbecue products while maintaining the customers' patience.
See also Notes References External links Media related to Frying at Wikimedia Commons Best Easy Ways to Use Air Fryer for [1] How Does an Air Fryer Work [2]
It is a variation of boodog, an older Mongolian dish made with hot stones in which the meat is cooked inside an animal skin.
See also List of Middle Eastern dishes List of African dishes List of barbecue dishes List of lamb dishes List of spit-roasted foods Food portal == References ==
Mechanical turnspits ("roasting jacks") were later invented, first powered by dogs on treadmills, and then by steam power and mechanical clockwork mechanisms.
Cultural and religious significance Baking, especially of bread, holds special significance for many cultures.
This refers to a period of rest after the initial mixing of flour and water, a rest period that occurs sequentially before the addition of yeast, salt and other ingredients.
To start the grill, the user removes the outer packaging and lights the corner of the starter sheet.
Hawaii Teriyaki was brought to Hawaii by Japanese immigrants and evolved based on local ingredients and preferences.
Magocha is a local dish of the coastal area of the Izu Peninsula, where it is not seared but is served with dashi stock on the sashimi.
Retarding may occur at any time during fermentation and is accomplished by placing the dough into a dough retarder, refrigerator, or other cold environment to slow the activity of the yeast.
The food is covered with water and put in a covered ceramic jar and the jar is then steamed for several hours.
The meaning of the Chinese character for dun in Cantonese is different from that in Mandarin, because dun means to simmer or stew in Mandarin.
Dried fruits have been consumed historically due to their high sugar content and sweet taste, and a longer shelf-life from drying.
As of 2007, coal-fired ovens were quite uncommon in the Western United States with only five others west of the Mississippi: four in an Arizona chain and one more in Las Vegas.
The term "sausage sizzle" came into common use in the 1980s and is used primarily to refer to the barbecuing event, but also to the sausage itself, mostly in Western Australia.
Generally speaking, when a whole animal is being spit roasted, it is best rotated faster in the early part of the roasting, to help interior temperature rise without burning the exterior.
In late 2005, the firm was delisted from the Nasdaq after a leveraged buy-out by Australian venture capital firm, Ironbridge Capital.
In order to accommodate the dish in homes or backyards, this dish is often prepared in a large pot in much smaller quantities.
Hard panned products are distinguished from soft by the composition of their coating: these are made of solids dissolved into a solvent until saturated.
Dried fish most commonly cod or haddock, known as Harðfiskur, is a delicacy in Iceland, while dried reindeer meat is a traditional Sámi food.
With the fingers of the right hand, the host takes pieces of grilled meat and offers them to guests.
Charbroilers are energy intensive, and commonly use 15,000 to 30,000 BTU of gas per burner, per hour.
The base is made up of woven bamboo strips, and production can take anywhere from 15 minutes to several hours depending on its size.
Crinkle-cutting French fries makes them absorb more fry oil and increases their ability to retain dipping sauce.
Cans of soft drink or bottled water may also be available for purchase, especially to maximise fundraising.
This type of rice is eaten in the districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada of Karnataka state, in the state of Kerala, and in most parts of Tamil Nadu, Bihar, and West Bengal in India.
Meat and fish are typically brined for less than twenty-four hours while vegetables, cheeses and fruit are brined in a much longer process known as pickling.
The word is from the Old French parbouillir, 'to boil thoroughly' but by mistaken association with "part", it has acquired this definition.
The salt draws moisture from the interior of the meat to the surface, where it mixes with the salt and is then reabsorbed with the salt essentially brining the meat in its own juices.
Tour stop Big Fat Daddy's was named a 2015 York, Pennsylvania Factory Tour Stop by the York Convention and Visitor's Bureau.
However, bark baskets were preferred to bark containers because they did not burn as easily, which made them more durable.
ABC affiliates Schafer has made several TV appearances on ABC stations supporting local fairs of which he's been a long-time veteran.
Wet Wet-heat, immersion-based cooking methods are the predominant class of cooking techniques in Chinese cuisine and are usually referred to as zhǔ (煮).
They are used to flavour soups and sausages, in the preparation of salad dressings, and directly as spreads.
Yeast extracts Yeast extracts, usually as byproduct from brewing beer, are made into food pastes, usually dark-brown in colour.
Compared to participants with a low intake, those who ate the most fried food had a 37% increased risk of heart failure, a 28% increased risk of major cardiovascular events, and a 22% increased risk of coronary heart disease.
The dry ingredients are mixed or beaten with the softened fat until it becomes light and fluffy, increasing in volume due to the incorporation of tiny air bubbles.
Unlike traditional khorovats, which is cooked over an open fire, khazani khorovats is prepared in a pot (kazan).
Modern commercial models are usually sheet steel cylinders about 6–8 in (15–20 cm) in diameter and 8–12 in (20–30 cm) tall.
Therefore, the embedding of a discourse in an interdiscourse is an ideological interpretation of the discourse.
Also known as the Pareto–Zipf law, it is a power-law distribution on ranked data, named after the linguist George Kingsley Zipf, who suggested a simpler distribution called Zipf's law, and the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot, who subsequently generalized it.
Fragments of Homer and Hesiod represent the earliest Western treatments of poetic theory, followed later by the work of the lyricist Pindar.
Multimodality: Foundations, research and analysis – A problem-oriented introduction (with Janina Wildfeuer and Tuomo Hiippala; de Gruyter, 2017).
According to this theory, systems are a key organising feature of grammar, and each system originates "at a particular rank: clause, phrase, group and their associated complexes".
the graph of the number of species observed as a function of their abundance) is often found to conform to a Zipf–Mandelbrot law.
The Birth of the Clinic: An Archaeology of Medical Perception (French: Naissance de la clinique – Une archéologie du regard médical), a 1963 book by Michel Foucault, presents the development of la clinique (the teaching hospital) as a medical institution.
Core FEs are essential to the meaning of the frame while non-core FEs are generally descriptive (such as time, place, manner, etc.) For example: The only core FE of the Being_born frame is called Child; non-core FEs Time, Place, Means, etc.
it does not rely on any particular model of language or cognition), and can therefore be used alongside a range of different models of cognition and grammar.
This is contrary to the a priori grammar postulate, the idea that grammar rules exist in the mind before the production of utterances.
The authors found that participants from the three professions emphasised different areas of spatial cognition.
A unique feature of the thematic equative is its conveying of a meaning of exclusiveness in the rheme.
Michael Lewis, in his book The New New Thing, published in 1999, noted that "When a computer programmer answers a question, he often begins with the word 'so.'" Microsoft employees have long argued that the "so" boom began with them.
Since frames are essentially semantic descriptions, they are similar across languages, and several projects have arisen over the years that have relied on the original FrameNet as the basis for additional non-English FrameNets, for Spanish, Japanese, German, and Polish, among others.
Examples of semantic arguments Bribery is about giving somebody something of significant value to make him do something we want.
Examples of dangling "so": "Yeah, it's pretty exciting, though we're not really sure whether it will work out, so..." Speaker 1: "How was your date?" Speaker 2: "Well, he didn't show up, so..." Intensifying adverb "So" may close a sentence as an intensifying adverb, such as in "I love her so".
But if the term 'knowledge' is used when skeptical hypotheses are being discussed, we count as "knowing" very little, if anything.
The term poetics derives from the Ancient Greek ποιητικός poietikos "pertaining to poetry"; also "creative" and "productive".
Corpus-assisted discourse studies (abbr.: CADS) is related historically and methodologically to the discipline of corpus linguistics.
In systemic functional grammar, a thematic equative is a thematic resource in which two or more separate elements in a clause are grouped together to form a single constituent of the theme-plus-rheme structure.
The Poetics itemized the salient genres of ancient Greek drama into three categories (comedy, tragedy, and the satyr play) while drawing a larger-scale distinction between drama, lyric poetry, and the epic.
An 18th-century doctor would examine a diseased organ as would a 19th-century doctor, yet, because of their different medical cultures, these doctors would reach different conclusions about the cause and treatment of the disease.
Subframe: Some frames refer to complex scenarios that consist of several individual states or events that can be described by separate frames.
It aims to take seriously two ideas: first, that media texts involve 'the construction of stories by other means'; and second, that in an age marked by digital connectivity, media texts are inherently interactive phenomena.
Semantic structure analysis (or SSA) is a methodology for systematic description of the intended meaning of natural language, developed by the Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Life and career Schegloff was born in a Jewish household in Brooklyn, New York and raised in Boston.
Since interdiscourse privileges certain interpretations, it has a close affinity to the concepts of ideology, hegemony and power (sociology).
The coding procedures should be laid out in such a way that a layman could follow them, which allows for reliability checking using an independent coder, as well as replication of the findings by other researchers.
A word sketch database is a set of such triples or quintuples, which may be generated either by querying a corpus using corpus query language or by parsing the corpus using a natural language parser.
Sapir says that a fundamental principle of statement analysis is that "denying guilt is not the same as denying the act.
The "criteria-based content analysis" (CBCA) is a core component of the SVA and is a tool used to distinguish true statements from false statements as CBCA scores are expected to be higher for truth tellers than liars.
Some dictionaries indicate words that are pejoratives, but do not include all the contexts in which words might be acceptable or offensive to different social groups.
Arguments to definition and from definition can be used together (Douglas Walton called the latter Arguments from Definition to Verbal Classification").
For DP, SSK and MCA, however, there can be no socially meaningful sense of the non-linguistic without the founding, constitutive force of language.
L2 (English) Corpora Cambridge Learner Corpus Corpus of Academic Written and Spoken English (CAWSE), a collection of Chinese students’ English language samples in academic settings.
The term was coined by Thora Tenbrink to describe a kind of discourse analysis that had been carried out by researchers in linguistics and other fields.
A comprehensive bibliography of discourse-oriented corpus studies is compiled at Edge Hill University.
"Nacionalistički krugovi usađuju krivo uvjerenje da svaka nacija mora imati zaseban jezik: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [Nationalistic circles spread the prejudice that every nation must have a different language: Interview with Snježana Kordić] (in Serbo-Croatian).
Since their main function is at the level of discourse (sequences of utterances) rather than at the level of utterances or sentences, discourse markers are relatively syntax-independent and usually do not change the truth conditional meaning of the sentence.
Matthiessen completed his undergraduate degree at Lund University in 1980, where he studied English, Arabic, and philosophy.
Chilton developed a three-dimensional model to analyze semantic structure in natural languages, based on spatial cognition and using a formalism derived from vector geometry.
It denotes at least three levels: In Courtine interdiscursivity means that a discourse has a relation to another discourse.
Carrying a bullet in his breast pocket; he claimed someone once threw a Bible at him and the bullet saved his life.
History of development Sketch Engine is a product of Lexical Computing, a company founded in 2003 by the lexicographer and research scientist Adam Kilgarriff.
Such research is often labelled as corpus-based or corpus-assisted discourse analysis, with the term CADS coined by a research group in Italy (Partington 2004) for a specific type of corpus-assisted discourse analysis (see the section 'in different countries' below).
Contextualization cues As previously mentioned, contextualization cues are crucial in that they are the clues that allow observers to better understand the interaction being presented.
Countries such as The Netherlands, Germany and Sweden use these techniques as scientific evidence in court.
(2000) Construing experience through meaning: a language-based approach to cognition, Open linguistics series, Continuum International.
John Arnold Bateman (born 1957) is a British linguist and semiotician known for his research on natural language generation and multimodality.
Global WordNet Association The Global WordNet Association (GWA) is a public and non-commercial organization that provides a platform for discussing, sharing and connecting wordnets for all languages in the world.
During this period he worked on multilanguage generation, speech generation, English grammar, semantics and discourse, and systemic functional theory.
(2014) 'An introduction to language aggression against women', Journal of Language Aggression and Conflict, 2(2): 177-182.
Berger and Thomas Luckmann who in the 1960s studied the processes involved in the social construction of generally accessible everyday knowledge in their defining work, The Social Construction of Reality.
"Ćirilica u Vukovaru nije znak dvojezičnosti: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [In Vukovar, Cyrillic is not a sign of bilingualism: Interview with Snježana Kordić] (in Serbo-Croatian).
A corpus manager usually represents a complex tool that allows one to perform searches for language forms or sequences.
Classical thinkers, and thinkers of previous epistems, could talk about the mind and the body, about the human being, and about his very limited place in the universe; they could talk about all the limits of knowledge and his freedom.
By 2023, more than 3 billion characters of news media texts have been filtered, of which 700 million characters have been processed and analyzed and have yielded an expanding Pan-Chinese dictionary of 2.5 million words from the Pan-Chinese printed media.
In linguistics and in particular in natural language understanding, a dialog act can be interpreted as the atomic units of a conversation, more fine-grained than utterances, characterized by a specific communicative function.
Sequence: now, then Causality: because Coordination: and, or non-coordination: but Structural markers indicate the hierarchy of conversational actions at the time in which they are spoken.
Text corpora are used by both AI developers to train large language models and corpus linguists and within other branches of linguistics for statistical analysis, hypothesis testing, finding patterns of language use, investigating language change and variation, and teaching language proficiency.
The issue is no longer whether mediated texts transmit in/accurate in-formation, but how they act as "vehicles for action", where such actions might include defending someone, accusing someone, confessing to something, or any number of other things.
Address and the semiotics of social relations: A systemic-functional account of address forms and practices in Australian English.
A word sketch is a one-page, automatic, corpus-derived summary of a word’s grammatical and collocational behaviour.
The word quizzaciously was cited by Vsauce host Michael Stevens in 2015 as an example of a hapax legomenon, with Google only returning one search result for the word at the time despite being included in the Oxford English Dictionary.
Aristotle Aristotle distinguished between five virtues of thought: technê, epistêmê, phronêsis, sophia, and nous, with techne translating as "craft" or "art" and episteme as "knowledge".
This is in contrast with "The guests need an omelette for breakfast," which leaves open the possibility that they also need other things for breakfast.
He has worked at Kyoto University, the USC Information Sciences Institute, the German National Research Center for Information Technology, Saarland University, and the University of Stirling.
Ambiguity arises in cases such as with the word flies, and whether it should be classified as a noun or a verb.
In linguistics, spoken corpora are used to do research into phonetic, conversation analysis, dialectology and other fields.
Full typology of semantic arguments includes classification of persuasive definitions (the notion coined by Charles Stevenson) developed by Tadeusz Pawlowski.
CLAWS8 tagset CLAWS8 tagset was extended from C7 tagset with further distinctions in the determiner and pronoun categories, as well as 37 new auxiliary tags for forms of be, do, and have.
"Grammar, language and the social: Poststructuralism and systemic-functional linguistics." Social Semiotics 3.1.
It stands for the context in which a text, or object, has been created, and its function and purpose at that time.
Catherine "Cate" McKean Poynton (1942 – 2021) was an Australian linguist known for her contributions to systemic functional linguistics.
Whereas the joke normally is narrated as a vulgar series of actions followed by the clean punch line, Liebman narrates a very aristocratic series of actions followed by a very vulgar punch line.
And once you reject—as these approaches reject—the possibility of some non-linguistic arbiter of accuracy, it follows that all descriptions (whether those we decide to treat as accurate or those we do not) have to be understood as the products of particular, locally specific contexts.
A full account of epistêmê is given in Posterior Analytics, where Aristotle argues that knowledge of necessary, rather than contingent, truths regarding causation is foundational for episteme.
The word derives from the root זכה z-ch-h, meaning clear/transparent and refers to glass or crystal.
Ulrike Hanna Meinhof is an Emeritus Professor in the Department of Modern Languages at the University of Southampton in Hampshire.
Manatee Manatee is a database management system specifically devised for effective indexing of large text corpora.
Applications The distribution of words ranked by their frequency in a random text corpus is approximated by a power-law distribution, known as Zipf's law.
Therefore, people using WordNet must apply their own methods to identify offensive or pejorative words.
As a comedic device, this was a favorite of Woody Allen; for a time, he used so many switcheroos that friends referred to him as "Allen Woody." Some of Allen's switcheroo gags include: Carrying a sword on the street; in case of an attack it turned into a cane, so people would feel sorry for him.
The interviewer, an African-American graduate student in educational psychology, has been sent to interview a woman at her home in a low-income neighborhood.
Thanks first of all to Giovanni Boccaccio's Genealogia Deorum Gentilium (1360), the literate elite gained a rich understanding of metaphorical and figurative tropes.
The contents are thus deliberately repetitive in most cases, represented by textual samples drawn from editorials, local and international news, cross-Taiwan Strait news, as well as news on finance, sports and entertainment.
Key publications Books Text generation and systemic-functional linguistics: experiences from English and Japanese (with Christian M.
The epistemic change Foucault's thesis about the birth of the clinic (teaching hospital) contradicts the histories of medicine that present the late 18th century as the beginning of a new empirical system "based on the rediscovery of the absolute values of the visible" material reality.
Finally, whether a person uses formal or informal language, allows the relationship between the two speakers to be clear.
Some of this work aims to elucidate specific features of discourse types (news, social media, television series, etc.), while other work is rooted in the tradition of corpus-based critical discourse analysis.
He finished a PhD in 1967 and moved to Columbia University, where he was an assistant professor of sociology at the Teacher's College.
A dialog system typically includes a taxonomy of dialog types or tags that classify the different functions dialog acts can play.
"The privileging of representation and the marginalising of the interpersonal: a metaphor (and more) for contemporary gender relations." Feminine, Masculine and Representation.
Retrieval time required to access conceptual knowledge seemed to be directly related to the number of hierarchies the speaker needed to "traverse" to access the knowledge.
Developed in the early 1980s, CLAWS was built to fill the ever-growing gap created by always-changing POS necessities.
Consequently, the definition of the levels depends on the definition of discursive formation and types of discourse, and the three levels may collapse to the extent that these concepts are not conceived.
Details of how frame elements can be realized in a sentence are important because this reveals important information about the subcategorization frames as well as possible diathesis alternations (e.g.
Results from the extensive and accumulative data analysis contained in LIVAC have enabled the cultivation of textual databases of proper names, place names, organization names, new words, and bi-weekly and annual rosters of media figures.
In 2002 he took up a chair at Macquarie until 2008, when he was appointed chair and head of the Department of English at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
That said, some implementations of translation memory, such as Translation Memory eXchange (TMX), a standard XML format for exchanging translation memories between computer-assisted translation (CAT) programs, allow preserving the original order of sentences.
Jonah Jameson quit the Bugle upon Wilson Fisk taking it over and interfering with their investigations concerning the attack.
He left the caucus on September 21, 2017, to sit as an Independent due to his dissatisfaction with the party's leadership contest and the emphasis put by candidates on spending cuts and austerity.
After some difficulty adjusting to her new role as an Army wife, she meets "The Tribe" — the circle of Army wives (and husband) which include Denise Sherwood, Claudia Joy Holden, Pamela Moran and Roland Burton — and becomes close to them.
After leaving the acting industry, Falzon became a paramedic for St John Ambulance in Alice Springs.
In April 2016, Magrann became the head baseball coach at Coral Springs Charter School in Coral Springs, Florida.
His coach, Marcus Marinelli, recalled that despite training for only a few months, he was already defeating boxers with significantly more experience.
According to hospital officials, within weeks after the incident, they had implemented new rules meant to allow patient care staff to focus on their work and minimize disputes in patient care units.
On Jan's feisty nature, Botcher opined, "Jan's got a very big heart and a lot of compassion, but she can go up like a rocket!" Jan's powerful personality comes as a shock to her new colleagues.
Molyneux appeared alongside Meg Fraser and they play younger versions of the film's two main characters.
Dan Schoen (born December 7, 1974) is an American politician and former member of the Minnesota Senate.
After Katie Sieben announced she would not seek re-election to the Minnesota Senate, Schoen announced his intentions to run.
Sam stood by his brother Nat (Joe Naufahu) when he got involved in racial gang wars that saw his best friend get murdered.
Magrann made his Major League debut on September 7, 1989 at Cleveland Stadium against the Toronto Blue Jays.
After saying his goodbyes to Charlie, Josh left the series at the end of 2006 and set off on his travels to see cricket and culture around the world.
Early life, education and private career Sheehy was born in Hastings, Nebraska and graduated from St.
Newberger was reprimanded by a judge for writing to encourage reconsideration of a judgment (worth roughly $250,000) against a donor to Newberger.
Career After appearing in the children's television series Kelly II, Falzon was asked to audition for both Neighbours and Home and Away.
Due to such high audience reaction, the paternity was unraveled in 1999, setting off a cliffhanger that saw the two possibly reconcile in the new millennium.
John's University in Collegeville and Minneapolis Community and Technical College, where he graduated from the Paramedic program.
Character development Relationship with Donna Stephanie Tauevihi was cast as Donna Heka, a love interest for Rangi and debuted in 1997.
In 1987, he became the market general manager, a position he held until his appointment as lieutenant governor.
He received highly specialized training as a member of the elite National Medical Response Team, a unit of the US Public Health Service, trained to treat victims of industrial, nuclear or chemical accidents, or terrorist acts involving Weapons of Mass Destruction.
Harper praised Leon's portrayl of the character and said that Jade would face a challenge learning and working in the ED.
Enda Appears in the novel: Halloween (1979) by Curtis Richards Enda is a cursed ghost that is behind Michael Myers affliction.
Digital Spy's Amy West thought the couple's relationship might be "short-lived, though" when they attend the scene of a van on the edge of a ravine.
Sam got a job at the hospital as a paramedic and briefly dated Emma Franklin (Amy Usherwood) before he fell in love with Vasa Levi (Teuila Blakely).
In 2016, former premier Rachel Notley named him one of the heroes of the Fort McMurray wildfires for his efforts in helping evacuees.
Personal life Miocic works as a full-time firefighter and paramedic, becoming full-time in 2022 after many years of part-time work, in Oakwood and Valley View, Ohio.
Along with their father, the brothers set up and manage Earth Sanctuary, an ecology, culture and astronomy tourism business.
At the end of it all, Peter and Ben shake hands with Jameson saying they will face all dangers and the future together.
Fourteen million viewers watched Jude's stabbing and Burns thought it made "a harrowing end" to the character's tenure.
She was later released after spending 20 minutes in the police car in handcuffs without any charges being brought against her.
When Abyei Town was attacked and destroyed by SAF forces on May 14, 2008, the evacuation plan was implemented.
In series 28, Jeff is left stunned when past and former paramedic Tamzin Bayle (Gemma Atkinson) returns.
Emery at Ballotpedia Meet the Candidates: Eric Emery – South Dakota Public Broadcasting (August 2024 interview) AMA Ethics Talk podcast: Time-Critical Resource—Rural Emergency Medical Services (guest appearance)
She is a fierce advocate for the Air Force and she and Holden jockey for their respective branches at the highest levels of power on base.
She has difficulty dealing with Chase's commitments to Delta Force and the secrecy of his deployments because she never knows when he was going to be called away on a mission.
He joins the emergency department as a resident doctor on rotation and is introduced alongside Kim Chang (Jasmine Bayes), who he went to university with.
He's been taught to dust himself off and get on with things." During his shift, Iain helps Ruby with "a particularly difficult situation" and despite knowing that he has people who care for him, it does not deter Iain from his plan.
Theme song and opening sequence The theme song for Passions is titled "Breathe"; it was performed by Jane French and written by French and John Henry Kreitler.
In July 2022, Hofbauer was hospitalized at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles Thursday to undergo tests for an auto-immune disorder, after spending two days at Antelope Valley Hospital.
The future Peter Parker tells him that he should tell Mary Jane Watson and their son that he loves them every day.
Electoral record References External links Members of the Nova Scotia Legislative Assembly Dave Wilson's NSNDP profile
Following this, Ben expresses how proud he is of the "prime" Spider-Man despite not living in the same reality as him.
On September 13, 2017, Jackie Biskupski, the mayor of Salt Lake City, said that the internal investigation revealed Payne and his watch commander, Lt.
He said he wanted to "disconnect and clear my head" because he felt he had faced "abuse and slander in social and mainstream media" over a private member's bill he wrote.
After the groundskeeper expressed how shocked he was fifteen years ago when Michael Myers murdered Judith, he began telling Dr.
Such certifications provide designations to paramedic professionals who demonstrate the knowledge and skills essential to critical care paramedics.
It was announced following his release that Kupershtein had been serving in the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) at the time of his abduction as a combat soldier in the Nahal Brigade's 932nd Battalion.
An alternate ending saw Ali and Chris survive and contact the authorities only for Jason's body to be missing when they arrive.
He was a peace officer leader of the SWAT division, with expertise in special operations and emergency preparedness, including weapons of mass destruction.
He served three terms from 2013 to 2019 and served on the Jobs and Energy (Vice Chair), Environment and Natural Resources, Civil Law, Transportation Policy, and Public Safety Committees.
Joan and Roland have a daughter Sara Elizabeth, whose godparents are Michael and Claudia Joy Holden, and a son David.
He trialled with Everton in May 2002, and played in a friendly against Falkirk in the Alex Scott Memorial Trophy, keeping a clean sheet.
Playing the role of Iain Dean has been a pure pleasure over the past six years, and I have nothing but fine and fond memories.
The board is composed of eleven Nova Scotians from across the arts sector and is part of the province's five-point plan on arts and culture released in February 2011.
I'm never quite sure whether this is a laughing at or a laughing with kind of show; either way, I'm still laughing." Cast Main Noted guest stars In a nod to Bewitched, Bernard Fox appeared as that series' "Dr.
But to see him feature so prominently in the autumn trailer makes us wonder, is he returning more permanently?" Bleasdale reprised the role again in 2024 for Charlie's exit storyline.
The character was written off following Blakely's decision to leave the show, and Vasa and Sam both departed on 11 July 2014.
Fraser initially joined the rest of the PC caucus in its merger with the Wildrose Party to form the United Conservative Party in 2017.
He also received his Diploma as an Emergency Medical Technician at the School of Allied Health - School of Emergency Health Services at the VG Hospital, Halifax.
Jimmy and Nurse Jill search the empty building for Laurie and their missing colleagues, with Jimmy eventually finding Mrs.
After Brian Jean was elected as the official leader of the Wildrose Party, Yao decided to run in the riding of Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo, and defeated Progressive Conservative incumbent MLA Mike Allen in the 2015 Alberta election.
Andrei Arlovski, Fabricio Werdum, Junior dos Santos, Francis Ngannou and Daniel Cormier (x2) UFC Honors Awards 2019: Fan's Choice Comeback of the Year Winner vs.
Richard Glenn Fraser (born February 13, 1972) is a Canadian politician who was an elected member to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta representing the electoral district of Calgary-South East.
Steve Frisbie is an American businessman and politician serving as a member of the Michigan House of Representatives since January 2025, representing the 44th district.
The FP-C, CCP-C, and/or Critical Care Emergency Medical Transport Program (CCEMTP) certifications are often a requirement to work as a flight paramedic in the United States.
Rita soon learns from the police that her tyres were actually slashed as practical joke, but she keeps the news to herself.
The band Scissor Sisters appeared on two February 2007 episodes and performed two songs from their Ta-Dah album: "Land of a Thousand Words" on February 8 and "I Don't Feel Like Dancin'" on February 9.
Frisbie was Calhoun County Commissioner having first taken the seat in 2011, elected from the 4th district.
Bleasdale also reprised the role for Charlie's final episode in 2024 Creation and casting The character was based on real life paramedic Clive Haddrell, who advised the script writers on the accuracy of the paramedics featured in the show.
But, how I used to look at it is that it's largely a palagi show that happens to have diverse actors in it, largely ...
Elected as a Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta MLA in 2012, Fraser was sworn into the Redford cabinet in 2013 as Minister of Public Safety.
He assisted when an emergency helicopter crashed outside the Emergency Department, and teamed up with both Charlie and Duffy keep the situation under control and to save lives.
References External links Full Biography for Steven "Steve" Hofbauer Steve Hofbauer at ballotpedia.org stevehofbauer.net Steven D.
When Donna was accused of murder, Rangi helped her through it and the two reconciled and married on the show's 2000th episode.
The film ends with the implication that Pam is killed by Tommy Jarvis, but her fate is never revealed in the series.
Stevenson said that although Iain is stunned to learn about Jan's involvement, he is prepared to "stand by her side".
Judy Seeberger is an American politician representing District 41 in the Minnesota Senate since 2023.
The character was used to explore the issue of motor neuron disease (MND) after he receives a diagnosis.
Yao was reached by Fort McMurray Today on January 5, 2021, and said he turned his phone off upon arrival in Mexico.
While the villains in the first games had detailed backstories, the Cobra Unit members were intended to have little information known about them, resulting in a significant impact among players upon their deaths.
Accounts of the incident vary, but Carmona says he spotted a driver assaulting another driver after a car accident and pulled over to help.
Salt knew she did not want to be on the show long-term as her family is based in London and in the opening episode of series 33, Sam was killed off after receiving an injury during work.
The Associated Press projected Frisbie as the winner on Election Night (when he was up by some 1,400 votes), but the Calhoun County clerk subsequently found that a computer glitch in Battle Creek overrode 2,800 ballots, causing them not to be counted.
She cited to that effect the specific hospital policy, on which the police department had agreed, that would not permit her to provide the blood sample.
Molyneux's first short film role was playing Jack Barnes in Aussie of the Year, which explores the life of a college graduate struggling to forge a career.
Josh Griffiths is a fictional character played by actor Ian Bleasdale from the BBC medical drama Casualty.
The character departed in mid-2004 before returning in a two episode stint on Christmas the same year.
Marguerite Thérèse Jauzelon (25 July 1917 – 10 February 2023) was a French teacher and volunteer paramedic during World War II.
Creation and casting After watching Australian soap operas, Neighbours and Home and Away, Caterina De Nave noticed a lack of ethnic diversity in the cast and as such, one of her goals whilst creating Shortland Street was to push new ground and create an ethically diverse cast.
Minnesota House of Representatives Newberger was elected to the Minnesota House of Representatives in 2012.
She told Emma Burns of the Daily Mirror that she was growing tired of the routine in her twelve-hour day filming for the show.
On July 5, 2018, Porter was appointed to the Executive Council of Nova Scotia as Minister of Municipal Affairs.
She is the first woman from the Central African Republic to be awarded the Florence Nightingale Medal.
Post-release activities On October 15, 2025, Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz met with Kupershtein to hear about his captivity and thank him for his actions assisting victims at the Nova festival attack.
The video depicted Kupershtein bound at his wrists and ankles, with a cord wrapped around his neck, he was recorded shouting his name at the militants and attempting to plead with them to help the wounded Israeli hostage Elkana Bohbot.
Later that day, Governor Dave Heineman held a press conference at the state capitol building to announce that he had accepted Sheehy's resignation.
Having broken up with Eddie, Donna looked forward to a future with Rangi but he had moved on and Donna rebounded with Paul Exley (Rory Williamson).
He represented the electoral district of Hants West in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly as a Liberal from 2006 until his retirement from politics in 2021.
Sometime later, now viewed as a hero at school, a newly confident Finney sits next to his crush in class and says she can call him Finn.
Andy then reminds Benoit of the non-exclusive patent waiver, which had been Benoit's idea in the first place.
Accolades References External links Official website Dumb Money at IMDb Dumb Money at Rotten Tomatoes Dumb Money at History vs Hollywood
It stars Haruka Ayase and Daigo Yamamoto as a couple who welcomes an infant humanoid robot (Kuwaki Rimu), following the passing of their son.
Eubank plays with our minds, and Nic's, for a while." Rapold judges that "the story evolves into a kind of poor man's X-Men", though "the grandiosity of the film's setups partly fits in with the guys' sense of righteous-geek drama, and you wouldn't be surprised to see Mr.
KK corners Makaio and has him create a diversion in order to distract Vincent, before killing him for his betrayal.
Music The score for the film was composed by Patrick Doyle, performed by the Hollywood Studio Symphony and conducted by James Shearman.
Plot When an undercover detective is shot dead while investigating a string of Porsche 911 thefts, Lieutenant Vincent Bracey assigns 22-year-old San Diego officer Benjamin "Benjy" Taylor to infiltrate a Porsche garage suspected to be a front for the grand theft auto scheme.
Distribution Marketing On March 18, 2014, a teaser poster and some photos from the film were released, followed by the first official trailer next day.
Awards Remakes At the end of January 2021 it was announced that the film will have 2 remakes made in France by StudioCanal and Spain by YouthPlanet Films.
Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune gave the film 1.5 stars out of 4 and called it a "routine shocker" that "is notable only for indicating the kind of junk roles that talented actresses are forced to play in the movies".
from Rediff.com gave the film 1.5 stars out of 5, praising Irrfan Khan's performance, while criticizing the climax and the overall execution.
Entertainment Weekly gave the film a "B" rating, saying, "Hard science fiction meets tender hearts in a slow-burn, twist-filled thriller...
Critical response The Conversation has a 94% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 139 reviews, with an average rating of 9/10.
The film will have its world premiere at the main competition of the 2026 Cannes Film Festival in May 2026, where it was nominated for the Palme d'Or.
Desperate not to lose his home and after finding out that his wife is pregnant, he decides to become a YouTuber, for which he will need the help of his two misunderstood children.
Release Tow had its world premiere at the 2025 Tribeca Festival on June 7 at the Spotlight Narrative section.
Cast See also List of Doraemon films References External links Doraemon The Movie 25th page (in Japanese) Doraemon: Nobita's Three Visionary Swordsmen at IMDb Doraemon: Nobita's Three Visionary Swordsmen (film) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Clark felt that college and high school students had not been depicted with "any sense of reality" in American film, and that he intended to capture the "astuteness" of young adults: "College students — even in 1974 — are astute people.
Cast Cliff Potts as Joe Dolan Walter Pidgeon as Thomas Carmichael Donna Mills as Caroline Carmichael Mike Farrell as James Carmichael Geraldine Page as Mrs.
Plot A young woman is the first person to be revived from cryogenic suspension, but someone wants to ensure that her resurrection is brief.
Variety called the film "a bloody, senseless kill-for-kicks feature, [that] exploits unnecessary violence in a university sorority house operated by an implausibly alcoholic ex-hoofer.
Taran Adarsh from Bollywood Hungama gave the film 2.5 stars out of 5, similarly pointing out that "what follows after a point bears no resemblance to that film (Phone Booth)", and also found it similar to A Wednesday in spite of their different storylines.
Critical response On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 29% of 76 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 4.4/10.
Reaching an alternate extraction point at an abandoned plaza, the group barely manages to escape, but many troops sent to cover the landing zone, including Bogdan, are killed.
He tries escaping the hospital, but is confronted by an apparition of Courtney in a stairwell before being killed by the entity.
Hackman's character Edward Lyle in Enemy of the State closely resembles Caul: he dons the same translucent raincoat, and his workshop is nearly identical to Caul's.
Aseem Mishra, who worked in Bajrangi Bhaijaan (2015), was initially chosen as the film's cinematographer, but due to his inavailability, was replaced by P.
The film is produced by Shane Boris, Diane Becker, and filmmaking duo Daniel Kwan and Jonathan Wang.
Legacy Quentin Tarantino credited the novelization of the film by screenwriter Thomas Rickman as getting him interested in writing.
In another email, the Subject writes that the other units are harming the friends to whom he recommended the Praemus service.
[sic] wouldn't have been possible soon after the interview, since Jobs sold NeXT to Apple six months later and became Apple CEO a year after that." Roger Ebert gave it three stars and noted that "it's raw material for a film, in the form of Jobs speaking in close-up.
Bounty hunter Dash MacKenzie is looking for a man who bought a SIM, and uncovers a game played by corporation heads to manipulate society.
Virtual Weapon (Italian: Potenza virtuale, also known as Cyberflic) is a 1997 Italian comedy-science fiction film, directed by Antonio Margheriti.
No Man's Land is a 1987 American crime drama film directed by Peter Werner, written by Dick Wolf, and starring Charlie Sheen, D.
Avatar (Chinese: 流放化身) is a 2004 English-language Singaporean science fiction action film directed by Kuo Jian Hong and written by Christopher Hatton.
The following month, Shailene Woodley, Anthony Ramos, Vincent D'Onofrio, Dane DeHaan, Myha'la Herrold, America Ferrera, Rushi Kota, Nick Offerman, and Talia Ryder joined the cast.
Vincent explains to Kalpana that KK is connected to the recent murder of a wealthy industrialist and warns her to step aside.
Plot Login is a Hindi feature film about three different individuals and how the Internet and social networking sites changed their lives.
talks the Dancekings into a bank robbery (SOS has just expanded into the banking business) that does not work out quite as planned.
Bear's interrogation reveals the dealer as Vikram Chandra, head of Beta Tower and an associate of Othman.
The stakes rise when an attempt by Kogan to kill Lucas results in the deaths of another moonshine driver, Jed Moultrie, and Treasury Agent Mike Williams mistaken for him and one of Barrett's men.
Allison then lures Protector 1 inside, where it gets stuck, unable to get traction on the spilled paint and thinners.
Music The musical score for Pulse was composed by Jay Ferguson, who also composed "Pictures of You" from the soundtrack to The Terminator, and the film score to A Nightmare on Elm Street 5: The Dream Child.
Agents Bobby and Fit arrive to save Othman who is ejected as Fit lands the plane with an Override Mode similar to I.R.I.S.'s.
Casting Olivia Hussey, who had previously garnered international fame for her role as Juliet in Romeo and Juliet (1968), signed on to appear in the film after being told by a psychic that she would "make a film in Canada that would earn a great deal of money".
And I said to John when it was about to open, 'Why did you cast them?' And he said, 'That was what the studio insisted on'.
Dhruva then manipulates Siddharth into killing his henchman Abbas, gathers proof, and confronts the corrupt CM.
The Subject then responds again saying that he tried to remove the unit, but he got badly burned when he touched the glowing Praemus logo.
It stars Mason Thames as Finney, a teenage boy abducted by a serial child killer known colloquially as the Grabber (Ethan Hawke).
When Jobs gave this interview in 1995, he was still "two years away from retaking the Chief Executive role at Apple and beginning a run that would transform the Cupertino, Calif.-based Mac maker from loser to leader in the digital economy.
On the other hand, the media differed over the handling of ideas, often singling out the film's supernatural elements for further scrutiny, with one review from Variety claiming its emphasis undermined tension-building in the story.
The robots are not autonomous or intelligent, and controlled either by radio or by sound, for which purpose Ripple uses a saxophone.
The song "Pareshanura" was shot at the Krabi Islands in Thailand, which featured Ram Charan and Rakul Preet Singh.
As Paul thinks Edmée is his mother, Hubert must play the role of a man courting Edmée and Didier, the son of Edmée and Hubert plays the role of a student living with the family.
Less cynical than before, Adam makes a determined effort to show Jessie that not all journalists are out for the cheap sensation.
Designing and building the Biollante props proved problematic, as traditional suitmation techniques made realizing the requested design of the creature's first form difficult, and the resulting cumbersome model for Biollante's final form was met with disbelief from the special effects team.
The idea originated from a public story-writing contest, and set a trend common to all Heisei era movies, in which Godzilla faces off against opponents capable of metamorphosing into new, progressively more powerful forms.
Romero's Dawn of the Dead (1978)—also set in a shopping mall—which he classifies as an "anti-capitalist parable for the Jimmy Carter years," suggesting that Chopping Mall functions in a similar way as a comment on consumption during the Reagan Era.
Background The original interview that Jobs gave to Cringely for Triumph of the Nerds lasted about 70 minutes.
Creature designer Shinji Nishikawa originally designed Biollante's head as much more flowerlike, with four petal-like jaws, though the film's producers insisted on a more reptilian head.
One was destroyed in the fire scene, one was taken to a museum, and the third was used as the camera car, with the roof removed.
The stunt coordinator was Carey Loftin, with a stunt team of Hollywood's most accomplished stunt drivers, Ray Austin, Neil Castes Sr., Robert Hoy, and Dale Van Sickel.
Reception Critical response On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 89% of 9 critics' reviews are positive.
First under control, the situation gradually deteriorates especially when Paul's actions become a threat to Hubert's plan to marry his son to the daughter of Crepin-Jaujard, one of his business partners.
Picker, the head of Paramount Pictures at the time, was impressed by the film and intended to position it as a wide release, but changes in studio management curtailed this and it was only released theatrically in Texas and Oklahoma, while it went straight to video elsewhere.
O'Neill Vera Miles as Marcia Carmichael Reception References External links Live Again, Die Again at IMDb Live Again, Die Again at the TCM Movie Database (archived version)
Sheep in the Box (Japanese: 箱の中の羊) is an upcoming Japanese science fiction drama film written, edited and directed by Hirokazu Kore-eda.
Dialing for Dingbats is a 1989 romantic comedy directed by Peter Slodczyk and distributed by Troma Entertainment.
Plot Randy, a lonely and shy man, meets a woman through a party line but communication problems complicate their date.
Finally the workers gain control over the robots with their own remote control device, which they had covertly assembled before, making necessary measurements on the robot assembling factory and researching the Ripple's prototype robot "Micron", whom he left damaged at his home.
Kaiser also says that he served as a technical consultant on the film, though he was not listed in the credits.
The project is produced by Cocktail Pictures, and stars Himanshu Bhatt, Radhika Roy, Akkash Basnet, Rashmi Gautam, Nandini Rai, Siddarth Chopra, KK Binojee.
Franchise 1987 video game A 1987 video game based on the 1986 film of the same name was published and developed by Ocean Software for ZX Spectrum, Commodore 64 and Amstrad CPC.
Royalty Free: The Music of Kevin MacLeod is a 2020 American documentary film about the composer Kevin MacLeod.
Tow is a 2025 American drama film directed by Stephanie Laing, written by Jonathan Keasey and Brant Boivin, and starring Rose Byrne, Dominic Sessa, Demi Lovato, Ariana DeBose, Octavia Spencer, Simon Rex, and Elsie Fisher.
The story of the film revolves around an antique box purchased by the female protagonist, after which the couple face paranormal activities.
The film, starring Emraan Hashmi and Nikita Dutta in the lead role, is a remake of Jay's 2017 Malayalam film Ezra.
Mitchell later recalls, "I think we both felt a pretty fair amount of pressure when we started shooting.
During the restaurant scene, Pitt tried to ad-lib a line as he wanted to get a Screen Actors Guild (SAG) card, but the assistant director threatened to fire him if he tried again.
In reality, there was no such special model, and in any event, 1955 was not the 50th anniversary of Oldsmobile.
Remakes Login was remade into Telugu as Ladies & Gentlemen, which was well received by both the audience and critics.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 81% of 52 critics' reviews are positive.
Once this has been accomplished, it travels along the power lines to the next house, and the terror restarts.
Lovia Gyarke of The Hollywood Reporter also gave the film a positive review and wrote, "Still, in its modest way, Tow sends a powerful message about how many of us have more in common with a person sleeping in a car than we do the billionaires we've been conditioned to admire".
On 2 October 2019, WAU Animation had officially released the official theatrical poster of the film, which also revealed the release date for Malaysian cinemas.
Hibernatus is a 1969 French-Italian comedy film directed by Édouard Molinaro and written by Jean Bernard-Luc.
Plot Rolling Stone reporter Adam Lawrence is sent from New York to Los Angeles to write an article about Joe McKenzie, a businessman arrested for dealing drugs.
Cast Himanshu Bhatt as Mrityunjay Viswa karma Radhika Roy as Vandana Akkash Basnet as Debasish Mondal Rashmi Gautam as Vrutika Nandini Rai as Divya KK Binojee as Vishaal Siddharth Chopra as Johnny Pavani Reddy as Seema Soundtrack Critical reception Login was rated 3 stars by The Times of India.
Interviewees References External links The AI Doc: Or How I Became an Apocaloptimist at IMDb The AI Doc: Or How I Became an Apocaloptimist at Rotten Tomatoes The AI Doc: Or How I Became an Apocaloptimist at Metacritic
Makaio had sent KK to the industrialist's office in the name of retrieving his case files, but is actually a trap set by Vincent who had to have someone framed for the murder.
The AI Doc: Or How I Became an Apocaloptimist is a 2026 American documentary film directed by Daniel Roher and Charlie Tyrell.
KK knocks Vincent and acquires the pen drive containing the footage of the assassination and plants it on Vasu, who has been captured by Catherine, and silently escapes.
It grossed over RM30 million in Malaysia, making it the highest-grossing Malaysian animated film of all time.
Charlie informs his men that they and their families will be executed if they fail to retrieve Jamie.
Home media The film was released on June 9, 2009, in the United States in both standard DVD format and Blu-ray.
The original script was almost irresponsible, with things like battleships getting blown up...the way it was, Dreadnought would have cost $100 million-plus to make.
After a kidnapping and a pursuit, the authorities reluctantly agree, but impose, for the sake of Paul's mental health, that his environment be the same as in 1905.
Unfortunately, she then sells the patent rights to the emagi to Francis Benoit, who plans to sell the emagi at $999 a piece and reap a huge profit.
They stall and kill several mercenaries, but Johnny is killed by a sniper while trying to signal the police and Ruby is mortally wounded while aiding Vance's escape.
The Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) provides information to investors about what companies are doing to mitigate the risks of climate change, as well as be transparent about the way in which they are governed.
Retail exposures are usually not managed by the bank on an individual basis for risk rating purposes, but as groups of exposures with similar risk characteristics.
It functions under the Department of Revenue in the Union Ministry of Finance and is concerned with the collection and administration of, as well as enforcement and prosecution of cases related to, the various direct taxes accruing to the Union Government.
For an exposure to qualify under this category, the return of the funds invested on the equities can be only realized through their sale or by liquidation of the issuer of these equities.
The Korea Financial Investment Association (KOFIA; Korean: 금융투자협회; RR: Geumnyung Tuja Hyeophoe) is a non-profit, self-regulatory organization (SRO) in South Korea, founded under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act.
For this reason investment banks generally concentrate on having a retail sales team for financial products consisting exclusively of Tier 2 advisers.
After the Taliban regained control of the country in August 2021, FinTRACA's access to international financial intelligence data was removed.
The commission has also been tasked with new responsibilities including promoting public understanding of the financial system and its products, policing the perimeter of regulated activity, reducing financial crime and preventing market abuse.
From November 1, 2001, to March 9, 2004, it was called Financial Monitoring Committee (Комитет по финансовому мониторингу).
By operating the Korea Institute of Financial Investment (KIFIN), KOFIA cultivates industry professionals.
The aim should be increasing German food consumption, increasingly paid for by Germany’s own exports.
Mrs Hatton was a former financial regulator in Jersey, and is Fellow of the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies and a Freeman of the Worshipful Company of International Bankers.
Cornering the market In cornering the market, the manipulators buy a sufficiently large amount of an asset, often a commodity, so they can control the price creating in effect a monopoly.
At its meeting on 13 and 14 March 2008, the European Council called for swift improvements to the functioning of the Committees of Supervisors (Council Conclusions 7652/1/08 Rev 1.).
2000–2001: the dot-com crash From 2001 to 2003, following the dot-com crash, poor investment returns contributed to an increase in unfunded liabilities, representing $14B of the $27B rise.
It is a government agency entrusted to assess, collect and account for all taxes, fees and levies in Rivers State, Nigeria.
By 2016 it had almost 200 hedge fund managers and institutional investors as members; the total assets under management of all members was $3 trillion.
America could as well allocate the badly needed conveyor belts for the above ground pits and steel billets to British manufacturers of mining machinery.
The bank had been speculating by shorting East India Company stock on a massive scale, and apparently using customer deposits to cover losses.
It was concerned with the independence of auditors in the wake of the collapse of Arthur Andersen and the Enron scandal in the US in 2002.
In 2009, Governor Pat Quinn included pension reforms for newly-hired public employees, including a higher retirement age and capped cost-of-living adjustment rate, but the proposed changes were not enacted by lawmakers.
Subject to a maximum of 1 million euros, exposures to small businesses managed as retail exposures also fall under this category.
NAIC model acts and regulations provide some degree of uniformity between states, but these models do not have the force of law and have no effect unless they are adopted by a state.
Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering References External links Official website (in Russian) Банку России нашли надзирателя by Igor Moiseyev, Anna Inozemtseva, Svetlana Dementyeva.
The government has mandated a minimum price, but the market already bears and is using a higher price, this is called a non-binding price floor.
Financial System In June 2018, the staff of the Committee developed a comprehensive overview of the structure, operation, and transparency of the U.S.
surplus An important artifact of the state-based insurance regulation system in the United States is the dichotomy between admitted and surplus insurers.
International cooperation KDIF has maintained membership in the International Association of Deposit Insurers since 2003.
Therefore a reinforced legal framework regarding the role and tasks of the Committee in this respect should be provided.
Credit scores, such as FICO for consumers or bond ratings from S&P, Fitch or Moodys for corporations or governments, typically imply a certain probability of default.
The IASB Due Process Handbook describes the consultative arrangements of the IASB, and includes information on how standards are developed.
[...] to establish a new organisational structure for financial services committees (OJ L 79, 24 March 2005, p.
The rules are deployed in four phases: banks and broker-dealers (11 April 2020), financial markets infrastructures (11 July 2020), insurers and asset managers (11 October 2020) and non-financial entities (11 January 2021).
Charges were filed under Russian Criminal Code Article 159, Part 4 (fraud by organised group) and Article 210 (criminal organisation).
The Code of Conduct was not only meant to guarantee an increased transparency of prices and services in the cross-border securities business, but was also supposed to stimulate the international securities traffic.
The governing laws and regulations are laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On banks and banking activity” (1995) and Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On mandatory insurance of deposits placed with the second-tier banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan” (2006).
The commission was established by the enactment of the Financial Services Commission Act on 26 November 2003 and it commenced operations on 2 February 2004.
See also List of financial supervisory authorities by country References External links Official website
By 1740, Rhode Island bills of exchange were only four percent of face value and those of Massachusetts was eleven percent.
See also List of company registers List of financial supervisory authorities by country References External links Official Website
US airfare before 1978 Until the late 1970s, government regulated price floors on airfares in the US made flying "absurdly expensive" to the point that in 1965, more than 80% of Americans had never flown on a jet.
The new member paid a net fee of 69,800 yuan, and then returned the new person 19,000 yuan, the remaining 50,800 yuan, will undergo layer-by-layer exploitation.
The Hampel Report relied more on broad principles and a 'common sense' approach which was necessary to apply to different situations rather than Cadbury and Greenbury's 'box-ticking' approach.
The scope of coverage are bank accounts of individuals and individual entrepreneurs of all types with resident banks in the Republic of Kazakhstan in any currency.
In September 2017, the board announced that it was changing its name from HFSB to the SBAI or Standards Board for Alternative Investments (SBAI) to "reflect the evolution of the industry".
The Council noted that specific tasks could be explicitly given to the Committees to foster supervisory cooperation and convergence, and their role in assessing risks to financial stability.
Regulation SHO was the SEC's first update to short selling restrictions since the uptick rule in 1938.
Bank Loans made to banks or securities firms subject to regulatory capital requirements come under this category.
Fugitive individuals Two key figures remain at large with active international warrants: According to Russian prosecutorial documents, both fugitives face charges under Criminal Code Article 210, Part 3 (criminal organisation leadership) and Article 159, Part 4 (large-scale fraud).
In the Starting itself the AFSA made it clear that the ALSE will majorly focus on the Government Securities Trading in the very first Year of establishment.
The Act provided for disclosure of information, subpoena power, administrative procedure, criminal and civil sanctions, injunctions and suits for damages and other relief.
History Prior to the establishment of the IA, the insurance industry in Hong Kong was overseen by the Hong Kong government's Office of the Commissioner of Insurance, which had no power to control agents.
1947 The European Vicious Cycle Brown found out different vicious cycles in the European economies, which could affect the United States.
Overview The Securities Financing Transaction Regulation (SFTR) is a body of legislation for securities lending markets.
The remit of the committee was to review the Code laid down by the Cadbury Report (now found in the Combined Code).
The tactic involves using specialized, high-bandwidth hardware to quickly enter and withdraw large quantities of orders in an attempt to flood the market, thereby gaining an advantage over slower market participants.
The increase of the price from the initial value of AU$1.30 to AU$1.50 gave researchers a second chance to study the impact of the increased minimum price.
The funds available under the margin loan are determined by the broker based on the securities owned and provided by the trader, which act as collateral for the loan.
International subdivision – Linda Athanasiadou (Λίντα Αθανασιάδου) (Линда Атанасиаду), also known by aliases Kovalenko, Torres, and Athanasiades, managed all offshore financial infrastructure and head of the offshore money-laundering hub.
On the one hand, the UN and the Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy hailed the Agreement as 'historic' for securing NDC commitments from 189 countries.
Bear raid In a bear raid there is an attempt to push the price of a stock down by heavy selling or short selling.
It has ten extension offices located in Baguio, Tarlac, Legazpi, Iloilo, Bacolod, Cebu, Tacloban, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, and Zamboanga.
The ISSB intends to work 'in close cooperation' with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to ensure harmonisation is achieved between the conceptually based IFRS accounting standards and the ISSB's sustainability disclosure standards.
The Member controls the: Directorate General of Income Tax Investigation Directorate of Income Tax Intelligence and Criminal Investigation Chief Commissioner of Income Tax Central See also List of Income Tax Department officer ranks Civil Services of India == References ==
Poland took over all of Germany’s Silesian mines which can export ten to fifteen million tons to coal deficit countries.
Matters relating to the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976; 8.
Types of margin requirements The current liquidating margin is the value of a security's position if the position were liquidated now.
All the financial activities in Albania are administered and regulated by the Albanian Financial Supervisory Authority (AFSA).
All securities, asset management and futures firms in Korea are KOFIA members and are subject to KOFIA’s self-regulatory operations.
In 1978, the US government deregulated airfares, on the grounds that flying is not a necessity (like food or prescription drugs), and nor was it addictive (like alcohol).
However, some brokerage firms that specialize in penny stocks (referred to colloquially as bucket shops) have used the lack of short selling during this month to pump and dump thinly traded IPOs.
The Agency of Deposit Compensation is a public institution and is accountable to the Council of Ministers of Belarus and to National Bank of Belarus.
The Anti–Money Laundering and Counter–Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth) (AML/CTF Act) is the principal legislative instrument, although there are also offence provisions contained in Division 400 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth).
Repeal Provisions relating to minimum pricing of alcohol were repealed in 2025 by the Liquor Legislation Amendment (Repeal of Minimum Pricing) Act 2025.
The single overriding objective shared by all listed companies, whatever their size or type of business is the preservation and the greatest practical enhancement over time of their shareholders' investment.
A price floor may lead to market failure if the market is not able to allocate scarce resources in an efficient manner.
It is involved in the formulation of tax policy as well as the supervision of revenue collection due to the state.
Nixon commented on the futile attempts to contain the economy in the 1960s and promised to bring about change by proposing tax cuts over the course of his term to create new jobs.
§ 1904) was a United States law that authorized the President to stabilize prices, rents, wages, salaries, interest rates, dividends and similar transfers as part of a general program of price controls within the American domestic goods and labor markets.
"Basel II: International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: a Revised Framework".
An unlimited state guarantee was announced on 31 July 2008 (excluding deposits belonging to individuals registered as sole traders).
Definitions In a perfect market (one that matches a simple microeconomic model), an excess of demand will prompt sellers to increase prices until demand at that price matches the available supply, establishing market equilibrium.
The institution replaced the two previous institutions named the Unit Trusts and the Securities Commission along with the Office of the Superintendent of Insurance (OSI).
See also Combined Code Cadbury Report (1992) Greenbury Report (1995) Hampel Report (1998) Turnbull Report Higgs Report (2003) References External links Smith Report (in full) General page by the Financial Reporting Council
During searches at QBF's headquarters in the "City of Capitals" complex, investigators found documentation and electronic media, including a memo for managers advising how to behave during law enforcement visits.
Labour shortages can occur even during economic periods of high unemployment or youth unemployment within specific industries due to low salaries offered.
'Deposit Guarantee Fund of Kazakhstan') is a non-profit organization that guarantees deposits of individuals (including individual entrepreneurs) and placed with second-tier banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The associations' aim is to provide members with the opportunity to review the latest developments in corporate business registers internationally and exchange experiences and information on the present and future operation of corporate business registration systems.
The second-generation manager was awarded 2,394 yuan, and the third-generation manager was awarded 1,596 yuan.
From an industry dominated by small, local, single-line mutual companies and member societies, the business of insurance has grown increasingly towards multi-line, multi-state and even multi-national insurance conglomerates and holding companies.
Its recommendations now form part of the Combined Code on corporate governance, applicable through the Listing Rules for the London Stock Exchange.
References External links Official web-page(in Russian) Information about ADC(in Russian) at National Bank of the Republic of Belarus
The new supervisory body took over the tasks of the Insurance and Pension Funds Supervisory Commission and of the Securities and Exchange Commission (Poland), which were abolished pursuant to that act.
Unlike the earlier act, this statute did not prohibit the colonies from issuing paper money, but it did forbid them from designating future currency issues as legal tender for public and private debts.
It was established in December 2015 by the Group of 20 (G20) and the Financial Stability Board (FSB), and is chaired by Michael Bloomberg.
In January 2008, the working group was established as a nonprofit, called the Hedge Fund Standards Board (HFSB).
It would lead on to the European Market Infrastructure Regulation and other central counterparty clearing harmonization as part of the European Union.
The SEC is among the few securities commissions in the world that simultaneously acts as a corporate registrar and a securities regulator.
The Polish Financial Supervision Authority, in Polish Urząd Komisji Nadzoru Finansowego (UKNF) is the main financial supervisory authority for Poland.
Impact Initially there was a community backlash against the act - several Territory Labor Party members of the Legislative Assembly acknowledged that communication around the act had not been handled well, that the party was 'in a muddle'.
See also Glossary of Islam Imam Marabout Mawlawi Mullah Marja Sheikh Rumi, Persian poet also known as Mawlana == References ==
In Germany, it was further developed and disseminated primarily by Johann Michael Sailer and is considered a precursor to modern pastoral care.
The term is missing in all theological and rituals-related text preceding the 2nd-century BCE, as well as the earliest Dharmasutras texts.
Shripujya The heads of the institutions of Śvetāmbara yatis were often termed shripujya, similar to Digambara institutions headed by the Bhattarakas.
See also The Occultation Khasf al-Bayda' Shu'ayb bin Salih Voice from heaven Reappearance of al-Mahdi Nafs-e-Zakiyyah (Pure soul) The signed letter of Muhammad al-Mahdi (Tawqee) == References ==
During the Priestly Blessing, the Levites traditionally wash the hands of the Kohanim prior to the blessing of the House of Israel.
Nestorius, Theodore of Mopsuestia & Ibas of Edessa condemned as heresiarchs - the former by the Council of Ephesus, the latter 2 posthumously at the 2nd Council of Constantinople over the Controversy of Three Chapters, for promoting Nestorianism, but venerated in Church of the East denominations.
Bhaktisiddhānta Sarasvatī Prabhupāda uses it for Śrī Caitanya Mahāprabhu in his song Guru Paramparā.
Against the often mechanized routine, particularly from the monastic tradition, efforts were made to address this, such as by Bernard of Clairvaux.
Kavi Santokh Singh, in Suraj Prakash, describes this moment: Arrived at Hari Mandir, ragis were singing in rags’s high notes.
Because of diverse geographical locations, the names have several variations: Alouwi – Arabic variant, of Sephardic origin Aguiló – surname to the Jews from Mallorca (Xuetes) Bazes – a Levite surname.
The assembly of Saltigues would predict the outcome, offer precautionary advice on when to launch the attack, the route to take to the battlefield and the animals to be sacrificed, etc.
Derived from the root "yat," meaning "to strive" or "to make an effort," Yati traditionally refers to one who is disciplined, dedicated, and often associated with ascetics or sages (tapasvis) who have renounced worldly attachments in pursuit of higher spiritual goals.
Like any modern professional, ordained graduates negotiate the terms of employment with potential employers and sign a contract specifying duties, duration of service, salary, benefits, pension, and the like.
A dasasīlamātā (Pali) or dasa sil mata (Sinhala: දස සිල් මාතා) is an Eight- or Ten Precepts-holding anagārikā (lay renunciant) in Buddhism in Sri Lanka, where the newly reestablished bhikkhuni (nun's) lineage is not officially recognized yet.
Today kohanim retain a lesser though somewhat distinct status within Judaism, and are bound by additional restrictions according to Orthodox Judaism.
"The people long brooded in silence over the oppressions and outrages of this high caste, whom they deeply hated but greatly feared.
Judaism As of 2023, the official rabbi of the prison ministry is Jonathan Markovitch, an emissary of Chabad.
He proffers that the mahasiddha tradition "broke with the conventions of Buddhist monastic life of the time, and abandoning the monastery they practiced in the caves, the forests, and the country villages of Northern India.
Election India The Grand Mufti of India is elected by the Sunni Barelvi Muslims and appointed by the Barelvi Sunni Muslims.
Sheikhs duplicate the Prophetic realities, and are also expected to perform and act as an intermediary between the Creator and the created, since the sheikh has arrived close to God through his meditations and spiritual travels.
Guru gotra, refers to the practice of adopting the name of guru or the parampara as one's gotra (surname) instead of gotra at birth.
According to this definition, pastoral care describes the general work of the clergy of taking care of the people in their community.
Also in December 2012, the manual To minister prisoners was published, written by Sergey Zamula, Yuri Cousio, Jaroslav Storonyak, Igor Car, Basil Pantelyuk, Emelyan Kolodchak, and Constantine Pantelei.
The title "Elder" is usually given to those Anglicans ministers who are not vicars, but hold a learned role within or beyond a congregation, such as a Reader who assists a priest or a Pioneer Minister who seeks to engage with those who are outside the traditional Anglican Communion structures.
Earlier examples of firzogerin include Rebbetsin Serril Rappaport of Oleksiniec (daughter of the Dubner Maggid, c.
Lay preachers in the Anglican Communion are usually called Pastors, especially Chaplains and other pastoral office holders, who are not ordained but engage with a congregation or workplace in an advisory capacity.
7th century Augustine of Hippo posthumously refers to Mani, the founder of Manichaeism, as a heresiarch.
And of these there are two classes, some of them called Sarmanae ("Σαρμάναι"), and Brahmanae ("Βραχμαναι").
Divine knowledge is universal, and their knowledge after obtaining enlightenment through Naam Simran has been compiled and included in the holy book of Sikhism, the Sri Guru Granth Sahib.
Seyed Khorasani (Arabic: ٱلسَّيِّد ٱلْخُرَاسَانِي, romanized: As-Sayyid Al-Khurāsānī) is an Islamic leader whose rising is an essential part of Islamic eschatology.
While often labeled “monks” and "nuns" in English, some consider it offensive and misleading to refer to non-celibate Buddhist clergy by this term, as it conflates them with bhikkhu and bhikkhuni.
Jisha (侍者), along with the titles inji and sannō, are Japanese terms used in reference to the personal attendant of a monastery's abbot or teacher in Zen Buddhism.
In the contemporary era, Egyptian Muhaddith Qadi Ahmad Shakir would confer the title "Hujjat al-Islam" to his teacher Muhammad Rashid Rida, upon his death.
The Araba is often regarded as the highest-ranking babalawo in a town or region, serving as both a spiritual and community leader.
In Church of England cathedrals, the Canon Chancellor (more usually known simply as the Chancellor) is one of the canons of the cathedral who has a particular responsibility for matters of education and scholarship, often acting as the cathedral librarian and archivist.
The title has been in common use since the 5th century, but is mentioned for the first time in a letter to Epiphanius, prefixed to his Panarium (c.
While the specific historical details may be challenging to ascertain due to the ancient nature of the Ifá system, it is clear that the babalawo and Ifá practice have deep cultural and religious significance within the Yoruba community.
Consequently, there are among the Karaites many learned men who are called by the title "ha-melammed ha-gadol" (the great master), or merely "ha-melammed" (the master; comp.
These discussions developed in different directions and were influenced by traditions (hadith) attributed to Muhammad.
The latter are not necessarily shamans, and their function is merely to hold sacrifices (the word zhrets literally means "sacrificer", from Proto-Slavic *žьrti, and is cognate of Slavic words for "offering").
In Burma, an eight precept nun is addressed as thilashin or sayalay, whereas a fully ordained woman is called a rahan-ma ("female monk").
According to Al-Fadl ibn Shadhan of Neyshabur, in an authentic document from Imam Ja'far al-Sadiq, al-Khorasani is one of the townspeople of Samarkand, and he is considered to be amongst the assistants of the Mahdi.
Lise McKean states the guru concept has been prevalent over the range of class and caste backgrounds, and the disciples a guru attracts come from both genders and a range of classes and castes.
See also List of yoga schools List of Hindu gurus and sants Ngagpa Rishi Notes References Sources External links Yoga/Yoga Tales at Wikibooks Media related to Yogis at Wikimedia Commons
The melamed was appointed by the community, and there were special regulations determining how many children he might teach, as well as rules governing the choice of applicants for the office and the dismissal of a melamed.
Nine of the fourteen Malaysian states have their own sultan; each of these nine states have their own mufti who usually controls the Islamic Council or Islamic Department of the state.
This relentless inner drive, combined with their composed nature, makes them inclined towards creative thinking, spiritual depth, and analytical clarity.
The prototype of this new type of rabbinical leader and educator was Rabbi Nosson Tzvi Finkel (1849-1927) known as the Alter (elder) of the Slabodka yeshiva, Yeshivas Knesses Yisrael (Slabodka), in Lithuania.
Congregation elders do not receive monetary compensation; traveling overseers receive a modest stipend.
However, in 1978 Pope John Paul I chose not to be crowned and opted for a simpler papal inauguration ceremony, and his successors have followed that example.
Cultural contributions: founding Hindu temples The history of Nath yogis has been diverse, such as in the 11th and 12th centuries, when Buddhists in South India converted to Nath siddha traditions and helped establish Shiva Hindu temples and monasteries.
It has been mentioned in the traditions (hadiths) that "you ought to have the expectation of Faraj from three things": Establishment of differences between the ones who are from Shaam, for the things which is between them; Fear/bewilderment in the month of Ramadan.
Not all countries with large Sunni Muslim populations have Grand Muftis; in those that do, the Grand Mufti is typically appointed by the state or elected by a council of scholars.
Mahayana In Mahayana Buddhism, Vinaya based monasticism is part of the system of "vows of individual liberation".
In addition to this, some of them also perform divination services on behalf of the kings and paramount chiefs of the Yoruba people.
This parallel prayer system was probably welcome to women for whom the Hebrew liturgy, due to their lack of education, was largely incomprehensible.
They are usually a rabbi who has an official position within a yeshiva and is responsible for the non-academic areas of yeshiva students' lives.
121 Centre d'étude des civilisations, "Cahiers du mythe." Issues 4-5, Nouvelles éditions africaines.
This led to a conservative reaction on the part of the Jewish Community in Berlin, and the appointment of one Asher Lion (1776–1863) as the chazzan of the Reform temple.
“Buddha, open Sahib Grinth, make [Sabad] resound, [let] the whole Panth listen.”32 After listening to [Guru’s] ask liked by mind, [Buddha’s] mouth spoke statement is true.
Hence, frequently, when they are seen to be well, and are neither oppressed, nor driven to desperation by any evil, they depart from life.
Distinctions in practice Church governance is generally organised in one of three main types: Episcopal polity, in which churches are governed in a hierarchical fashion, with the role of elders being fulfilled by external bishops.
A mashgiach ruchani (Hebrew: משגיח רוחני; pl., mashgichim ruchani'im), sometimes mashgiach for short, is a spiritual supervisor or guide.
Kiev Metropolis Initially, in some cases it served as an extra title: for example, manuscripts of 1174 mention Hegumen Polikarp of Kiev Cave Monastery as "Hegumen Archimandrite".
Modern Hinduism can be regarded as a combination of Vedic and śramaṇa traditions as it is substantially influenced by both traditions.
In 19th-century Germany and the United States, the duties of the rabbi in some respects became increasingly similar to the duties of other clergy, such as the Protestant Christian minister, and the title "pulpit rabbis" arose to describe this phenomenon.
Role of Saltigues in Serer society The Saltigues were responsible for predicting the future of kings, the weather, any natural disaster or political catastrophe that could befall the country, etc.
This is an acceptance of the full physical and spiritual discipline outlined in the Sikh Reht Maryada through a religious ceremony performed at the Gurdwara called an Amrit Sanchar.
In other Christian traditions (e.g., Presbyterianism, Churches of Christ, Plymouth Brethren), an elder may be a lay person serving as an administrator in a local congregation, or be ordained and serving in preaching (teaching during church gatherings) or pastoral roles.
The term is frequently used in Sufi orders such as the Naqshbandiyya, Qādiriyya, Chishtiya, Shadhiliya and Suhrawardiyya.
Virupa (alternate orthographies: Birwapa/Birupa) lived in 9th century India and was known for his great attainments.
There are also specific youth-oriented programs, such as Coming of Age, and Our Whole Lives, a lifespan sexuality education program with a youth age group.
In Shia Islam, Hujjaj al-Islam are supposed to be an authority in order to guide them until the return of Imam al-Mahdi while preserving and continuing his teachings.
The role of the mashgiach ruchani was strongest in the era before World War II, when often the mashgichim were responsible for maintaining the yeshiva financially, recruiting and interviewing new students, and hiring staff, something akin to academic deans.
In Thailand, where it is illegal for a woman to take a bhikkhuni ordination, they are called maechi.
In some cases, their training includes mastery of hundreds of odu Ifá verses, herbal medicine, ritual performance, and the spiritual philosophy of Yoruba cosmology.
The warrior ascetics were institutionalized as a religious order by Gorakhnath and were expanding in the 13th century, after the establishment of the first Islamic Sultanate in India.
Approaching the Great Perfection: Simultaneous and Gradual Approaches to Dzogchen Practice in Jigme Lingpa's Longchen Nyingtig.
The Dvija restrictions may be theoretical, because most students learnt their economically useful skills through apprenticeship within their family or at guilds.
Chancellor is an ecclesiastical title used by several quite distinct officials of some Christian churches.
This term, first established in the beginning of Islamic history, used to refer to figures who served as authorities, but now it is used to refer to the scholars who have Islamic knowledge.
Anything he proposed however, would have to pass through government's Department of Cults and Education.
Similar to an abbot visitor, the archimandrite would visit the monasteries under his charge to see that the monks were keeping a serious religious life, to draw attention to abuses, straighten out difficulties and give confidence and encouragement to all those who needed it.
Notable persons Kumaran Asan, one of the triumvirate poets of modern Kerala References External links Media related to Aasaan at Wikimedia Commons
Etymology In Classical Sanskrit, the word yogi (Sanskrit: masc yogī, योगी; fem yoginī) is derived from yogin, which refers to a practitioner of yoga.
Martin of Armenia, the fictional founder of the Old Russian Rite used by the Old Believers Dante's Inferno In his Divine Comedy, Dante Alighieri represents the heresiarchs as being immured in tombs of fire in the Sixth Circle of Hell.
As such, he plays only a marginal role in Sunni Islam, and some Sunni theologians have rejected the concept of the Mahdi altogether.
The melamed was not allowed to punish his pupils too severely; and he had to teach both in the daytime and during part of the night.
See also Babalú-Ayé Iyalawo Pai-de-santo References External links http://ifa-houseofwisdom.com/babalawo.html https://web.archive.org/web/20180102013424/http://www.ifafoundation.org/does-the-babalawo-tell-all/ Abdullahi, Aa (15 July 2011).
Eventually, the common usage of the term Asan gradually lost its original meaning as a venerated symbolic representation for teachers, as it is found used in every parlance without any significance to its meaning.
A leader appearing in the person of the young brave whom we have named, the people rose under his direction and killed every Nicotani (Ni-go-ta-ni), young and old.
Latin Church In the Roman rite, the senior Cardinal Deacon is the Cardinal Protodeacon of the Holy Roman Church.
Traditionally, a Kshatriya would start learning the use of arms, while a Vaishya would start a trade apprenticeship.
Qualifications To be appointed a Granthi, one of the main qualifications is the commitment to the Sikh religion by becoming an Amritdhari Sikh.
The female members of Ganaka were generally addressed as Asatti or Asaatti, because they too had engaged in teaching 3Rs to pupil.
In addition to these regulations, many others concerning the melamed are given in Yoreh De'ah, as well as in Hoshen Mishpat, but some of them are not observed at present.
Traditionally, the title "Jagadguru" is used by the peetadhipathis of various mathas founded by renowned spiritual leaders such as Adi Shankaracharya, Ramanujacharya, Madhvacharya, Nimbarkacharya, and Vallabhacharya.
In contemporary Japanese Buddhism, non-celibate clergy are commonly referred by terms like sōryo (僧侶), and are regarded as distinct from bhikkhu, known in Japanese as biku (比丘).
shaman, gothi or mage) is a priest in ancient Slavic religions and contemporary Slavic Native Faith.
Disposal of PCP and PCP-contaminated substances are regulated under RCRA as F-listed (F021) or D-listed (D037) hazardous wastes.
It also provides for prohibition of or conditions relating to certain goods from being brought or imported into Australian territory.
Relatively large numbers of studies have been done on tropical coral reefs as the pressure on them has been perceived to be highest.
Government environmental policy The government of Uzbekistan has acknowledged the extent of the country's environmental problems, and it has made a commitment to address them in its Biodiversity Action Plan.
By varying the temperature, the characteristics of the resulting carbonized material, such as the carbon form, composition, and surface chemical functional groups, can be controlled.
The 2023 submission, titled Nivel de Referencia de Emisiones Forestales por la Deforestación del Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, covers the REDD+ activity “reducing emissions from deforestation” at national scale.
In this framework, tree cover refers to vegetation taller than 5 m (including natural forests and tree plantations), and tree cover loss is defined as the complete removal of tree cover canopy for a given year, regardless of cause.
In particular, hooded seal muscle meat contained 379 μg/g of iron and harp seal muscle meat contained 30 μg/g of zinc.
Synthesis Fenarimol is made by the reaction of 2,4'-dichlorobenzophenone with an organolithium pyrimidine made via bromine-lithium exchange.
This information is, however, essentially presented in a literary style; in the words of Mark Tredinnick: "This is the kind of geography an essayist writes.
It is used as ballast in sailboat keels; its density allows it to take up a small volume and minimize water resistance, thus counterbalancing the heeling effect of wind on the sails.
The southeastern portion of Uzbekistan is characterized by the foothills of the Tian Shan mountains, which rise higher in neighboring Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and form a natural border between Central Asia and China.
Metacritic reports a weighted average score of 76 out of 100 based on 8 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
Long-term exposure to low levels, such as those that occur in the workplace, can cause damage to the liver, kidneys, blood, and nervous system.
A report published by the UNU Institute for Water, Environment and Health in 2026 points out that the terms “water stress” and “water crisis” are no longer adequate to describe the current global water availability situation.
Main sectors, as defined by ISIC standards, include agriculture; forestry and fishing; manufacturing; electricity industry; and services.
Heather Mallick described the book as "the biggest true crime story ever told." The book was one of The Washington Post's 10 best books of 2022 and was shortlisted for the Hilary Weston Writers' Trust Prize for Nonfiction the same year.
Accumulation is not common, but if it does occur, the major sites are the liver, kidneys, plasma protein, spleen, and fat.
Biomagnification of PCP in the food chain is not thought to be significant due to the fairly rapid metabolism of the compound by exposed organisms.
Biosecurity emergencies Chapter 8, Part 2 of the Act deals with "emergencies involving threats or harm to human health on a nationally significant scale".
It won the Best Score/Music Award at the 2011 SXSW Film Festival and was nominated for at the 34th News & Documentary Emmy Awards.
Strategies for sustainable use management Several methodologies have been developed with the intention of minimising the environmental impact of divers on coral reefs Carrying capacity approach, where the number of divers is restricted.
At the end of World War II, many people believed that scientific advancements had the potential to solve various societal problems.
The book "surveys the tortuous process by which the Biological Board of Canada was established in 1912 to supersede a board of management that had overseen a floating biological station off the Atlantic coast since 1898, and permanent stations at St.
These variations in scarcity may also be a function of prevailing economic policy and planning approaches.
Environmental threats and challenges The decline of the delta smelt may have been caused by environmental challenges, both natural and human-derived.
This event is facilitated by Elizabeth Rivers, former commercial lawyer and professional facilitator, and Vicki Elcoate, executive director of UKELA.
These batteries have lower energy density and charge-discharge efficiency than lithium-ion batteries, but are significantly cheaper.
Overshoot: The Ecological Basis of Revolutionary Change is a book by American sociologist William R.
Regional experts assert that salt and dust storms from the Aral Sea have raised the level of particulate matter in the Earth's atmosphere by more than 5%, seriously affecting global climate change.
The idea for Trash, Inc came during the Great Recession and the relative stability of publicly traded waste management companies.
40 of the fertilized embryos were implanted in 20 surrogate rhesus mothers, each carrying two embryos.
The World Bank says that climate change could profoundly alter future patterns of water availability and use.
Eight Alberta municipalities formally expressed concerns about coal mining in the eastern slopes, including Lethbridge, Turner Valley, High Level, Okotoks, and Canmore.
Yet successes have been achieved: the growth of the EEP has been considerable since its initiation in 1985.
In simple terms, the annual loss number is the area where tree cover disappeared in that year, and the extent number shows what remains of the 2000 tree cover baseline after subtracting cumulative loss.
Withdrawals also include water from desalination plants in countries where they are a significant source.
These contaminants can have long-term, sub-lethal effects that reduce the population's resilience to other environmental stressors.
This film focuses solely on environmental pollution in a single village and the devastating effects it has had on the local populous.
With Roosevelt's final public word on the matter, the controversy began to die down in earnest, although its key players continued to comment on the debate's major points for the next few years.
Great Acceleration Catton begins by recounting the story of Russian peasants in 1921 who chose to starve rather than consume the seed wheat needed for future planting.
In 2003, while the factory was state-owned, local residents protested the plant because of its pollution and were attacked and beaten.
We have temporarily increased the planet's ability to support humans, but this has often come at the cost of other species and the depletion of geological reserves.
The country's first national park, Yellowstone, was established in 1872, and by 1900 it had been followed by half a dozen more.
The transducers were temporarily altered for this test to transmit sound at 50 hertz, which is lower than their normal operating frequency.
In fact, the 36 larger plants are in the major cities; however, only nine of them are operational, and the rest of them are under repair.
For each mutant line, groups of seven male and seven female mice move through a standard analysis pipeline aimed at detecting traits that differ from healthy C57BL/6 mice.
Pendimethalin is a selective herbicide of the dinitroaniline class used preëmergently and postemergently to control annual grasses and certain broadleaf weeds.
That is still our position." He also said they were "prepared to apologise for mistakes that had been made but could not apologise until a causal link was proved between the works and the defects...
Trash Inc: The Secret Life of Garbage is a one-hour television documentary film that aired on CNBC on September 29, 2010, about trash/garbage, what happens to it when it's "thrown away", and its impact on the world.
Several factors created or worsened by climate change can be responsible for necessitating managed retreat or the relocation of people and/or infrastructure.
This article lists several areas, regions, and municipalities that have either been completely or markedly depopulated, or are involved in plans for depopulation or relocation due to anthropogenic climate change.
Research has recently shown that beaked and blue whales are sensitive to mid-frequency active sonar and move rapidly away from the source of the sonar, a response that disrupts their feeding and can cause mass strandings.
Scientists also want to try to study and cure other diseases through trans genetics such as Alzheimer's, AIDS, and diabetes.
They also presented a report written by Roger Braithwaite, an environmental expert instructed by the families, which concluded that the negligent handling of the waste by Corby Borough Council demonstrated "naivety, arrogance, ignorance, incompetence and a possible serious conflict of interest...
In November 2006, a conference based on the book was held at the University of Brighton in the UK and organised jointly by UKELA and ELF.
Although the Fergana Valley receives just 100 to 300 millimetres (3.9 to 11.8 in) of rainfall per year, only small patches of desert remain in the center and along ridges on the periphery of the valley.
Government officials and wealthy businessmen have forced their village to be home to several polluting plants, including the largest Jiucailuo Chemical.
The council, which has an annual budget of £12 m, has already spent £1.9 m fighting the case and has now received a bill, as the losing party in the lawsuit, for £4.7 m from the families' solicitor.
This is a literary natural history." In Australia it is considered a landmark environmental publication.
These reefs may be less resilient to other stressors like disease outbreaks and severe weather damage.
The film was premiered at the Mill Valley Film Festival on October 9, 2012, in Mill Valley, California.
In most countries, a significant decrease of dioxin intake has occurred due to stricter controls during the last 20 years.
Foreworded by Thomas Berry, the book was published by Green Books in November 2003 in association with The Gaia Foundation, London.
Ritoma (traditional Chinese:仁多瑪; Simplified Chinese:仁多玛) is a documentary film directed, edited and produced by Oscar-winning filmmaker Ruby Yang.
Small blood pressure increases, particularly in middle-aged and older people, may be apparent and can cause anemia.
Installing spill containment measures prior to a spill can result in significant savings in the event of a spill.
See also Conservation in the United States References External links The Library of Congress - The Evolution of the Conservation Movement, 1850-1920
A legal challenge to the ban was due to be heard in the Federal Court in Sydney on 12 May 2021, part of the challenge was rejected on 10 May.
This resistance mechanism in ryegrass (shared with other dinitroanilines like trifluralin, see for longer explanation) is by an opposing mutation to resistance to prosulfocarb, a thiocarbamate herbicide.
ANDi is the first genetically modified rhesus monkey, who was born at Oregon Health Sciences University (OHSU) on October 1, 2001.
See also International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium SHIRPA References External links The Sanger Mouse Portal, containing all MGP data The MGP Biomart, for extracting phenotypic data
In response, Savage put a pause on coal exploration on Category 2 lands, bowing to the pressure of public opinion until the final report was submitted.
Possible carcinogenic effects At least one study suggests pendimethalin exposure is associated with pancreatic cancer.
POV, Canada's Documentary Magazine review stated: "Sharkwater Extinction is a touching tribute [to late director Rob Stewart] that will inevitably inspire more young minds to carry on Stewart’s mission." The film was nominated for four awards and has won two.
Chromium Primer paint containing hexavalent chromium is still widely used for aerospace and automobile refinishing applications.
Nevertheless, when carbonized at 773 or 873K (500 or 600 °C), the carbonization recovery rate was approximately 12%.
For example, in November 2011, Sumatran tiger Kirana has delivered three cubs at Chester Zoo under EEP which attempts to coordinate breeding between zoos and maintain genetic diversity.
See also All the Fish in the Sea: Maximum Sustainable Yield and the Failure of Fisheries Management by Carmel Finley == References ==
Just the incongruencies in laws can sometimes make exchange of specimens for breeding purposes by two closely situated zoos a formidable task if a border happens to lie between them.
Facing community opposition and personal doubts, Singh works to shut down factories, halt construction of dams, and rouse the Indian public to treat their sacred "Mother Ganga" with respect.
The conference was chaired by former Environment Minister Michael Meacher MP and speakers included Jacqueline McGlade, head of the European Environment Agency and Lynda Warren of the Environment Agency.
Habitat The delta smelt is endemic to the Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta in California, where it is distributed from the Suisun Bay upstream through the delta in Contra Costa, Sacramento, San Joaquin, and Solano Counties.
A local resident details how members of his village are saddened by the transformation and pollution of their home.
Lists Completely depopulated Significantly impacted Gallery See also Climate migration Environmental migrant Extreme event attribution Great Filter Managed retreat List of landmarks destroyed or damaged by climate change == References ==
Manufacturers can also reduce emissions during the creation process by covering materials and tanks to reduce spills and leakage during the blending, mixing, and packaging of the paint.
It controls annual grasses and certain broadleaf weeds which interfere with growth, yield and quality of crops by competing for nutrients, water and light.
Two species were evaluated by the Department of Biology of the University of Bergen and the National Institute of Nutrition and Seafood Research.
The lists contain a general number of the number of people moved or at risk of being moved due to climate change-related causes, as well as rough dates for when programs to relocate were first created or for when a climate disaster first caused significant forcible displacement of a population.
Legislation Techniques for elimination of micropollutants via a so called fourth treatment stage during sewage treatment are implemented in Germany, Switzerland, Sweden and the Netherlands and tests are ongoing in several other countries.
Both in Europe and in U.S.A., the emissions have decreased dramatically since the 1980s, by even 90% (see Figure).
This inspection, alongside tests revealing that the grains were magnetic, led McBride to conclude these grains were pieces of shrapnel.
To create space for these large plantations, large areas have been deforested via slash and burn operations.
This enzyme induction can be initiated by many natural or synthetic compounds, e.g., carcinogenic polycyclic hydrocarbons such as benzo(a)pyrene, several natural compounds, and dioxins.
During its operation a huge quantity of industrial waste, including toxic waste, had been deposited there.
In 1988, the sand on Omaha Beach was discovered to contain man-made metal and glass particles deriving from shrapnel; 4% of the sand in the sample was composed of shrapnel particles ranging in size between 0.06 millimetres (0.0024 in) and 1 mm (0.039 in).
The Great Man-Made River Project, currently under development to transport water from large aquifers under the Sahara Desert to coastal cities, is the world's most extensive water supply project.
Depending on the intensity and technology, some micropollutants are also removed in addition to the bacteria.
Hydrothermal Liquefaction (HTL) is usually conducted at high pressures of 250–500 °C and 50–200 bar or more.
In fact, nonoperational wastewater treatment plants in Tripoli lead to a spill of over 1,275, 000 cubic meters of unprocessed water into the ocean every day.
The orthopole Given any line l, let P, Q, R be the feet of perpendiculars from the vertices A, B, C of triangle ABC to l.
Application of these two results gives x 4 n ( 1 − x ) 4 n 2 2 n − 2 ( 1 + x 2 ) = ∑ j = 0 2 n − 1 ( − 1 ) j 2 2 n − j − 2 x 4 n + j ( 1 − x ) 4 n − 2 j − 2 − 4 ∑ j = 0 3 n − 1 ( − 1 ) 3 n − j x 2 j + ( − 1 ) 3 n 4 1 + x 2 .
By applying steps 3 to 10 to the other side of the figure, it can be similarly shown that rectangle CKLE must have the same area as square ACIH = AC2.
Since A-K-L is a straight line, parallel to BD, then rectangle BDLK has twice the area of triangle ABD because they share the base BD and have the same altitude BK, i.e., a line normal to their common base, connecting the parallel lines BD and AL.
This yields: a) P = P ′ {\displaystyle P=P'} and b) A 1 B 1 , A 3 B 3 {\displaystyle A_{1}B_{1},\ A_{3}B_{3}} intersect at point P {\displaystyle P} , too.
A full-length Pilish novel has been published, Not A Wake by Mike Keith which currently holds the record of the longest Pilish text with 10,000 digits represented.
The triangle ABC and the cevian triangle A'B'C' are in perspective and let DEF be the axis of perspectivity of the two triangles.
An alternative construction is based on the golden triangle, an isosceles triangle with base angles of 72° and apex angle 36°.
The way the multiple languages of geometry then came back together could be explained by the way subgroups of a symmetry group related to each other.
UNESCO's 40th General Conference designated Pi Day as the International Day of Mathematics in November 2019.
In 1680 he accepted an offer from John III Sobieski, the king of Poland, returning to Poland and taking the position of the king's chaplain, mathematician, clock maker, librarian, and tutor of the king's son, Jakub.
n {\displaystyle (p-1)!^{n}} (since the J i {\displaystyle J_{i}} 's are algebraic integers divisible by ( p − 1 ) !
The fundamental sequence is defined by the third-order recurrence relation S n = 2 S n − 1 + S n − 3 for n > 2 , {\displaystyle S_{n}=2S_{n-1}+S_{n-3}{\text{ for }}n>2,} with initial values S 0 = 1 , S 1 = 2 , S 2 = 4.
Radii are drawn from the centre of the quadrant to the points of division of the arc, and these radii are intersected by the lines drawn parallel to AB and through the corresponding points on the radius DA.
He proved that the lune bounded by the arcs labeled E and F in the figure has the same area as triangle ABO.
1040) showed that where two lunes are formed, on the two sides of a right triangle, whose outer boundaries are semicircles and whose inner boundaries are formed by the circumcircle of the triangle, then the areas of these two lunes added together are equal to the area of the triangle.
{\displaystyle A_{p}\equiv A_{1}{\bmod {p}}.} The converse does not hold, but the small number of odd pseudoprimes n ∣ ( A n − 2 ) {\displaystyle \,n\mid (A_{n}-2)} makes the sequence special.
In Euclidean geometry, the bundle theorem is a statement about six circles and eight points in the Euclidean plane.
The 2014 display was part of an ongoing project, directed by artist ISHKY (Ben Davis), and again involved AirSign Aerial Advertising.
Using this definition, π k {\displaystyle \pi _{k}} is prime when k = 5 , 12 , 281 , 547 {\displaystyle k=5,12,281,547} .
The Chen, Engel and Glotzer result currently stands as the densest known packing of hard, regular tetrahedra.
Leonardo drew the illustrations of the regular solids while he lived with and took mathematics lessons from Pacioli.
Pi Approximation Day is observed on July 22 (22/7 in the day/month date format), since the fraction 22⁄7 is a common approximation of π, which is accurate to two decimal places and dates from Archimedes.
The method also allows for the construction of square roots (see constructible number), since starting with a rectangle that has a width of 1 the constructed square will have a side length that equals the square root of the rectangle's length.
Since the group of affine geometry is a subgroup of the group of projective geometry, any notion invariant in projective geometry is a priori meaningful in affine geometry; but not the other way round.
Subtracting the crescent-shaped area AFBDA from the quarter circle gives triangle ABO and subtracting the same crescent from the semicircle gives the lune.
{\displaystyle f\approx 0.381966.\,} The golden angle g can therefore be numerically approximated in degrees as: g ≈ 360 × 0.381966 ≈ 137.508 ∘ , {\displaystyle g\approx 360\times 0.381966\approx 137.508^{\circ },\,} or in radians as : g ≈ 2 π × 0.381966 ≈ 2.39996.
Where precisely he died is uncertain as well, though modern scholars believe that he eventually expired in Cyzicus.
Generalizations Using a similar proof to the one above, the Arab mathematician Hasan Ibn al-Haytham (Latinized name Alhazen, c.
The independence of the parallel postulate from Euclid's other axioms was finally demonstrated by Eugenio Beltrami in 1868.
Rotoinversions and glide reflections were introduced by Evgraf Fedorov and Arthur Moritz Schoenflies to derive the 230 space groups.
Since both arrangements yield the same triangle, the areas of the square and the rectangle must be identical.
{\displaystyle e^{b\theta _{\mathrm {right} }}=\varphi .} Therefore, b is given by b = ln ⁡ φ θ r i g h t .
As its sine and cosine are transcendental numbers, the golden angle cannot be constructed using a straightedge and compass.
There is a curious statement by Plutarch to the effect that Plato disapproved of Menaechmus achieving his doubled cube solution with the use of mechanical devices; the proof currently known appears to be purely algebraic.
See also Fibonacci sequence Golden angle Golden ratio Golden rectangle List of spirals Logarithmic spiral == References ==
An accurate construction of the quadratrix would also allow the solution of another classical problem known to be impossible with compass and straightedge: trisecting an angle.
A sketch of the method can be found in Naṣīr al-Dīn al-Ṭūsī's Book on the Complete Quadrilateral (c.
Algebraically, let a+b be the circumference of a circle, divided into a longer arc of length a and a smaller arc of length b such that a + b a = a b {\displaystyle {\frac {a+b}{a}}={\frac {a}{b}}} The golden angle is then the angle subtended by the smaller arc of length b.
The 2014 display quickly gained publicity making it the number 2 top trending hashtag on Twitter during the display and within 24 hours it was shared and viewed a little over six million times.
WolframMathWorld has a page titled "Triangle conics" which gives a list of 42 items (not all of them are conics) without giving a definition of triangle conic.
"Derivation of remainder term for the Series expansion of π as depicted in Yukthibhasa and its modern Interpretation".
In 2024, the recreational mathematician Matt Parker and a team of hundreds of volunteers at City of London School spent six days calculating 139 correct digits of pi by hand, in what Parker claimed was "the biggest hand calculation in a century".
It includes information about the mean orbital parameters of the planets, such as the number of mean revolutions per Mahayuga, the longitudinal changes of the orbits, and also includes supporting evidence and calculation methods.
Repeated generations of deflation produce a tiling of the original axiom shape with smaller and smaller tiles.
A third manuscript of the work was found among uncatalogued material in the Archives of the Jewish Museum of Prague in 1965.
A suitable stereographical projection shows that for any ovoidal Möbius plane there exists a plane model.
History Date of composition Moritz Steinschneider dated the Mishnat ha-Middot to between 800 and 1200 CE.
Spirals in nature It is sometimes erroneously stated that spiral galaxies and nautilus shells get wider in the pattern of a golden spiral, and hence are related to both φ and the Fibonacci series.
In his "cut and project method", Penrose tilings are obtained as two-dimensional projections from a five-dimensional cubic structure.
Pilish is a style of constrained writing in which the lengths of consecutive words or sentences match the digits of the number π (pi).
Calculation of these integrals: For all integers k ≥ 0 and ℓ ≥ 2 we have x k ( 1 − x ) ℓ = ( 1 − 2 x + x 2 ) x k ( 1 − x ) ℓ − 2 = ( 1 + x 2 ) x k ( 1 − x ) ℓ − 2 − 2 x k + 1 ( 1 − x ) ℓ − 2 .
Analysis of the pattern shows that it is highly sensitive to the angle separating the individual primordia, with the Fibonacci angle giving the parastichy with optimal packing density.
He gave the first copy with a dedication to the Duke of Milan, Ludovico il Moro; this manuscript is now preserved in Switzerland at the Bibliothèque de Genève in Geneva.
{\displaystyle l(w_{n})=S_{n-2}+S_{n-3}+S_{n-4}.} Associated to this string rewriting process is a compact set composed of self-similar tiles called the Rauzy fractal, that visualizes the combinatorial information contained in a multiple-generation three-letter sequence.
The name "cosine circle" is due to the property of the second Lemoine circle that the lengths of the segments intercepted by the circle on the sides of the triangle proportional to the cosines of the angles opposite to the sides.
The diagrams we use show this construction for an acute angle, but it indeed works for any angle up to 180 degrees.
A little earlier than Kepler, Pedro Nunes wrote about it in 1567, and it is "likely to have been widespread in late medieval and Renaissance manuscript traditions".
He systematically discussed negative and imaginary roots of equations and explicitly used what is now known as Descartes' rule of signs.
On 1 June 1509 the first printed edition was published in Venice by Paganino Paganini; it has since been reprinted several times.
This rectangle can then be partitioned into a square and a similar rectangle and this rectangle can then be split in the same way.
The affine group will be the subgroup respecting (mapping to itself, not fixing pointwise) the chosen hyperplane at infinity.
In geometry, tetrahedron packing is the problem of arranging identical regular tetrahedra throughout three-dimensional space so as to fill the maximum possible fraction of space.
{\displaystyle \theta =\pm 2\arctan \left({\sqrt {\frac {1-C}{1+C}}}\right).} This formula represents four solutions, corresponding to the two choices of the sign of θ, and the two choices for C.
(The reference "Rsine-differences 225" is an allusion to Aryabhata's sine table.) In modern mathematical notations, for an angle x in degrees, this formula gives sin ⁡ x ∘ ≈ 4 x ( 180 − x ) 40500 − x ( 180 − x ) .
One of these students, Johannes Hudde provided a convenient method for determining double roots of a polynomial, known as Hudde's rule, that had been a difficult procedure in Descartes's method of tangents.
Accuracy of the correction terms Let s i = 1 − 1 3 + 1 5 − 1 7 + ⋯ + ( − 1 ) n − 1 1 2 n − 1 + ( − 1 ) n F i ( n ) {\displaystyle s_{i}=1-{\frac {1}{3}}+{\frac {1}{5}}-{\frac {1}{7}}+\cdots +(-1)^{n-1}{\frac {1}{2n-1}}+(-1)^{n}F_{i}(n)} .
It follows that the original angle is trisected by the line PE, and the line PD perpendicular to SE and passing through P.
Each intersection of edges sections the edges in the golden ratio: the ratio of the length of the edge to the longer segment is ⁠ φ {\displaystyle \varphi } ⁠, as is the length of the longer segment to the shorter.
History The lute is named after the ancient Greek mathematician Pythagoras, but its origins are unclear.
{\displaystyle \triangle ABC\sim \triangle BCD.} Therefore, both triangles △ACD, △BCD are similar to △ABC and themselves, i.e.
For a positive integer N, an angle of measure ⁠2π/N⁠ is trisectible if and only if 3 does not divide N.
Complaints by him are made with regard to troubles caused by billeted soldiers with their two wives and a child, who reside at the borg due to the Eighty Years' War.
The first few values are 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4, 5, 5, 5, 6, 6, 6, 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12 (sequence A001462 in the OEIS).
The encircled pentagram (referred to as a pentacle by the plaintiffs) was added to the list of 38 approved religious symbols to be placed on the tombstones of fallen service members at Arlington National Cemetery on 24 April 2007.
Therefore Q is a polynomial with integer coefficients in elementary symmetric polynomials of the above variables, for every i, and in the variables yi.
This subgroup has a known structure (semidirect product of the general linear group of degree n with the subgroup of translations).
Then the ratio a b {\displaystyle {\frac {a}{b}}} corresponds to the golden ratio Φ {\displaystyle \Phi } if and only if the annulus and the ellipse have the same area.
Two concepts that can be used to analyze this triangle, the Pythagorean theorem and the golden ratio, were both of interest to Kepler, as he wrote elsewhere: Geometry has two great treasures: one is the theorem of Pythagoras, the other the division of a line into extreme and mean ratio.
A golden ellipse is an ellipse in which the aspect ratio of its two semi-axes a {\displaystyle a} and b {\displaystyle b} corresponds to the golden ratio.
In programming languages and calculators The following table documents various programming languages that have implemented the circle constant for converting between turns and radians.
He also discovered the law of sines for spherical trigonometry: sin ⁡ A sin ⁡ a = sin ⁡ B sin ⁡ b = sin ⁡ C sin ⁡ c .
Tschirnhaus, which can be used for squaring the circle, the construction of a square with the area of a given circle.
In the latter case, no point on either of the two lines has real coordinates except for the origin [0 : 0 : 1].
He was apparently the only one of the contemporary Poles to know elements of the newly invented calculus.
Quadratrix of Tschirnhaus The quadratrix of Tschirnhaus is constructed by dividing the arc and radius of a quadrant in the same number of equal parts as before.
Therefore, the ratio must be the unique positive solution to this equation, the golden ratio, and the triangle must be a Kepler triangle.
Trattato dell'architettura The second part, Trattato dell'architettura (Treatise on Architecture), discusses the ideas of Vitruvius (from his De architectura) on the application of mathematics to architecture in twenty chapters.
In a paper published in 1990, a group of three Japanese researchers proposed an ingenious method by which Madhava might have obtained the three correction terms.
{\displaystyle 0<\int _{0}^{1}{\frac {x^{4}\left(1-x\right)^{4}}{1+x^{2}}}\,dx={\frac {22}{7}}-\pi .} Therefore, ⁠22/7⁠ > π.
The planes deliberately flew over the headquarters of NASA Ames, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, University of California at Berkeley, Stanford University, Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Apple.
In 1829, Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky published an account of acute geometry in an obscure Russian journal (later re-published in 1840 in German).
Some sources add another pentagram, inscribed within the inner pentagon of the largest pentagram of the figure.
Arabic speakers writing in Greek would often mistakenly assume the other sense of the word was intended, and would translate the phrase back into Arabic using the word for 'bride'.
See also Hindu units of measurement Indian science and technology Adityas References Bibliography Gangooly, Phanindralal (1989).
The negative root is its negative inverse ⁠ − 1 / φ {\displaystyle -1/\varphi } ⁠, with which it shares many properties.
Barrow: Pi in the Sky: Counting, Thinking, and Being ISBN 9780198539568 External links Map showing planned route of aircraft ISHKY website AirSign website
From 1994 to 2012, the fine dining restaurant Schathoes Verhildersum of chef Dick Soek was housed in the building.
History The Kepler triangle is named after the German mathematician and astronomer Johannes Kepler (1571–1630), who wrote about this shape in a 1597 letter.
In addition to the main restriction, the author attempts to mimic portions, or entire works, of different types and pieces of literature ("The Raven", "Jabberwocky", the lyrics of Yes, "The Love Song of J.
WSL has its own method of measuring the height of a wave and has partnered with Guinness World Records to award world record certificates.
Active franchises Regular season Play-in tournament During the 2020 NBA Bubble, the NBA introduced a play-in tournament in the 2019–20 NBA season to compensate for the suspension of the regular season and a difference in the number of games played between teams, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The defunct Portland Fire are the only WNBA franchise to have never qualified for the playoffs, meaning they rank as the team with the fewest playoff games played, wins, and losses (all at 0).
Use of the term "public capacity" indicates that a venue is allowed to hold more people than it can actually seat.
The following is a list of the all-time records for each of the 32 active National Hockey League (NHL) teams, beginning with the first NHL season (1917–18), with regular season stats accurate as of the end the 2024–25 season, and playoff stats accurate as of the end of the 2025 Stanley Cup playoffs.
Active streaks WNBA Playoffs appearance streaks This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons with a playoff appearance.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) and International Paralympic Committee (IPC) do NOT combine medals of these nations or teams.
Below are some claims of surfed waves that were/are not yet recognized by WSL: Alessandro "Alo" Slebir - On 23 December 2024, Slebir rode an estimated 108 foot (32.9 m) tall wave at Mavericks, California, which would exceed the current world record by over 20 feet.
In mixed doubles, Billie Jean King teamed with Davidson for the last three events of his 1967 Grand Slam and completed the non-consecutive Grand Slam the next year with Dick Crealy.
Field hockey and indoor field hockey Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The teams and individuals which compete in these tournaments may also have competed in qualifying tournaments.
Since then, best times set by swimmers wearing textile materials have once again overtaken more than half of the world records recognized by World Aquatics.
Pythagorean expectation is a sports analytics formula devised by Bill James to estimate the percentage of games a baseball team "should" have won based on the number of runs they scored and allowed.
The two feuded with each other, which culminated in a match at Halloween Havoc for Sid's United States Heavyweight Championship.
Studies in sports management suggest that some managers are able to prolong winning streaks through managerial strategies.
The European Athletics Indoor Cup, held from 2003 to 2008, is the highest level indoor track and field competition to have used a placing table system.
In some cases the official attendance figure released by clubs and/or their league may reflect the ticket sell through rather than the number of people in attendance on the night, this can result in a discrepancy of many thousands of attendees per event.
Existing stadiums, most notably Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton and BC Place in Vancouver, have undergone major upgrades.
WNBA Playoffs series win streaks This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons with a playoff series win.
The recognition of the junior classification and subsequent record keeping began in 1962 for men and 1995 for women.
^6 It was not an official world record, but the best result, equal to the world record until then, and the Asian record in that period.
During the current decade, new stadiums have been constructed for the Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Ottawa Redblacks, and Winnipeg Blue Bombers, all with modern amenities and capacities of between one quarter and one half the capacity of an average NFL stadium.
vs Toronto, Aug 12, 1993)** 586 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Oct 16, 1954)** 582 – Doug Flutie (for B.C.
Hollywood Hogan eventually granted Goldberg a title match, which would take place on the July 6, 1998, episode of Nitro held at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta with over 40,000 in attendance, but Hogan insisted that Goldberg first had to defeat his nWo stablemate Scott Hall.
This system is most commonly found in the sport of athletics: both the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) and European Athletics release placing tables for the major championships they organise.
WNBA championship title droughts a The Dallas Wings last won a championship in the 2008 WNBA Finals as the Detroit Shock.
Rugby union, rugby sevens and rugby league Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Where seating capacity is a legal requirement, however, as it is in movie theatres and on aircraft, the law reflects the fact that the number of people allowed in should not exceed the number who can be seated.
As accurate through the end of the 2025 NBA Finals, the Lakers have the most NBA playoffs games played (787), wins (466), losses (321) and highest playoff winning percentage with 466–321 (.592).
Although not a fan of professional wrestling, he saw it as an alternative to his fledgling football career and began training at the WCW Power Plant.
Regular season Key: Midseason tournaments The following listing does not include qualifying matches and is accurate as of the end of the 2021 regular season.
The purpose was to reduce the number of illegal flat landings, but a side-effect was to reduce the distance travelled.
The following articles list major achievements in team sports and individual sports by nation: Team sport *Sports (and forms of a sport) shown in bold are currently on the program of the Olympic Games.
Presidents' Trophy droughts This is a list of the teams and the number of seasons since they have won the Presidents' Trophy as the regular season champions.
Such calculations are the basis of many of the various tie-breaking systems used in Swiss-system tournaments in chess and other tabletop games.
The Montreal Maroons recorded the most wins (271), while the New York Americans had the most points (637), and the original Ottawa Senators had the highest point percentage (.514).
Computing games behind Games behind is calculated by using either of the following formulas, in which Team A is a leading team, and Team B is a trailing team.
The International Fire Code, portions of which have been adopted by many jurisdictions, is directed more towards the use of a facility than the construction.
In 1998, an online gaming ladder called Clanbase was launched, which used the Elo scoring system to rank teams.
Of the WNBA's eight inaugural teams, four remain active: the Las Vegas Aces, Los Angeles Sparks, New York Liberty, and the Phoenix Mercury.
World records Men * The average speed for the team pursuit race was calculated using a distance of 3098,88 meters for the men's race.
Aside from the WNBA Playoff appearance streaks, this list also includes the WNBA Finals appearance streak and the WNBA championships win streak.
Results See also List of major achievements in sports by nation References Sports123: Inline Hockey (archived) Sports123: Roller Hockey (archived)
FIDE uses the following ranges: FIDE used the following ranges before July 2014: The gradation of the K-factor reduces rating change at the top end of the rating range, reducing the possibility for rapid rise or fall of rating for those with a rating high enough to reach a low K-factor.
** unofficial world best (not recognized as a world record by ISU) Women ** The average speed for the team pursuit race was calculated using a distance of 2324,16 meters for the women's race.
These are (in descending order): FC Barcelona from Spain, Borussia Dortmund from Germany, Bayern München from Germany, Manchester United from the United Kingdom and AC Milan from Italy.
Through the 2001 iteration of the ESPY Awards, ceremonies were conducted in February of each year to honor achievements over the previous calendar year; awards presented thereafter are conferred in June and reflect performance from the June previous.
Also, unlike most other football codes that award three points for a win, the CFL still uses the traditional values of two points for a win and one for a tie.
These records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts.
This was the first noted use of disc wheels, which, along with Moser's skin suit, provided aerodynamic gains.
Field hockey Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
They are the best results set in competition by athletes aged 15 to 20 throughout the entire calendar year of the performance.
Athletes must score at least 7000 points in a decathlon in order to have their performance recognised.
Use The now defunct BCS previously used the SOS in its formula to determine which teams will play in BCS Bowls, and more importantly, to the BCS National Championship Game.
See also List of major achievements in sports by nation Notes References General Official results: Statistics of the International Luge Federation FIL Specific External links International Luge Federation (FIL) – official website
Many gamblers are attracted to sports gambling because of the plethora of information and analytics that are at their disposal when making decisions.
In regards to playoff win–loss records, the Minnesota Lynx have the highest winning percentage, with a 53–35 (.602) record.
During the fourth quarter, having already passed for 555 yards and four scores, Wilson was benched with his team leading 31–8.
Key: Season playoffs The following listing does not include play-in tournaments and is accurate as of the end of the 2021 Overwatch League playoffs.
The Spurs' only regular-season home loss occurred on April 10, 2016, to the Golden State Warriors by the score of 92–86.
This type of event is unknown within European nations, except in basketball; many European domestic leagues in that sport hold an all-star game at roughly the midpoint of the regular season.
There are currently 13 teams that play in the WNBA, and there are also six defunct WNBA teams accounted for in the league's win–loss records.
Artificial and natural track events All competitive disciplines *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
After failing to make progress on K2 the Duke led an attempt on Chogolisa, where they reached a height of approximately 7,500 m (24,600 ft) before turning around just 150 m below the summit due to bad weather and the risk of falling through a cornice in poor visibility.
The 2024-25 NBA regular season featured 20 scorigamis, including a 145–111 win by the Oklahoma City Thunder over the Utah Jazz on April 11, 2025.
Men Women Historical records Men (2018–2025) Men (1998–2018) ^1 The IWF website still lists Nijat Rahimov (Kazakhstan) record of 214 kg in the clean and jerk, which was later disqualified for doping.
Wild card race In the 1994 MLB season, the American League and National League each split into three divisions, and each added a wild card team to the playoffs.
Actually, there is a probability of a draw that is dependent on the performance differential, so this latter is more of a confidence interval than any deterministic frontier.
Bois and other media observers noted the tendency of the Seattle Seahawks under former head coach Pete Carroll to create scorigamis; Bois dubbed Carroll "the wizard of modern Scorigami, without question".
Many of them played in the NHL eras between the ceasing of the National Hockey Association in 1918 and the beginning of the NHL's Original Six era.
Now, pitchers can study the upcoming lineup they are going to face and focus on tendencies of the batter, such as where they stand on the plate, what pitches they tend to chase, and what part of the field they like to hit.
For players with ratings below 2000, winning a cash prize of $2,000 or more raises that player's rating floor to the closest 100-point level that would have disqualified the player for participation in the tournament.
Conversely, the Cleveland Cavaliers, Los Angeles Clippers, Charlotte Hornets and San Antonio Spurs have the worst NBA play-in tournament record, having each lost both of their two games.
Two other Broncos Super Bowl losses, Super Bowl XXI (39–20 to the Giants) and Super Bowl XXIV (55–10 to the 49ers), are also examples of the concept.
In sports, a scorigami (a portmanteau of score and origami) is a final score that has never happened before in a sport or league's history.
First-order wins, based on pure run differential, are the number of expected wins generated by the "pythagenport" formula (see above).
In motion picture venues, the "limit of seating capacity is determined by the maximal viewing distance for a given size of screen", with image quality for closer viewers declining as the screen is expanded to accommodate more distant viewers.
Last time that all Canadian teams qualified for the playoffs: 1985–86 Last time that no Canadian teams qualified for the playoffs: 2015–16 Last all-Canadian first-round series: 2024–25 (Toronto vs.
The 2018 and 2019 seasons contained four and three stage playoffs (midseason tournaments), respectively, throughout the regular season.
British cyclist Joss Lowden set a new world record on 30 September 2021 with a distance of 48.405 km (30.077 mi), beating the previous record by just under 400 metres, and also surpassing Jeannie Longo's Best Human Effort distance.
The NCAA championships listed here are all composed of several separate conferences with varying attendance levels.
In that time, at least a further eleven players matched the feat of scoring a try for England before William Hutchinson scored his second try of the match and his career in the eleventh England match on 5 February 1877.
†Sports (and forms of a sport) shown in italic are currently on the program of the Paralympic Games.
Many of the world records in swimming were established by swimmers wearing bodysuits or suits made of polyurethane or other non-textile materials allowed in the race pool from February 2008 until December 2009.
Indoor handball, beach handball and field handball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Beach handball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Netball Commonwealth Bank Trophy The Commonwealth Bank Trophy was the main national netball competition in Australia from 1997 to 2007.
On the eve of the 2009 FINA World Championships in Rome, the international governing body for five Olympic aquatic sports voted to ban the use of bodysuits and all suits made of non-textile materials starting 1 January 2010.
This limited scheduling makes strength of schedule a relevant metric for breaking ties, if primary tiebreakers such as head-to-head records do not break a tie.
Active and all-time National Hockey League (NHL) franchise post-season appearance, post-season series win, Stanley Cup Final and Stanley Cup droughts up to and including the 2025 Stanley Cup playoffs, are listed below.
A typical system awards a decreasing number of points for the top eight finishers, with eight points for first place, down to one point for eighth place.
Another advantage is that placing tables are less affected by post-competition doping disqualifications, as reassignment of a points score is a simple technical adjustment compared to the minting and re-presentation of physical medals.
With the exception of the Arizona Coyotes, all now defunct NHL franchises folded prior to the advent of the NHL's overtime loss feature.
This is a list of Canadian Football League regular season records that stand as of the end of the 2025 CFL season.
The tries scored in this match brought both players to six apiece, but as to which of these players reached that mark first is unclear.
World Aquatics recognizes world records in the following events for both men and women, except for the mixed relays, where teams consist of two men and two women, in any order.
Early years The progression begins with Reg Birkett's try, scored in the first international rugby match of any code in 1871 when England succumbed to Scotland at Raeburn Place.
Aside from the best results achieved at the world championships for each variation, also included are results from the World Games and the World Roller Games.
Unbeaten streaks are still considered significant achievements and their length may be compared directly to winning streaks.
The fact that accurate formulas for variable exponents yield larger exponents as the total runs per game increases is thus in agreement with an understanding of the role that chance plays in sports.
