His last concert was in Sydney on July 24, 1943, after which neuritis in his left hand forced him to retire from the concert platform.
He was the author of the text of Arnold Schoenberg's first complete surviving work in hellen Träumen hab ich Dich oft geschaut for voice and piano, composed in the summer of 1893.
A later accounting attributed humanitarian organisations with facilitating the emigration of 12,000 refugees from Czechoslovakia to the United Kingdom in 1938 until the end of 1939.
Joel Brand was dispatched to Istanbul to persuade the Jewish Agency leadership to accept this plan, which came to nothing.
Writing career During the years 1963 to 1965, her husband became the cultural attaché from Israel to the Soviet Union.
1963: "The Life of Clementine Kraemer", New York 1963 & LBI Year Book 9 London 1964 (267–292) 1963: (Ed.) Intermarriage and Jewish Life 1964 (with Alvin Boskoff): Sociology and History: Theory and Research 1969: "The Three Regions of German-Jewish History", in Jubilee.
Resettlement in Alaska would allow the refugees to bypass normal immigration quotas, because Alaska was a territory and not a state.
In 1950, he spent a year in Chicago as a visiting professor at the Institute of Design, which had been founded by László Moholy-Nagy as the "New Bauhaus" together with artists and designers from the Bauhaus who had left Germany at a similar time to Schleger.
Alfred Reynolds (born Reinhold Alfréd; 13 December 1907, Budapest – 23 December 1993, London) was a writer on social and religious topics.
He returned to Israel in 1953 and served as secretary of the Beersheba Workers Council, and was head of Labor Relations in the Ministry of Labour.
Also in this period, Camnitzer produced a series of "object-boxes" in which ordinary items were placed inside wood-framed glass boxes with textually descriptive brass plaques.
However, the whereabouts of most of Agathe and Ernst Saulmann's collection, including art from their villa in Florence, is unknown.
'Our Neighborhood', also 'Fish, Football, and Girls'), a bourekas film with Shaike Ophir, Gabi Amrani, Yona Atari, Tsippi Shavit, and Gadi Yagil among others; Kol Mamzer Melekh (1968) (Hebrew: כל ממזר מלך, lit.
Civita did his college studies in the United States, beginning with nuclear physics at Rice University, Texas, but gave up the subject when he realized that it was not his calling.
(1931) His Majesty and Company (1935) References External links Free scores by Wilhelm Grosz at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP)
She also continued her vocal studies under new instructors, including Rhea Silberta, Sebastian Engelberg and Olga Ryss.
Early life Rivka Basman was born in Vilkmergė, Lithuania on 20 February 1925, to parents Yekhezkel and Tsipora (née Heyman).
In 1990, at the age of 79, he appeared in Series 2, Episode 7 of Poirot, "The Kidnapped Prime Minister," as Mr.
The government alleged the IRC failed to maintain adequate oversight over procurement in Turkey for humanitarian assistance to refugees in Syria.
He attempted to immigrate to Mandatory Palestine, but was captured by the British authorities and sent to one of the Cyprus internment camps in 1947, where he became a member of the High Committee.
In that time nearly eighteen thousand Righteous had been honored and had been able to plant a tree in the avenue dedicated to remembering them and their gestures at Yad Vashem.
Awards and recognition In 1958, Youth Aliyah was awarded the Israel Prize for its contribution to education, being the first year in which the Prize was awarded to an organization.
Notable stage acts HaTarnegolim (1960–1963) HaGashash HaHiver (1963–2000) Yeshayahu Chapter 2 (2005) HaGashash HaHiver shows "Simhat Zkenti" (Nov.
Zweig studied philosophy at the University of Vienna, and in 1904 earned a doctoral degree with a thesis on "The Philosophy of Hippolyte Taine".
On November 26, 1942, Hasvoll woke up the children of the orphanage early telling them to wear 2 pairs of their finest clothing, including underwear, socks, jackets, etc.
Booth Gardner appointed Pekelis to the Washington Court of Appeals, a position to which she was also later re-elected; in total, she served on that court for nine years.
5; a fraszka or bagatelle, epigram: see fraszka) "Ojcze nasz" ("Our Father"; Wiadomości: tygodnik (London), vol.
She was renamed Orphir in 1931, and then sold to William Marshall of Glasgow for conversion to a salvage ship under the same name.
Louis was turned away from the United States, a group of academics and clergy in Canada tried to persuade Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King to provide sanctuary to the passengers.
After the couple settled in New York City, in 1940, Rebecca Tcherikower worked as an archivist at the new YIVO headquarters (YIVO Institute for Jewish Research).
He then moved to Moscow and joined the research group of Nikolai Nikolaevich Luzin at Moscow State University.
Pending publication of the Freud/Minna correspondence for the period 1893–1910, the truth behind such speculations may not be known for sure.
Between 1960 and 1966, he continued studying physics at the Weizmann Institute, completing his master's degree, and working towards a doctorate.
His mother described him as a "rambunctious kid"; inspired by Buffalo Bill's Wild West shows, which she saw while living briefly in New York, she nicknamed him "Billie", which he changed to "Billy" upon moving to America.
In 1969, Solti became music director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, a post he held for 22 years.
After the Nazi invasion of Denmark this placed them in danger; it was illegal at the time to send gold out of Germany, and were it discovered that Laue and Franck had done so, they could have faced prosecution.
He was active in Austria between 1920 and 1936, during which time he worked on about 30 feature films.
Cavaco argues that the author's works on this subject can be read as a trilogy, in which this historical event is represented.
There she married her colleague Frederic Littman, and together they moved to New York in 1940, where they had their first solo exhibition.
Abramovitch emigrated from Soviet Russia in 1920, landing in Berlin, where he was a co-founder of the long-running Menshevik journal The Socialist Courier.
During the 1929 Palestine riots and the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine, he was an active member of the Haganah Jerusalem.
SS Quanza was a World War II-era Portuguese passenger-cargo ship, best known for carrying 317 people, many of them refugees, from Nazi-occupied Europe to North America in 1940.
In 1998 Di Giuseppe's heirs sued the Louvre for five artworks in a lawsuit known as Gentili di Giuseppe Heirs v.
Awards In 1979, she received the Margalit Award for Outstanding Actress for her performance in The Plough and the Stars and the Actress of the Year Award for the role in Fantasy on a Romantic Theme the following year.
Camnitzer works primarily in sculpture, printmaking, and installation, exploring topics such as repression, institutional critique, and social justice.
Steiner remained in England because "I'd do anything rather than face such contempt from my father." He was elected an Extraordinary Fellow of Churchill College in 1969.
In 1967, Land was selected for a newly established post in what later became the Department of Information Systems at LSE.
During the hyperinflation, after the departure of the Quakers who helped to ensure the food supply in Cologne after the First World War, she organized the food distribution in the Association for Child Feeding in the City Association to provide food to needy families.
Partnering with the Polish trade union movement Solidarity in 1987, the IRC began a health care program in Poland.
The children were then driven to Sweden by members of the resistance movement including Martin Solvang.
His wife's family were later able to bribe the Gestapo and have Fürnberg deported to Italy where he was reunited with his wife as 1939 turned into 1940.
Rabbi Yerucham of Dubrov, his namesake, was close to the Beis HaLevi, and earned the nickname, "Rav Yerucham Charif" (the Sharp One).
He was also Israel's first Minister of Postal Services, though he only held the post for less than two months.
The Philippine-Israel Friendship Park within the Quezon Memorial Circle in Quezon City has a monument which commemorates Israel–Philippines relations.
Awarded the International Arbiter title, he was a Head Referee in the 23rd Chess Olympiad, and in the 8th Women's Chess Olympiad, both at Buenos Aires 1978.
Academic career During World War II, Radzinowicz established the Department of Criminal Science in the Faculty of Law at the University of Cambridge.
She is best known for her autobiographical novel, Nirgendwo in Afrika (Nowhere in Africa) (1995), which was a bestseller in Germany.
Over the years, the organization has brought young people to Israel from North Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Soviet Union and Ethiopia.
{{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) External links "IEEE Medal Of Honor Recipients, 1973" (PDF).
Early career Fraenkel's first job was as an accounts clerk for the registrar of co-operative societies.
The Reich Citizenship Law of November 1941 which had stripped him of his nationality only made him more determined not to yield it - 'To give up my German passport would have been to give in to Hitler.
In October 1983, Hampton came to the Elliott's New York apartment saying he was the son of Sidney Poitier and a friend of her daughter Marit, and needed a place to stay.
Together with his son-in-law Rezső Kasztner (or Rudolf Kastner), he took part in the organization of the Kastner train mission.
Sperber's last appearance in the West End was in a 1984 production of The Clandestine Marriage at the Albany Theatre; he spent his last years travelling Britain, giving readings from the works of his brother, writer Manès Sperber.
Meanwhile, many Hungarian Jews continued to believe in their own safety, despite deepening antisemitism in the country.
Zvi Henryk Zimmerman (Hebrew: צבי הנריק צימרמן; born 2 January 1913, died 10 June 2006) was a Zionist activist, jurist, and Israeli politician.
After the war, Peierls returned to the University of Birmingham, where he worked until 1963, and then was the Wykeham Professor of Physics and a Fellow of New College at the University of Oxford until he retired in 1974.
2010s Following the Haiti earthquake in January 2010, the IRC deployed its Emergency Response Team to Haiti to deliver help to Port-au-Prince.
He joined the Faculty of the University of Manchester, where he did some of his best-known work, establishing the foundations of optical coherence theory.
In 1941, he succeeded, with the help of Turkish friends, to immigrate to Istanbul with his wife and daughters.
Hedwig Frida Ullmann, née Nathan, (born 2 November 1872 in Frankfurt am Main, Germany; died 1945, Melbourne, Australia) was a German Jewish art collector and refugee.
However, it became necessary for the family to leave again and, in the 1939, they arrived in Vancouver, British Columbia.
Djanogly, who is estimated to be worth £300 million, made his fortune from the merger of his Nottingham Manufacturing Company with other textile interests in 1986 to form Coats Viyella.
Also, the Nazi government urgently needed hard currency from abroad, and Leitz's single biggest market for optical goods was the United States.
He assisted Delmer in forging copies of Krafft's magazine Zenit, German, and other astrological magazines dropped over Germany, and 'foretelling' the destruction of U-boats.
Following the German invasion of France he emigrated to America, working in Hollywood where he was credited as Arnold Phillips.
During her childhood, she survived the Holocaust by hiding with her family in a crawlspace beneath the home of a Polish Catholic family for two and a half years.
The Service allowed Hart Dyke access to enable him to undertake the project, sending him on hostile environment courses to allow him to work in dangerous parts of the world, and admitting him into their Vauxhall Cross headquarters.
This was a means for him to stay in constant communication with the Italian partisans and allowed him to communicate secret instructions for the surrender of the Italian Navy in Malta.
In 1890 he began to study jurisprudence and philosophy under Friedrich Jodl, and Anton Marty, who introduced him to Franz Brentano's philosophy.
He was a prominent Jewish banker who escaped Nazi Germany and emigrated to the United States during World War II.
A Visual Autobiography, Hyphen Press, London 2010 Sophie Hochhäusl: Otto Neurath – City Planning: Proposing a Socio-Political Map for Modern Urbanism, Innsbruck University Press, 2011 ISBN 978-3-902-81107-3.
Concerned by the approaching threat of Nazi Germany, he escaped to England in 1938, a year before the outbreak of World War II.
Biography Early life and World War II Lau was born on 1 June 1937, in the Polish town of Piotrków Trybunalski.
In his retirement, he was made a distinguished visiting professor for life at the University of Chicago and held fellowships at All Souls College, Oxford and Peterhouse, Cambridge.
label: Arbiter; Release date 28 February 2006; Katalognr.: 147; enthält auf CD 2 Aufnahmen mit Andreas Weissgerber: track 17 : Violin Sonata In C, K.
In the 2011 Spanish TV film series, El ángel de Budapest (The angel of Budapest), also set during Wallenberg's time in Hungary in 1944, he is portrayed by actor László Agárdi.
On January 24, 1949, the British began sending these detainees to Israel, with the last of them departing for Israel on February 11, 1949.
In 1933 Mylonas sold her to a Bulgarian owner, Dimiter Kenkov, who renamed her Makedoniya, based her in the port of Varna and used her to carry cattle on the River Danube.
His father was the founder of the Budapest telephone company, and his paternal grandfather, also Joel Brand, had owned the post office in Munkács (now Mukacheve, Ukraine).
Writings YU Torah Online: Letter to Rabbi Yechiel Michel Charlap Notes References "The Excellent Saint and the Rosh Yeshivah" an appreciation of Rabbi Avrohom Aharon Shatzkes and Rabbi Yerucham Gorelick of blessed memory by Dr.
In partnership with communities and institutions, the IRC works to empower communities to lead efforts that challenge beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors that perpetuate or condone violence against women and girls.
CD “EUGEN D'ALBERT (1864–1932)” by Symposium Records, 4, Arden Close, Overstrand, North Norfolk NR27 0PH, U.K.
In March 1939, all of his assets in Germany were blocked and on August 4, 1941, the Reich Minister of the Interior revoked his German citizenship and his property was confiscated.
Wrecks Struma In July 2000, a Turkish diving team found a wreck on the sea floor in about the right place and announced that it had found Struma.
He was Austrian national champion in the 200m juniors in 1932, the 400m in 1936, the 4x100m relay in 1937, and the 4x400m relay in 1934 and 1937.
Following the rise of the Nazi Party to power in 1933 she fled into exile with her Jewish husband, director Max Nosseck.
Moshe's daughter, Esti Dunow (born in 1948) is a painter and art historian, expert on the work of the painter Chaïm Soutine, co-author of the Chaïm Soutine Catalogue Raisonne.
Emanuel Theodore Bronner (born Emanuel Heilbronner; February 1, 1908 – March 7, 1997) was the founder of Dr.
The copyright representative for the Foundation and Seligmann's estate is the Artists Rights Society.
ISBN 963-9116-37-8 Löb, Ladislaus, Dealing with Satan: Rezső Kasztner's Daring Rescue Mission, Jonathan Cape, 2008.
Lichtenthaler: Ein Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut für Köln : Emil Fischer, Konrad Adenauer und die Meirowsky-Stiftung, in: Angewandte Chemie, Volume 115, Issue 7, 17.
The Holocaust Northern Transylvania, including Cluj, was ceded by Romania to Hungary in the Second Vienna Award in September 1940.
Turner in which the illustrations were an integral part of a book, prominently placed together with the words to which they were related, rather than banishing them to the plates section elsewhere the book.
See also National Prize of Plastic Arts of Venezuela References External links Gego in the collection of The Museum of Modern Art Gego – An Artist Described by an Artist, the artist Nathalie David's narrative around creating Gego, a documentary on the painter Gertrud Louise Goldschmidt.
The only countries willing to accept a large number of Jews were the Dominican Republic, which offered to accept up to 100,000 refugees on generous terms, and later Costa Rica.
The United Party government led by Prime Minister Hertzog introduced the Bill in order to restrict and regulate immigration and exercise control over resident aliens.
Career Pekelis was appointed to the King County Superior Court by Dixy Lee Ray, and later re-elected to that position.
[...] He was one of the few in the West actually reading what was being written in the Soviet Union with the recognition that there were still great writers who had stayed behind.
Ottósson also became a leading musicologist; he defended his doctoral dissertation on the Icelandic rhymed office (Reimoffizium) of Saint Thorlak (known in Icelandic as Þorlákstíðir) at the University of Iceland in 1959.
After 1700 American intellectuals paid a large ransom to Adolf Eichmann, Szondi, his family, and other prominent intellectuals were released to Switzerland in December 1944, where Szondi continued to live after the war.
In the 1980s, Momigliano and fellow historian Carlo Ginzburg leveled heavy criticism against French philologist Georges Dumézil, whom they charged with being a fascist opposed to "Judeo-Christian" society.
Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis played musicians disguised as women to escape pursuit by a Chicago gang.
In The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp (1943) he played the role of the dashing, intense military officer Theo Kretschmar-Schuldorff, a sympathetic German refugee from the Nazi regime.
Chananyah was the great-grandson of Moshe Teitelbaum, a disciple of the Seer of Lublin, who was, in turn, one of the main promulgators of Hasidism in Hungary.
The owner was called Moritz Lewin and had his business premises in Berlin at Friedrichstrasse 208 and Grenadierstrasse 28, cf.
With much outside help, notably from Avraham Kalmanowitz and Japanese consul Chiune Sugihara, the Mir Yeshiva left Lithuania before the Nazi occupation and via Russia and Japan, resettled in Japanese-occupied Shanghai, where he studied with Chaim Shmuelevitz.
He moved with his mother to Mandatory Palestine in 1944, after his father had been abducted by the fascist movement of Francisco Franco and was never seen again.
Glassware production After returning to civilian life, Guéron settled in Compiègne, where Armistice of 11 November 1918 was signed, and founded his Cristalleries De Compiègne glassworks.
He was chairman of the International Advisory Council of the Harvard School of Public Health's AIDS Initiative, and was an honorary trustee and an honorary member of the corporation of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
Aliens Act 1 of 1937 was a South African law aimed at curtailing Jewish immigration to South Africa just as it was increasing due to increased anti-Semitic repression in Nazi Germany.
The IRC affiliate Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children became the Women's Refugee Commission in 2009.
Based on his ideas on law and duty, he developed a juristic hermeneutics in the field of jurisprudence, and criticized historism and positivism.
She headed the Jewish Women's League in Cologne (Jüdischen Frauenbund), the Sisterhood of the Rhineland and Moriahloge, and the Jewish People's Kitchen, which she helped to found in 1919.
His national and international fame has inspired many Hungarian playwrights, including Elemér Boross, László Fodor, Lajos Bíró, László Bús-Fekete, Ernő Vajda, Attila Orbók, and Imre Földes, among others.
Rabbi Meir, the eldest, was murdered in Treblinka, along with all of his offspring and their children, all perished.
Breslauer soon separated from De Marez Oijens, began working in Berlin, and raised her daughter alone.
Although many of his followers suggested Joel succeed his brother, the custom prevailed, and the boy was given his father's three posts.
Though he became professor of physics at Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois, he never published again.
In 1974, shortly after founding the International Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases in Nairobi, he died from liver cancer in Washington, D.C.
Meanwhile, in 1947 Fried married Maria Englehardt, who was actively committed to social work, and they were to establish an art school within the Hudson Guild, a charitable organisation in West 25 Street.
Upon his return to Zagreb, Licht managed to get his identity document back and soon escaped to Slovenia.
He was then committed to the Elgin Mental Health Center, a mental hospital in Elgin, Illinois, from which he escaped after shock treatments.
Topics covered included using hybrids with teratomas to explore determination and differentiation (e.g.
Among his students were, the medievalist Ernst Kantorowicz, the Jewish historian of religion Gershom Scholem and the orientalist Franz Babinger.
At the economic level, a policy of Aryanization was carried out - the transfer of property into the hands of people of German origin.
Many of Bronner's references came from Jewish and Christian sources, such as the Shema and the Beatitudes; others from writers such as Rudyard Kipling and Thomas Paine.
Biography Born in Chernivtsi in Romania (today in Ukraine), Badian became a member of the Romanian Zionist Movement.
Ezer was elected in 1931 to the 3rd Assembly of Representatives (Mandatory Palestine) ("Asefat Hanivcharim") representing the Revisionist Party of Ze'ev Jabotinsky, and later served as chief adviser on tourism for the first government of Israel.
The Reichsvereinigung was placed under the direct authority of the Reich Security Main Office (RSHA) and was tasked with organising and supporting emigration, as well as collecting levies from wealthier Jews to fund the departure of those without means.
His research was used to support Ernest Jones in his debate with Bronislaw Malinowski over the existence of the Oedipus complex in matrilineal societies.
In Munich, Solti achieved critical and popular success, but for political reasons, his position at the State Opera was never secure.
After the marriage was over, she pursued an academic career, becoming a professor of English at the University of Toronto.
His property Waldstraße 22/28 in Berlin-Reinickendorf was subject to a forced sale to Norddeutsche Dornier-Werke Wismar in 1938.
See also List of Israel Prize recipients Nehemiah Levanon (1915–2003), Nativ operative in the USSR Notes References Raviv, Dan; Melman, Yossi (1990).
He was then employed as a court assessor in Stuttgart, then as a lawyer at the Higher Regional Court.
The company's repertory in the 1960s combined the standard operatic works with less familiar pieces.
From 1925 to 1930 he was an editor of the local journal "Tomaszower Wokhenblat", published in Yiddish.
He was then involved in developing the overall plan for Milton Keynes, which won the government's competition to plan the new town.
She met the South African-born neurologist Victor Dubowitz on Easter 1960; they were engaged two weeks later and married within three months.
References External links Literature by and about Andreas Weißgerber in the German National Library catalogue
Darius taught at Mills College (in California) and Madeleine taught American students about French and French theatre.
Born of Jewish descent in French-controlled Tunisia, he moved to Paris where he found work in the film industry, introducing Charlie Chaplin to French audiences.
Although he failed to win a seat, he entered the Knesset on 17 January 1966 as a replacement for Moshe Carmel, who had given up his seat after being appointed Minister of Transport.
Artur Semyonovich Berger (German: Arthur Berger, Russian: Артур Семёнович Бергер; 27 May 1892 – 11 January 1981) was an Austrian-Soviet film architect and set designer.
Lilly Flohr (born Elisabeth Günsburger; 15 October 1893 – 7 July 1978) was an Austrian stage and film actress and singer who worked in the German film industry during the silent era.
The number of Jews rescued is not taken into account and a criterion for recognition is that the rescuer took great risks.
Simcha Friedman (Hebrew: שמחה פרידמן; 1911 – 5 January 1990) was an Israeli rabbi, educator and politician who served as a member of the Knesset for the National Religious Party in two spells between 1969 and 1977.
California State Government Van der Ryn was appointed California State Architect in the administration of Governor Jerry Brown in the late 1970s.
Growing up in Warsaw, Zames and his family escaped the city at the onset of World War II, and moved to Kobe (Japan), through Lithuania and Siberia, and finally to the Anglo-French International Settlement in Shanghai.
Else Gradenwitz, the boy's mother, was a banker's daughter: she looked out for the women working in the factory and provided a kindergarten for their children.
In February 1954 Josef Dauns sent another letter, this time directly to Viktor Hamburger, in which he spelled out in greater detail the circumstances of his meeting with Rudolf Hamburger.
He retained his father's court on Pinkus Street in Tel Aviv, and established an outreach center there for secular Jewish youth.
Until recently, the number of victims had been estimated at 768, but the current figure is the result of a recent study of six different passenger lists.
The two began their relationship in 1980, five years after the death of Jacqueline Onassis's second husband Aristotle Onassis.
Club career Amsel began his professional career at Békéscsaba 1912 Előre, and after standing out, he arrived at Ferencváros in 1922, where he played most of his career and was Hungarian champion three times, especially in 1931–32 when Ferencváros won all 22 matches of the competition.
Jewish organizations, both mainstream and dissident, ran operations that tried to bring Jews from Europe to Palestine in violation of the immigration rules applied by the British government.
However, it was as a playwright that he made his most significant contribution and how he is best known internationally.
Hartlaub, who after such achievements could be described as unsuitable for the Kunsthalle, which must represent after-art and put the aesthetics of a healthy person in harness." In 1936, Tannenbaum sold his art business to the Dresden art dealer Rudolf Probst.
The company introduced innovative and progressive practices to the British Columbia forest industry such as selective logging, reforestation, improvements in workplace safety and better wages and benefits.
References External links Literature by and about Emil Faktor in the German National Library catalogue Nachlass von Emil Faktor in der Bayerischen Staatsbibliothek
Military career Upon graduating high school in 1944, aged 16, Fuld joined the Palmach, an elite Jewish military force that was working with the British.
There, he contributed to the refinement of the Wassermann test for syphilis, increasing its diagnostic reliability by using a large, stratified human serum sample and applying improved controls.
Ignaz Friedman (born Salomon Izaak Freudmann; Polish: Ignacy Friedman; Yiddish: שְׁלֹמֹה יִצְחָק פֿרײדמאַן; February 13, 1882 – January 26, 1948) was a Polish pianist and composer.
At that time of his discovery perhaps half of all German children suffered from rickets to varying degrees.
Businessman In the journal Theresienstädter Studien und Dokumente, Federer was described as "one of the most important and exciting personalities of the Czechoslovak economy in the interwar period".
Because she was a former naval vessel the newly formed Israeli Navy examined her in 1948 for possible service, but she was not in good shape and was not accepted for service.
Born in the Weimar Republic, she came to Britain with her family in 1935 to escape persecution during the rise of the Nazis.
The appeal court stated that "had the case been heard in England itself, or in most of the territories of the British Empire, the conviction would rightly have been upheld." Later Israeli investigations into the murder disagreed with the court's assessment and concluded that Stavsky was innocent.
Biography Yochanan Bader was born as Jan Bader in Kraków in Austria-Hungary (today Poland), where he studied at a State Gymnasium.
Its difficult manufacturing, due to the many wires within the vacuum tube, meant this was never successful.
Racker left the Public Health Research Institute in 1966 to found the biochemistry department at Cornell University.
The allegations were made in a self-published newsletter, Letter to Friends in the Mizrachi, in August 1952.
Life According to the Kallir Research Institute, Grünwald and Egon Schiele served together in the military, and Grünwald helped obtain a transfer for Schiele in 1917.
Outside of Europe Dominican Republic In July 1938, the Dominican Republic was the only country at the Évian Conference that said it would admit a large number of refugees.
Aluf (Rear Admiral) Shmuel "Shmulik" Tankus (Hebrew: שמואל טנקוס‎; 14 November 1914 – 4 March 2012) was the fifth commander of the Israeli Navy, serving from 30 June 1954 until 1960.
In March 1939, Hitler occupied more of Czechoslovakia, causing a further 180,000 Jews to fall under Axis control, while in May 1939 the British issued the White Paper which barred Jews from entering Palestine or buying land there.
As of 2025, the IRC continues to respond to humanitarian crises in more than 40 countries worldwide, including in Ukraine, Gaza, and Sudan.
In 2013, Britain's first bilingual state school in English and German, the Judith Kerr Primary School in Herne Hill, south London, was named after her.
According to Terdiman, Jews generally viewed the CDE leadership as fully assimilated quasi-Gentiles.
The occasion marked the 70th anniversary of the intended last Kindertransport, which was due to set off on 3 September 1939 but did not because the war had begun.
Körner was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, which had advanced to such a stage that she was given only weeks to live.
He attended the Herzliya Hebrew High School in Tel Aviv, before going on to study law at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, later being certified as a lawyer.
It was Braun-Dusemond's encounters with the German Expressionist, Ludwig Meidner which first inspired him to become a painter.
He lost his seat in the July 1951 elections, but returned to the Knesset on 10 September as a replacement for Moshe Kol.
He relies on the assumption that boundary conditions supply degrees of freedom that, instead of being random, are determined by higher-level realities, whose properties are dependent on but distinct from the lower level from which they emerge.
In 1939, he married Dorothy Kahn, an American journalist who fell in love with the Land of Israel, and the two moved to the Blumenfeld house in Moshav Merhavia.
He then left that to work as an assistant broadcasting officer for Central African Broadcasting Services in Lusaka (1952–57) where he created a fictional mining compound to get development messages across using local actors.
Presidents Max Bodenheimer (1894–1910) Arthur Hantke (1910–1920) Felix Rosenblüth (1920–1923) Alfred Landsberg (1923–1924) Kurt Blumenfeld (1924–1933) Siegfried Moses (1933–1937) Hans Friedenthal, since 1936 per pro == References ==
Following the Nazi invasion of France in 1940, he immigrated to the United States where he continued to work on Hollywood productions including several films noir.
In 1970, La Marzocco patented its first series of professional semi-automatic, dual-boiler machines named GS (Gruppo Saturo, saturated group), winning the Qualità e Cortesia-Toscana prize in 1971.
The small production quantity and the labor involved in production contribute to the coffee's high cost.
History Alfonso Bialetti first acquired his metal-working skills by working for a decade in the French aluminium industry.
Every year on 3 March, Yemenis celebrate the "Yemeni Coffee Day," a national festival to encourage coffee cultivation.
The local culture consists of various, and often quite similar, traditions practiced by the nation's many Cushitic and Ethiopian Semitic-speaking Afro-Asiatic ethnic groups, in addition to those practiced by the area's Nilotic minorities.
Poschetzau ("MCP") (Poschetzau), Max Roesler Feinsteingutfabrik (Rodach, Germany), Hutschenreuther (Selb / Bavaria, Germany), Rosenthal & Co.
Yields of over 22% are considered over-extracted and are often associated with a predominant bitterness – bitter compounds are extracted after acids and sugars have largely dissolved.
Moka coffee characteristics Brewed coffee flavor, including that of a moka pot depends greatly on bean variety, roast level, fineness of grind, water profile, and the level of heat used.
Once released, it then took between three and six minutes for the coffee to drip through the meanwhile settled coffee bed into the coffee pot, a method sometimes also called cake filtration.
As extraction time increases, the risk of unwanted solubles – often associated with overwhelming bitterness – being extracted also increases.
Machines Home espresso machines have increased in popularity with the general rise of interest in espresso.
Metal mugs were produced from bronze, silver, gold, and even lead, starting from roughly 2000 BCE, but were hard to use with hot drinks.
See also Bialetti De'Longhi FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Rancilio Saeco References External links Official website The Benefits of an E61 Group Head
Coffee machine placed only the water in a reservoir above the pot, where it was heated by an electrical element and allowed to "drip" freely through the basket of ground coffee and into a carafe below.
As coffee consumption grew in Italy throughout the 20th century, La Marzocco introduced several technical innovations to its espresso machine designs.
Retrieved 21 September 2023.{{cite news}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) External links Official website
Improvements The method for making coffee in a percolator had changed very little since the introduction of the electric percolator in the early part of the 1900s.
Among the early electrical drip coffee machines was a machine designed by two former Westinghouse engineers and sold under the brand Mr.
The system is designed to remedy the defects of coffee pods which, if not correctly inserted, cause water leakage and alteration of the drink.
The jebenas used in Ethiopia commonly have a spout, whereas those utilized in Eritrea usually do not.
During the same year a feasibility study with the creation of some subsystems was conducted in order to validate the technological choices.
In the Gulf states, qahwa khaleeji (literally "Gulf coffee") is typically has a bright yellow due to the heavy use of saffron and cardamom, and very light roasts.
History and terminology In Vietnamese, vợt means a net or strainer; in this context it refers to the reusable cloth filter used for brewing, and cà phê vợt refers to coffee prepared with that filter.
A tasse à café (French pronunciation: [tɑs‿a kafe], coffee cup) is a cup, generally of white porcelain and of around 120 ml (4 fl oz), in which coffee is served.
Use of reusable cups declined sharply to reduce the chance of infection with the onset of the COVID pandemic in 2020, and as of 2023 had not returned to previous levels.
It is typically brewed in a dallah or cezve, and served in a small cup decorated with a pattern, known as a finjān.
His cockiness provides a stark contrast to the humble obsessiveness of the other four personalities.
Other relevant contributions to the technology used in espresso machines include the cappuccinatore (introduced in 1996) as well as the automatic brewing pressure adaptation "SBS" (1999) and most recently, the announcement of the bluetooth-enabled GranBaristo Avanti (2013).
History Founding Vincent Marotta and Samuel Glazer founded a company in Cleveland, Ohio focused on coffee delivery called North American Systems (NAS) in the early 1970s.
They founded the company in 1992, calling it Keurig; Sylvan later said that the name came from his having "looked up the word excellence in Dutch".
In 1967, the Boston, Massachusetts-based conglomerate Gillette Group acquired a majority share of the company.
companies also began manufacturing the machines in 1947, and by 1955 over 60,000 existed in the U.S.
The decline of the formal tea party led to the disappearance of the sugar tongs, in the 21st century they are considered an oddity at the table in their original role, but had acquired a new meaning: the tongs now represent Englishness (somewhere along with Miss Marple).
Major results Source: 1955 – Faema–Guerra 1956 – Faema–Guerra–Van Hauwaert 1957 – Faema–Guerra 1958 – Faema–Guerra–Clément 1959 – Faema–Guerra 1960 – Faema 1961 – Faema 1962 – Faema 1963 – Faema–Flandria References External links Media related to Faema (cycling team, 1955–1962) at Wikimedia Commons
In 1985, they launched the first completely automatic espresso machine for domestic use, called Superautomatica and in 1999 they bought the historic espresso brand Gaggia.
It subsequently expanded into other kitchen products, such as a related tea maker, juicer, and food dehydrator, and integrated wireless technology into a "smart" version of its coffeemaker.
However, since such vessels are generally filled at most up to the edge of the round part of the flask, an advantageous rise at the neck is then obtained when pouring horizontally.
Die Karlsbader Kanne , 5 teilig, € 99,99 (3911 Arnreith) - willhaben Otruba, Gustav [in German] (1964).
The term “white coffee” in Britain usually means coffee that has some kind of cream or milk added to it, and distinct from “black coffee” which has no dairy components at all.
It uses a reusable cloth filter suspended in a metal ring to steep and strain ground coffee into a pot, producing coffee that is brewed in batches and kept warm for pour-out service.
In 1657, Swedish diplomat Claes Rålamb encountered coffee during a diplomatic mission to Constantinople.
The second model, known as the Elegance Model, was developed to test the mechanical functions of the machine: many of the mechanical components correspond with those used for the flight unit.
Shots were longer and took more time to pull—almost a minute, around twice that of the modern espresso.
The new product was marketed under the Carnation label with the brand name Coffee-Mate and released in 1961, shortly after the commercial introduction of Rich Products' CoffeeRich.
Coffee was introduced to Sweden in the late 17th century, and today coffee plays a significant role in Swedish culture, characterised by Sweden ranking among the world's top coffee consumers per capita, and a distinct tradition of coffee breaks known as Fika.
Achieving desired extraction An extraction yield of 18% to 22% is desirable for most traditional coffee beverages.
Singapore The name kopitiam symbolizes Singapore's multilingual culture: "kopi" is Malay for coffee, while "tiam" is Hokkien (or Fukienese) for shop.
"Application of gas chromatography/flame ionization detector-based metabolite fingerprinting for authentication of Asian palm civet coffee (Kopi Luwak)" (PDF).
Museum In October 2010, the Rancilio family, in partnership with the Rancilio Group, opened the Museo Officina Rancilio 1926 as the official museum of Rancilio coffee machines.
Indonesia In Indonesia, the term white coffee or kopi putih refers to coffee beans which are roasted less than regular coffee beans.
In 2018, India-based Orient Electric partnered with De'Longhi to market small kitchen appliances in India.
The moka pot, also known as the "Italian coffeepot" or the "caffettiera," is a three-chamber design which boils water in the lower section.
Consumer demand for a home-use brewer version increased, but manufacturing a model small enough to fit on a kitchen counter and making them inexpensively enough to be affordable to consumers, took time.
Eugster/Frismag is strictly an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and does not sell under its own brand.
The baristas with the highest scores advance from the first and second rounds, and the barista with the greatest score in the final round wins the title.
The size can be a single, double or triple, using a proportional amount of ground coffee, roughly 7, 14, and 21 grams; correspondingly sized filter baskets are used.
White coffee is black coffee with unheated milk or creamer added to it; this is the most popular way of drinking coffee in the United States.
Taste Because the ground coffee beans in cold-brewed coffee never come into contact with heated water, the process of leaching flavor from the beans produces a chemical profile different from conventional brewing methods.
The original use of pod machines in Italy was to relieve designated office personnel from the tedium of continuous espresso brewing for office staff.
Very finely ground coffee, optionally sugar, and water are placed in a narrow-topped pot, called a cezve (Turkish), kanaka (Egyptian), briki (Greek), džezva (Štokavian) or turka (Russian) and brought to the boil then immediately removed from the heat.
A demitasse typically has a capacity of approximately 60–90 millilitres (2–3 US fl oz), half the size of a full coffee cup (a tasse à café is about 120 millilitres (4 US fl oz)).
Batch brewing keeps coffee available during peak hours and supports faster service from a single pot.
Since then, they continue to sell these filters under their own Friesland label, whereas Melitta itself switched to produce these filters in China.
The device uses an infusion method for brewing coffee with a stainless steel filter and a ceramic pot.
A coffee professional compared the same beans with and without the kopi luwak process using a rigorous coffee cupping evaluation.
At the end of the first round, the competitors with the six highest scores advance to the semifinals round and join the twelve competitors who earned a bye from CoffeeChamps.
"Selection of Discriminant Markers for Authentication of Asian Palm Civet Coffee (Kopi Luwak): A Metabolomics Approach" (PDF).
On 5 October 2020, Python 3.9 released with an updated HTTP library including 418 IM_A_TEAPOT status code.
See also Coffee portal Minto wheel Bodum, makers of the Santos, Pebo and ePebo vacuum coffee makers References External links Vac Pot How-To pdf Siphon brewer in operation, Sydney Australia
With the help of a suitable pot geometry (or a sufficiently high pouring speed) it can be avoided that the liquid reaches the spout and thus triggers the teapot effect.
Some shapes of cup, such as the wide and shallow Greek phiale (Roman patera, more a dish than a cup) seem mainly to have been used for this, while others were used for both this and drinking.
The addition of sugar during the torrefacto roasting process increases the production of compounds with antioxidant properties.
Braun's first electric shaver, known as the S 50, was designed in 1938, but World War II delayed its introduction until 1951.
The scientist Daniel Bernoulli dealt with this question as early as the beginning of the 18th century.
The machine was invented in the United States by the Rudd-Melikian company in 1947, debuting as the "Kwik Kafe".
Customers who participated in the coffee maker recall were shipped a replacement component which will help prevent the contents of a defective T-Disc from spraying if the T-Disc bursts.
Brewed or boiled, non espresso-based Black coffee is drip-brewed, percolated, vacuum brewed, or French-press-style coffee served without cream or sugar.
The external and internal structure of the machine was designed and tested to support the loads transmitted by the launch of the SpaceX CRS-6 spacecraft.
In addition to home espresso machines, Illy offers professional Francis Francis X7.1 iperEspresso machines for hotels and restaurants.
Ristretto, one of the strongest traditional coffee drinks, can contain up to 0.75 g of solubles per 15 gram serving (over 5% of total volume), making it more than four times as strong as the typical coffee beverage.
Amateur filmmakers and pyrotechnicians have taken advantage of this property to produce several types of fireball effects.
They also presented the jury with expert testimony that 190 °F (88 °C) coffee may produce third-degree burns (where skin grafting is necessary) in about three seconds and 180 °F (82 °C) coffee may produce such burns in about 12 to 15 seconds.
In 1894, the Wilda'sche coffee filter device by Eugen Wilda used single-use cloth filter bags, which, in the corresponding patent, were considered to be superior to paper filter bags presumably already in use at the time.
It has been featured in the novel From Russia with Love, in a scene where James Bond eats breakfast, the film Harper starring Paul Newman, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, and Ira Levin's Rosemary's Baby, as well as its film adaptation.
The method involves pouring water over a bed of coffee (sometimes also called cake) in a filter-lined conical, trapezoid, or cylindrical chamber typically consisting of a filter and a suitable filter holder.
A food writer reviewed kopi luwak available to American consumers and concluded, "It tasted just like...Folgers.
Thermal transport When placed beneath a cup, saucers have very little direct influence on beverage cooling rate.
The company employs around 420 people at the Weggis site in 2021 and sells its coffee machines in 80 countries worldwide.
A jebena is usually made of clay and has a spherical base, a neck and pouring spout and a handle where the neck connects with the base.
Any coffee bean may be used; arabica varieties are considered best, but robusta or a blend is also used.
A patent was filed by a Frenchman, Marcel-Pierre Paquet dit Jolbert, officially published on 5 August 1924.
Overview The center of the saucer often contains a depression or raised ring sized to fit a matching cup; this was only introduced in the mid 18th century.
Child development Drinking from a cup is a significant step on a baby's path to becoming a toddler; it is recommended that children switch from bottles to cups between six months and one year of age.
are, in no particular order, International Paper, LBP Manufacturing, Java Jacket, and Labansat & Schulz Manufacturing.
Package teapot HTCPCP-TEA implementation by David Skinner save418.com error418.net Archived 2021-01-07 at the Wayback Machine
There is no universal standard defining the process of extracting espresso, but several institutions have published definitions that restrict the amount and type of ground coffee used, the temperature and pressure of the water, and the rate of extraction.
A mihbaj (Arabic: مهباج) is a traditional Arabic implement, made of a wooden base with a foot-long pestle, that serves both as a coffee grinder and as a percussion instrument.
A chorreador is a coffee making device used in Costa Rica in which hot water leaches through coffee grounds held in a cloth filter mounted on a wooden stand, then drips into a container.
Modern steins typically come in sizes of a liter or half-liter, and are often made with hinged metal lids.
Soon after this, the Breville toasted sandwich maker was launched in New Zealand and the United Kingdom, where it was met with similar success.
The Italian multiplier term doppio is often used for a double, with solo and triplo being more rarely used for singles and triples.
There were 164 reports of the malfunction made, among which there were 61 injuries including facial and hand burns.
Historically a major producer of portable heaters and air conditioners, the company has expanded to include nearly every category of small domestic appliances in the food preparation and cooking, as well as household cleaning and ironing, segments.
Contrasts with other immersion brewing methods The AeroPress may use a finer grind than other immersion brewers and may take less time to brew coffee, sometimes around 30 seconds.
In 1974, Breville released the toasted sandwich maker, making the Breville brand a household name in Australia.
FLAVIA markets several different machines, such as large coin-operated machines and small portable machines designed for home use.
Coffee and Espresso Machines Verismo 801 and Thermoplan Black & White The Verismo 801 was a superautomatic coffee machine designed exclusively for Starbucks, until discontinued in 2008.
The server is required to hold the Dallah with the palm of his right hand positioned at the top, while using the left hand to hold the cup.
Boiling water is poured slowly over the coffee grounds, and the liquid seeps through, making coffee, which drips into the waiting container.
In 1989, Natural Brown coffee filters made from unbleached pulp were introduced, which kept unwanted by-products from leaching into the environment.
In popular culture In the movie The Bucket List, billionaire health care magnate Edward Cole (played by Jack Nicholson) brings kopi luwak with him on all of his travels but is unaware of how the drink is produced.
Devices similar to the SoftBrew include manual drip coffee makers, French press coffee makers, the Empot, and, to a limited extent, other pour-over and drip coffee filters.
Farmers using caged palm civets in north Sumatra confirmed that they supplied kopi luwak beans to exporters whose produce ends up in Europe and Asia.
Cuppetiello The cuppetiello is a small paper cone (which is used in other ways in Naples, such as holding food) that goes over the spout.
The Linea PB, named after the machine's designer, Piero Bambi, is introduced at the 2013 Boston SCAA conference.
Generally, the upper filter disc is retained on the bottom of the upper chamber by the rubber gasket, which acts as a flexible internal circlip; this filter disc prevents coffee grounds from moving up the spout of the upper chamber.
Die Kanne selbst stehe möglichst nicht auf der heißen Herdplatte, was dem Geschmack nicht zuträglich ist, sondern auf kleiner Flamme im Wasserbad.
Eugster/Frismag AG, headquartered in Amriswil, Switzerland, is an OEM producer of home appliances, especially coffee machines which are sold under many well-known international brand names.
In inverted brewing, the plunger is placed into the column from the beginning, close to the "top" of the column, and the entire AeroPress stands upside-down, resting on the top of the plunger.
Vittoria Coffee is a brand of coffee products manufactured by Vittoria Food and Beverage of Australia.
The majority at the time were "sugar bows" with two elaborately decorated hands with openwork that were joined by a flexible arc hammered into a spring, so that the hands opened when no pressure was applied to the arms.
Coffee endured a leveraged buyout and two significant changes in ownership before being acquired by Health O Meter Products, Inc.
Religious denominations with fewer than 5% adherents include Protestants, Seventh-day Adventists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Baha'is, Buddhists and Hindus.
Marotta and Glazer hired two former Westinghouse engineers, Edmund Abel and Edwin Schulze, to engineer the idea.
However, whilst they are zero-bypass flat-bottom French drip coffee pots with permanent filters, they too cannot be counted as Karlsbad-style coffee makers because they do not feature a cross-slit double-layered filter sieve and also because they are not made out of porcelain.
The rhyton, especially the types with a hole in the bottom, was one of many cup shapes used for libations.
In its most basic form, Persian Gulf or Arabic coffee has simple ingredients and preparation: water, lightly roasted coffee, and ground cardamom are boiled in a dallah for 10 to 20 minutes and served unfiltered in demitasse cups.
In a statement, Breville CEO Jim Clayton said, “The acquisition of LELIT brings together the two great coffee cultures of the world: Italy and Australia...
"The conditions are awful, much like battery chickens", said Chris Shepherd, deputy regional director of TRAFFIC in Southeast Asia.
Breville Group Limited In 2008, Housewares International Limited officially changed its name to the Breville Group Limited.
Subtypes Travel mugs Travel mugs (introduced in the 1980s) generally employ thermal insulation properties for transporting hot or cold liquids.
Retrieved 2023-01-29.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link)[5] Mugele, Frieder G.
The technical judges are not served drinks, but score the competitor on items ranging from cleanliness to consistency of shot times.
A translation of Al-Jaziri's manuscript traces the spread of coffee from Arabia Felix (the present day Yemen) northward to Mecca and Medina, and then to the larger cities of Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad, and Constantinople.
For immersion brewing methods, such as French press and vacuum brewing, extraction takes place slowly.
This is the ISBN of the second edition (2020), however, the ISBN of the first edition (2013) appears to be the same.) Mani San Max, Isabelle.
Infolge einer Bohrung durch den Ausguß und einer dünnen Rille auf der Innenseite der Tülle strömt die Flüssigkeit nach dem Aufrichten der Kanne durch Kapillarkraft zurück.
The latter part of the reign of George II and early reign of George III exhibited a very large variety of patterns pierced and chased onto the tongs.
The company Web site said in 2018 that it had been roasting coffee in Cherry Hill for more than 50 years.
The team decided to continue with production in the United States, rather than moving to Mexico, as was their initial plan.
As of 2020, Friesland was the only remaining manufacturer of any of them; however, their Varel production site burnt down in a fire on 29 June 2023, now pending its reconstruction.
Design The brewer consists of a translucent cylindrical chamber, and a plunger with an airtight silicone seal, similar to a syringe.
The six competitors with the highest combined score from the first round will go on to compete in the finals round consisting exclusively of an open service.
Cuisine Typically, Eritrean cuisine consists of various stews (tsebhi) made from vegetables and meat, and served atop a large, flat sourdough bread called injera, tayta, "shuro", "alicha" and "hamly".
The best-known rider competing for a team sponsored by Faema was 5-time Tour de France champion Eddy Merckx.
The highly popular 3Mix (German, Drei-Mix) mixing machine was released in 1959 and soon became a fixture in nearly every second West German household, followed in 1961 by the ONKO coffee machine, available as the F468 until 2014.
As Dickie is pulling a shot in extreme close-up, he remarks, "Now you’ll find out why Miss Sherwood always shows up for breakfast, Tom.
In the first round, every competitor is required to complete two coffee services: a compulsory service and an open service.
The introduction of the iron stove in the 19th century made home coffee brewing accessible, and coffee became central to Swedish households.
During the summer of 2015, Brad Kifferstein appeared on CNBC's Power Pitch, where his pitch received one "in" and two "out" votes from the panelists.
27: Eine tropfende Schnaupe ist nicht nur bei den Kannen, die in der Gastronomie eingesetzt werden, ein Ärgernis.
Caffeine is extracted early in the brewing process, so longer extraction does not result in significantly more caffeinated coffee.
Early AeroPress models used clear polycarbonate, but in 2009 switched to BPA-free copolyester, then in 2014 to polypropylene.
Cold water is poured into a separate chamber, which is then boiled and directed into the funnel and allowed to drip through the grounds under gravity.
The machine combined a method similar to a French press with a vacuum mechanism that separated the liquid from the grounds.
The word originates from Arabic: طاس, romanized: ṭās, from the Persian: طاس, romanized: ṭās, meaning cup or bowl.
Michael Phillips is a barista who won the United States Barista Championship in Portland, Oregon, in March 2009, while working at Intelligentsia Coffee & Tea in Chicago, IL.
(The Silvia may thus be understood as an example of old wine in a new bottle.) As a result, the Silvia weighs 14 kilograms (31 lb), more than 50% more than its ancestor Audrey's 9 kilograms (20 lb).
Piega, San Leo (Rimini), Italy / Crocetta del Montella (Treviso), Italy: Collezione Enrico Maltoni / Grafiche Antiga S.p.a.
History In 1975 Eric Favre, an employee of Nestlé, noticed that a coffee bar near the Pantheon in Rome had a disproportionately large number of customers.
Philips Saeco S.p.A., or short Saeco, is an Italian manufacturer of manual, super-automatic and capsule espresso machines and other electrical goods with headquarters and factories in Gaggio Montano near Bologna.
A mug without a handle, i.e., a bowl or a beaker, is topologically equivalent to a saucer, which is quite evident when a raw clay bowl is flattened on a potter's wheel.
Pew research estimates that 63.5% are Christian, and 36.5% follows Islam, In 2010, the United States Department of State (USDoS) estimated that 65% of the population was Christian and around 35% was Muslim.
Coffee is steeped inside, then forced through the filter by pressing the plunger down through the chamber.
Practices may include repeated pours, recirculating the first draw, and heat management to control strength and avoid undesirable flavors.
Popular culture There have been several parodies in popular media, such as in the Back to the Future trilogy as Mr.
Some of the machines, particularly older models, utilize powdered instant coffee mixed with hot water, and some of these offer condiments such as cream and sugar.
The beverage is often made for celebrations; a sweet honey wine (called Mies) is also commonly served.
Handling of a used moist coffee pod is not necessary if the brewing device has a removable filter tray.
pod), is a small packed coffee pod with a paper filter covering for use in a non-grinding espresso machine.
Preparation: one spoonful of instant coffee (and sugar if one wishes) in a shaker with some water (and milk).
The new machines contained much smaller boilers, which generated steam to push water into a receptacle.
The resulting beverage is unbalanced and often associated with a predominantly sour taste – acids are extracted early in the brewing process, while balancing compounds such as sugars and bitter substances are extracted later.
The Bauhaus interpretation of this device can be seen in Gerhard Marcks' Sintrax coffee maker of 1925.
as the "midnight dust" characters threw into a campfire to make an explosive puff of smoke and sparks as they introduced the episode's story.
Others produce a similar effect by having shutters that can be closed via the top of the press, sealing the grounds off from the coffee entirely.
French drip coffee pots don't use paper filters but a permanent filter featuring many small round drilled holes made out of (enameled) metal, ceramics or porcelain.
Along with the shop's co-founders, the shop convinced the owners of the historic Maxwell House Hotel to use their coffee, forming Maxwell House Coffee.
The annual location of the event is determined by the World Coffee Events organizing committee, and is typically held in conjunction with the World Barista Championship, the World Coffee Roasting Championship, and the World Latte Art Championship.
A commonly recommended brewing temperature for traditional coffee beverages is 91–94 °C (196–201 °F), which facilitates full extraction of desired compounds.
The Hario cold brew dripper Slow Brew "Shizuku" (WDC-6) and Water Dripper Clear (WDW-6) take 58 mm round filter disks.
iperEspresso is a single-serve capsule system for preparing espresso coffee and espresso-based drinks, developed and patented by Illy.
After verifying that the water container is installed properly, the astronaut inserts the coffee capsule into an opening on the top surface of the machine, then they close the small door and select the drink size.
History The company began in 1846 manufacturing precision scales and mainly industrial balances, in Wald, now a district of Solingen in North Rhine-Westphalia.
In October 2024, they launched a limited-edition version of the Linea Micra in collaboration with Porsche, called the La Marzocco X Porsche, incorporating elements of Porsche's automotive design.
This delivers the hot water to a cone-shaped coffee grind holder, which drips into a carafe at 92 to 96 °C (198 to 205 °F), considered an optimal temperature range.
The key concepts are: Extraction Also known as "solubles yield" – what percentage (by weight) of the grounds are dissolved in the water.
To allow more immediate packaging, pressurized canisters or foil-lined bags with pressure-relief valves can be used.
Kenwood designs, produces and sells kitchen appliances including stand mixers, blenders, food processors, fridge freezers, kettles and toasters.
FAEMA (Italian acronym: Fabbrica Apparecchiature Elettromeccaniche e Affini) primarily engaged in the production of espresso machines, was founded in 1945 by Carlo Ernesto Valente, in Milan, Italy.
A Consumer Reports review determined that the coffee taste is high-quality, yet the process of brewing it is complex and does not justify its high-ticket price.
The original sugar holders were box-like, they evolved into a shape of a bowl with a close-fitting lid (with the shape similar to the modern designs), later were made of glass or had a glass insert.
White coffee In many English-speaking countries, "white coffee" is used to refer to regular black coffee that has had milk, cream, or some other "whitener" added to it.
Discs containing milk use UHT milk, not powdered milk, but are no longer available in the United States.
Construction The early tongs were scissor-like, occasionally in fancy shapes like storks with long beaks or puppets grabbing the sugar with their hands.
The espresso machines are produced by Eugster/Frismag in Romanshorn, which also manufactures machines for other brands such as Siemens, Bosch and AEG.
Additional companies that manufactured coffee vending machines in 1947 in the United States include the Manning & Lewis company, Knapway Devices and the Bert Mills Corporation.
The trademark was applied unrelated to their function or design by four different manufacturers in Italy (Brevetti Robbiati), Austria (Stella - Desider Josef Stern was the trademark holder), Hungary (Szigony M.V.), United Kingdom ( A.&M.G.
Boiling Boiling, decoction or maceration, was the main method used for brewing coffee until the 1930s and is still used in some European and Middle Eastern countries.
This assessment may be due in part to the lesser frequency of proper barista training by many coffee vendors.
There is always at least one word that can be made using all of the available letters, and the rules may require that a maximum length word be found.
I know this: 100% will get it if I'm the president." These incidents have been described as or likened to Freudian slips.
In August 2025, the game had 40 million downloads, in large part due to success in the United States.
Unlike popular word games like Wordle that are based on spelling and letter placement, Semantle challenges players to find a daily secret word based on semantics, or similarity in meaning.
Wit is a form of intelligent humour—the ability to say or write things that are clever and typically funny.
Words must be at least three letters long, proper nouns and names are not allowed, and there is no time limit or scoring.
The only way to avoid a vicious circle is to regard certain primitive concepts as being so simple and obvious that we agree to leave them undefined.
Some students also apply this technique to remember historical dates, vocabulary, and key concepts for exams.
He follows it to all adventures; it is sure to lead him out of his way, sure to engulf him in the mire.
In Romanian, there is a game called "Fazan" ("Pheasant"), in which players must say a word that starts with the last two letters of the previous word.
Not only his works, but the treatises within his works have titles in this manner; see his work Fatawa Razawiyyah.
Note that in this case no blanagram is available by replacing the E, so EPICOTYL and LIPOCYTE are the only eight-letter words that can be formed from the Scrabble tiles CILOPTY plus a blank.
She's pissing and taking a shit.') Modern macaronic literature Prose Macaronic text is still used by modern Italian authors, e.g.
Origins The Anderson Valley, of which Boonville is the largest town, was an isolated farming, ranching, and logging community during the late 19th century.
The first season was taped at the Kaufman Astoria Studios in New York City, and the second season was taped at the CBS Studio Center in Los Angeles.
See also Constrained writing Piphilology Six nines in pi (handled at the start of chapter 2, "Change") References 2.
He issued an invitation to all the poets of France to display their skill by composing to sets of rhymes selected for the purpose by the poet, Joseph Méry (1798-1866).
Baas-o-Beyt (Sistanian: بئث و بئت) is a special kind of rhyming game common among Sistanian people and is generally considered as a genre of Sistanian poetry (called Seytak) played by composing verses of Sistanian poems, along with some Sistanian dance and music.
This right does not, however, give citizens the right to demand publication of pseudonymous speech on equipment they do not own.
The 20th-century linguist Yuen Ren Chao utilized this poem to illustrate the complexities and unique attributes of the Chinese language, arguing that simplification and romanization would undermine its rich tonal and logographic system.
The player must rearrange them into as many words as possible within a certain time while reusing the letters repeatedly.
Spanish as used in Latin America has a further form, Vesre, in which the order of syllables is reversed.
However, George Cadar, a member of the Romanian Association of Semiotic Studies, claims to have recorded a similar form of speech far from Alba County, although he did not elaborate on this.
Recall is achieved by mentally retracing the path and using the imagined scenes to retrieve the associated information.
It is called "Šatra" (/sha-tra/)or "Šatrovački" (/shatro-vachki/) and was used in crime-related and street language.
For example, R and N in RUSSIAN may be replaced with Cyrillic Я ("ya") and И ("i") to form the faux-cyrillic "ЯUSSIAИ" (which in Russian would be pronounced yaussiai).
Rombauer, Captain Blood Returns Raphael Sabatini, Flush Virginia Woolf, Paradise Lost John Milton, Clans of the Alphane Moon Philip K.
In English "Mr & Mrs jokes" have been commonly featured in the "late arrivals" round of the radio panel show "I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue", broadcast on BBC Radio 4 since 1972, where the contestants announce the arrival of fictional guests.
Players are given seven randomly chosen letter tiles, which are replenished until all 104 tiles have been used.
If the player finds three words unrelated to the puzzle, they have the option to receive a hint, which highlights the letters in one of the theme words.
Gameplay A dynamic word game designed for two players involves wooden letter tiles, each bearing four letters.
Both poems are 24 lines long and contain 478 words, and have been subject to several literary and statistical analyses.
Yaminjeongeum (Korean: 야민정음; Hanja: 野民正音) is a South Korean Internet meme which disassembles Hangul characters of a word and replaces them with others which appear similar to the correct form.
Running while Black is a sardonic description of racial profiling experienced by Black runners in the United States and Canada.
Basic Alias The board in Alias is a "path" consisting of sequential curving numbers on a red background.
Thus one might say, "I know a word that rhymes with bird." A second asks, "Is it ridiculous?" "No, it is not absurd." "Is it a group of cows?" "No, it is not a herd." This proceeds until the right word is guessed.
Coxeter cites Vish in his discussion of definitions in mathematics: Vish illustrates the important principle that any definition of a word must inevitably involve other words, which require further definitions.
For example: This offers a sometimes intuitive alternative to systems like the International Phonetic Alphabet, which offers precise descriptions but must be learned.
Alphabetical Africa is a book by Walter Abish in which the first chapter only uses words that begin with the letter "a", while the second chapter incorporates the letter "b", and then "c", etc.
In 2023, pop singer Shakira released the song "Acróstico", which spells out the names of her children Milan and Sasha in the first letters of each line.
See also Etymology False etymology Figure of speech List of forms of wordplay List of taxa named by anagrams Metaphor Phono-semantic matching Simile Pun References External links A categorized taxonomy of wordplay composed of record-holding words
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
The different arrangement of premium squares can lead to scoring situations that would be rare or impossible in a typical Scrabble game.
Etymology "Abecedarius" (or "abecedarium") is a Medieval Latin word meaning "ABC primer", derived by adding the suffix "-arius" (-a, -um) to the names of the first four letters of the alphabet (a+b+c+d).
See also Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics References External links Official website The SymmyS Awards
The verse would be sung to a popular tune of the day and the game collapsed when a player was unable to use his wit to come up with a suitable rhyming word.
Also included are chapters on word-level phenomena, such as sentence palindromes, and wordplay involving arithmetic and geometric progressions.
In the story, the acronym EPT (Education for a Particular Task) later morphed into "Eptification for Particular Task".
The player to the left of the player who started the pickle round takes the next turn to resume normal play.
In the basic game, all players sit in a circle, and the first player describes the minister's cat with an adjective beginning with the letter 'A' (for example, "The minister's cat is an admirable cat").
Edmund Clerihew Bentley used the language as a plot point in his 1937 short story "The Old-Fashioned Apache".
I object."), or the opposite meaning "Reginam occidere nolite timere, bonum est; si omnes consentiunt ego non contradico." ("Do not be afraid to kill the Queen, it is good, if all agree then I do not object.").
Bait Bazi (Urdu: بیت بازی) is a verbal game and a genre of Urdu poetry played by composing verses of Urdu poems.
Similarly, The Sweeney (1975–78) alludes to the phrase "Sweeney Todd" for "Flying Squad", a rapid response unit of London's Metropolitan Police.
References External links The Fumblerules of Grammar by William Safire Fumblerules entry on the alt.usage.english FAQ Hacker writing style section of JARGON FILE, VERSION 4.3.3, 20 SEP 2002
They arise when semantically correct sentences are misused in epistemic contexts thus creating the illusion of meaning.
Pressing a button starts a loud ticking and, after a random time interval, the sound of an explosion.
In the traditional version of the game, one person says "I packed my bag and in it I put...", and names any object.
Green letters indicate that the letter is correctly placed, yellow letters indicate that it is in the wrong spot, and grey letters indicate that it is not in the word.
Longest examples In the book Language on Vacation: An Olio of Orthographical Oddities, Dmitri Borgmann tries to find the longest such word.
This is because Q is nearly always followed by U in English words (see exceptions), and if there were a Q in Boggle, it would be challenging to use if a U did not, by chance, appear next to it.
The game design was rejected by games manufacturers such as Parker Brothers and Milton Bradley, but Butts was able to sell copies on his own, though not enough to recoup his development expenses.
John writes "The man had a cold", which the teacher marks incorrect, while James writes the correct "The man had had a cold".
References External links Official website Windows Phone Store app details page Archived 2014-05-14 at the Wayback Machine Windows Store app details page Wordament Facebook page
The game can also be played as "I packed my grandmother's trunk", "I went on a picnic" or "I went to the shops".
It is a common Western trope used in book covers, film titles, comic book lettering, artwork for computer games, or product packaging which are set in or wish to evoke Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union, or Russia.
However, sometimes one of the vowels is changed to make the new word easier to pronounce, avoid ambiguity, or if the stem word is not in nominative.
In culture Deputy of the Rada Oleh Liashko called for the resignation of Azarov by reading a text from a paper written in Azirivka, however his microphone was quickly turned off.
WordSpot is a fast-paced word search board game where players use transparent tokens to highlight words found on a board of wooden letter tiles.
As a result, speakers may naturally transform ch [tʃ] to t [t] or when trying to pronounce certain tongue twisters.
Sophocles, Oedipus st:370 Italian Aristotele, ancora adolescente, aveva avuto accesso all’associazione accademica.
Episode Status Almost the entirety of the CBS primetime version of Password exists and has aired at various times on Game Show Network.
The rules of creating a new word that can be used in nominative while the stem is not apply similarly to standard šatrovački.
For example, a complex statement by Richard Whately includes four puns: "Why can a man never starve in the Great Desert?
John Langdon John Langdon is a self-taught artist, graphic designer and painter, who started designing ambigrams in the late 1960s and early 70s.
Modern word games As part of the modern "Golden Age" of board games, designers have created a variety of newer, non-traditional word games, often with more complex rules.
He has characters quoting haiku by Kobayashi Issa and Yosa Buson, and has them spontaneously writing their own haiku.
Metaphysical poetry as a style was prevalent in the time of English playwright William Shakespeare, who admonished pretension with the phrase "Better a witty fool than a foolish wit".
Gameplay The game presents rare and unusual words, and players secretly submit definitions for them, hoping that other players will believe their definition is the real one.
Categories is a word game where players attempt to list words that fit into particular categories, all starting with the same letter.
For example, a word where every featured letter appears twice, like "noon", might be called a pair isogram, a second-order isogram, or a 2-isogram.
A perfect pangram is an example of a heterogram, with the added restriction that it uses all the letters of the alphabet.
Sallows wondered if one could produce a pangram that counts its letters as percentages of the whole sentence–a particularly difficult task since such percentages usually won't be exact integers.
Industry observers believe that the move was designed to stop the spread of parodies or other comments on politically sensitive issues in the runup to the 20th anniversary of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre.
Definitions In the 12th century, Rashid al-Din Vatvat defined īhām as follows: "Īhām in Persian means to create doubt.
The term should not be confused with pronunciation spelling which is an ad hoc spelling of a word that has no standard spelling.
Sonia Sanchez's 1968 play The Bronx is Next includes a scene in which a White police officer arrests a Black person for running while Black.
Two teams, each composed of a celebrity and contestant, attempt to convey mystery words to each other using single-word clues, in order to win cash prizes.
Unlike typical anadromes, these anadromic formations often do not conform to any real names or words.
After playing the last tile, the opposing player will lose all the points equal to the amount of the remaining tiles.
Persian A famous example of lexical ambiguity in Persian is the following sentence: بخشش لازم نیست اعدامش کنید It can be read either as: بخشش!
In the first episode of Bordertown (2016), detective Kari Sorjonen explains the memory palace concept, and, throughout the series, he marks rectangles with tape on his basement floor where he stands to imagine himself at various significant loci in a case, organized into memory palaces.
Venezolario includes regional vocabulary, such as from the western region and Zulia, and features collectible cards with expressions, characters, cuisine, and traditional symbols, weekly tournaments where players compete, and achievements for reaching specific goals.
A sobriquet ( SOH-brih-kay, -⁠KAY) is a descriptive nickname, sometimes assumed, but often given by another.
Wordtris is a Tetris offshoot designed by Sergei Utkin, Vyacheslav Tsoy and Armen Sarkissian (who later became President of Armenia) and published by Spectrum HoloByte in 1991 for MS-DOS compatible operating systems.
'OPEC countries', 'SALT talks' and 'HIV virus' are all technically redundant because the second word is already contained in the preceding abbreviation, but only the ultra-finicky would deplore them.
See also List of famous ciphertexts Musical cryptogram American Cryptogram Association Verbal arithmetic References External links PlayCryptograms.com – browser-based cryptogram puzzles.
This practice also resembles Jin, another Sinitic language, in its process of splitting a monosyllabic word into two syllables.
Scoring points leads to progressively higher praise for the player's effort, such as "Solid", "Amazing", and "Genius".
It has very few and simple rules, requires no equipment, and it's played in multiple countries around the world, primarily in Europe.
The following is a partial list of linguistic example sentences illustrating various linguistic phenomena.
Just as an autogram is a sentence that describes itself, so there exist closed chains of sentences each of which describes its predecessor in the chain.
Sports edition On September 24, 2024, The Athletic, in partnership with The New York Times Games, launched a sports edition of Connections in beta.
A recursive acronym is an acronym that refers to itself, and appears most frequently in computer programming.
By extension, the vertices can be identified with words instead of letters to form eodermdromic phrases or sentences.
The answer—nightingale—is then (somewhat mistakenly) acted out by Becky in the role of a singing French marquise, recalling both Lacoste's 1705 tragic opera Philomèle and an arriviste lover and wife of Louis XIV.
The magazine organizes the SymmyS Awards, an annual palindrome competition named after a 1991 book by Hugo Brandt Corstius (writing as Battus) and adjudicated by a celebrity panel.
Capitalized words are often used to differentiate a philosophical concept from how the concept is referred to in everyday life, or to demonstrate respect for an entity or institution.
There is another French argot called largonji, which differs from louchébem only in the suffix that is added (-i instead of -em); the term is derived from jargon.
Double letters, apostrophes, and the fact that no letter can substitute for itself in the cipher also offer clues to the solution.
This effect is usually restricted to text set in all caps, because Cyrillic letter-forms do not match well with lower case Latin letters.
Gameplay According to the game's official rules, the player rolls the dice and attempts to use all 12 letters to make words that connect.
Later examples omitted direct references to individual syllables, such as the following, said to be a favorite of Theodore Roosevelt: The answer is "an actor".
{and she answered} Can't you see my father {right around us}, you blind man?) The next one answers like this: Byāya bogzara mesle ame'sha (بیایه بگذره مثل أمئشه) Aga yag bose me'dādi che me'sha?
In this case, the letters are inscribed in the Lombardic script of the 1260s and the complete structure would probably have stood near the high altar .
Entries included a Chinese Takeaway in Ayr town centre called "Ayr's Wok", a kebab shop in Ireland called "Abra Kebabra" and a tree-surgeon in Dudley called "Special Branch".
Šatrovački (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtroʋatʃkiː]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатровачки) or šatra (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtra]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатра) is an argot within the Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian languages comparable to verlan in French or vesre in Spanish.
Part Three: Naming all three passwords in 30 seconds multiplied the contestant's part-two winnings tenfold (meaning if a player accumulated $500 after two parts, guessing all three passwords in this part would earn $5,000).
Although a clever writer can get around this (for example, by obliquely rhyming "orange" with combinations of words like "door hinge" or "more range", or with lesser-known words like "Blorenge" [a hill in Wales], or the surname Gorringe).
Gheorghe Braica, former protopope of Cluj-Napoca and a native of Mărgău, explained in his Monografia Mărgăului ("Monograph of Mărgău") that Gumuțeasca first developed at the base of the Apuseni Mountains and that it spread from there to nearby villages.
It incorporates elements from games like Pictionary, Charades, and 25 Words or Less to create a party game with "a little bit of everything".
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
A letter is written on a sheet of paper, and each player takes turns adding a letter either to the beginning or the end of this ever-growing word stem.
A pass occurs from the time one team gets the phrase correct until the second team begins giving a clue.
He is the author of Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art and Science of Remembering Everything, published in 2011.
In unstressed syllables, /ɨ/, /ɨj/ and /əj/ are considered more or less equivalent: thus за́лы, ма́лый and а́лой can all be rhymed.
On each team, the player who is given the password must attempt to convey it to their partner using a singular word clue.
The magazine also covers closely related forms of wordplay, including calculator words and written charades.
Compton praised Quiddler in an article in The Washington Post for its "addictive" gameplay and easily explainable rules.
With the 2022 version, the standard maximum value of the first guess is six points, with a goal of fifteen.
Non è facile, anche perché va detto il più veloce possibile Which means, in English: This is an example of phrase in Farfallino Alphabet.
Later, in the book Making the Alphabet Dance, Ross Eckler reports the word "subdermatoglyphic" (17 letters) can be found in an article by Lowell Goldsmith called Chaos: To See a World in a Grain of Sand and a Heaven in a Wild Flower.
Rules Example : 食饭 → 手习花散 [sit fan] → [siu jit fa san]; eat (rice) → hand + learn + flower + separation.
As the Oxford English Dictionary points out, the epithet "Irish" is a more recent addition, the original word bull for such nonsense having been traced back at least to the early 17th century.
It may be related to Old French boul "fraud, deceit, trickery", Icelandic bull "nonsense", Middle English bull "falsehood", or the verb bull "befool, mock, cheat".
It can also be used for older or adult learners of a foreign language, where the challenge of speaking comprehensibly, and understanding, is more difficult because of the low volume, and hence a greater mastery of the fine points of pronunciation is required.
Irish mathematician and physicist, John Lighton Synge, invented the multi-player, refereed game to emphasize the circular reasoning implicit in the defining process of any standard dictionary.
Psychology It is believed that word association can reveal something of a person's subconscious mind (as it shows what things they associate together), but others are skeptical of how effective such a technique could be in psychology.
Once every word is found, the remaining letters will spell out the solution, or "Wonderword" in order.
Exploitation of geographical names, especially exotic ones, is also common, and has been seen as invoking memories of geography lessons in order to subvert the decorum taught in the schoolroom.
Usage There are various ways to convert a word into yaminjeongeum: just replacing its consonants or vowels, rotating it, compacting it, or even using the Latin alphabet.
Most spellings were not formalized until the 1970s, primarily by the writings of Jack (Wee Fuzz) June.
Words like רננו ("rejoice ye!"), שמחה ("joy"), ברנה ("with rejoicing") were especially used for this purpose, as they express happiness.
Bush says of Lord's term: The Hypocatastasis is the substitution, without a formal notice, of agents and objects of one sphere, or of one species, in the place of the persons or objects of another, as in Is.
Examples of long words of this type are scvrnkls () 'you (m.) flicked (something) away', čtvrthrst 'quarter handful', and čtvrtsmršť 'quarter whirlwind', the latter two being artificial, though grammatical, constructs unlikely to occur spontaneously.
In the broader sense, it can refer to any technique when an author tries to hide his name or a reference to his identity in an encrypted manner (e.g.
As of 2015, it was considered nearly extinct, with fewer than 100 living speakers, many of whom were not fluent.
To help the villagers out, one player is the Seer, who knows the word but must not to be too obvious when helping them figure it out; if the word is guessed, the werewolf can pull out a win by identifying the Seer.
Fictionary, also known as the Dictionary Game or simply Dictionary, is a word game in which players guess the definition of an obscure word.
Points are redeemable for real prizes—20,000 points in Chicktionary could be redeemed for a copy of Windows Vista Home Premium.
The online game version offered players the opportunity to customize the game with "Banana Chip" credits.
Such a game can be played with each player starting the game with three lives, and losing one every time they receive a "Bad!" judgement.
In the second half of the 20th century, both have fallen out of use because after the traditional social stratification has been completely changed, the Matte is no longer a working-class neighbourhood.
The letter k is also rarely used, mainly for names and international neologisms such as kilogram and folk.
Later writers have come to regard the book as "groundbreaking", noting that it was the first book devoted solely to the description and study of wordplay, rather than simply providing a list of puzzles.
However it developed an ironic and colloquial meaning "bothersome, unlucky", as in ¡Dichosas moscas!, "Damned flies!".
Most Cyrillic letter-forms were derived from the Greek alphabet in the 9th century, but the modern forms have more closely resembled those in the Latin alphabet since Peter the Great's civil script reform of 1708.
The more odd and perplexing the rhymes are, the more ingenuity is required to give a semblance of common sense to the production.
The following are some common examples of it: Popularity There is no definitive source of the origin of Yaminjeongeum.
Use in computing In computing, an early tradition in the hacker community, especially at MIT, was to choose acronyms and abbreviations that referred humorously to themselves or to other abbreviations.
Some students like to spell things correctly and may resist attempts to get them to spell inventively.
The game was also listed as one of the Therapeutic Apps for iPhone and iPad by the Flinders University, Australia.
His Magnetic Poetry kits consist of individual words—often related to a particular theme or topic—printed on small magnets which can be creatively arranged on a refrigerator or other metal surface.
Because the town of Boonville has only a little more than 700 residents, Boontling is an extremely esoteric jargon, and is quickly becoming archaic.
The study of written verlan is difficult as it is primarily passed down orally, without standardized spelling.
The colorful and stylistic designs on the cards are based on illuminated letters found in Celtic manuscripts written over 1000 years ago.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
Superhuman strength is a superpower commonly invoked in fiction and other literary works, such as mythology.
Examples of homographs in Middle Chinese are: Modern Chinese Many homographs in Old Chinese and Middle Chinese also exist in modern Chinese varieties.
Related games A similar Japanese game is shiritori, in which the word must begin with the last mora, or kana, of the previous word.
The first known documented labeling of this casual parlor game as "Trivia" was in a Columbia Daily Spectator column published on February 5, 1965.
Tiles are shuffled face-down then turned over one by one, players forming words by combining them with existing words, their own or others'.
Dominic O'Brien, an eight-time World Memory Champion, has contributed to the popularization of the technique through his instructional writings and training programs.
It is edited by Mark Saltveit, a Portland-based stand-up comedian who won the first-ever World Palindrome Championship.
These plans never materialized, and ABC went ahead, managing strong results against NBC's Somerset and reruns of Gomer Pyle – USMC on CBS.
It implies that a motorist may be stopped by a police officer largely because of racial bias rather than any apparent violation of traffic law.
Production The game was developed by Katty and Ronald Kanzler siblings, descendants of Germans who settled in the Colonia Tovar.
Rosarigasino (also known as Gasó) is a language game (in the form of a rhyming slang) traditionally associated with the city of Rosario, province of Santa Fe, Argentina, even though very few people, if any, currently employ it.
The next person then says "I packed my bag and in it I put...", followed by the original suggestion, and adding their own.
Both bogus theories violate the rules of the epistemic game that make genuine doubt and certainty meaningful.
You can trap the next player directly or help the next player by playing a word that allows them to trap the next player.
Some versions of the game were criticized for the ease with which players could disrupt games with obscenities, and the anonymous nature of the site meant that there were no repercussions for this behavior.
While about a third of his subjects associated the word with beer, another third associated it with tiredness, dizziness and so forth.
RSVP was a vertical version of Scrabble introduced by Selchow and Righter in 1958 and promoted as "3-D Scrabble".
The written poem is easy to understand for those familiar with Chinese characters, each of which is associated with a distinct core meaning.
Notable players Samuel Pepys recorded playing in his diary entry of Saturday 19 May 1660: "From thence to the Hague again playing at crambo in the waggon, Mr.
Another use of a pseudonym in literature is to present a story as being written by the fictional characters in the story.
Origin Balderdash is based on an earlier game, Fictionary, of essentially similar gameplay, varying in that obscure words are found in an unabridged dictionary instead of the definitions and meanings provided on cards.
sanan muunnos [sa-nan mu-ːnnos] → [mu-nan sa-ːnnos] → munan saannos If necessary, stilted diphthongs are converted into allowed diphthongs as per phonotactics.
Kennedy is said to have been a fan of the game, one biography describing his family as playing it "endlessly".
The lingo has become somewhat infamous, at least in local circles or within the legends of California, owing to its small-town nature and curious-sounding name, as well as its very limited speakership.
comtesse Tation – same pronunciation in French as contestation ("dispute") l'abbé Quille – same pronunciation as la béquille ("the crutch") In 1882, Alphonse Allais invented Jean Rougy de Ontt, Tony Truand, Tom Hatt, Sarah Vigott, Azutat Laure.
In well-defined abuse cases, a designated authority may be able to revoke the pseudonyms and reveal the individuals' real identity.
Software quality To compare the quality of different machine translation systems, users perform RTT and compare the resulting text to the original.
Grammelot (or gromalot or galimatias) is an imitation of language used in satirical theatre, an ad hoc gibberish that uses prosody along with macaronic and onomatopoeic elements to convey emotional and other meaning, and used in association with mime and mimicry.
The nominal value or minimum sale price for an item can be listed on a tag for the salesperson's reference while being visible but meaningless to the customer.
(Do you remember how cool it was?) Dutch In the Netherlands and Belgium, the most common version is to insert the syllable "ep" before every vowel.
Some part of the personality seemed to have an influence on that person's behavior that was not in their conscious control.
Gameplay The object of the game is to build words of three letters or more using the tiles that fall from the top of the playing area.
Another idea associated with īhām is that a verse may function as a mirror of the reader's condition, as expressed by the 14th-century author Shaykh Maneri: "A verse by itself has no fixed meaning.
He brought all their children into the world, and one of them later wrote that at the age of six he was sent to Trevissome Farm "to be' inoculated for the small-pox".
Say was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the Tenth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Joseph Clay.
John Bagford then somewhat later argued for an origin of the assemblage in the Roman presence under the Emperor Claudius; this was in a letter of 1715, in which Bagford accepted the human origin of the handaxe.
The text was encoded using a scheme now known as the Arnold Cipher, which used Commentaries on the Laws of England by William Blackstone as a cryptographic key.
For many years this bust occupied such a position as to be virtually excluded from sight; but in 1846 it was placed on a bracket at the upper end of the hall.
Despite this, in his lifetime he was better known than his teacher, Francis Towne, some of whose Italian views he copied.
References External links Will of Thomas Graham, His Majesty's Apothecary in London of Garthmore, Perthshire Pall Mall, North Side, Past Buildings
He remained an apothecary for about twenty years, when he acted on his diploma, and practised only as a physician, finally retiring in 1812.
After the opening of the free market in Buenos Aires, Narciso Marull Torrent maintained commercial ties with the British.
On October 27, 1807, Craigie and twelve associates were given the authority to build the Canal Bridge.
Conversion "From the Devonshire House monthly meeting minutes Joseph's wife Eizabeth Peeters had transferred her Friends' Membership from London to Cornwall but there was no mention of Joseph, although he appeared in these minutes in the early 1790s.
David and Susan had nine children: David, Susan (who later became the sister-in-law to John Davis), Samuel, Mary, Jacob Morton, Sophia, William Brown, John, and Martha.
She seems to have taken these as important parts of her life, but she no less thought women deserved a place in the realm of science.
He became an apothecary in London where he traded at the sign of the Grasshopper in Cheapside until he succeeded to the family estates on the death of his brother in 1651.
These gardens had been started in 1596 and designed by Besler's colleague, Joachim Camerarius the Younger (1534–1598), a physician and botanist.
After years of good health, he began to suffer intense flare-ups of gout before dying at his home in London in 1799.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl (~27) married Sarah Perry (~22) (daughter of Philip Perry and Elizabeth Flemming; sister of John Perry Sr and aunt of John Perry, shipwrights of Blackwall Yard) at St Andrew Undershaft, City of London, on 19 Nov 1745.
After witnesses were interviewed and depositions given, the House of Representative voted that Myers was the winner of the election.
He made in total six sea voyages, including to South America and India, and attempted a circumnavigation of Earth.
He conducted studies of alkaline salts in plants, on the combustion of chalk and argued against the possibility of transmutation of elements.
Jakob Benjamin Fischer (13 October 1731 – 25 July 1793) was a Baltic German naturalist and apothecary.
Craigie was also fundamental in convincing Middlesex County authorities to move the Middlesex County Courthouse (Massachusetts) from Harvard Square to a new Charles Bulfinch-designed building in East Cambridge.
Dante took part in several attempts by the White Guelphs to regain power, but these failed due to treachery.
For his work in endowing the professorship, Sherard was granted a doctorate in medicine by the university in 1731.
In Garnero's response, he refers to Erculiani's arguments as "gifts from the Holy Spirit" which further protects her from trouble due to her actual views.
The number of labours which he attended amounted to rather more than ten thousand; in one year alone he attended 362.
Life Joachim Christian Timm, the son of tobacconist Matthias Ernst Timm (1704–1779), was born in Wangerin in Farther Pomerania, Prussia (now in Poland) and attended school there.
2012: Bibliography of the entomological literature from the beginning until 1863 : online database – version 1.0 – Senckenberg Deutsches Entomologisches Institut.
Britain was involved in the Seven Years' War and they were asking him not to print a list of ships sailing from the port.
He is also in the second installment, still as a Mitama, but given randomly by slaying a higher leveled Oni.
Life Haslam was born in London, and trained as an apothecary at the United Borough Hospitals, and (briefly) in Edinburgh where he attended medical classes in 1785 and 1786.
Gideon Delaune, Robert Johnstone, and the Lombard Street goldsmith William Terry were executors of the goldsmith George Heriot, who made a bequest to found a school in Edinburgh now known as George Heriot's School.
He was re-elected MP for Westminster in November 1640 for the Long Parliament and sat until he was excluded under Pride's Purge in 1648.
In November 1602 he was paid £388 Scots for "drugs, oils, unguents, medicaments, and plasters" supplied to the king.
Uebersicht der Mecklenburgischen Moose nach alphábetischer Ordnung, 1809 – Survey of mosses from Mecklenburg in alphabetical order.
The medical part of his library was reputed to be the largest collection of books on physic yet made in England.
He inherited property in Yoxhall and purchased a malthouse and inn at Stafford and his profession at the time of death was recorded as "maltster".
The natural history cabinet was also maintained and managed by the son along with the Leipzig physician Johann Ernst Hebenstreit.
A selection in four volumes was published by Richard Bradley in 1727–8, with the title A Catalogue of all sorts of Earths, the Art of Draining, of Brewing, of all sorts of Husbandry.
He never married and was found dead around 2 April 1718 (incorrectly noted as 20 April in some sources) after a long illness.
He was appointed apothecary to James VI of Scotland on 7 February 1577 with an annual pension of £50 Scots.
Schaw appears to have been a physician serving the women of the court, and was mentioned in William Dunbar's poem Of a Dance in the Quenis Chamber.
Dante Alighieri (Italian: [ˈdante aliˈɡjɛːri]; most likely baptized Durante di Alighiero degli Alighieri; c.
Some verses of the Paradiso section of the Divine Comedy also provide a possible clue that he was born under the sign of Gemini: "As I revolved with the eternal twins, I saw revealed, from hills to river outlets, the threshing-floor that makes us so ferocious" (XXII 151–154).
He seems to have sold books, missals, and offertory candles to the king, although similar books were also provided by a man called by "John Foular".
He became a freeman of the Society of Apothecaries on 6 October 1685, enabling him to practice his profession in London.
During 1729 Geoffroy used a method from Wilhelm Homberg “to determine the strength of vinegar by adding small amounts of potassium”, and this went to be the first ever titration recorded.
The pharmacy is still part of Merck KGaA, but the original building was destroyed during World War II in the bombing campaigns, and therefore it is a new construction.
He is best remembered for his medical compendium Pharmacopée royale galénique et chymyque published in 1676 (later translated into Latin version Pharmacopoeus Regius, and English Royal Pharmacopoea in 1678.) Charas grew up and trained in apothecary in Orange.
In September 1595 MacCartney wrote to Bowes about the Catholic earls, with the news that Elizabeth Douglas, Countess of Erroll was now allowed by James VI to rebuild Old Slains Castle, and the Earl of Huntly would be able to do the same at Huntly Castle if stonemasons were available.
For one of the London properties, he commissioned a builder in October 1794, to build a house for him at the South West corner of South Street near Finsbury Square, to be completed by August 1795.
Landucci married a woman named Salvestra at the age of thirty, and used his wife's dowry to open a new shop.
At the 1710 British general election he was mixed up in a double return and waived his right of election on 8 December 1710.
After inheriting an estate at the age of 62, he retired there and was appointed a deputy lieutenant of Devonshire in 1831.
Edinburgh burgh hosted a banquet for the queen's brother, Ulrik, Duke of Holstein, on 2 May 1598 at the house of Ninian MacMorran at Riddle's court.
External links Ownership inscription of Hugh Morgan WorldCat References Sources Bradford, Charles Angell (1939).
In 1819 he was appointed teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium, later adding the titles Medizinalrat and Professor.
In the historical fantasy novel Teito Monogatari by Hiroshi Aramata the protagonist Yasunori Kato claims to be a descendant of En no Gyōja.
From 1706 he worked at this father's pharmacy in Naumburg and from 1710 he went back to Leipzig and worked with his brother.
One of his predecessors at the Scottish court was John Mosman, who worked for James IV and Margaret Tudor.
Having a considerable knowledge of botany, he devoted himself especially to the study of the essential oils in plants.
John White Abbott (13 May 1763 – 1851) was an English surgeon and apothecary in Exeter, remembered as a keen amateur painter in both watercolour and oils.
Biography Birth and Education Neumann was born at Zullichau, in the Electorate of Brandenburg, July 11, 1683.
The Apothecary to the Household was originally responsible for providing medicine to members of the Royal Household; a separate officer, the Apothecary to the Person, ministered to the Sovereign.
De vulgari eloquentia ("On the Eloquence in the Vernacular") is a treatise on vernacular literature, partly inspired by the Razos de trobar of Raimon Vidal de Bezaudun.
He was among the first chemists, along with Samuel Cottereau du Clos, to serve in the French Academy of Sciences at the time of its founding in 1666, chosen by Jean-Baptiste Colbert on behalf of Louis XIV.
He began his career as personal attendant to Richard Neile, Bishop of Winchester (1628–31) and later Archbishop of York (1631–40), a close associate of William Laud in the Star Chamber and elsewhere.
Dillenius' herbarium specimens from Eltham are preserved in the herbarium of the Oxford Botanical Garden.
The last payment recorded to Foular was in December 1512 for a year's supply of "powder, spicery, apothecary, and materials for the King and Queen".
He was listed in a manuscript of "Medical Men in the American Revolution" deposited in the Library of Congress by Dr.
On November 12, Myers contested the election on the grounds that several wards in the city of Philadelphia submitted false election results.
Philippe Sylvestre Dufour (born Manosque 1622, died Vevey (Canton de Vaud) 1687) was a French Protestant apothecary, banker, collector, and writer based in Lyon.
1 [2]; Vol.2 [3] Contributions to the Transactions of the Royal Society(London) Disquisitio de camphora.
References External links Ottonis Tachenij Hippocrates chimicus, per ignem & aquam methodo inaudita nouissimi salis viperini antiquissima fundamenta ostendens (1697) Biography
John Browne or Brown (died 1735) was an English chemist, elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1721.
James IV was an enthusiastic alchemist and maintained furnaces at Stirling Castle and Holyrood Palace in an attempt to make the fifth element, the "quinta essentia".
Scientists working there at the time include Evangelista Torricelli, Vincenzo Viviani and Giovanni Alfonso Borelli.
Opus posthumum, latinitate donatum, notisque & observationibus illustratum, à Frederico Ruyschio & Francisco Kiggelario.
There is an entry in the 1794 directory of London and Westminster and the borough of Southwark – James & Were – British Wine Manufacturers, Finsbury Place.
On 10 February 1594 he was appointed to attend Anne of Denmark at Stirling Castle when she gave birth to Prince Henry, with the doctors Martin Schöner, Gilbert Moncreiff, and the surgeon Gilbert Primrose.
In 1761 Hudson was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and in the following year the first edition of his Flora Anglica appeared, which, according to Pulteney and J.
Narciso Marull (1747-c.1820) was a Spanish apothecary and merchant, who served as Asentista de Medicina in the Real Audiencia of Buenos Aires.
He became famous for publishing compendiums of medication formulas, which played vital roles in the development of modern pharmacy and chemistry.
External links Works by John Haslam at Project Gutenberg Works by or about John Haslam at the Internet Archive Burkhart Brückner, Robin Pape: Biography of John Haslam in: Biographical Archive of Psychiatry (BIAPSY).
In July 1504 Foular sent medicinal spices including pepper, cinnamon, "cubebarum", and "galiga", with glass urinals, to Margaret Tudor at Stirling Castle.
Kirkton records that even in Dumfries, at the beginning of the Pentlands Rising, the insurgents drank the king's health and M'Crie, over about 8 pages, argues repeatedly that although they rose in arms, they were not rebels.
David Jackson (1747 – September 17, 1801) was an American apothecary and physician from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
His various learned works in Latin and Dutch deal with plants, with Mennonite religious issues and with different historical themes, contemporary, biblical and literary.
Scholar Suzanne Amigues suggested that this Aristophilus was the same person as the pharmakopōlēs named "Aristobulus" described by Aeschines in his Against Ctesiphon, father of the youth Aristion of Plataea who lived for a time in the house of the statesman Demosthenes.
The Landuccis had twelve children together, and Luca remained at this location until his death in 1516.
In 1640 Joseph Barsalou was asked to treat Antonio Barberini, nephew of Pope Urban VIII and the Legate of Avignon who suffered from a fever on a visit to Avignon in the south of France.
He was a great benefactor to the Apothecaries' Company, having been ‘a principal means for the procuring of the said company to be made a corporation,’ and for the purchase of Apothecaries' Hall, where a massive marble bust of him is preserved.
The exterior decorations and embellishments are a vernacular commingling of various styles, including Palladian revival entrance, wood trim, and clapboard cladding, and Italianate tripartite facade of display windows flanking the entrance and separated by pilasters.
Furthermore, he recommended that a delegation should be formed with the aim of teaching those who visited Virginia the origin of the popular revolt, and that Miller's government was to be restored.
The men in Hamilton’s circle had insider knowledge of his plan for the new federal government to assume the war debts of the states, thereby making state debt certificates a better bet.
When the French Academy of Sciences was founded in 1666, Jean-Baptiste Colbert was assigned by Louis XIV to select members and he appointed Samuel Cottereau du Clos and Claude Bourdelin who were both associated with medicine.
He became known as one of the first in England to adopt the practice of inoculation against smallpox.
The censure was confirmed at a subsequent meeting, and a vote of thanks passed to the author of a pamphlet entitled Lucas Detected, conjectured to have been Edmund Burke, at that time a student at Trinity College.
Robert Levet (1705–1782), a Yorkshireman who became a Parisian waiter, then garnered some training as an apothecary and moved to London, was eulogised by the poet Samuel Johnson, with whom Levet shared a friendship of thirty-six years, in Johnson's poem "On the Death of Dr.
He was a member of several secret political societies, including the London Corresponding Society and the Society for Constitutional Information.
Biography Benjamin Say was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to Thomas (1709–1796) and Rebekah Atkinson Budd Say (1716–1795), He married Ann Bartram Bonsall (1759–1793) on Oct.
He served in the American Revolutionary War, and was a fellow of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, of which he was one of the founders in 1787, and was treasurer from 1791 to 1809.
Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte des ersten pharmazeutischen Lehrers am Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum in Berlin.(A contribution to the history of the first pharmaceutical professor at the Berlin Collegium Medico-Chirurgicum.) Dissertation, University of Berlin, 1938.
Weinmann employed the youthful Georg Dionysius Ehret as illustrator, who used a newly developed printing process involving mezzotint, which allowed greater detail and shading, and was finished by hand-colouring.
German's, Cornwall, privately printed London, 1872 Joseph and Elizabeth are mentioned on the chart and on the pages 12/13 (Fox of Falmouth) and 19 (Debell of Looe).
He supplied materials to the alchemists in January 1508 and in January 1513 was given a crown weight in gold to the quintessence.
Luca Landucci (1436–1516) was an Italian apothecary from Florence, best known as the writer of a diary which later became an important primary source about the history of Florence.
Angibaud left France in 1681, with his wife and three children, moving to London to avoid religious persecution, only a few years before the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685.
"An account of the remedy for the stone, lately published in England, according to an act of Parliament, assigning a reward of 5000 [pounds] to the discoverer" (with Sauveur François Morand); published in English, 1741.
Upon Camerarius' death in 1598, Besler had the remainder of Camerarius' plants moved to Eichstätt and carried on the work of planting and supervision.
A group of American botanists developed an alternative set of rules, the Rochester Code, which they proposed in 1892 as an alternative to the International Rules.
He was paid in December 1507 for the "distillation of waters" and aqua vitae for the King and Queen over the year, and for English apothecary books supplied to the royal household.
Petiver received many specimens, seeds and much other material from overseas correspondents including Samuel Browne and Edward Bulkley in Madras, Jezreel Jones in Barbary, and the Czech Jesuit Georg Joseph Kamel in Manila.
Botanisches Findbuch Between about 1810 and 1829 Ziz compiled a 170‑page handwritten "botanical notebook" (Findbuch) covering the wild plants of Rheinhessen, the Rheingau and the Lower Nahe.
In addition to dried herbs, the store carries spices, mixers, incense, bath products, tarot cards, and all-natural remedies.
Works About 1798 he published Observations on the Tussis Convulsiva, or Hoopping-cough, as read at the Lyceum Medicum Londinense.
But unfortunate experiences with his patients drew his attention to food and drug adulteration, which became the major preoccupation of his life.
He was a supporter of Anne Boleyn, then Marchioness or Marquess of Pembroke, who he describes as the "most onerabyll lady Marcas of Penbroke".
A copy of a household roll of the Scottish court made around 1507 names him and John Mosman as the court "pottingaris".
It is questionable whether he was fully qualified as a physician; and Charles Roach Smith wrote that his political advocacy ruined his professional prospects.
His second journey was with Daniel de La Touche, Lord of La Ravardière, and started in January 1604 and lasted until May; it carried him across the Atlantic Ocean via Lanzarote and Cape Verde to the mouth of the Amazon River, and further along the coast of South America to the Caribbean.
Phytanthoza iconographia is highly regarded for the quality of its colour plates, and the accuracy of its images compared with previous herbals.
John Clavie or Clavee (died 1607) was a Scottish apothecary who worked for James VI and I and the royal family.
Death and legacy Chase died without issue on 23 June 1721 leaving his estate to his widow and Dr Stephen Chase, the eldest son of his cousin, also Stephen Chase.
Barclay also sold sugar confectionery, the family of William Douglas of Lochleven bought boxes of wet and dry confections.
In the middle of the chancel: Dr Wm Rosewell of Guildford; In ye south side Col Wm Rosewell of London ye Queen’s Apothecary and ye Dr’s father’.
His father's patent granted the reversion of the office to Chase himself, and after his father's death in 1690, Chase became court apothecary to William III in June 1690, at an annual salary of £115, with an annual allowance of £127 and lodgings in Whitehall.
He also engaged in studies of the natural environment of present-day Latvia, and produced several works on the nature of Latvia in which he also referred to the native Latvian names of plants and animals.
Why bases for neutral salts were called bases The modern meaning of the word "base" and its general introduction into the chemical vocabulary are usually attributed to Rouelle, who used the term "Base" in a memoir on salts written in 1754 (see The Origin of the Term "Base" by William B.
Notably, he cured the incapacitated hands of a dyer's apprentice thereby earning himself an election to the Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce in May 1761.
Slave trade Edward Parr continued his father's business as an apothecary and general merchant in Castle Street, Liverpool.
Rumor says, "Ozunu was able to manipulate demonic spirits, making them draw water and gather firewood.
Fox was doctor to a merchant ship's Captain, Christopher Buckingham, and to his wife, Thorazine, who lived in Flushing.
Between 1644 and 1649 Barsalou practiced in Florence, attending to the Grand Duke Ferdinando II de' Medici.
The restoration was consistent with early apothecaries in Ontario, but did not capture the intent of Spafford, who became owner of the drugstore in 1852, to modernize the facility and differentiate it from his competitors.
Upon retiring from his business in Mark Lane in the 1720s, he had already acquired an ample fortune.
Parkinson was a strong advocate for the underprivileged, and an outspoken critic of the Pitt government.
In 1703 he became a master apothecary, and in 1704/05 took scientific excursions throughout southern France.
However, Garencières unknowingly used a fake edition of Nostradamus’s work, printed in 1649, which contained quatrains that were forged in order to discredit and foretell the downfall of Cardinal Jules Mazarin, prime minister of France.
Unfortunately, the Queen was no better at paying her servants than was the King as William had to again seek funding from the Treasury for the perfumes he had made for Catherine's private chapel.
James MacCartney was a Scottish medical practitioner and apothecary in Edinburgh in the 1590s who collected information for the English diplomat Robert Bowes.
Later, the company also started providing therapeutic drugs and chemicals such as acids, elixirs, tinctures, and essential oils.
In the same year he published an edition of the Loimologia of Nathaniel Hodges, and a collection of ‘Medico-physical Essays’ on ague, fevers, gout, leprosy, king's evil, and other diseases.
After completing his education, he started working for a chemist and was also believed to have provided medical advice and even occasional surgery and midwifery.
His ‘English Dispensatory’ (1721), of which a fourth edition appeared in 1722 and a twelfth in 1749, contains a complete account of the materia medica and of therapeutics, and many of the prescriptions contained in it were popular.
Guillaume François Rouelle (French pronunciation: [ɡijom fʁɑ̃swa ʁwɛl]; 15 September 1703 – 3 August 1770) was a French chemist and apothecary.
Music In time, Sherard came into contact with Wriothesley Russell, 2nd Duke of Bedford through his brother, who had once served as a tutor in Russell's family.
His work was in part to argue against an Italian zoologist Francisco Redi, who published Osservazioni intorno alle vipere (Observations about the vipers) in 1664.
The descriptions for plates 1-73 were provided by Johann Georg Nicolaus Dieterichs (1681–1737), for plates 76-525 by Ludwig Michael Dieterichs (1716–1769) and Ambrosius Karl Bieler.
He justified his conduct in An Address to the Lord Mayor and Citizens of Dublin, and replied to further censure in A Second Address to the Lord Mayor.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Stephen, Leslie, ed.
During this time he started his scientific work, which later became the basis for the discovery of morphine.
Other examples of goods one could purchase at an apothecary shop include herbs, fruits, precious oils, resins and perfume musk.
Claude Joseph Geoffroy (8 August 1685 in Paris – 9 March 1752 in Paris) was the brother of Étienne François Geoffroy.
Dr Woodward's Shield, also now in the British Museum, is now recognised as a classicising French Renaissance buckler of the mid-16th century, perhaps sold from the Royal Armouries of Charles II, but was thought by Woodward and others to be an original Roman work.
Sherard may have helped premiere the work himself, performing on the violin alongside the Duke's two Italian chamber musicians, cellist Nicola Francesco Haym and violinist Nicola Cosimi.
In 1684, he acquired his estate in Little Marlow and built Westhorpe House there during Queen Anne's reign.
Biography Samuel More was born in Westminster, England, the fifth and third surviving child of Samuel More (1682–1731), a schoolmaster from a family of distinguished writing masters, and his wife, Mary Berry (1690–1744) of Kensington.
From the 1820s to 1840, Starkwather and Brown advertised in the Colonial Advocate the availability of garden seeds "of all descriptions" collected by the Shakers of New Lebanon in New York.
Lacking funds to make the purchase when Field died the following year, in December 1965 the partners secured a promise from James Auld, the provincial Minister of Tourism and Information, that the provincial ministry would acquire the property, enabling the Niagara Foundation to exercise its option.
By profession he was a surgeon and apothecary, having been trained by William North, a member of the Royal College of Surgeons practising at Chelsea.
An introduction to the study of fossil organic remains; especially those found in the British strata: intended to aid the student in his inquiries respecting the nature of fossils, and their connection with the formation of the earth.
Dante claimed that his family descended from the ancient Romans (Inferno, XV, 76), but the earliest relative he could mention by name was his great-great-grandfather Cacciaguida degli Elisei (Paradiso, XV, 135), born no earlier than about 1100.
In 1754 he introduced the concept of a base into chemistry as a substance which reacts with an acid to form a salt.
He had given some attention to botany before 1687, the date of a commonplace book, but his help is first acknowledged by John Ray in 1688 in the second volume of the Historia Plantarum.
Biography Narciso Marull was born in Cassà de la Selva (Catalonia), son of Juan Manuel Marull and Isabel Torrent.
Joseph Barsalou built on his traditional knowledge of herbs with an introduction to medicine and philosophy reading Galen, Aristotle and Pythagoras.
After operating the business for 46 years, Paffard sold it in 1898 to his apprentice John DeWolfe Randall.
He was educated at Kendal grammar school, Hudson was subsequently apprenticed to an apothecary in London.
28 September 1628 – 9 February 1698) was an English apothecary, astrologer and physician, known for his large medical library.
He published an account of his travels in 1617, Voyages en Afrique, Asie, Indes orientales et occidentales.
Theophilus de Garencières (1610–1680) was a French apothecary who spent most of his life practising in England.
He discovered the presence of magnesia in sea-water, and researched the manufacture of Prussian blue (invented by Johann Jacob Diesbach, in 1706), publishing on these topics in the Philosophical Transactions.
Biography Merriman was born on 29 December 1731 at Marlborough, Wiltshire, was third son of Nathaniel Merriman, grocer there, by his wife Elizabeth Hawkes.
Watercolours of 420 plants were prepared during the period 1686–1709 by a number of artists, mainly Johan and Maria Moninckx, with minor contributions from Helena Herolt and Alida Withoos.
In 1788 he published his work Florae megapolitanae Prodromus, which he based on the system of the Swedish botanist Linnaeus.
Early life and career Johann Baptist Ziz was born on 8 October 1779 in Mainz, the eldest son of the wine merchant Melchior Ziz and Anna Maria Froelich.
One of his principles is: "Wherever nature has fixed a pleasure, we may take it for granted she there enjoins a duty; and something is to be done either for the individual or for the species".
Although Ziz's original herbarium perished in 1944, his Findbuch remains a primary source for the early 19th‑century flora of Hesse.
Tenzing Momo also claims to have the largest selection in town of essential oils as well as vast rows of medicinal herbs." Reception Connie McDougall of The Seattle Times called the shop "exotic as they come ...
In 1690, he published a plant catalogue of this garden under the title "Horti Beaumontiani: Exoticarum Plantarum Catalogus ...".
A flint handaxe was found nearby, now famous as the Gray's Inn Lane handaxe and on display in the British Museum's Enlightenment Gallery.
He established his business on St Martin's Lane, selling in particular his Pastilles de Blois made from licorice.
After schooling in French‑occupied Mainz, he served his pharmacy apprenticeship at the Pfau‑Apotheke under Philipp Martin Baymer, completing his journeyman's examination in 1799.
Through his travels in the south of France he became acquainted with Philippe Jacques de Maussac, President of the Court of Montpellier.
The academy consisting of fifteen members would meet twice a week, Tuesdays for mathematics and Saturdays for physics.
He says those involved in the rising regarded it as "sinless self-defence" and they were wanting justice rather than seeking to overthrow the king or his government.
What is known of his early life is that he settled in Regensburg, or Ratisbon as it was known in 1710, and found work as the assistant of an apothecary.
In James Gillray's caricature of the public meeting held at Copenhagen Fields on 12 November 1795, Jones is shown on the hustings to the left; and at the other meetings of that body he was one of the chief declaimers.
Although some described Levet as a quack, Johnson and his biographer observed that while working as a waiter in a Parisian coffeehouse, the young Yorkshireman's habit of eavesdropping on conversations of physicians had been noted, and some had taken a collection to get Levet some training.
Soon thereafter he became a traveling apothecary for the king of Prussia, Frederick I, and he continued in this capacity until 1711.
It was called "Canal Bridge" because one-third of the shares were to be held by the individual proprietors of the Middlesex Canal Corporation, but it soon came to be familiarly called "Craigie's Bridge." The original bridge was completed and opened for travel in August, 1809.
He was a member of the Pennsylvania Prison Society and president of the Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Mocquet had the intention of making a circumnavigation of the globe, but he only reached the south of Spain before he had to abort his efforts and returned to Paris.
He himself was not very proficient in Latin although he was a member of several scholarly societies and an educated gentleman.
In her will written in 1700, Phillipa Rosewell directs that her body be buried in Sunbury Church in the same grave as her late husband.
He attended the College of Philadelphia in an institution now named University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, graduating in first class of its medical department in 1768 with a degree in medicine.
Life He was the son of Joseph Fox the elder, and his wife Elizabeth Hingston; and the brother of Edward Long Fox.
Family Source: Joseph Fox (1758–1832) was the son of Joseph Fox (1729–1785) and Elisabeth Hingston (1733–1792).
Weinmann was greatly respected for his writings on medicinal plants and herbs, and Phytanthoza iconographia is recognised as the first important botanical work to use colour engraved prints.
This provides story-enhancing soundtrack, video and animation, and interactive story clues that invite a reader to take part in a real-world transmedia rabbit hole.
Initially separate storylines, the three inevitably join forces to combat a much larger conspiracy that hinges on international espionage and counterterrorism.
and its general fascination with the ways humans can screw up" makes All Our Wrong Todays "pure Vonnegut".
Setting When humanity sent generation ships to colonize the planet Mirabile, the cargo included seed banks and cryopreserved embryos of every Earth species the colonists might need, genetically engineered to produce more Earth species on cue.
Translations into English Given 1980s Cold War anxieties about the possible imminence of nuclear war between NATO and the Warsaw Pact, the book was translated into English in both Canada and the United Kingdom.
However, Borden's apparent poor health, age, and the duplicate Angier's resurgent sense of morality cause him to stop short of murdering the twin.
Gaunt is contacted by an old friend, Fereyd, who warns him that the army's superior, Lord General Dravere, is conspiring to supplant Warmaster Macaroth as supreme commander of the campaign, and something hidden on the campaign's next target world, Menazoid Epsilon, is vital to the conspiracy.
The reason that the Qattagon had gotten out of control and become a problem for Nor'Dyren was because the balance between the four groups had been engineered to be appropriate for worlds that were part of a large interstellar empire.
Due to Ryeland's anti-government actions in the past, the Plan of Man Computer deems him to be a security risk, so he is forced to wear a bomb-equipped collar, which he is hoping to be able to remove.
Titus's perspective also plays an important role in explaining the conditions of society—he speaks in the contemporary vernacular, expresses apathy towards the political events, and detests learning anything beyond what is required of him in School™.
In a mixed review, Budrys criticized Thomas's portrayal of human nature and wrote that he found the plot too meandering, but applauded its characterization of artificial intelligence.
Jason is deposited elsewhere on Elysium and makes his way to the nearby Moon City, the inhabitants of which he begins slaughtering, as a copy of Jason's essence is revealed to exist within Major Tom back in the abandoned Moon Camp Americana.
The later chapters of the story describe the weeks, months and years after the nuclear attack, and are almost exclusively set in Schewenborn.
The Hard-Boiled Wonderland narrative owes much to American hard-boiled detective fiction, as well as to science fiction and cyberpunk.
Together they form an uneasy alliance with The Comprise, the hive mind which rules Earth, and encounter Dysonworlders, who live on genetically engineered artificial comets (Dyson trees).
It contains an exclusive detailed description of Factions and their origin, the inspirations for the trilogy, a quiz on "Factions," and answers by Roth regarding the trilogy.
January 2002, paperback Notes References External links Space title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
The dialogue of Star Begotten makes brief references to Wells' earlier novel, referring to it as having been written by "Jules Verne, Conan Doyle, one of those fellows", as well as the concept of Big Brother, later written into George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four (1949).
"Bright Day": Roxy Kline, a recovering heroin addict, uploads her memories to Mandala and is ready to start a new life.
Each novel covers a specific case; all are Tek-related, but most include sub-plots which involve non-Tek issues and travel out of the GLA, occasionally to other countries or as far as orbiting satellites.
Panicked as his wife and child's deadline approaches, Asakawa tries to figure out why he was spared.
When Taverner arrives at her apartment, the former lover attacks him by throwing a parasitic life-form at him.
The story follows the heroine, Kate Telman, who is 38 and lusts after Stephen Buzetski, who is married.
It is then learned that a cybercrime has been committed in the massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) Avalon Four.
Rife has been using the Raft as a mechanism to indoctrinate and infect thousands with the virus and to import it to America.
Reviews The Los Angeles Times praised "a writer [who] describes something so well—snow, oranges, dirt—that you can smell it or feel it or sense it in the room." The New Yorker enjoyed Harding's "skillful evocation [and] mosaic of memories".
In effect, the network becomes the entire government and financial system, policing income for illegal money, freezing the accounts of criminals, while making sure money (or credit) flows to places where people are in need.
One of the main problems is that he cannot return to the real world to see his father (still in the hospital) or Reiko ever again.
Conclusion Giannine awakens in the arms of Nigel Rasmussem, who turns out to be just sixteen - the physical appearance he displayed earlier was actually his uncle's, and he was the physical model for Giannine's in-game crush Kenric.
Plot introduction Underlying the Basin and Range province of North America, giant caverns, some many miles in diameter, form a network that is occupied by people who have evolved the adaptations (such as pale skin) for living underground.
Fanon Two electronic books have been created by a fan and are considered canon by Baen Barflies, but the canonical status of such works is uncertain.
Og disappears after Wade obtains the First Shard and GSS employee Miles Gendell tells Wade that Nolan Sorrento has broken out of prison.
Compton originally published in 1968 as an Ace Science Fiction Special in the United States and in hardcover by Hodder & Stoughton in Great Britain.
It is written as the logbook of a nobleman who does experimental flights with a hot air balloon and makes stops in various European towns.
Postscript A framing device included in the collected edition, The Domination, is set several years after the events of Drakon.
He learns to survive by scavenging discarded food from littering motorists, and eventually comes to think of the island as his true home.
On behalf of BookPage, Colleen Cahill called GulliverZone "exciting", noting that it "is especially good for those interested in computers and virtual reality".
Plot summary The trilogy's story begins with an investigation by two New York City police detectives (Saul Goodman and Barney Muldoon) into the bombing of Confrontation, a leftist magazine, and the disappearance of its editor, Joe Malik.
Berry, Barck, and Proust believe that the involvement of Steve and Pinker in the study will jeopardize Genetico's $180 million sale to international conglomerate Landsmann, and with it Proust's presidential campaign.
Lisa works with sympathetic police officer, Lieutenant Michelle Delaware, to create a facial composite of the suspect.
He instructs the narrator in his duties, and keeps the narrator’s Shadow effectively a prisoner, putting him to work – disposing of dead beasts who die during winter.
Warp Drive and Field References: Miguel Alcubierre: Classical and Quantum Gravity: Volume 11: L73-L77: 1994.
Like many of Nagata's novels, it contains themes of nanotechnology and genetic engineering, as well as government and corporate corruption, in this case as suppressors of positive and liberating transhumanizing technology.
The novel was named a 2010 Hugo Award nominee in the category for Best Novel and won a 2009 Aurora Award.
Was the Command Line", Stephenson explained the title of the novel as his term for a particular software failure mode on the early Macintosh computer.
Angel has gathered information about the Flock's biological parents, and Max has a sudden vision instructing her to go to the School's other location in New York, the Institute for Higher Living.
The President agrees and launches the Changcheng Strategy, cutting off all telephone, satellite, and wireless communication with the rest of the world, so that word of the culling does not spread beyond China's borders.
It is a strange story of the electrical Daemon, treating of powers that dominate all nature, and written for the eager, alert, and striving American boy." Reprint editions In 1974, the novel was reprinted by Hyperion Press.
By 16 October 2022, Kösemen had written the expanded version up until the Qu's conquest of the galaxy.
Eventually, it is discovered that the entirety of the European network backbone—including its root keyservers—has been compromised by Chinese hackers.
The spheres, which he called Vitons, are sentient and mildly telepathic (they can read people’s minds if they get close enough); they also feed on the electrochemical energy of human emotions.
Jason kills the guard after being briefly unfrozen by Stein, while the interns are vivisected by Stein.
In Denver, Logan and his partner Nadine apprehend a suspect in illegal genetic engineering activities.
References External links Internet Speculative Fiction Database entry of The Clone Codes Library holdings of The Clone Codes
More than either of the previous stories, "Walt and Emily" delights in literary references and games.
From this, Duré realizes that the Bikura are actually the survivors of a group that had attempted to settle this remote region of Hyperion centuries earlier, but were thought lost and dead.
He simultaneously praised the book for posing questions about the impact of scientific advancements on society, calling it Crichton's "smartest novel" for this reason.
That being said, for horror fans who are looking for more chills than thrills, this series may not be the fit for you.
Independent Laboratories is working for the advancement of mankind, and Consolidated Power is working for personal gain.
It was a finalist for several science fiction and fantasy awards, including the Hugo Award and Locus Award.
Joi Ito's Review of Daemon Daemons: IT Keepsakes; Jim Rapoza, eWeek A Book Review: Don Donzal Archived 2017-12-05 at the Wayback Machine, Editor-in-Chief, The Ethical Hacker Network
He then finds out, in complete detail, events from the previous novels, navigating from different angles.
The short story "Jipi and the Paranoid Chip" takes place some time after the events of Cryptonomicon.
Plot summary Pollen is the sequel to Vurt and concerns the ongoing struggle between the real world and the virtual world.
His speculations here jump off the extrapolation track a bit, in my opinion, but they are fascinating, and the ending of this novel takes on a certain logic of its own.
When the Devil Dances (2002) (ISBN 0-7434-3540-0) After five years of battling invaders, human civilization prepares a strike to drive the aliens from the Earth.
Searching for individuals with psychic photography abilities, aided by several other clues from the footage, they find the record of Sadako Yamamura, a young woman born on Izu Oshima Island.
Parasite is a science fiction novel written by Mira Grant (a pseudonym of American author Seanan McGuire).
Devon and Trisha fail to stop Freddy from butchering the three Mnemonic employees but do call and warn Devon's girlfriend, Grace Simmons, and her friend, Ama Oduro, to destroy their copies of the nightmares while Devon checks in on Autumn.
Gunny will immediately go to Eelong and report back later with news while Bobby stays on Veelox because Saint Dane had mentioned that it is on the verge of destruction.
Rhine finds herself forced to marry Linden along with two other girls, 18-year-old Jenna and 13-year-old Cecily.
Drew learns to project these shapes in holographic form and becomes the Lucid Dreamer, a performance artist who places his viewers in a waking dream, the contents of which are determined by the holograms.
The two become fugitives, and Friday travels through the California Confederacy, the Lone Star Republic (where she parts from Georges), and the Chicago Imperium as she attempts to reach her headquarters.
They escape the facility in a helicopter shortly before the facility explodes due to a methane gas leak combined with thermite that Mae had placed in the building.
Crichton offered a rebuttal at the close of the novel which states that a "role-reversal" story uncovers aspects of the subject that would not be as easily seen with a female protagonist.
See also Artificial consciousness Simulation hypothesis Simulated reality Virtual reality References External links Simulacron-3 title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Martin's Press, 1987) X, Y (Dell, 1993) The Healer (Pyr, 2005) Short fiction Collections The Brains of Rats (Scream/Press, 1990).
The Equatorial Barrier contains six "Avenues" on either side of the barrier; each avenue leads up to the naked barrier.
Darwinia is a 1998 science fiction/alternate history novel by American-Canadian writer Robert Charles Wilson.
It also involved controversies where it the books main protagonist, Wade Watts, shows signs of possible objectifying the supporting protagonist of Art3mis, leading to controversies of misogyny.
Other film adaptations An apparently unauthorized adaptation of Crash called Nightmare Angel was filmed in 1986 by Susan Emerling and Zoe Beloff.
After 1927, the book describes an imaginary war from April 1930 to July 1932, in which Robert single-handedly helps the United States to win with his amazing inventions.
After a prologue which purports to explain the origin of the Silkies as an experiment in genetic manipulation, the action moves forward over a hundred years to a future in which the Silkies are numerous and live on Earth.
He suffers from bad dandruff and his skin is pocked by scars from procedures to remove cancerous growths.
The work is Abnett's first published novel, and was also the first novel published under Games Workshop's Black Library imprint.
Amid increasingly chaotic seas, a young Islander named Brett is swept overboard during a rogue wave and presumed lost.
He soon manages to bribe the hotel's clerk into taking him to Kathy Nelson, a forger of government documents.
It is the second book in his The Way series, dealing largely with the aftermath of the decision to split Axis City and abandon the Way in the preceding book, Eon.
He learns that Nennius, another cyborg, was monitoring or guiding Edward, even being the headmaster of his school.
Strathmore asks Fletcher's fiancé David Becker to travel to Seville and recover a ring that Tankado was wearing when he died.
All Tomorrows is yet to be physically published in English, however in July 2024 preorders on the crowdfunding site Unbound began for official hardback and e-book editions in the English language, including additional materials and artwork and the intent to publish 20/21 August 2025.
Plot The Color of Distance is a first-contact novel, detailing an encounter between human and alien cultures.
Alex gives TranceBox copies of the recorded nightmares to his younger brother, Devon, and five of Devon's friends, unknowingly granting more power to Freddy.
In 2017, Jake Kerridge, writing in The Daily Telegraph, declared it to be one of "the 20 best spy novels of all time." Plot summary Decoded tells the story of Rong Jinzhen, an orphaned genius.
It tells the story of "the world's first trillion dollar deal" against a backdrop of Wall Street dealmaking, Washington political intrigue, the relationship of two brothers, and international espionage.
The Mad Mind had devastated the galaxy and its civilizations before being imprisoned in a "strange artificial star" called the Black Sun.
He works in a sea paddock of the coast of Greece where he wrangles the manatees that are being raised to produce human organs for transplant.
These organs have been dosed with V16, engineered to rewrite the genetic codes of the patients into Galen's code.
The gamma ray burst reaches Earth shortly after the conference, destroying the atmosphere and causing a mass extinction.
It is the fourth and final installment in the authorized Blade Runner continuation series, following Blade Runner 3: Replicant Night.
And, secondly, to benefit from the commercial advantages of the Way (despite the risk that the Jarts will be waiting on the other side).
The book revisits the idea of the interaction of humans with Martians, which Wells had first (and famously) presented in The War of the Worlds (1898).
It is a fix-up of her short stories set on the planet Mirabile, which were originally published in Asimov's Science Fiction beginning in 1989; the compilation was published by Tor Books.
During the same time Kenneth Lafarge comes to Earth/2, ending up in a cornfield somewhere in Illinois.
With the aid of the grownup offspring of Lord and Lady Blaine, raised in the company of Mediators brought back by the first expedition, Bury and Renner fight to save the Empire.
Being hard SF, Ark contains many references to unrealised or hypothesised technology (Project Orion, the Alcubierre drive), physics (antimatter), and hypotheses about extraterrestrial life.
GSS employee Faisal Sodhi calls for a GSS co-owners meeting as people keep hacking the ONI headsets to exceed the twelve-hour usage limit.
The title derives from the novel's fictional practice of stage illusions having three parts: the setup, the performance, and the prestige (effect).
A second storyline involves Richard Fettle, a good friend of the murderer, also an untherapied writer, who must come to terms with what happened to his friend and how his artists' lives, and all of the untherapied must change.
Og's character and relationship with Halliday were inspired by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, with Morrow being more like Jobs as a "charismatic tech leader", while his avatar's name is inspired by the Wizard of Oz.
"Wreck City" – Once again set in the "Tech City", now a derelict, trash-ridden city where those abandoned by the corporate-controlled society struggle to survive.
Synopsis Setting In the 2040s, the world has been gripped by an energy crisis from the depletion of fossil fuels and the consequences of pollution, global warming, and overpopulation, causing widespread social problems, poverty, and economic stagnation.
Reviewing for The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction, the science fiction editor and critic Algis Budrys described ME as "a peculiar book I'm very glad to have read".
In the Foreword, Gann hinted that this book is more than just a novel because it "contains a valuable secret, clothed in veiled language.
When one of the project's scientists dies, David Tennant, the ethical caretaker, discovers that he had been killed for his refusal to accept the project's ultimate aim; a merger of the human mind and the machine, in order to produce an unrivalled super computing machine.
They discover that a large shipment of drones have been transported via the ship Ebba Maersk, in a path that will intercept an American navy ship.
Alex, connecting the crystal to his personal computer, enters Edgar's virtual world and meets the boy.
This proves to be a normal stage in the life-cycle of an inhabited solar system; the galaxies are revealed to be filled with such Matrioshka brains.
He feels that it is sucking in his conscious into another world - and desires it to do so - because of his resentment toward his dull life.
He and Mieli escape a liberated Mars having recovered only a mysterious "Schrödinger’s Box" from the Memory Palace.
The next story, entitled "Vermilion Level", was written out to novel length as First and Only and published in 1999.
Spotted by the combatants and fired upon, the two men run for their lives and get separated from each other in the confusion.
Painfully dated, but a must for the collector's library." South Korean writer Djuna cited the work as one that has significantly influenced them in their youth, at the same time noting that "It hasn’t aged well, and it’s particularly criticized for its racist depiction of Asians".
Two Outsider scientists, Luz and Ian, landed on the surface to look for Movement technology and rescue as many locals as they could before the ondat began scouring the planet.
A more mixed review appeared in the London Review of Books, and The Telegraph gave it a relatively neutral review.
Invasive Procedures (2007) is a medical thriller by American writers Orson Scott Card and Aaron Johnston.
Sadako Yamamura: The book's unseen antagonist, who vanished 30 years ago and is also the person behind the incident of the cursed tape.
Kate's story is related to a traumatic event that happened when she was five years old, in which she witnessed her father murder a small boy.
He discovers that Lionel secretly turned the engine back on again, but did not show it to the world.
The novel closes with an email addressed to Hackman that resembles a 419 scam from a Nigerian banker, implying that is where he hid the money.
Allusions/references to actual history, geography and current science New Syon House in the story is a fictional building in London.
King said that the book was "terrific page-turning fun" and Cussler commenting that it is: A brilliantly conceived thriller that could well become horrific reality.
Nature goes berserk, and James Ferguson, the leader of Independent, discovers that Jevic, the Director of Consolidated, has achieved his goal.
Jason murders Bardox, whose last dying act is to rouse London back to consciousness by screaming, "Save yourself!" Jason chases London through the crumbling space station and to the shuttle bay, but London escapes into space in a damaged shuttle, leaving Jason behind on what is left of G7.
The level after that is a snow-covered landscape, where Bobby has to finish a race called slickshot in which six skaters need to pick up red balls and put them into buckets.
Details of the plot do differ, especially from the 1954 film; however, given that these novellas were written by the same author who drafted the scenarios for the famous films, they continue to be read by generations of Japanese readers even today.
Assisted by a security agent and a mathematician, Rand sets out to destroy Project 79 before it is too late.
When the orphanage is attacked by locals who fear the Nexus enhanced children, Jakob arranges a move to another orphanage for him and the children, but cannot bring Sam along.
Realgar, still grieving the death of Berenice but obeying orders, returns to Shora to force the Sharers to obey Patriarchal rule and Valan law.
Sandra Wilford vindictively presents Mendle evidence that his “Dream Lover” is a mere mundane mortal: A driver's license identifying his mystical Aira Flight as a woman from Illinois.
Frank discovers that the vast caverns comprising the realms of Wu and Zu span hundreds of miles, primarily under Nevada, Utah, and Arizona.
In the second half of the book, his genetically engineered son Theobald is born, the climax of generations of genetic engineering and selective breeding and a genetically perfect human.
Caidin revisited this theme a few years later in his novel, Cyborg, which was eventually adapted into the 1970s television series The Six Million Dollar Man.
Some Sharers are willing to attempt violence, while some Valans, both male and female, embrace the Sharer lifestyle and ideals.
Plot summary The novel follows Polly, an ordinary homeless teenager from the near future and Tack, a soldier mentally programmed for obedience to his superiors.
Conner (operating a robotic weapon designed in another stub under Lowbeer's influence) and Burton (operating a peripheral-like exoskeleton) break into the room where Flynne and Wilf are being held.
Pallas is captured by Ma'elKoth, the Emperor of Overworld's human kingdom of Ankhana, on one of her adventures.
It starred Akshay Kumar and Priyanka Chopra in Douglas and Moore's roles with Kareena Kapoor as Kumar's wife.
Its mentality was alien and powerful enough that it took over or killed many of the researchers who attempted to connect to and study it, so it was hidden away deep in the Stone.
And so we colonize, and build." The self-replicating spacecraft are named Gaijin (Japanese for "foreigner"), after their discovery by a Japanese observer on the Moon.
The Star Maker is the creator of the universe, but stands in the same relation to it as an artist to his work, and calmly assesses its quality without any feeling for the suffering of its inhabitants.
A user's skill in managing and producing augmented reality manifests itself in the details of the augmentation.
Television films and series The TekWar novels became a television franchise with TV films in 1994, then a series.
The duplicate Juno has been hollowed out along its long axis, subdivided into seven cylindrical chambers, and rotates to provide artificial gravity.
At the end of the story, it is revealed that the end of time is swiftly approaching and that the universe, the Earth, and all the consciousness that ever existed are really being preserved in a computer-like simulation known as the Archive.
The Glis openly threatens to destroy all Silkies if Cemp moves against it, as the asteroid moves many light-years from the Sun.
One of these survivors calls himself "President Charles Manson," but none of the Apollo's crew understood the historical reference.
When Loki massacres the task force, the Major contains the situation by destroying all evidence (including leveling the building) and personally executing Roy Merritt, fearful that Merritt's pursuit of Loki will attract too much attention.
Plot The story is roughly divided into two parts: before and after 1927, the year in which it was written.
On their way to Elveston she says that Eric broke off their engagement because of her evident discomfort with Eric's lukewarm faith.
After Jason slays two of the station's personnel, Andre Desjardines and Doctor Brandi Essex Williams, Bardox, oblivious to Jason's presence on G7, knocks the rest of the station's crew out by tampering with the air and sets to work modifying the genetic samples he took from Jason.
In Dick's book, the police chief, Felix Buckman, meets a black stranger at an all-night gas station, and uncharacteristically makes an emotional connection with him.
Star Maker tackles philosophical themes such as the essence of life, of birth, decay and death, and the relationship between creation and creator.
Set in a near-future dystopia, the narrative follows Case, a computer hacker enlisted into a crew by a powerful artificial intelligence and a traumatised former soldier to complete a high-stakes heist.
There, Lacan claims that the formation and reassurance of the self depends on the construction of an Other through imagery, beginning with a double as seen in the mirror.
The Ousters have mutated physically, believing that they should adapt to their outer-space surroundings rather than adapt the surroundings themselves.
The novel continues the story of Rick Deckard and other characters as they navigate complex conspiracies surrounding replicants, corporate intrigue, and the ongoing question of what it means to be human.
Priest seems fascinated with reality and how our consciousness creates our reality, and as such could hardly be expected to resist the temptation presented by a subject such as extremely realistic VR simulations.
It limits the excessive reproduction rate that has condemned the Moties to Cycles of overpopulation, followed inevitably by war and the collapse of civilization.
Within the Metaverse, Hiro is offered a datafile named Snow Crash by a man named Raven, who hints that it is a form of narcotic.
All of the twenty-three crew members came down with acute radiation poisoning, and one, Aikichi Kuboyama, died within the year.
See also Autassassinophilia References External links The Terminal Collection: JG Ballard First Editions Crash Archived 5 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine at the British Library
Eventually, a character named Khedron the Jester helps Alvin use the central computer to find a way out of the city of Diaspar.
He assigns his best agent, Nat Dickstein, to steal about two hundred tons of uranium ore for Israel, to pre-empt the potential Egyptian threat and to enable them to build a nuclear bomb themselves.
This snowballing process is paralleled by the expansion of the book's scale, describing more and more planets in less and less detail.
Augmented reality In the novel, augmented reality is dominant, with humans interacting with virtual overlays of reality almost all of the time.
Genre and subject matter Cryptonomicon is closer to the genres of historical fiction and contemporary techno-thriller than to the science fiction of Stephenson's two previous novels, Snow Crash and The Diamond Age.
The device sends the data to a miniature computer, or "eyePod", which reprocesses the signals and returns them.
U-T San Diego and the Denver Post both gave positive reviews, with U-T San Diego calling it a "whopping good story".
The campaign reached its goal in only ten days, suggesting an ongoing public awareness and cult-like fondness for the novel.
In other works At the end of Sherlock Holmes's War of the Worlds (1975), Professor Challenger indicates that the "Martians" (not really from Mars in the story) from The War of the Worlds are the same Martians from Star Begotten, and hints at the start of the Martian alteration program.
Overall, Eye and Talon has been recognized for reinforcing the thematic continuity of the Blade Runner novels while providing a suspenseful and morally complex finale, cementing Jeter’s role in extending the Blade Runner literary legacy.
Back on the farm she finally rushes at Sir Deming in frustration and tries to bite his ring off his finger, but he takes out a knife and stabs her.
Julius finally "cracks" when he sees his dreams turned to dust and he bashes up the attractions in the Hall of Presidents, in the process also damaging his own cranial interface to the point that he can no longer back himself up.
Though the Martians attempt to destroy the fleet using their device, they underestimate the power of the battleships' guns, which succeed in destroying the Collector.
During a test of the generator an error occurs and before she can get clear she is caught by the wormhole and is sent to an alternate Earth, called Earth/2.
A 1949 musical film features Bing Crosby and Rhonda Fleming, with music by Jimmy Van Heusen and Victor Young.
The Tendu elder Anito, initially tasked with Juna's survival and resenting her deeply, eventually comes to assume full responsibility for Juna as her atwa, a Tendu word signifying a domain of specialized knowledge and expertise.
Groups gather to defend their rights to the swimming pools, and party-goers attack "enemy floors" to raid and vandalise them.
Almost all humans possess neural computer interfaces known as "augs", which allow them to access online information, view augmented reality displays, translate speech in real-time and operate telepresence robots.
"The Screen Game" has no unusual technologies, but an unusual aesthetic - jewels and screens dominate.
While at school, Caitlin decides to take a break from her work and switches the eyePod to duplex mode so she can look through websight.
Galen takes his research underground, eventually devising a virus that can carry specific genes into human cells.
D always wears a mystical blue pendant; it prevents many of the automatic defenses (such as laser fields and small nuclear blasters) created by the Nobility in past millennia from working properly and allows him to enter their sealed castles.
The two travel to Kamakura, where Ryūji knows someone with a personal archive of paranormal cases from Japan.
Lindsay's partner, Wellspring, plans to use the colony to promote his post-humanist ideology, while Lindsay himself seeks to bring Nora to the new colony.
Critical reception Sharanya Manivannan of GQ India wrote "The Machine is Learning is a timely reminder of the stark human cost of tech’s unstoppable march" and Percy Bharucha of Hindustan Times wrote "A novel whose characters are at the heart of the man-versus-machine debate".
Plot summary A group of lawyers are meeting to take down Telecon corporations when suddenly they are all hit with a rhinovirus that the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) classifies as "CaV".
Before he died, Fereyd tried to convince Gaunt that the Men of Iron could have been used to aid the Imperial forces as much as the Chaos forces.
When discovered, he quickly triggers an attack which leaves most of the people and agents there dead.
Ross can contest the will as the product of Chandler's undue influence, as Ross will inherit Monica's property if Chandler's behavior disqualifies Chandler from inheriting (however, many jurisdictions do not consider a threat of divorce to be undue influence).
The plaintiff must still prove all of the same facts that would be the plaintiff's burden, had the action been brought against the insured.
The judge for the case noted that neither side could definitively prove who owned the rights, as Jackson was deceased and Muhammad was 'elusive'.
For the construction of references to Statutes of Distribution, see section 50 of the Administration of Estates Act 1925 and section 19 of the Administration of Estates Act (Northern Ireland) 1955.
Generally, a reporting on the ORSA will contain two parts: A qualitative report: Description of the risk profile and risk management processes in place; A quantitative report: Description of the quantitative methodologies used in the context of the ORSA, results, defined strategy, and conclusions.
Promoters of companies sometimes aggregate their shares in a voting trust to safeguard control of the company.
For example: In fire insurance, an adjustment clause provides that in the event of loss or damage at any location mentioned in the policy, the amount of insurance in force at that location shall be prorated to the burned and unburned portions of the property.
A remedial constructive trust is a type of constructive trust recognised in Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, Canada and the United States, which allows courts to give a discretionary property remedy for breaches of certain obligations, or to acknowledge various rights.
In the BBC drama Life on Mars, in the seventh episode of the first series, an inquest is carried out into the death of a prisoner in the police station.
Ademption, or ademption by extinction, is a common law doctrine used in the law of wills to determine what happens when property bequeathed under a will is no longer in the testator's estate at the time of the testator's death.
According to the United States Department of Agriculture, since 1910, the heir property system has been responsible for African American landowners losing 80% of the farming land owned by previous generations.
In 1979, California's highest court refuted that argument and further expanded the scope of the tort by holding that inadequate investigation of a claim was actionable in tort as a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
Some jurisdictions apply different combinations of the rules in income tax, capital gains tax and inheritance tax.
Motor injury claims and whiplash reforms Motor insurance claims costs in the United Kingdom have been influenced by reforms to low value road traffic personal injury claims, particularly those involving whiplash.
By aggregating their shares, the shareholders can confer this power on themselves collectively where they might not have it individually.
If the likelihood of an insured event is so high, or the cost of the event so large, that the resulting premium is large relative to the amount of protection offered, it is not likely that anyone will buy insurance, even if on offer.
When an individual flees the scene of an accident without leaving sufficient information to identify him or herself, the individual is considered uninsured for the purposes of an uninsured motorist provision.
It was signed into law on September 26, 1996, and requires plans that offer maternity coverage to pay for at least a 48-hour hospital stay following childbirth (96-hour stay in the case of a cesarean section).
Alternatively, the full sum assured may be paid on diagnosis of the critical illness, but then no further payment is made on death, effectively making the critical illness payment an 'accelerated death payment'.
Realtors are independent contractors and are representative of the plight of many independent contractors and small business employees in Connecticut in that they do not have access to group health insurance.
He also assumed that they had stop loss insurance for a total of £100,000 subject to an excess of £25,000 (so the name would have to pay out £25,000 of their own money before the stop loss insurance kicked in).
Administrative law in the United States In American administrative law, incorporation by reference is a drafting tool that enables federal agencies to give legal effect to materials that are already published elsewhere.
Such a jury was made up of up to twenty-three men, and required the votes of twelve to render a decision.
Other charities are excepted from the need to register but are still subject to the supervision of the Charity Commission.
In insurance, an agent of record (AOR) is an individual or legal entity, an agent, that represents an insurance policy holder and typically receives commissions on the premiums.
In Australia, each of the states has followed the English approach to perpetuities, with statutory modification.
A specific legacy (or specific bequest) is a testamentary gift of a precisely identifiable object, distinguished from all other things of the same kind — such as, a gift of a particular piece of jewelry.
At common law, if the residuary estate was divided between two or more beneficiaries, and one of those beneficiaries was unable to take, the share that would have gone to that beneficiary would instead pass by intestacy, under the doctrine that there was no residuary of a residuary.
Generally, TPD provided by super funds will require that you have been off work for a period of at least 6 months before they will consider a claim.
In any case, even among the adopting jurisdictions, there are variations from state to state, some of which are significant.
In contrast, because independent counsel is separate from the insurer, their billing rates will be somewhat higher since they merely must bill the "reasonable" rate for their defense services.
Among all social classes, childless couples or those who wanted to expand the size of their families instead might foster children.
Proponents of no-fault insurance Proponents of no-fault insurance argue that automobile collisions are inevitable and that at-fault drivers are not necessarily higher risk and should not necessarily be punished.
Trusts & Estates is a wealth management journal published by Informa which covers trust law and estates.
"Shady Helpers" is a form of ambulance chasing that usually happens after a genuine crash has occurred.
Upon the coming into force of that Act, Canadian Western Bank, together with other chartered banks, brought an application for a declaration: that their promotion of certain insurance products authorized by the Bank Act was banking within the meaning of s.
However, each annuity payment when received will be partially taxable on the share of capital gains, depreciation recapture and ordinary income included in the payment.
In an attempt to mitigate the perceived harshness of the common law rule, and to maximise the possible length of time for which trusts in particular could subsist, lawyers began to draft so-called royal lives clauses.
The rigid structure can be a source of frustration and conflict among beneficiaries who may feel constrained by outdated provisions or disagree with the trustee's interpretation or management, potentially leading to disputes and litigation.
There is a small market for reversions in real estate, which necessitates a buyer to carry out enhanced documentary due diligence and physical checks.
Beneficiary designations are considered distributions under contract law and cannot be changed by statements or provisions outside the contract, such as a clause in a will.
Trustee investment policies will also allow emphasis on either present income (which may reduce the real value of the capital) or capital growth (increasing income in the long term and capital remaining when the interest in possession is terminated) or a balance.
This Act should render insurance benefits payable to domestic partners more easily, without reference to inconsistent and confusing statutory and case law definitions of what constitutes a "dependent" under California law.
In a Fixed trust, the distribution of income to the beneficiaries is fixed and can not be changed by the trustee.
Bare trusts are often used to pass assets to young people - the trustees look after them until the beneficiary is old enough.
Cumis Insurance Society, Inc., which the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District decided on December 3, 1984.
Orr failed to qualify three times over the next six races, with his best finish in the three races which he qualified for being 34th, at Richmond International Raceway in the third race of the season, and Bristol International Raceway in the seventh.
The insurer will often wish to settle claims as quickly and cheaply as possible, but the insured may be concerned that paying on a claim implies negligence which will damage their professional reputation, and want to contest the claim regardless.
Individuals may give away as much as $17,000 per year (in 2023) to another person without incurring gift tax or using up any of their lifetime exemption amount.
2004), (UnumProvident, now referred to as Unum or Unum Group), is a landmark decision by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals on the issue of disability bad faith insurance law.
In the pre-classical period, a testator was required to nominate an heir in order for his will to be valid (heredis institutio).
It took Werner Eck's work to refute the identification decisively and show the testator did not belong to that gens.
A perpetual chantry consisted of one or more priests, in a private free-standing chapel, usually licensed by the local bishop (such as the surviving one at Noseley, Leicestershire) or in an aisle of a greater church.
See also Investment fund References External links A comprehensive overview of pooled income funds by the Planned Giving Design Center Pooled income funds FAQ
Because Joey bought a new car to get a more comfortable ride, rather than to change a will without going through the testamentary formalities, the gift to Rachel remains enforceable.
In the context of an insurance policy, the condition is generally the death of the insurance contract holder; the party who benefits is referred to as the primary beneficiary.
The executor's duties also include distributing property to the beneficiaries as designated in the will, obtaining information of potential heirs, collecting and arranging for payment of debts of the estate and approving or disapproving creditors' claims.
Australia In Australia, the justification for the imposition of a remedial constructive trust has been based on the notion of an "unconscionable denial of beneficial interest", usually in property.
History After the Norman conquest of England, the Church succeeded in allowing a person to leave part of his property to the church to fund its activities.
Trust law enters civilian jurisdictions through conflict of law arrangements recognizing it as a matter of private international law and has been implemented in the civil code of certain countries such as Liechtenstein and Curaçao.
In response to such arguments judges will often adopt mandatory disclosure obligations for bankruptcy trust claims.
History Historically, issues surrounding powers of attorney were based on the common law concept of agency.
Only the Nippon Cultural Broadcasting recording is available for the opening part of the speech, but the Fuji Television recording gives a clearer sound to the latter half of the speech.
The majority of insurance companies will not disclose information or discuss an insured party's account with an agent other than the agent of record.
With the accession of the United Kingdom to the European Community, the trust entered Community Law; the law of the member state where the trust is constituted (the situs) is designated as the applicable law (the law that must be followed) in member states.
The Insurance Act, 1938 is a law originally passed in 1938 in British India to regulate the insurance sector.
Although not a party to the trust itself, the probate court is a necessary component of the trust's activity.
Before such fiduciary obligations can be imported there must be specific circumstances in the relationship that call for their imposition.
For example, the building may be insured at replacement cost value, most of the contents insured at actual cash value and a few specific items at a fixed value (antiques).
Provisions Revived and continued enactments Section 1 of the act continued the Death between Verdict and Judgment Act 1665 (17 Cha.
See also After-acquired property Contract law Prenuptial agreement Insurance law Mortgage law == References ==
In one of the most famous decisions of his career (involving Jerry Buss's bad faith lawsuit against Transamerica), Justice Stanley Mosk wrote: [W]e can, and do, justify the insurer's duty to defend the entire 'mixed' action prophylactically, as an obligation imposed by law in support of the policy.
Cultural references More than a century after the novel's publication, Jarndyce and Jarndyce continues to be used as an example of the futility and length of civil court cases.
The Uniform Probate Code (commonly abbreviated UPC) is a uniform act drafted by National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws (NCCUSL) governing inheritance and the decedents' estates in the United States.
If a contingent beneficiary is not named, the default provision in the contract or custodian agreement applies.
Generally, rules require these elements or factors: "they cannot exist beyond the period of the rule against perpetuities, and their amounts cannot be unreasonably large for the purpose to be accomplished ..
Broadly speaking, without an immediate family or a relationship that is recognized by law there is no insurable interest.
The bill was created with the intent of preserving historical information regarding slave owners and their slaves in order to provide genealogical research information for slave descendants as well as to preserve possible evidence for potential reparation claims.
While the "Solvency I" Directive was aimed at revising and updating the current EU Solvency regime, Solvency II has a much wider scope.
A conditional bequest is a bequest that will be granted only if a particular event has occurred by the time of its operation.
For a settlor to validly create a trust, in most common law legal systems they must satisfy the three certainties, established in Knight v Knight: certainty of intention – whether the settlor (or testator) has manifested an intention to create a trust.
Livia, the wife of Augustus, outlived him, and only upon his death did testamentary adoption make her a part of the Julian family.
Among the benefits were a lump-sum distribution from the Bell System Savings Plan for Salaried employees (in the amount of $151,628.94); the amount was rolled over in to an Individual Retirement Account which was untouched during Isaac's lifetime, and at Issac's death was worth $180,778.05.
The fixed annuity percentage must be at least 5% and no more than 50% of the fair market value of the assets in the corpus.
Estate planning or inheritance planning is the process of anticipating and arranging for the management of a person's estate or net worth during the person's life in preparation for future incapacity or death.
Another point of controversy was whether or not the second testator had to benefit from the initial disposition.
Overview Collective trusts are commonly used for defined benefit plans and, when daily valuation is possible, for defined contribution plans.
Such an approach undermines the Convention’s purpose to establish a virtually unbreakable limit on liability and does not accord with its text.
Philo of Alexandria and Josephus also comment on the Jewish laws of inheritance, praising them above other law codes of their time.
Even though this position was established long before 1634, no official records can be found prior to this date.
An infamous example is Re Diplock [1951] Ch 253, which resulted in the suicide of one of the trustees who was personally liable to account for trust funds that had been disbursed for what he thought were perfectly valid charitable trusts.
At last, in BCCI (Overseas) Ltd v Akindele it was held that the degree of knowledge for knowing receipt is knowledge that makes it unconscionable for recipient to retain benefit of receipt.
Texas) probate courts also handle other matters, such as guardianships, trusts, and mental health issues (including the authority to order involuntary commitment to psychiatric facilities and involuntary administering psychiatric medication).
102(a)'s exclusion of "bequests" from gross income included those made in consideration for services and whether the "detached and disinterested" standard applied to gifts made at death-time.
The disclaimer must also occur before the disclaiming party has enjoyed any benefits of the trust or inheritance.
In those early days, insurance was intrinsically coupled with the expansion of mercantilism, and the exploration (and exploitation) of new sources of gold, silver, spices, furs, and other precious goods - including slaves - from the New World.
It takes between twenty and fifty years from first exposure to the development of asbestos-caused cancer, so work histories, employment, military and social security records are used to help prove the plaintiff's exposure to various asbestos products throughout his or her career.
It was believed that people would be less likely to drive while impaired or intoxicated if insurance companies could deny medical payments or other claims associated with any injuries associated with the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Under the law, only the interest and other income would be spent, while the principal would accumulate.
The inability to sell the residence is a major restriction on the flexibility of a PRT and usually makes QPRTs more desirable.
To avoid confusion as to what may or may not be adeemed, sometimes the phrase "if owned by me at my death" is placed into the articles of a will in which property is being bequeathed.
Muschinski v Dodds (1985) 160 CLR 583 Baumgartner v Baumgartner (1987) 164 CLR 137 Canada Lac Minerals Ltd.
Second, it prevents the surviving spouse from taking too large an elective share, if the decedent had already transferred substantial assets to the spouse.
The tax reliefs also promote awareness of the sector and increased the attractiveness of indirect employee ownership structures for businesses which might be considering converting.
The business is to be held and managed for the benefit of persons who hold transferable certificates issued by the trustees showing the shares into which the beneficial interest in the property is divided.
The Restatement 3d of Trusts (Section 26) and the Restatement 3d of Property (Section 7.1 comment i) also recognize its validity.
The will may identify the taker of the residuary estate through a residuary clause or residuary bequest.
He assumed in each case that each of the names had suffered a net underwriting loss for the year of £160,000.
Now as a viable 1031 exchange replacement property option through a DST, individual investors have the ability to invest in a diversified selection of institutional quality, investment property types that they otherwise could not purchase individually.
In that case, the company is required to investigate the damage, determine whether the damage is covered, and pay the proper value for the damaged property.
In the event of the settlor dying within seven years, this retained "bag of rights" should in theory be returned to their personal representatives.
In Islamic law, as practiced for example in Saudi Arabia, forced heirship is the rule and testaments are fairly rare.
See also Beneficiary (trust) Beneficial ownership Birth certificate Estate planning Inheritance Legal fiction Registered owner == References ==
When there is no duke (the lifetime ('inter vivos') owner), the interest in possession reverts to the pre-1337 owner, the Crown.
See also List of individual cats List of individual dogs List of individual apes List of wealthiest families Rachel Hirschfeld References External links "Providing For Your Pets In The Event of Your Death or Hospitalization".
It is any "person who makes a will." Related terms A female testator is sometimes referred to as a testatrix (), plural testatrices (), particularly in older cases.
An offshore trust is a conventional trust that is formed under the laws of an offshore jurisdiction.
If there is no such chance of loss, the transaction may have the form of insurance, but not the substance.
Definitions A specific devise, is a specific gift in a will to a specific person other than an amount of money.
In 1969, the ULC promulgated the Uniform Probate Code, which created a basis for a national framework for powers of attorney.
The exception is recognized to benefit minors, incompetents, and trust beneficiaries that may otherwise behave as a spendthrift would.
Be impartial among beneficiaries: the trustee must act impartially between individual beneficiaries as well as between different classes of beneficiaries.
The words which are properly and commonly used to install a fideicommissum are 'I beg', 'I ask', 'I wish', 'I entrust'; these [words] are therefore sufficient individually, but also if all combined.
Reasoning First, the court found Merriam inapplicable because there was a dispute as to whether the parties had, in fact, contracted for services, whereas it was undisputed that Wolder and Boyce had contracted and performed.
The purpose of a SPA Trust is to protect assets from a person's potential future liabilities by removing the assets from the person's legal ownership.
The UTC attempts to standardize the general composition of both trust forms and their requirements, but does not generally attempt to address the procedural questions as to overall subject-matter jurisdiction and other aspects of proceedings involving trusts.
The doctrine first arose in the English courts of equity, originating in the law of charitable trusts, but it has since been applied in the context of class action settlements in the United States.
10) until the next session of parliament 7 years after the start of the present session of parliament.
Relationship poisoning is a process by which a person instills thoughts and beliefs in their victim causing them to distrust third-parties.
Acquisition of a business When one business purchases another business, the purchasing business may want to set aside part of the purchase price and defer its payment to the payee upon the satisfaction of conditions to which both parties agree.
A hospitalized Health insurance Scheme of maximum of 25,000 LKR and a Housing Loan Scheme of maximum of 50,000 LKR can be obtained during the membership period.
Class actions In 1986, the California Supreme Court endorsed cy-près mechanisms in class action settlements, and other American courts followed.
The appeal, of course, must possess merit; the party may cite improper judgement by the Court or claim another individual possessed mandatory entitlement to appointment.
Delayed filings and failure to disclose Plaintiffs attorneys routinely delay filing claims against asbestos bankruptcy trusts in order to facilitate lawsuits against solvent defendants.
May be of use where property is to be held and invested on behalf of a minor child or mentally incapacitated person.
If all of the beneficiaries of the trust are adults and of sound mind, then they can terminate the trust under the rule in Saunders v Vautier, and require the trustees to transfer absolute legal title to the trust assets to the beneficiaries.
The plaintiff-respondent won against the defendant, successfully proving that the refusal to settle his property damage claim after a significant fire was vexatious.
Australia In Australia, probate can refer to the process of proving the will of a deceased person and also to a grant of probate, the legal document that is obtained.
Sometimes the charity is named as trustee, other times it is a third party such as an attorney, a bank or a financial advisor.
For example, suppose Joey agrees to execute a will bequeathing his house to Rachel in exchange for services provided by Rachel.
14), also known as the Abolition of Chantries Act 1547 or the Chantries Act 1547, was an act of the Parliament of England.
Categorization There are various ways in which beneficiaries of trusts can be categorised, depending upon the nature and need of the categorisation.
Ukraine Under article 1247 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, wills are required to be in writing, with a signature and the indication of place and date of its execution.
The final text of the Uniform Trust Code (UTC) was approved by the ULC commissioners in August 2000.
The plaintiff driver returned to Ontario to collect a provincial no-fault benefit from Unifund Assurance.
Exegesis This fragment dates to the reign of Caesar Augustus, who first decreed certain requirements for the institution of the fideicommissum.
The CRUT may not let any of its assets be used for the benefit of anyone other than the annuity recipient, the qualified charitable beneficiary, or a charitable organization as described in section 170(c).
If the intended beneficiary predeceases the settlor, then the gift will lapse, and will generally not be saved by an anti-lapse statute.
A direct-action lawsuit is brought directly against an insurance company for a wrong done by the insured.
Not only are they invariably always executed under seal as a deed, but frequently the initial trust fund (usually a nominal amount), will actually be physically affixed to the trust instrument itself to prove that the initial trust property was transferred.
This is why online networks and digital executors require proof of death such as a certificate from a family member of the deceased person in order to acquire access to accounts.
See also Merger doctrine (civil procedure) Merger doctrine (family law) Merger doctrine (property law) == References ==
Protective trusts are subject to challenge under creditor protection legislation as are any other forms of asset-protection.
Prior to the 2012 amendment, only killers found guilty of murder in the first or second degree would be disinherited under Arizona's slayer rule.
The extent to which other states will recognize the asset protections of these DAPTs, like those created under the laws of Nevada and Alaska, is unclear due to a somewhat sparse body of relevant case law.
In American estate planning parlance, an incentive trust is a trust designed to encourage or discourage certain behaviors by using distributions of trust income or principal as an incentive.
While such a trust would normally be void for lack of a beneficiary, many jurisdictions have carved out two specific exceptions to this rule: trusts for the care of that person's pets; and trusts to provide for the maintenance of cemetery plots.
This arrangement differs from a bank trustee or a corporate trustee, both of which mainly focus on legalities and accounting in the public arena.
Trusts & Trustees is a peer-reviewed law journal published ten times per year by Oxford University Press.
While such a clause will not necessarily prevent a claim against an estate by a pretermitted heir, it may make it more difficult to succeed in such an action.
It is usually seen as one of two liabilities established in Barnes v Addy, the other one being knowing receipt.
The company can use what is done on the pillar 1 such as a measure of risk, a time horizon and/or a different security level most suitable to its strategy for controlling the risks.
It came into effect on 12 August 2016, and follows on from the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 ("CIDRA").
Thirty-six states currently allow alcohol exclusions in health care insurance policies via either explicit exclusions or implicit exclusions determined by legal precedence.
The final version of the original UPC was promulgated in 1969 as a joint project between NCCUSL and the Real Property, Probate and Trust Law Section of the American Bar Association.
As it became usual to delegate the petitions to the Lord Chancellor it became common for petitioners to simply address the Lord Chancellor directly and not the King giving rise to the Court of Chancery.
In 2018, the US Supreme Court decided to hear an appeal of the Ninth Circuit decision in In re Google Referrer Header Privacy Litigation, 10-cv-04809, U.S.
No-contest clause in wills Unless there is probable cause, no-contest clauses are permitted by the Uniform Probate Code.
In the 2024 Autumn Budget, the UK government introduced changes impacting Employee Ownership Trusts (EOTs).
Geki is a 10-paragraph piece of text, converting it into about nine pages long in manuscript paper, densely written in Mishima's own handwriting across two sheets of B4 paper.
If no such clause is present, however, the residuary estate will pass to the testator's heirs by intestacy.
Application The Act applies to all new insurance contracts entered into or renewed from 12 August 2016, and also to amendments to insurance made from that date.
CLS Bank International decision by the Supreme Court of the United States, holding that an abstract idea does not become patentable just because it is implemented on a computer.
The journal covers trust law and practice, including case notes on topical cases and updates on trends and developments from around the world.
Australian insurance law is based on commercial contract law, but is subject to regulations that affect the insurance industry and insurance contracts within Australia.
The Insurance Contracts Act 1984 (ICA) applies to most insurance contracts with an Australian connection and is intended to ensure that a fair balance is struck between the interests of the insurer and the insured.
Despite being recorded as the representative name for the syndicate in the litigation, Lord Napier was not actually insured by the stop loss insurers, and so was not affected by the judgment.
There is no recovery from the employee and the liability of this contribution lies solely with the employer.
This can result in substantially greater wealth being available for later generations compared to scenarios where assets are taxed at each generational transfer.
The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission (ACCC) also has a regulatory role with respect to competition law.
In addition, transactions involving interests in collective trusts generally do not require an entity to register as a broker-dealer under Section 15(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
At the end of the trust period, the shares would ordinarily be re-transferred to the beneficiary, although in practice many voting trusts contain provisions for them to re-vested on the voting trusts with identical terms.
intestate) and has no blood relative who can be easily traced, the estate is claimed by the King's and Lord Treasurer's Remembrancer on behalf of the Crown.
By the time of the Codex Justinianus, the formal requirements for wills had relaxed, while requirements for codicils had become more stringent.
The Registrar and staff administer the local Probate Court, typically for a given county, acting partly as public customer service and partly as clerks for the probate judge (who may or may not be elected).
The encoded documents are the transaction sets, sorted in functional groups, used in defining transactions for business data interchange.
Both countries are also known for offering asset protection annuities, with a six-month statute of limitations on fraudulent transfers into an annuity.
Politics became devoted to covering up contradictions, self-preservation, lust for power, and hypocrisy, the nation's long-term plans were left to foreign country, the shame of defeat was not wiped away but merely whitewashed, and the Japanese themselves desecrated Japan's history and traditions.
It was designed to "reduce losses to properties for which repetitive flood insurance claim payments have been made." The Act's main sponsors were Sen.
In some voting trusts, the trustee may also be granted additional powers (such as to sell or redeem the shares).
Statutes that authorize self-proved wills typically provide that a will that contains this language will be admitted to probate without affidavits from the attesting witnesses.
patent 6,567,790, and is entitled "Establishing and managing grantor retained annuity trusts funded by nonqualified stock options".
Stalley, a Michigan lawyer relied on the official text of the Uniform Probate Code and failed to check the statute as it had been adopted in Florida.
As of 2025, the Sonnenberg decision has been cited more than sixty times in Canadian court judgments and legal commentaries.
The power is divided into two broad categories: general powers of appointment and special powers of appointment.
In September 2012, according to the Institute for Policy Studies, "over 60 percent" of the Forbes richest 400 Americans "grew up in substantial privilege", and often (but not always) received substantial inheritances.
A lender who advances funds for the purpose of discharging a security may be entitled to be subrogated to the third party's security as against the borrower.
2007) was a Missouri court case which set out the legal test to demonstrate bad faith by an insurer.
To ensure comprehensive input, they consulted with advisors and legal groups like the Joint Editorial Board for Uniform Trusts and Estates Acts and ACTEC's Committee on State Laws.
This may be because the child was incorrectly believed to be dead, or was adopted by the testator after the will was drafted.
Jainism The Jain ethical code contains the vow of brahmacarya (meaning "pure conduct"), which prescribes the expectations for Jains concerning sexual activity.
Trial of Louis XVI and First Republic Many red priests voted for the death of Louis XVI during his trial, just like Father Jean Bassal, the parish priest of Versailles and deputy from Seine-et-Oise, who voted for the death of the king, against reprieve and against appealing to the people.
He must not create the causes, conditions, methods, or karma of killing, and shall not intentionally kill any living creature.
However, following Eduard Sievers, it is usually now spelled with a short o and taken as meaning "herd boar, leading boar", as Lombardic sonarþair is defined in the Edictus Rothari as the boar "which fights and beats all other boars in the herd".
The 1704 oath of allegiance for Catholics was replaced in 1774 by Roman Catholic Relief Act 1773 [13 & 14 Geo.
(G) Even if I cannot heal a patient with the proper diet, proper medicine and proper nursing I will still minister to him, out of compassion.
A breach of the precept is considered more serious if the falsehood is motivated by an ulterior motive (rather than, for example, "a small white lie").
The oath marked the culmination of Pius X's campaign against the theological movement of Modernism, which he analyzed and denounced as heretical in his 1907 encyclicals Pascendi Dominici gregis and Lamentabili sane exitu.
Vows The following are the 22 vows administered by Ambedkar to his followers: I shall have no faith in Brahma, Vishnu and Maheshwara, and I shall not worship them.
It is believed by Ambedkarite Buddhists that these vows are the guidelines of the social revolution that motivates human instincts.
In the Catholic Church, the vow of obedience is one of the three vows of professing to live according to the evangelical counsels.
The sisters known as "extern sisters" (or "externs") do not make this additional vow in order to be able to handle some of the community's needs outside the papal enclosure.
Once he had received holy orders or made a religious profession, however, any marriage he contracted was considered null and void.
Male members of the church who meet standards of worthy behavior and church participation are generally ordained to specific offices within the priesthood.
We decree in accordance with the definitions of the sacred canons, that marriages already contracted by such persons must be dissolved, and that the persons be condemned to do penance.
Like the pārājikas, the saṅghādisesas can only come about through the monk's own intention and cannot be accidentally invoked.
This established a formal split among the Saint Thomas Christians into two factions: the Pazhayakuttukar, or "Old Allegiance," loyal to the Catholic Church under Bishop Palliveettil Chandy, and the Puthankuttukar, or "New Allegiance," led by Thoma I.
It remained in force until the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, with the approval of Paul VI, replaced it (along with the Tridentine Profession of Faith) with a revised profession of faith in 1967.
See also Credo of the People of God (profession of faith of Pope Paul VI) References Sources Patrologia Latina, 105, columns 9-188
The second symbol, a crescent with a disc, is the symbol of Baʿal Ḥammon; it appears on stelae dedicated to both Tinnit and Baal Hammon or only to Baal Hammon, but does not appear on stelae dedicated only to Tinnit.
Vows from the Avataṃsaka Sūtra The Avataṃsaka Sūtra, a large composite text, contains various passages discussing the practices and vows that bodhisattvas undertake.
Institute of Indology, This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain.
Ambiguous expressions in some anti-Catholic writings could lead incautious readers to suppose that the text in the Liber Diurnus Romanorum Pontificum was used by all newly elected Popes until the eleventh century and that it had been in use since the fifth century.
Purpose In the context of uposatha practice, observing the eight precepts is described by the Buddha in the early texts as "cleansing of the sullied mind through expedient means" (Pali: upakkamena).
In some periods and places the precepts were widely observed, such as in 7th–10th-century China by government officials.
In later texts, details such as intercourse at an inappropriate time or inappropriate place are also counted as breaches of the third precept.
It was conceived that the first act was evaded in consequence of those who had a right to avail themselves of it not doing so.
As for those who repent, believe, and do good deeds, they are the ones whose evil deeds Allah will change into good deeds.
However, a bishop – who, in the Orthodox Church, must always be a monk – may tonsure a monk or nun into any degree regardless of his own monastic rank.
Reviewing Halakhic and Aggadic literature, Jacob Neusner writes that Jewish sages generally viewed the vow of the nazirite to be shrouded in "arrogance" and "weakness".
However, the 1917 Code abolished the distinction according to which solemn vows, unlike simple vows, were indissoluble.
Symbolic penalties were common as teaching methods in the 1800s in oath-bound societies (e.g., Freemasonry, etc.), and were inspired in the Church not only by such societies but also by Biblical and Book of Mormon texts.
If a Nazirite touches a corpse or carries a funeral bier, or goes into a building that contains a corpse, their vow is ended as unfulfilled.
See also Ad tuendam fidem Humani generis Providentissimus Deus References External links The original Latin text of Sacrorum antistitum English translation of Sacrorum antistitum in The American Catholic Quarterly Review (October 1910: vol.
Fourth century The Council of Elvira (306) is often seen as the first to issue a written regulation requiring clergy to abstain from sexual intercourse.
And may that sulphur and pitch flow down upon your neck that flowed over Sodom and Gomorrah, and the same pitch that flowed over Babylon flow over you, but two hundred times more, and may the earth envelop and swallow you up as it did Dathan and Abiram.
Mary of Loretto, in the marc of Ancona, territory of the pope, which is the house where Our Lady has performed so many miracles, this fell upon a sailor of Puerto de Santa Maria, called Pedro de Villa; the Admiral promised to furnish him with money for his expenses.
In Roman Catholicism, a declaration of faith may be used in various circumstances, both for purpose of conversion and of reaffirmation.
Others had more practical objections, knowing that deep-seated religious beliefs would not be eliminated quickly, and that mobilizing popular support for the Revolution was of top importance.
The Criminal Law Commission's 1845 report on oaths said sections 1, 3, and 6 of the 1704 act had fallen into disuse and should be repealed.
Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar and Jómsvíkinga saga In Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar and Jómsvíkinga saga, accounts are given of the same memorial feast as in Fagrskinna.
Section 12 was a proviso to section 10 to allow the eldest son to inherit the whole estate (by primogeniture) if he was a Protestant, or converted within three months of his father's death.
Thousands of priests, monks, and nuns believed that taking the oath meant risking their salvation; yet they had to choose between that and the danger of arrest and punishment.
These finger rings are typically made of silver or gold, although bronze and lead have also been found, and can have settings for gems or coloured glass; in the case of the Wheatley Hill rings, the settings seem to have been added after the inscription as it partially obscures the runes.
On that anniversary, the Fête de la Fédération, Talleyrand and three hundred priests officiated at the "altar of the nation" erected on the Champ de Mars, wearing tricolor waistbands over their priestly vestments and calling down God's blessing upon the Revolution.
Since the 18th century, consecrators and episcopal lineage were extended to the Benedictine monks-bishops.
Because early Buddhism did not claim that all physical conditions, injury and illness included, are necessarily caused by past karma, it saw the physicians role to be a vital one.
Keep yourselves from evil to take the name of the Lord in vain, for I am the Lord your God, even the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob.
New bishops were forbidden from seeking confirmation from the Pope, but were allowed to write him to inform him of their position and reassert a unity of faith.
(C) Sappāyāsappāyaṁ jānissāmi, asappāyaṁ apanāmessāmi; sappāyaṁ upanāmessāmi, asappāyaṁ nāpanāmessāmi.
A third lot was determined upon, for the selection of a person who should watch a whole night in St.
The denial of priesthood to women has received criticism including by Ordain Women, an independent organization of current and former church members.
In 1566 and 1568, Pope Pius V rejected this class of institute, but they continued to exist and even increased in number.
As a Buddha's disciple, he ought to nurture a mind of compassion and filial piety, always devising expedient means to rescue and protect all beings.
In theory, the recognition as religious for simple vows had universal validity, but in practice, the Roman Curia considered it an exclusive privilege to the Society of Jesus.
He combined these ten with the three refuges and the three pure precepts into what is today called the sixteen precepts.
Chapter 5: Cases in which a person dedicates or vows something by mistake; Nazarites who had made their vows before the destruction of the Temple, and, on coming to Jerusalem to offer their sacrifices, had learned that the Temple had been destroyed (§ 4); conditional Nazaritic vows (§§ 5-7).
At the same time, monks in Hindu monasteries and saddhus or individual ascetics, are usually expected to withdraw from saṃsāra ('the world'), and practice celibacy.
While the gestures remained unchanged, the church removed the explicit descriptions of the three methods of execution and replaced them with the phrase, "rather than do so, I would suffer my life to be taken." In April 1990, the LDS Church eliminated the oaths and the gestures from the endowment.
A perpetually professed religious who wishes to renounce his or her goods either partially or totally according to the norm of proper law and with the permission of the supreme moderator is to do the same.
Alongside the trial of Louis XVI, in which many red priests participated, they were crucial in the radicalization of the Parisian people.
Government In Iran, women are required to wear hijabs as part of that society's efforts to enforce chastity.
Drafting of Grievance Lists (Cahiers de doléances) Priests played a central role in drafting cahiers de doléances in their parishes because they were often the only ones who could read and write well, and they managed parish registers (baptisms, marriages, burials).
Alexander Berzin (including commentary according to Tibetan Gelug Tradition) The Ethical Discipline of Bodhisattvas, by Geshe Sonam Rinchen (Tibetan Gelug Tradition) Nine Considerations and Criteria for Benefiting Beings
Legacy The expression could be used in other situations, such as during the Russian Revolution of 1905, supported by a portion of the clergy of the Russian Orthodox Church.
See also Germanic boar helmet Gullinbursti - Boar owned by Freyr Hildisvíni - Boar associated with Freyja Sæhrímnir - Boar killed and eaten each night in Valhöll References Sources Eduard Sievers.
It includes strict abstinence from sexual relations before marriage and complete fidelity and loyalty to one's spouse after marriage.
I solemnly declare and affirm that I shall hereafter lead my life according to the principles and teachings of the Buddha and his Dhamma.
While some of them left the clergy, often in connection with the criticism of clerical celibacy, a small minority engaged in actions of dechristianization.
The thirteen saṅghādisesas for bhikkus are: Discharge of semen or getting someone to discharge your semen, except while dreaming.
Moreover, Latter-day Saints believe that the priesthood authority was absent from the earth during the Great Apostasy, and that priesthood had to be restored through Joseph Smith.
It has been suggested that finger rings were uncommon in England during the 5th–6th centuries CE with both men and women, however their popularity increased in the 10th–11th centuries, when they became relatively more popular among women.
Soon afterwards, Pym proposed a Bill of Attainder on Strafford to execute him, which after some resistance was approved by the House of Commons and the House of Lords on 21 April 1641.
Some inscriptions are made in an extremely short formula, including only the vower's name and the word ndr (as a noun – "the vow of") or mtnt ("the gift of").
If a monk breaks any one of the rules he is automatically "defeated" in the holy life and falls from monkhood immediately.
Our deputies will be our spokespeople and will obtain, for the unfortunate, relief from all burdens.
In October 1790, the National Convention banned priests, monks, nuns, and any who had previously occupied such positions from teaching in schools, and many members of the convention began calling for a “religion of patriotism” to supplant Catholic Christianity entirely.
Thus, one can find demands similar to those of the Third Estate in their cahiers de doléances, as in the case of Forcalquier:Consideration should be given in the distribution of benefits and other ecclesiastical graces, based on service and merit rather than birth.
Aquinas, in support of his view, cited the fact that these two vows alone were considered to make the celebration of marriage invalid.
At that time the doctor probably performed all the functions in the sick room, including that of nursing patients.
Rabbi Joseph Telushkin wrote that the commandment is much more than a prohibition against casual interjections using God's name.
With regard to abortion, Buddhist countries take the middle ground, by condemning though not prohibiting it fully.
Some Anglo-Catholic priestly orders require their members to remain celibate, as do monastic orders of all religiously professed brothers and sisters.
Epiphanius Panarion 29.4) believed he had, and the vow of a nazirite would explain the asceticism Eusebius of Caesarea ascribed to James, a claim that gave James the title "James the Just".
In Mormonism, a penalty is a specified punishment for breaking an oath of secrecy after receiving the Nauvoo endowment ceremony.
All priesthood holders have the same priesthood authority; however, the authority to exercise certain powers of the priesthood are divided according to priesthood office.
Latter-day Saints believe that ancient prophets and apostles conferred the priesthood directly upon Smith and other early members of the movement.
This formula opens with the dedication to the god or gods (for example: lrbt ltnt pn bʿl wlʾdn lbʿl ḥmn = "To the lady - to Tinnit the face of Baal, and to the lord - to Baal Hammon").
If instead, he displays his own virtues and conceals the good points of others, thus causing them to suffer slander, he commits a Parajika offense.
The weights of intact arm and neck rings are always multiples of mercantile units, further supporting their usage as a form of wearable currency.
While sent as a representative on a mission during the Reign of Terror to suppress disturbances, Jean Bassal was noted for his humanity.
Aquinas held that the only vows that could be considered solemn were those made by receiving the holy orders as a member of the Catholic Hierarchy, or by the religious profession of the rule as a member of a Catholic religious order.
These vows provides the theoretical foundation for the Pure Land Buddhist soteriology and serves as a practical guide for adherents aspiring to be born into the Pure Land, where one can easily and rapidly attain Buddhahood.
The latter case forbids the object's benefit to the person making the neder, and obligates him to bring it to its new "owner." Thus the thing common to any neder is that it applies to the object, not the person.
Bishoprics were realigned to correspond with the eighty-three departments France had been divided into, and any additional bishoprics were abolished.
Silesia (1422): the Jew would stand on a three-legged stool and have to pay a fine each time he fell, finally losing his case if he fell four times.
Bibliography External links One version of the Diploma of Ramiro I Archived 2014-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
Aftermath Following the failure of the 1641 Protestation, the Long Parliament tried two more times to organize an oath of allegiance to King Charles and the Church of England, but they saw the same fate as its predecessor.
Hrōðgār upholds his responsibility as a king with both deeds and actions, sharing rings during feasts in Heorot.
Premise The Day of Atonement is one on which American black men swear to refrain from crime, drug addiction, and family abuse.
Renunciation of the right to own property is now a matter for the constitutions of the religious institute in question and is associated not with the solemnity of the vows but with their perpetuity.
Catholic gavelkind cemented a tradition of farm subdivision, which persisted beyond the act's repeal and contributed to the Great Famine of the 1840s.
Having crossed over, may I lead others across; comforted, may I comfort others; emancipated, may I emancipate others.
The prayer to which endowed members obligated themselves took place in at least some cases as part of the prayer circle ceremony, which was also part of the endowment but was often performed separately.
Before leaving Kerala, on 1 February 1663 Sebastiani consecrated Palliveettil Chandy as the Metran of the Thomas Christians who adhered to the Church of Rome.
However, in some parts of China, such as Dunhuang, considerable evidence has been found of alcohol consumption among both lay people and monastics.
Avenger of two free peoples, I had only one regret, that the same blow could not strike the head of all tyrants.Finally, there were Father François-Toussaint Villers, deputy from Loire-Inférieure, and Father Claude-Alexandre Ysabeau, deputy from Indre-et-Loire.
Overview The Pratimokṣa belongs to the Vinaya of the Buddhist doctrine and is seen as the very basis of Buddhism.
A declaration of faith is a phrase that is said by a member of any religion to show either to themselves, their God or other members of the religion their belief and faith in the religion.
This practice can still be found in contemporary Theravadin temples, especially during the occasion when a non-Buddhist converts to Buddhism or when one is observing the Eight Precepts on an uposatha day.
However, many parish priests and other ‘low clergy’ sided with the Third Estate, representing their own class and the class of their flocks.
Rings held a prominent position in early Germanic cultures, appearing both in archaeology throughout areas settled by Germanic peoples, and in textual sources discussing their practices and beliefs.
Several modern teachers such as Thich Nhat Hanh and Sulak Sivaraksa have written about the five precepts in a wider scope, with regard to social and institutional relations.
The Conflict between the Estates-General and the King (May 5 - July 9, 1789) The clergy deputies convened at the Estates-General, with 114 out of 133 advocating for voting by head and the clergy's alignment with the Third Estate, as proposed by Abbé Sieyès, representing slightly less than half.
(2013), Princeton Dictionary of Buddhism (PDF), Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0-691-15786-3, archived (PDF) from the original on 12 June 2018 Encyclopædia Britannica (2007).
Against the identifications of the phrase as a remnant of pagan culture, Ó hUiginn has argued that the phrase "has every appearance of being a contrived learned phrase", an innovation in the early Irish epics dating to the Christian period rather than "an inherited pre-Christian archaism".
Both factions could face persecution, as communities with strong revolutionary sentiments would beat, stone, or even kill non-juring priests, while in more religiously traditional communities juring priests could face similar assaults.
But following the death of Palliveettil Chandy, in 1687, the church was again fallen under the leadership of foreign missionaries for a long time and had to face challenges to their eastern, Syrian and indigenous heritage and rite.
The chapter closes with a description of consequences of breaking the precepts and the obligations that one must take on after receiving the precepts.
Oath The treatment of Ahatalla, shocked the Thomas Christian community, and their wounded feelings effervesced into a mass upsurge that heralded the breaking off from the Padroado of the Portuguese Crown and the Jesuits.
It further records the practice at a battle which took place on Easter 1244 in which a chieftain vowed to never capture a man in a church.
Incorporation into the Nauvoo endowment The oath of vengeance is understood by some modern historians to have been added to the Nauvoo endowment under the direction of Brigham Young by 1845 in the Nauvoo Temple, soon after the 1844 death of Joseph Smith.
The oath-swearing practice varied significantly, sometimes involving ritualised drinking or placing hands on a holy pig (referred to as a sónargöltr) that could later be sacrificed.
President Woodruff—I have already said that there is nothing of that kind in any part or phase of "Mormonism." I ought to know about that as I am one of the oldest members of the Church.
The oath was part of the LDS endowment Temple (Latter Day Saints) ceremony for over 80 years (1845–1927).
Tamata may be bought in shops selling Greek Orthodox religious items, and then hung with a ribbon on a pole or hooks near an icon or shrine of a saint, the act of which is usually accompanied with a prayer, and sometimes with the lighting of a votive candle.
They were often performed at Yule and other large social events, where they played a role in establishing and maintaining good relationships principally between members of the aristocratic warrior elite.
At the same time, there was enough support for a basically Catholic form of Christianity that some means had to be found to fund the Church in France.
Gowans argues that there is no moral theory in Buddhist ethics that covers all conceivable situations such as when two precepts may be in conflict, but is rather characterized by "a commitment to and nontheoretical grasp of the basic Buddhist moral values".
(1989), "Buddhist Politics and Their Revolutionary Origins in Thailand", International Political Science Review, 10 (2): 121–42, doi:10.1177/019251218901000203, S2CID 145572706 Mendis, N.K.G.
Moreover, the symbol appears on stelae from Samʼal, on which Baal Hammon is mentioned (like Kilamuwa stele).
Among the prominent members of this group were Abbé Sieyès, Abbé Grégoire, and Jacques Roux (1752-1794), who committed suicide in prison after being incarcerated on the orders of the Committee of Public Safety led by Robespierre.
It is being followed by the monks of the Theravada lineage (Thailand, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Cambodia and Laos).
Upāsakāśīla sūtra precepts The Sutra of the Ethics of a Lay Follower (Upāsakāśīla sūtra, Chinese: Youposai wu jie weiyi jing 優婆塞五戒 威儀經, Taisho no.
These were two of the nine juridical consequences (apart from spiritual effects) of the difference between solemn and simple vows.
bodhisattva-śīla or bodhisattva-saṃvāra, traditional Chinese: 菩薩戒; ; pinyin: Púsà Jiè, Japanese: 菩薩戒, romanized: bosatsukai; Wylie: byang chub sems dpa’i sdom pa) are a set of ethical trainings (śīla) used in Mahāyāna Buddhism to advance a practitioner along the path to becoming a bodhisattva.
In 1889, several members of the LDS Church that had emigrated from other countries applied for citizenship to the United States.
In these cases, the ties to the order the new bishop had are dissolved as if the bishop had never been a member; hence, such a person as Pope Francis, for example, had no formal ties to his old order for years.
The ring Draupnir is told in Skáldskaparmál to have been forged by the dwarfs Brokkr and Sindri, to drip eight equally heavy rings every eight nights.
In the courtyard of the temple's workshop, a clay mask with no beard or mustache was found, similar to the Punic masks.
Some of the inscriptions describe the stele of the vowed object as a gift, mostly in the version ʾš ytn ("which gave", as opposed to ʾš ndr) or with mtnt ("gift"), and some mix both the gift and the vow versions.
The final step was for the sheriffs and Judges of Peace to read it in Church and have all present sign it, which should be all of the population as they were obligated to go to church every Sunday under penalty of fine.
According to Gregory of Tours, Namatius a 5th-century bishop of Clermont was married and his wife was involved in the construction of St Stephen's church in Clermont.
As recorded in the Edicts of Aśoka, there was a custom that he had established not to kill animals on the uposatha days, which indicates that by this time observance of Buddhist uposatha had become a state institution in India.
These "vows of renunciation" are then followed by the profession of faith in Father, Son and Holy Spirit.
Sir Toby Butler, the former Solicitor General for Ireland, a Roman Catholic, made a celebrated speech at the bar of the Commons denouncing the act as being "against the laws of God and man...
Section 13 mandated that inheritance from a Protestant would according to common law, that is primogeniture.
These consist of injuring a Buddha, killing an arahant, killing one's father or mother, and causing the monastic community to have a schism.
Explanation Of the following articles, the first five are based closely on a discourse in which the Buddha lays down the attitudes and skills which would make "one who would wait on the sick qualified to nurse the sick.".
This practice was contemplated by the canonical law since the Middle Age, as it is testified by the later life of Peter Cellensis.
Lutheranism The theology of the body of the Lutheran Churches emphasizes the role of the Holy Spirit, who sanctified the bodies of Christians to be God's temple.
Koch proposed that the formula, alongside the Welsh oath tyghaf tyghet ('I swear a destiny on you') and a Gaulish phrase from the Chamalières tablet, originated as a "taboo deformation" of an oath sworn to Lugus (a god whose name, he argues, derives from a Celtic word for oath).
A woman known only as "Mrs G.H.R." attended an endowment ceremony in September 1879 in Salt Lake City, Utah Territory.
Such formulae are common in early Irish literature, and especially in the heroic sagas, where they are sworn for emphasis when a character declares they will perform some feat.
But the word also refers to the virtue and morality which lies at the foundation of the spiritual path to enlightenment, which is the first of the three forms of training on the path.
(The canons stipulate that they must also see to their wives' maintenance, for example Canon 12 of the Quinisext Council.) Typically, the wife of such a man will take up the monastic life herself, though this also is not required.
Gabriel Turville-Petre suggested that names for Freyr and his sister Freyja which equate them with a boar and a sow respectively implied that consumption of the sacrificed boar was believed to be consumption of the god's flesh and absorption of his power.
Distinction from simple vows Any vow in Catholic religious life other than a solemn vow is a simple vow.
The clergy split into juring priests (those who took the oath) and non-juring or refractory priests (those who refused).
(F) From time to time I will be able to instruct, inspire, enthuse, and cheer the sick with the Teaching.
The Jewish advocate Isaac Adolphe Crémieux won great fame by effecting the abolition of the oath through a case brought before the court of Nîmes in 1827.
The attack on the clergy was potentially the tipping point that eventually led to the King's doomed flight to Varennes in June 1791.
On 14 February 1493, in the Atlantic Ocean east of the Azores, they met with a storm that threatened to capsize the two caravels.
The Order of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mercy requires that its members take a fourth vow to die for another who is in danger of losing their faith.
Some focus on interpersonal relations, encouraging compassion and altruism, while others address broader responsibilities, such as the prohibition against destroying cities.
Other fundamentalist Mormon denominations continue to have the penalties as part of their temple oaths.
For women, those with simple vows were simply "sisters", with the term "nun" reserved in canon law for those who belonged to an institute of solemn vows, even if in some localities they were allowed to take simple vows instead.
Keown, Damien (2004), A Dictionary of Buddhism, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-157917-2 Keyes, C.F.
Some were replaced with less onerous restrictions; for example, the maximum lease for Catholic tenants was increased from 31 years to 999 years.
The term "prophets" wasn't explicitly clarified in reported wording of the oath, but many sources have reported it referred to the brothers Joseph and Hyrum Smith, who were killed by a mob the year before Smith's primary successor, Brigham Young, added the oath.
Gavai and Sadanand Fulzele, the secretary of the organization, have carved these 22 vows on a wide marble stone at the Deekshabhoomi ground and placed the pillar at the first sight of the stupa.
As a unique exception to this traditional dichotomy, the Benedictine abbots could be consecrated bishops by an analogue apostolic authority (like another bishop, an archbishop, or the pope).
Next, the monastic asks the disciple to follow additional habits to prevent breaking the precepts, to discourage others from breaking them, and to avoid excessive attachment to the five skandhas.
Richards revised the ceremony to eliminate the oath of vengeance, and the revision was formally implemented in 1927.
It seemed that the red priests were strongly opposed to religious intolerance, particularly directed towards Jews or Protestants.
The public profession of the evangelical counsels (or counsels of perfection), confirmed by vow or other sacred bond, is a requirement of Canon Law.
They make a public profession of the evangelical counsels of chastity, poverty, and obedience, confirmed by a vow or other sacred bond, regulated by canon law but live consecrated lives in the world (i.e.
In the Catholic Church, by joining the consecrated life, one does not become a member of the hierarchy but becomes a member of a state of life which is neither clerical nor lay, the consecrated state.
Outside Carthage, Phoenician votive inscription were also found in Hadrumetum (Hadrumetum Punic inscriptions), Cirta (Cirta steles), Malta (Cippi of Melqart), San Nicolò Gerrei (Pauli Gerrei trilingual inscription), Sulci, Karaly, in Phoenicia proper, and in Hammon.
Along these lines, Joseph Vendryes argued that the god behind this oath was the Celtic god Teutates, and Calvert Watkins that the oath had roots in Proto-Indo-European.
Teske, "Votive Offerings and the Belief System of Greek-Philadelphians", Western Folklore 44:3, Healing, Magic, and Religion (July 1985), pp.
Other scholars, as well as Buddhist writers and human rights advocates, have drawn similar comparisons.
References External links The Third Commandment in Masoretic Hebrew, Septuagint Greek and several English versions.
The gesture was made by drawing the thumb swiftly across the stomach until the thumb was just above the right hip and the hand and arm were quickly dropped to the side of the participant's body.
Since celibacy is seen as a consequence of the obligation of continence, it implies abstinence from sexual relationships.
During this time, it was particularly Buddhist teachers who promoted abstinence from alcohol (the fifth precept), since Daoism and other thought systems emphasized moderation rather than full abstinence.
Upāsakas and upāsikās wear long sleeved black or brown robes called haiqing (海青), symbolic of their refuge in the Triple Jewel.
Kimball, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles of the LDS Church, described the oath of vengeance in his diary on December 21, 1845.
The principal manuscripts for the saga vary considerably with the account in manuscript H as follows: Here, the ritual is dedicated to only Freyr, while in the U manuscript it is also to Freyja though this is typically amended to Freyr.
They are forms of restraint formulated in negative terms, but are also accompanied by virtues and positive behaviors, which are cultivated through the practice of the precepts.
If the bhikku confesses only after interrogation, the verdict should be "acting in accordance with the accused's further misconduct".
While originally containing heathen religious components such as prayers and worship of gods such as Freyr and Thor, the practice continued in an altered manner after the Christianisation of Scandinavia.
Ineligible groups of members Some members of the church were historically or are currently ineligible for receiving the priesthood.
Protestation Reacting to scares and anxiety that the Protestant Reformation was in danger of being replaced, especially due to the Catholic influence around King Charles I, a ten-man committee of the House of Commons was selected to draft a national declaration.
Tauris, ISBN 978-0-85773-656-7 Shah, Natubhai (2004) [First published in 1998], Jainism: The World of Conquerors, vol.
In Judaism, a neder (Hebrew pronunciation: [neˈdeːʁ], plural nedarim Hebrew pronunciation: [neˌdaˈʁiːm]) is a kind of vow or oath.
Upāsaka and Upāsikā, genyen) — 5 vows The lay pratimokṣa consists of five vows that are also known as the Five Śīlas: To refrain from killing.
In the Bodhisattvacaryāvatāra, the actual taking of the vow is preceded by various other preparatory practices and prayers, particularly what is called the Seven Branch Practice (Tib.
One of the first commandments listed by Maimonides in the Mishneh Torah is the responsibility to sanctify God's name.
See also Parinamana References Further reading Blo-gros-mthaʼ-yas, Koṅ-sprul; Taye, Lodro; Rinpoche, Bokar (2003).
Since 2015 Yeoh has served on the Board of Trustees for Kew Foundation to support the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Leggett also states that carbon capture and storage has a "substantial timing problem" as it will take fifteen to twenty years to introduce the technology.
Selected works Children's books What a Country Without Animals What a Country Without Birds What a Country Without Grasslands What a Country Without Wetlands References External links "Essay on Ndyakira Amooti".
Empty Revelations: an essay on talk about, and attitudes toward, fiction, McGill-Queen's University Press, 2012.
Abbey devoted an entire chapter in his book Hayduke Lives to the events that took place at the Rendezvous.
He was a member of the German Bundestag and served as co-president of the Club of Rome jointly with Anders Wijkman from 2011 – 2019.
Leggett has been critical of the lack of reporting by the British mainstream media on the economic imperatives of climate change abatement.
In July 2018 he played a role in the Kwaio Reconciliation programme in the Solomon Islands, which put an end to a 91-year-old cycle of killings that stemmed from the murders in 1927 of British Colonial officers Bell and Gillies by Kwaio leader Basiana and his followers.
He also called attention to the business of smuggling of rare animals for the purpose of exposition or laboratory experiments, in particular endangered chimpanzees and parrots.
in music from the University of Missouri–Kansas City and completed her graduate work in philosophy at Yale University, receiving her M.A., M.Phil, and PhD.
Hemendra Singh Panwar is an Indian conservationist and civil servant, known for his efforts in the fields of wildlife and conservation.
See also Kodaikanal mercury poisoning Plachimada Coca-Cola struggle Heavy Metal: How a Global Corporation Poisoned Kodaikanal References External links https://www.ameershahul.com/ https://media.greenpeace.org/archive/Unilever-Mercury-Action-in-India-27MZIFXMJD5.html
He received the Millennium Botany Award in 1999 and the Marsh Ecology Award from the BES the same year.
1989: Status, distribution and general ecology of the Indian Python Python molurus molurus Linn.in Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur.
Roberts is an American educator, researcher, college professor, guest speaker, and planning historian, who is an associate professor in the Department of Urban and Environmental Planning for cultural planning at the University of Virginia.
The following year, he took over as Project Director of the gardens of the Calico Museum in Ahmedabad, and most recently, leads a team of horticulturists and landscape architects to restore an extensive set of sand dunes in Jaipur city, Rajasthan.
The newly-founded NAR became the first opposition party to win a national parliamentary election since independence in 1962.
He worked on resource use in and around forests and its impact on large mammal conservation for his PhD thesis under the guidance of Anindya Sinha.
Biography Charbonneau was born in Bordeaux in 1910 to a middle-class family from the French department of Lot et Garonne.
The book claims that while we can do little to change our genetic inheritance, much can be done to reduce human exposure to environmental carcinogens.
Within two days of Anthony's death, a group of 21 elephants Anthony had saved and befriended walked two days to his home.
VanderMeer is the founding editor and publisher of the Ministry of Whimsy Press, which he set up in the late 1980s while still in high school.
McAllister's film Great Bear Rainforest: Land of the Spirit Bear, shot for IMAX and Giant Screen theatres, was released internationally in 2019.
They have a wonderful feeling for the strange beauty of Australia; are frequently flavoured with Aussie vernacular expressions, and a good deal of emotional directness.
Career Scarr received bachelor's and master's degrees in English and rhetoric and public address from the University of Florida and taught high school English, public speaking and debate.
"A Comparison between Slaughterhouse Standards and Methods Used during Whaling", "An Introduction into Animal Welfare", in Philippa Brakes, Andrew Butterworth, Mark Simmons & Philip Lymbery, Troubled Waters – A Review of the Welfare Implications of Modern Whaling Activities.
Hooded warblers, along with birds more generally, were previously believed to form clutches with a single father.
His next novel, Zodiac (1988), is a thriller following a radical environmentalist in his struggle against corporate polluters.
D'Achille's murder is discussed in the final report of the Peruvian Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
Following his death, there were reports that some of the elephants he worked to save came to his family's home in accordance with the way elephants usually mourn the death of one of their own.
economists that a spectrum exists between total state ownership of the economy and total private ownership, he instead suggests that a spectrum should be understood between total democratic control of the economy and total autocratic control (whether state or private).
Family farm recent developments Fukuoka's farm in Shikoku was taken over by his son and daughter-in-law in the late 1980s, as Fukuoka reached an advanced age.
Portas was also influenced in her antisemitism by various French intellectuals, with whom antisemitism was prolific; she was especially influenced by Ernest Renan.
Townsend ISBN 1-4051-0328-0 Scholarly books 1997 - Plant life histories : ecology, phylogeny, and evolution, Editor ISBN 0-521-57495-1 1977 - Population biology of plants ISBN 0-12-325850-2 Selected highly cited scientific papers Harper, J.L., J.T.
After moving to Melbourne in the early 1980s, she became involved in People for Nuclear Disarmament.
Rain was published in 2015 by Crown, a division of Random House, and widely lauded for Barnett's nature writing and ability to translate science for a general audience.
She decided to leave India, returning to Germany to live in Bavaria in 1981 before moving back to France in 1982.
His professional field encompasses model-based future studies, scenario analysis, system dynamics, sustainability, climate, energy and ecological economics.
Richie has spoken at academic conferences including the 2016 Society for the Study of Southern Literature conference in Boston and the Dublin Gastronomy Symposium in 2018.
He holds BA and MAT degrees from Reed College and an MA (in Political Philosophy) from the University of California at Berkeley.
Her work was first published in 1959, and her literary career spanned nearly sixty years, producing more than twenty novels and more than a hundred short stories, in addition to poetry, literary criticism, translations, and children's books.
Kathryn Miles (Born Peoria, Illinois in 1974) is an American journalist, writer, and environmental theorist.
Chomsky was widely condemned for defending Faurisson, and France's mainstream press accused Chomsky of being a Holocaust denier himself, refusing to publish his rebuttals to their accusations.
However, Solomon has recently changed tack to be somewhat supportive of nuclear power Career and environmental activities Solomon writes that he was an adviser to President Jimmy Carter's task force on the environment in the late 1970s, which released The Global 2000 Report to the President in 1980.
Other techniques have been changed; the pattern of irrigation is more conventional to reduce conflicts with neighbours.
Reiner Grundmann (born 29 September 1955 near Freudenstadt), is Professor of Science and Technology Studies (STS) at the University of Nottingham and Director of its interdisciplinary STS Research Priority Group.
In 2021, Harden published Murder at the Mission: A Frontier Killing, Its Legacy of Lies, and the Taking of the American West, which examines the Whitman massacre.
The Hero’s Journey to the Third Pole (original title: Þriðji póllinn), Documentary film codirected with Anní Ólafsdóttir.
He is recognized as a pioneer of the dialogue between natural sciences and theology in Germany, taking particular interest in the consequences to the environment that result from the scientific/technological civilisation.
Personal life Yeoh is a practising Christian, and has expressed that her faith is part of inspiration for sustainable and environmental work.
Frequently described as an author of science fiction, Le Guin has also been called a "major voice in American Letters".
1: The North-South Continental Highway (1957) Pickett's Charge: A Microhistory of the Final Attack at Gettysburg, July 3, 1863, 1959 Revised in 1963.
She has also successfully sued organizations involved in filling lakes to build real estate, the improper use of polythene, hill cutting, deforestation, shrimp farming, and building illegal establishments on St.
Her second book, Blue Revolution: Unmaking America's Water Crisis, published by Beacon Press in 2011, reported on water solutions from Australia to Singapore and articulated a water ethic for the United States.
A general copywriter for a number of years, he edited the Press's Film Quarterly from 1958 until 1991.
From 1962 to 1986, she worked for Rocky Mountain Planned Parenthood, eventually as its executive director.
In 2023 he was appointed to the List of Arbitrators under the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty.
The Cambridge Companion to Nietzsche, co-edited with Bernd Magnus (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1994).
Heaven and Earth In 2009, Plimer released Heaven and Earth, a book in which he says that climate models focus too strongly on the effects of carbon dioxide, and do not give the weight he thinks is appropriate to other factors such as solar variation.
On 12 February 2026, Amitav Ghosh won The Wise Owl Literary Award 2026 Non Fiction category, for his book Wild Fictions: Essays.
Education Prerna holds a Masters in Labour Welfare from Gujarat University and has done graduate work in Economics at St Xaviers (Ahmedabad).
He was the first person to be appointed a Hillary Institute Hillary Laureate for International Leadership on Climate Change (2009).
The plot involves a weapon implanted in a character's skull, near-limitless replicators for everything from mattresses to foods, smartpaper, and air and blood-sanitizing nanobots.
In The Revenge of Gaia (2006), where he put forward the concept of sustainable retreat, Lovelock wrote: A television interviewer once asked me, "But what about nuclear waste?
He joins other prominent authors whose unpublished manuscripts will be locked away until the year 2114 in a specially designed repository in Oslo, Norway.
In his role as director of Eco-Justice Concerns for the Church of the Brethren General Board, Bhagat produced a newsletter entitled Between the Flood and the Rainbow.
In 1993, he joined the faculty of University College and the Department of Political Science, progressing to full professor status in 2006.
He has written for the New Statesman, The Ecologist, Granta and Geographical magazines, and The Guardian and The Observer newspapers in the UK, as well as The New York Times and The Washington Post in the United States; he also worked on and appeared in the film The Age of Stupid.
Punk rock band Rise Against includes Ishmael on their album The Sufferer & the Witness' reading list, and its sequel, My Ishmael, inspired the name of the band Animals as Leaders.
Chadwick is a past officer and current member of the board of The Vital Ground Foundation, and chairman of that organization's Lands Committee, responsible for choosing acquisition properties as part of Vital Ground's One Landscape wildlife corridor system.
Five hours after the account's creation, McCarthy's publisher confirmed that the account was fake and that McCarthy did not own a computer.
Business In 2020, she founded a Lymington-based cookbook and specialty food store, delaying launch until 2022 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2016, Jones launched The Messy Truth, a news feature documentary series and subsequent studio discussion series, The Messy Truth with Van Jones, which aired in 2017 on CNN.
Filmed in Costa Rica with her partner Nick Pattinson and their two young children, the series explored the country's environmental initiatives, renewable energy and sustainable development.
Havel's political philosophy was one of anti-consumerism, humanitarianism, environmentalism, civil activism, and direct democracy.
Social philosophy Jobs for Philosophers (Xlibris, 2003; ISBN 1-4134-4009-6) appears to be a collection of reviews of (real) adventurous philosophy books and projects, but is in fact a portrait of what philosophy might become.
External links Bedřich Moldan - Official website Archived 2015-11-17 at the Wayback Machine (in Czech) Bedřich Moldan, interview BBC, August 29, 2001 (in Czech)
During an interview on ABC's This Week, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs thanked Jones "for his service to the country", while noting that the president did not endorse his past comments nor his support for Abu-Jamal.
A number of Le Guin's writings, including the Earthsea series, challenged the conventions of epic fantasies and myths.
Caldicott stood as an independent candidate for the Australian House of Representatives at the 1990 federal election, contesting the Division of Richmond, against the Leader of the National Party, Charles Blunt.
From 1895 to 1898, Jepson served as instructor in Botany and carried on research at the University of California, Berkeley, Cornell University (1895), and Harvard University (1896–1897).
He became interested in botany as a boy and explored the adjacent San Francisco Bay Area, coming into contact with various botanists before he entered college.
Orca Book Publishers, 2013 Great Bear Wild: Dispatches from a Northern Rainforest, by Ian McAllister, introduction by Robert F.
One of his most significant decisions was to order a 13-part series on the history of Western art, to show off the quality of the new UHF colour television service that BBC Two offered.
The outcome was the North Report, published in 2006, which endorsed the MBH studies with a few reservations.
Author Wes Jackson is the author of several books and is recognized as a leader in the international sustainable agriculture movement.
He obtained his degree in Botany in (1946) and his MA and DPhil (1950) from Oxford with his doctoral thesis An investigation of the interaction of soil micro-organisms with special reference to the study of the bacterial population of plant root systems.
A Wizard of Earthsea and The Left Hand of Darkness have been described by critic Harold Bloom as Le Guin's masterpieces.
Early life and education McAllister was born in West Vancouver in 1969, one of five children of Peter and Jane McAllister.
Her books have been translated into 10 languages: Chinese, Dutch, German, Japanese, Korean, Persian, Polish, Portuguese, Slovenian, and Spanish.
In short, a land ethic changes the role of Homo sapiens from conqueror of the land-community to plain member and citizen of it.
Attenborough has received the title Honorary Fellow from Clare College, Cambridge (1980), the Zoological Society of London (1998), the Linnean Society (1999), the Institute of Biology (Now the Royal Society of Biology) (2000), and the Society of Antiquaries (2007).
His research covered the areas of environmental policy and energy policy, genetic engineering, sustainability and health policy.
Awards and accolades In 2019, she was awarded the Climate Breakthrough Award of US$2 million to develop a bold new global climate strategy.
intelligence agencies and the author of the books America's Secret Eyes in the Sky and The Ties That Bind.
The Green-Collar Jobs Campaign was Jones's first effort to combine his goals of improving racial and economic equality with mitigating environmental damage.
Constitution Raphael next turned to histories of the Constitution: President: How and Why the Founders Created a Chief Executive (2012) and Constitutional Myths: What We Get Wrong and How to Get It Right (2013).
"Thinking globally, acting (trans-) locally: Petra Kelly and the transnational roots of West German green politics." Central European History 43.2 (2010): 301–326.
Career Over the course of his career, Radford's approach to creating change has moved from activism to a more collaborative, solutions-based approach.
Since the mid-1970s, Suzuki has been known for his television and radio series, documentaries and books about nature and the environment.
She is part of the team of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to assess the management effectiveness of tiger reserves in an IUCN framework.
He sought to have fields planted in polycultures, more than one variety of plant in a field, like diverse plants grow together in nature.
Philip Weller is author of three books on environmental topics, including ‘Freshwater Seas’, an environmental history of the Great Lakes of North America.
In 2006, Suzuki was the recipient of the Bradford Washburn Award presented at the Museum of Science in Boston, Massachusetts.
His family later moved a few miles west to Lincolnwood, where his father was a local school principal.
David Henry Peter Maybury-Lewis (5 May 1929 – 2 December 2007) was a British anthropologist, ethnologist of lowland South America, activist for indigenous peoples' human rights, and professor emeritus of Harvard University.
Kelly was positioned between the tropical ecologist Mike Hands and the national parks visionary John Dower.
For the Cooper Basin, he proposed the establishment of a fully sustainable city where, "hundreds of thousands of people would live", utilising these geothermal energy reserves.
Early life and education Born on October 1, 1937, in Jamaica, Queens, New York, Berg was raised in Florida after moving there at age six, which was where he first became interested in the environment as a child.
ISBN 0-914171-61-5 Living Cheaply With Style: Live Better and Spend Less, Second edition (Berkeley: Ronin, 2000).
Early life and education Barnett was born in Fort Myers, Florida, and raised in Florida and California.
Vasily Belov devoted his last years to the restoration of the Nikolskaya church in Timonikha where he had been baptized as a child.
Raphael has also written a book on male initiation rites in contemporary American culture (The Men from the Boys), a study of the careers of teachers (The Teachers' Voice), and with his son Neil, a juvenile mystery (Comic Cops).
hc Günter Altner Archived 18 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine, obituary, VAS-Verlag (in German) Vermächtnis und Auftrag Archived 12 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine, Symposium of mourning held at the University of Lüneburg on 24 February 2012 (in German)
Priest wrote, "In 1965 Harrison and Aldiss published the first issue (of two) of the world's first serious journal of SF criticism, SF Horizons.
Dr Harper spent a further nine years conducting research at the Department of Agriculture, Oxford, and a sabbatical as Rockefeller Foundation Fellow at the University of California, Davis, he was in 1967 appointed head of the newly formed School of Plant Biology at Bangor University North Wales.
Reprising the theme in 2011, he argued in The Independent that Natural England had fallen short of expectations: "With next to no public debate, our wildlife watchdog has morphed into a pathetic delivery boy, charged with attending to "customer focus".
Creative Problem-Solving in Ethics (Oxford University Press, 2007; ISBN 0-19-530620-1) Environmentalism Back to Earth: Tomorrow's Environmentalism (Temple University Press, 1994, ISBN 1-56639-237-3).
Vive la decroissance conviviale !", Institut d'études économiques et sociales pour la décroissance soutenable (Institute for Economic and Social Studies for Sustainable Degrowth) (Paris, January 2006).
Brunner (Kilian Houston Brunner), Gill Hunt, John Loxmith, Trevor Staines, Ellis Quick, Henry Crosstrees Jr., and Keith Woodcott.
Her next book was Przevalskis hest (2019), named after Przewalski's horse, the third volume in her series on people and climate.
In 1990, the Toronto Star awarded him an Atkinson Fellowship in Public Policy to study AIDS and the failure of public health policy.
After visiting the Great Bear Rainforest in about 1994, he began studying and photographing the area.
Personal life Swain was among the members of the Indian diaspora whose Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) was canceled by the Government of India.
Health In 2017 Pincott revealed that she was suffering from rare, incurable, autoimmune connective tissue diseases believed by medical researchers to be both environment- and stress-related.
In December 2016, Jones was accused of having a conflict of interest for running a PR firm called Megaphone Strategies, which openly lobbies electoral college electors not to cast their vote for Donald Trump.
In 1980, he was appointed to the Ministry of Long-Term Planning, in Oslo, involved with macroeconomic planning.
He commonly analyzed and defended the effectiveness of traditional indigenous tribal societies—regarded by anthropological research as fairly egalitarian, ecologically well-adapted, and socially secure —as role models for developing a new diversity of workable human social structures in the future.
She attended school at Corpus Christi in Kottayam, Kerala, followed by the Lawrence School in Lovedale, Tamil Nadu.
In 2022, she released her third book, Nomad Century, where she argues that the coming decades will inevitably see billions of people migrate due to global heating.
Though the majority of her works operate in a world of fantastical imagery and metaphor, at the heart of her writing is real-world injustice and pain.
She reprised the role the following year in the sequel It Shouldn't Happen to a Vet, this time opposite John Alderton and Colin Blakely.
After studying the operation of the Earth's sulphur cycle, Lovelock and his colleagues, Robert Jay Charlson, Meinrat Andreae and Stephen G.
In 2016 McAllister presented a talk, "Conservation in Canada's Great Bear Rainforest" at the TEDxBrentwoodCollegeSchool event.
His work has been published in Vice News, Rolling Stone, The New York Times, Foreign Policy, The Guardian, Penthouse, The Walrus and The Toronto Star.
Programs in wheat, sorghum, and sunflower are generating crop lines displaying both perenniality and agriculturally-significant seed yield.
Early books Raphael's first books focused primarily on the history and regional issues of Northern California, where he has lived since the late 1960s.
Biography and career Mark O'Connor was born in Melbourne in 1945, the son of Kevin John O'Connor, later the Chief Stipendiary Magistrate of Victoria, and of Elaine Riordan/O'Connor, a journalist.
In 2016–17 she was Emerging Scholar Fellow in Race and Gender in the Built Environment of the American City, at Austin, Texas' School of Architecture.
In 2009, Pearse published a critique of the Rudd government's response to climate change in Quarterly Essay 33: Quarry Vision: Coal, Climate Change and the End of the Resources Boom.
After leaving academia and establishing the Land Institute, Jackson published New Roots for Agriculture, partially in reaction to a report from the U.S.
The project also aims to become a leader in natural capital research to produce high quality, evidence based credits reflecting the increases in carbon sequestration and biodiversity it hopes to achieve on a yearly basis.
His poetry book, Bónus Poetry, a mythological journey through the isles of an Icelandic Bónus Supermarket, based on the Divine Comedy by Dante became a best seller in 1996.
Grouse GR-100/Marquis MAR-106/Grouse 101-C (cass) (Vancouver Chamber Choir) Sun (words for sun in 36 languages) from Princess of the Stars (Patria prologue).
About 70 percent of his diet came from dumpsters—he ate more than 280 pounds (130 kg) of food from grocery store dumpsters to bring attention to food waste.
She received an Alumni Achievement Award from the Conservatory of Music at the University of Missouri–Kansas City (1999).
1998 – First annual Altman Award for "the inspiring and poetic use of science to elucidate the causes of cancer," from the Jenifer Altman Foundation 1998 – Will Solimene Award for "excellence in medical communication" from the New England chapter of the American Medical Writers Association.
As he neared writing the end of each book, he would rise increasingly early each day, meaning that he would sleep for less than four hours by going to bed at 10 p.m.
The New Zealand Defence Force Chief Lieutenant-General Tim Keating challenged the book's accuracy and denied that NZ forces had operated in the Naik and Khak Khuday Dad villages.
During the interview, he related several stories illustrating the degree of outright poverty he endured at times during his career as a writer.
At the heart of EPEA is Cradle to Cradle Design, to create products oriented toward a life-cycle economy.
Sustainable retreat Sustainable retreat is a concept developed by Lovelock to define the necessary changes to human settlement and dwelling at the global scale to adapt to global warming and prevent its expected negative consequences on humans.
He worked for 4 years on the project, till 1985, during which time, the project brought seven additional reserves under its umbrella.
Bernard William Alexander Kirby (11 July 1939 – 23 November 2025) was a British journalist, who specialised in environmental issues.
She is the author of the water books Mirage (2007), Blue Revolution (2011), Rain (2015), which was longlisted for the National Book Award and a finalist for the 2016 PEN/E.O.
This piece also goes over the magnitude of this genre and presents essays from varying nature authors.
Early life and education James Lovelock was born in Letchworth Garden City to Tom Arthur Lovelock and his second wife Nellie.
This premise or plot device has been imitated and used by other authors and screenwriters in several books, movies and television shows since.
His sizable audience should welcome the latest voyage in search of the secret springs of creativity – evolutionary, cosmic, mental – as a muted adumbration of temporal mortality." Other reviews: "Eiseley has met strange creatures in the night country, and he tells marvelous stories about them ...
When she was 17, she enrolled at the University of Adelaide medical school and graduated in 1961 with a MBBS degree.
His Foreign Policy piece The Convenient Disappearance of Climate Change Denial in China Energy won the Energy of Words Media Contest in 2018.
CFCs After developing his electron capture detector, in the late 1960s, Lovelock was the first to detect the widespread presence of CFCs in the atmosphere.
Awards and honors 2000 honorary doctorate degree of the Lüneburg University Festschrift: Gerd Michelsen, Udo E.
A Thousand Barrels a Second: The Coming Oil Break Point and the Challenges Facing an Energy Dependent World (2006).
He was a member of the Queensland Climate Change Council established by the Queensland Minister for Sustainability, Climate Change and Innovation Andrew McNamara.
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s Rasputin, called by some the leading figure of the "Siberian environmental lobby", took an active part in the campaign for protection of Lake Baikal and against the diversion of Siberian fresh water to Central Asian republics.
Between 2003 and 2013, he was executive secretary of the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River.
Around this time, Miyazaki started work on the final volumes of the manga Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, which he created in-house at Studio Ghibli.
He attended Shawnigan Lake School, on Vancouver Island and took Southeast Asian studies at the University of Victoria.
However, the Mike and Fitz Breakfast Show still trailed a long way behind the number one program on 2GB, hosted by FitzSimons' former coach Alan Jones.
Peter Barnes (born April 16, 1940, in New York City) is an American entrepreneur, environmentalist, and journalist.
"The war was in Chesterton's eyes a crusade, and he was certain that England was right to fight as she had been wrong in fighting the Boers." Chesterton saw the roots of the war in Prussian militarism.
ISBN 978-0-425-15602-5 (1995) Virgin Forest Virgin Forest is a collection of twelve related essays about how we think about and treat nature.
She earned a bachelor's degree in journalism and a master's in American history with a specialization in environmental history, both from the University of Florida, and has described Florida's nature and weather as significant inspiration for her work.
The public debate about climate change in Germany was at its height around 1986, when the energy committee of the Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft (AKE) predicted a climate catastrophe rendering earth a dead planet within 50 years.
Sky Trust proposal Barnes' Sky Trust proposal is based on the idea that each and every American owns the sky as if it were a common asset.
It made the prediction of global cooling of the planet in the last decades of the 21st century, and the coming of a little ice age before 2500.
Kim Stanley Robinson (born March 23, 1952) is an American science fiction writer best known for his Mars trilogy of novels.
After graduating, he worked as a research wildlife biologist studying mountain goats and grizzly bears in northwestern Montana.
Global Climate Coalition Radford led a national divestment/disinvestment campaign, that resulted in the dissolution of the Global Climate Coalition.
Earth Jurisprudence and Rights of Nature Inspired by Thomas Berry’s ten principles for the revision of jurisprudence, Cullinan published Wild Law: a manifesto for Earth Justice (2002).
Her short stories, poems and articles have appeared in science fiction and fantasy publications including Galaxy, Thirteenth Moon, Star*line and others.
In the 2015 New Year Honours, Harrow was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to the dramatic arts.
He has also warned that the proposed Australian carbon-trading scheme could decimate the Australian mining industry.
Storm was dramatized as A Storm Called Maria on the November 2, 1959, episode of ABC's anthology television series Walt Disney Presents.
She spent 2004–2005 as a Knight-Wallace Fellow at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan researching freshwater scarcity.
This explored the details of the book he published in July 2017, Sunlight and Seaweed: An Argument for How to Feed, Power and Clean Up the World.
Moore became president of Greenpeace Canada (the new name for Greenpeace Foundation) and a director of Greenpeace International.
Bhagat sought to expand upon the traditional Brethren support for pacifism to include environmental concerns, saying "Working on these...
She held visiting fellowships at the University of Illinois, Radcliffe/Harvard, and Northeastern University, and served on President Bill Clinton's National Action Plan on Breast Cancer.
OCLC 1030754409.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) FitzSimons, Peter (2018).
Survivre au développement : De la décolonisation de l'imaginaire économique à la construction d'une société alternative (Mille et Une Nuits, 2004).
For fifteen years Raphael taught all subjects except foreign language at a one-room public high school in his remote neighborhood.
The PKK claims that this project is not envisioned as being only for Kurds, but rather for all peoples of the region, regardless of their ethnic, national, or religious background.
References External links Burgmann, Verity (1952 - ) at The Encyclopedia of Women and Leadership in Twentieth-Century Australia
He was arrested during The Emergency and was held in illegal custody for alleged possession of communist literature.
He created or co-created the universal grammar theory, the generative grammar theory, the Chomsky hierarchy, and the minimalist program.
His best-known academic work is Names on the Land: A Historical Account of Place-Naming in the United States (1945; reprinted, New York Review Books, 2008).
Cambridge, Mass: Global Equity Initiative, Asia Center Harvard University Distributed by Harvard University Press.
Co-produced by Ken Nelson Productions, it blended newsreel footage of several different storms to represent the mega-storm of the novel and traced the storm from its origins in Japan to the coast of California.
This knowledge and an untiring energy he dedicated to the upbuilding of the mathematical library at Brown University.
In 1982, she became associate professor and in 1988 Professor for History of Mathematics at the University of Stuttgart.
He then became an assistant in the history of mathematics and natural sciences at the University of Mainz, where he received in 1998 his Habilitation.
She was born and lived in Göttingen in Germany (where her parents worked at the university) until 1908.
Corry has done research on the development of modern algebra and number theory (including computational number theory done by Harry Vandiver, D.
Dickson was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1913, and was also a member of the American Philosophical Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the London Mathematical Society, the French Academy of Sciences and the Union of Czech Mathematicians and Physicists.
To support his family, Gupta took a teaching job instead of immediately continuing doctoral studies.
Jakob Steiner had proposed Steiner's conic problem of enumerating the number of conic sections tangent to each of five given conics and had answered it incorrectly.
In 1954, Boyer was the recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship to further his work in the history of science, in particular, the history of the study of rainbows.
Michio Yano, a former doctoral student of Yabuuchi, emphasized strong similarities between Yabuuchi's working methods and the methodology of the mathematician and astronomer Otto Neugebauer: In many respects I found similarities between Neugebauer and Yabuuti.
He died on 4 April 1925 in Elmside, Cambridge, and is buried at the Parish of the Ascension Burial Ground in Cambridge.
Fowler was also the translator of René Thom's book Structural Stability and Morphogenesis from French (Stabilité structurelle et morphogénèse) into English.
At the presentation of his portrait to Brown University the head of the mathematics department, Professor Clarence Raymond Adams said of him: "The instincts of the bibliophile were also his from early years.
Isabella Grigoryevna Bashmakova (Russian: Изабелла Григорьевна Башмакова; January 3, 1921 – July 17, 2005) was a Russian historian of mathematics.
Ortiz, editor (1988) The Works of Julio Rey Pastor, 8 volumes, London: The Humboldt Library Further reading Gasca, Ana Millán (1988).
Biography Siegmund-Schultze studied mathematics at the Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, where he received his doctorate in 1979 on the history of functional analysis.
Neumann was a long-standing supporter of the British Society for the History of Mathematics, whose Neumann Prize is named in his honour.
He then studied mathematics at the University of Essex, where he graduated in 1970, and at the University of Warwick, where he obtained his master's degree in 1973.
Since 2000 he has been a professor of history of science at the University of Agder in Kristiansand, Norway.
After his return in February 1912, Fujiwara worked closely with his colleague Tsuruichi Hayashi, who in 1911 founded the Tohoku Mathematical Journal.
Albert in 1922, and the procedure is known now as the Cayley–Dickson construction of composition algebras.
Ruan Yuan (Chinese: 阮元; 1764–1849), courtesy name Boyuan (伯元), art name Yuntai (芸臺), posthumous name Wenda (文達), was a Chinese historian, politician, and writer of the Qing dynasty who was the most prominent Chinese scholar during the first half of the 19th century.
See also Criticism of non-standard analysis References External links Joseph Dauben at the Mathematics Genealogy Project
He proposes a novel "principle of explanatory surplus", likening a successful theoretician to a successful entrepreneur.
Along with Georges Dossin, he founded the Rencontre Assyriologique Internationale, an association of orientalists, which hosts international events.
One of his doctoral students was the physicist and aphorist Georg Christoph Lichtenberg, who became a colleague of his at Göttingen.
While a professor, he did research in industrial quality control and other areas, and also authored textbooks.
He ended his teaching career at Northwestern State University, which houses his collection of Gauss-related material, believed to be the largest collection of its kind in the world.
Starting in 1886, he became, as a result of winning a then-customary competition, Professor for Algebra and Analytic Geometry at the University of Genoa, where he stayed for the remainder of his career.
He held the position of Professor of Mathematics at Queen's University of Ireland for forty years, from 1853 until reaching retirement age in 1893.
Selected publications The development of Newtonian calculus in Britain, 1700-1800, Cambridge University Press, 1989 (paperback 2003).
Aykut, Presses de Sciences Po, 2015) She is the editor of: La Formation polytechnicienne, 1794–1994 (with Bruno Belhoste and Antoine Picon, Dunod, 1994) La France des X.
ISBN 1-56858-139-4 The Mystery of the Aleph: Mathematics, the Kabbalah, and the Search for Infinity, 2000.
In 1839, Ludwig Adolph Sohncke (the father of Leonhard Sohncke) translated the original into German as Geschichte der geometrie, hauptsachlich mit bezug auf die neueren methoden.
In New York, he worked for the Socialist Workers Party (US) (SWP) and wrote a number of articles for the American Trotskyist press and other radical outlets.
He is best known for his discovery of previously unknown texts in the Archimedes Palimpsest, and for his edition of Euclid's Elements that T.
In 1950, Struik published his Lectures on Classical Differential Geometry, which garnered praise from Ian R.
In the 1930s he wrote a history of Indian mathematics with Bibhutibhushan Datta, which became a standard work.
In the first section, he tackles the applications of linear algebra and matrix theory; algebraic constructions such as adjacency matrix and the incidence matrix and their applications are discussed in depth.
In 1895, he traveled to Europe, where he heard Sophus Lie lecture at Leipzig and Camille Jordan at Paris.
His doctoral dissertation was The History of the Idea of a Vectorial System to 1910, which was published as the book A History of Vector Analysis two years later.
At the University of Nantes, Dhombres was director of the Centre François Viète d'histoire et philosophie des sciences et des techniques from 1985 (when it was created) until 1995.
From 2002 to 2004 he was a visiting professor at TU Darmstadt and returned in 2004 to the University of Strasbourg.
He was appointed to the magistracy of Mirzapur in 1795 and was sent to Nagpur in 1799 to negotiate an allowance with the Raja of Berar.
She and her husband moved to Caltech in 1966, where she worked as a teacher again while completing her dissertation, with a year in Rome for her husband's postdoctorate.
Eves was a strong spokesman for the Mathematical Association of America, which he joined in 1942, and whose Northeast Section he founded.
He wrote 40 papers and books on the history of mathematics, which covered many topics and several periods.
In this seminal work, Locke outlined a basic working model for how Inca quipus recorded numbers using three types of knots: the overhand knot, the figure-eight knot, and eight types of long knots.
Investigation of the Stability of Lindstedt's Equation Using Shtokalo’s Method by Samuel Kohn contains a description of Shotkalo's method in English.
Works Complementi di analisi algebrica elementare, 1909 Lezione di geometria proiettiva, 3rd edition, 2nd reprinting, 1920 Vita matematica napoletana, Napoli; volume I.
He has written essays on the history of mathematics, for example, about Helmut Hasse, Hermann Minkowski, and Emil Artin.
ISBN 978-0-7923-1495-0 Computability: Turing, Gödel, Church, and Beyond (with Jack Copeland and Oron Shagrir), MIT Press, 2013.
Nicodemi is a mathematician and mathematics educator whose research interests range from wavelets to the history of mathematics.
Life and work Kjeldsen earned her doctorate in 1999 from Roskilde University under the supervision of Anders Hede Madsen.
She is also a senior fellow at the New York University Institute for the Study of the Ancient World.
From 1956 to 1963, Shtokalo was the head of the Department of History of Mathematics at the Institute of Mathematics, a part of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences.
Annette Imhausen (also known as Annette Warner, born 12 June 1970) is a German historian of mathematics known for her work on Ancient Egyptian mathematics.
In her will, she donated money to Queen's College Library for the preservation of mathematical history books.
David Herbert Fowler (28 April 1937 – 13 April 2004) was a historian of Greek mathematics who published work on pre-Eudoxian ratio theory (using the process he called anthyphairesis).
Levin (died 2009) was a historian of ancient Greek music and mathematics, particularly known for her work on Nicomachus.
The classification is described by Daniel Corey as follows: He classifies them into 9 types of plane geometries, 27 in dimension 3, and more generally 3n in dimension n.
Author of the following papers, amongst others: "Method of deriving the Polar Equations of Dynamics & Hydrodynamics from direct physical considerations" – Dublin University Phil Transactions 1848.
Work and life Bronshtein taught at the Moscow State Technical University (MAMI), then the State College of Mechanical Engineering, on the Chair of Advanced Mathematics established in 1939.
Education and career Tobies grew up in East Germany, and studied mathematics and chemistry at Leipzig University.
In 1905 he gained his doctorate (DSc) for his thesis Networks of the Plane in Absolute Geometry and was promoted to lecturer.
Career After undergraduate studies in mathematics and philosophy at Cambridge, Gillies became a graduate student of Karl Popper and Imre Lakatos (his official PhD supervisor) at the London School of Economics, where he completed a PhD on the foundations of probability.
After leaving academia to raise a family in Norwich, she became a health research manager in the National Health Service, while continuing to work in the history of science as an independent scholar.
Hugues Charles Robert Méray (12 November 1835, in Chalon-sur-Saône, Saône-et-Loire – 2 February 1911, in Dijon) was a French mathematician.
Selected works with Michel Willem, Critical point theory and hamiltonian systems, Springer 1989 with Robert E.
Dick earned a doctorate from the University of Vienna, and a teaching credential in mathematics and physics, in 1934.
She has been the first chair of the Standing Committee for Gender Equality in Science (SCGES) from October 2021 to October 2025.
With Karl Scherer: "Approximationsprozesse und Intepolationsmethoden," BI Hochschultaschenbuch, Mannheim, 1968.
Howard Whitley Eves (10 January 1911, 6 June 2004) was an American mathematician, known for his work in geometry and the history of mathematics.
His dissertation, Translation Manifolds and the Converse of Abel's Theorem, was supervised by Bernard Saint-Donat.
From Brouwer to Hilbert, Oxford University Press, 1998, 165–167 (on Hilbert's formalism), 277–282 (on intuitionistic logic).
In addition to his numerous books, he also contributed highly recognized and popular historical articles to the American Mathematical Monthly.
From 2009 to 2012, Parshall was the Associate Dean for the Social Sciences in the College of Arts in Sciences at UVA, and from 2016 to 2019 she was the chair of the Corcoran Department of History.
References O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Abraham Seidenberg", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews Abraham Seidenberg at the Mathematics Genealogy Project
She returned to Oregon in 1966 as a doctoral student at the University of Oregon, and completed her Ph.D.
Niccolò Guicciardini Corsi Salviati (born 28 May 1957 in Florence) is an Italian historian of mathematics.
His wife, Ruth, had a leave of absence from her school for study at the Sorbonne, so the couple studied there for a year.
External links Collection of letters Dunnington exchanged with descendants of Gauss [1] Archived November 20, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
Alice Jeanne LaDuke (born June 27, 1938) is an American mathematician who specialized in mathematical analysis and the history of mathematics.
"Antisemitismus in der Weimarer Republik und die Lage jüdischer Mathematiker: Thesen und Dokumente zu einem wenig erforschten Thema (Anti-Semitism in the Weimar Republic and the situation of Jewish mathematicians: Theses and documents on a little-researched topic)".
His doctoral dissertation on Abraham de Moivre (Der Mathematiker Abraham de Moivre (1667–1754) was supervised by Helmuth Gericke and Karl Stein.
Uta Caecilia Merzbach (February 9, 1933 – June 27, 2017) was a German-American historian of mathematics who became the first curator of mathematical instruments at the Smithsonian Institution.
A Woodrow Wilson Scholar and Fulbright Scholar, he holds a master's degree in history from Harvard University and a 1971 Ph.D.
Dent & Sons, 1932) Mathematics in Aristotle (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1949) Notes Further reading Wardhaugh, Benjamin (2016).
Yabuuchi became in 1929 an assistant at Kyoto University and became in 1935 a consultant at the Kyoto Institute of Oriental Culture (now part of the Kyoto University Research Centre for the Cultural Sciences), later becoming a researcher there.
He attended the Universities of both Leipzig and Berlin, before receiving his doctorate from Leipzig in 1883.
David Hilbert and the Axiomatization of Physics (1898–1918): From Grundlagen der Geometrie to Grundlagen der Physik.
In 1871, he was appointed as an extraordinary professor at the University of Copenhagen, as well as becoming an editor of Matematisk Tidsskrift, a position he held for 18 years.
Selected publications Hermann Hankel (1863) Die Euler'schen Integrale bei unbeschränkter Variabilität des Argumentes, Voss, Leipzig.
Crowe's book about the history of the extraterrestrial life debate was highly praised, and was followed by a companion source book in 2008.
In 1948, he published an article, entitled "A Century's Balance Sheet", in which he criticized that part of Marxism which saw the "proletariat" as the revolutionary class.
In 2015, Docent Press published Schulte's dissertation as a book, Writing the History of Mathematical Notation: 1483–1700, edited by Albrecht Heeffer and Douglas Furman, including also an introduction by Heeffer, bibliographic notes by Furman, and two biographical sketches of Schulte.
José Augusto Sánchez Pérez (Madrid, 30 November 1882 – 13 November 1958) was a Spanish mathematician and member of the Spanish Royal Academy of Sciences.
However, this suggested history has been criticized by van der Waerden, who believed that books 1 through 4 were largely due to the much earlier Pythagorean school.
As successor to Otto Neugebauer in Brown's History of Mathematics Department (which Neugebauer established in 1947), Pingree numbered among his colleagues men of extraordinary learning, including Abraham Sachs and Gerald Toomer.
In 2002, She completed her doctorate in the history of mathematics at Mainz under the joint supervision of David E.
In 1959 he submitted the manuscript "Mathematical patterns of thought in the late seventeenth century" to Hoskin who submitted it to Archive for History of Exact Sciences for publication.
"Mario Pieri: the man, the mathematician, the teacher", (2010) in La Matematica nella Società e nella Cultura Rivista dell'Unione Matematica Italiana 3(3).
He was the first to give a systematic survey of Jewish literature down to the end of the eighteenth century, and to publish catalogues of the Hebrew books and manuscripts which are found in the public libraries of Europe.
Friedrich Otto Hultsch (22 July 1833 in Dresden – 6 April 1906 in Dresden) was a German classical philologist and historian of mathematics in antiquity.
In October 11, 1968, he coined the term software engineering in a lecture of that title given at the NATO Science Committee meeting in Garmisch, Germany, which has been in widespread use since, and has become a discipline in computer science.
S2CID 16646147., a very influential paper on compilers Baumann, Richard [in German]; Feliciano, Manuel; Bauer, Friedrich Ludwig; Samelson, Klaus (1964).
He has contributed pieces to The New York Times's Science and Book Reviews sections, The Los Angeles Times Op-Ed section, and Scientific American, and he has been interviewed on NPR's All Things Considered, and Interfaith Voices.
Rouse Ball, was a British mathematician, lawyer, and fellow at Trinity College, Cambridge, from 1878 to 1905.
After obtaining his PhD at the University of Heidelberg in 1851, he went to Berlin, where he eagerly followed the lectures of Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet; and upon his return to Heidelberg in 1853, he was appointed privat-docent at the university.
She has been involved in the summer program Mathpath since 2019, where she presents a two week series of history plenaries and teaches additional classes.
Selected publications Mechanistic images in geometric form: Heinrich Hertz's principles of mechanics, Oxford University Press 2005 The Prehistory of the Theory of Distributions, Studies in the History of Mathematics and the Physical Sciences, Volume 7, Springer Verlag 1982; Lützen, J.
EULERS Beiträge zum Funktionsbegriff (in German), Potsdam: Euler-Vortrag im Schlosstheater des Neuen Palais von Sanssouci, 21 May 1999 "Hilbert's Twenty-Fourth Problem" (PDF).
Springer, New York, Berlin, Heidelberg, Springer (Sources in the History of Mathematics and Physical Sciences, 9).
Siegfried Gottwald, Hans-Joachim Illgauds, Karl-Heinz Schlote (ed.): Encyclopedia of important mathematicians.
To prepare for his professorial duties, Fujiwara was sent to study from 1908 to 1911 in Göttingen, Paris and Berlin.
His six volume Mathematical Circles series, collecting humorous and interesting anecdotes about mathematicians, was recently reprinted by the MAA, who also published his two volume Great Moments in the History of Mathematics, and his autobiographical Mathematical Reminiscences in 2001.
Josif Zakharovich Shtokalo (Ukrainian: Йосип Захарович Штокало, romanized: Yosyp Zakharovych Shtokalo; November 16, 1897 – January 5, 1987) was a Ukrainian mathematician.
In 1988, by studying a scrap of Greek papyrus, Neugebauer discovered the most important single piece of evidence to date for the extensive transmission of Babylonian astronomy to the Greeks and for the continuing use of Babylonian methods for 400 years even after Ptolemy wrote the Almagest.
Her work on Karl Marx's mathematical manuscripts began in 1930s and may have had some influence on the study of non-standard analysis in China.
He took a professorship at the University of Munich in 1963, where he was appointed as the first Professor of the History of Science.
For this edition of Schulte's work, many instances of mathematical notation, hand-drawn by Schulte for her thesis, were replaced by digital reproductions of the original notations she discusses, showing each notation in its surrounding context.
First, he is said to have written a History of Theology, that discussed the Babylonian, Egyptian, and Greek ideas regarding the origins of the universe.
From 2000 to 2004, she was at the Dibner Institute for the History of Science and Technology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
She then studied at Girton College, Cambridge, gaining a PhD in 1929 under the supervision of Professor E.
Career and publications Nicodemi did her undergraduate studies at New York University, and completed her Ph.D.
Much of this work is collected in his book Mathematical Card Magic: Fifty-Two New Effects He has appeared in Brady Haran's Numberphile web series.
Fauvel was a visiting scholar in the Mathematics Department at Colorado College on several occasions, including one on a Fulbright Fellowship during the Winter and Spring of 1999.
She is a director of research for the French National Centre for Scientific Research, affiliated with the Centre Jean Pépin at the École normale supérieure (Paris).
References External links Colm Mulcahy at the Mathematics Genealogy Project official web page bi-monthly List of Card Colm columns written for the Mathematical Association of America
May Prize medals awarded by the International Commission on the History of Mathematics on 26 July 2021 at the International Congress for History and Philosophy of Science in Prague.
Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, New York 1976 (Sources in the History of Mathematics and Physical Sciences, 1).
Hofmann, bibliographic note and summary bibliography of his writings", Historia Mathematica 2(2): 147–152 doi:10.1016/0315-0860(75)90139-1 List of his writings: Joseph Ehrenfried Hofmann's 70th Birthday, casting notices from the mathematical seminar, Issue 90, 1971, ISSN 0373-8221, pp.
Beno Arbel (Hebrew: בנו ארבל; 20 January 1939 – 9 April 2013) was an Israeli mathematician and historian of mathematics who worked as Professor of Mathematics at Tel Aviv University.
Other notable doctoral students were Johann Christian Polycarp Erxleben, Johann Pfaff (doctoral advisor of Carl Friedrich Gauss), Johann Tobias Mayer, Heinrich Wilhelm Brandes, Farkas Bolyai (father of János Bolyai), and Georg Klügel.
With John Stachel and Jürgen Renn, Corry discovered new documents concerning the priority dispute between Hilbert and Einstein, and these new documents support Einstein against Hilbert.
From 2005 to 2017 she was maître de conférences at the University of Lille in France, also holding various short-term positions in France, Germany, and the US.
Also translated into German as Wege und Irrwege — Eine Geschichte der Mathematik (Birkhäuser, 1994) and into Russian as Пути и лабиринты: Очерки по истории математики (Mir, 1986).
Schroeder-Heister (eds.), "Proof-Theoretic Semantics", special issue of "Synthese", 2006, 148, issue 3, pp.
Davenport and the Art of Wind Engineering, about Alan Garnett Davenport (Princeton University Press, 2012), winner of the W.
After several additional visiting professorships at the Technical University of Braunschweig, University of Göttingen, University of Stuttgart, and University of Linz, she settled at the University of Jena until her retirement.
On the one hand, he was concerned with how one culture might appropriate, and so alter, the science of another (earlier) culture in order to make that earlier scientific knowledge more accessible to the recipient culture.
Gerald James Toomer (born 23 November 1934) is a historian of astronomy and mathematics who has written numerous books and papers on ancient Greek and medieval Islamic astronomy.
Lam Lay-Yong and Shen Kangshen (沈康身) (1989) "Methods of solving linear equations in traditional China", Historia Mathematica, Volume 16, Issue 2, Pages 107–122.
His parents were Sir George Colebrooke, 2nd Baronet, MP for Arundel and Chairman of the East India Company from 1769, and Mary Gaynor, daughter and heir of Patrick Gaynor of Antigua.
Biography Yanovskaya was born in Pruzhany, a town near Brest, to a Jewish family of accountant Alexander Neimark.
Following the publication of an award winning article, he proceeded to study under Karl Weierstrass and Leopold Kronecker in Berlin.
She has been a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science since 2005, and in 2012, she became one of the inaugural fellows of the American Mathematical Society.
She was originally from Los Angeles, and attended Hollywood High School and the University of California, Los Angeles before earning a bachelor's degree in 1948 from the University of California, Berkeley.
He attended the High School of Tohoku University, and in 1911 was admitted to the Imperial University of Tokyo.
Flood obtained his doctorate through part-time study, as he had already acquired a family and a job.
He is the creator and curator of the Annals of Irish Mathematics and Mathematicians, which chronicles four centuries of mathematical activity in Ireland, and has hosted monthly blogs since September 2016.
Stelle di congruenze e parallelismo assoluto: basi geometriche di una recente teoria di Einstein, Rend.
He has written biographies of the mathematicians Sophus Lie, Niels Henrik Abel and Gösta Mittag-Leffler, Jacob Aall, Conrad Nicolai Schwach, and Stein Rokkan.
Pakis, trans., Birkhäuser, 2012) Margarete Kahn und Klara Löbenstein: Mathematikerinnen – Studienrätinnen – Freundinnen (with York-Egbert König and Christina Prauss, Hentrich und Hentrich, 2011) Women in Industrial Research (ed.
van Est, Dirk Jan Struik, Levensberichten en herdenkingen (Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen, 2002), pp.
Life James Gow was the son of the artist James Gow (Sr.), who was a member of the Royal Society of British Artists.
2002: (with Takanori Kusuba) Arabic Astronomy in Sanskrit: Al-Birjandī on Tadhkira II, Chapter 11 and its Sanskrit Translation (Brill, Leiden).
Auguste Franziska Dick (née Kraus, 1910–1993) was an Austrian mathematician, historian of mathematics, and handwriting expert, known for her research on the history of mathematics under the Nazis, and for her biography of Emmy Noether.
1909: A History of the Logarithmic Slide Rule and Allied Instruments The Engineering News Publishing Company.
There, he became dean from 1913 to 1919, then moved back to the University of Bologna, where he retired in 1936.
3, Roshdi Rashed, Routledge, 2013) Ibn al-Haytham, New Spherical Geometry and Astronomy (A history of Arabic science and mathematics, vol.
"Lost Greek mathematical works in Arabic translation." Mathematical Intelligencer, volume 6, 1984, pages 32–38.
In 1950, he published a paper called The hyperplane sections of normal varieties, which has proved fundamental in later advances.
ISBN 978-0-691-02511-7 e:The story of a Number, by Eli Maor, Princeton University Press (Princeton, New Jersey) (1994) ISBN 0-691-05854-7 Venus in Transit, 2000, Princeton University Press.
He translated from Greek and Latin into English: Ptolemy's Almagest, a 2nd-century book on astronomy, the 13 books of Euclid's Elements, Apollonius' works on conic sections, and some works of Plato (Timaios, Critias), and St.
5 (1983): 299–306 doi:10.1080/0025570X.1983.11977061 "Sturm and Liouville's work on ordinary linear differential equations.
Education and career Fujiwara graduated in June 1902 from secondary school at the Third Higher School in Kyoto and then studied mathematics at the University of Tokyo, where he graduated in 1905.
Early life and education Nahum Rabinovitch was born in Montreal, Quebec to Sarah (née Weiner) and Sam Rabinovitch.
Becker's Postulate later played a role in the formalization given, by Charles Hartshorne, the American process theologian, of the Ontological Proof of God's existence, stimulated by conversations with the logical positivist and opponent of the alleged proof, Rudolf Carnap.
In 2001, she was awarded the Alexander Koyré Medal of the International Academy of the History of Science.
1968: Essays in the History of Mechanics, Springer-Verlag 1969: Rational Thermodynamics, McGraw-Hill, 1969.
One of the key ideas in the "first draft" was that the programmer could store a program in the computer's electronic memory, rather than program the computer using mechanical switches and patch cables.
xi–xiv), the following independent essays of Steinschneider deserve special mention: "Ueber die Volksliteratur der Juden", in R.
From the late 1980s, Arbel served as director of the program for gifted young students in mathematics and computer science at Tel Aviv University.
This is where lunar six data becomes valuable — because these intervals are measured just before and after the full moon and on both horizons, their combination ends up cancelling out all contributing factors except lunar anomaly.
More important, Eudemus wrote a number of influential books that clarified Aristotle's works: Eudemus's Physics (Φυσικά) was a compact, and more didactical version of Aristotle's homonymous work.
After securing a DSc, Singh went to Lucknow University, where he became a Reader in 1940 and a professor in 1943.
2006: James Joseph Sylvester: Jewish Mathematician in a Victorian World, Johns Hopkins University Press, ISBN 0-8018-8291-5 2014: with Victor J.
Ore's early work on lattice theory led him to the study of equivalence and closure relations, Galois connections, and finally to graph theory, which occupied him to the end of his life.
Locke's collection included notable mathematical works such as: Numerorum Mysteria (1591) by Pietro Bongo.
Book With Jeanne LaDuke, she wrote Pioneering Women in American Mathematics: The Pre-1940 PhD’s (American Mathematical Society and London Mathematical Society, 2009).
"The Mathematics of the Past: Distinguishing Its History From Our Heritage." Historia Mathematica, Vol.
Smith, attorney and surrogate judge, and Mary Elizabeth Bronson, who taught her young son Latin and Greek.
After graduating in 1900, Kollros taught mathematics from 1900 to 1909 in secondary school in his hometown of La Chaux-de-Fonds.
[Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Publishers], ISBN 978-0-12-215560-4, MR 0478177 Dieudonné, Jean (1981), Choix d'œuvres mathématiques.
In 1958 he and Curt Schmieden developed their own approach to infinitesimals through field extensions, independently of Abraham Robinson.
209, Philadelphia, 1997) Ibn al-Haytham's Theory of Conics, Geometrical Constructions and Practical Geometry (A history of Arabic Science and mathematics, vol.
With Amy Dahan, she wrote a popular French-language history of mathematics that was translated into English and German.
Feferman, Solomon (1975), "A language and axioms for explicit mathematics", Algebra and logic (Fourteenth Summer Res.
Elena Anne Corie Marchisotto (born 1945) is a mathematician, mathematics educator, and historian of mathematics.
Considered the founder of the Italian school for the history of mathematics, Boncompagni was one of the most prominent figures in the field in the second half of the nineteenth century.
His initial courses in Zurich were in civil engineering, but in his second year (under the influence of Karl Geiser) he switched to mathematics and physics.
The Nazi government closed the association in June 1943; they arrested the family, along with other leading members of the association, and sent them to the Theresienstadt concentration camp on August 4, 1943.
He has also written on the teaching of history, edited the historical section of the website of the New England Society in the City of Brooklyn and served on the Test Development Committee for the first Advanced Placement World History Exams.
Bibliography Rational Mechanics: The Classic Notre Dame Course (Dover Books on Physics) (2014) by R.
He wrote a history, covering the years 1926 to 2000) of the Eastern Pennsylvania and Delaware Section (EPaDel or EPADEL) of the Mathematical Association of America (MAA).
Her other books include Kuxan Suum: Path to the Center of the Universe (2010) and Euler Celestial Analysis: Introduction to Spacecraft Orbit Mechanics (2018).
References External links The article was created as a translation (by Google) of the corresponding article in German Wikipedia.
It was titled: En kontekstualiseret matematikhistorisk analyse af ikke-lineær programmering: udviklingshistorie og multipel opdagelse (A contextualized mathematical history analysis of nonlinear programming: development history and multiple discovery.
Hendrik Jan Maarten "Henk" Bos (17 July 1940 – 12 February 2024) was a Dutch historian of mathematics.
In September 2019, the Pakistan Cricket Board named it as one of the venues to host matches in the 2019–20 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy.
His sculptural model of the Key Savings and Loan Association is still intact and held in a collection of his drawings and works at the Denver Public Library.
The surface differs from the particles stuck in adhesion techniques, in that they are more of a rubber carpet, cut to size then tightly seamed together (in the linear direction along the lane lines).
RacingLoop were brought in as consultants and Hermann Tilke was charged with the design of a circuit intended to draw in MotoGP and the Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters, however ground was not broken until 2014.
The hill was originally constructed in 1961, and renovated in 1991 and 1992, but had to be moved slightly as the Bothnia Line railway line was being built.
If the border is frozen to the ice during play, this can be hazardous to the players, and the referee can therefore decide to start or continue the game without such border.
This gives children more time and control so they can serve, rally, and score from the first lesson on courts that are sized to fit their bodies.
A boulodrome is a venue designed for training and competitions involving ball and skittle games (such as pétanque, boule lyonnaise, boule bretonne, jeu provençal, and others).
Women In professional sumo, women are not allowed to enter or touch the dohyō, a tradition stemming from Shinto and Buddhist beliefs that women are "impure" because of menstrual blood.
Of these over 300,000 workers were greenskeepers for golf courses, schools, resorts, and public parks.
Frederick Heath (April 15, 1861 – March 3, 1953) was an American architect responsible for numerous projects in Tacoma, Washington.
The centers are located in the provinces of Ankara, Adana, Antalya, Artvin, Bolu, Bursa, Erzurum, Gaziantep, İzmir, Kahramanmaraş, Kayseri, Kocaeli, Konya, Mersin, Rize, Sakarya, Samsun and Trabzon, usw.
All through his career, Bolles was "a strong believer in the artistic embellishment of public buildings." For the 1939 fair he not only assisted his father, but also worked under the Spanish-American muralist Jose Moya del Pino on murals for the Temple of Religion and for the State Ballroom.
In modern usage, the term "bleachers", which is not used outside North America, almost always refers only to the seating area, and those sitting there may be called "bleacher fans" or "bleacherites".
Indoor sports facilities includes courts for badminton, basketball, and volleyball, and a wrestling arena.
The lowest attendance was at the 2021 edition in Latvia, where fans were banned due to the COVID-19 pandemic except for one game attended by 934 people.
Football fields were used soon after this, by pouring water on them in the wintertime to get a good, flat and safe ice surface.
He played cover point and centre for the Harvard Crimson men's ice hockey team and was the third consecutive Newton High School graduate (after George Owen and Tad Crosby) to serve as captain of the freshman squad.
Alternative speed skating tracks Although ISU regulations state that minimum measures for a standard speed skating track, alternative track lengths may be used for competition.
In the United States, college sports are very popular and at least one significant ice hockey league retains an amateur requirement.
Other ventures Rickard sought to repeat the success of the Madison Square Garden by building seven "Madison Square Gardens" around the country.
Emory Daniel Jones (April 7, 1897 – September 15, 1977) was an American sports promoter who was the manager of the St.
The new arena is expected to be finished by the end of 2027, and will replace the original Palau Blaugrana, which is across the street and currently serves as the home arena for Barcelona's basketball, handball and futsal teams.
Honors Brown was honored by having the NBA championship trophy named after him after he died in 1964.
After the death of his first wife, he married Mary Edith Thompson Gramlich, a widow with two daughters, Sybil and Jane, January 17, 1936.
The park is popular for sports, and contains a number of facilities for not only running, but also soccer, tennis, volleyball, and basketball.
One of the more unusual entrants was a Kurtis Kraft roadster for Akton Miller, a car constructed in the US, with a powerful 6.4 litre Chrysler engine, mounted on a space-frame single seat chassis, designed for use on American oval circuits.
However, some high capacity venues were used for baseball, cricket, Gaelic games, rugby union, rugby league, Australian rules football and Canadian football.
The car swerved to the left of the track, bounced over a three-meter deep and four-meter wide protection ditch and a fence and crashed into the grandstand, killing him along with 22 spectators.
For playing rules relating to the batter's box, see Rules 6.05 and 6.06 of the Official Baseball Rules.
The seating capacity must also be disclosed to the copyright owner in seeking a license for the copyrighted work to be performed in that venue.
It is a thick line, and in the NHL must "contain regular interval markings of a uniform distinctive design, which will readily distinguish it from the two blue lines" (i.e.
The RusSki Gorki Jumping Center is a ski jumping venue located in the Esto-Sadok village on the northern slope of Aibga Ridge in Krasnaya Polyana, Russia.
The traps direct the spent bullets to a collection area in front of the trap or, for high-energy projectiles, at the back of the trap.
Venue and general configuration Since 1980, all figure skating competitions have been held in completely covered and enclosed rinks.
The early slalom courses were all set in natural rivers, but when whitewater slalom became an Olympic sport for the first time, at the 1972 Munich Games, the venue was the world's first concrete-channel artificial whitewater course, the Eiskanal in Augsburg.
It is also known from archaeological excavations that ballcourts were the sites of sumptuous feasts, although whether these were conducted in the context of the ballgame or as another event entirely is not as yet known.
However, due to concerns regarding pitch conditions and overall readiness, the club's home matches were relocated to Bolpur Stadium in the neighbouring Birbhum district.
The 2024 tournament, in Prague and Ostrava (Czech Republic), holds the record for overall attendance and the record for average spectators per game.
The Open Championship is an annual golf competition established in 1860, and is organised by The R&A.
Construction began in the second quarter of 2021 to be built and was to be homologated by 2023, the year the Hungarian motorcycle Grand Prix had been expected to return.
Future Bright Group opened Future Bright Ice Rink in Future Bright Amusement Park (1992) Aberdeen Club opened Aberdeen Marina Club Ice Rink in Aberdeen Marina Club (1993) ETON Properties opened Sky Rink in Dragon Centre (1994).
In addition, there must be 1.00 m between courts, both lengthwise and widthwise, resulting in a total of 65.00 m in length (3.00 m between the four courts and 2.00 m at the edges) and 26.00 m in width.
In the sport of cricket, the cricket pitch refers not to the entire field of play, but to the section of the field on which batting and bowling take place in the centre of the field.
The school's main indoor arena, Conte Forum (also known as Kelley Rink for hockey games), is directly attached to its football venue, Alumni Stadium.
They are ideal for the urban areas that would benefit from a contained area where children can play safely.
In league each team can be tackled six times before handing over possession; moreover, the action stops after each successful tackle (i.e., the ball is not contested after a tackle).
This can include areas such as roads, sidewalks, parking lots maintenance and repair (including snow removal).
This came after rugby league accused rugby union of "shamateurism" to Inland Revenue in the UK and due to Kerry Packer signing top union players to professional contracts in secret for a breakaway union competition.
The arena will serve as the new home arena for the basketball (Barcelona Bàsquet), handball (Barcelona Handbol) and Futsal (Barcelona Futsal) sections of the multi-sports club Barcelona.
The highest number of events on the list have been promoted by the Pride Fighting Championships (PRIDE), the largest mixed martial arts (MMA) promotion company in Japan until 2007.
This may be achieved by an automatic floor watering facility – whereby the floor is watered from sprinklers above it, by regular watering with hoses and ground-based sprinklers or by underground irrigation using e.g.
Currently, Tianchi Lodge offers 3 rooms for twelve people, 4 rooms for eight people, and 5 rooms for four people, which can accommodate a total of 88 people.
The pitch is prepared differently from the rest of the field, to provide a harder surface for bowling.
The crash was caused when two racing cars apparently lost control and collided with a group of spectators during the 17th race of the 1500cc Ford Laser Mazda 323 category.
Some activities played on a game court are enjoyable modifications of other sports (such as short-court tennis) that allow for similar skills to be developed as the 'regulation' game, but on a reduced-scale court size.
Estadio Jalisco: Futbol Club Atlas and Guadalajara until Guadalajara moved to their new home of Estadio OmniLife in 2010.
Rules regarding the shape of goalposts and crossbars are somewhat more lenient, but they have to conform to a shape that does not pose a threat to players.
11 December 1961 Demonstrations Stadium (Arabic: ملعب مظاهرات 11 ديسمبر 1961), is a multi-use stadium in Chelghoum Laïd, Algeria.
Fourteen tournaments have had averages over 9,000 spectators per game (including 1972 edition which is not the top 30 most attended tournaments by total attendance), and eight have topped the 10,000 mark.
This has been supplanted by an advanced video system, which allows measurements in 0.5-meter increments.
Career Boston Garden After spending months lobbying Boston Garden treasurer George Clare for a job, Powers was hired as an accounting clerk in January 1929.
On 27 September 2022, it was announced that the circuit would host the Kazakhstan motorcycle Grand Prix until at least 2028 starting in 2023.
Cages vary: some replace the metal fencing with a net, others have a different shape from an octagon, as the term "The Octagon" is trademarked by the UFC (although the 8-sided shape itself is not trademarked).
The football-crazy Bengali was nowhere to be seen, as they faced stiff resistance from their families to attend the next set of matches.
Anoeta Sports Complex (Spanish: Ciudad deportiva Anoeta; Basque: Anoetako kirolgunea) is a sports area located at the south of the city of Donostia (San Sebastián), Basque Country of Spain.
Oslo announced in January 2004 that they, jointly with Lillehammer, planned to bid for the 2014 Winter Olympics.
One example of a death on stage was described by Hung Gar Grandmaster Chiu Kow (1895–1995), father of Grandmaster Chiu Chi Ling.
Louis Flyers (American Hockey Association/American Hockey League), vice president and general manager of the St.
All but one of the current tracks on this list are constructed of reinforced concrete and use artificial refrigeration to keep the track cool enough during early and late season to hold ice.
Ducey was an ice hockey reporter for the Hollywood News during that winter, then a sportswriter for the Edmonton Bulletin in 1931 and 1932.
A grandstand is a normally permanent structure for seating spectators, typically at sports stadiums and including both auto racing and horse racing.
Existing stadiums, most notably Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton and BC Place in Vancouver, have undergone major upgrades.
Life Jacobs was born to Polish-Jewish immigrants Moisha "Max" Jacobs, and Anna Blachmann in New York City, in 1900.
In general, a ground belongs only to the batter who is closest to it, and stays so until the other batter gets closer to it.
The Canopy Walk links the mall directly to most nearby landmarks, thus eliminating the need for pedestrians to cross the road or drive to get to places in the city.
The Port Imperial Street Circuit was a 2011 plan for a 3.2 mi (5.1 km) motor racing circuit in Weehawken and West New York, New Jersey, in the United States, to be constructed on the Hudson Waterfront around Weehawken Port Imperial.
On September 16, 1964, Powers was chosen to succeed the late Brown as president and general manager of the Boston Garden.
Materials A typical synthetic ice rink will consist of many panels (usually in typical building material sheet sizes) of thin surface material assembled on top of a sturdy, level and smooth sub-floor (anything from concrete to wood or even dirt or grass) to create a large skating area.
Hamilton's time as president began during a period of growth in junior hockey which saw CAHA registration increase to 13,675 players.
Various media outlets produce their own figures and sometimes these do not agree, but the differences in the averages given are usually no more than one or two percent.
These sunken court markers are almost invariably round and usually decorated with ballgame-related scenes or iconography.
In 1893, the box was replaced by the pitcher's plate, although "the box" is still used today as a slang term for the pitcher's location on the field.
Renovations between 2011 and 2016 included upgrades to the roof, façade, and air conditioning, chiller and surveillance systems.
It is a part of the Seefeld Nordic Competence Centre consisting of two hills, a normal hill with a hill size of HS109 (K-99) and medium hill with at HS75 (K-68).
In 2023, the intended installation of a MUGA at Much Hoole by the council noted potential impacts of noise, disturbance, and lighting, as well as questions about surround sporting facility usage, but this could be met by reduced hours of operation.
Alternatively, a new small hill could be built at the location of the demolished Midtstubakken, next to Holmenkollbakken.
He was made President of the Hershey Trust Company (1956) and then President of the Hershey Bank (1957).
Balatonring was to be a 4.650 km (2.889 mi) motor racing circuit, located in Sávoly, Hungary, on the western end of the Balaton.
The Matratzenlager is usually found in the attic of the hut and can consist of about 10 to 100 bedspaces.
A team caught with the ball in their own in-goal must restart play with a drop kick of the ball from between their posts, this usually results in the other team gaining possession.
The fanaticism in Kolkata regarding the Beautiful Game was gone and took nearly two decades to recover, until when the Salt Lake Stadium saw a record-breaking attendance of 131,000 in the 1997 Federation Cup.
He was also the longtime general manager of the Harris-owned Pittsburgh Hornets of the American Hockey League and served as league president from 1961 to 1964.
Reports have also suggested that the sports enclave will be a part of a future bid for the 2036 Summer Olympics from Ahmedabad.
Surface The surface of a game court—as opposed to simply playing on concrete or asphalt—is designed for safe play and to reduce injury.
Balmer died of a heart attack on December 8, 1968, after delivering an address at the Pittsburgh Athletic Association.
The process of building the dohyō and its 66-centimeter-high (26 in) platform takes three days and is done with traditional tools.
This sport complex will be the main site of 2013 Bolivarian Games that will be held in the city in November 2013.
In outdoor sports, field sizes may vary between American football and soccer requirements, or baseball fields.
In a professional game, the batter who is on deck traditionally waits in a location in the foul territory called the on-deck circle.
In February 2021, the Rio de Janeiro city government officially abandoned the Deodoro site as an option for the Rio race track.
It has a total area of 45,300 m² spread out on seven floors, and houses amongst other things a 1.2 km long indoor all-season skiing trail and a full-size football pitch with a spectator capacity of 3,300.
To help prevent the loss, Governor Hurtado proclaimed that, in Santiago, every 24th and 25 July, the commemoration of Saint Jacob - patron saint of the city -, the cattle would be gathered in the Plaza de Armas de Santiago to be branded and selected.
It shall be fitted with small spikes on underside to prevent the goal from being moved by the wind or by minor touch of a player, so that it stays in place.
It would be owned by the Provincial Government of Bohol (PGBh) and the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) is intended to set the preparatory activities and to conceptualize the detailed engineering design of the said project.
Starting in May 2020, the Nantou Branch of the Forestry Agency carried out a renovation project on the Tianchi Lodge for about four months, including exterior renovation, waterproofing, and surrounding facilities, in response to the policy of opening up the mountains and forests.
The disco craze from popular 1970s culture led to another increase in the popularity of roller rinks—or roller discos, as some became.
Opened in December 1896, the north side of the grounds featured the ice rink and a heated bandstand.
This race was marred by the death of at least 22 spectators as well as driver Emilio Materassi on lap 17, when Materassi lost control of his car on the main straight at over 200 km/h while trying to overtake Giulio Foresti.
History Although it was inaugurated in the presence of the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, the sports complex was built solely with funds from the FPF and with the support of 6.5 million from UEFA and 1 million from FIFA and without financial support from the Portuguese state.
He was named Edmonton's "Sportsman of the Year" in 1954 and 1957, and was inducted into the Edmonton Sports Hall of Fame in 1972.
Small-bore rifle Small-bore (.22 Long Rifle caliber) rifle ranges are typically 50 metres (55 yd) to accommodate the Olympic 50 m Rifle event, but they can extend to 200 metres (219 yd).
After they applied cable tension structure technique in this project, a lot of projects around the world started to implement this technique.
The High Huts of the White Mountains in New Hampshire are generally "full service" (cooks serve food) through summer and early fall, while some are open the rest of the year as self-service huts, at which hikers bring and prepare their own food.
Jiujiu Cabins uses a solar power system and is equipped with a lithium-ion battery energy storage system to cope with the intermittent nature of renewable energy.
This method was used at Shea Stadium (and continues at Shea's replacement, Citi Field) in New York, Oracle Park in San Francisco, and at Petco Park in San Diego.
Each team generally has its own bullpen consisting of two pitching rubbers and plates at regulation distance from each other.
Czech Republic hosted six of the top 30 most attended tournaments (including three tournaments held in Czechoslovakia) as well as three of the top 5 attended tournaments.
In addition, no attempts were made to enter through the second floor's window and the fire engine's ladder was not installed properly.
A standard ring is between 16 and 24 feet (4.9 and 7.3 m) to a side between the ropes with another 2 feet (0.61 m) outside.
There is no charge for use but neither are there any facilities – they have no electricity or piped water supply.
Bakee Mtaani (Basketball in the Hood) is a sports-based community program, an initiative of the Jonathan Jackson Foundation that focuses on building basketball courts in Nairobi, Kenya.
The Auto Club of Brescia took steps to try to combat the unsportsmanlike tactics by which some competitors sought to negate the procedure of drawing lots for departure times.
The term was coined by Jane Erkko, a Finnish figure skating official who was on the organizing committee for the 1983 World Figure Skating Championships which were held in Helsinki.
First introduced in the spring tournament of 1928, they are painted 90 cm (35 in) long, 6 cm (2+3⁄8 in) wide and 70 cm (28 in) apart.
Roman race-course At its simplest, the Roman race-course took the form of two posts; each called a discrimen or a meta, round which the runners, whether on foot, on horses or in chariots, raced.
In 1990, he was appointed a board member of the Korean Institute of Architects, and in 1994, he was appointed as a National plan-check Committee Member in the Ministry of Construction of South Korea.
The Sports complex Mansiche is the current home of Trujillo's professional sports teams, a city of northern Peru.
His share of Celtics ownership passed to his widow, Marjorie Brown, who sold the team the following year.
They have currently been 8 series released and they feature special Legends, Pride, and WEC style figures as well.
Some sporting venues can accommodate over one hundred thousand spectators, such as the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in the United States, which has a capacity of 257,325 people.
At one time, there were seats where the black area was, but because of distractions the seats were removed and the area painted black.
The main arena seats 2,000 and was home to the reborn Quebec Remparts of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League from 1997 to 1999 when they moved back to their traditional home at the Colisée Pepsi.
In November 2015, it was announced that the facility would be named the BioSteel Centre, after corporate sponsor BioSteel Sports Nutrition.
James Gilmore Balmer (June 18, 1894 – December 8, 1968) was an American sports and entertainment executive from Pittsburgh who worked for the Harris chain of theaters.
For pétanque, the dimensions of a boulodrome must be multiples of 15.00 m in length and 4.00 m in width (for example: 60.00 m × 20.00 m).
The project cost is ₱200 million and it is the largest project proposed by Former Bohol Governor Arthur Yap.
When World War II created a lack of playing opportunities, Mulligan worked for the railroad full time, rising to the position of assistant yardmaster.
Velodromes no longer in use List of oldest cycling tracks and velodromes This list exposes the oldest tracks around the world that are still existing today.
Rio de Janeiro's mayor-elect Eduardo Paes has ruled out building the racetrack in the Deodoro neighborhood, in the Camboatá forest, due to political agreements; he will evaluate another location for the racetrack's construction.
Tactics and plays are similar to those used in sports such as ice hockey, roller hockey and floorball.
It marked the first time the games had ever been held in Assam and only the second time in the Northeast, after Manipur.
Heath was known as the "Father of the Stadium" for his work on Stadium Bowl in Tacoma, one of his best-known projects.
A straight line drawn between the centers of the two on-deck circles should pass 10 feet (3 m) behind home plate.
From the 2015–16 season there are trial runs (city event in Moscow, Junior World Cup Seiseralm) and parallel competitions in ski areas (for example in Kühtai / Tyrol and on the Seiseralm / Italy).
The administration of the UFC Anti-Doping Program, including sanctioning decisions, will be handled exclusively and independently by Combat Sports Anti-Doping (CSAD), where the former FBI agent George Piro would serve as the independent administrator of the UFC's anti-doping program.
While working as a poker dealer and bartender at the Monte Carlo saloon and gambling hall, he and Wilson Mizner began promoting boxing matches.
In particular, the perpetrator of a crime would not know whether or not other users might be undercover police or security guards.
The International Association for Sports Surface Sciences (ISSS) is the union of labs and experts in the field of sports surfaces.
The length of a superpipe ranges from 400 ft (120 m) to 600 ft (180 m), depending on available terrain and construction funding.
Some units incorporate a built-in hydraulic or electric actuation system for raising and lowering the unit.
Many stadiums had a running track around the perimeter of the pitch allowing them to be used for athletics.
Entertainment industry Turnbuckles are used in nearly all rigging performed in the entertainment industry, including theatre, film, and live concert performances.
The field of play is a fixed size – 100 m (110 yards) long and 68 m (74 yards) wide and does not include the line markings, meaning all touchlines and dead ball lines are considered out of play.
Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment (MLSE), owner of Toronto FC, spent more than $21 million building the facility and pays rent for the land on a 20-year lease, with an aim to becoming the epicentre of soccer development in Canada.
With an average daily footfall of more than 80,000, it is one of the most visited places in Uttar Pradesh.
The Andreasried Velodrome (Erfurt, Germany) was originally built in 1885 but was entirely redeveloped in 2006–2007.
On November 30, 1978, the stadium set an attendance record that still has not been broken to this date.
In Canada and the United States, smaller stands are called bleachers, and are usually far more basic and typically single-tiered (hence the difference from a "grand stand").
The race was won by von Trips's American teammate Phil Hill; since von Trips was the only one who could challenge him, Hill won the World Championship with one race to go, becoming the first American driver to win the Formula One World Championship.
Indoor courts Some tennis courts are indoors, which allows play regardless of weather conditions and is more comfortable for spectators.
Consequently, the Kenyan government lifted the curfew and released the detained individuals unconditionally.
Grass courts were once among the most common tennis surfaces, but are now rare due to high maintenance costs, as they must be watered and mown often, and take a longer time to dry after rain than hard courts.
The team's ownership, Oilers Entertainment Group, ultimately decided on a downtown arena which would become Rogers Place.
Construction work on the 200 million Euro project had started on 6 November 2008, and the facility was due to host its first MotoGP race on 20 September 2009.
Cole worked closely with architect Alexander Ewing as Ewing's project manager on the new headquarters.
A basketball ground has seating capacity of 250 people where handball and volleyball matches can also be held.
To address this, tennis court contractors Grimshaw Sports developed Redgra in 1959 by adapting the company's existing mix used for tennis courts.
A new agreement was announced on June 27, 1936, where the BIHA agreed to the CAHA approving player transfers, and that all players suspended by the CAHA would not play in Great Britain.
All users of a bivouac are required to take their waste with them and leave everything in a tidy manner.
This foundation was founded by Iwamoto Kaoru (1902–1999), donating 530 million yen from his own means.
He was reelected in June 1953, but two months later, the Flyers folded and Jones resigned as league president.
Since the 2002–2003 season, Ruka has regularly hosted World Cup competitions, and sometimes also hosts the Continental Cup.
Security Because of the privacy afforded by changing rooms, they create a problem in the trade-off between security and privacy, where in it may be possible for crime to be perpetrated by people using the cover of privacy to sell drugs, or steal clothing from a department store.
Hamilton declared the playoffs were financially successful, and felt that the CAHA had the confidence of the Canadian public for tending to the "moral and physical uplift of our athletes".
Although this side effect can be positive for resistance training, skaters report missing out on the fun of effortless skating.
History Borderite Stadium, originally called Blaine High School Stadium, was first built in 1950, but became what it is more known as today after the renovations in the early 2020s.
At the time, the city of Philadelphia limited boxing contests to six rounds; since his arena was outside the city, he could, and did, stage 15-round bouts there.
1996–1997: Opening and closure of Yuen Long Plaza Ice Rink It was said that Sun Hung Kai Properties moved some of the equipment of Tsuen Wan Plaza and opened another rink in Yuen Long Plaza.
A bivouac box is a prefabricated shelter for mountain hikers or climbers, typically provides a sleeping area for 4–12 people.
Mountain bothy character Most bothies are ruined buildings which have been restored to a basic standard, providing a windproof and watertight shelter.
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special restaurants, merchandise stands, and lounge areas of the venue that are not otherwise available to standard ticketholders.
a car track) is a closed circuit, instead of a street circuit utilizing temporarily closed public roads.
Brown went on to become general manager of the Boston Bruins ice hockey team, and founding owner and general manager of the Boston Celtics men's professional basketball team.
MLSE would contribute to the cost of a parking study of Exhibition Place, leading to a new parking facility and the reconstruction of green space to replace the ball diamond.
Opinions differed amongst the other drivers as to who was directly to blame for the crash, and such differences remain to this day.
The Sevens Stadium is a venue for rugby, association football, Gaelic football, Australian football (Aussie rules football), netball, basketball, cricket, tennis, track and field, baseball, and concerts.
The 1978 season is often referred to as the best in the school's history, ending the season with a record of 11–2.
The firm grew, becoming become Cox Architecture, with offices across Australia as well as in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
Michael Carrick, CEO of Heads of The Valleys Development Company, said negotiations with the Welsh Government and Aviva would continue.
A swimming pool, swimming bath, wading pool, paddling pool, or simply pool, is a man-made structure designed to hold water to enable swimming and associated activities.
A Chapel-en-le-Frith MUGA, built in 2010 following community fundraising, was removed in October 2025 following ongoing noise complaints from some nearby residents, but lamented by other site users.
An enthusiastic Buckeyes football fan, for years he had seats in Ohio Stadium in the row behind fellow Daytonian Orville Wright, another enthusiastic fan.
Description After the failed Balatonring project, Hungary would once again try to build a circuit for MotoGP, this time to be built in Hajdúnánás near Debrecen.
At the time, the cattle in Chile were not well identified and it was not uncommon for the animals to get lost.
He completed the 992-mile distance in 10 hours, 27 minutes and 47 seconds- an average speed of 94.841 mph (152.632 km/h).
Construction As there are a number of professional boxing organizations, the standards of construction vary.
The cost to build the temporary structure with a seating capacity for 4,000 people was CA$2,000 (equivalent to $56,233 in 2025).
However, in September 2023, it was announced that MotoGP will be planning to return Hungaroring from 2025, and include Balaton Park Circuit as a reserve circuit for 2024 without mentioning this circuit.
In Canadian football, Hewitt managed the Toronto Argonauts from 1905 to 1907, served as vice-president of the Ontario Rugby Football Union, and helped organize the meeting which established the Inter-provincial Rugby Football Union in 1907.
Maanexit (also spelled Manexit or Mayanexit) was a Nipmuc village on the Quinebaug River (Maanexit River) and Old Connecticut Path in Connecticut.
Seven or eight Indians accused of killing settlers were hanged, and the rest were sold into slavery.
Its full title is Saints and Strangers - Being the Lives of the Pilgrim Fathers & Their Families, with Their Friends & Foes: & and Account of Their Posthumous Wanderings in Limbo, Their Final Resurrection & Rise to Glory, & the Strange Pilgrimages of Plymouth Rock.
Swiftsure Speedwell was built in 1577, under the name Swiftsure, as part of English preparations for war against Spain.
Cushman carried, in addition to Bradford's letter to Weston, a manuscript that would become an invaluable historic recording of the Pilgrims first thirteen months in America known today as Mourt's Relation.
The map uses perpendicular lines to mark the North and South boundaries of the Massachusetts Bay Colony per the 1629 charter.
Coles Hill became the first cemetery, on a prominence above the beach, and they allowed grass to overgrow the graves for fear that the Indians would discover how weakened the settlement had actually become.
The Deerfield Massacre had taken place in western Massachusetts on February 29, 1704, believed conducted by Indians provoked by the French.
Their Massachusetts cousins were named after the originals as South West England was the focal point for sailing and discovery at the time of America's discovery.
Later in life, he held a military command during King William's War and was involved in the Naval battle off St.
Their negotiations were delayed because of conflicts internal to the London Company, but ultimately a patent was secured in the name of John Wincob on June 9 (Old Style)/June 19 (New Style), 1619.
Squanto's involvement as an intermediary in negotiating the friendship treaty with Massasoit led to the joint feast between the Pilgrims and Wampanoag.
They also destroyed seven houses and killed several persons in present-day Scarborough (formerly Black Point).
This later group had been promised a separate living situation in Plymouth apart from the main settlement.
It was mid-September and his decision to run away proved wise, as evidenced by the fact that Giles Corey was crushed to death within a few days of his departure.
The dominion collapsed in 1689 after the Glorious Revolution propelled William and Mary to the English throne, and prompted the 1689 Boston revolt, in which Andros was arrested and returned to England.
Eventually, he sold the trading post to Smith to finance his trip to Great Britain to secure a charter for Rhode Island.
The Whitman massacre of 1847 triggered the Cayuse War, which led to fighting from the Cascade Range to the Rocky Mountains.
The annual growing season in southern Maine and Canada was not long enough to produce maize harvests.
Mount Hope (originally Montaup in Pokanoket language) is a small hill in Bristol, Rhode Island overlooking the part of Narragansett Bay known as Mount Hope Bay.
He boarded the Mayflower with his wife and two servants, one of whom was Elias Story, who died early along with 8-year-old Ellen More, who was in his care.
Harlow received permission to use the timbers after the fort was torn down at the end of King Philip's War in 1677.
State park attraction Today, Plymouth Rock is managed by the Department of Conservation and Recreation for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as part of Pilgrim Memorial State Park.
The campaign is most notable for Richard Waldron entering the war, the death of Chief Mog, and the attack on the Mi’kmaq that initiated their involvement in the war.
History John Eliot was an English colonist and Puritan minister who played an important role in the establishment of praying towns.
During the battle, his eye was wounded and he was hit by a musket ball which he carried in his body to his grave.
Bailey of North Scituate who was, at that time and for many years, chairman of the county commissioners.
Goffe was able to exchange letters with his wife in England through the mediation of Increase Mather, an influential Boston minister, and Daniel Gookin, a political leader in the Massachusetts government, is known to have overseen some of their financial affairs.
1643–1727), via whom he had numerous descendants to the present day including John Haynes Holmes (1879–1964), American churchman and pacifist, and Newland Howard Holmes (1891–1965), President of the Massachusetts Senate.
During the French and Indian Wars, Arrowsic was site of a succession of important and embattled colonial settlements.
After they emigrated to America in 1620, the congregation built a chapel in Plymouth which became a parish church of Massachusetts' state church, the Congregational Church.
Legacy In 1730, Samuel Wadsworth's son Benjamin (then president of Harvard College) dedicated a memorial stone over the mass grave where his father had been buried alongside his men.
However, unbeknownst to Curtis it was too late for negotiations, as the Nipmucs, under sachem Matoonas, had already attacked an English colonial settlement at Mendon and had decided to join Metacom's rebellion.
The statue is approximately 9 feet (2.7 meters) in height and has a square base measuring 32 inches (81 centimeters) on either side.
Legacy The Nashaway have left their imprint in many hydronyms and topographical features, such as the Sholan area of Leominster, the city and river known by "Nashua", and Mount Wachusett.
First used as a path by Wampanoag members, the road has been gradually upgraded over the years to become a main road.
Eulogy on King Philip is a printed text of a speech delivered by William Apess in 1836 to, among other things, commemorate Metacom, also known as King Phillip, 160 years after his death.
At this time the hill was transformed into a public park as part of the preparations for the tercentenary celebration.
An annual protest occurs at the statue on Thanksgiving Day in order to reclaim the space for Native Americans.
By 1616, the site had been renamed "New Plimoth" in Smith's A Description of New England after a suggestion by Prince Charles of England.
In New England In November 1621, Philip Delano arrived in Plymouth Colony as a single man on the ship Fortune.
They also raided present-day Durham, New Hampshire, burning houses, killing two settlers and taking others captive.
Because of intertribal and intratribal strife and conflict with colonists, some of the Native Americans considered the praying towns as refuges from warfare.
She received one share in the 1623 land division as "ffrance wife to Wit Palmer." He was a member of the 1626 Purchaser investment group as "Willm Palmer." In the 1627 division the family had 3 shares as "William, ffrances and Willm Pallmer Jnor." William Palmer died in 1637.
On the second day of the siege, early at dawn, Muttawmp had his men fill a village wagon with combustible material and direct it at the fortified house, hoping to set it on fire and in that way force the defenders out.
An unnamed sister of Awetamoes testified that a member of the group that attacked Howland by the name of Ohom told her that Molasses was also part of the group and took Howland from the water.
Over the years, people chipped away at the portion of the Rock that remained on the shoreline, removing hundreds of pounds of stone as souvenirs.
On August 13, the Wabanaki attacked Richard Hammond's fortified house in present-day Woolwich, killing fourteen, while two escaped.
At this early stage of the Colony's history the body of Freemen consisted of only the signatories to the Mayflower Compact.
When he determined upon an enterprise he pushed it forward to success with indomitable perseverance.
He succeeded newly elected Governor Josiah Winslow who held the position since it was established in 1658.
The early Plymouth General Court met within the fort on Burial Hill near Cole's Hill in downtown Plymouth.
In October, the Indians struck again with raids on the towns of Hatfield, Northampton, and Springfield, where almost the entire settlement was burned to the ground.
Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) The Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah) are headquartered in Aquinnah, Massachusetts.
On November 15, Captain Myles Standish led a party of 16 men on an exploratory mission, during which they disturbed an Indian grave and located a buried cache of Indian corn.
In October of that year, the Henry-Bonnard Bronze Company hosted an exhibition that featured the statue alongside several others that the foundry had recently cast, which included a statue of John Harvard and a statue of Samuel Francis Du Pont.
He later married Katherine White who was a prominent member of the Leiden English separatist church, though the exact date is unknown.
Later history Three of Mayflower's owners applied to the admiralty court for an appraisal of the ship on 4 May 1624, two years after Captain Jones's death in 1622.
Leach, Douglas Edward, Flintlock and Tomahawk: New England in King Philip's War; Parnassus Imprints, East Orleans, Massachusetts; 1954; ISBN 0-940160-55-2 Mandell, Daniel R.
The capotain is especially associated with Puritan costume in England in the years leading up to the English Civil War and during the years of the Commonwealth.
After several days of trying to get south to their planned destination of the Colony of Virginia, strong winter seas and a damaged ship forced them to return to the Cape Cod Hook where they anchored on November 11/21.
The striking children were offered one penny more an hour, the same pay as the nearby Bates Mill, in the neighboring town of Lewiston.
Tisquantum and Dermer talked of New England while in Newfoundland, and Tisquantum persuaded him that he could make his fortune there, and Dermer wrote Gorges and requested that Gorges send him a commission to act in New England.
(His son Edward Winslow made a significant contribution to the establishment of the loyalist colony of New Brunswick.) Winslow was the great-grandson of Edward Winslow, third Governor of Plymouth Colony.
Sony Wonder and Golden Books Family Entertainment also released the special on VHS in the Holiday Classics Collection line in 1998.
While in this village, they met an old woman, "no lesse then an hundred yeeres old", who wanted to see the colonists, and she told them of how her two sons were kidnapped by Hunt at the same time that Tisquantum was, and she had not seen them since.
The name of the town means either "where the road lies" or "where we gather" which may have been "alluding to a settlement of Christian Indians in the immediate vicinity." The village became an Indian praying town through the influence of John Eliot and Daniel Gookin.
Connecticut is largely shrunken to the left of the page, while present day Greater Boston, Martha's Vineyard, and Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations are shown in great detail, the hotspots of the conflict, with Cape Cod largely squished by the ratio of the map.
Authors It was written primarily by Edward Winslow, although William Bradford appears to have written most of the first section.
The goal of UAINE is to fight back against prejudice toward Native people, the issues of the Pilgrim mythology perpetuated in Plymouth, and the United States' assault on poor people.
On their arrival in Washington, they were greeted by President Lincoln, who shook Colonel Jones's hand and said, "Thank God, you have come" as theirs was the first armed and trained regiment to arrive in Washington.
The maternal grandson of Richard Warren, one of the passengers on the Mayflower, he was brought up according to colonial practices on the American frontier.
The early law of the colony was based roughly on English common law and Mosaic law, but the judicial structure resembled local manor and borough courts in England rather than the higher King's Court, which created the common law.
It is now owned by the town, with a trail that loops around and over the hill, with informational signs along the way.
Smiths were not to work for the Podunk, and none but licensed traders were to buy their corn, beaver, venison, or timber.
Many Narragansetts, based in southern Rhode Island, had fled to the Connecticut River valley after the Great Swamp Fight, a devastating assault on their central village by a combined English and Indian force in December 1675.
Once in town, they used torches to light houses on fire, including the garrisoned house of the village minister, Joseph Rowlandson.
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts also cited the continuity of the Nipmuc(k) with the historic tribe and commended tribal efforts to preserve their culture and traditions.
Both memorials incorrectly date the battle to April 18, likely an error of Hubbard's that was subsequently reprinted.
Their leader was Robert Cushman who, in 1620, had been the Leiden agent in London for the Mayflower and Speedwell.
The colonists attacked the fort, and five Native Americans who had surrendered were slaughtered by Maryland militia, which led to charges filed against both Washington and Allerton in the General Court at Williamsburg.
Both companies established settlements in 1607 - the London Company in Jamestown, and the Plymouth Company in Plymouth.
It involved the Wabanaki Confederacy raiding colonial American settlements along the New England Colonies/Acadia border in present-day Maine.
and Canada and $1,116,000 elsewhere; but, because of its high cost, ended up incurring a loss of $1,856,000.
History The Improved Order of Red Men fraternal organization commissioned the statue for the 1921 Pilgrim Tercentenary.
They were expected to give up own cultural lifeways, attire, religion, and anything else that the colonists considered "uncivilized." The Massachusetts General Court recognized the work of Eliot and helped to establish additional praying towns.
The Podunks briefly fought in the 1675–76 King Philip's War, in which most of their fighting men died.
It treated of the theological tenets in which the continually-multiplying adventurers were, and in which they were not agreed; of their ambition to be governed by biblical laws; and of their love of liberty in England.
See also National Register of Historic Places listings in Bristol County, Massachusetts References External links The Spirit of Anawan Rock
Death and burial Philip Delano died in Duxbury, Plymouth Colony between August 22, 1681, and March 4, 1681/2.
Her husband at the time, Petonanuit, sided with the English, and his followers became the Fall River Indian settlement.
By 1607, secret meetings were being held at Scrooby Manor and about 50 reform-minded individuals began to worship together, led by Richard Clyfton and the Rev.
Hartwell, Richardson & Driver designed the current Romanesque-style building, completed 1899, which replaced the 1831 wooden Gothic structure.
Like most Americans, they have mixed ancestry, with descent from the Narragansetts and other tribes of the New England area, as well as Europeans and Africans.
She was the daughter of Sir William Pole, who was knighted by James I in 1601, and Mary Peryam, the daughter of Sir William Peryam, Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer.
Despite this, he wrote a series of publications after returning to England in October 1609 about the colonial effort in North America, where he marginalized the Company's involvement.
Morse and Parish, in making the publication complained of, had not violated any right, which any judicatory, legal or equitable, was competent to enforce.
A man named Wechunckfum/Abram testified that Molasses had confessed to killing an Englishman in the area.
History Smith's Castle was built in 1678 to replace an earlier structure which the Narragansett Tribe destroyed during King Philip's War.
Death James Cudworth is said to have made his journey to England, and to have died, of smallpox, in London.
Molasses denied involvement with the killing, but admitted to buying Howland's coat for some ground nuts.
New England was then dealing with the aftereffects of the Antinomian Controversy, a religious dispute that resulted in the banishment of several people (notably Anne Hutchinson and John Wheelwright) from the neighboring Massachusetts Bay Colony, and occasioned significant debate in Plymouth as well.
Harvard rectified this in 2011 when, almost 350 years after Joel Hiacoomes was scheduled to graduate, Harvard University presented members of the Wampanoag community with a special posthumous degree for him alongside Tiffany Smalley, the first Wampanoag to graduate from Harvard College since Caleb.
About 8.8% of families and 11.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 15.7% of those under age 18 and 10.4% of those age 65 or over.
See also First period houses in Massachusetts (1620–1659) List of the oldest buildings in Massachusetts National Register of Historic Places listings in Plymouth County, Massachusetts References External links Sparrow House Website
In the latter capacity on 8 September 1642 Holmes hanged Thomas Granger, a teenager convicted of bestiality.
After hostilities with Spain ended, she was decommissioned in 1605 and renamed Speedwell, after the UK wildflower but also a play on words for her desired ability.
After his father Massasoit died, and then his older brother died, Metacomet, now King Philip, began making alliances with other tribes and war soon began.
At Woodbridge, Dunham was granted 213 acres (0.86 km2) of land by the newly appointed Governor of New Jersey.
History The Abenaki people called the island Arrowseag, meaning "place of obstruction," a reference to Upper Hell Gate on the Sasanoa River.
On September 14, 1835, Ralph Waldo Emerson married his second wife, Lidian Jackson Emerson in the parlor of The Edward Winslow House.
In March 1602, Bartholomew Gosnold set sail from Falmouth, Cornwall, in the ship, Concord, transporting a crew of eight, an exploration party of 12, and 20 colonists, with the intent of establishing a trading post in the New World.
As it was, she was obliged to spend much time among old state papers, ancient news prints, and old records in official places.
Cudworth was also chosen by the Court to lead a military expedition against the Dutch at New York (1673).
It was written by the men aboard the Mayflower, consisting of Separatist Puritans, adventurers, and tradesmen.
The annual official and historic celebrations (Patriotic Exercises) were established in 1785 by Rev.
When he was given a revised speech that was written by a person in public relations, James decided that he would not attend the celebration.
Although Church promised to spare Anawan's life upon his capture, he was ultimately executed by colonial officials.
Though his burial place is unknown, it is likely that Philip was buried in the Myles Standish Burial Ground in Duxbury, where many of Philip's descendants are buried.
Douglas Wilson carefully reassessed the available evidence, concluding in his 1987 paper on the matter that it might have taken place, and that the event, and Goffe's involvement in it, were covered up by Goffe's protectors.
The speech was delivered at the prestigious Odeon lecture hall on Federal Street in Boston, Massachusetts.
The town was located near what is now Thompson, Connecticut or Pomfret, Connecticut possibly near Thompson Hill Historic District.
In response to the posthumous ceremony in 2011, Cheryl Andrews-Maltais, the chairwoman of the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah), said: While at Harvard, Joel used John Amos Comenius's Janua Linguarum Reserata as a textbook.
This, combined with a lack of proper rations and unsanitary conditions for several months, attributed to what would be fatal for many, especially the majority of women and children.
But many Natives and their communities survived the war, especially on Cape Cod where the war had few direct effects.
Nine adult men on board did not sign the document; some had been hired as seamen only for one year and others may have been too ill to write.
In the 1630s and 1640s, Eliot worked with bilingual indigenous Algonquians including John Sassamon, an orphan of the Smallpox pandemic of 1633, and Cockenoe, an enslaved Montauk prisoner of the Pequot War, to translate several Christian works, eventually including the Bible, into Massachusett.
Although Samoset appears to have been important in establishing initial relations with the Pilgrims, Squanto was undoubtedly the main factor in the Pilgrims' survival.
The Pilgrims initially set sail in both ships, but Speedwell was found to be unseaworthy and both ships returned to England.
These included about 4,000 Narragansetts of western Rhode Island and eastern Connecticut, 2,400 Nipmucs of central and western Massachusetts, and 2,400 combined in the Massachusett and Pawtucket tribes living around Massachusetts Bay and extending northwest to Maine.
There is a substantial monument to "The Settlers of Green Harbor Marshfield", naming Resolved White and his wife Judith, as well as Resolved's brother, Peregrine, and his wife Sarah.
Organization A primary goal of the Society is to educate the public about the role of the Pilgrims in the early history of what would later become the United States of America.
Historical context Prior to King Philip's War, there is no record of New England and the Mi'kmaq being in conflict.
As Mason took back control of the town, Captain Wadsworth approached from the west with about seventy men, his numbers bolstered by Captain Samuel Brocklebank's garrison at Marlborough.
The Manamet and Scusset Rivers were widened early in the 20th century and connected to form the Cape Cod Canal, following a route very similar to the one used by Plymouth colonists to travel to the Aptucxet Trading Post.
These refugees would mostly evacuate to Schaghticoke, at the invitation of New York Governor Edmund Andros.
Return voyage to England The Fortune stayed in Plymouth for just about two weeks, and on 13 December 1621, she got underway for her return voyage to London.
One example is that she initially called the food she was given "filthy trash", but later found it „sweet and savory to [...] taste“.
In the wreck, the ship had lost her four small boats, very important for doing coastal trading business, as well as her salt, codfish, and all her supplies and trading goods.
Spies sent The Lancaster Raid, commonly represented as a surprise attack, was not entirely a surprise.
(See the French and Indian Wars, Father Rale's War and Father Le Loutre's War.) The conflict was over the border between New England and Acadia, which New France defined as the Kennebec River in southern Maine.
Eventually, the town's boundaries were extended to include Parker's Island, Stage Island and the Plantation of Nequasset (present-day Georgetown, Phippsburg, Bath, West Bath and Woolwich).
"Garrisons, or fortified houses, were built in almost all New England towns, and they were particularly common in the frontier towns of Maine and New Hampshire...
A member of the prominent Winslow family of the Plymouth Colony, he served as a civil and military official in a period marked by political transition.
It is on a small pier that is believed to have been built in the 18th or 19th century when some very old houses that were blocking construction of a road around the seaward side of the Royal Citadel leading to Plymouth Hoe were cleared together with the significant Watch House.
They came in contact with Sir Edwin Sandys, an acquaintance of church elder William Brewster and a leading member of the Virginia Company.
In subsequent editions, these six short columns were combined into three long columns on a single page in two different ways, producing two different orders in unnumbered lists of signers.
References Citations Sources External links Rachel Dyer original 1828 edition available at Google Books Rachel Dyer: A North American story at Project Gutenberg Rachel Dyer original 1828 edition available at Internet Archive
He was an old man at the time, and a chief captain of Metacomet, who had been captured and killed by the colonists two weeks earlier.
History Congregation The congregation was formed in the English village of Scrooby, Nottinghamshire, around 1607 by the Pilgrim Fathers, a group of exiled dissenting Puritans in the Dutch Republic.
External links Geographic data related to Plymouth County, Massachusetts at OpenStreetMap Plymouth County Commissioners US Census Bureau map of cities, towns, Native American reservations, and census-designated places Plymouth Registry of Deeds Plymouth County Sheriff's Office Wall & Gray.
Moses Fletcher - A Leiden Separatist who was a smith by occupation and listed Leiden as his place of residence at the time of emigration.
The nine men were buried by English colonists who found the corpses and created a pile of stones to memorialize the men.
This would have made the newly acquired land officially recognized as part of the Narragansett Indian reservation, taking it out from under Rhode Island's legal authority.
Technically not a memorial, as it was used for surveying purposes, the iron bolt was removed during the Cabot Manufacturing Company expansion of 1891.
First Parish Church in Plymouth is a historic Unitarian Universalist church at the base of Burial Hill on the town square off Leyden Street in Plymouth, Massachusetts.
A full two and one-half months after the time when annual operations were normally resumed, management still publicly claimed that the layoff was merely seasonal.
Encountering the settlers there, who were in need of provisions, they brought some back to the Maine encampment to give them some supplies.
The cemetery, now owned and maintained by the town, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2018.
Some of these include the idea that the women believed that if the prisoners were taken to Boston, they "would have been set at liberty." This argument seems almost sympathetic to the women due to the fact that they were only attempting to protect their families.
At that time, children and young men were routinely rounded up from the streets of London or taken from poor families receiving church relief to be used as laborers in the colonies.
See also Plymouth Colony List of passengers on the Mayflower References Notes External links Plymouth Adventure at IMDb Plymouth Adventure at the TCM Movie Database (archived version) Plymouth Adventure at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
He seemed to be a long-time member of the Leiden congregation and therefore was probably one of the Separatists.
By the second month out, the ship was being buffeted by strong westerly gales, causing the ship's timbers to be badly shaken with caulking failing to keep out sea water, and with passengers, even in their berths, lying wet and ill.
The event that sparked formal hostilities was the capture of a boat and the murder of Captain John Oldham in 1636, an event blamed on allies of the Pequots.
In 1607/1608 the congregation emigrated to the Netherlands in search of the freedom to worship without conforming to the Church of England.
The tale begins with the pilgrim preachers deciding to move to America and getting aboard the Mayflower.
In his original 1669 edition, the names were placed on two successive pages forming six short columns, three per page.
In A Summary History of New-England, Adams presented a narrative more comprehensive than any previously written.
By 1667 John Eliot was involved with the village and attempted to mediate a misunderstanding regarding a tribute between the Quantisset Nipmucs and the Narragansett saunkskwa Quaiapin.
The building was demolished later in the 18th century and the site abandoned, but its location remained well known, and was documented in local histories.
The house was burned in retaliation for the Great Swamp Fight, and the present structure was built in its place, originally as a saltbox house, and later modified into its current form.
Such was the case when Thomas Hunt kidnapped several Wampanoag in 1614 in order to sell them later in Spain.
As in the August 1675 attack, Monoco, known as "One-Eyed John" by the English, as well as Sagamore Sam, planned and led the raid.
Afterward As an immediate response, some merchants from Salem, to whom most of the vessels belonged, armed a large ketch, transforming it into a warship.
The booklet was summarized by other publications without the now-familiar Thanksgiving story, but the original booklet appeared to be lost or forgotten by the eighteenth century.
The attacking forces had scouted the Narragansett position at the western edge of the swamp, and organized an attack over and around the hill to the west.
They killed and captured colonists and burned many farms, blunting the tide of colonial American expansion.
With the exception of 1715, Winslow served as a member of the council until 1736, for a time as its president.
But the story centers more on the Dyer sisters' martyrdom, which is presented by Neal as a female tradition of quiet dissent to patriarchal legalism.
Old Sandwich Golf Club, which is one of the top 100 golf courses in America, is named after Old Sandwich Road.
Other Pilgrims, such as George Soule (presumably the brother of the printer Johannes Sol), were also believed to have been involved in the printing of the book, and the controversy caused them to flee on the Mayflower and disguise their origins.
Income breakdown by town The ranking of unincorporated communities that are included on the list are reflective if the census designated locations and villages were included as cities or towns.
In fall 1621, the Fortune was the second English ship destined for Plymouth Colony in the New World, one year after the voyage of the Pilgrim ship Mayflower.
In 1677, residents of Marblehead were notified that a ship was taken, and they assumed that everyone on the ship was killed; however, when the ship later returned safely, Marblehead citizens discovered that the fishermen had taken two Natives as captives.
After thirteen days they were freed, with the manuscript in Cushman's possession but without its cargo of valuable beaver skins.
It also houses high-security male pre-trial prisoners, high-security female prisoners, and pre-trial female prisoners.
Plymouth did not get its wish for a formal charter; instead, a new charter was issued combining Plymouth Colony, Massachusetts Bay Colony, and other territories including Maine.
Quinnatisset (also spelled Quantisset, Quinnetusset, Quanatusset, Quantiske, Quantisset, Quatiske, or Quattissick) was a Nipmuc village in Connecticut which became a praying town through the influence of John Eliot and Daniel Gookin.
Longfellow claimed the story was rooted in family tradition, yet there is a complete absence of historical evidence to support its major elements.
They also protest the use of racist terms used as team names and mascots in sports teams throughout the country.
But his son Josiah, who became the colony's military commander about 1659, did not have a good relations with the Indians, and had a different view of them than his father did.
Member of the 1626 Purchaser investment group as "Cutbert Cutbertson." In the 1627 'Division of Cattle' he is listed as "Godber Godberson" and along with his wife and son are in Isaac Allerton's group #2 along with the six Allertons, two Priests, Edward Bumpasse & John Crackstone.
Legacy In the time that Joel attended Harvard, two weeks of oral exams in Greek and Latin were a requirement for graduation, in addition to attending the commencement ceremony.
Wilson, American military officer and president of the Military Women's Memorial George Warren (died 1933), last surviving founding member Museum In 1941 the Society purchased the Edward Winslow House in Plymouth, Massachusetts.
While all of the other sons of Richard Singletary used the Singletary surname, Jonathan adopted the name of Dunham, and all of his children retained it.
Land sales continued unabated, much of it used to pay for legal fees, personal expenses, and improvements to the reserve lands.
Prence was one of eight leaders of the colony (known collectively as the "Undertakers") who agreed to assume all of the colony's debts to the merchants, in exchange for which the other colonists granted them a monopoly on the local fur trade.
A capotain, capatain, copotain, copintank or steeple hat is a tall-crowned, narrow-brimmed, slightly conical "sugarloaf" hat, usually black, worn by men and women from the 1590s into the mid-seventeenth century in England and northwestern Europe.
Holmes Reservation, a conservation parcel in Plymouth, was donated to the city by a descendant, Francis C.
In barrel aging, the natural properties of the wood allow for gentle aeration of the wine to occur over a prolonged period.
Riots in the city of Narbonne prompted Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau to send the French army to the city.
Galets roulés are components of the terrain, or terroir, and a distinguishing feature of many of the vineyards in the Côtes du Rhône AOC and more specifically Châteauneuf-du-Pape AOC and other top wine-producing areas in the regions such as Gigondas AOC and Vacqueyras AOC.
The Marriage Feast At Cana is a painting that was formerly attributed to the Early Netherlandish master Hieronymus Bosch.
The process is almost always used in conjunction with red wine production since some of the flavor compounds produced by volatile phenols tend to form undesirable flavors with white wine grape varieties.
Reference in Christian writings In the Catechism of the Catholic Church, the Eucharist is called the wedding feast of the Lamb "where he gives his body and blood at the request of the Church, his Bride." See also Ancient Israelite cuisine Jewish cuisine Kashrut == References ==
In the rear of the room garnishing the wall in Tintoretto's version are elaborately decorated Ionic Columns reminiscent of ancient Greek architecture.
Pospíšilová has developed 24 new varieties of grape that are grown in Slovakia, including Breslava, Děvín, Diamant, Dunaj, Helios, Hetera, Hron, Mars, Nitranka, Rimava, Rosa, Rubanka, Rudava, Torysa, and Váh.
It took her six years of research and planning to prepare the right procedure and the correct concoction.
Bundschu was part of the family that owns and operates the Gundlach Bundschu winery, located in Sonoma, California.
He also served as chairman of the Rishon Lezion branch of the Association of colonies, branch chairman of the Association of Rishon Lezion, member of the Maccabi Eretz Israel, and was a member of an organization headquarters defense.
Starting in 1953, he directed the Vineyard Association, the controlling shareholder in Carmel Winery, and held this position for about thirty years.
In 1963 he was instrumental in establishing the Winemaking National Guild of Judges (now National Guild of Wine and Beer Judges) and was one of its early chairmen.
From 2007 to 2019 he was a member of the Schaan municipal council as a member of the Patriotic Union.
For example, when one adds equal amounts of salt and sugar to equal amounts of water, the degrees Brix of the salt solution Rises faster than the sugar solution, because it is denser.
The fact of our Lord taking part in the marriage-feast teaches us that it is lawful and pleasing to God that we should take part in innocent recreations and harmless pleasures, rejoicing with those who rejoice.
The major symbol of ancient Greek art in Damaskinos's works was the consistent use of ancient Greek Cretan meander patterns.
Wedding at Cana also known as Wedding Feast at Cana and Le Nozze di Cana is an oil painting by Michael Damaskinos.
Life Jose Galante studied oenology at the Facultad Tecnologica de Enologia e Industrias Frutihorticolas "Don Bosco" in Rodeo del Medio, Maipu, Mendoza.
Winemaking Galante, along with Paul Hobbs, modernized wine making in Argentina, transforming Argentine wine and bringing quality Argentine wine, most notably malbec, to the U.S.
Jesus was doing in His Father's house, it may be, what was then being done in every house in Jerusalem.
A typical Campden tablet contains 0.44 g of sodium metabisulfite, plus filler; eight of these are equivalent to one-half level teaspoon (2.5 mL) of sodium metabisulfite.
After the day's meal is over, Birkat Hamazon and Sheva Brachot are recited, and the newlyweds dance.
Throughout the fermentation process, carbon dioxide is released as a byproduct of the conversion of sugar into alcohol.
In winemaking The amount of FAN that winemakers will see in their grape depends on a number of components including grape variety, rootstock, vineyard soils and viticultural practices (such as the use of fertilizers and canopy management) as well as the climate conditions of particular vintages.
Military service In 1891, Fiaschi joined the New South Wales Lancers, a reserve colonial unit, as an honorary surgeon captain.
In response to violent demonstrations by protesters in 1907, the French government began regulating the amount of sugar that can be added to wine.
This Andalusian tradition is comparable in character to France's Beaujolais Nouveau: seasonal, unfiltered, and consumed within the same year of production.
And a son – Henri Gineste de Saurs – opened his group of restaurants outside Paris, under the name L'Entrecôte, in Toulouse (in 1962), Bordeaux (in 1966), Nantes (in 1980), Montpellier (in 1990), Lyon (in 1999) and Barcelona (in 2019).
Thomas Henry Fiaschi (Italian: Tommaso Enrico Fiaschi; 31 May 1853 – 17 April 1927) was an Italian-Australian surgeon.
It is celebrated as a professional holiday by wine growers, falconers, gardeners, barrel-makers and innkeepers.
From 1989 to 2021 he was the group leader and department head at the special education centre in Schaan.
Winemaking Torulaspora delbrueckii has been associated with winemaking for decades and isolated either from grape, must or wine.
Jansje and her husband were the ones who took care of the writers on their return to Holland after nine years of exile in France, a consequence of their patriotic sympathies during the period of conflict between the Dutch Patriots and Orangists.
At the time it showed a portrait and only when the overpainting was removed did the tempera painting of the wedding come to light.
He was later appointed chairman of the board of medical studies at 1909 and honorary consulting surgeon in 1911.
It is produced by concentrating the teinturier grape Rubired, a cross between Alicante Ganzin and Tinta Cão, has 68% sugar and sells for approximately $135 a gallon.
In wine, it is often used to replace potassium sorbate, as it inactivates wine spoilage yeasts such as Brettanomyces.
French oak, on the other hand, generates silky and transparent tannins, which transmit a sensation of light sweetness combined with fruity flavors that persist in the mouth.
The most common genera of wild yeasts found in winemaking include Candida, Klöckera/Hanseniaspora, Metschnikowiaceae, Pichia and Zygosaccharomyces.
Awards 2023: Award of the Mayor of Pezinok for an active life connected with cultural events in Pezinok and in the field of winemaking References == External links ==
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
Bordeaux tries to save itself: The region's growers take drastic steps to cut their glut and pump up sales.
The compound is produced from the degradation of the amino acid arginine which is present in both grape must and released in the wine through the autolysis of dead yeast cells.
After a minimum maturation period of 60 days, a group of expert technicians will test the resulting product analytically as well as organoleptically (via taste, aroma, the palette and other senses).
Early life Fiaschi was born on 31 May 1853 in Florence, Italy, then within the Grand Duchy of Tuscany.
Quercetin is removed from red wines via the finings gelatin, casein, and PVPP to reduce astringent flavors.
With very acidic grapes like Sangiovese this process will temper some of the harshness and volatility in the wine.
The solid portion of the must is called pomace and typically makes up 7–23% of the total weight of the must.
These phenomena may be prevented by sterile filtration, by the addition of relatively large quantities of sulfur dioxide and sometimes sorbic acid, by mixing in alcoholic spirit to give a fortified wine of sufficient strength to kill all yeast and bacteria, or by pasteurization.
In Jewish eschatology, the messiah will hold a seudat nissuin with the righteous of every nation, called a Seudat Chiyat HaMatim, and they will feast on the cooked flesh of the Leviathan.
Christian Moueix (French: [mu.ɛks]; born 1946) is a French winemaker and the president of the négociant house Établissements Jean-Pierre Moueix in Libourne, overseeing production in several estates in Saint-Émilion and Pomerol including Château La Fleur-Pétrus and Château Trotanoy.
The name is derived from John 2:1–12, the Wedding at Cana in Galilee, where Jesus performed the miracle of turning water into wine.
During the process of toasting, the furanic aldehydes in the wood reach a higher level of concentration.
The typical wine grape will have anywhere from 22 to 1242 mg of nitrogen/liter derived from free amino acids.
British hothouse In September 2006, the Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad as well as other national and international media made mention of a more than two hundred years old African seed granule, which had been kept all that time in British archive depositories, currently at The National Archives.
If the layer of lees begins to exceed 4 inches (10 centimeters), the enzymes released from the process of the yeast digesting themselves creates reducing conditions and promotes the development of hydrogen sulfide and mercaptan odors.
In the case of great Chardonnay, such as Montrachet, this adds a toasty, nutty "hazelnut" quality and additional depth and complexity.
In a wine intended to be still this is regarded as a serious fault; it can even cause the bottle to explode.
They have a daughter and a son: Camille Sereys de Rothschild (born 1961) Philippe Sereys de Rothschild (born 1963) Jean-Pierre de Beaumarchais (born 1944), a bibliographer and scholar, who is a relative of 18th-century playwright Pierre Beaumarchais.
As with any other instruments, MIR and FT-IR instruments can be calibrated against pure sucrose solutions and thus report in °Bx, but there are other possibilities with these technologies, as they have the potential to distinguish between sugars and interfering substances.
He was born in 1896 in Montfaucon, Lot, France, into an ancient aristocratic family, the son of Bernard de Chaunac-Lanzac and Marguerite Bibonnet.
6 The closing chorale, "Erhalt mein Herz im Glauben rein" (If my heart remains pure in faith), is a four-part setting.
The engraved tumbler survives to this day having become a treasured part of Sir Walter Scott's collections at Abbotsford House.
He arrived in Virginia on 10 June 1610, which enabled him to help with colonists that had survived the Starving Time of that prior winter.
Additionally, many of today's modern presses are computerized, which allows the operator to control exactly how much pressure is being applied to the grape skins and for how many cycles.
In 1983, Johnston moved a resolution to declare Ontario a nuclear weapons-free zone but it was defeated, a decision that moved him to tears.
The pressure must be controlled, especially with grapes, in order to avoid crushing the seeds and releasing a great deal of undesirable tannins into the wine.
After studying literature, she and her father, Gao Lin, moved to Russia in the late 1980s, where she studied economic agriculture at Leningrad State University.
See also Clarification and stabilization of wine Wine rack References Further reading Blouin, Jacques; Peynaud, Émile (13 June 2012).
External links Wine war: Savvy New World marketers are devastating the French wine industry Delpeuch urges rapid and radical reform CIVB President resigns in despair
Some winemakers use the decreasing sugar level (such as brix measurement) scale and press once the wine has reached complete dryness.
He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order and was promoted to lieutenant-colonel on his return.
At Salentein, Galante continues to focus on the international reputation of malbec, especially that of wines made from high altitude fruit.
This decision coincided with the Chinese government's efforts to establish a wine region in Ningxia's Helan Mountains, with Gao helping in the family business, which produced Ningxia wine.
They may also bind with the tannins in the wine to reduce the perception of bitterness or astringency in the wine.
While at Moët & Chandon, she spent time creating red wines used in producing rosé sparkling wines, including Dom Perignon Rosé.
Also, winemakers have been using technological advances, such as reverse osmosis to remove water from the unfermented grape juice, thereby increasing its sugar concentration, but decreasing the volume of wine produced.
He crusaded for improved benefits to the poor and disabled by attempting to live for a month on a "welfare diet" in 1982, limiting his food budget to that of the average person on welfare.
Special experience Harvest experience tours, also known as "harvest internships" or "crush camps," are tours or programs that allow visitors to experience the winemaking process firsthand by participating in the grape harvesting and crushing process.
Grape-treading or grape-stomping is part of the method of maceration used in traditional wine-making.
The novel The Secret of Santa Vittoria and the film based on it, taking place in a wine-producing Italian town during WWII, include a grape treading scene which has a major role in the battle of wits between the townspeople and their German occupiers.
She was made an Officier of the Légion d'Honneur in 2007, and in 2013 was given a lifetime achievement award by the Institute of Masters of Wine.
While Vitis vinifera varieties have ultimately supplanted the majority of French hybrid plantings in eastern North America, hundreds of hectares remain in production, some even used to produce "cult wines" from old vine plantings.
It claims that the quality of wine can be measured chemically, and a score assessed, much like a wine critic.
During this marriage, he owned the Spier estate in Stellenbosch, which he is also said to have named after his own homeland in Europe.
Trifon himself is traditionally considered to be their patron saint, and in old church iconography, as the patron saint of winemakers, the saint is sometimes depicted with a scythe (a type of sickle) in his hand.
It is a common misconception that Campden tablets can be used to halt the ferment process in wine before all the available sugars are converted by the yeast, hence controlling the amount of residual sweetness in the final product.
Benefits Exposure to oxygen during production may improve wine, but the exposure must be limited: too much oxygen can lead to oxidation while too little can lead to reduction, either one leading to its associated wine faults.
The musicologist Julian Mincham writes that the "hybrid recitative provides an excellent example of Bach's experiments of investing long texts with sustained musical interest".
This car was not grey but after that one, other expensive cars followed, and they were all in her shade of grey.
The reason why co-fermentation is not more widely practiced is that it "locks in" a certain blend already at the start of the fermentation, which gives the winemaker less possibility to adjust the blend after fermentation.
The Israeli army claimed it was a mistake, stating that Hezbollah elements were located near the camp.
These steps will each have their own subtle or dramatic effect on the resulting flavors and quality of the wine.
Reference in the Bible Old Testament In Tobit 7:14, after marrying, Tobiah and Sarah "began to eat and drink" with their parents.
Winemaking considerations During fermentation, there are several factors that winemakers take into consideration, with the most influential to ethanol production being sugar content in the must, the yeast strain used, and the fermentation temperature.
Carbonic maceration is a winemaking technique, often associated with the French wine region of Beaujolais, in which whole grapes are fermented in a carbon dioxide rich environment before crushing.
Developed in 1991 by Patrick DuCournau, working with the exceptionally tannic grape Tannat in Madiran, the process gained usage in modern winemaking following the 1996 authorization by the European Commission.
Gao's first vintage as chief winemaker was praised by Chinese and international winemakers, and two of her red wines are among the best known produced in China.
She acted under the stage name Philippine Pascal (imprinting on her paternal grandfather Henri de Rothschild who also used the last name Pascal to write plays).
The two Gestapo officers fought over taking Philippine along with her mother, but one officer argued that he had a daughter the same age back home, so they left her alone.
Executed in gold on the portefeuille is the name and place of residence of its owner, the chief merchant in the service of the Asian Council – the successor of the Dutch East India Company – Jan Bekker Teerlink.
The beefsteak used was the cut of sirloin known in French as contre-filet or entrecôte, and accordingly the restaurant was named Le Relais de Venise – L'Entrecôte.
If fermentation of the main batch starts to slow or appears to be nearing stuck fermentation, the half dried grapes are added to the must which then gives the yeast cells a new source of sugar to enliven the batch.
In the early 19th century, after the Napoleonic Wars (1803–1815), the repatriation of looted works of art was integral to the post–Napoleonic conciliation treaties of France with Europe.
At the same time exports are falling in the face of growing competition from excellent wines sold at lower prices.
Alsace wines were the first to be described as Sélection de Grains Nobles, with the legal definition introduced in 1984, but the term is also seen in some other wine regions France, such as Loire.
In extreme cases such as Beaujolais nouveau, the period between picking and bottling can be less than six weeks.
From there, the must can be fermented dry or stopped with the wine having a higher level of residual sugar.
See also List of Bohemian Club members References External links Gundlach Bundschu Winery Family And History
His father was a mathematics professor at the University of Florence, while his mother was an Englishwoman who had worked as a tutor to members of the Corsini family.
Torulaspora delbrueckii colonizes several natural environments, ranging from soils, to plants, fruits and insects.
Before the sun had set the huge building was destroyed by the advancing inferno." Bundschu moved the winery operations from San Francisco to its vineyards in Sonoma.
The spring of 'Ain Kanah ("Kanah Spring") near the village of Reineh, immediately northeast of Nazareth, has been proposed as an equally likely site by Conder in 1878, but has little going for it and has been rejected in more recent scholarship as a candidate.
Berry also produced the Amateur Winemaker magazine and published First Steps in Winemaking, 130 New Winemaking recipes, and Home Brewed Beers and Stouts.
During this time Bohun was active with the Virginia Company, as he was listed as a sharecropper in their third charter and was approved for two grants for Virginia land.
The Book of Joshua mentions one city (19:28) and one brook (16:8; 17:9) named Kanah (Cana) – neither is likely to be the Cana of Galilee.
Acetic acid bacteria (AAB) are a group of Gram-negative bacteria that oxidize sugars or ethanol and produce acetic acid during fermentation.
In the second half of the 1990s, the Holy Land began an extensive renovation of the church, completed in 1999.
However, as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the primary yeast for both beer and wine, can not utilize proline in the anaerobic conditions of ethanol fermentation it is not included in FAN (and subsequently YAN) calculations.
Cazes began low key efforts to market his product to the People's Republic of China as early as 1990.
He was captured in 1915 but escaped, and was later awarded the Croix de Guerre and the Medaille des Evades.
After politics Following his departure from politics, Johnston returned to academia serving as chair of the Ontario Council of Regents for the Ontario Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology from 1991 to 1995.
After that, other Koshu wines such as those made by Grace Winery in Katsunuma, Yamanashi also began to be exported.
When Philippine de Rothschild was ten years old, she witnessed the Gestapo arrest her mother, who later died at Ravensbrück concentration camp, the only known member of the Rothschild family to die during The Holocaust.
Jan Bekker Teerlink (baptized 17 August 1759 – 4 December 1832) was a Dutch plant and seed collector and winemaker.
References External links Meet the Winemaker - Emma Gao - Silver Heights Winery, China Uncorked: Emma Gao of Silver Heights
However, individual states may still create their own regulations; California, for example, prohibits chaptalization, although California winemakers may add grape concentrate.
There are several potential causes of a stuck fermentation; the most common are an excessively high temperature killing off the yeast, or a must deficient in the nitrogen food source needed for the yeast to thrive.
Industry Industrial buildings were found on the outskirts of the town, including facilities for breeding doves, olive presses, fabric dying, and glass making.
It was de Chaunac, along with John Paroshy who first tested the use of Vidal blanc for the production of ice wine.
Gao has spoken out about how the climate crisis is affecting wine production, in particular causing damage to the vines due to increasingly harsh winters.
Measurement units In France and many other countries, the grape must density is often recalculated to show potential alcohol, the percent alcohol content that would be the result if the must were fermented to a completely dry wine.
Together with ammonia, FAN makes up the measurement of yeast assimilable nitrogen that can be measured prior to the start of fermentation.
Based on the descriptions of effects to wines by winemakers it is likely produced by a series of processes such as vacuum distillation, fractional distillation, and solvent extraction.
Typically, the wine is heated to 185 °F (85 °C) for a minute, then cooled to 122 °F (50 °C), at which temperature it remains for up to three days, killing all yeast and bacteria.
It can be used in various non-alcoholic as well as alcoholic drinks like wine, cider, beer-mix beverages or hard seltzers.
The solera process has been used since the 17th century to produce sour ales in Sweden, where it is known as hundraårig öl ('hundred-year beer').
With a viticulture history dating to the 17th century, Atajate once had over 30 active lagares (traditional pressing facilities) before phylloxera devastated the region in the 1870s — the first regional outbreak in Málaga province.
Their assets in Bordeaux included Château Pichon Longueville Baron, Château Suduiraut, Cantenac Brown, and Petit Village chateaux.
Co-fermentation is the practice in winemaking of fermenting two or more fruits at the same time when producing a wine.
These courses can have multiple different forms ranging from weekend retreats to getting matched with a sponsor couple for meetings.
When the base wine (or cuvee) has been produced from single grape varietals or a blend, the wine is bottled with a mixture of yeast and fresh sugar known as the "liqueur de tirage".
The first Rolls-Royce that she bought was a 1920 Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost and she appeared with it in July 1922 in "Australian Motor Owner" magazine.
The process was widely used in the Chianti zones until the advent of temperature controlled fermentation tanks.
Galets roulés also serve to protect the vine and minimize soil erosion during the periods of strong winds that are known in the area as mistral.
Yeast are unable to reproduce in an environment with 16-18% ABV; in an environment with multiple stressors the fermentation could get stuck even before the alcohol level reaches that point.
He said, "Less than an hour after the quake a crew at their great cellar on Bryant Street was able to fill two wagons with books, business papers and other items.
Appointed by Pope Pius VII, the Neoclassical sculptor Antonio Canova negotiated the Treaty of Tolentino (1797) for the French repatriation of Italian works of art that Napoleon had plundered from the Papal States.
One of the earliest modern attempts to regulate private production was the Inland Revenue Act 1880 (43 & 44 Vict.
As a surgeon he did "pioneering work" in exophthalmic goitre (Graves disease), hydatid disease, and orthopedic surgery.
Australia now exports more wine to Great Britain than does France and the latter's share of the U.S.
Shortly after, her father, also a winemaker, spent several weeks in France and upon his return, he encouraged his daughter to pursue the same craft.
Grape production is located in the second central, very warm and southern hot regions of Odesa region.
Dimethyl dicarbonate (DMDC) is a colorless liquid with a pungent odor at high concentration at room temperature.
New World consumers tend to prefer buying wine by grape variety and also from brand name producers rather than from unknown chateaux.
Solera means "on the ground" in Spanish, and refers to the lower level of the set of barrels or other containers used in the process.
In 1937 she joined the Australian Red Cross Society and from 1941 to 1947 she presided over the arrangements for Red Cross Day and during that time her committee raised two million pounds.
In the following year, she gave a collection valued at £200,000 to the National Gallery of South Australia.
She sourced the organic fruit from her orchard and the Kiwi Growers Cooperative Society in Arunachal Pradesh.
Prior to his retirement in 1967, Berry worked as a newspaper editor, most notably for the Andover Advertiser.
The result is sold under the name of the négociant, not the name of the original grape or wine producer.
In this way the carbon dioxide content is created which, after opening the bottle, produces the bubbles.
Fiaschi was made a knight of the Order of Saints Maurice and Lazarus and officer of the Order of the Crown of Italy for his services in the war.
cerevisiae in mixed cultures) for certain applications, particularly to reduce volatile acidity in high-sugar fermentations like in Sauternes wines.
Cyril J J Berry (17 April 1918 – 4 November 2002) was a writer known for his book First Steps in Winemaking, which has sold more than three million copies worldwide.
When Lewis left politics, Johnston ran to succeed him as the NDP Member of Provincial Parliament (MPP) for Scarborough West, winning election to the Legislative Assembly of Ontario in a 1979 by-election.
This remnant diminishes to a tiny level, but there can be significant traces of product much older than the average, depending on the transfer fraction.
The Marriage at Cana is a panel painting in oils by Early Netherlandish painter Gerard David, dated to 1500-1510.
With rose, the skins may be kept in contact for a shorter period to give color to the wine, in that case the must may be pressed as well.
References Further reading Ecological occurrence of Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus and nitrogen-fixing Acetobacteraceae members: their possible role in plant growth promotion 2008.
According to Oz Clarke, "traditionally the wine is 'racked' or drawn from barrel or tank to another empty one on a number of occasions (called soutirage).
Bacon however took a keen interest in the poet and in 1798 purchased the bed that Burns was born in from Gilbert Burns at nearby Dinning Farm.
Winemakers began to use Enologix metrics to improve company performance without saying so to anyone.
For example, in 2008 the Japanese government required that only five percent of the grapes in a wine be from Japan to qualify to be labelled as a Japanese wine., but EU regulations require that wines that are a blend of grapes from different countries be identified as such.
The De Chaunac (Seibel 9549) grape variety, still grown in some northeastern wine regions, was named after Adhémar de Chaunac.
Biography Singer was born in the United States and came to Japan at age 12 with his parents, who were in the U.S.
Apart from proper, his documents at National Archives show us Bekker Teerlink also as an agreeable person, a man who played the violin aboard his ship.
The assortment of food, silverware, and wine jugs is common to Damaskinos's Last Supper and the current Wedding at Cana.
Oak types and sources The species of oak typically used for American oak production is the Quercus alba which is a white oak species that is characterized by its relatively fast growth, wider grains and lower wood tannins.
The Dutch offered him the opportunity to settle in the Huguenot refugee community of South Africa, winemakers on whom Dutch merchants relied to supply their customers with wine in the Indian Ocean.
She became the chair of the board taking valuable advice from her husband's secretary who understood the business.
Grape pulp contains a lot of pectins that create colloid coagulation with these solids that will make the wine difficult to stabilize.
Many would regard the story of the wedding at Cana as of theological rather than historical or topographical significance; it is the first of the seven miraculous "signs" by which Jesus's divine status is attested, and around which the gospel is structured.
After two years working in Italy and London, Fiaschi returned to Australia in 1879 and established a medical practice in Windsor, New South Wales.
Others, such as John Williams, winemaker for Frog's Leap Winery, has stated that the need for its use is evidence of poor viticulture and/or winemaking.
Vidal is now the most common ice-wine grape in Ontario, producing ice wines which are a successful export product and routinely win international competitions.
Their new home housed expensive paintings including examples by Millais, Gainsborough, George Romney J.
According to journal reports, Mega Purple is used by almost every low- to moderate-value wine producer (below US$20 per 750 ml bottle) to help standardize the bottled product ensuring a more uniform product.
In 1987 he introduced a private members bill on the same issue and it was passed with support of all three parties.
Volume 125, Issue 1, Pages 2–14 Biotechnological applications of acetic acid bacteria, 2008, Critical Reviews in Biotechnology, Volume 28, Issue 2, 101-124 Evaluation of viability and growth of Acetobacter senegalensis under different stress conditions, 2013 Int.
He left Holland in March 1688 on board of the Berg China, a ship of the Dutch East India Company, to reach the Table Mountain on 4 August 1688, near which he founded the village of Provence, after a three-and-a-half-month voyage.
In the early 1970s he met Ján Štrba on a train, who was carrying a large reel-to-reel tape recorder, and they became friends.
Watson, a local man, records in 1901 that the poem concerned was "The Henpecked Husband." References Notes Further reading External links Video footage of Brownill Inn and its history Video footage of the 'Soldier's Return' site at Millmannoch You're Welcome, Willie Stewart performed by Driftwood.
Wine modeling, the task of building an abstract representation (a model) of wine price, volume and tasting scores had eluded enologists since the 1855 Classification of Bordeaux.
seems to hint at some secret promise of undiscovered pleasure, a pleasure to be shared"), a drawing that led 300 wine producers to sign a petition against the distribution of the bottle.
While Jesus stayed in Jerusalem for the Passover feast, he performed various unrecorded signs (Greek: σημεια, sēmeia) or miracles, and many "believed in His name".
Her wine holdings included Château Mouton Rothschild, Château d'Armailhac, Château Clerc Milon, Domaine de Lambert, Baron Arques, Baron Philippe de Rothschild, Mouton Cadet, Opus One and Viña Almaviva (in Chile).
She studied and was trained as an agricultural engineer at NERIST (North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and Technology) in Nirjuli, Arunachal Pradesh.
Sélection de Grains Nobles (SGN) is French for "selection of noble berries" and refers to wines made from grapes affected by noble rot.
According to Moore, a moral actor cannot survey the 'goodness' inherent in the various parts of a situation, assign a value to each of them, and then generate a sum in order to get an idea of its total value.
Additionally, he contributed to Arabic philology as well as lexicography, recording vocabulary and expressions of the Bedouin tribes which had not previously been recorded.
“Quaestiones in Aristotelis libros ethicorum”, edited by Iacopo Costa, in: “Le questiones di Radulfo Brito sull’Etica Nicomachea” Introduction (in Italian) and critical text.
This education allowed him to hold several government offices at the prefecture level, and ultimately rise to a post in the royal library.
The text, state Howard and Raja, describes compound word formation based on syntactic and semantic considerations, such as in sutra 2.1.1.
He also wrote letters, a didactic poem (sometimes classed as the last ensenhamen), a grammar, and some treatises on computation (i.e.
This helped to advance understanding of how the fields of internal languages are demarcated and he assisted the development of the empirical study of linguistics.
He was called "the most learned of the Romans" by Quintilian, and also recognized by Plutarch as "a man deeply read in Roman history".
Latin essays were very popular in the Middle Ages, but Dante made some innovations in his work: firstly, the subject (writing in vernacular) was an uncommon topic in literary discussion at that time.
A Latin translation by Georg Freytag, entitled Arabum Proverbia, was published at Bonn in 1838–1843.
His family was under the patronage of the Qurayshi tribe, and his father was a qāḍī (judge) in Seville and Écija.
It was only in 1827 that Champollion succeeded in translating the hieroglyphs, revealing that they included the names of Domitian, his father Vespasian and his brother Titus.
Works His notable books in history are as follows: 1-Papers in the culture and history of Yaman.(Arabic).
Deep structures are often only represented in the mind (a mirror of thought), as opposed to surface structures, which are not.
Green-Pedersen and Jan Pinborg, in: “Radulphus Brito: commentary on Boethius’ De differentiis topicis and the sophism Omnis homo est omnis homo”, Cahiers de l’Institut du Moyen-Âge Grec et Latin, 26, 1980 pp.
Some experts consider the Bhoja's work as a revision of the veteran Panini and among "most voluminous" Sanskrit works.
Scott visiting professor at Queen's University, Kingston, Canada (1985); visiting fellow in humanities at University of Bologna, Italy (2009).
Æthelstan A borrowed heavily from Aldhelm; he would not copy whole sentences, only a word or a few words, incorporating them in a structure reminiscent of Aldhelm's works.
He explains grammatical gender by saying that masculine or feminine gender was ascribed, either randomly or by some consensus (seu licenter seu decenter), to some entities which lack natural gender.
It sought mainly to help speakers of Koine Greek understand the language of Homer, and other great poets of the past.
Most of the mantras in Sama Veda are either from the Rk Veda or adapted from it, though sung differently.
Examples of regional variation LAP materials document regional variation in American English vocabulary.
The "Objector" assumes that "a white horse is not a horse" is parallel to "a sword is not a weapon," but the "Sophist" is treating the statement as parallel to "a sword is not a blade." Other interpretations have been put forward by Fung Yu-lan and Chad Hansen, among others.
There is no use of sphoṭa as a technical term prior to Patañjali, but Pāṇini (6.1.123) refers to a grammarian named Sphoṭāyana as one of his predecessors.
In the United States, Tarski held a number of temporary teaching and research positions: at Harvard University (1939), at City College of New York (1940), and thanks to a Guggenheim Fellowship, at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton (1942), where he again met Gödel.
[3] Paper by Wiebke Petersen on 'A Mathematical Analysis of Pāṇini’s Śiva sūtras.' [4] Paper by Madhav Deshpande on 'Who Inspired Pāṇini?
The principle was at the time at the heart of the debates of the so-called Vienna Circle, which Ayer had visited as a young guest.
The work, which is a compendium, is valuable as it contains excerpts from the earlier writers on grammar, who are in many cases mentioned by name: Remmius Palaemon, Julius Romanus (Gaius Iulius Romanus), Comminianus.
The examples it includes to illustrate the rules preserve numerous fragments from Latin authors which would otherwise have been lost, including Ennius, Pacuvius, Accius, Lucilius, Cato, Trajan, and Varro.
His father was Aws ibn Thabit also a hadith narrator, while his grandfather Thabit ibn Bashir was one of the three scribes who wrote down the Qur'an during Muhammad's era.
"The Virgil Commentary of Aelius Donatus: Black Hole or 'Éminence Grise'?" Greece & Rome 37.1: 65–79.
He has endeavoured to show that the puzzles and 'mysteries' of consciousness dissolve under careful analysis of the various forms of intransitive and transitive consciousness, and that so-called qualia are no more than a philosopher's fiction.
doi:10.1002/9780470998656.ch4 External links George Edward Moore – philosophypages.com The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy George Edward Moore Moore's Moral Philosophy Works by G.
Abū Zayd Sa’īd ibn Aws al-Anṣārī (أبو زيد سعيد بن أوس الأنصاري; died 830 CE/215 AH) was an Arab linguist and a reputable narrator of hadith.
Priscian was born and raised in the North-African city of Caesarea (modern Cherchell, Algeria), the capital of the Roman province of Mauretania Caesariensis, which during his lifetime would be under the control of the Vandalic Kingdom.
Ibn Mada felt that scholarly work on the Arabic language was intentionally convoluted and inaccessible to both non-native speakers and laymen Arabs, and that an overall simplification of language and grammar would enhance overall comprehension of Arabic.
Yin Weizi first argues for the primacy of the Dao, before immediately addressing the philosophy of the Rectification of Names, arguing that names (名) should correspond to reality (形) before quoting Confucius.
He was the author of a treatise on metres, dedicated to one of his pupils, a youth of senatorial rank, who desired to be instructed in the Horatian metres.
Although a grammar book, Sibawayh extends his theme into phonology, standardised pronunciation of the alphabet and prohibited deviations.
His humanity, good will, gentleness, and especially his encouragement have been documented by many of his peers.
The Wafayat al-Ayan (Obituaries of Eminent Men) by Ibn Khallikan contains a similar account with additional information: Great diversity of opinion exists about his name, surname and genealogy.
Ayer was also involved in politics, including anti-Vietnam War activism, supporting the Labour Party (and later the Social Democratic Party), chairing the Campaign Against Racial Discrimination in Sport, and serving as president of the Homosexual Law Reform Society.
Example An example of Tatwine's work is enigma 11, on the needle: List Tatwine's riddles are on the following topics.
Published at that time more than ninety articles in newspapers and magazines since 1982 related to the Yemeni history and the Yemeni Art.
The Aindra(of Indra) school of Sanskrit grammar is allegedly one of the ancient schools of Sanskrit grammar.
Terentianus, surnamed Maurus (a native of Mauretania), was a Latin grammarian and writer on prosody who flourished probably at the end of the 2nd century AD.
Korner, ed., Observation and Interpretation in the Philosophy of Physics, New York: Dover Publications.
This distinction is also the origin of procedural (knowing-how) and declarative (knowing-that) models of long-term memory.
Upasarga is a term used in Sanskrit grammar for a special class of twenty prepositional particles prefixed to verbs or to action nouns.
In book 17 of the Zhuangzi, Gongsun speaks of himself: When young, I studied the way of the former kings.
Usage Ancient Yaska, in his famous text titled Nirukta, asserts that Rigveda in the ancient tradition, can be interpreted in three ways - from the perspective of religious rites (adhiyajna), from the perspective of the deities (adhidevata), and from the perspective of the soul (adhyatman).
His refutation was written toward the end of his life and demonstrated his clarity of thought and independent judgment, causing his student Ibn Dihya al-Kalby to brand him as the leader of all grammarians.
Bhaṭṭikāvya Indian curriculums in the late classical era had at their core a system of grammatical study and linguistic analysis.
In October 1965, he tore up his Labour Party card because he suspected Harold Wilson's Labour government was going to send troops to support the United States in Vietnam.
4-Glossary of cities and villages in the southern Levant (Syria).(Arabic :بلاد الشام الجنوبية سورية).
De ultimis syllabis ad Caelestinum, a work explaining the quantities and other features of word-endings in the Latin language.
from German to French by Derenbourg and Soury (1873) Le Livre de Sibawaih; the great grammatical treatise known as "Al-Kitāb", or The Book of Sibawayh (c.
Works Kitab al-Amaly (كتاب الأمالي; Book of Dictations) Commentary on the Jumal of Ibn Jinni Commentary on the Tasrif al-Muluki Hamasa See also List of pre-modern Arab scientists and scholars == References ==
It has become a source for how ancient texts should be acted out based on the experience from commonly read ancient authors.
The authorship and date of the oldest Unadi-Sutras (known as the Panchapadi-Unadi-Sutras) is uncertain; some authors would attribute them to Pāṇini himself, others to his predecessors, such as Śākaṭāyana, Āpiśali, or Kātyāyana.
Returning to Saint Petersburg in 1842, he was attached to the Royal Academy of Sciences, and was elected an ordinary member of that society in 1855.
Pratishakhya (Sanskrit: प्रातिशाख्य prātiśākhya), also known as Parsada (pārṣada), are Vedic-era manuals devoted to the precise and consistent pronunciation of words.
External sandhi effects can sometimes become morphologised (apply only in certain morphological and syntactic environments) as in Tamil and, over time, turn into consonant mutations.
"apology of the Egyptian vernacular", literally "the lifting of the burden from the speech of the population of Egypt"), which survives in a unique manuscript kept at St.
The Sarasvataprakriya (Sanskrit: सारस्वतप्रक्रिया; IAST: Sārasvataprakriyā) is a text on Sanskrit grammar written by Anubhūti Svarūpācārya between 1250 and 1450.
See also al-Akhfash al-Awsat (the Middle) al-Akhfash al-Aṣghar (the Younger) Akhfash's goat == References ==
Ibn Mada was notable for having challenged the traditional formation of Arabic grammar and of the common understanding of linguistic governance among Arab grammarians, performing an overhaul first suggested by Al-Jahiz 200 years prior.
One of his works is al-Ikhtiyārayn (الاختيارين), which has been edited and published in a modern edition.
Necklace of the Goddess Sarasvati] is a Sanskrit Vyakarana treatise, authored by Bhoja deva, a king of Paramara dynasty in the 11th century.
The book dwells on earlier styles of composition; the Bedande, the Chattana, and the Gadyakatha, and indicates that these styles were recognised by puratana kavi (lit, "earlier poets").
The main issues that cultural translation must solve consist of translating a text as showing the cultural differences of that text while also respecting the source culture as well.
El-Said Muhammad Badawi (Arabic: السعيد محمد بدوي, romanized: Al-Saʿīd Muḥammad Badawī; 1929 – March 16, 2014) was a scholar and linguist and author of many works, both in English and in Arabic, dealing with various aspects of the Arabic language.
Rather, one simply needs to identify the statement as a tautology (true), a contradiction (false), or neither.
Ibn al-Qūṭiyya's student al-Faraḍī composed a short sketch of his master for his biographical dictionary, preserved in a late medieval manuscript discovered in Tunis in 1887.
He grew up loving knowledge and scholars, so he learned from many of them and associated with some of the literary and virtuous people.
Descended from a branch of the Banu Tamim, Ibn al-ʻAlāʼ is one of the seven primary transmitters of the chain of narration for the Qur'an.
He accompanied Al-Shihab Abd al-Latif ibn al-Marhil and recited to Ibn al-Siraj, and he heard from Abu Hayyan Al-Andalusi the Diwan (collection) of Zuhayr bin Abi Sulma, but he did not stay with him or read to him anything else.
Marcomannic runes A runic alphabet recorded in a treatise called De Inventione Litterarum has been ascribed to Rabanus.
Sanskrit-Wörterbuch in kürzerer Fassung 1879–1889 Panini's Grammatik 1887 Indische Sprüche - Band 1 1863 Band 2 1864 Band 3 1865, Saint Petersburg, Akad.
By using Ādeśa rather than vikāra, and holding on to varna-samāmnāya sound system, Pāṇini was able to achieve economy and brevity in the statements of algebraic system.
Naṣr bn ʿĀṣim al-Laythī or al-Duʾalī (Arabic: نصر بن عاصم اليثي; died 708/709) was an Arabic grammarian from Basra.
As was common at the time due to the enduring Tower of Babel myth, Hensel attempted to derive all languages from a common origin in Hebrew, following A philosophicall essay for the reunion of the languages, or, the art of knowing all by the mastery of one (1675) by Pierre Besnier (1648–1705).
Russell spent the 1950s and 1960s engaged in political causes primarily related to nuclear disarmament and opposing the Vietnam War.
The dissemination of printed Sanskrit texts, however, encouraged the predominance of one form of writing, the Devanāgarī script of central India in which the modern languages Hindī and Marāṭhī are also written.
See also American philosophy List of American philosophers References References Ontology and Analysis: Essays and Recollections about Gustav Bergmann, edited by Laird Addis, Greg Jesson, and Erwin Tegtmeier, Frankfurt: Ontos Verlag, 2007.
He quoted from the book Musālamāt al-Ashrāf (Gestures of Friendship of the Nobles) written by his paternal uncle al-Ḥasan ibn Muḥammad.
The system thus established is extremely detailed as to shiksha (phonology, including accent) and vyakarana (grammar and morphology).
Appendix Probi, dealing with the noun, the use of cases, rules of orthography (valuable in reference to the pronunciation of Latin at the time), and a table of Differentiae.
He held the position of Chair of Islamism and the religions of Arabia in the École des Hautes Études in Paris.
Words are created around object-agent, according to Yaska, to express external or internal reality perceived by man, and are one of six modifications of Kriya (action) and Bhava (dynamic being), namely being born, existing, changing, increasing, decreasing and perishing.
when his return to Syria continued teaching in his hometown Khabab and joined to the Arab Writers Union and to the Heritage Preservation Commission Hauran.
In the Haridäsa, Purédäsa, and Caitanya Maöha editions, which are all based on Bäla, kña is included as the final member of the alphabet.
1058–1148 AD) simply known as Ibn al-Shajari (إبن الشجري), was a prominent Arab grammarian, philologist and poet of Arabic.
Mink's largest contribution to history and philosophy of history was to emphasize the need for history to think of its published narratives as very similar to other narrative forms, such as fiction.
The numerous explanatory notes, which are a notable characteristic of the lexicon, make it a mine of information on historical details relating to the ritual.
Dictionarium quatuor linguarum (The Dictionary of Four Languages) is a 16th-century book by the German polymath Hieronymus Megiser that includes a multilingual dictionary and a multilingual grammar of Italian, Slovene, German, and Latin.
The vigraha (“separation of the constituent words”) of the compound word näräyaëa is: näram ayanam yasya saù näräyaëaù (“Näräyaëa is He whose shelter is the Vraja-väsés”) Thus the word näräyaëa here means Çré Kåñëa, the Supreme Personality of Godhead who appears in a human-like form.
Craig (ed.), Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, London: Routledge (1998) [1] Harold Coward, The Sphota Theory of Language: A Philosophical Analysis, Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, 1980.
Its full title reads: Synopsis universae philologiae: in qua: miranda unitas et harmonia linguarum totius orbis terrarum occulta, e literarum, syllabarum, vocumque natura & recessibus eruitur.
1976 revisions In 1976 the IPA council voted on a number of proposals for reform, several of which were already in unofficial use.
Abu ʾl-Faḍl Aḥmad ibn Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad ibn Ibrāhīm al-Naysābūrī al-Maydānī (died 27 October 1124) was an Arab scholar in Persia, an expert on Arabic philology and on Islamic adab (etiquette).
La sabiduría árabe antigua reflejada en los proverbios de al-Maydānī: traducción y análisis paremiológico de un corpus seleccionado (PDF) (Doctoral thesis).
When Schlick arrived in Vienna, he was invited to lead a group of scientists and philosophers who met regularly (on Thursday evenings in the Chemistry Building) to discuss philosophical topics in the sciences.
"Über den Begriff der logischen Folgerung", Actes du Congrès international de philosophie scientifique, Sorbonne, Paris 1935, vol.
See also Aretaic turn Cultural turn Critical theory Deconstruction Discourse analysis Formal semantics (natural language) Historical turn Semiotics Structural linguistics References Further reading Gross, Neil (2008), Richard Rorty, The Making of an American Philosopher.
The gaṇapāṭha listing has these variants, not the forms in pausa, and thus has twenty-two items in all.
The grammatical system based on this text, called Sārasvatavyākaraṇa, was popular due to its brevity and relative simplicity, especially among Jains.
This has led to the emergence of a great number of commentaries of his work over the centuries, which for the most part adhere to the foundations laid by Pāṇini's work.
Abu al-Hasan would therefore become a faithful disciple of al-Kisai, and he showed great interest in grammar and philology.
The sense of an expression is said to be the "mode of presentation" of the item referred to, and there can be multiple modes of representation for the same referent.
By tutoring the children of the wealthy, grammarians could meet and become associated with prominent families in Rome.
Mohammed ibn Ahmed ibn Uthman Al-Dhahabi's biographic encyclopedia Siyar A'lam al-Nubala (سير أعلام النبلاء) (Lives of The Noble Scholars) is the main biographic source.
Society and Economy in Egypt and the Eastern Mediterranean, 1600–1900, American Univ in Cairo Press (2005), p.
Lingua Aegyptiaca Restituta, on the other hand, was regarded as an authoritative piece of scholarship for many years—as late as 1775 parts of it were incorporated into Scholtz and Woide's Lexicon Aegyptiaco-Latinum.
The roots of Shiksha can be traced to the Rigveda which dedicates two hymns 10.125 and 10.71 to revere sound as a goddess, and links the development of thought to the development of speech.
Ars Grammatica The Ars Grammatica, in five books, is addressed to his son (not a Roman, as the preface shows).
In it he appears as the true pupil of Ibn Ezra, becoming, like him, the propagator of Hebrew philology and Biblical exegesis as they flourished in the Arabic language in Spain.
Interpreting Studies The discipline of interpreting studies is often referred to as the sister of translation studies.
His status was considered by many Muslim scholars to be of the highest rank in regard to biographical evaluation, and he is quoted in both Sahih Muslim and Sahih al-Bukhari, the two most significant collections for Sunni Muslims.
The Guru Granth Sahib is organised by chapters of ragas, with each chapter containing many shabads of that raga.
They propose to validate the view attributed to Śākaṭāyana that all words can be analysed by the addition of affixes to verbal roots.
Voyles and Barrack (2009) Owis eḱwōs kʷe Owis, jāi wl̥nā ne eest, dedorḱe eḱwons, tom woǵʰom gʷr̥um weǵʰontm̥, tom bʰorom meǵm̥, tom ǵʰm̥onm̥ ōku bʰerontm̥.
Al-Nadim also names ibn Duraid among a group of scholar proofreaders who corrected the Kitāb al-'Ayn.
This has led to confusion among philosophers and "since natural laws are only descriptions of what happens, there can be in regard to them no talk of 'compulsion'".
English translation The Sheep and the Horses A sheep that had no wool saw horses, one of them pulling a heavy wagon, one carrying a big load, and one carrying a man quickly.
Chomsky asserts that this focus on innate and psychological doctrine as a precursor to experience and knowledge is typical of Cartesian linguistics, along with the requisite of an external stimulus for activation of the doctrine's latent function.
Translation It was translated into Syriac by Joseph Huzaya of the school of Nisibis in the 6th century.
This verse appears in Jyotirvidabharana, which is supposed to be a work of the great Kalidasa but is in fact a late forgery.
Hansen of the University of Illinois conducted a historical investigation of New England's settlement and population patterns to provide a basis for community selection.
With regard to the rule, requiring the substitution of soft unaspirate consonants in the place of hard consonants, the ādeśa that takes place in place of a vowel is not sthānvit.
Varro decided to focus on identifying nine of these arts: grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, musical theory, medicine, and architecture.
Early life Ibn Mālik was born in Jaén, Spain (al-Andalus) in 600 AH/1203 CE, during a period of political instability as Christian forces advanced in the Iberian Peninsula.
The argument clearly depends on the assumption that if 'good' were definable, it would be an analytic truth about 'good', an assumption that many contemporary moral realists like Richard Boyd and Peter Railton reject.
Jamāl al-Dīn Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn Mālik al-Ṭāʾī al-Jayyānī (600–672 AH / 1203–1274 CE), widely known as Ibn Mālik, was an Andalusian grammarian, philologist, and linguist.
These included [Georg] Trakl as well as Rainer Maria Rilke and the architect Adolf Loos", and also the painter Oskar Kokoschka.
Each Vedic school (parisad, or parsad) and geographic branch (sakha) developed their own manuals, explaining why they have come to be called parsada or pratisakhya.
Wittgenstein grew further dismayed at the state of philosophy, particularly about articles published in the journal Mind.
Sanskrit devá, Latin deus, etc.) However, in a later stage of the language this appears to have extended to non-ablauting noun stems that already contained *e, which would contract with the inserted vowel to form a lengthened *ē: PIE *swéḱur-o- "father-in-law" (cf.
Through the influence of King Æthelbald he was appointed as Archbishop of Canterbury in 731 and was consecrated on 10 June 731.
Priestley, and the Oxford history professor Hugh Trevor-Roper." Russell published a highly critical article in The Minority of One weeks before the Warren Commission report was published, setting forth 16 Questions on the Assassination.
"Thus prior knowledge and set play a large role in determining what we see" (Cudworth [Treatise on Morality] 423-424) A common idea/perception was that an object/idea could be stamped upon the soul upon the occasion of an idea excited from the comprehensive power of the intellect itself.
Bhartrhari thus rejected the difference posited between the ontological and the linguistic by logicians.
In 1885 he was named professor of Islamism and of the religions of Arabia at the École pratique des hautes études in Paris.
The vowels ai and au were realized in Vedic as long diphthongs āi and āu, respectively, but they became correspondingly short in Classical Sanskrit: dyā́us > dyáus.
Fifteen works by al-Maydānī are known, of which the most famous is the paremiological Majmaʿ al-amthāl, which remains the "most popular collection of classical Arabic proverbs".
Mink received his bachelor's degree from Hiram College, then served in the United States Army during World War II.
Tatwine's riddles deal with such diverse topics as philosophy and charity, the five senses and the alphabet, and a book, and a pen, yet, according to Mercedes Salvador-Bello, these riddles are placed in a carefully structured sequence: 1–3 and 21–26 on theology (e.g.
History The LAP was conceived as part of a broader plan for a Linguistic Atlas of the United States and Canada to document North American English dialects.
Bhartrhari's works have been studied in various Indian philosophical traditions, including Vedanta and Mimamsa.
In 1880 Derenbourg had discovered the only known manuscript of the Kitāb al-i'tibār by the poet-envoy Usāma ibn Munqidh.
He was a descendant of Ali ibn Abi Talib, the cousin of Muhammad and the last caliph of the Rashidun Caliphate who ruled from 656 to 661.
His first great work was a translation of the Sanskrit grammar of Panini, Aṣṭādhyāyī, with a German commentary, under the title Acht Bücher grammatischer Regeln (Bonn, 1839–1840).
The obelisk of Domitian The obelisk was originally commissioned from Egypt by the emperor Domitian, probably for the Temple of Isis and Serapis.
Instead he adopted the abjad, or Arabic alphabetic ordering system that is the universal standard of dictionary format today.
Finally, at the age of 18, after reading Mill's Autobiography, he abandoned the "First Cause" argument and became an atheist.
Vararuci is also believed to be the originator of the Katapayadi notation of depicting numbers, which has been used in the formulation of Chandravākyās.
Katyayana is identified as the Vārttikakāra of Indian linguistics, who wrote commentaries on Pāṇini's Aṣṭādhyāyi.
His father was a sculptor although it seems the disciplines he devoted his life to, philology and lexicography, had been in his family.
A frequently noted example is that Aristotle's logic is unable to represent mathematical statements like Euclid's theorem, a fundamental statement of number theory that there are an infinite number of prime numbers.
According to Moore, "intuitions" revealed not the rightness or wrongness of specific actions, but only what items were good in themselves, as ends to be pursued.
Consentius the son rose to high honor under Valentinian III, who named him Comes Palatii and dispatched him upon an important mission to Theodosius II.
His treatise on metrics also contains in the beginning some chapters on vowels, consonants and syllabus.
He explicitly differentiates signifié and signifiant, the word itself and the thing signified by it.
While studying for his doctorate, he was invited to join the Vienna Circle, a group of philosophers, mathematicians, scientists, and others committed to a scientific worldview under the name of logical positivism.
Rhemnius Fannius Palaemon De Ponderibus & Mensuris, et Sulpiciae Satyra cum integris Doctorum Virorum Notis & quorumdam excerptis, vol.
In an early scene, the android ‘David’ (played by Michael Fassbender) practises reciting Schleicher’s fable to the interactive computer, in preparation for first contact with the ‘Engineers’.
Character and scholarship Contemporaries described Ibn Mālik as dignified, modest, and devoted to study and teaching.
Their differences have been suggested to lie at the core of the late division of Arabic grammar into the schools of Kufa and Basra.
See also al-Akhfash al-Akbar (the Oldest) al-Akhfash al-Awsat (the Middle) Akhfash's goat == References ==
Works Ibn Mālik was a prolific author whose writings cover grammar, morphology, philology, Qurʾānic recitation, and hadith studies.
Abū Bakr Muḥammad ibn al-Qāsim ibn Muḥammad ibn Bashār al-Anbārī (Arabic: أبوبكر محمد بن القاسم بن محمد بن بشّار الأنباري) (885–940 AD), also known simply as Ibn al-Anbari (ابن الأنباري), was a well known Arab philologist and grammarian of the Abbasid Caliphate.
Ἀττικιστὴν ὑπ' Ἀττικῶν ὀνομάτων βιβλία β#, Τιθεμένων συναγωγήν, Σοφιστικῆς παρασκευῆς βιβλία μζ#, οἱ δὲ οδ#.
Though he was largely ignored during his lifetime, Giuseppe Peano (1858–1932), Bertrand Russell (1872–1970), and, to some extent, Ludwig Wittgenstein (1889–1951) introduced his work to later generations of philosophers.
See also Analytic philosophy § Ideal language Formal semantics (natural language) Linguistic turn Philosophical language Notes References External links Entry on analytic philosophy in the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy
Böhtlingk took up Panini's grammar again, 47 years after his first edition, when he republished it with a complete translation under the title Panini's Grammatik mit Übersetzung (Leipzig, 1887).
2015 References External links Arabic-English Dictionary of Qur'anic Usage A Dictionary of Egyptian Arabic: Arabic - English
During the 1970s many programmers began to write 'conceptual ontologies', which structured real-world information into computer-understandable data.
According to Scharfe, and other scholars, the insights developed in this field, over time, likely also influenced phonetic scripts in parts of East Asia, as well as Arabic grammarian Khalil in 8th-century CE.
Vṛddhi in Sanskrit The general phenomenon of vowel gradation, including vṛddhi formation, has been extensively studied and documented as part of Sanskrit's vigorous grammatical tradition, most importantly in the Aṣṭādhyāyī of the grammarian Pāṇini.
Alongside the term bahuvrīhi, tatpuruṣa has also been adopted in mainstream Indo-European linguistics as the technical term denoting this type of compounding.
With Coptic texts, he did not translate them, but merely placed them side by side—often inaccurately—with their equivalent passages from the Vulgate.
Ibn Abi Ishaq was said to be more proficient with the rules of grammar than the analysis of common speech.
Gaṇapāṭha The Gaṇapāṭha is a list of groups of primitive nominal stems (roots) used by the Aṣṭādhyāyī.
The examples demonstrate the composition of the compound's elements, and the meanings in English generally correspond to them, in most cases being a similar compound as well.
One can find a variety of machines used in the transmission or recording of language: a telex, a microfiche reader and a typewriter with both normal and phonetic alphabet keyboards.
These include the names of the Olympian gods, personified deities, and many words that describe abstract concepts.
He was probably an African by birth, summoned to Constantinople to take the place of Euanthius, a learned commentator on Terence.
Others, including the circle's leading light, Moritz Schlick, were already writing papers on the issue.
Frege According to Michael Dummett, the linguistic turn can be dated to Gottlob Frege's 1884 work The Foundations of Arithmetic, specifically paragraph 62 where Frege explores the identity of a numerical proposition.
All are misattributed to Marcus Valerius Probus, including: Catholica Probi, on the declension of nouns, the conjugation of verbs, and the rhythmic endings of sentences.
IPA symbols may be used when the transcriber is 'not quite sure', such as (t̲̅) for what is thought to be [t].
There is a nine-part word classification system, which strayed away from the previous eight-part classification system.
Although effective, the large dots were difficult to use on small-size fonts and on any but a limited selection of scripts.
He lived in the taifa principality of "Dénia and the Eastern Islands" (طائفة دانية والجزائر الشرقية) under the rule of Emir Mujahid al-Amiri al-Muwaffaq (الأمير مجاهد العامري) (1044-1014) and he travelled to Mecca and Medina.
The poet and his grandson were praised by Sidonius Apollinaris, but the son may be the best candidate for the grammarian.
Thought operates by śabdana or 'speaking', - so that the mechanisms of thought are the same as that of language.
However, the contraction of two syllables, the first of which carries an udātta (high pitch) and the second a so-called "dependent svarita" (high falling pitch), gave rise to a small number of words with the "independent svarita" on a short vowel in a late pronunciation of Vedic.
The Unadi-Sutras (Sanskrit उणादि-सूत्र uṇādi-sūtra-) are a group of texts in Indian grammatical tradition (Vyākaraṇa).
220 BCE); ancient characters were collected from the texts found in Confucius's mansion, and Zhou characters were taken from the Historian Zhou's Primer (c.
He responded thusly, advocating for what can be seen as a minimal state: 人君之事，無為而能容下。夫事寡易從，法省易因；故民不以政獲罪也。大道容眾，大德容下；聖人寡為而天下理矣。《書》曰：『睿作聖』。詩人曰：『岐有夷之行，子孫其保之！』 "As for a ruler's duties, wuwei can accommodate.
Robert Holden (born 1965) is a British psychologist, author, and broadcaster, who works in the field of positive psychology and well-being.
Affiliations, awards, and achievements Member of the International Coaching Federation (IFC) Presented the first Arabic meditation audio CD available on iTunes, Google Play, and Amazon.
Career Burnett is a DIY and interior design enthusiast and has been investing in and developing properties since 2009.
Science communicator Jonathan Jarry of the Office for Science and Society, McGill University described Sears as part of the conspirituality trend, combining conspiracy theories and New Age spirituality.
He is also a frequent resource person on psychological topics in the news programs and documentary shows of GMA Network, TV5 (Philippines), and other networks.
Her collection of short stories, New York 1, Tel Aviv 0, was published by FSG and Random House Canada in November 2014.
She also served as National Coordinator of the Coalition of Grassroots Women from 1981 to 1984 and ran for New York State Assembly in 1988.
He has guest starred on the television shows as NYPD Blue, ALF, and as the Ferengi Kazago in the Star Trek: The Next Generation episode "The Battle".
Personal life From 1990 to 2000 Søgaard was married to the successful Swedish singer Carola Häggkvist.
She is a certified life coach through the International Coaching Federation, specializing in family recovery and relationships, and founded the organization Families United for Recovery.
He made a X-Up Case Study: Currency as an advertising medium – X-Up: Creative Vision about the campaign.
Career After graduating from college, Magalski became a casting assistant and production coordinator for various TV shows on ABC and CBS.
Welcome to the world baby: 'Kaabo sinu aye Omo titun' Dual Language Yoruba translation by Abimbola Alao.
For this conduct Santos separately agreed to plead guilty to perjury, and guilty for helping others distribute the cocaine leftover from the previous indictment.
She has played shows with Our Lady Peace, Bif Naked, Paul Hyde, Strapping Young Lad, DOA, the Melvins, and Jello Biafra, and performed approximately 500 live shows from 1986 to 2010 including November 29, 2003, at the Pacific Coliseum in Vancouver, British Columbia, with THOR and D.O.A.
Filmography References External links Official Doug Warhit Website Doug Warhit at IMDb Doug Warhit at Yahoo Movies
Duke accompanied Sorokin and Rachel DeLoache Williams on a trip to La Mamounia in Marrakech in May 2017.
Donna Yoh (June 22, 1959 – August 9, 2011) was an American politician who served one term in the Kansas House of Representatives as the representative from the 2nd district.
Burton is a credentialed member of the International Coach Federation and a member of the National Speakers Association.
In 2004, Congress passed the Debbie Smith Act, which provided funding for police to work off backlogs of unexamined rape kits like Masters.
During the filming of the show, Arlington's daughter, Alexis, was arrested for her involvement in the Bling Ring, a crime group that broke into the homes of celebrities including Orlando Bloom, Audrina Patridge, Paris Hilton, Rachel Bilson, and Lindsay Lohan.
One Day My Soul Just Opened Up: 40 Days And 40 Nights Toward Spiritual Strength And Personal Growth.
She has also been on various compilations including Trooper tribute and a Green Party album featuring Bruce Cockburn and Bill Henderson, Joe Keithley (D.O.A.), and Bif Naked.
In 2012 his business Vinger Consulting AB was threatened with bankruptcy following a lawsuit by On Strategies LLC.
Biography In 1990, after several years observing the decision-making strategies of traders such as Richard Dennis, Jim Rogers, Paul Tudor Jones and Tom Baldwin, Faulkner himself became a trader.
Her band toured and shared stages with such gospel artists as: Kirk Franklin, Yolanda Adams, Cece Winans, Donnie McClurkin, T-Bone, Hezekiah Walker, and Vicki Winans.
Because this is a somatic event rather than an exclusively cognitive one, new information or theoretical insight will not shift the response.
Later in 2020, White was announced as a returning cast member for a touring production of The Play That Goes Wrong.
Bibliography See also List of Auburn University people Business fable References External links Official Andy Andrews website
She resumed swimming in 2003 after a 23-year hiatus and is now a top-ranked Masters Swimmer in multiple events.
Dance In 1990, Rosen co-founded Amy Pivar Dances, a contemporary dance theater company that performed works created in collaboration with Amy Pivar, a Bessie Award winner.
Professional career Early recruiting career Claudio began his professional career in the recruiting and healthcare staffing industry.
Deliverance demonstrated Cardwell's exploration of neo soul, as well as further use of soul and hip hop than compared to previous releases.
Portrayal in popular culture She is portrayed by Laverne Cox in the 2022 Netflix drama series Inventing Anna.
Charitable work and community service A significant aspect of Jeshurun's charitable work involves organizing and participating in football matches for various causes.
It premiered at the South by Southwest film festival in March 2016 and was released by Netflix on July 15, 2016.
News outlet Costa Rica Hoy observed that Costa Ricans familiar with Sears's satirical style would probably be amused by the video, while those who were unfamiliar with it would not.
She has been a recurring columnist for Backstage magazine, and in 2012 she published her book How to be a Happy Actor in a Challenging Business: A Guide to Thriving Through it All.
She attended Kyneton Secondary College, before going on to complete a Graduate Diploma of Arts in Commercial Radio in Melbourne.
McLean had been crowned Miss Namibia 1991 before Miss Universe, and also placed as the fourth runner-up at Miss World 1991.
In 2001, he published How to Build a Multi-level Money Machine: The Science of Network Marketing, a book about success in the network marketing business.
She appeared in the 2022 Netflix documentary series The Real Bling Ring: Hollywood Heist, which covers her daughter's role in the crime group the Bling Ring.
In 2012, his third book, The Charge: Activating the 10 Human Drives That Make You Feel Alive reached #1 on The Wall Street Journal bestseller list.
Co-star Don Franklin expressed his dissatisfaction with the show, and Vail was reported to have left the show entirely (according to some show sources over a dispute with Seven Days co-star Jonathan LaPaglia), only to later return and finish the third season.
Early life White was born on 28 May 1995 to a Jamaican mother and an English father, alongside sister Cat and another sister.
Although Santos was not initially charged with distribution of cocaine that took place after his arrest, he made a statement to the U.S.
Psychotherapy practice Rosen's crown achievement was her psychotherapy practice in New York City where she conducted group, individual and couples sessions for over 10 years.
By 1992 Santos earned a bachelor's degree from Mercer University (with a degree in human resources management).
Due to demand for additional support in the trans community, the founders of Point 5cc created a sister non-profit organization, Point of Pride.
Career Robbins began promoting seminars for motivational speaker and author Jim Rohn when he was 17 years old.
Recognition In April 2025, DDnard received the "Leader of the Year" award at the Women Changing the World Awards in London.
Magalski attended American International University (AIU) in London and graduated with a degree in Communications.
Shortly after her brother's death, Arlington began booking small acting roles on sitcoms in Los Angeles, where she met Mikel Neiers, a Hollywood cinematographer known for working as the director of photography on Friends and Spin City.
The couple also took part in series five of Celebrity Hunted in 2023 for charity Stand Up to Cancer.
In 1990 he passed an evaluation by the screening commissions and, as a person with integrity, was recommended for further service with the Ministry of the Interior.
Andrews was also a diamond in Amway's MLM business which allowed him to earn money from conventions and meetings.
An adult version of the children’s story, titled The Butterfly Effect, was also released as a gift book.
Marie Forleo (born December 7, 1975) is an American entrepreneur and founder of Marie Forleo International.
They won five out of six awards including best director and best production - a first in the school's history that the freshman year would win over higher years and winning most of the awards at the same time.
Through her initiatives and public engagements, she has contributed to discussions on diversity and leadership, including participation in events and programs aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Early years Burton grew up moving a number of times as a child in an Air Force family, living in Florida, West Germany and Colorado.
See also Human potential movement Self-help Notes External links Charles Faulkner Interview Charles's official website Further reading Schwager, Jack D.
Crabtree was played as a hopeless British undercover officer, disguised constantly as a French local policeman during the Second World War.
The novel follows Eli, a combat veteran struggling with PTSD, who finds redemption through faith and martial arts.
In 2014, he donated the profits of his book, Money: Master the Game, along with an additional personal donation, through Feeding America to provide meals to people in need.
Mercieca contributes to national television shows such as Seven Network's The Morning Show and Sunrise and Network 10's The Circle, radio stations, publications, and events.
In a 2013 interview with Playboy magazine, Robbins disclosed that he had been diagnosed with acromegaly at age 31, but refused his doctor's recommendation to undergo brain surgery.
Personal life Miller first started to diet when she was eight years old, developing an eating disorder while in 9th grade.
Abimbola’s teaching career began at the Institute of Education, University of Plymouth, where she was a tutor from 2003 to 2007.
And not just because you want to lose five pounds or you want blond hair and you have brown hair, but actually just disassociating from the body that you're in, and feeling like you're stuck in it.
Research interests Trauma In August of 2024, Tumminio Hansen published Trauma-Informed Spiritual Care: Interventions for Safety, Meaning, Reconnection, and Justice.
He served as a campaign staff member for Scott Walker, the then governor of Wisconsin, and was also a member of the national planning committee for Tony Evers, the incumbent governor of Wisconsin.
Caroline Adams Miller (born September 15, 1961) is an American executive coach and motivational speaker.
From 2005 to 2007 she sang in the two lead singer metal/rock band Approach The Throne, with Chris "Val" Valagao (Zimmers Hole) as the other singer.
Each person’s unique somatic shape is formed by responses to past experiences, positive and negative, which are established as deep, mostly unconscious patterns of muscular activity in the body.
She was a columnist for BlackAmericaWeb.com and is a frequent guest on CNN's Reclaim Your Career segment.
In 2017, the castle and estate manager employed by Peña at Guthrie Castle was found to have committed fraud by double or triple booking wedding facilities and paying the hire charges into their own account.
In 2013, the first English-language edition of The Compass of Now was released through The Life Compass Ltd.
In 2000, LaCroix became interested in the Human Potential Movement, studied to be a business coach, moved to the San Francisco Bay Area and began a private practice training and coaching business people in 2001.
In the 1992 Miss Universe pageant she finished second in the preliminary with a score of 9.147, right behind Carolina Izsak of Venezuela, who won all three preliminary competitions.
To combat teens' indifference to the threat of STD's, Franzini and MTV created a campaign in which teens were shown recklessly refusing protection in non-sexual contexts, such as riding a roller coaster and going shark diving.
After signing with a modelling agency she was featured on Pirelli Calendars, swimwear catalogues, and television adverts, from which she began to do topless modelling.
She is the author of four books, and has previously worked in finance, as a life coach, and public speaker.
In September 2020, Nantomah was recognized by the 45th President of the United States Donald Trump with the President’s Honours Roll.
In 2011, Johnson & Johnson hired Michael X Franzini to travel to all 50 states to photograph one baby in each state.
In 2000, Wade Cook sued Robbins for allegedly using copyrighted terms from Cook's book Wall Street Money Machine in his seminars.
While he assisted with many programs his main duties were to help players with the NFL transition and to help with support off of the field.
Awards As of March 16, 2015, Oria was a finalist for the Lambda Literary Award for Lesbian Fiction and a nominee for the Edmund White Award.
She worked for King World Productions before going back to school and received a Master's degree in Acting at The Maggie Flanigan Studio affiliated with Rutgers University.
New Age Thought and Religious Science Arlington became fascinated with Rhonda Byrne's book The Secret about the pseudoscientific law of attraction and Norman Vincent Peale's book The Power of Positive Thinking.
In 2000, Jeffries sued John White (also known as Don Steele) alleging invasion of privacy, business interference, slander and libel.
During the 1980s she wrote a weekly syndicated column, "Sexually Speakin' and Otherwise;" appeared on numerous radio and TV programs speaking on such topics as sex and intimacy; and led workshops on sexuality, women's issues, and lesbian and gay issues.
Arlington authored the book Revelations of a Bad Mom: Journey of Loving Your Child into Recovery and Healing Your Family.
In 2005, Bostrom guest-starred in Dead Man Walking, an audio drama based on the television series Sapphire and Steel.
Warhit has an undergraduate degree from New York University and a master's degree from Antioch University.
Chani Getter is an American counselor and interfaith minister focusing on those leaving the Haredi Jewish community and those in transition.
Caitriona Reed (born 1949) is an American sensei of Thiền Zen Buddhism who also has a background in Vipassanā meditation.
Books The Dreamer's Manifesto, 2018 ISBN 9781999957131 Stepping Beyond Intention, 2019 ISBN 9781999957117 Money Game, 2021 ISBN 9798461979881 External links Official website Daniel Mangena at IMDb == References ==
Philanthropy The Mystic Twins have made donations to orphanages and disadvantaged communities in Ghana, including in Kumasi and Accra, to support education and provide resources.
Dowling's appearance in Men's Health positively affected the lives of other transgender men, and his work has inspired other transgender people to create their own blogs and YouTube channels to document their own experiences.
Since leaving the LDS Church, both Martha Beck and her now ex-husband subsequently came out publicly as gay.
She appeared on Oprah, Good Morning America, Larry King Live, The Big Idea with Donny Deutsch, and Fox & Friends, and was a regular contributor to Oprah.com and Huffington Post.
Born and raised in New York City, she performed in various singing competitions as a child and rose to fame in the early 1990s as a guest vocalist for Lil Louis on the number 1 Dance singles "Club Lonely" and "Saved My Life".
Her case was reopened, and DNA testing matched a serial rapist, but at that time the two (2) statute of limitations allotted had already expired.
Her clients include Aboitiz Group of Companies, Arts Council of Cebu, Ayala Land, ABS-CBN Television Cebu, Cebu Holdings Inc., and Jollibee Foods Corp.
He subsequently served as National Director of Talent Acquisition at Ensemble Health Partners, a leading provider of technology enabled revenue cycle management solutions for health systems, from 2021 to 2023.
Author and columnist Jan Guillou at the Aftonbladet newspaper called for calm and wrote "it would be of great harm for Sweden's Muslims if Søgaard was harmed".
Washington Commanders On June 25, 2024, Thompson was named the senior director of team support and advancement of the Washington Commanders.
Mühlfeit was involved in formulating Microsoft's global strategies for the emerging markets and served as advisor to many governmental organisations and NGOs in the region (EMEA).
She has played guitar for THOR as well as having Jello Biafra produce and perform back up vocals for her debut album, Evil Needs Candy Too, which was released on Alternative Tentacles in 2005.
Filmography Bibliography How to Be a Happy Actor in a Challenging Business: A Guide to Thriving Through It All, CreateSpace, 2012, ISBN 978-1-47752-221-9 References External links Justina Vail Evans at IMDb
In Rich Minds, Rich Rewards (2001), she describes ways to focus "on what's truly important in life." In What's Really Holding You Back?
"Black Women Misbehavin': A New Politics of Sexuality" Feminist collections (Madison, Wis.), 2015-06-22, Vol.36 (3-4), p.1 External links Official website Abiola Abrams at IMDb
New York 1, Tel Aviv 0 was translated into Hebrew and published in Israel by Keter Books in August 2015.
Peña refers to himself as the "trillion-dollar man." He works as a motivational speaker and is known for his brash persona.
During the 2023 Swiss federal election she did not run for re-election and is due to leave her post on 3 December 2023.
Although this was the first time she publicly came out, Reed stated close friends had known for around twenty years.
She cofounded Paragon Strategies in 2004 with two other trainers from San Francisco, which presently serves various businesses worldwide in optimizing their employee satisfaction and productivity.
On January 27, 1991 Pavlina was arrested for grand theft in Sacramento, California and given 60 hours of community service.
He attended Queen Elizabeth's School, Barnet, then went on to graduate from the Bayes Business School at the City St George's, University of London in 2010 with a degree in Management science.
Magalski’s mother died due to a drug overdose when she was 27 and her father struggles with a crack addiction.[1] She is a board-certified and accredited member of the American Association of Drugless Practitioners.
This event gave her the opportunity to start designing training modules and writing full length plays.
Rated a two-star prospect, he had other offers from East Carolina University, Kentucky, Vanderbilt, and Furman.
In 2012, she appeared on Super Soul Sunday (Season 2), a talk show hosted by Oprah Winfrey, airing on OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network in an episode titled "Debbie Ford: Out of the Shadows", in which she talked about her eleven-year-old struggle with cancer.
On August 6, 2025, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission charged Joseph Nantomah and his three Wisconsin based companies with operating a real estate-related offering fraud, targeting members of the Nigerian-American community.
She was also given an Honourable Mention for the Golden Heart Award, recognising her contributions to entrepreneurship, mindfulness education, and philanthropy.
This was her second nude photoshoot, but later claimed that she was unaware the photos "were going to be anything but tasteful" or they would appear "in one of the really naughty magazines".
Early life At the age of 13, Michelle McLean entered the world of international modelling, being crowned Miss Namibia in 1991 and reaching the all-time high as Miss Universe, crowned in Bangkok, Thailand, in 1992 - at the age of 19.
World Championships in Paris, France -69 kg (Semi-Contact) 2002 Irish Open in Dublin, Ireland -69 kg (Semi-Contact) x4 W.A.K.O.
A member of the National Speakers Association (NSA), in July 2013 Gage was inducted into the NSA's Council of Peers Award for Excellence (CPAE) Speaker Hall of Fame, and at the same event won NSA's Nido Qubein Philanthropist of the Year Award.
He went on to become president of Great Western Resources, Inc., a Houston-based oil company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984.
After contacting her local city council, Masters started working with Texas House representative Victoria Neave.
For more than 28 years, she has supported hospitals, free schools, and hosted free meditation retreats.
She was sick for the majority of the vacation, and booked a flight back to the United States with Williams' help.
During his high school career, Thompson threw for 1,300 yards, rushed for 500 yards, and accounted for 21 touchdowns in just six games, leading his high school to an 8-4 record before losing to AAAA state finalist Sumter in his junior year.
Their activities have attracted both support and skepticism, with media coverage noting debates around the role of spirituality in contemporary Ghana.
Neil Strauss, in his 2005 book The Game, describes Jeffries as the "godfather" of the modern pick-up artist community.
Biography Early life Bostrom was born in Rugby, Warwickshire and attended Lawrence Sheriff School, where he was a contemporary with Kevin Warwick.
With several published works to her name, she has conducted workshops and delivered lectures designed to enhance personal skills and foster self-awareness.
He speaks on various topics including business, success and self-development but is most known for his love and relationship advice for young girls which has garnered him a large Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter following.
He holds an honorary degree from American Heritage University of Southern California, and has been featured in the print editions of The Wall Street Journal and Marquis Who’s Who.
He attended Boiling Springs High School, earning scholarship offers in both football and basketball.
He was promoted to the active roster on November 21, 2015, as backup to Blaine Gabbert after Colin Kaepernick was placed on injured reserve for the rest of the season.
In May 1995, Robbins Research International (RRI) settled with the Federal Trade Commission over alleged violations of the agency's Franchise Rule.
Schwager included a profile of Faulkner in The New Market Wizards: Conversations with America's Top Traders.
Strozzi Institute is an organization located in Oakland, California that offers coaching services and trainings in leadership, organizational development, and personal mastery.
Tony Robbins' 2014 event "Date with Destiny" in Boca Raton, Florida was the basis for the documentary Tony Robbins: I Am Not Your Guru, directed and produced by Joe Berlinger.
In September 2015, she told Israeli newspaper Yediot Ahronot that she's currently at work on several projects, including a play trilogy, a feature film, and a novel.
In 1990, soon after the birth of her third child, Beck, as a part-time faculty member at BYU in Provo, Utah, taught a course on the sociology of gender in the Department of Social Science.
He is also part of the Rumi's Cave team working as a teacher, events host, speaker and Imam for Friday congregational prayers and Ramadan taraweer prayers.
She is known primarily for her books, her eponymous talk show, and her appearances on The Oprah Winfrey Show.
Clinical practice Randy established the Life Change Recovery Center, a treatment facility for drug dependents and psychiatric patients.
She is best known for her voice roles as Gwen on Total Drama, Jen Masterson on 6teen, and Eva Kant in Diabolik.
In 2003, at the age of 17, he saved up to join a gym, but was denied membership because his family didn't have a credit card.
Reality television In 2010, Arlington and her family were the main focus of the American reality television series Pretty Wild, produced by Chelsea Handler, Barry Katz, and Dan Levy.
I have pushed and prodded my intellect on academic as well as home fronts…always seeking…always yearning…always pressing for more…more…and more still.
In February 1984, she decided it was time to seek help and began to attend Overeaters Anonymous, eventually overcoming her disorder.
Writing from a young age, it wasn't until her own battle with depression that she was inspired to pen her first book, The Upside of Down: A personal journey and toolkit for overcoming depression, self-published in Australia in 2009.
In 2017, High Performance Habits became a Wall Street Journal bestseller and was #2 on Amazon's "Best business and leadership books of 2017" list.
Works African Goddess Initiation: Sacred Rituals for Self-Love, Prosperity, and Joy (2021) African Goddess Rising Oracle Cards (2021) Enter the Goddess Temple (2021) Sacred Bombshell Handbook of Self-Love (2014) Dare: A Love Story (2008) Goddess City (2011) References Further reading Alick, Claudia.
He also carried out a guest role on the popular series Beverly Hills, 90210 alongside his sister Tori Spelling.
Early life and education Although born in San Juan, Puerto Rico, Claudio was raised in Oklahoma, where he attended schools in Broken Arrow before transferring to and graduating from Putnam City High School.
Andrea Arlington, formerly Neiers and Dunn, is an American life coach, writer, minister, former television personality, and former model.
Ddnard Napattalung (Thai: ฐิตินาถ ณ พัทลุง; born 23 March 1969), is an entrepreneur, investor, author, and philanthropist.
Early life and education Bernstein grew up in Larchmont, New York where she attended a Jewish summer camp and led a youth group.
In 1984, Peña bought Guthrie Castle in Angus, Scotland, where he lives and from which he has operated several businesses.
He finished the season with 66 completions on 127 passing attempts, netting 1,027 passing yards and 11 touchdowns (1 rushing).
She has enjoyed a career in television broadcasting for over a decade, winning Associated Press Awards (1998, 2001) for interviews with former U.S.
In 2013, DDnard was selected as one of the '100 Greatest Thinkers of Thailand' by A Day Bulletin magazine, and her story was featured in the book 100 Interview The Thinker.
Arie Maliniak (Hebrew: אריה מליניאק) is a former Israeli basketball player and coach who now works as a journalist, radio broadcaster, television presenter and as a life coach.
He has performed in the Broadway and touring companies of The Who's Tommy as The Lover with Alice Ripley, and Miss Saigon.
Talman originated the role of the Witch's Father/Ozian Official in San Francisco's sit-down production of Wicked, which opened at the Orpheum Theatre on February 6, 2009, and closed on September 5, 2010.
Vale opened his first juice detox retreat in Turkey in 2005 and organises health seminars across the United Kingdom and Ireland.
She spent time volunteering and teaching meditation and spiritual practices to various organizations, studied Happiness Sciences, Hypnotherapy, NLP, Behavioral Science, and began work on the first title in what would become the Life Compass books series.
In 2014, Sears relocated to Charleston, South Carolina, after which he changed the tone of his videos from serious life coaching to satirical life coaching.
Fetuga then studied Islam under the guidance of Shaykh Ahmed Ba'biker Abu Bakr As-Sudani who encouraged him to use rap for da'wah (inviting others to Islam) and to continue using his musical talents to make Islamic music.
Kimberly Seelbrede is an American model and beauty pageant titleholder who held the title Miss USA 1981.
Her work as an organizer of the Independent political movement from 1972 to 1995 included initiating the building of many community organizations such as the New York City Unemployed and Welfare Council, the Clinton Union of Community Woman, and the NYC Union of Lesbians and Gay Men.
Martha Nibley Beck (born November 29, 1962) is an American author, life coach, speaker, and sociologist.
Withdrawal, fear, attempting to dominate, rigidity, and over-accommodation are examples of different conditioned tendency shapes.
In 2014, she was a co-speaker on Oprah's the "Life You Want Weekend" tour, which travelled to eight cities and also featured Deepak Chopra, Mark Nepo, Elizabeth Gilbert, and Rob Bell.
Prior to her transition Reed married her long-time partner (since 1981) artist, Aikido and Iaido Sensei Michele Benzamin-Miki.
Ed Montgomery is also the author of several books, including Heaven in Your Heart: And in Your Pocket Too (Charisma Media, December 1998), Breaking the Spirit of Poverty (Charisma House, March 1999), and When Heaven Is Silent (Creation House, June 2002), all available on Amazon.
Publications Burton is author of several books including Successful Women Think Differently, What's Really Holding You Back, and Happy Women Live Better, Rich Minds Rich Rewards, How Did I Get So Busy, Listen to Your Life, Why Not You?
His father, who was from New Mexico, was one of the first Mexican American detectives in the Los Angeles Police Department and later worked in a secret CIA unit where he oversaw an investigation into the death of Robert F.
She produced and appeared in the documentary The Shadow Effect (2009), and also in 3 Magic Words (2010).
Education Burton graduated from the University of Pennsylvania with a master's degree in applied positive psychology.
Life and career Vanzant was born on September 13, 1953, in the back of a taxi in Brooklyn, New York, as Rhonda Eva Harris.
"Treasuring Everyday Joy", a collection of images Franzini shot for Johnson's Baby in all 50 states.
In 2016, Vanzant was named to Oprah Winfrey's SuperSoul100 list of visionaries and influential leaders.
By his own admission, he struggled with the instrument, once stating, "I was so bad at it that teachers used to hit me with the flute.
She is the founder of The Life Class, a personal development school focused on emotional intelligence, personal insight, and meaningful change.
Burnett's book The Street-wise Guide to Buying, Improving and Selling Your Home was published in March 2019.
Career After obtaining Swiss citizenship in 1999, Estermann joined the right-wing Swiss People's Party (SVP).
After graduating from Guildford, she set up the Page One Project, a programme that offers support, advice and guidance to people from underrepresented backgrounds in the arts industry.
She was proud to appear in the film as she felt it was a career highlight to tell the story of artist Clarice Cliff.
Randy has featured in Philippine periodicals such as Woman's Journal, Men's Zone Magazine, Kerygma Magazine, Today, Philippine Star, Manila Bulletin, Smart Parenting, Manila Times, Medical Observer, Health and Family, and Health Today.
During the six-month program, he taught aikido and meditation techniques to a group of Green Berets, an experience he later chronicled in In Search of the Warrior Spirit.
They explore ways to manage emotions, overcome challenges, and cultivate both emotional and financial well-being.
Professional career San Francisco 49ers After going undrafted in the 2015 NFL draft, Thompson signed with the San Francisco 49ers on May 5, 2015.
In 2010 Clark lived with his then-girlfriend Umi (who is six months younger than him) in midtown Atlanta; he proposed on August 13, 2011 and the couple has since married.
Prior to that, it was produced at the former "brickhouse" studios where it had been produced for 5 years, and earlier at the TWiT "cottage", where it was produced for over 6 years.
As of May 22, 2017, she was working for Microsoft as a Senior Cloud Developer Advocate where she, among other things, hosted This Week in Channel 9.
She had been invited by a technology evangelist to film her Internet TV show at the mall instead of covering its debut at the Shadyside Apple store as she had originally planned.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
Linux Voice was a Linux and open source magazine (print and digital) which began publication in the UK in April 2014.
Martin was Director of Engineering for the Ubuntu Desktop team at Canonical and worked on desktop and devices before leaving the company in early 2021.
As part of the Mobile Nations network, Smartwatch Fans was the first non-mobile site under the Mobile Nations name.
During the show some advertisements for 3rd party commercial products or services are read out, by co-host Leo Laporte.
The process involved recordings made by each presenter on his own machine, as well as a backup analogue recording by Fabian.
Working under editor-in-chief Kevin Michaluk, Zeis ran the day-to-day on CrackBerry as Managing Editor.
The podcast was included on Education Technology Magazine's list of "6 Essential Podcasts for Tech Heads to Tune Into".
On May 7, 2021, the podcast expanded to include a full video format with the launch of the Waveform YouTube channel, making each episode available in both audio and video formats.
Radio affiliates "The Tech Guy" radio show was syndicated to several affiliates across America, including the show's flagship, KFI in Los Angeles, California.
Several regular guests would appear during the show via Zoom: AVSForum editor Scott Wilkinson, Dick DeBartolo of Mad Magazine, and Johnny Jet appeared on Saturdays while Chris Marquardt of Tips from the Top Floor has a Sunday segment.
Beginning on January 18, 2011, Mann has co-hosted the weekly Back to Work podcast with Dan Benjamin on 5by5, where they discuss subjects like productivity, work life, and true costs of doing business.
Reunion and revival On October 13, 2017, Rose and Albrecht released a "light Diggnation reunion" under the title of "Talking Tech", released within "The Kevin Rose Show" podcast.
Warren has interviewed many well-known members of the tech industry including Fred Wilson, venture capitalist and Jony Ive, Chief Design Officer at Apple Inc.
It featured previous episodes, as well as a live segment with Wyatt Cenac and Hallie Haglund of The Daily Show as well as Joe Randazzo, Joe Garden and Jill Morris of The Onion.
"51st thing" The shortlist selected by Harford for public vote as the 51st thing was: Credit card Glass Global Positioning System (GPS) Irrigation Pencil Spreadsheet The item selected by public vote was the credit card, announced by Harford in the episode entitled "Number 51".
After a year he became editor of Redherring.com and started writing a column about startups, which was emailed to over 150,000 subscribers every weekday.
TWiT Network Before joining TWiT as an employee, Merritt had a long-standing working relationship with former TechTV colleague Leo Laporte's network, having regularly appeared on This Week in Tech as either a guest or as a relief host.
I’ll be editorial director of the new Yahoo Tech site..." Star Trek book As a young man, Needleman wrote the book The Official Star Trek Trivia Book which was published by Pocket Books.
Media contact information is available on the Tech Nation website Academically, Bioentrepreneurship courses are throughout the university as they require the successful collaboration of multi-disciplinary expertise.
Format and distribution Waveform episodes are typically released on a weekly schedule and range from approximately 45 to 130 minutes in length, with monthly bonus episodes.
The show was a mixture of interviews and call-ins, as well as Laporte's own thoughts and opinions on current events in technology.
It sounds like life." And unlike traditional journalism, in which the reader is given only access to the final article, not the interview, Abumrad added that Radiolab's process is more transparent.
Segments/Bits Tropes Tropes are usually pointed out by the four hosts, such as sassy black female characters, wise-cracking sidekicks, false introductions, etc.
China Since its inception, Search Engine has broadcast stories pertaining to government control of the Internet in China, commented on the citizen journalism efforts in that nation, and criticized the Chinese government for the ways in which its policies restrict access to many Internet venues.
As of January 2024, the network hosts 14 podcasts; however, due to declining advertisement sales, some are being discontinued, or are only available with a Club TWiT subscription and the TWiT studio was closed in August 2024.
Work Warren began her career as a freelance writer for USA Today in 2007, where she wrote about American Idol as an "Idol Coach".
In January 2026, Warren was announced by Leo Laporte as the replacement regular co-host on MacBreak Weekly, replacing the long-standing Alex Lindsay who recently left for a full time position at Apple.
Mann was one of the hosts on the MacBreak video podcast, and a core host on the MacBreak Weekly audio podcast.
Film Sack is a weekly podcast focused on film and television created by Scott Johnson on the FrogPants Studios Network.
Ubuntu Podcast was an Ubuntu Linux news and technology podcast formed by the Ubuntu UK Local Community Team.
Each episode followed Josh and Chuck inside and outside the recording booth, combining the factual information of their podcast with humorous, fictional story lines that align with each podcast topic.
On July 2, 2024, Alex and Kevin reunited once more on episode 64 of "The Kevin Rose Show," "The Diggnation Reunion." In September 2024 the first episodes of a rebooted "Diggnation v2.0" were released, reviving the show.
The one-on-one discussions typically revolve around nuclear energy and related topics including political policy, climate change, and nuclear medicine.
Other episodes that year featured discussions with members of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission.
Josh is also a fan of The Simpsons, Firefly, Dollywood, Quentin Tarantino and shares an affinity with his cohost Bryant for the band Pavement.
The first book in the series was titled Wow in the World: The How and Wow of The Human Body and the second was titled Wow in the Wild: The Amazing World of Animals.
Launched in October 2017, episodes average around 30 minutes to an hour, each covering a single topic through original interviews, audio footage, and Rhysider's narration.
Episodes The first season of the show began with a short listing of the podcast's current sponsors, followed by a humorous fake advertisement (i.e.
Originally broadcast on Revision3, the first episode aired on July 1, 2005 and the last episode on December 30, 2011.
Until June 2011, shows were posted intermittently up to a week after their first airdate in order to meet the requirements of Laporte's Premiere contract for exclusivity purposes for the radio affiliates, and the live and taped video versions of the show required caller audio to be muted.
Hosted by Scott Johnson, Brian Ibbott, Brian Dunaway, and Randy Jordan, it features roundtable discussions on different films and occasional television episodes.
At the Center for Information Technology and Society (CITS) at the University of California, Santa Barbara, Searls is studying both the nature of infrastructure and of the Internet as a form of infrastructure.
The show's run ended in 2015, but a spiritual successor called California King was created in its wake in 2020 with the same team.
Career Jeffrey Zeldman briefly worked as a reporter for The Washington Post and ten years as an advertising copywriter before turning to web design in 1995.
Guests have included professors, business executives, politicians, diplomats, scientists, and others.
The first episode of the podcast was made available online on January 8, 2018 and featured Michael Shellenberger as the guest.
Presenters While the show had various presenters over the years, the line-up for the final 5 seasons was Alan Pope, Mark Johnson and Martin Wimpress.
Covered topics have included security vulnerabilities, firewalls, password security, spyware, rootkits, Wi-Fi, virtual private networks, and virtual machines.
In 2021, Vogt and another producer left the show following backlash critical of the work environment.
Thomas Andrew Merritt (born June 28, 1970) is an American technology journalist, writer, and broadcaster best known as the host of several podcasts.
Starting with a sound bite from the item being covered and a greeting by the hosts, a synopsis of the film will be read by voice-over actor Scott Fletcher.
The book was discussed at the 2021 Los Angeles Times Festival of Books as well as the 2021 San Antonio Book Festival.
Lawyers from TWiT believed this violated a spoken agreement between Leo Laporte and Twitter co-founder Evan Williams made in 2009, and infringed on TWiT's trademark.
He also hosted a radio show called Real Computing, and later 'Technically Speaking' on NPR, as well as a television show on TechTV (formerly ZDTV) called Silicon Spin.
Production Linux Outlaws was recorded simultaneously by the presenters in their respective homes – Hanover and Merseyside, England – and published in both the Ogg Vorbis and MP3 formats.
In 2015, a virtual reality blog called Road to VR started to syndicate all future episodes of the Voices of VR podcast on their website.
In September 2025, TBPN hired former Postmates and HQ Trivia executive Dylan Abruscato as President.
Early life Jeffrey Zeldman was born on January 12, 1955, in Queens, New York, to the robotics engineer Maurice Zeldman and his wife Phyllis Sylvia Zeldman.
On May 30, 2018, US Magistrate Judge Jaqueline Scott Corley granted Twitters' motion to dismiss the case.
Since then, More Perfect has not aired any more episodes, although reruns are still occasionally posted in the Radiolab feed.
The name was inspired by the audience communicating to Zomorodi that they listen to the show because they are interested in the "purposeful use of technology." Zomorodi released a book entitled "Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self" with St.
Microsoft's Stephen Toulouse responded in a Microsoft Security Response Center blog post the next day, saying the behavior was not intentional.
In reply to Dvorak's comments that Laporte was biased, Laporte told Dvorak "you won't ever have to worry about it again", insinuating that he never wanted Dvorak back on TWiT.
Episode 27 ("Chartbreakers") was highlighted for its investigation into the manipulation of the Apple Podcasts Top Charts through a vast industry termed as "dark podcast marketing".
In 2018, due to the success of the program, Guy Raz launched the "How I Built This Summit" at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California.
When the series premiered in April 2012, it was carried by 76 of NPR's member stations, including WHYY Philadelphia, KUOW Seattle and KOPB Portland.
On May 27, 2015 New Tech City changed its name to Note to Self, in response to listener suggestions.
David "Doc" Searls (born July 29, 1947), is an American journalist, columnist, and a widely read blogger.
Endless Thread is a podcast from Boston-based WBUR, in partnership with Reddit, that focuses on stories relating to Reddit posts.
Hosts Stuff You Should Know is hosted by two podcasters who first met while working as senior editors at HowStuffWorks.com, Josh Clark and Charles Wayne "Chuck" Bryant.
Designing with Web Standards reiterates many of the arguments made by the Web Standards Project to highlight the benefits of standards-compliant web design.
At the Berkman Center for Internet & Society he leads ProjectVRM, which guides independent software development communities working on Vendor Relationship Management (VRM).
Brown brought the issue to his own workplace, interviewing CBC's president Hubert Lacroix in reaction to a conflict between him and an anonymous critic who went by the handle "Ouimet." Producers / Contributors Jesse Brown is the host and one of the producers of Search Engine.
The first episode, a short announcement, was released on July 31, 2019, followed by the first full-length episode on August 9, 2019.
In its original format, Rose and Albrecht then discuss Digg stories from the previous week, with off-topic banter with each other and with Prager and camera operator Glenn McElhose.
The show has covered a large variety of topics, including R/wallstreetbets, QAnon, Geedis, "Rome, Sweet Rome", wrestling, and homelessness.
References External links 5by5 fireside.fm Hivelogic Bacon Method Cork'd PeepCode Playgrounder Dan Benjamin on 5by5 Archived May 8, 2014, at the Wayback Machine Interview with Dan about his Network Creation Archived March 30, 2019, at the Wayback Machine
Career Gunn's early career included work at NASA on large-scale scientific computation and global communications, with special emphasis in infrared satellite image processing, computational fluid dynamics, and global climate and weather modeling.
Hosts and correspondents Travis View has written extensively for the Washington Post on the subject of QAnon.
Guests generally include nuclear energy experts who come from various political, scientific, and business backgrounds.
In a 2007–2008 study by Multimedia Research (sponsored by the National Science Foundation), it was determined that over 95 percent of listeners reported that the science-based material featured on Radiolab was accessible.
Following that, he launched Corporate Computing magazine, and then moved on to become manager of advanced technologies for ZD Labs.
That fall, she was a featured participant in the first annual BlogWorld & New Media Expo which bills itself as the "World's Largest Social Media Conference".
Friedman calls Searls "one of the most respected technology writers in America." Searls' two academic fellowships both began in 2006.
Adam Zeis is an American writer and podcaster born in Morristown, New Jersey, on November 14, 1978, who currently serves as the Managing Editor of The Streamable.
Martin Wimpress Martin has been a Linux user since 1995 and first used the Warty Warthog release of Ubuntu.
He formerly worked for the NHS as a .NET developer before turning his back on Microsoft technologies to become an open source enthusiast.
Background and career Kim attended the University of Pennsylvania, majoring in Creative Writing and Fine Arts.
It was also broadcast in Australia on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's Radio National network.
Later on, due to a passionate cult following, Rhysider was able to enlist the help of additional writers, researchers, editors, and graphic designers.
In 2015 the winners in the software category were Scribus which was awarded £1000, GIMP was awarded £300 and Inkscape was awarded £200.
The show featured the week's top user submitted videos in comparison to Diggnation's primary focus on news articles.
In September 2011, Mann launched Roderick on the Line, a weekly conversation with musician/writer John Roderick.
After Laporte renewed his Premiere deal that month, these conditions were relaxed, and the show was allowed to be posted hours after first broadcast to TWiT, and caller audio could be heard on the live video and TWiT.am audio feeds.
The early themed episodes were not always science-related, but tackled issues such as the death penalty, religious fundamentalism and politics in Africa and the Middle East.
Andrew Manganelli, a long-time collaborator and producer for the MKBHD channel, serves as co-host, while David Imel later joined as a regular co-host.
The presenters usually speak in a family-friendly manner about their own work in the past week, discuss community news and upcoming events, talk about command-line tools and respond to listeners' feedback.
There is no involvement by the hosts of the show, but they have frequently mentioned the group and the SYSK Army on podcast episodes.
The Star Trek Connection The panelists will frequently remark upon the connection between the Star Trek universe with the film being reviewed, in the manner of Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon.
In Diggnation (Rebooted), Rose and Albrecht are joined by producer Mauricio Balvanera along with special appearances from Digg CEO Justin Mezzell and other special guests.
In April 2024, Universal International Studios acquired the rights to her planned debut novel Sublimation.
With the help of management at KFI, Premiere Networks picked up the show for syndication, and it was announced on January 27, 2007, that it would roll out nationally.
The podcast and its guests are broadly proponents of the proliferation of nuclear energy, but some guests have taken an opposing position.
Aggregators have all three of the following characteristics: direct relationship with users; zero marginal costs for serving users; and demand-driven multi-sided networks with decreasing acquisition costs.
ABC News said of the show that "Curious kids will be captivated, and you'll find it hard not to love it too." Awards Adaptation The podcast was adapted into a book series.
History How I Built This began on September 12, 2016, as a podcast where the host, NPR journalist Guy Raz, talks to innovators, entrepreneurs, and idealists, about the stories behind the movements they built.
The talks (all of which have been previously recorded and released by TED) are supplemented by follow-up interviews with the speaker, original reporting and other segments that bring the ideas to life.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
The show was also broadcast on Sirius Satellite Radio 159 and, since January 9, 2010, on Vermont Public Radio's network of stations in the United States.
The game is based on episodes from the podcast and contains categories of History, Pop Culture, Myths, Legends, & Conspiracies, Science & Tech, Humans, and SYSK Selects.
Each episode was originally broadcast on BBC World Service, with a subsequent broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and distribution as a BBC podcast.
On October 10, 2010, Revision3 launched a show from the popular gaming website Destructoid, which recaps the latest news in video games 3 times a week in studio starring employees Max Scoville and Tara Long.
Several of his articles won Honorable Mentions in the National Magazine Awards during those years."Stu Magazine" won the Silver spot in 2003.
Throughout the 2000s and 2010s, RadioTux expanded into live event coverage at German open-source conferences including the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage, LinuxTag and CeBIT.
Plus, each episode is very entertaining and the comedy always has me in fits of giggles, sometimes in really awkward situations." Bill Thompson of Bill's Movie Emporium disapproved in 2011, writing "The show tries to bring humor into the mix, and it has really good audio quality.
History In September 2013, technology journalists Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher left All Things Digital, the technology news site they had founded and developed for Dow Jones and News Corp.
The podcast was the "People's Voice Winner" at the 2017 Webby Awards as well as an Honoree for "Best Host".
It is primarily broadcast on YouTube, X, and Substack, with full episodes available on Apple Podcasts and Spotify.
They developed the show, and by January 2004, Radiolab had become an hour-long, science-themed program characterized by Abumrad's unique sound design style.
AppJudgment AppJudgment was a web show produced by Revision3 that focused on reviewing and exploring mobile apps across various platforms, including iOS, Android, and BlackBerry.
The panelists cover the content of the film or television episode, often discussing trivia regarding the film.
The first project by the new company was a documentary podcast ZigZag, which documented the early days of the company itself.
After the change of format in 2022, with the exception of Apodaca's welcome the catchphrases have mostly been dropped, with Campbell deciding to save "Welcome Back Bucket" for special occasions.
He first encountered Linux in the mid-1990s, and ran Red Hat then Debian on the desktop and server until Ubuntu Warty came out.
On October 3, 2018, the podcast started releasing additional short episodes titled Short Stuff, where they cover topics that don't warrant the length of a full episode (e.g.
History The idea of a TED radio show was first proposed in 2011 by TED's head of content distribution Deron Triff to NPR Interim President and CEO Joyce Slocum.
References Notes External links Video on YouTube Fab, Linux Outlaws Podcaster – interview on the site of Fedora.
Some shows are produced along with Leo Laporte's show, The Tech Guy and broadcast on the Premiere Radio Network as well as Sirius XM Satellite Radio.
Mann has also produced QPR: Quotidian Public Radio, an audio podcast launched in January 2009, which was billed as "audio comfort food for annoyed liberals in fleece".
Series 2 (2019) Bonus episodes The series 1 episode on the index fund was re-released with additional comments by Harford in the podcast feed to commemorate the death of John C.
Additionally, listeners are often openly encouraged on the air to contribute to the betterment of specific aspects of the show.
TWiT founder and owner Leo Laporte, in an October 2009 speech, stated that it grossed revenues of $1.5 million per year, while costs were around $350,000.
This compatibility with current mobile playback devices is the reason why the podcast uses the MP3 format.
Recode (stylized as recode; formerly Re/code) was a technology news website that focused on the business of Silicon Valley.
While formerly on KGO-AM in San Francisco, California—the metropolitan area nearest TWiT's studios—it was tape-delayed Sundays on KKSF-AM.
Recordings were usually made on Monday in a live show, using IRC and releases of the show usually occur on Wednesday.
Previously, the show was released on Friday at the same time for paid members, and Sunday at 12:01 for everyone.
The group continues to be run by three of the original four creators, as well as other listeners in administrator and moderator roles.
Brown is currently listed as part of the editorial staff on the website FordPoweredByYou.ca, a site created by Ford of Canada for bloggers to post their thoughts on the ways in which the automotive realm intersects with technology, the environment, and everyday life.
Career Thompson's career includes stints at Apple, where he interned at Apple University; Microsoft, where he worked on its Windows Apps team; and at WordPress developer Automattic as a growth engineer.
Note to Self was a podcast hosted by Manoush Zomorodi that focused on the impacts of technology on everyday life.
The Question Block, where the hosts read questions submitted by listeners and give their answers, inviting the guest to answer as well.
The podcast, which was named by Clark, began as an attempt to re-purpose some of the written content on HowStuffWorks.com.
Personal life Moira Gunn was born in Staten Island, New York, and moved with her family to California at the age of 10, settling in Menlo Park, just as Silicon Valley was becoming prominent, and Sand Hill Road was open space - now the haunt of world-renowned venture capitalists.
Nora Young often encouraged listeners to become "Spark Contributors" by participating in the active conversations on the Spark Blog, notifying the Spark Team of interesting ideas to investigate, or even recording interviews and letting Spark use them on the show.
Among Searls' contributions to the Manifesto was its first thesis, "Markets are conversations"—also the title of the Cluetrain chapter he co-wrote with David Weinberger.
The show, which was first exclusively broadcast on KFI 640 AM in Los Angeles, was picked up for syndication by Premiere Networks (then Premiere Radio Networks) in February 2007.
Content As continued from All Things Digital, Recode focuses on technology and digital media news, particularly pertaining to the business of Silicon Valley.
In recent years Martin has worked with large scale Linux infrastructure and the transmission and analytics of Black box flight data.
The podcast, which launched in 2008, educates listeners on a wide variety of topics, often using popular culture as a reference.
Zeis was the editorial director of High Yield content at Future until September 2024, working with brands such as Tom's Guide and TechRadar.
Reception Waveform has ranked among the top technology podcasts on platforms such as Apple Podcasts.
Based on a series of episodes of Note to Self from 2015, the book expands on the benefits of removing distractions to increase well-being and stimulate creativity, and includes feedback from listener responses to the podcast.
In another video segment, Internet Roundup, Chuck and Josh highlighted a couple of posts found deep in the web that they found interesting, entreating or amusing.
Among his many contributions to A List Apart, his article "To Hell with Bad Browsers," published in February 2001, has been cited as a turning point in the adoption of Cascading Style Sheets for their intended purpose of articulating layouts.
The show often played phone messages left by Spark listeners and featured comments left on the Spark Blog.
Before joining Gimlet, Vogt and Goldman hosted a technology and culture podcast called TLDR for WNYC.
Previously a co-host of CNET's Buzz Out Loud Daily Podcast with Molly Wood, and CNET's To The Rescue and the Reporters Roundtable podcast and maintains the blog Rafe's Radar.
ManClan, by Feeld and Kelly, is a deep dive into the emerging online manosphere and its various figures.
History Leo Laporte has been doing one version or another of his technology talk show since 1990, including a syndicated show originating from KGO.
Panelists The podcast is hosted by Scott Johnson, creator of FrogPants Studios and several other shows, including ExtraLife Radio.
Download This Show is an Australian weekly radio program and podcast produced by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC).
The two of them started a media company called "Stable Genius Productions", a reference to a tweet by President Donald Trump.
The profits were split between 'software' and 'projects and distros' with the top 3 winners in each category receiving a part of the total funds.
The logo design originated from a traditional logic gate symbol of an "AND gate" turned on its side.
He also co-hosted CNET's 'The Real Deal' podcast with Tom Merritt, which dealt with consumer technology.
The site also reviews new enterprises, and consumer hardware and software, and conducts original reports.
Distribution was handed over to Sony Music in April 2021, but the deal with Sony was very short lived.
Though the audio production company Defacto Sound, which is owned by Taylor, is the production headquarters for Twenty Thousand Hertz, he has said that the podcast is not intended as content marketing.
Episodes By November 2025, the podcast had released over 300 episodes, reflecting its weekly release schedule and continued growth since its launch in 2019.
In 2014, she appeared on CNN to discuss the Ebola outbreak and the role of social media in sharing information related to the epidemic.
The show had over 160 affiliates in radio markets including Los Angeles, San Diego, Houston, Phoenix and Denver.
Innovations Zeldman and Happy Cog were early advocates of standards-based web design and many of their current and former employees have greatly contributed to various initiatives on the web, including: The development of "real type on the web" via CSS and services including Typekit.
She won the Clarkesworld reader poll in the Best Short Story category for "Calf Cleaving in the Benthic Black" in 2022.
From its launch in 2008 through 2025, the podcast consistently appeared in the Top 10 rankings on Apple Podcasts and Spotify, indicating that it's one of the most popular podcasts in the world.
Formerly, Alan spent 13 years working as a system admin on German proprietary software while contributing to Ubuntu and Linux in his spare time.
Personal life She is married to television reporter Josh Robin, with whom she has two children and lives in New York City.
A longtime advocate for open-source software, he has been involved with the Linux Journal since it began publishing in 1994.
The first The Tech Guy show produced at the TWiT Brick House was on July 30, which also was the first broadcast from Leo's office set, which was built to resemble the former Cottage studio.
According to Leo, he had to find a way to keep talking about technology, and facetiously mentioned that if it wasn't for KFI green lighting the show, he would have ended up "having to talk to [his] wife about it." The show ran weekends on KFI at 11 AM.
Outside activities Previously, as with the other podcasts offered by HowStuffWorks, Stuff You Should Know had its own blog updated daily by its hosts and often featuring the same type of material found in the podcasts, often with show follow-ups.
Tips from the Top Floor is a podcast which presents tips and tricks about photography, mainly digital photography, in episodes normally ranging from 5 to 15 minutes in length and covering topics from image composition to post processing.
Her work has been collected in The Year's Best Fantasy Volume 2, The Best American Science Fiction and Fantasy 2023, and The Best American Science Fiction and Fantasy 2024.
Gunn's degrees include a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science from the University of San Francisco, a master's degree in computer science from Purdue University and a Doctor of Philosophy in mechanical engineering from Purdue.
These connections are normally an actor that has appeared in any of the Star Trek series (from the Original Series to Enterprise) or any of the eleven films.
In 2019, the podcast was named the best podcast of the year by Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant and the sixth best podcast of the year by The New Yorker.
Guests The podcast regularly features guest appearances from technology creators and industry figures.
Kim is an American speculative fiction writer and winner of the Nebula Award and Locus Award for short fiction.
The event features keynote speakers (many of whom have been featured on the podcast) and networking activities.
He also produces the Free as in Freedom podcast Format Each episode generally had a global download count of over 20000 and was often presented with both a serious attitude and a humorous bent.
In November 2019, Manoush Zomorodi, previously host of the WNYC podcast Note to Self, was named the show’s new host.
The majority of the episode is dedicated to Rose and Albrecht discussing news items as well as providing personal commentary, anecdotes and unrelated banter.
In 2010, Benjamin started 5by5 Studios, a podcast production outlet that currently produces nineteen shows, including several co-hosted shows such as Back to Work with Merlin Mann and The Ihnatko Almanac with Andy Ihnatko.
Personal life Mann started treatment for attention deficit disorder in 2008, something which he says helped his focus.
Instead of focusing on the industry of sound design exclusively, episodes focus on a variety of topics related to sound.
It provided the accounting requirements for interests in joint ventures and the reporting of joint venture assets, liabilities, income, and expenses.
Winfrey and her long-time partner Stedman Graham had discussed the idea of forming her own channel as early as 1992.
Its offerings are distributed through multiple channels such as agents, brokers, and bancassurance partnerships, as well as direct channels including telemarketing and digital platforms.
Following a government bailout of the country's largest bank at the turn of 2016 and 2017, Raiffeisen Bank Aval was the only bank in the top 5 not owned by the government of Ukraine.
The series has received three anime adaptions by Studio Deen, titled Rilu Rilu Fairilu: Yōsei no Door, Rilu Rilu Fairilu: Mahō no Kagami, and Oshiete Mahō no Pendulum: Rilu Rilu Fairilu.
Following the initial round of litigation, the second round of litigation occurred, through both the US Federal court system and the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, focused in part on the allegedly deceptive nature of the use of "Havana" in the name of a rum produced outside of Cuba.
Stoddard also claimed that the History Channel did not contribute to this phenomenon alone, but rather, it was caused by the misperception that documentaries are "objective sources of history".
Tegna, Inc., the successor to Gannett's broadcasting and digital properties, spun off Cars.com in May 2017.
History In April 2014, AT&T and the Chernin Group established Otter Media as the 50:50 joint venture to offer OTT services.
ULTRACOM — or Telecomunicaciones Ultramarinas de Puerto Rico (TUPR) in Spanish— is a telecommunications corporation that manages satellite and submarine communications cable systems connected to Puerto Rico.
Reception Critical response The show has received both positive and negative reviews because of its unique, provocative presentation and style.
Food Network is a pay television channel that airs both one-time and recurring (episodic) programs about food and cooking from the Food Network's library as well as commissioned programming developed regionally.
Products The company has the extensive contract experience in JTIDS Class 2 / 2H / 2M, the MIDS Fighter Data Link (FDL) and the MIDS Low Volume Terminal (LVT-1), with over $275 million in contracts to date and production deliveries started for MIDS LVT and FDL terminals.
Since 2016, it is completely owned by Turner Broadcasting System Latin America as VTR sold its participation in the channel to them.
It is unclear how Russian production of the SSJ-New would be affected by the deal, or how the new owners would establish a supply chain for the aircraft.
Shining a Light: A Concert for Progress on Race in America is a live benefit concert presented by A&E Networks and iHeartMedia, that aired on November 21, 2015 on six different television networks.
On August 30, 2019, the company announced that it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Taiwanese electronics manufacturer Lite-On's SSD business for US$165 million.
The company is headquartered in Daesan, Seosan, South Chungcheong Province, where it operates a large integrated refining and petrochemical complex.
Industry analysts also believe that Embraer may file suit to recover the $100–120 million it spent separating its commercial and military units, and claim lost business opportunities as orders for new jets were slow while customers were waiting for the deal to close.
Bio (stylised as bio., formerly The Biography Channel) was an Australian general entertainment channel available on Australia's Foxtel, Austar and Optus Television pay television services.
UPN ordered 36 sci-fi films to air as part of its weekly movie presentations beginning in 1998; the films were supplied by four production companies, with most of the titles coming from Paramount.
Africa The History Channel was launched on December 1, 2003, on the DStv satellite TV platform provided by MultiChoice in South Africa for Sub-Saharran Africa; it is currently on the DStv Compact Plus package.
However, in 1998, the company fell on hard times following the box-office disappointment of its production Godzilla.
After the Weinstein brothers left Miramax on September 30, 2005, the label was quietly discontinued in June 2006.
Branches: Singapore; Taiwan) TMEIC Industrial Systems India Private Limited (Hyderabad, Telangana India.
LH-Jetronic By the mid-1980s, JECS were using LH-Jetronic, and the new Bosch hotwire mass airflow meter.
IAS 31, titled Interests in Joint Ventures, was an International Accounting Standard issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) and adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In January 1989, USA debuted USA Up All Night, a showcase of low-budget feature films that aired as part of its weekend overnight schedule.
According to the experts in the total was about $450 million, but their math contradicts their prose.
Also, WMJF, a small student-run television station at Towson University just outside Baltimore, Maryland, still uses the same call letters (WMJF – Michigan J.
Programming List of programs schedule broadcast by Food Network Asia Archived 2010-07-03 at the Wayback Machine High-definition feed Food Network Asia HD is a 1080i high definition simulcast of Food Network Asia.
On 18 December 2009, the channels of Sogecable, a Prisa business, merged into the Gestevisión Telecinco, which already controlled Spain's Telecinco channel.
Arm Holdings plc is a British semiconductor and software design company based in Cambridge, England, whose primary business is the design of central processing unit (CPU) cores that implement the ARM architecture family of instruction sets.
Joint Property Interest - Each IJV participant contributes property, cash, or other properties and organizational capital for the pursuit of a common and specific business purpose.
Already in liquidation, Warner Sogefilms was handed a €2.4 million fine by the CNMC for having coordinated with other film majors to standardize their commercial policies.
In March 2012, Discovery International France took a 20% stake in Télévista to accompany the latter in its bid to obtain a TNT (Télévision numérique terrestre en France) frequency and in strengthening the Vivolta channel.
In Asia, Hanwha TotalEnergies Petrochemical's sales offices are located in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Hong Kong, Tokyo, and Nagoya.
In 2011, although the jury's scores were not televised, the scores previously given by the fans on the pageant's website were broadcast, even though these had no impact on the final result or the candidates' ranking.
The A-Class production at the plant ceased in 2020 to focus on the Mercedes-Benz GLB, caused by the market demand shifting from sedans towards SUVs.
On 15 April 2012, all Telefónica services were rebranded again to Vivo, using the same strategy of unifying all its services in a unique brand, like Movistar (Hispanic America and Spain) and O2 (rest of Europe).
He enlisted in the United States Navy in 1942 during his freshman year at Phillipsburg High School and was initially assigned to duty as a deep sea diver.
As a result of its considerable size relative to the world copper market, developments at Escondida can have dramatic effects on the world copper price as was shown by its gyrations during the strike in August 2006.
References External links Media related to CNN Chile at Wikimedia Commons Official website (in Spanish)
BAG was renamed as the Global Auto Group, and a new BMW and MINI assembly, import and distribution agreement was signed with BMW Group in November 2022.
Stewart & Stevenson Power Products Wajax Power Systems Collicutt Energy Services Antilles Power Depot Curtis Power Solutions MTU Onsite Energy Projects Oceanic Time Warner Cable Hawaii - Oceanic Time Warner currently uses MTU Onsite energy for its backup power and power generation systems.
The software developed by GuideWorks is widely deployed in Comcast digital cable systems throughout the USA, and delivers both Video On Demand and Digital Video Recorder features to consumers.
On June 20, 2018, Recode reported that AT&T was close to buying out Chernin's stake in Otter Media, on the heel of its acquisition of Time Warner (whose digital media holdings included Machinima).
Then, in mid-2005, MovieTickets.com established a ticket distribution relationship with the consignment ticket reseller PrintTixUSA, adding 20 movie exhibition companies to its ranks and boosting the total number of screens serviced nationwide to more than 10,000.
cable channel Food Network, in a joint venture between Corus, Alliance Atlantis, and Food Network U.S.
The corporation currently manages the landing points in Puerto Rico of the undersea cable systems of AMERICAS-I, AMERICAS-II, ANTILLAS I, and ARCOS-1.
Rodae (officially RODAE Automobile Craiova S.A., and later Daewoo Automobile Romania S.A.) was a joint venture between S.C.
At the time of its establishment, the plant was targeted to have an initial annual production capacity of more than 230,000 vehicles and was to create about 3,600 direct jobs by 2020.
History Lactalis Nestlé Produits Frais was formed in 2006 through the incorporation of Nestlé Produits Frais activities in Europe into the Lactalis Group through a majority-owned joint venture by Lactalis.
In 2007, Snecma and NPO Saturn built an open-air test cell in Poluevo, near Rybinsk, to handle certification tests for the SaM146.
The History Channel expanded in 1998 into tours of US landmarks with Mayflower Tours having an affiliated website (historytravel.com), History Channel Traveler, and a planned quarterly magazine.
It was created in January 1998 as a joint venture of Sogecable (Prisa) and Warner Bros., bringing the demise of Sogepaq Distribución (a previous joint venture of Prisa and Polygram) and Warner Española (the former Spanish subsidiary of Warner Bros.).
Methodological selection Over the time, Miss Universe has established different evaluation processes.
On March 4, 2019, following the reconstruction of WarnerMedia's businesses, Otter Media became part of Warner Bros.
After the breakdown of the BT/MCI relationship, it became a joint venture between BT and AT&T in 1999.
BAG had assembly and distribution partnerships with other manufacturers including Mahindra & Mahindra, Brilliance, Jinbei, and Great Wall.
Each satellites uses an X-band system for the downlink of acquired images and systems telemetry at data rates of 120 Mbit/s.
During this period, the name i-Guide became associated with the products, which gained a reputation for strong promotion of advertising similar to the ads that appear on web pages today.
November 1999 The French clutch company Valeo buys shares in Unisia JECS clutch division to gain entry to the Japanese market.
On May 6, 2011, OWN's CEO Christina Norman was removed, and replaced by Discovery executive Peter Liguori as an interim CEO.
Aside from five Houston Metro examples fitted in a 61-seat suburban configuration, all versions were fitted with transit-style seats.
SJI utilizes the new partnership taking advantage of LTL's facilities based at Frankfurt International Airport.
Staff) Bubuki Buranki (2016) Bubuki Buranki 2: The Gentle Giants of the Galaxy (2016) ID-0 (2017) BanG Dream!
(2023) Ishura (2024–2025; CG; animation production by Passione) Ave Mujica - The Die is Cast - (2025) Guilty Gear Strive: Dual Rulers (2025) Rooster Fighter (2026) BanG Dream!
GuideWorks, LLC is the joint venture of Comcast and Gemstar-TV Guide International that was formed in April 2004 for the purpose of creating navigation software (also known as Interactive Program Guides) for digital cable television.
It was founded in November 1999 in a small provisional assembling plant near to the current BAG plant.
Global Infrastructure Partners, LLC (GIP) is an American infrastructure investment fund making equity and selected debt investments across markets worldwide.
On November 1, 2016, BAMTech announced a partnership with Discovery Communications to form a European joint venture known as BAMTech Europe.
JECS Corporation (formerly Japan Electrical Control Systems Co Ltd) is an automotive components company headquartered in Isesaki, Gunma, Japan and a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi.
Rivals.com (stylized as rivals) is a network of websites that focus mainly on college football and basketball recruiting in the United States.
Although Volvo technologies were very advanced, the price was too high for many Chinese cities, at ¥800000.
Cable News Network Chile (known as CNN Chile and abbreviated as CNN CL) is a Chilean pay television news channel and news website launched on 4 December 2008.
The frequent failures of JLVs have led to criticism of the Singapore government's conceptualisation and implementation of the JLV.
Sunwin developed maintenance contracts along with their buses, allowing the new products to average an in-service rate of 98% by streamlining and removing the previously convoluted maintenance procedures.
The article also commented on the declining popularity of the Food Network whose daily ratings were reported had fallen "to an average of 544,000 people from 580,000 a year [earlier]".
During the 1980s and 1990s, rock and pop music videos broadcast on television were being defined by MTV.
When Fox Kids was renamed Jetix on 1 August 2004, Sky hadn't entered an agreement with Disney to carry Disney Channel.
Disputes Starting in July 2025 the project has been affected by a legal dispute in Chilean courts between ENAMI and Eramet over access rights in the project area.
On April 1, 2016, Shaw Media was subsumed into Corus as part of a corporate reorganization, which reunited Food Network with the active Corus channels.
Ellation will now house Rooster Teeth, Crunchyroll, and VRV, while Machinima became a unit of Fullscreen.
The company is responsible for marketing, providing after-sales support and services as well as training, design, and development input for the Sukhoi Superjet 100 and its business variant Sukhoi Business Jet (SBJ).
Content for the network was originally purchased from overseas markets and included shows such as Meat and Greet and Singapore Flavours from Mediacorp.
The two-hour concert featured performances by Eric Church, Jamie Foxx, Sia, Rhiannon Giddens, Tori Kelly, John Legend, Miguel, Pink, Jill Scott, Ed Sheeran, Bruce Springsteen, Sting, Pharrell Williams, and Zac Brown Band.
It is the only open-air test facility for this type of engine in Europe and it also provides test services for other engines.
Logo TriStar's logo features the winged horse Pegasus (either stationary or flying across the screen).
Osborne and Heather Killen conducted and presented the industry's first European consumer research on Internet Users that ultimately established the commercial potential of Online Advertising in Europe.
With the call sign ISF 63JW, operated by a crew of nine, and carrying 189 passengers, it departed at 12:00 UTC for an estimated flight duration of eight hours twenty minutes.
Final telecast Beginning in 1978, the scores issued by the selection committee were broadcast live for the first time by the CBS television network.
Its principal products are electronic control units, software, semiconductors, mechatronics, resin molding, inspection technology and material analysis.
The deal facilitated the entry of Kokuyo products, mainly paper and office stationery into the Indian market, while Camlin aimed to increase its exports to other countries.
The concession signed in Baghdad on March 14, 1925 (full text:) covered the provinces of Mosul (35,130 square miles) and Baghdad (54,540), but excluded the Basra province (53,580) and ran for 75 years.
Since then, however, MovieTickets.com had lost ground, losing sole rights to the AMC chain and Moviefone's telephone arm to rival Fandango.
Osborne founded Innovater BV that in 2003 led the launch of WiFi across Europe on behalf of the Industry Association Wi-Fi Alliance of Redwood, CA.
Zotye started building the Fiat Multipla as the Zotye Mutiplan in 2009 and an updated version of the Palio/Siena as the Zotye Z200 in 2011.
BAG was known for assembling complete knockdown kits (CKD) of a selection of BMW vehicles for the local market in its assembly plant in 6th of October City, Giza from 2004, in addition to importing other fully built BMW models as well as MINI vehicles.
It also reached an agreement with Nexstar Media Group to begin carrying WGN America in January 2021.
History Background North Sea Ferries formed in 1965 by a consortium of six European concerns (two British, two German and two Dutch) to operate a ferry service between Hull and Rotterdam Europoort.
Many of Tri-Star's productions were released on VHS by RCA/Columbia Pictures Home Video, HBO/Cannon Video, or CBS/Fox Video.
Around 30,000 up to 35,000 vehicles were manufactured annually for the Chinese market by Nanjing Fiat.
BAMTech named Kevin Swint as senior vice-president and general manager of the Disney forthcoming streaming service in January 2018 with Agnes Chu as programming executive.
After BT and AT&T's relationship broke down in 2001, Concert's assets were split between the two parties and merged into their regional operations in 2002.
Swaraj Mazda Limited has informed the Exchange that at the Board Meeting of the Company held on 1 October 2010, the Board of Directors have decided to change the name of the company from Swaraj Mazda Limited to SML Isuzu Limited.
In 1914, the company name changed to Kuroda Kokkodo, and the manufacture of accounting slips, invoices, duplicate copybooks, and letter paper began.
Advantages Many of the benefits associated with international joint ventures are that they provide companies with the opportunity to obtain new capacity and expertise and they allow companies to enter into related business or new geographic markets or obtain new technological knowledge.
College Football on USA ran from 1980 to 1986, and its telecast of the 1981 Liberty Bowl was the first college bowl game to be exclusively broadcast on cable television.
It was developed by Tribal Existance Productions Worldwide (TEP Worldwide Corporation) and was certified by NASA's radiation protection officer Randall Scott CLSO and Ino Medic Health Physics Department of NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration).
It allowed fans to purchase branded merchandise and also used for original content creation such as Great Dinners of the World and Big Break.
On 24 September 1964, a formal production contract was signed, ordered a combined lot of 160 C-160s (110 for Germany and 50 for France).
1312 Flight RAF, to provide aerial refuelling for its 1312 Flt stablemate A400M Atlas C1 (currently ZM421 since September 2024, replacing ZM417; and its former C-130 Hercules) transport aircraft, along with the four quick reaction alert (QRA) Typhoon FGR4 fighter jets of No.
Currently, the channel's biggest cross-over stars are Rachael Ray and Paula Deen, who have both taken their cable following (primarily through the series 30 Minute Meals, $40 a Day, and Paula's Best Dishes) into a syndicated talk show and Positively Paula.
Iron Chef America's host, Alton Brown, gained a cult following for his Good Eats, which mixed science, cooking and off-beat humor.
This prompted the creation of a Canadian version which would then be able to access ad revenue through commercials under Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) regulations.
In March 2016, Fujian Benz launched three V-Class models, including V260, V260 Exclusive and V260L Exclusive.
Early life and education Osborne was born in Ayr in 1957 to Matthew and Anne Osborne and grew up in Ayrshire on the west coast of Scotland.
A ceremony was held in Lobito on 4 July 2023 to mark the transfer, attended by the presidents of Angola, DR Congo, and Zambia.
This was no news to the Rover Group engineers on the MINI project, who had wanted to use Rover's K-Series engine, an older design which had similar power output and fuel efficiency, but was built next door to the proposed MINI line at Longbridge, and already had amortised its R&D.
On 30 August 2019, FEDOR successfully matched plug connectors while weightless, simulating the repair of cables on the station's exterior surface during a spacewalk.
Zaslav pressured Oprah into moving her talk show to the channel, believing that it could boost its business.
Vice News Tonight Vice News Tonight is a nightly news program that debuted on October 10, 2016, on HBO, marking a significant expansion of Vice Media's news coverage.
The robot, originally called Avatar, was funded by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and intended for rescue operations but its role was later expanded to include space missions.
Editions by host country or territory This list includes the editions of Miss Universe by host country or territory in ascending order.
In November 2024, Fubo said that it had signed a deal with NBCUniversal to bring 18 NBCU FAST channels to the platform, including Noticias Telemundo Ahora, NBC Sports, and Today All Day.
Under this program, partners lease spectrum from Verizon Wireless and connect to the company's network, and Verizon provides technical support and resources to help the rural wireless company build out its own 4G LTE network.
At its production plant in Qinkou, Fujian Benz operates a product development center which covers approximately 11,000 square meters of built-up area, as well as a 53,000-square-meter proving ground including a 1,400-meter circuit.
H2 (or History2) is a brand name owned by A+E Global Media (a joint venture between the Hearst Communications and the Walt Disney Television division of The Walt Disney Company), used for a sister TV network of History.
However, poor sales and the brand image of being a rebadged Geely led to the end of the brand in 2013.
Once the acquisition was complete, Tognum was run as a 50-50 joint venture, with Rolls-Royce merging its Bergen Marine diesel engines unit into the operation.
they provide a full range of standard banking services to private and corporate clients, as well as small and micro businesses.
Components of these plans included the formation of TriStar Television, and joining forces with Stephen J.
The first telecast, the two-hour pilot episode of Star Trek: Voyager, was an auspicious start, with 21.3 million viewers; however, Voyager would neither achieve such viewership levels again, nor would any of the series premiering on UPN's second night of broadcasting survive the season.
The building was vacated in 2022 and remaining operations moved to the nearby Manor Royal industrial park.
Wireless home phone Introduced in February 2015 as Verizon Wireless Home Phone Connect, Wireless Home Phone uses Verizon's cellular network rather than using traditional landline wires to provide home phone service.
On July 8, 2019, Luxgen signed MoU with Mongolian company AGT Auto to build its first car assembly factory in Mongolia.
The same year, members of AirTankers' cabin crew were seconded to Thomas Cook Airlines, fostering its existing relationship and facilitating training of A330 cabin crew for Thomas Cook Airlines.
She is kind and helping, but can sometimes refuse to enjoy herself and continue to work so that everything will go well.
The first batch included 110 C-160Ds for the German Air Force (Luftwaffe), 50 C-160Fs for the French Air Force, and nine C-160Zs for the South African Air Force.
Concert with MCI In June 1994 BT and MCI (who had been talking to European rivals France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom about the same idea), launched Concert Communications Services, a $1 billion joint venture between the two companies.
On 1 November 2015, the channel closed, ceasing transmission at 4 am, with selected titles moving to other Foxtel-owned channels.
History The news channel is partnered with free-to-air network Chilevisión since 2010, when Turner Broadcasting System purchased it for $145 million to Sebastian Piñera's family.
The Aerospace Logistics Technology Engineering Company (ALTEC) is an Italian aerospace company owned by the Italian Space Agency and Thales Alenia Space.
Western Digital (later Sandisk) used (and still uses) Kioxia's facilities for making its own flash memory chips.
At its peak, Cambio saw approximately 7.5 million views a month from a predominantly 13- to 34-year-old audience.
Ultra Super Pictures now owns 75.4% of Sanzigen and studio president Hiroaki Matsuura owns 16.4% of the company.
Vivo (Portuguese and Spanish for 'Live', as in Live Broadcasting, or 'Alive'), known as Vivo Brazil, is a brand of Telefônica Brasil, a subsidiary of Telefónica and the largest telecommunications company in Brazil.
This agreement was created with the guidance of Shanghai Municipal government and various national level commissions.
Axiom Space also announced in March 2020 a contract with SpaceX to fly commercial astronauts to the ISS via Falcon 9 and Crew Dragon scheduled for March 2022; the launch took place on April 8, 2022 and the crew returned on April 25.
The mechanism allows several different methods of sharing including publicly sharing your calendar, sharing your calendar with a specific Yahoo Group, and sharing your calendar with a particular Yahoo!
Prior to 2012, MovieTickets.com provided online ticketing for AMC Theatres except those cinemas originally part of the Loews Cineplex Entertainment chain, whose online ticketing is provided by Fandango due to contractual obligations in place prior to the 2005 merger of the two movie chains.
It can read calendar feeds and events syndicated from sites that make use of the published Yahoo calendar programming interfaces.
796989,000 for financing of Expansion project, repayment of loan taken from Allahabad Bank (for Expansion Project) and for general corporate purposes.
For athletes, high star rankings translate to increased scholarship offers, media exposure, and better collegiate opportunities.
As of November 2023, USA Network is available to approximately 70 million pay television households in the United States, down from its 2011 peak of 100 million households.
The launch was scheduled for November 2006, but it never came because the Nanjing Automobile Group had forced to stop the car production until the end of the year, so the collaboration was officially terminated in order.
Initially named Vista, the channel had to change its name before its launch, due to a copyright dispute with the Microsoft giant for its Windows Vista software.
Plans are to build multi-axle trucks, tractor units and refrigerated trucks within the next three years.
In the 1980s, it began assembly of Mazda-based models, such as the Laser (Mazda 323), Telstar (Mazda 626) and Festiva (Mazda 121).
A put option would protect the minority stake value, allowing Embraer to sell its shares at the same price, inflation adjusted.
In November 2007, a New York Times article stated that MSNBC's primetime lineup was tilting more to the left.
together with Coca-Cola Europacific Partners (CCEP) for $1.8 billion on a debt-free, cash-free basis.
In 2009, a composite polypropylene plant was opened in Dongguan, China, and a sales subsidiary was established in Shanghai.
Automatically read, integrate, and republish public and personal events syndicated from Eventful, Upcoming, Evite, Bookwhen, and other sites.
Heckman was once the son-in-law of Don James, the former head football coach at the University of Washington, where Heckman attended school and was later involved in a recruiting scandal.
The seven-year 2017 contract renewal for Metro Trains contained tougher requirements for punctuality, larger fines for missing targets, and penalties for station skipping, short running and skipping the City Loop.
Research & Technology Centers Chevron Phillips Chemical has two US based Research and Technology Centers.
Editions This list includes the winner, date, venue, and host country or territory, and total entrants of each Miss Universe edition since the inaugural edition in 1952.
Built by Girls (previously known as Cambio), is a New York–based organization that helps girls ages 15–22 get involved in technology by offering mentorship and guidance.
On April 27, Miramax and Lantern Capital emerged as the strongest contenders to acquire TWC's assets.
History Tata AIA Life Insurance Company Limited was licensed on 12 February 2001 and commenced operations in India on 1 April 2001.
IPC left the area in the northeast of the country where MenHall later got lucky in 1951 and left Syria entirely in 1954.
On November 6, 2018, concerning Disney's proposed acquisition of 21st Century Fox, the European Commission required Disney to sell A&E's television operations in Europe, which include the versions of H2 in the area.
The app, which purportedly allowed users to share photos of men staring at women's breasts, was widely condemned as sexist and inappropriate.
Phase A focused on establishing the program's feasibility, and Phase B looked to develop a preliminary definition for the module.
When she is casting black magic, she reverses everything and chants "Uliriaf Ulir Ulir Nn-bu Bun Redips Aps Aps.".
In March 2023, a possible deal was announced that would see UAC sell its stake in SuperJet International to an Emirati investment fund, Markab Capital Investments.
The agency worked with the manufacturer to correct many of them, but carried out some of the repairs and modifications itself, sometimes at its own expense.
In an industrial park adjacent to the Qinkou production plant, Fujian Benz operates an EMC lab, an exhaust gas test lab, and a chassis dynamometers facility, which cover a combined built-up area of around 8,000 square meters.
sales said that though it was a difficult decision to shut down the plant, "the economics of having a plant in California so far away from the supplier lines" in the Midwest "just doesn't make business sense" for Toyota.
The company also made films such as Flirting with Disaster, Heavenly Creatures, and Shakespeare in Love.
Also at chello, he led some of the very early research into broadband usage and its impact on changing lifestyles in Europe.
In total as of 2023, its portfolio companies employ approximately 100,000 people, according to the company website.
It also plans human spaceflight for government-funded and commercial astronauts engaging in in-space research, in-space manufacturing, and space exploration.
By 2008, there were other 24-hour television channels — Intereconomía TV and TVE 24h — and CNN+ was no longer the audience leader in this type of general information.
(MLE) is a manufacturer and distributor of materials handling products under the brand names Mitsubishi Forklift Trucks, TCM, Rocla, and Cat Lift Trucks.
Early music performances on TV in the 1940s and 1950s In the 1940s, musicians and filmmakers created movie shorts known as Soundies.
Oil was struck in January 1940, but development was halted during World War II and restarted at the end of 1947.
By 1948, the company had created 12 companies with concessions or exploration licences: Unsuccessful Cyprus Petroleum Development (Cyprus) Ltd obtained in April 1938 a 2-year exploration permit covering 2,000 square miles.
Prior to the formation of the joint venture, Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc developed and marketed the navigation software to Comcast and other cable operators.
The channel switched to a placeholder showing that the HD feed of 7mate would relaunch on 16 January 2020.
Programming Vivolta presented itself as "the channel of the art of everyday feminine living", since 2010 the company Televista has become beneficiary, three years after its launch.
The company was formed July 1, 2000, by merging the chemicals operations of both Chevron Corporation and Phillips Petroleum Company.
MENA In the Middle East and North Africa, the regional version of H2 is available on OSN since 1 February 2016.
(コクヨ株式会社, Kokuyo Kabushiki Gaisha) is a Japanese manufacturing company of stationery, office furniture, and office equipment.
Around 500,000 Kijang had been sold in Indonesia up to 1995, while the 1 millionth Kijang rolled out of the assembly line on 23 September 2003.
The EU antitrust investigation was set to issue findings from its preliminary review on October 4, 2019, and intended to conduct a full investigation thereafter which could last up to five months.
Cady Ferguson, Producer/Writer Tom Furr, vice president, Program Promotion, SHOWTIME/THE MOVIE CHANNEL Showtime Networks Erica Gruen, Vice President=Associate Director, Electronic Media, DFS=Dorland Worldwide Suzanne Holeton, Broadcast Service Manager, Advertising Council, Inc.
It was a 50:50 joint venture between GIP and American International Group (AIG) to acquire London City Airport for an undisclosed sum.
Repeated purges of the CPK generated growing discontent; by 1978, Cambodian soldiers were mounting a rebellion in the east.
Briefly these were: belief in a messianic prophecy, use of psychedelic drugs as sacrament, a perception of reality as multi-layered and semi-subjective, and adherence to the principles of at least one of the world's major religions.
Almost all animals and plants synthesize their own vitamin C, but humans cannot because the gene for this enzyme is defective (Pseudogene ΨGULO).
New York Feigenbaum immigrated to New York in 1891 to work on New York's first Yiddish-language socialist weekly,Di Arbeter Tsaytung (The Workman's Paper) along with the daily Dos Abend Blatt (The Evening Paper) as an associate-editor.
Proponents of the New Atheist movement have experienced some controversy and criticisms from academics and other atheists.
They say that the one god regarded as male, opposes everything related to change, sensuality, nature, feeling, and femininity.
Afghanistan, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Turkmenistan and the United Arab Emirates condemned the attack.
Similarly, the Lombard code of 643 states: Let nobody presume to kill a foreign serving maid or female slave as a witch, for it is not possible, nor ought to be believed by Christian minds.
He held visiting positions on the faculties of the University of Heidelberg in Germany and Oxford University (twice) and was a visiting researcher at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in England, the National Nuclear Physics Laboratory in Frascati, Italy, and the University of Florence in Italy.
Pascal is sceptical of cosmological arguments for God's existence and says that when religious people present such arguments they give atheists "ground for believing that the proofs of our religion are very weak".
There remains also a possibility that backpacks were hidden inside the target restaurants before detonation.
He tells the story of the trial as a story about people: the lawyers, the defendants, the townspeople, the media.
Another explicit lyric version was released in the United States with a bonus track, and another censored version was released with two bonus tracks.
Azahari was killed in a police raid on 9 November 2005 at Batu, East Java, while Noordin "has been killed after a lengthy and violent siege, Indonesia's police chief said" by "heavily armed counter-terrorism police" on 17 September 2009 at Surakarta, Central Java.
Owing to the incident at his house door, David concludes that the zombies are vulnerable to things which are taboo to Mormons, including caffeine.
Associations with violence Ancient monotheism is described as the instigator of violence in its early days because it inspired the Israelites to wage war upon the Canaanites who believed in multiple gods.
The color is a reference to the red pill, which symbolizes acceptance of and the ability to see truth, as established early in the first Matrix film.
He was, during that time, the primary public speaker and debater for the Southern California branch of the California Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League.
Mahdists in Sudan During the 1870s, European initiatives against the slave trade caused an economic crisis in northern Sudan, precipitating the rise of Mahdist forces.
Each new conviction reinforced the beliefs in the methods (torture and pointed interrogation) being used to solicit confessions and in the list of accusations to which the accused confessed.
Klassen wrote, "Furthermore, in looking up the word in Webster's dictionary I found the term 'nigger' very descriptive: 'a vulgar, offensive term of hostility and contempt for the black man'.
Maries, Idaho, Wotansvolk rapidly evolved into "a dynamic propaganda center that spread its message throughout the United States and abroad".
Because her due date is after graduation, she opts to hide the pregnancy from her classmates and her mother, Lillian, who is covertly dating the school's principal, Pastor Skip.
According to a Süddeutsche Zeitung interview in April 2017, she frequently receives death threats from conservative Muslims, and after she was pregnant, the Muslim threats also included beating her to cause a miscarriage.
Idle, in his role as a "greasy" compère, reacts with horror and attempts to have Harrison removed from the studio.
Senator Hanson, I am not going to pretend to ignore the stunt that you have tried to pull today by arriving in the Chamber dressed in a burka when we all know that you are not an adherent of the Islamic faith.
In accordance with most PBS member stations' non-commercial educational licenses, the special was presented on PBS without commercial interruption, with an underwriting message from Apple being the only advertising.
German band Die Ärzte, who supported Kiss in 1996, recorded a German version of the song in 1994 for the tribute album Kiss My Ass: Classic Kiss Regrooved.
New Atheism, sometimes referred to as scientific atheism, is a 21st-century movement attributed to some atheist academics, writers, scientists, and philosophers opposed to superstition, religion, and irrationalism.
New Consensus In 1988, Nugent co-founded the New Consensus peace group with his partner Anne Holliday and Michael Fitzpatrick.
His final offer of 40 percent of "My Sweet Lord"'s US composer's and publisher's royalties, along with a stipulation that he retain copyright for his song, was viewed as a "good one" by Bright's legal representation, yet the offer was rejected.
Sortilege Sortilege, or practice of casting lots and interpreting the results produced by chance (qurʿa), was used both to predict the future, and "as a means of determining a course of action or deciding between courses of action".
The Index Librorum Prohibitorum forbade its printing or reading, as it conflicts with the orthodoxy of the Catholic Church.
One afternoon, while swimming in his pool, Mary's boyfriend Dean Withers confesses to her that he suspects he is gay.
Two variations were released in the United States with thirteen tracks, one version with explicit lyrics and the other with censored lyrics.
She was chair of the Junge Union, the youth organization of the CDU (Conservative Party), in Wilnsdorf in Central Germany.
It's amazing that, in 1992, one of the most powerful men in the world can reduce political rhetoric to that level." The song features the guitar playing of Jeff Beck.
It defends free thought and free expression in general, and also contains Voltaire's thoughts on the ongoing campaign for democracy in Geneva, where he supported greater power for the citizens.
At 500 pages this excellent anthology is only just portable, but it is the perfect Christmas stocking-filler for the atheist in your life.
Pierce describes it as a "romantic suspense novel" that is "at least a borderline case" of science fiction, specifically American libertarian science fiction based on its political themes.
Sipus walked out of the interview, accusing Flemming of misrepresenting himself and his reasons for the interview.
The video then cuts back and forth throughout human history, depicting man's primitive, violent nature that has remained essentially unchanged over the centuries.
Cain witnesses God's foiling the erection of the Tower of Babylon, followed by God sending a storm to utterly demolish the unfinished Tower.
The American Civil Liberties Union argues that government-funded displays of Christmas imagery and traditions violate the U.S.
Kowalewicz recounting the song's backstory with MuchMusic's Sarah Taylor, It's from a story I read about Boston priest, John Geoghan who had been arrested for child abuse and the church kept moving him from parish to parish.
The song has also appeared on several other ELP and Christmas compilation albums including a 1995 EP titled I Believe in Father Christmas, which includes Lake's original single as well as the Works Volume II version.
It was the first solo single by a Beatle to reach the top, and the biggest seller by any of the four throughout the 1970s.
They were initiatory secret societies inspired by Murray's 'witch cult' theory and historical paganism.
See also List of submissions to the 57th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film List of Argentine submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film References External links Camila at IMDb
Telegram & Gazette's Craig Semon said it is a lament on "his sorrowful existence and how his life has been plagued with nothing but heartache".
In particular, he recognised that certain patterns of embryological development could lead to the success of a related group of species in filling varied ecological niches, though he emphasised that this should not be confused with group selection.
It was likely differentiated from measles and other similar diseases by authors in late antiquity writing in Medieval Greek and Syriac, whose works were known to Thabit and al-Razi.
In his book Rush, Rock Music and the Middle Class: Dreaming in Middletown, Chris McDonald describes Lifeson's play as a "searing, rapid-fire" guitar solo.
In a mixed review, academic Peter Dendle wrote that "not every gag in the horror-comedy hits home, but the boldness of the movie's premise goes a long way." Awards The film won the audience award at Seattle's True Independent Film Festival.
Katha Sagar featured adaptations of stories by international authors including Katherine Mansfield, Leo Tolstoy, O.
Two of Brand's friends worked as production assistants while Gordon Gronbach, a freelance videographer, shot the video.
"What God Wants, Part I" is the first song in a series of songs written and released by former Pink Floyd bassist, Roger Waters on his third solo studio album, Amused to Death (1992).
One high-profile protest involved invading the stage of Heidi Klum's television casting show Germany's Next Topmodel during the finale of cycle 8 sporting the slogan "Heidi horror picture show" as a critique of the beauty ideal propagated by the fashion industry.
"The Marquis de Fumerol" ( French: "Le Marquis de Fumerol") is a short story by French author Guy de Maupassant, first published in the newspaper Gil Blas on January 17, 1887.
Meanwhile, Venia’s friend with the impaired walk seeks to deepen his relationship with Venia by asking Venia to repeat the healing exercise from the other day, and when that fails, they go down to the shore of a local lake, where he kisses Venia on the mouth to express his sexual attraction to him.
"Freewill" is the second track on the 1980 album Permanent Waves by Canadian progressive rock band Rush.
Venia turns to reading the Bible selectively and intensely in seeking guidance and solace in response to his changed family circumstances.
Based on a December 16, 2023 survey conducted by Nikkei Entertainment, the combined fanbase of the Shin Megami Tensei and Persona series within Japan has an average age of 32 years, and a male-to-female ratio that skews 40:60.
In a 2001 review, Greg Kot of the Chicago Tribune said that "My Sweet Lord" serves as the entrance to Spector's "cathedral of sound" on All Things Must Pass, adding that although Harrison lost the lawsuit, the song's "towering majesty ...
Returning to the United States Dawkins visits the Hell-House Outreach Programme, an organisation that uses hell for "moral policing", producing videos aimed at twelve-year-olds.
"What God Wants" is separated into three parts, similar to Pink Floyd's earlier "Another Brick in the Wall".
He has addressed several United Nations human rights reviews in Geneva, Switzerland, and OSCE Human Dimension Implementation Meetings in Warsaw, Poland.
The mother of the family, Brandla, born 20 February 1903 in Brawa, was arrested for being Jewish, held at Drancy and then deported by the convoy 11 of 27 July 1942 to Auschwitz.
The album appeared on the Billboard 200, remained there for thirteen weeks and peaked at 28 on December 1, 2001.
With the assistance of the leader of his church, Reverend David "Dave" Hill, Josh prepares for the assignment.
Harrison's posthumous compilation Early Takes: Volume 1 (2012) includes a demo version of the song, recorded early in the 1970 sessions for All Things Must Pass.
Sergeant wrote that it became scarce even in libraries, and readers in the 1950s were likely to have to borrow it from the chief librarian and be watched while reading it.
Accordingly, when the doctors of the Church perceived that the Christians had a leaning to this festival, they took counsel and resolved that the true Nativity should be solemnised on that day.
It was released as a single in March 1995 and is also available on the band's live albums Hellalive and Machine Fucking Head Live.
Vedder had recorded episodes of the series off HBO onto a VHS, and used the Avid video editing software to edit in the music.
After some coaxing, she and Venia exchange several romantic kisses in the empty classroom, after which Venia guiltily recoils.
In 1986, the novel won the Locus Award for Best First Novel, and placed #15 in the poll for the Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel.
Spinoza is the greatest of modern philosophers, because he is the first philosopher who deals with the soul and the body as one, not as two separate things.
To burn a book of argument is to say: 'We do not have enough wit to reply to it.'" He comments that England, despite being a monarchy, has a more enlightened population than other countries because the right to publish is protected by law.
Career Zuckerman is a professor of sociology and secular studies at Pitzer College in Claremont, California.
Other critics have associated monotheism with intolerance, patriarchal structures, moral rigidity, and violence.
Soltau | 31 original drawings and newly colored etchings with excerpts from the English translation of the burlesque poem by Soltau." VDG Weimar, Weimar 2016.
After doing the same to the other Whos' houses, the Grinch takes his sleigh to the peak of Mount Crumpit and prepares to dump all of the stolen items into an abyss.
Biblical studies Source criticism, as the term is used in biblical criticism, refers to the attempt to establish the sources used by the author and/or redactor of the final text.
Thus she had responsibilities at the National Office of the Socialist Party, responsible for the Socialist Women, was a dignitary of the Droit Humain, a mixed Masonic lodge.
See also Women's rights in Ukraine Nudity and protest Notes References External links Anna Hutsol - YouTube Personal blog, Echo of Moscow (in Russian).
The song was used in the episode "Salvage" on the sixth season of television series Sons of Anarchy.
government and the Western world is dominated by "traitors and Jews working towards the establishment of a New World Order".
They regularly extorted money and kidnapped people, both the religious and laity, from whom they would demand ransoms; Grandisson suggests they robbed from each other's houses when the opportunity presented itself.
Peart stated that the two are the same, with the band taking "great care to make the lyric sheets accurate", but that fans sometime mis-hear the lyrics and believe the printed lyrics are incorrect.
Once on board the Ark, Cain proceeds to systematically kill Noah's sons, their wives and Noah's wife (after first having had sex with all the women).
The song lyrics are about, in part, the psychedelic experience as brought on by drugs including marijuana, LSD, psilocybin and DMT.
This edition of the magazine is notable in that it features no nudity and that it is the first Playboy to be published in a Muslim-majority country since a Turkish edition that was discontinued in the mid-1990s.
שטיינער וואס פאלען פון הימעל : א פאפולערע ערקלעהרונג וועגען מעטעאריטען, שטערנשנופפען און קאמעטען [Stones that descend from Heaven: A popular exploration of meteorites, strollers and comets].
"Turtles All the Way Down" is a song written and recorded by American country music artist Sturgill Simpson.
Personal life Edwin Kagin was born in Greenville, South Carolina, to a Presbyterian minister father who had been born in Kentucky and a Daughters of the American Revolution mother who had been born in South Carolina.
She wanted to write a 12-part monthly series on famous women in American, including Eddy, and had gone to Eddy's home to ask for an interview but was denied.
Natural selection can leave animals behaving in detrimental ways when they encounter a supernormal stimulus - like a moth flying into a flame.
Despite awareness of his behaviour, the Boston archdiocese had enabled the continued abuse through negligence.
In Islamic literature there are detailed treatises that include "entire exorcism rites and purification rituals for the destruction of amulets and other magical items" to neutralize black magic.
15 activists marched topless from the metro station Château Rouge to the Lavoir Moderne Parisien, where their new headquarters are located, and organized a press conference there.
Fleeing the law, they end up in an intolerant religious community that holds the secret of the apocalypse; a botched magical spell reveals it to be a zombie apocalypse.
Personnel Frank Zappa – guitar, vocals Ray Collins – vocals Jimmy Carl Black – drums Roy Estrada – bass guitar Elliot Ingber – guitar with: Eugene Di Novi – piano Gene Estes – percussion Neil LeVang – guitar Covers Camper Van Beethoven – 2000 rarities compilation, Camper Van Beethoven Is Dead.
It is the cult of that supreme being and the belief that his or her wishes have been made known or can be determined." He mentions great critics such as Thomas Jefferson and Thomas Paine, who perhaps paradoxically regarded religion as an insult to God.
Richard Carrier is an atheist activist and scholarly writer on the Christ Myth Theory, who holds a PhD in ancient history from Columbia University.
Indeed many of us belong to religious denominations, and we respect and support individuals' rights to put evolution, the origins of the universe, and life, into a context that they understand as defined by their religion.
Der Spiegel quoted his warning to all educators: We will not permit our youth, who are today still healthy, and our freedom-based Western culture, to be undermined by such softening-up tactics, which are clearly controlled from the East, and made 'Ready for conquest' by Communism.
Zuckerman's Living the Secular Life: New Answers to Old Questions was released in 2014 and reviewed in The New York Times by Susan Jacoby.
He was a founding member in 1991 of the Free Inquiry Group, Inc., (FIG) of Greater Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky and served as its vice president.
The sixth chapter, "The God Hypothesis", was later reprinted in Christopher Hitchens' anthology The Portable Atheist.
In the Nuwaubian telling of the Yakub myth, 17 million years before the first of many "intergalactic battles", the ancestors of black people (given a variety of names, including Riziquians) were gods, but subservient to the "Supreme God".
The weakness of the book is related to those colourful characters — the chronicle of the trial itself never really seemed to come alive for me in the same way that his telling of the Scopes trial did." == References ==
Plot Scrooge, the head of an unnamed advertising agency, has gathered a group of clients to discuss tying their products into Christmas.
Animosity is the third studio album by the American rock band Sevendust, released on November 13, 2001, through TVT Records.
He then moved to Los Angeles on a Hughes Aircraft Company fellowship, earning a Master of Science and PhD in physics from UCLA.
Dawkins then describes his experiences with a more sophisticated computer simulation of artificial selection implemented in a program also called The Blind Watchmaker, which was sold separately as a teaching aid.
Australian Labor Party Senator and Leader of the Government Penny Wong condemned Hanson, borrowing words from the similar condemnation made by Brandis in 2017.
In his interview with Taylor, Kowalewicz explained that the song began when guitarist, Ian D'Sa played a sinister-sounding riff during a writing session, prompting Kowalewicz to ask himself, "What is the worst or most evil thing a person could do to another?" as a starting point for the lyrics.
In The Tablet, Keith Ward criticised Dawkins for what he considered to be an indiscriminate and simplistic approach to religion.
Only A Theory: Evolution and the Battle for America's Soul is a 2008 book by the American cell biologist and Roman Catholic Kenneth R.
He recommended as a laxative, "7 drams of dried violet flowers with 20 pears, macerated and well mixed, then strained.
Despite widespread condemnation, former Nationals leader and deputy prime minister Barnaby Joyce expressed his support, as did senator Ralph Babet.
It was released in April 2014 as the second single from his album Metamodern Sounds in Country Music.
300, ISBN 978-1-61614-753-2, archived from the original on 2014-08-12, retrieved 2014-07-18 God and the Multiverse, Prometheus Books, 2014, p.
This notion of Īśvara appears to be consistent with Yogasūtras, another major work in the Samkhya tradition.
Riahi and Arman Riahi, Austria / Switzerland / Germany, 2013, world premiere at Copenhagen International Documentary Festival on 13 November 2013.
Content The pamphlet includes critical commentary on Jean-Jacques Rousseau's The Social Contract and Montesquieu's The Spirit of the Laws.
In archaeology, radiocarbon dating is an important technique to establish the age of information sources.
The rally was sponsored by major atheistic and secular organizations of the United States and was regarded as a "Woodstock for atheists and skeptics".
He describes meeting and arguing with the deniers and lays out their arguments then shows evidence to support his own statements.
He found what he called a "don't ask, don't tell" conspiracy because believers did not want to hear of loss of faith.
The Church's endeavors to assert its dominance over alternative belief systems led to the suppression of various magical methodologies.
When the Salvation Army comes to the house after her parents decide to donate his belongings, Brooke is surprised to discover that he had been studying The Holy Bible.
Amy confronts the Newsboys in their dressing room but asks them to help guide her in converting to Christianity.
One of the more violent protests in Jakarta caused the owner of the ASEAN Aceh Fertilizer Building, where the Playboy office was located, to evict Velvet Silver Media.
It was released on July 11, 2013 as a digital download as the lead single from their tenth studio album Lightning Bolt.
The report of the commission of inquiry was published in February 2014 and suggested Kim could "possibly" be made accountable for crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court.
Content The film is a documentary on the activities of FEMEN, a Ukrainian feminist movement known for topless protests.
Twitching eyelids, for example, would not indicate a nervous personality but might foretell "the success or failure of an enterprise".
In other Muslim-majority countries, such as Algeria, Gaza Strip, the Maldives, Malaysia, Pakistan, Qatar, Somalia, Sudan, and Syria, it is illegal.
The Voldemort effect is a social phenomenon where people are fearful of naming someone, to speak of something or acknowledge it exists, and therefore derail any attempt to confront it.
The Heathen's Guide to World Religions is a book by Kingston, Ontario-based William Hopper (1966–2017).
Also in January 2016, a Dinkoist in California won the right to have a license plate for his car with Dinkan written on it, in recognition of his belief.
Seuss and Helen took a month-long vacation to Hawaii, where he checked and returned the book's galley proof.
Harold Bloom, in his book The American Religion, argues that Yakub combines elements of the biblical God and the Gnostic concept of the Demiurge, saying that "Yakub has an irksome memorability as a crude but pungent Gnostic Demiurge".
4 in its article "25 Best Country Songs of 2014." It praised the lyrics, saying that ""Turtles All the Way Down" is many things.
Gory Gory Hallelujah is a 2003 American comedy horror musical film directed by Sue Corcoran, written by Angie Louise, and starring Tim Gouran, Angie Louise, Jeff Gilbert, Todd Licea, Keith Winsted, Jason Collins, and Joseph Franklin.
In medieval European folklore and literature Foxes in general have the reputation of tricksters in traditional European folklore.
He takes ritual jabs at such old debunker punching bags as ESP and UFOs (through UFOlogy's newest twist, alien abduction of humans).
In this work he raised the method of textual criticism used in the late eighteenth century, particularly in classical philology to the standard method of scientific historical writing.
"I want to see them radically laying down their lives for the gospel, as they are over in Pakistan and Israel and Palestine." In one scene shot at Christ Triumphant Church, a woman brings a life-sized cutout of George W.
The wormhole network was built by unknown precursors, and hidden messages exist in transcendental numbers like pi.
Political response Local President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono condemned the blasts as a "criminal act" and called for an urgent meeting with Indonesian security officials.
Finally, Job gets back an even greater wealth than he had before, and has new seven sons and three daughters instead of the ones killed by Satan - at which Cain wonders if children are just interchangeable, and if having new ones completely makes up for the wanton killing of the earlier ones.
under the leadership of Viktor Sviatsky, is actually part of the past, since he was ejected from the movement in 2012.
His decision to leave may also have been because he had failed his second-year exams two years in a row and thus lost his scholarship.
trumpets its connections to information theory, biochemistry and molecular biology, Miller concludes, as did Judge John Jones in Kitzmiller v.
FEMEN France is the French branch of FEMEN (Ukrainian: Фемен), a feminist protest group founded in Ukraine in 2008 and famous for organizing topless protests.
Joseph Jacobs, while seeing an origin in Lorraine, traces classical, German, and "ancient northern folk-lore" elements within the Reynard stories.
Thanksgiving, concurrent with Black Friday; elsewhere, it is held the following day, which is also the last Saturday of November.
Bachmann had begun the adaptation eight years earlier but the theaters he worked for prior to Schauspiel Köln were dismissive of the idea.
Zuckerman has commented on the rise of "Jews of no religion", people who identify as being wholly or partially Jewish while having no religion.
The controversy surrounding Playboy in Indonesia punctuated the issue of pornography legislation opposed by prominent Indonesian feminists, including Kamala Chandrakirana, chairwoman of the National Commission on Violence Against Women, who spoke openly in support of Playboy Indonesia.
Since 2009 she has been acting in the popular Spanish TV series La que se avecina, playing the part of Estela Reynolds, the eccentric mother of Lola.
Sam Harris neuroscientist, philosopher, and author of The End of Faith, Letter to a Christian Nation, and The Moral Landscape.
Apollinaire published a memoir of Konica in the Mercure de France on 1 May 1912, which begins: "Of the people I have met and whom I remember with the greatest pleasure, Faik Bey Konica is one of the most unusual".
Hutsol requested for asylum in Switzerland in 2013, but the authorities rejected her request on 27 March 2014.
Walden – additional keyboards, programming Production and management Tony Adams – drum technician Orville Almon Jr.
There he continued to edit and publish, under the pseudonym Trank Spiro Beg, the dual language (French/Albanian) periodical Albania that he had founded in Brussels in 1897.
In the nick of time, they are led inside by armor-clad bartender Piper McKenzie, who tells them that Linderman was zombified during a zombie riot in the bar and is now kept locked up in a side room because she cannot bring herself to finish him off.
At the festival photocall the activists appeared topless, as is usual for their protests Critical reception Glenn Dunks and Christopher Schobert of The Playlist on IndieWire gave the film positive reviews.
In the previous parliamentary term, she was also joined by Tasmanian senator Jacqui Lambie in calls for a burqa ban.
Geert Wilders appeared via video link criticising "politicians who don't share our values and foolishly declare all cultures are equal".
ISBN 831008515X Zakochany obłok: baśń turecka / Nâzım Hikmet, Małgorzata Łabęcka-Koecherowa (Trans.), Krajowa Agencja Wydawnicza, 1987.
Paris: Librairie Hachette.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) Notes References External links "Pensées" (PDF).
"I would even go so far as to say that everything in the film is something I experienced or researched", Dannelly said.
Criticism The Reason Rally elicited criticism for the antitheist rhetoric and tone that some speakers employed.
That envisioned work is often referred to as the Apology for the Christian Religion, although Pascal never used that title.
Matters become complicated when the biology teacher makes further protests to the administration about Venia’s seeming to get away with his zealous readings of the Bible in her classroom, which she sees as disruptive for the other students and to her classroom instruction.
Ran discovered Balaban's talent in drawing, gave all his paint and brushes to him, and encouraged him to continue with painting.
Jack then tells Stan that he realizes the importance of family, saying he's proud of Stan and that the world needs Krampus, then dies.
God waits for Noah and his family to come out - but Cain lets out the animals and then confronts God, telling him that the humans are all dead, and thus there will be no new Humanity to populate the Earth after the Deluge.
The song reached number six in Canada and topped the Canadian Adult Contemporary chart for three weeks.
It wasn't until after the exile that the Quranic revelations began to adopt a more martial perspective.
An anonymous author of the Centre for Christian Apologetics, Scholarship and Education of the New College, University of New South Wales also described the song as being both "blasphemous, and offensive to Christian sensibilities" and "a meditation on desire".
Music video The music video for "Red Dress" was directed, produced, choreographed, and edited by Brand, who described the video as a "cinematically holistic portrayal of judgement".
It features a "half-assed" guitar solo and off-key vocals from Brand, who stated that the song's vocals "don't seem to quite fit" and "make people uncomfortable".
Dinkan was one of the earliest superhero characters created in India and it quickly became popular among children.
He said that he accepted the award on behalf of all of the work done by everybody in Atheist Ireland.
He explores various positions on the mind-body problem but states that the solution may lie beyond the capabilities of human reason.
Political career Klassen served Broward County in the Florida House of Representatives from November 1966 – March 1967, running on an anti-busing, anti-government platform.
Growing recognition On January 3, 2016, a group of dinkoists, calling themselves Mooshikasena (the Rat Army), went to protest in front of actor Dileep's Dhe Puttu Restaurant to protest his film titled Professor Dinkan on the grounds that it offended their religious sentiments.
On 13 February 2020, the Q Society stated that it would deregister itself due to a considerable lack of financial support, being unable to cover basic administration costs, effective from 30 June 2020.
Reception On release, Rolling Stone critic Ben Gerson described "Awaiting on You All" as "a Lesley Gore rave-up in which George manages to rhyme 'visas' with 'Jesus'".
related that he asked Ramana, "This thing called moksha, can you give it to me?" – to which Ramana Maharshi replied, "I can give it, but can you take it?".
In November 1977, Burma's Ne Win was the first foreign head of government to visit Democratic Kampuchea, followed soon after by Romania's Nicolae Ceaușescu.
The Varieties of Scientific Experience: A Personal View of the Search for God is a book collecting transcribed talks on the subject of natural theology that astronomer Carl Sagan delivered in 1985 at the University of Glasgow as part of the Gifford Lectures.
Scheduled for release on March 3 as a launch title, last-minute adjustments required the company to delay it until March 17.
Plot After they each fail their audition for Jesus in a play, a Jew, a militant African American, a feminist, and a bisexual hippie go on a road trip.
The player defeats monsters, using Isaac's tears as projectiles, and collects items which modify his appearance, attributes, and abilities, potentially creating powerful combinations.
In mycology, the term heteroecious has also been used for parasitic fungi with multiple hosts, and the terms can be used synonymously.
The first ancestral hyenas were likely similar to the modern African civet; one of the earliest hyena species described, Plioviverrops, was a lithe, civet-like animal that inhabited Eurasia 20–22 million years ago, and is identifiable as a hyaenid by the structure of the middle ear and dentition.
Argus monitors will often "tripod", raising up on their hind legs and supporting themselves with their tail.
Weaknesses Closed ecological systems often remain unstable due to low biodiversity, as they contain far less species than natural ecosystems.
Contrasting assumptions about size asymmetry characterise the two leading and competing theories in plant ecology, the R* theory and the CSR theory.
Community protocols are gaining recognition in international negotiations on access and benefit-sharing of genetic resources and reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD), endogenous development practice, and traditional health care.
Vladimir Pešić (born 1973) is a scientist from Montenegro, and a biologist who is an expert on Hydrachnidiae, the water mites.
Barnosky acknowledges in the 2001 paper that the Court Jester hypothesis is not necessarily inconsistent with the Red Queen hypothesis: "Indeed, as Ned Johnson remarked (after listening to a lecture expressing these ideas), Maybe it is time for the Court Jester to marry the Red Queen.
As a self-maintaining organism, Earth would have an immune system of some sort in order to maintain its health.
Regions Coniferous temperate evergreen forests are found largely in the temperate mid-latitudes of Siberia, Canada, Australia, Africa, Scandinavia, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Amazon and Orinoco basins of South America, the Himalayas and Western Ghats of India and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.
The Q10 coefficient represents the degree of temperature dependence a muscle exhibits as measured by contraction rates.
The same can be said for researchers in a number of fields who contributed to ecological thought well into the 1940s without avowedly being ecologists.
CSBI is run by its member associations and volunteers from member companies and multilateral financing institutions, with the support of a part-time coordinator.
Subsequent multigene analysis using nuclear DNA by Jønsson and colleagues in 2012 clarified that the forest and little raven are each other's closest relative.
Reintroduction efforts, also referred to as translocation, are complex and a common source of complication is how animals behave upon release.
Studies and research have linked Calliphora and Lucilia to vectors of causal agents of bacterial infections.
The easily detected warning is a primary defence mechanism, and the non-visible defences are secondary.
Anoxygenic phototrophy and oxygenic photosynthesis both require electron donors, with all known forms of anoxygenic phototrophy relying on reaction center electron acceptors with reduction potentials around 250-500 mV.
“...plane identification—the aircraft spotting technique—was based on Roger’s bird identification method-the Peterson system.”.
In such soils which have a high vegetation content water is able to travel along the 'pipes', allowing water to travel faster than throughflow.
The study concluded: Data on millions of outpatient visits of older Americans linked to data on daily rainfall showed no relation between rainfall and outpatient visits for joint or back pain...
Wild dogs are often heard howling during the breeding season which, for pure dingoes, occurs once a year.
By the 1980s, the peak population had reached an estimated 60–70 million, but is now down to an estimated 30 million due to control measures.
The cycle of the dome can be explained as four wind forcing stages: coastal shoaling of the thermocline off the Gulf of Papagayo in February–April, separation from the coast during May–June, countercurrent thermocline ridging during July–November and deepening during December–January.
Awards In 2003, she was one of 33 Laureates of the Women's World Summit Foundation Prize for Women's Creativity in Rural Life.
For plants, minimizing adaptation to captivity is usually achieved by sourcing plant material from a seed bank, where individuals are preserved as wild-collected seeds, and have not had the chance to adapt to conditions in captivity.
He alongside Michael Lynch, introduced regression estimators for joint estimation of two-gene and four-gene coefficients of relationship using codominant molecular markers in randomly mating populations.
Fragmented habitats can be caused by geological or human activity, and particularly affect larger animals that roam and hunt across large territories, such as apex predators.
For many harvesting seasons, indigenous people have shifted their activity months earlier due to impacts from climate change, adaptations that becomes more important in the face of a rapidly changing climate.
Males appear to lack these glands, but those associated with its head are morphologically similar to those found in workers, but these glands may act differently.
Biogeography The environment in tropical deserts is harsh as well as barren; only certain plants and animals with special behavioral and physical mechanisms can live there.
The lack of these elements will cause a growth limitation factor in the said microsite and also survival issues.
These behaviors are phenotypic outcomes of god concepts that are ultimately subject to natural selection.
Amphotropic Pathogen Examples Amphotropic Murine Leukemia Virus Coxiella burnetii Chlamydia See also Tropism, a list of tropisms Ecotropism, indicating a narrow host range References == External links ==
Other issues raised include the defining of conservation strictly in terms of location, and the naming of single species as important to the environment rather than the interconnectivity between species and doesn't prioritize areas that are dense in biological diversity.
It has become the near-universally accepted standard, first in the United States and Europe and then around the world.
The two species can be distinguished from each other through morphological examinations of the head, thorax, and postpetiole.
In 2022, Urban Sky was awarded a National Science Foundation grant to develop balloon placement technologies.
See also Biome Line notes References Kuchler, A(ugust) William [Wilhelm] (Germany-United States 1907-1999) Ann Watkins, Terrestrial vegetation of the U.S.
The actual procedures of this project involve inexpensive collection equipment (for easy universal participation).
It is obvious now from the models, the data, and the theory that there is no one overarching effect of diversity on productivity.
Additionally, the environmental toll that may arise from the introduction of a new species may be so disruptive that the ecosystem is no longer able to sustain certain populations.
The court jester hypothesis is used in reference to the idea that abiotic forces (including climate), rather than biotic competition between species, function as a major driving force behind the processes in evolution which produce speciation.
Drift load increases more rapidly in small populations, so factors that tend to maintain large populations such as high reproductive rates and low levels of biotic and abiotic stress will reduce the incidence of drift load.
Other research, unconcerned with the effects of diversity, has demonstrated strong top-down forcing of ecosystems (see keystone species).
Nature Ecology & Evolution is an online-only monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Nature Portfolio covering all aspects of research on ecology and evolutionary biology.
Nurse logs may therefore provide some measure of protection from these pathogens, thus promoting greater seedling survivorship.
Their performance in filtration is established and their application as aquacultural feed is being researched.
The isolation of South America had an abrupt end some few million years ago when the Isthmus of Panama was formed, allowing small scale migration of animals that would result in the Great American Interchange which caused many marsupials such as Thylacosmilus to go extinct.
SAD is one of the most basic measurements in ecology and is used very often, therefore many different methods of measurement and analysis have developed.
Nicrophorini breed on small animal carrion and will bury themselves and their food to rear their offspring in a bi-parental manner.
As of 2014, she is a Canada Research Chair in Protist Ecology at the University of British Columbia.
The transition from introduction, to establishment and to invasion has been described in the context of plants.
Other evergreen forests (or tropical rainforests) are usually found in areas receiving more than 234 cm (92 in) of rainfall and having a monthly mean temperature of 20 °C (68 °F) or higher in the coldest months.
If a local stock or population becomes extinct, the species as a whole has not become extinct, but extirpated from that local area.
Individual ants within the colony network are likely to have many connections with one another – making the network denser and non-hierarchical.
Lee or Derek Edward Lee) is an American ecologist and wildlife biologist specializing in population biology and conservation biology.
Most electrical grids were constructed for non-intermittent energy sources such as coal-fired power plants.
The holotype of this subspecies was obtained near Cue, Western Australia, at the midwest of the continent, and the population is endemic to the north and west of that state.
The Paleotropical kingdom is divided into three subkingdoms, which are each subdivided into floristic regions.
Beavers too have been called keystone, not for eating other species but for modifying the environment in ways that affected other species.
For example, at the Aamjiwnaang community of Anishnaabe First Nations people in Sarnia, Ontario, Canada, residents suffer from a "noticeable decrease in male birth ratio ..., which residents attribute to their proximity to petrochemical plants".
A dense heterarchy is a hierarchical organization in social insect colonies in which the higher levels affect the lower levels and lower levels eventually influence the higher levels.
La visión sistémica del ambiente construido: una metodología transdisciplinar para la ecología humana y el aprendizaje interdisciplinar del diseño de intervención del hábitat.
The northern riverine forest is a type of forest ecology most dominant along waterways in the northeastern and north-central United States and bordering areas of Canada.
Microballoon technology Urban Sky's remote-sensing balloons operate in the stratosphere at an altitude of approximately 20km (around 65,000 feet), and are roughly the size of a car at launch, with a payload attached beneath the balloon.
Three Creeks Confluence Red Butte, Emigration, and Parleys Creeks flow into the Jordan River at 1300 South and 900 West in Salt Lake City, UT.
However, precisely because of the pointed lack of concretion in the original definition, it has been used with different connotations.
In specific rainfall zones, the application of nitrogen, sulfur, and phosphorus fertilizers may also contribute to increased production.
In contrast, in low-temperature surface environments, iron oxides have a limited impact on the lithium cycle.
e.g., sharks, show less thermal dependence at lower temperatures than endothermic species See also Arrhenius equation Arrhenius plot Isotonic (exercise physiology) Isometric exercise Skeletal striated muscle Tetanic contraction == References ==
Many Scientist will analyze many characteristics of the species populations to which to estimate among which species is the most vulnerable to extinction and therefore need the most attention.
Introduction or removal of a keystone predator, or changes in its population density, can have drastic cascading effects on the equilibrium of many other populations in the ecosystem.
Relative species abundance is calculated by dividing the number of species from one group by the total number of species from all groups.
If the species was already unpalatable, predators might learn to avoid the cluster, protecting gregarious individuals with the new aposematic trait.
The study found that bacteria use both autochthonous (from primary production of lake) and allochthonous (from terrestrial watershed) carbon.
For Aileen Hoath, the volume sits within the broader discourse on third-wave conservation, identifying practical solutions at the interface between conservation spatialities and smallholder agriculture.
Some species secrete a chemical from a rectal gland that consists of aliphatic acids and terpene alcohols.
A megadiverse country is one of a group of nations that house the majority of Earth's species and high numbers of endemic species.
Thease such analysis take account of variables such as population size, geographic range, avability in the habitat and the most unique of all the biological traits of a species.
Poisonous plants Several poisonous plants are present in annual grasslands, although livestock losses are rare.
In Northwest Indiana, TWI helped organize a growing partnership which is restoring wetlands hydrology and native vegetation across a 2,000-acre corridor of the Little Calumet River which was cleared and leveed off for flood control.
Species There are three extant species of raccoon: Some raccoons once considered as separate species are now thought to be the same as or subspecies of the common raccoon, including the Barbados raccoon (P.
A class of alternative ideas, here termed Court Jester hypotheses, share the basic tenet that changes in the physical environment rather than biotic interactions themselves are the initiators of major changes in organisms and ecosystems.
This article is intended to give a brief review of the history of anthropogenic N inputs, reported impacts of nitrogen inputs on selected terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, and global players in N2O emissions.
Ecosystem health masquerades as an operational goal because environmental managers "may be reluctant to define their goals clearly." It is a vague concept.
Direct involvement in gathering, fashioning products from, and using local plants and animals created a scheme in which the biological world and the cultural world were tightly intertwined.
Biodiversidad, taxonomía y biogeografía de artrópodos de México: hacia una síntesis de su conocimiento, vol.
Conservation-reliant species are animal or plant species that require continuing species-specific wildlife management intervention such as predator control, habitat management and parasite control to survive, even when a self-sustainable recovery in population is achieved.
Early collections and descriptions of the region's species have historically been uncertain, leading the ICZN to issue an opinion that related to this taxon.
These warrens also possibly accommodate communal nesting, where different females each dig their own egg burrows within the same warren.
For example, analyzing mobility patterns can identify areas that may lend themselves well to building parks and green spaces.
Nevertheless, as exploitation is not always harmful for the plant, the relationship may be able to endure some cheating.
Species naturally become extinct from islands over time; this can be either local extinction if the species also occurs elsewhere, or in cases of island endemism, outright extinction.
Small animals such as various squirrels often perch or roost on nurse logs, adding to the litter by food debris and scat.
Selaginella rupestris, the northern selaginella sometimes locally known as ledge spike-moss or rock spike-moss, is a species of spike-moss occurring in dry rocky places in eastern North America, including one locality in Greenland.
Litter size varies considerably by region; generally, white morph foxes, who tend to live inland, mainly prey on lemmings.
Hence, the taxonomic work fundamental to plant research can be tracked back to both the holding institution and to the taxonomist, linking institution, taxonomist, and the science generated.
184 case studies were reported on a range of species which included invertebrates, fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals, and plants.
Birds between one and two years old closely resemble adults but retain juvenile feathers on wings and tail and have smaller bills.
On the Tibetan Plateau, fossils of the extinct ancestral Arctic fox (Vulpes qiuzhudingi) from the early Pliocene (5.08–3.6 MYA) were found along with many other precursors of modern mammals that evolved during the Pliocene (5.3–2.6 MYA).
There also are assorted temperate evergreen forests dominated by other families of trees, such as Lauraceae in laurel forest.
"First account on the diversity of Ophryotrocha (Annelida, Dorvilleidae) from a mammal-fall in the deep-Atlantic Ocean with the description of three new species." Systematics and Biodiversity 13.6 (2015): 555–570.
August William Kuchler (born August Wilhelm Küchler; 26 July 1907 – 17 June 1999) was a German-born American geographer and naturalist who is noted for developing a plant association system that has become widely used in the United States.
For his MS degree he investigated the migratory behavior of black brant geese in Humboldt Bay using capture-recapture statistics to estimate stopover duration and space use.
Puccinia graminis (Stem rust): the primary hosts include Kentucky bluegrass, barley, and wheat; barberry is the alternate host.
In August 2018, Bionomia was launched (under the name Bloodhound Tracker) as a submission to the Ebbe Nielsen Challenge.
An early use of the term "genetic pollution" in this later sense appears in a wide-ranging review of the potential ecological effects of genetic engineering in The Ecologist magazine in July 1989.
Ultimately, species are the litmus test for biodiversity – viable populations of species can only be expected to exist in relatively intact habitats.
The National Commission on the Red Data Book issues is formed by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine based on its Schmalhausen Institute of Zoology and Cholodny Institute of Botany that directly conduct registry of the red data.
The information (regarding the kind and number of organisms analyzed) is sent to the global headquarters of NaGISA- the University of Kyoto in Japan.
In geography and related fields, the volume’s globalization-and-new-geographies framework anticipated a series of subsequent works on the globalization and new geographies of urbanization, energy, food, agriculture, water, and waste.
The isolation of South America allowed for many separate animal lineages to evolve, creating a lot of originality when it comes to South American animal species.
The system Created for use by amateur naturalists and laymen, rather than specialists, the "Peterson System" is essentially a pictorial key based upon readily noticed visual impressions rather than on the technical features of interest to scientists.
The New Zealand Journal of Ecology is a biannual peer-reviewed scientific journal publishing ecological research relevant to New Zealand and the South Pacific.
This article addresses both the mechanisms of facilitation and the increasing information available concerning the impacts of facilitation on community ecology.
Animal nutrition and forage quality Balancing the nutrient requirements of livestock with the nutrients provided by range forage is a significant challenge for a substantial part of the year.
It is a strip, preferably raised, planted with grasses (bunch grasses) and/or perennial plants, within a crop field or a garden, that fosters and provides habitat for beneficial insects, birds, and other fauna that prey on pests.
Harold Colyer Conklin, an American anthropologist took the lead in documenting indigenous ways of understanding the natural world.
Zimmerer highlights this spatial expansion of the "global conservation boom" by tracing the globalization approaches of the large, influential conservation non-governmental organizations (NGOs) headquartered in the United States and Europe.
A long, black stripe extending along the flanks separates the saddle from the rest of the body, and can be used to differentiate individuals.
The establishment of a conifer plantation in a previous sclerophyll shrubland or mixed conifer forest and the related effects of increased fire severity also create destabilizing transitions in this alternative stable states model.
A similar interaction occurs between the red alga Chondrus crispus and the canopy-forming seaweed Fucus in intertidal sites of southern New England, US.
The recipient is invited to prepare an address for presentation at the annual meeting of the society and for publication in Ecology." Recipients Source: ESA 1983 Robert Treat Paine, United States 1984 Robert McCreadie May, United Kingdom 1986 Thomas W.
For cultural concepts, this emphasizes cognitive distribution across an ecosystem, which is predicated on models of the extended mind thesis.
Other Key trees include yellow birch, white birch, sugar maple, American beech, eastern hemlock, white pine, red pine, northern red oak, pin cherry, and red spruce.
Soil nutrients were reduced in areas of higher flammability, and were found to accumulate in the forested areas that burnt less frequently.
The location is also within one of the largest tuna catchment areas in the world The Costa Rica Dome is also positioned on the major seaway to the Panama Canal for transportation.
Beetle banks are used to reduce or replace the use of insecticides, and can also serve as habitat for birds and beneficial rodents.
Vitousek, United States 1994 Henry Miles Wilbur, United States 1996 David Tilman, United States 1998 Robert V.
An opposite view is that humankind is Gaia's immune system itself, perhaps evolved to avert future catastrophes such as the Permian and Cretaceous mass extinctions of species.
Both views continued their rivalry through the early eighteenth century until Carl Linnaeus's support of imperialism; and in short time due to Linnaeus's popularity, imperial ecology became the dominant view within the discipline.
In addition, this ion negatively affects nitrifying microorganisms, thus affecting nutrient availability in the soil.
For example, both natural and agricultural vegetation boundaries correspond closely to soil boundaries, even at continental and global scales.
The black-backed jackal has a wide array of food sources, feeding on small to medium-sized animals, as well as plant matter and human refuse.
Colonisation events Large-scale notable pre-historic colonisation events include: Arthropods the colonisation of the Earth's land by the first animals, the arthropods.
Earlier works included interventions in sericulture, vegetable leather tanning, and fish aggregation devices.
One exception is Russian, where raccoon is named yenot (енот) due to similarity between raccoon and genet furs.
In 1982, Benavides went into exile in Mexico and the United States, and continued her efforts from there.
This is commonly known as Tobler's first law of geography, summarized as "everything is related to everything else, but nearby objects are more related than distant objects".
In Sweden, the initiative "Guide to Silence" has been implemented in several municipalities in the Stockholm region.
The global manganese cycle is being altered by anthropogenic influences, such as mining and mineral processing for industrial use, as well as through the burning of fossil fuels.
Western Australia alone has several scattered population groups locally distinguished with given indigenous names: nunguin in Kimberley, walambari in Pilbara, wayurta in the desert areas, and bilda in Nullarbor Plain shared with South Australia among many others.
It forms masses of conidiophores erupting through the intersegmental areas (or clear bands) on the abdominal dorsum of the flies and eventually kills them.
Use of human health and well-being as a criterion of ecosystem health introduces an arrogance and a conflict of interest into environmental assessment, as human population growth has caused much environmental damage.
The human ecosystem is fossil energy powered by high input and throughput, and can be divided into two sub-ecosystems: urban-industrial and agro-industrial.
Methods that allow for storage of a high numbers of individuals also aim to maximize genetic diversity.
Concepts Scale In spatial ecology, scale refers to the spatial extent of ecological processes and the spatial interpretation of the data.
Rather, they imply a relative quietness, where other sounds than noise are given the chance to come forward.
The "ghost" canid was genetically close to the dhole, and had evolved after the divergence of the African wild dog from the other canid species.
The Przewalski's horse was downgraded from EW to Endangered in 2011 after decades of reintroduction efforts.
Zimmerer introduces a novel theoretical framework for understanding environmental conservation not as completely neutral forms of science, policy, and management but as fundamentally geographical phenomena shaped by politics and power.
Although phylogenetically closer to felines and viverrids, hyenas are behaviourally and morphologically similar to canids in several elements due to convergent evolution: both hyenas and canines are non-arboreal, cursorial hunters that catch prey with their teeth rather than claws.
Examples At an elevation of 4,500–6,000 m, Northern Tibet's area is covered by approximately 94% grasslands, including the alpine-steppe and alpine meadow.
The instrumental use of the animals, it was said, is hard to reconcile with their intrinsic (or inherent) value.
In these populations, local adaptations can be disrupted by the introduction of new genes that may not be as suitable for the small island environments.
Eye colour varies with age: nestlings up to four months old have blue-grey eyes, juveniles aged from four to fourteen months have brown eyes, and immature birds have hazel eyes with blue eyerings around the pupil until age two years and ten months.
The Red Data Book of Ukraine, or literally the Red Book of Ukraine (Ukrainian: Червона книга України, romanized: Chervona knyha Ukrainy, IPA: [tʃerˈwɔnɐ ˈknɪɦɐ ʊkrɐˈjinɪ]), is an official national red list of the threatened animals, plants and fungi that are protected by the law in Ukraine.
Senator Chuck Grassley said "Not by this senator, and I don't think there will be any by other senators." Same year, one of the prospective founders behind this project, Ray Townsend's son, Ted, had pledged $32.9 million of his own money.
Soil provides a vital habitat, primarily for microbes (including bacteria and fungi), but also for microfauna (such as protozoa and nematodes), mesofauna (such as microarthropods and enchytraeids), and macrofauna (such as earthworms, termites, and millipedes).
Having two notopleural bristles and a hindmost posthumeral bristle located lateral to presutural bristle are characteristics to look for when identifying this family.
These have been used or adapted for use under Creative Commons license by organizations and institutions that seek to educate other communities about data and research management.
Process effects Acidification Soil acidity (or alkalinity) is the concentration of hydrogen ions (H+) in the soil.
The rGLV has been used as a tool to analyze emergent macroscopic behavior in microbial communities with dense, strong interspecies interactions.
Lee has published more than 50 scientific peer-reviewed papers in the field of ecology, mainly focused on demography and population biology of wild vertebrates.
Domestic wastewater and sewage sludge disposal are the main anthropogenic sources of Mn within aquatic ecosystems.
This demonstrates that more fixed deleterious alleles in a population lead to greater reductions in fitness, unless counteracted by large effective populations or weakly deleterious effects overall.
This process is endogenous (internal) and results in the individuals being spatially adjacent in a patchy fashion.
Future The magnitude and pace of human impacts on the environment make it unlikely that substantial progress will be made in delisting many species unless the definition of "recovery" includes some form of active management.
Micronutrient limitations, psychological needs, and waste production complicates the long-term overall stability of the system.
Li, Shao-peng; Cadotte, Marc W.; Meiners, Scott J.; Hua, Zheng-shuang; Jiang, Lin; Shu, Wen-sheng (September 2015).
Hyenas feature prominently in the folklore and mythology of human cultures that live alongside them.
He reported the draft genome of the black cottonwood tree using shotgun sequence assembly and genetic mapping, resulting in a chromosome-scale reconstruction that unveiled over 45,000 putative protein-coding genes.
Feedback mechanisms also play a significant role in the process of enlarging the pan; salts are left as water accumulates in depressions, which inhibits sedimentation due to weather and the growth of vegetation in the future.
The compilation of PDF files from issues dating back to 1953 was funded by the New Zealand Government's Terrestrial and Freshwater Biodiversity Information System.
A more recent molecular analysis agrees on the phylogenetic relationship between the four extant hyaenidae species (Koepfli et al, 2006).
She has led workshops on sustainable agriculture, human rights, and the prevention of community and family violence.
The first edition of the Ukrainian Red Book was published in 1980 by the Naukova Dumka publishing house of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.
Article 7(d) of New Zealand's Resource Management Act (RMA), for example, requires particular regard to being given to the "intrinsic values of ecosystems".
A genetic restoration project was developed to achieve gene flow and an increase in genetic variability.
However, mesopredators often occupy different ecological niches than the former apex predator and will have different effects on the structure and stability of the ecosystem.
When there are two or three hosts, the development cycle is named diheteroxenous or triheteroxenous, respectively.
Rubyspira is a genus of deep water sea snails, marine gastropod molluscs, the only genus in family Rubyspiridae within the superfamily Abyssochrysoidea.
The habitats where they live may determine the food they collect the most; for example, forage success rates for solid foods are highest in lakeshore sites, while high levels of liquid sources were collected from pasture sites.
Rather than a passive interpretation of internally represented information, cognition is considered to be an active process involving the transformation of information into meaningful relationships between the organism and its environment.
Worldwide use of the term has not yet developed and it has not yet appeared in a publication compiled outside North America.
It is an economic, political or ethical judgement rather than a scientific measure of environmental quality.
Natural Justice has been developing a process and tool known as community protocols in order to enable communities to understand the laws and policies that affect them, particularly those developed by government and industry without consultation.
Contemporary work included some of the earliest experimental studies using these animals and identified the range of light frequencies that they can see.
Blowfly eggs, usually yellowish or white in color, are about 1.5 mm × 0.4 mm, and when laid, look like rice grains.
Predators might innately fear unfamiliar forms (neophobia) long enough for them to become established, but this is likely to be only temporary.
Food is taken mainly from the ground, birds either find objects while walking along and looking and turn over objects with their bills as they go.
An ecoregion, characterized by a combination of climate, geology, topography, and ecosystems, embodies unique natural landscapes and is assessed based on the criteria of habitat loss, fragmentation, and protection.
History Urban Sky was founded in 2019 to develop lower-cost stratospheric balloon systems for remote sensing applications, including through balloon miniaturization and new approaches to balloon control.
In December 2023 the Ecologische Autoriteit advised the province of Friesland to make an emergency plan to save the large copper, of which the subspecies L.
The older offspring (1-year-olds) often remain within their parent's territory even though predators are absent and there are fewer resources, which may indicate kin selection.
Her work has two distinct strands: the microbial ecology of the mammalian gut and coastal microbial ecosystems.
Because there is no highest level within a heterarchy but the heterarchy itself, control is decentralized (not controlled by the queen).
Outlined the impacts of major watershed development programs in terms of biophysical impacts, environmental impacts, social-economic impacts and overall economic impacts.
Paul Hawken suggests in Blessed Unrest that when Earth is considered a living system then Earth's immune system is made up of the million or so organizations all around the globe that are working for social justice, the environment, and indigenous people's rights.
In the case of 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ..., his ideas are similar to what is now known as Abel summation: ...
Cheryl gives them a list of 10 possible dates: May 15, May 16, May 19 June 17, June 18 July 14, July 16 August 14, August 15, August 17 Cheryl then tells Albert and Bernard separately the month and the day of her birthday respectively.
The Poincaré–Birkhoff–Witt theorem states that every Lie algebra embeds into the commutator Lie algebra of its universal enveloping algebra.
In the RLWE context the coefficients of the polynomials and all operations involving those coefficients will be done in a finite field, typically the field Z / q Z = F q {\textstyle \mathbf {Z} /q\mathbf {Z} =\mathbf {F} _{q}} for a prime integer q {\textstyle q} .
If all triangular faces of a polyhedron are vertex-disjoint, there exists an edge with smaller total degree, at most eight.
Therefore, any such body for which the lattice packing constant was previously known, such as any ellipse, consequently has a known packing constant.
Mitchell's embedding theorem for abelian categories realises every small abelian category as a full (and exactly embedded) subcategory of a category of modules over some ring.
Third question: densest sphere packing The third question in Hilbert's problem asks for the densest sphere packing or packing of other specified shapes.
Thirty-six officers problem – Arrange six regiments consisting of six officers each of different ranks in a 6 × 6 square so that no rank or regiment is repeated in any row or column.
The motivation is the interest in the target of the assembly maps; this may be, for instance, the algebraic K-theory of a group ring K n ( R G ) {\displaystyle K_{n}(RG)} or the L-theory of a group ring L n ( R G ) , {\displaystyle L_{n}(RG),} where G is some group.
This illustrates the structures that are often studied in additive combinatorics: the combinatorial structure of A + B as compared to the algebraic structure of arithmetic progressions.
1961 (1961): Graham Higman characterises the subgroups of finitely presented groups with Higman's embedding theorem, connecting recursion theory with group theory in an unexpected way and giving a very different proof of the unsolvability of the word problem.
{\displaystyle \eta ={\frac {\sum _{i=1}^{n}\mu (K_{i})}{\mu (X)}}.} In Euclidean space If the space being packed is infinite in measure, such as Euclidean space, it is customary to define the density as the limit of densities exhibited in balls of larger and larger radii.
Six triangles meet at each additional vertex introduced by this refolding, so they have zero angular defect and remain locally Euclidean.
When θ increases from 0 to π radians, ϕ decreases from the initial value π radians to zero and s increases from the initial value R − r to the value R + r.
It states that if a group G has cohomological dimension 2, then it has a 2-dimensional Eilenberg–MacLane space K ( G , 1 ) {\displaystyle K(G,1)} .
Jiménez López, Víctor (1999), "An elementary solution to the mountain climbers' problem", Aequationes Mathematicae, 57 (1): 45–49, doi:10.1007/s000100050069, MR 1675749, S2CID 121912365.
As each edge has a weight of one, the weight of the resulting cycle cover is equal to that of the original cycle cover.
In mathematics, a representation theorem is a theorem that states that every abstract structure with certain properties is isomorphic to another (abstract or concrete) structure.
Shelah later showed that the Whitehead problem remains undecidable even if one assumes the continuum hypothesis.
If f {\displaystyle f} is strictly quasiconcave in x {\displaystyle x} for each θ {\displaystyle \theta } and C {\displaystyle C} is convex-valued, then C ∗ {\displaystyle C^{*}} is single-valued, and thus is a continuous function rather than a correspondence.
Thus, almost all models are grey box models as opposed to black box where no model form is assumed or white box models that are purely theoretical.
The topological Vaught conjecture is more general than the original Vaught conjecture: Given a countable language we can form the space of all structures on the natural numbers for that language.
(1971), "Spherical transforms of semisimple Lie groups", Annals of Mathematics, Second Series, 94 (2): 246–303, doi:10.2307/1970861, JSTOR 1970861, MR 0289725.
In the case where w = ℓ = γ lg ⁡ n {\displaystyle w=\ell =\gamma \lg n} for γ > 1 {\displaystyle \gamma >1} and S = n ⋅ lg O ( 1 ) ⁡ n {\displaystyle S=n\cdot \lg ^{O(1)}n} , the optimal search time is Θ ( lg ⁡ ℓ ) {\displaystyle \Theta (\lg \ell )} and the van Emde Boas tree achieves this bound.
This means that given the input to the problem there exists a unique solution, which depends continuously on the input.
It is also known that a group of cohomological dimension 2 has a 3-dimensional Eilenberg−MacLane space.
That is, assuming # p − 1 ( b ) = 1 {\displaystyle \#p^{-1}(b)=1} for every b < a {\displaystyle b<a} , we show # p − 1 ( a ) = 1 {\displaystyle \#p^{-1}(a)=1} .
This is closely akin to the general problem of conditional convergence, and variations of this idea, called the Eilenberg–Mazur swindle, are sometimes used in knot theory and algebra.
Giaquinta, Mariano (1983), Multiple integrals in the calculus of variations and nonlinear elliptic systems, Annals of Mathematics Studies, vol.
The triangles are similar with area ⁠1/2⁠ab, while the small square has side b − a and area (b − a)2.
A 2025 article by Zelin Dong, Fenglei Fan, Huan Xiong, and Tieyong Zeng introduced the Zero rule into an optimized reverse-search algorithm.
According to Hermann Weyl, the assumption that space is made of finite and discrete units is subject to a further problem, given by the "tile argument" or "distance function problem".
History The questions appeared following Thurston's announcement of the geometrization conjecture, which proposed that all compact 3-manifolds could be decomposed into geometric pieces.
Napoleon was known to be an amateur mathematician, but it is not known if he either created or solved the problem.
An impossible puzzle is a puzzle that cannot be resolved, either due to lack of sufficient information, or any number of logical impossibilities.
Conversely, every problem R in FNP induces a (unique) corresponding decision problem: given x, decide if there exists some y such that R(x,y) holds.
In 1912 Dehn gave an algorithm that solves both the word and conjugacy problem for the fundamental groups of closed orientable two-dimensional manifolds of genus greater than or equal to 2 (the genus 0 and genus 1 cases being trivial).
This special type of QKP forms the 0-1 quadratic knapsack problem, which was first discussed by Gallo et al.
The probability P(m,k) that k black balls will be drawn after m draws can be calculated recursively using the formula P ( m , k ) = y + 1 − k x + y + 1 − k P ( m − 1 , k − 1 ) + x x + y − k P ( m − 1 , k ) {\displaystyle P(m,k)={\frac {y+1-k}{x+y+1-k}}P(m-1,k-1)+{\frac {x}{x+y-k}}P(m-1,k)} .
Zhang (1994) claimed incorrectly that the unit cube in R4 is not an intersection body, which would have implied that the Busemann–Petty problem has a negative solution if the dimension is at least 4.
But Zi-Wei Sun showed that the problem for integers is unsolvable even for equations with no more than 11 unknowns.
A Cauchy problem in mathematics asks for the solution of a partial differential equation that satisfies certain conditions that are given on a hypersurface in the domain.
The description in this book contains the same false drawing as in Hooper's book, but it got corrected in a later edition as well.
For n different from 2, a group G of cohomological dimension n has an n-dimensional Eilenberg–MacLane space.
Given two search problems A , B {\displaystyle A,B} , a polynomial-time parsimonious reduction from A {\displaystyle A} to B {\displaystyle B} is a function f {\displaystyle f} , such that f {\displaystyle f} is computable in polynomial time.
Thus some researches aim to develop a methodology to generate instances of the 0-1 QKP with a predictable and consistent level of difficulty.
The solutions that arrive at this answer ignore that the latter part of: Albert: I don't know when Cheryl's birthday is, but I know that Bernard doesn't know too.
For example, for the SAT problem, a problem instance is a Boolean formula ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } , and the set of potential solutions is the set of boolean value assignments V → { 0 , 1 } {\displaystyle V\to \{0,1\}} , where V {\displaystyle V} is the set of variables in ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } .
When the vertices are placed with no three in line, this kind of problematic placement cannot occur, because the entire line through any two vertices, and not just the line segment, is free of other vertices.
Although it is divergent, it can be manipulated to yield a number of mathematically interesting results.
To prove this, we start with the following claim: for any perfect dissection of a rectangle in squares, the smallest square in this dissection does not lie on an edge of the rectangle.
Optimal packing density One is often interested in packings restricted to use elements of a certain supply collection.
The Van Emde Boas tree achieves a query time of O ( log ⁡ log ⁡ U ) {\displaystyle O(\log \log U)} , but requires O ( U ) {\displaystyle O(U)} space.
The tripod packing problem asks for the maximum number of disjoint tripods, all of whose apexes lie within a larger cube consisting of n 3 {\displaystyle n^{3}} grid cubes, as the parameter n {\displaystyle n} varies.
The Skolem problem is named after Thoralf Skolem, because of his 1933 paper proving the Skolem–Mahler–Lech theorem on the zeros of a sequence satisfying a linear recurrence with constant coefficients.
In unit cells, hole filling can sometimes lead to polyhedral arrays with a mix of hcp and fcc layering.
Symmetrically, if the function evaluates to false, then try changing variables one at a time from false to true to find a maximal truth assignment for which the function still evaluates as false.
Description of the problem The fundamental problem of algebraic number theory is to describe the fields of algebraic numbers.
A major ingredient in Hilbert's proof is the Hilbert basis theorem applied to the ideal inside the polynomial ring generated by the invariants.
Examples of RE-complete problems: Halting problem: Whether a program given a finite input finishes running or will run forever.
What is your opinion about it?" The students had been introduced to the idea of an infinite set, but they had no prior experience with infinite series.
What this implies, for instance, in the case of apple/orange example above, is that the consumers should trade their products for √(2)(1/2) = 1 units of the other product to avoid an arbitrage.
Clock angle problems are a type of mathematical problem which involve finding the angle between the hands of an analog clock.
In 1963, Grätzer and Schmidt proved that every algebraic lattice is isomorphic to the congruence lattice of some algebra.
Paradoxes of motion Three of the strongest and most famous—that of Achilles and the tortoise, the Dichotomy argument, and that of an arrow in flight—are presented in detail below.
Convert the (prime) CNF expression of a function into the (prime) DNF expression for the same function, or vice versa Construct the transversal hypergraph of a given hypergraph.
The Siegel zero, conjectured not to exist, is a possible real zero of a Dirichlet L-series, rather near s = 1.
A show master playing deceitfully half of the times modifies the winning chances in case one is offered to switch to "equal probability".
In number theory, Waring's problem asks whether each natural number k has an associated positive integer s such that every natural number is the sum of at most s natural numbers raised to the power k.
Six spheres surround an octahedral voids with three spheres coming from one layer and three spheres coming from the next layer.
Indeed, each corner square has a smaller adjacent edge square, and the smallest edge square is adjacent to smaller squares not on the edge.
Suppose that |A|,|B| ≥ 2 (that is, barring edge cases) and | A + B | ≤ | A | + | B | − 1 ≤ p − 2 , {\displaystyle |A+B|\leq |A|+|B|-1\leq p-2,} then A and B are arithmetic progressions with the same difference.
In other words, it is the expected Euclidean distance between two random points, where each point in the shape is equally likely to be chosen.
If the a, b, d are to be integers, the smallest solution a > b > d is then 1 20 2 + 1 15 2 = 1 12 2 {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{20^{2}}}+{\frac {1}{15^{2}}}={\frac {1}{12^{2}}}} using the smallest Pythagorean triple 3, 4, 5.
Since the consistency of ZFC implies the consistency of both of the following: The axiom of constructibility (which asserts that all sets are constructible); Martin's axiom plus the negation of the continuum hypothesis, Whitehead's problem cannot be resolved in ZFC.
Hence there seems to be a connection between the Kaplansky conjecture and the vanishing of K 0 ( R [ G ] ) {\displaystyle K_{0}(R[G])} .
The page of the Polymath project, Polymath (2018), contains further research, media citations and verification data.
In addition to these bodies, the packing constants of hyperspheres in 8 and 24 dimensions are almost exactly known.
materials with a negative refractive index) which find applications in super lenses or optical cloaking.
As the left hand side tends to be more easily accessible than the right hand side, because there are hardly any general structure theorems of the C ∗ {\displaystyle C^{*}} -algebra, one usually views the conjecture as an "explanation" of the right hand side.
In geometry, a square trisection is a type of dissection problem which consists of cutting a square into pieces that can be rearranged to form three identical squares.
History The research on the relationship between the max-flow and min-cut of multicommodity flow problem has obtained great interest since Ford and Fulkerson's result for 1-commodity flow problems.
were the first to experimentally realise such a structure using soap bubbles in a system of deformable spheres.
After 5 divisions, there are 1020 coconuts left over, a number divisible by 5 as required by the problem.
On examining all the possible ages, it turns out there are two pairs of sets of possible ages that produce the same sum as each other: 9, 4, 4 and 8, 6, 3, which sum to 17, and 12, 4, 3 and 9, 8, 2, which sum to 19.
In this case, the Brouwer fixed-point theorem follows almost immediately from the intermediate value theorem.
Relationship to other complexity classes Consider an arbitrary decision problem L {\displaystyle L} in the class NP.
Although Kawasaki's theorem completely describes the folding patterns that have flat-folded states, it does not describe the folding process needed to reach that state.
{\displaystyle a(\Gamma _{1})\leq J(u_{1},u_{2},\ldots ,u_{n}).} In the above display J ( u 1 , u 2 , … , u n ) {\displaystyle J(u_{1},u_{2},\ldots ,u_{n})} is the *jacobi number*.
Robinson this is again solvable whenever d = d1 × d2 for two numbers d1 and d2 such that the d1- and d2-dimensional cases are themselves solvable.
This conjecture, later proven by Grigori Perelman in 2003, represented a complete classification of 3-manifolds and included the famous Poincaré conjecture as a special case.
A canonical form solves the classification problem, and is more data: it not only classifies every class, but provides a distinguished (canonical) element of each class.
The question naturally arises of whether there is an algorithm which, given as input two expressions, decides whether they represent the same element.
The ball may also be replaced by dilations of some other convex body, but in general the resulting densities are not equal.
After the late 17th-century introduction of calculus in Europe, but before the advent of modern rigour, the tension between these answers fueled what has been characterized as an "endless" and "violent" dispute between mathematicians.
Lehman argues that seeing such a conflicting outcome in intuitive evaluations may motivate the need for rigorous definitions and attention to detail.
Given the value of p, and no other information relevant to the question of whether the sun will rise tomorrow, the probability that the sun will rise tomorrow is p.
The Birch–Tate conjecture is a conjecture in mathematics (more specifically in algebraic K-theory) proposed by both Bryan John Birch and John Tate.
The finite lattice representation problem asks whether the same is true for finite lattices and finite algebras.
The hour hand of a normal 12-hour analogue clock turns 360° in 12 hours (720 minutes) or 0.5° per minute.
Meta-analysis: Though independent p-values can be combined using Fisher's method, techniques are still being developed to handle the case of dependent p-values.
The problems primarily focused on algebraic geometry, number theory, and the connections between modular forms and elliptic curves.
A description of the field Kab was obtained in the class field theory, developed by Hilbert himself, Emil Artin, and others in the first half of the 20th century.
If a = sup ( X a ) {\displaystyle a=\sup(X^{a})} , then, thinking g b {\displaystyle g_{b}} as sets of ordered pairs, let f = ⋃ b < a g b .
Geom., 27 (2): 225–239, doi:10.4310/jdg/1214441781, MR 0925121 Jin, Zhi Ren (1988), "A counterexample to the Yamabe problem for complete noncompact manifolds", Partial differential equations (Tianjin, 1986), Lecture Notes in Mathematics, vol.
The ⁠2/3⁠ chance of finding the car has not been changed by the opening of one of these doors because Monty, knowing the location of the car, is certain to reveal a goat.
History William Hooper published the paradox in 1774 in his book Rational Recreations, calling it "The geometric money".
Many other researchers also showed concrete research results in similar problems For a general network flow problem, the max-flow is within a factor of k of the min-cut since each commodity can be optimized separately using 1 / k {\displaystyle 1/k} of the capacity of each edge.
Basic notions Operations on sets Let A and B be finite subsets of an abelian group; then the sum set is defined to be A + B = { a + b : a ∈ A , b ∈ B } .
Zariski, Interpretations algebrico-geometriques du quatorzieme probleme de Hilbert, Bulletin des Sciences Mathematiques 78 (1954), pp.
However, for planar graphs with vertices of degree lower than three, variants of the theorem have been proven, showing that either there is an edge of bounded total degree or some other special kind of subgraph.
By the linearity of expectations we have: E ⁡ ( T ) = E ⁡ ( t 1 + t 2 + ⋯ + t n ) = E ⁡ ( t 1 ) + E ⁡ ( t 2 ) + ⋯ + E ⁡ ( t n ) = 1 p 1 + 1 p 2 + ⋯ + 1 p n = n n + n n − 1 + ⋯ + n 1 = n ⋅ ( 1 1 + 1 2 + ⋯ + 1 n ) = n ⋅ H n .
In Riemannian geometry, a branch of mathematics, the prescribed Ricci curvature problem is as follows: given a smooth manifold M and a symmetric 2-tensor h, construct a metric on M whose Ricci curvature tensor equals h.
{\displaystyle \operatorname {E} (T_{m})=n\log n+(m-1)n\log \log n+O(n),{\text{ as }}n\to \infty .} Here m is fixed.
History The paradox appears in Hilbert and Bernays' Grundlagen der Mathematik and is used by them to show that a sufficiently strong consistent theory cannot contain its own reference functor.
{\displaystyle \;\rho (n)=8a+2^{b}\;.} Other admissible triples include ( 3 , 5 , 7 ) {\displaystyle \,(3,5,7)\,} and ( 10 , 10 , 16 ) .
History Applications The Matiyasevich/MRDP theorem relates two notions—one from computability theory, the other from number theory—and has some surprising consequences.
This class contains problems such as the computation of pure Nash equilibria in certain strategic games where a solution is guaranteed to exist.
(2008), The Riemann hypothesis: a resource for the aficionado and virtuoso alike, CMS books in mathematics, vol.
auf cut-the-knot.org Mariano Tomatis: Curse of the crystal skulls and other vanishing area puzzles Rational recreations by W.
Its image is the convex polytope with vertices the image of the fixed point set of T on Ad(G)⋅X, i.e.
If the region does not contain charge, the potential must be a solution to Laplace's equation (a so-called harmonic function).
While black balls are set aside after a draw (non-replacement), white balls are returned to the urn after a draw (replacement).
Therefore, by induction on the number of ΔY- and YΔ-transformations needed to reduce a given graph to K 4 {\displaystyle K_{4}} , every polyhedral graph can be realized as a polyhedron.
The first solution to this problem was proposed in the 10th century AD by the Persian mathematician Abu'l-Wafa' (940-998) in his treatise "On the geometric constructions necessary for the artisan".
These were affordable eateries from the early 1900s to the 1970s that offered fixed-price meals at extremely low costs (see for references to the few that still exist today; Paise is the smallest denomination of the Indian Rupee).
A particular supply collection of interest is all Euclidean motions of a fixed convex body K {\displaystyle K} .
If the supply collection consists of convex bodies of bounded diameter, there exists a packing whose packing density is equal to the packing constant, and this packing constant does not vary if the balls in the definition of density are replaced by dilations of some other convex body.
The conjugacy problem contains the word problem as a special case: if x and y are words, deciding if they are the same word is equivalent to deciding if x y − 1 {\displaystyle xy^{-1}} is the identity, which is the same as deciding if it's conjugate to the identity.
Lutwak (1988) introduced intersection bodies, and showed that the Busemann–Petty problem has a positive solution in a given dimension if and only if every symmetric convex body is an intersection body.
(1976) showed that Δ(n) satisfies the bounds 1 3 n 1 / 2 ≤ Δ ( n ) ≤ ( 1 6 n ) 1 / 2 1 3 [ 1 + 2 ( 1 − 3 5 n ) 1 / 2 ] .
Positive weights translate to convex dihedral angles between two faces of the piecewise linear surface, and negative weights translate to concave dihedral angles.
In the late 17th century Jacques Ozanam came back to this issue and in the 19th century, solutions using 8 and 7 pieces were found, including one given by the mathematician Édouard Lucas.
It says in KK-language that the assembly map μ A , Γ : R K K ∗ Γ ( E Γ _ , A ) → K ∗ ( A ⋊ λ Γ ) , {\displaystyle \mu _{A,\Gamma }:RKK_{*}^{\Gamma }({\underline {E\Gamma }},A)\to K_{*}(A\rtimes _{\lambda }\Gamma ),} is an isomorphism, containing the case without coefficients as the case A = C .
If the sets in the given family are interpreted as vertices in a hypergraph, with each element of the sets interpreted as a hyperedge incident to the sets containing that element, then the minimal set covers are the hyperedges of the transversal hypergraph.
By Rice's theorem, it is impossible to write a program that automatically verifies for the absence of bugs in other programs, taking a program and a specification as input, and checking whether the program satisfies the specification.
Common to the class is the nature of the resulting equation, which is a linear Diophantine equation in two unknowns.
A faster algorithm for OMv is implied by a result of Williams and runs in time O ( n 3 / log 2 ⁡ n ) {\displaystyle O(n^{3}/\log ^{2}n)} .
Showing that the condition is also a sufficient condition is a matter of describing how to fold a given crease pattern so that it folds flat.
According to the spectral theorem, there exists a Borel measure m {\displaystyle m} on the unit circle T {\displaystyle \mathbb {T} } such that for all integer k ⟨ ( U ∗ ) k [ e n + 1 ] , [ e n + 1 ] ⟩ = ∫ T z k d m .
Partition a polygon into trapezoids In VLSI artwork processing systems, it is often required to partition a polygonal region into the minimum number of trapezoids, with two horizontal sides.
The work of Galois made it clear that field extensions are controlled by certain groups, the Galois groups.
Kaplan–Yorke conjecture on the dimension of an attractor in terms of its Lyapunov exponents Margulis conjecture – measure classification for diagonalizable actions in higher-rank groups.
In essence, this should be understood as a feature of the syntax (taken in a broad sense) of those languages.
In this case, Bernard's first statement eliminates May 19 and June 18, and consequently June 17 (if Albert were told "June", he could have concluded it was June 17), leaving May 15 and 16 uneliminated unlike in the original.
While the question may seem simple, it has a fairly complicated answer; the exact value for this is 2 + 2 + 5 ln ⁡ ( 1 + 2 ) 15 {\displaystyle {\frac {2+{\sqrt {2}}+5\ln(1+{\sqrt {2}})}{15}}} .
For this particular structure a moving interface with increasing liquid fraction was reported by Hutzler et al.
For example, imagine that x , y , z {\displaystyle x,y,z} are symbols representing real numbers - then a relevant solution to the word problem would, given the input ( x ⋅ y ) / z = ?
If the resulting formula is still satisfiable the algorithm keeps x 1 {\displaystyle x_{1}} fixed to TRUE and continues to fix x 2 {\displaystyle x_{2}} , otherwise it decides that x 1 {\displaystyle x_{1}} has to be FALSE and continues.
Another example of toy theorem is Rolle's theorem, which is obtained from the mean value theorem by equating the function values at the endpoints.
However, there is not yet a proof to show that the difficulty of the α-SVP for ideal lattices is equivalent to the average α-SVP.
If one takes the cube root of both volumes, and divides by three, then the number obtained in this way from the total volume of the pieces is the geometric mean of x, y, and z, while the number obtained in the same way from the volume of the cube is their arithmetic mean.
Origin The problem derives from "A Country House Visit", one of Jan Struther's newspaper articles appearing in the Times of London between 1937 and 1939 featuring her character Mrs.
Until it is answered, the theory of finite algebras is incomplete since, given a finite algebra, it is unknown whether there are, a priori, any restrictions on the shape of its congruence lattice.
This algorithm is guaranteed to produce a stable marriage for all participants in time O ( n 2 ) {\displaystyle O(n^{2})} where n {\displaystyle n} is the number of men or women.
Here below we briefly introduce a few examples, and the in-depth elaborations can be found in Leighton and Rao (1999).
233–269; reprinted as an appendix in Martin Davis, Computability and Unsolvability, Dover reprint 1982.
The set of all well-formed expressions that can be formulated using these operations on elements from a given set of generators X will be called W(X).
When you are first awakened, to what degree ought you believe that the outcome of the coin toss is Heads?
This is because (to be sure of getting the correct answer) the algorithm must evaluate the function at least once for each prime implicate and at least once for each prime implicant, but this number of evaluations can be exponentially larger than the number of prime implicates alone.
On the first approach, typically whatever one says about the Liar paradox carries over smoothly to the Hilbert–Bernays paradox.
Within a particular model structure, parameters or variable parameter relations may need to be found.
Buchin, Kevin; Buchin, Maike; Knauer, Christian; Rote, Günter; Wenk, Carola (2007), "How difficult is it to walk the dog?", Proc.
Later work showed that the OMv conjecture implies lower bounds on the time needed for subgraph counting in average-case graphs.
See also Problems in loop theory and quasigroup theory Rainbow matching References Alter, Ronald (1975), "How many latin squares are there?", Amer.
In mathematics, a toy theorem is a simplified instance (special case) of a more general theorem, which can be useful in providing a handy representation of the general theorem, or a framework for proving the general theorem.
{\displaystyle A^{a}=\{b\in A\mid b<a\}.} The transfinite recursion theorem is also commonly stated for ordinals.
The uniform multicommodity flow problem is a special case of the product multicommodity flow problem for which the weight is set to 1 for all nodes u ∈ V {\displaystyle u\in V} .
Then, let θ {\displaystyle \theta } be the acute angle the needle makes with the horizontal, and let x {\displaystyle x} be the distance from the center of the needle to the nearest line.
Compact Lie groups Let K be a connected compact Lie group with maximal torus T and Weyl group W = NK(T)/T.
Similar model applies to problems like considering the location of airports, railway stations, or freight handling terminals.
In general, to use mathematics for solving a real-world problem, the first step is to construct a mathematical model of the problem.
More specifically, let F be a totally real number field and let N be the largest natural number such that the extension of F by the Nth root of unity has an elementary abelian 2-group as its Galois group.
Kubina and Wunderlich, extending work of Stemmler, have shown that any such k {\displaystyle k} must satisfy k > 471 600 000 {\displaystyle k>471\,600\,000} .
Derivation of gravitational field outside of a solid sphere There are three steps to proving Newton's shell theorem (1).
Construction The puzzle itself consists only of 27 identical rectangular cuboid-shaped blocks, although physical realizations of the puzzle also typically supply a cubical box to fit the blocks into.
Hence, | | a ( x ) | | ∞ = b {\displaystyle ||a(x)||_{\infty }=b} states that the infinity norm of the polynomial a ( x ) {\displaystyle a(x)} is b {\displaystyle b} .
The conjugacy problem was identified by Max Dehn in 1911 as one of the fundamental decision problems in group theory; the other two being the word problem and the isomorphism problem.
In the special case of a "histogram polygon", the complexity improves to O ( n 3 ) {\displaystyle O(n^{3})} .
A related question is to estimate the number of transversals in the Cayley tables of cyclic groups of odd order.
Although it expressly includes shapes other than spheres, it is generally taken as equivalent to the Kepler conjecture.
Does the generalized continuum hypothesis entail ♢ ( E cf ⁡ ( λ ) λ + ) {\displaystyle {\diamondsuit (E_{\operatorname {cf} (\lambda )}^{\lambda ^{+}}})} for every singular cardinal λ {\displaystyle \lambda } ?
So if we iterate over all n until we either find H(a, i) or its negation, we will always halt, and furthermore, the answer it gives us will be true (by soundness).
These may be interpreted as multiplicativity for the norms on the complex numbers ( C {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} } ), quaternions ( H {\displaystyle \mathbb {H} } ), and octonions ( O {\displaystyle \mathbb {O} } ), respectively.
These problems led to the formulation of the Taniyama–Shimura conjecture (now known as the modularity theorem), which states that every elliptic curve over the rational numbers is modular.
In computer science, the matrix mortality problem (or mortal matrix problem) is a decision problem that asks, given a set of size m of n×n matrices with integer coefficients, whether the zero matrix can be expressed as a finite product of matrices from this set.
The total number of participants on one side might not equal the total capacity to which they are to be matched on the other side.
The mathematical analysis of the problem reveals that the expected number of trials needed grows as Θ ( n log ⁡ ( n ) ) {\displaystyle \Theta (n\log(n))} .
Triangle ABA' has a right angle at B and BH is perpendicular to AA', so : A H A B = A B A A ′ {\displaystyle {\frac {AH}{AB}}={\frac {AB}{AA'}}} Therefore, A H = b 2 2 a {\displaystyle AH={\frac {b^{2}}{2a}}} and AC = b²/a.
In mathematics, a classification theorem answers the classification problem: "What are the objects of a given type, up to some equivalence?".
Composing the upper assembly map with this homomorphism one gets exactly the assembly map occurring in the Baum–Connes conjecture.
In 1997, Mladen Bestvina and Noel Brady constructed a group G so that either G is a counterexample to the Eilenberg–Ganea conjecture, or there must be a counterexample to the Whitehead conjecture; in other words, it is not possible for both conjectures to be true.
The v vertices in a simple arrangement of n hyperplanes in d dimensions can be found in O(n2dv) time and O(nd) space complexity.
Notice that, with this notation, the original Newton–Pepys problem reads as: is P ( r ≥ 1 ; 6 , 1 / 6 ) ≥ P ( r ≥ 2 ; 12 , 1 / 6 ) ≥ P ( r ≥ 3 ; 18 , 1 / 6 ) {\displaystyle P(r\geq 1;6,1/6)\geq P(r\geq 2;12,1/6)\geq P(r\geq 3;18,1/6)} ?
Gap reductions can be used to demonstrate inapproximability results, as if a problem may be approximated to a better factor than the size of gap, then the approximation algorithm can be used to solve the corresponding gap problem.
{\displaystyle 1,1,1,1,2,2,1,1,1,2,1,1,2,4,2,1,4,1,1,2,4,2,3,2,1,6,1,1,6,4,3,1,...} (sequence A202084 in the OEIS).
He writes: "There is a mathematical proof that the only way to break the cryptosystem (within some formal attack model) on its random instances is by being able to solve the underlying lattice problem in the worst case" (emphasis in the original).
Riemann hypothesis: do the nontrivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function lie on the critical line 1 / 2 + i t {\displaystyle 1/2+it} with real t {\displaystyle t} ?
Some Aspect of Cauchy's Problem Proceedings of 1954 ICM vol III section II (analysis half-hour invited address) p.
Over the years, Simpson's memorial slowly fell into disrepair and a new plinth was constructed, secured into the mountainside with steel rods.
He jettisoned his main parachute and deployed his reserve parachute; however, by the time he performed the maneuver, he was already at such a low altitude that he struck the ground before his reserve canopy was able to inflate.
After Alexander I's renouncement of the throne in 1442 in favor of Vakhtang IV, Demetrius remained a co-king with the latter, whereas Alexander's third son, George VIII, was made a co-king appanaged in Kakheti.
This city was a base from which the Egyptian Fatimids launched frequent raids on the Kingdom of Jerusalem and Fulk sought to neutralise this threat.
Death On August 16, 1920, while at bat, Chapman was struck in the head and killed by a pitch thrown by Carl Mays during a game against the New York Yankees at the Polo Grounds.
Claude William Wilson (12 May 1858 – 29 June 1881) was an English amateur footballer who played in the 1880 FA Cup Final for Oxford University and made two appearances for England.
In 2011, Cheptegei started the year finishing 55th in the senior race final at the 39th IAAF World Cross Country Championships, Punta Umbria.
He died later the same night at a hospital in Interlaken after undergoing several blood transfusions.
William Richard Harry (30 November 1877 – 21 February 1943) was an Australian rules footballer who played in one game for Carlton in 1906.
Lou Gehrig - New York Yankees's first baseman who was forced into retirement after being diagnosed with ALS, he would ultimately die from the disease, two years later in 1941.
On July 5, 2006, Hickey was appointed to the Executive Council of Newfoundland and Labrador as Minister of Transportation and Works and Minister of Labrador Affairs.
Television Richardson made her American television debut in a small role in the 1984 miniseries Ellis Island.
Niaré competed at the 2001 World Championships, the 2006 European Championships, the 2007 World Championships, the 2008 Olympic Games and the 2009 World Championships without reaching the final.
Initial experiments conducted with dummies dropped from the fifth floor of his apartment building had been successful, but he was unable to replicate those early successes with any of his subsequent designs.
He received an officer's commission in the 6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles in December 1991, and served as an Army Officer until 1995.
He made his competitive debut for Darmstadt on 5 August 2018, coming on as an 80th-minute substitute in a 1–0 win against Paderborn 07 in their opening game of the season.
Reactions to Hickstead's death Hickstead really was a horse in a million and my heart goes out to Eric and everyone connected with this wonderful horse.
Later that year, Leary and Dean Potter set the speed record on The Nose, finishing the 2,900 feet (880 m) foot climb in two hours, 36 minutes, and 45 seconds.
Club career Cuciuffo started his professional career at Chaco For Ever, and later played for Talleres de Córdoba, Vélez Sársfield, Boca Juniors and Belgrano de Córdoba.
The son of Carter and Peggy Thornton of Threave Main Stud farm, he grew up in the Lexington, Kentucky, area and attended the private Sayre School and the Iroquois Polo Club.
Two years later, playing for Whitehaven, Folley was hit underneath the eye in a freak accident while batting in a match against Workington, and was taken to local hospital for a minor operation to repair his perforated eyeball.
Free scores by Mieczysław Karłowicz at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP) Complete CD discography of Karłowicz up to 2009 "Karłowicz's Stone - the last itinerary of Mieczyslaw Karłowicz (music, photos, videos, maps)".
As a result, in March 1844, 22 students left Pressburg in protest; 13 of them went to study at the Evangelical Lýceum in the town of Levoča (Lőcse).
He was shot by mistake by the Emperor when the latter aimed his rifle at a deer and Prince Adam Franz got into the line of fire.
Professional results Death On 18 July, during the fifteenth stage of the 1995 Tour de France, Casartelli and a few other riders crashed on the descent of the Col de Portet d'Aspet mountain pass in the Pyrenees.
At the Harworth and Bircotes Sports and Social Club, there is a museum dedicated to Simpson's memory.
He supported the aviation pioneer Jan Kašpar and supported collecting expeditions including that of Rudolf Grauer (1870–1927).
At the 2015 IAAF World Cross Country Championships, Tirop became the second-youngest ever gold medallist in the women's race, after Zola Budd.
Richard was employed as a clerk, and then as Private Secretary to Colonel Taylor, at the Treasury, until he died, without either marriage or issue, after falling off his horse during a hunt near Bicester on 29 October 1873, and after a shooting accident during November 1873, when he was aged 41.
The victory put Owen in contention for a rematch against Rodríguez and the fight was confirmed at the start of 1980, due for the early months of the year.
Tirop entered the senior ranks in the 2015 season and immediately performed well, winning the Eldoret Discovery Cross Country in Kenya.
It was the first time in more than thirty years that a bullfighter had died during a corrida in Spain (excluding the banderilleros Manolo Montoliú and Ramón Soto Vargas, who died in 1992), the last before Barrio having been José Cubero Sánchez "el Yiyo" on 30 August 1985 at Colmenar Viejo, Madrid.
He later studied in Berlin with Heinrich Urban, to whom he dedicated his Serenade for Strings, which he composed and performed while Urban's student.
In 1985 he bettered his effort of four years earlier by making 1,900 runs at 54.28, and was rewarded with a tour of Sri Lanka with the England B side.
John Jeirus Barnett (December 16, 1879 – September 3, 1923) was an American professional baseball player who played outfielder in the major leagues for the 1907 St.
He competed in his new speciality at the 2007 World Championships in Athletics, but did not manage to finish the race.
Tirop's father and brother had previously testified that Rotich didn't allow Tirop to communicate with her family or financially assist them.
Life and work Oberländer was born in Úpice, Bohemia, Austria-Hungary to the German speaking Jewish industrialist family of Moritz Jakob (1831–1905) and Marie née Morawetz.
A keen parachutist, he died around 2:45 pm on Friday, 4 July 2003, at Hibaldstow Airfield, when both his main and reserve parachutes failed to operate correctly.
References External links Oluyemi Kayode at databaseOlympics Oluyemi Kayode at the Commonwealth Games Federation Archived 12 September 2021 at the Wayback Machine
A feature of the wings was a device to prevent them from opening out too far and ripping his arms from their sockets.
See also List of South Asian Games gold medalists in athletics List of Sri Lankan sportspeople References External links Kawshalya Madushani at World Athletics Kawshalya Madushani at InterSportStats
Patch appears as a "daring moral hero" in the works of Hawthorne and Melville, and also appears in the poem "Paterson" by William Carlos Williams.
Bad weather and the delay in his arrival drew a disappointingly small crowd for this jump, so Patch announced he would repeat the feat a second time from the greater height of 120 feet (37 m) on October 17.
He was the supreme governor of Al Andalus from 1126 to 1137 and would in these years, lead the Almoravids to some notable victories (Aceca in 1130, Fraga in 1134, Badajoz in 1134, Escalona 1137) but he also suffered some losses therein.
Walker married Olympic ski racer Skeeter Werner in 1969, and they lived in her hometown of Steamboat Springs, Colorado.
Dejene Berhanu (December 12, 1980 – August 29, 2010) was a male Ethiopian runner, who specialized in the 5000 metres.
According to a report published on sports magazine Krira Jagat in 1990, Shah Alam joined Bangladesh Army as a Sepahi in 1977 and started participating in inter-unit competitions where he gained instant success.
On 7 September 2000, Anugo was killed after being hit by a car in Sydney, Australia, where he had recently completed team trials in preparation for the Olympics.
Ski Team first wore crash helmets at the 1956 Winter Olympics, but most of the Europeans went without.
On December 9, 2017, Hickey was seriously injured when he accidentally shot himself in the face in a hunting accident.
He had two international caps for his country's national team, whom he represented at the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations.
He scored his first goal for the club and the second of his career on 15 August 2015; a late penalty in a 2–0 victory at home to Stuttgarter Kickers.
Cheptegei finished 3rd in the Quanzhou Half Marathon in 2016, and 12th in the Shanghai Half Marathon in 2017.
1975) Westenholz, who lived at Little Blakesware, Hertfordshire, died at age 60 in a skiing accident on 9 March 2006.
He was killed in 1981 during the third of four runs of the four-man event at the World Championships in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, held at the track used for the 1956 Winter Olympics.
Transition to marathon Despite the fact that Goumri was 21st at the 2007 IAAF World Cross Country Championships, a strong overall team performance (including Anis Selmouni and Ahmed Baday) brought him his first team silver medal at the event.
In 1911, he was heading an expedition into South Sudan along with Richard Štorch (1877–1927) and Bedřich Machulka (1875–1954).
The decision would plunge Pegu and Ava into the fiercest battles of the Forty Years' War in the following years, and bring Pegu to the brink of defeat.
To avoid capture, Hallam bailed out of the balloon's basket but he was obstructed from jumping clear, and fell several hundred feet to his death after his emergency parachute failed to deploy.
1413 – 1453) was the second son of King Alexander I of Georgia by his first wife Dulandukht Orbelian.
Club career Early career Born on 2 May 1991 in Leonberg, Hertner started his career at the academy of KSG Gerlingen, before joining the academy of VfB Stuttgart in 2005.
During this time, he gained his nickname "Stanley", after forgetting a climbing hammer during an expedition and instead bringing a Stanley brand claw hammer.
He set a Moroccan record of 2:05:30 hours for third at the 2008 London Marathon, becoming the sixth fastest marathoner at that point.
Morosini's death came four weeks after Fabrice Muamba suffered a cardiac arrest in an English FA Cup match, after which awareness of heart risk had been raised in Italian football.
Four years later, when Atlanta, United States hosted The Games, he ended up in 53rd place, clocking 2:22:11.
Marriage and children He married in Madrid in 1677 the Spanish Doña Juana Monica de Aragon y Benavidez (†1691), daughter of the 6th Duke of Segorbe.
According to the memoirs of his grandson Charles-Joseph de Ligne, he died while hunting, waiting for a wild boar.
(The song can be heard on a 2012 release by the Diversions record label, The Finck Album, sung by Mart Sander.) Personal life Before entering service for World War I, Hallam fell in love with Elsie Janis, with whom he had starred in The Passing Show of 1915.
His personal best throw in the shot put was 20.72 metres, a French national record, achieved in May 2008 in Versailles.
His WJR time of 26:41.75 was good enough for third place in the race behind Kenenisa Bekele's world record, set in the same race, of 26:17.53 and Boniface Kiprop's 26:39.77.
Oberländer's trophies and specimens were distributed to a number of museums including the Natural History Museum in Vienna.
4 (The Most Beautiful Songs) Z nowa wiosna O nie wierz temu, co powiedza ludzie Czasem, gdy długo Rdzawe liście Pod jaworem słowa Pod naszymi okny Piano (solo) Preludium i fuga podwójna, Op.
1851–1897) was an American inventor, credited with introducing electric motors for the purpose of marine propulsion.
According to al-Maqrizi, in 1403 Emperor Dawit pursued the Sultan of Ifat, Sa'ad ad-Din II, to Zeila, where he killed Sa'ad ad-Din and sacked the city.
His maternal grandmother's father was John Allen Olton who owned the Harrow estate in Saint Philip, Barbados.
His son Cesare commissioned from Leone a more public monument, a bronze Triumph of Ferrante Gonzaga over Envy, (1564), which stands in Piazza Roma, Guastalla.
His brother was the interior designed and fellow skier, Piers von Westenholz, whose second wife Jane is one of the official Queen's companions to Queen Camilla.
He boxed one professional boxing match in the heavyweight class in 2003, which he beat his opponent Peter Simko on technical knockout after 25 seconds.
Additional film credits include Blow Dry (2001), Chelsea Walls (2001), Waking Up in Reno (2002), Maid in Manhattan (2002), Asylum (2005), which won Richardson a second Evening Standard Award for Best Actress, The White Countess (2005), and Evening (2007).
He did not play a Test or one-day international on the tour, and was never again picked for England.
His first rodeo awards were won when he was 10, at the "Little Buckaroos" Rodeos held in Uintah Basin: first in bareback, second in calf roping, and third in the "bull riding" (calf riding) event.
Deaths in motorsport can be categorised as follows: Driver deaths in motorsport This section covers all driver deaths in car or truck racing events.
In 2013, a new road was named in her honour on the former Ipswich Airport site, providing access to the employment use portions of Ravenswood.
He became a member of the Lexington Police Department's narcotics squad in the early 1970s and worked on narcotics investigations with the Louisville office of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
While Bahram was occupied with the war with the Romans, his eastern neighbours—Kidarites—crossed the Oxus river and invaded the Sasanian realm, conquering the rich city of Marw and even reaching as far as westwards as Ray.
He was shot accidentally by a friend whilst being part of a shooting expedition at Lake Ellesmere / Te Waihora.
Achievements References (in Spanish) Spanish Olympic Committee Archived 2006-09-26 at the Wayback Machine (in English) sports-reference
Henri Louis Ernest of Ligne (2 February 1644 – 8 February 1702) was a Southern Netherlands nobleman from the House of Ligne and the 4th Prince of Ligne, Amboise, and Épinoy.
Marie Louise Élisabeth d'Alençon (posthumously, Palace of Versailles, 16 June 1714 – 17 June 1714, Palace of Versailles).
One of two five-wicket hauls he took, these figures came for the Marylebone Cricket Club against Nottinghamshire in 1874.
Larger Ava forces not only broke the siege but also sacked the main Pegu forward base at Nawin, near Prome, on 26 December 1402.
He set his personal best (2:08:31) in the classic distance on 26 September 1999, at the Berlin Marathon, where he finished third.
Deaths among racers and spectators were numerous in the early years of racing, but advances in safety technology, and specifications designed by sanctioning bodies to limit speeds, have reduced the rate of fatal accidents.
Another possible sign of their arrival is an itinerary of a journey from Venice by Rhodes, Cyprus, Jerusalem, Cairo and Axum to the court of Preste John in Shewa.
Education Emeric was educated in a strict and ascetic spirit by the Benedictine monks from Venice, Gerard, from the age of 15 to 23.
She claimed her second national title at the 2017 National Athletics Championships which she successfully defended.
Foley had nine DGA Award nominations and 21 Emmy nominations—a record for a single person working on a variety series.
The coronation of Fulk and Melisende took place on 14 September, the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, in the Church of the Holy Sepulcher.
London 2012 Olympics During a segment of the opening ceremony of the 2012 Summer Olympics entitled "Happy and Glorious", Sutton served as a stunt double of James Bond on a helicopter in a filmed portion of the segment.
Bundesliga come the end of the season, Hertner signed a two-year contract extension with Aue in February 2016, which would keep him at the club until the summer of 2018.
Both sustained serious head injuries and were evacuated by helicopter to Innsbruck's university hospital, where Cavagnoud was found to have serious brain damage and succumbed to her injuries two days later.
This allowed the CID to trace his accomplices, including the handler but the handler had escaped to LTTE controlled areas while another female Tamil arrested for questioning committed suicide by swallowing a cyanide capsule she had hidden inside her vagina.
Biography His parents were Ferdinand, 2nd Prince of Schwarzenberg (1652–1703) and Countess Maria Anna von Sulz (1653–1698).
Over the next two seasons, he averaged less than thirty with the ball, taking 129 wickets, and in one match, had match figures of 12/57.
Theatrical career He began his career in Shakespearean roles with Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree's company in 1908.
The memorial has become a pilgrimage to cyclists, who pass the memorial and frequently leave tributes such as drinking bottles and caps.
Sri Lanka's national athletics coach Lakshman de Alwis, politician Jeyaraj Fernandopulle, former Olympics runner K.A.
He died in a snowboarding accident at Whiteface Mountain in Lake Placid, New York, five days after his 26th birthday.
Three tourists of Russian origin in the Cruiser were injured from the accident and taken to the hospital in critical condition, while Njiru was proclaimed dead on the spot.
"It was the greatest surprise I have ever seen in my life", remarked his coach, Federico Rosa, on the performance.
Often translated as 'favourite', 'trusted advisor' is a better description of the role; it was used in Spain in various forms from the 15th century to the late 18th century and formalised by Philip IV in 1620.
Thinle died on April 24, 2016, in Dolpa, Nepal after falling from the trail whilst riding a horse, aged 72.
By 1106 Fulk's father had been forced to yield control of the county to his eldest son, Fulk's half-brother Geoffrey IV.
Police repelled a mob headed for the home of Commander Jorge de Asumbuja who they accused of ordering the firing of tear gas into the stands.
Rochester Shortly after, Patch went to Rochester, New York, to challenge the 94-foot (29 m) High Falls of the Genesee River.
In 1991 he was given a second chance, playing for Derbyshire, but his first-team performances did not live up to his earlier performances.
Alam was killed in a motorcycle accident on the Kushtia highway near Pabna while returning from Kushtia.
In 1685, he succeeded his maternal uncle, John Francis Desideratus, Prince of Nassau-Siegen, as Stadtholder of Limburg.
Her last victory was in March 2001 in giant slalom at the national championships in Courchevel, France.
The sound of the ball striking Chapman's skull was so loud that Mays thought it had hit the end of Chapman's bat; he fielded the ball and threw to first base.
Gardiner arranged a high-profile bout with American Jose Gonzalez in an attempt to immediately showcase Owen internationally again but the fight was postponed when Gonzalez failed to make weight.
In World War II, Jack Lummus and Charlie Behan were posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor and the Navy Cross, respectively.
In 2000, Westenholz, a former director of Grindlay Brandts, was a member of the Jupiter International board of directors.
He also made endowments to the Ethiopian Church: three charters survive of grants he made of lands in Wolqayt, Serae, Adiyabo, Shire, Addi Arkay, northern Semien, the Gar'alta, Manbarta, and Karnesem which lies north of present-day Asmara.
Each player is listed with the team to which he was assigned at the time of his death, rather than the team with which he spent most of his career.
His first two marriages were to suitable brides chosen from the royal family of Jodhpur, whose Rajput heritage and social ranking were similar to his own.
According to Bradshaw, the two men were walking down Shaftesbury Avenue after Hallam's show when "we were both surrounded by young, stupid, and screaming girls who stuck white feathers into the lapels of our coats.
Competition record Personal bests Outdoor 200 metres – 20.76 (-1.0 m/s, Athens 1991) Indoor 200 metres – 21.09 (Seville 1991) References All-Athletics profile
In this year, a poem of Štúr's was published in printed form for the first time: Óda na Hronku ("An ode to Hronka").
World War II Vietnam War War in Afghanistan See also List of NFL players in World War II List of American football players who died during their careers == References ==
After training with the Nigerian team in Adelaide, Australia, Anugo was ultimately not selected during final selections.
He made the wings from zephyr cloth mounted on steel tubes, forming a large web under each arm which was clasped to his hips.
Media depiction Despite the concern of his widow, the death of Lindsay was portrayed in the Netflix drama The Crown in 2020 for its fourth season.
In an attempt to secure their independence, the Gran Colombian insurgents and the Aury flotilla fitted a combined sea and land expedition to operate against the ports of Omoa and Trujillo, in Honduras.
His main honor was the silver medal at the 2009 European Indoor Championships with a throw of 20.42 metres.
However, in October that year he made his international debut on the roads, finishing 4th at the Trento Half Marathon and then six days later finishing 4th at the Giro al Sas road race in Italy.
Running with the leaders through the halfway mark in a blistering 63:15, Berhanu faded after 30 km and finished ninth in a time of 2:12:27.
Career Theatre Richardson began her career in regional theatre at Leeds Playhouse, and in 1984 at the Open Air Theatre in London's Regent's Park, when she appeared in A Midsummer Night's Dream with Ralph Fiennes and Richard E.
Two years after Griscom died in an 1897 hunting accident, his company was acquired by Rice's new Electric Boat Company.
The IFC comedy sketch show The Birthday Boys referenced the story of Sam Patch as a running gag/call back during the 4th episode of their second season entitled "Freshys".
He taught in the Francis II Rákóczi Primary School between 1965 and 1970, while graduated from the Teacher Training College of Eger in 1967.
The oldest of twelve children, Harry was recruited to Carlton by Jack Worrall and made his debut in Round 11, 1906, against Collingwood at Princes Park.
He was regarded as among the most promising young talents of the Austrian downhill team of the early 1990s.
In the autumn of 1850, he attempted but failed to receive a license to publish a Slovak national newspaper.
Death On 25 August 2007, Puerta collapsed and lost consciousness in the penalty area due to a cardiac arrest during Sevilla's first La Liga fixture of the 2007–08 campaign at the Ramón Sánchez-Pizjuán Stadium against Getafe CF.
Upon the death of Vakhtang IV in 1446, Demetrius III was to become de jure king-regnant of Georgia, but the throne was seized by George VIII, inaugurating a series of conflicts which would eventually lead to the dissolution of the kingdom of Georgia by the close of the 15th century.
Bahram finds out that his realm is in turmoil, the royal treasury has been depleted and the neighboring kingdoms are posed to invade.
Valenzuela came from the lower ranks of Spanish nobility or hidalgos and his appointment was resented by the grandees, the upper nobility who dominated government appointments.
In response the producers responded by stating that they understood her concerns but the accident would still be portrayed in the series as they deal with difficult subjects with integrity and great sensitivity.
At the 2015 USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships, Torrence finished fifth in a tactical 5000 meters with a time of 13:52.24.
On 4 July 2009, he signed a three-year deal with Le Mans FC, and was initially assigned to the reserve squad in the Championnat de France Amateur.
She achieved her third national title in women's 400m hurdles at the 2019 National Athletics Championships.
He produced and directed all 72 episodes of Live on Letterman including concerts with The Black Keys, The Killers, Adele, Phoenix, Taylor Swift, and Tim McGraw.
At the 2000 Junior World Championships in Berchtesgaden, she earned gold in the parallel giant slalom and bronze in the parallel slalom.
He was concerned that the parachute needed longer to fully open than the few seconds the drop from the first platform would allow, and he also presented other technical objections to which Reichelt could not provide a satisfactory response.
Career Out of the Merivale club, Cooke was described as "a fine halfback, exceptionally quick at getting the ball away from the scrum and also a powerful and accurate line kicker".
During his time with the police, Thornton was a part-time student at the University of Kentucky College of Law, earning a Juris Doctor in 1976.
In May 2024, the organization opened a centre in Iten that will serve as a shelter for victims of violence and abuse.
He could fight for hours, and would wear opponents down by outlasting them." Jones also stated that Owen's stamina made him an ideal fighter in the professional ranks where fights often went over ten rounds compared to his amateur career, where fights typically lasted three.
Biography In 1987 his 7:47.61 on the 3000 metres indoor was the second best season performance at the world.
At the 2013 USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships, Torrence finished seventh in a tactical 1500 meters with a time of 3:46.26.
Death and legacy On 14 April 2012, while representing Livorno, Morosini suffered cardiac arrest and fell to the ground in the 31st minute of the Serie B match away to Pescara.
Basil Hallam Radford (3 April 1888 – 20 August 1916) was an English actor and singer, known for the character of Gilbert the Filbert in The Passing Show.
He was twelfth in the final rankings for Snowboard Cross at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy.
On the drive, his sedan car collided head-on with a Toyota Land Cruiser headed in the opposite direction.
In 1881 The Franklin Institute awarded him what was then their highest honor, the Elliott Cresson Medal, for a combination motor and battery that powered a sewing machine.
At that time, Faulat was the largest single-purpose shirt manufacturer in the world, employing some 3,000 people.
Doctor Francisco Murillo reported that he had suffered multiple organ failure and irreversible brain damage as a result of multiple prolonged cardiac arrests due to an incurable, hereditary heart disease known as arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy.
He started out strong in his sophomore season, but suffered an injury and was forced to miss the Indoor Championships and Redshirt his outdoor season.
He was a member of the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sports from 28 June 1994 to 17 June 1998.
Kayode won the silver medal in 4 × 100 m relay at the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, together with teammates Chidi Imoh, Olapade Adeniken and Davidson Ezinwa.
Lined up for an England team spot, he suffered an injury to his left arm, and quit the game, after tours to Jamaica and Zimbabwe.
In 1990 Kushnaryov was elected to both the Kharkiv City Council and the Verkhovna Rada, where he took part in formulating the fledgling country's constitution, and in 1994 he became mayor of the city of Kharkiv.
Fulk subsequently sent the ivory tau back to his palace at Angers with instructions that it should be used to ceremonially receive counts of Anjou.
He made his debut for 1860 Munich, coming on as a half-time substitute for Grzegorz Wojtkowiak in a DFB-Pokal 4–3 penalties victory over 1.
See also Sudden cardiac death of athletes List of National Football League players who died in wars Notes == References ==
Diego García Corrales (October 12, 1961 – March 31, 2001) was a Spanish long-distance athlete from Spain, who finished in 9th place (2:14.56) in the men's marathon at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.
Richard had three siblings: Reynold Clement (1834 - 1905), Rosalie Philippa Hampden Clement (1838 - 1912), and Helena Rebecca Clement (1853 - 1935).
He went on to compete at the Rodeo '88 Challenge Cup held as part of the Cultural Olympiad in association with the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary.
In October 1944, he joined General de Monsabert as a commander of the French Army reserve destined to occupy Germany.
Odlum's elder brother David served under the name "Charles Rogers" in the 8th Missouri Infantry Regiment of the Union Army in the American Civil War, and disappeared after the Battle of Shiloh; it was never known whether he had been killed, captured or had deserted.
References External links Mohamed Shah Alam at World Athletics Mohamed Shah Alam at Olympics.com Mohamed Shah Alam at Olympedia Mohamed Shah Alam at the Commonwealth Games Federation (archived) Mohamed Shah Alam at InterSportStats
Johnstone inherited from his father the Westerhall estate on Grenada, and was paid compensation for it under the Slave Compensation Act 1837.
A year before his death he had her married, but on the condition that the husband should not exercise his marital rights.
He subsequently resigned from the Ulster Unionist Party and formed the Unionist Party of Northern Ireland.
Barrio took his alternativa at Madrid's Las Ventas bullring on 8 April 2012, which was Easter Sunday.
See also List of New South Wales representative cricketers References External links Walter Duff at ESPNcricinfo
Works The crucifix of Mount Sëura Sas, carved in wood on the mountain itself with Vincenzo Peristi, currently exhibited in the Museum of Val Gardena in Urtijëi.
Marriage On account of the prestige of his birth, cadet branches of the royal family saw in him a highly desirable match for their daughters.
After graduating in 2005, he joined the Toyota Kyūshū athletics team, coached by 1992 Olympic marathon silver medalist Koichi Morishita.
Deaths in this form of motorsport often occur when the car leaves the road and crashes into something on the roadside or suffers a significant fall.
Outdoors, he ran a leg on the 4 × 100 m relay at the NCAA Outdoor Championships but finished 7th in the heats and did not qualify for the final.
A statue was erected, and The Azkoitia-Azpeitia Half Marathon was renamed to Diego Garcia Memorial in his honour.
Club career Born in Seville, Andalusia, Puerta joined Sevilla FC as a boy and spent a total of 14 years at the club, growing up at its acclaimed youth system alongside other players such as Alejandro Alfaro, Kepa Blanco, Jesús Navas, Sergio Ramos and José Antonio Reyes.
Driver and co-driver deaths in rallying events Rallying is an offroad motorsport, generally featuring a number of timed stages on varying surfaces to crown an overall winner.
In Reims, on 7 May 1945, acting in his capacity as deputy to General Alphonse Juin, he signed the German Instrument of Surrender as the official witness, in the presence of General Alfred Jodl and General Walter B.
He made his international athletics debut at the 1994 European Cup, and competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics, 1997 World Championships and 1998 European Championships without reaching the final rounds.
Although there were no viable parachuting solutions for use in aeroplanes when Reichelt began developing his suit, a patent for a packable parachute had been applied for by Gleb Kotelnikov.
Ferrante I Gonzaga (also Ferdinando I Gonzaga; 28 January 1507 – 15 November 1557) was an Italian condottiero, a member of the House of Gonzaga and the founder of the branch of the Gonzaga of Guastalla.
Other attempted insurrections followed, including one by Carlos Rangel Garviras, head of the Autonomous Party of the Andes from Colombia.
According to Černý, Beneš used such violent and vulgar language about Stalin that he did not bother writing down the president's commentary, believing it was unpublishable.
By 2001, over a dozen principal warehouses throughout the country enabled widespread distribution of Tiko products to urban and rural areas, with a flagship warehouse in the Akorandrano neighborhood of Antananarivo.
In 1914, after the death of three anti-militarist demonstrators, insurrections broke out across much of Italy for a week, which became known as "Red Week".
Also, with the Popular Front victory, radicalized peasants led by the Socialists began seizing land on 25 March.
He would frequent Sanson's farm in Borbon, suggesting he was aware of the identity of his real father.
D'Aragona was the minister of posts and communications in the fourth cabinet of De Gasperi and minister of transport in the sixth cabinet of De Gasperi.
Tuğba Hezer Öztürk (born 4 October 1989, Erciş, Turkey) is a Turkish politician from Kurdish descent of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and a former Member of the Grand National Assembly for of Van.
While in exile, he gave an interview to The Indian Express, alleging that the July Uprising was the result of a "joint coup by Islamic terrorists and the army".
Political career In 1922, Saragat joined the Unitary Socialist Party (Partito Socialista Unitario; PSU) under the influence of Piero Gobetti, and began collaborating with Claudio Treves' journal La Giustizia.
The new junta under the leadership of Traoré later accused Damiba of trying to flee towards the French military base of Camp Kamboinsin in order to mount a counter-coup.
While Çelikbilek and Koç fled Belgium, they were later convicted in absentia and sentenced to five years in prison by the Brussels Court of Appeals in 2024.
Correa has denied all wrongdoing, and has called the charges against him politically motivated attempts to discredit his movement.
Autobiography of Giacomo Ferrari the noble revolutionary) (ISBN 9788890852428) which features articles about his struggle against Fascists in Parma in 1922.
Radio Pública, El Ciudadano, ANDES and PP were also created under Correa's presidency and are administered by state agencies.
Prior to his accession in 1944, Osmeña served as governor of Cebu from 1906 to 1907, member and first speaker of the Philippine House of Representatives from 1907 to 1922, and senator from the 10th senatorial district for thirteen years, in which capacity he served as Senate president pro tempore.
Almonte was once again made Minister of War, and he counseled President Paredes to seek foreign allies to give Mexico a fighting chance against the United States.
In January 2026, he was arrested, tried and extradited to Burkina Faso over the accusations against him.
Marcos had provided favors to the Soviets such as allowing the banned Philippine Communist Party to visit the Soviet Union for consultations.
Post-war return to politics In May 1945 Honecker was "picked up" by chance in Berlin by Hans Mahle and taken to the Ulbricht Group, a collective of exiled German communists that had returned from the Soviet Union to Germany after the end of the Nazi regime.
In addition to other awards, Hochmuth received the Vaterländischer Verdienstorden in silver in 1960 and in gold in 1974, and in 1979 the clasp of honor for the Patriotic Order of Merit.
Debry was again elected in September 1792, as a representative of Aisne in the new National Convention.
Magloire was very fond of a vivid social life, staging numerous parties, social events, and ceremonies.
According to Anders Åslund (in October 2012) Tabachnyk "could hardly care less about the real problems in Ukrainian education" but instead "His endeavor to sovietize Ukrainian historiography and promote russification attracts most attention".
Early life and writings Rómulo Gallegos was born in Caracas to Rómulo Gallegos Osío and Rita Freire Guruceaga, into a family of humble origin.
The award includes a cash prize of €100,000 making it among the richest literary prizes in the world.
As such, the Plenary Chamber of the Supreme Tribunal of Justice would decide whether to strip the deputy of his parliamentary immunity.
As minister of Foreign Affairs, he was instrumental in breaking the proto-fascist feud led by poet Gabriele D'Annunzio in Fiume.
His grandparents fled Ukraine when it was part of the Soviet Union and settled in Cuba where they lived for 43 years; in 1970, they escaped from Cuba to Venezuela when his father was 13 years old.
There he organized the local branch of the Turkish Human Rights Association (IHD) and joined the first Kurdish party in Turkey, the People's Labor Party (HEP).
Founding member of the Marxist Socialist Workers Party (PST), of which he was secretary general in the 1980s.
Republican activist In 1915 Just joined the Juventud Nacionalista Republicana (Republican Nationalist Youth).
On 8 March 2013, a 17-year-old student Tanvir Mohammad Toki, as found dead in Narayanganj two days after he had gone missing.
In January 2014, after a court decided the imprisonment their imprisonment violated their human rights, since they were elected as MPs, he was released from prison together with Selma Irmak, Gülser Yıldırım, Kemal Aktas and Ibrahim Ayhan.
On August 7, Iskender Pasha entered Bucharest with ten Ottoman Cossacks, meeting Cantacuzino for advice on how to run the transition of power.
After the victory of the Republicans and due to the Amnesty Law issued by the government of Benito Juárez, the former General López Uraga recovered ownership of the Islas Marías in 1878.
President Paredes had made Almonte minister to France in March, but while he was headed to Europe, Almonte encountered Santa Anna in Cuba, who was now plotting to return to Mexico in the midst of an anti-Paredes coup which had come about after months of Mexican military failures.
His father was a descendant of the Counts of Castel San Giovanni, an illegitimate branch of the House of Sforza who had ruled the Duchy of Milan in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.
He was elected to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 1991 on a ticket with the Social Democratic Populist Party for the Siirt province.
Furthermore, his own companies tended to be awarded most of the government contracts for which they bid, although this occurred transparently and legally, due to a weak legal framework around conflict of interest.
A secretariat committee composed of Oddino Morgari, Giuseppe Saragat and Angelo Tasca assumed the post on 2 September 1939.
842–847), he was one of the targets of a general crackdown against the government secretaries in 843-4, during which he and his subordinates were fined and forced to hand over one million gold dinars to the caliph.
She graduated from a conservatory and worked as a teacher during which she became familiar with the anti-Fascist movement.
Sivoli participated in the extraordinary session of the National Assembly on 26 December 2020 in which the extension of the Assembly's mandate was approved.
D'Aragona served as the minister of labor and social security in the second government of Alcide De Gasperi between 1946 and 1947.
In that year Hurricane Hazel ravaged the country, and funds intended to provide relief for the populace were often stolen before they could reach those in need.
In addition, D'Aragona was the director of the weekly magazine Il Lavoro socialista in 1946, of the fortnightly magazine Battaglie sindacali in the period 1947–1948, and of the weekly magazine Democrazia socialista in 1949.
Due to political persecution, he fled to Vienna in 1926 (joined by his wife in 1927) and then to France in 1929.
His novel Doña Bárbara was first published in 1929 and it was because of the book's criticisms of the regime of longtime dictator Juan Vicente Gómez that he was forced to flee the country.
Enter its humble hearths and raise the legions of proletarians that the world may tremble before their awakened judges.
A federal republican, he briefly served as civil governor of Madrid and as Minister of War in the wake of the proclamation of the First Spanish Republic.
On 30 September 2022, Damiba was ousted by the dissatisfied army elements headed by Captain Ibrahim Traoré.
He served in the Council of Five Hundred for the entire duration of the Directory regime and as its president between December 1796 and January 1797, seating with the Thermidorians as a dedicated supporter of the Republic.
State Department to the United States embassies in Moscow and Mexico City and consulates in Saigon and Singapore.
The latter measures were clearly aimed at keeping Ben Ali in office; he faced having to give up the presidency in 2004.
After Juan Guaidó was declared Venezuela's acting president, Olivares began assisting Guaidó in his efforts to bring humanitarian aid to Venezuela.
As the situation in the Philippines worsened, Aquino decided to return to face Marcos and restore democracy in the country, despite numerous threats against him.
He served as a deputy at the Italian Parliament and as a secretary general of the Italian Socialist Party for a short period between 1948 and 1949.
At this time he began distance learning at the Deutsche Akademie für Staats- und Rechtswissenschaft „Walter Ulbricht“ (German Academy for Political Science and Law "Walter Ulbricht").
See also Liste des membres de la Convention nationale par département (in French) Liste des présidents de la Convention nationale (in French) References Richard Ballard: The Unseen Terror .
He acquired a considerable reputation, but in 1843 his political opinions brought him under the suspicion of the police and caused his expulsion from the Papal States.
He was implicated in the Revolt of 1 prairial year III (20 May 1795) and condemned to deportation before being given an amnesty.
He was for a time the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Venezuela to France during the 1930s.
On September 21, he rode back to Bucharest, presenting his services to the Ottoman Army under Fuad Pasha; reportedly, he had been called back by Duhamel.
In 1957, he directed his first full-length film, La grande strada azzurra (The Wide Blue Road), which foreshadowed his mature style of later films.
Ideology Vallenilla was "largely responsible for developing a body of historical and sociological theory dealing with issues of race, power relations, and social development".
He wrote about trade union topics in the newspaper Avanti and then directed a magazine entitled Vita workeria.
Thermidor and the Directory In 1794, Barras sided with the men who sought to overthrow Maximilien Robespierre's faction.
Early life and family Osman was born on 28 February 1961 to a Bengali Muslim political family in Narayanganj, East Pakistan.
Carmen María Sivoli is a Venezuelan politician, deputy of the National Assembly for the Mérida state.
Later years During World War II Just was interned in the concentration camp of Camp Vernet near Le Vernet, Ariège from 19 February 1941 to 6 December 1941.
Political career She was elected to the Turkish Parliament as a deputy for the province of Van in June 2015 and re-elected in November 2015 as the youngest member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
Jorge Masetti, a former Argentine guerrilla working with Cuban intelligence services, describes the Somoza assassination and also asserts that Cuba had a direct role in planning it in his memoir, In the Pirate's Den (2002).
Luis Germán Florido Barreto (born September 18, 1966) is a Venezuelan politician and administrator who served as National Assembly deputy from 2016 to 2021, representing Lara State for the Voluntad Popular political party.
During the dictatorial regimen of Marcos Perez Jimenez (1952-1958), while in exile in Guatemala, he managed the same laboratory where Ernesto Guevara worked in 1954.
Renamed the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP), this new strategy was intended to build on the successes of his first term to accelerate and expand national development.
Then, with the fall of Talavera de la Reina and the Army of Morocco within reach of Madrid, Giral was forced to cede power to Francisco Largo Caballero.
Tauris, London New York 2010 ISBN 978-1-84885-325-6 Ballard, Richard, The political apprenticeship of Bernard de Saintes in History Review, issue 54 (March 2006), pp 45–50.
In Europe he joined the Kurdistan Parliament in Exile (PKDW) and later the Kurdistan National Congress (KNK) and Kurdistan Union of Communities (KCK), where he became head of the legislature in 2003.
Her second husband, Vittorio Della Porta, was a physician who left her when she was in prison in 1944.
At the end of 2008, a constitutional amendment project of Article 230 of the Venezuelan Constitution was presented by pro-government factors, whose intention is to allow the possibility of running presidential candidates continuously.
However, he was also involved in the deaths of the revolutionary leader Andrés Bonifacio and general Antonio Luna.
In late 2021, an army of jihadists overran the base of a gendarmerie in Inata, Soum, killing 49 gendarmes and four civilians.
He was deputy to the French National Convention and a member of the Chambre des représentants de France during the Hundred Days.
In November 2021 the High Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine called for Salamatin's arrest in a case of embezzlement of more than 23.87 million US dollars.
A military council would have been charged with organizing elections within 24 months and re-writing the constitution for the "Fourth Republic".
He took part in the battles of Stalingrad, Orel-Kursk, and in the liberation of Kharkiv, Kyiv, and Prague.
Honours Табачник, Дмитрий Владимирович Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise Order of Bohdan Khmelnytsky 3rd class Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic (October 28, 1996).
He published articles and poems in the newspapers "Azerbaijan", "Istiglal", "Basirat", and in the journal "Gurtulush yolu".
Like other architects of his generation he was influenced from German expressionism and the architectural approach led by Erich Mendelsohn.
The students who arrived in Paris on 11 February were welcomed by the delegation headed by Alimardan bey Topchubashi, who was participating in the Paris Peace Conference.
Ludovico D'Aragona (23 May 1876 – 17 June 1961) was an Italian socialist politician who held several government posts.
He served as the municipal councilor in Biella in 1895 and as the director of the newspaper Corriere Biellese in 1896.
Somoza also allegedly exported freshly imported emergency blood plasma abroad at the time of the earthquake, when most medical supplies in Nicaragua were desperately in short supply.
and took part in a socialist congress held between the end of May and the beginning of June that year.
Acting on Ghica's behalf, he welcomed at Calafat the Ottoman inspector, Hüseyin Pasha, with whom he discussed means of tackling Russian intrigues in Wallachia.
On 23 August 2013, Kurchenko met with the editors of Ukrainian Media Holding and presented a new structure named VETEK Media.
After the Proclamation of the Second Spanish Republic in April 1931, Azaña became Minister of War of the Provisional Government and enacted military reform, looking to develop a modern armed forces with fewer army officers.
Political Career and the Second Spanish Republic In 1929, when in the "Cárcel Modelo of Madrid" Albornoz would found, along with Marcelino Domingo, the new Radical Socialist Republican Party.
Following the final dissolution of the PSU in 1930, Saragat joined the Italian Socialist Party (Partito Socialista Italiano, PSI).
Career Calderón Berti is a former president of PDVSA (Venezuela's state-owned petroleum company), and the country's former Minister of Energy and Mines, as well as former Minister of Foreign Affairs.
After the trials, Andrés and his brother, Procopio, were ordered by the Consejo de la Guerra (Council of War) to be executed by firing squad under the command of Major Lazaro Macapagal on May 10, 1897, near Mount Nagpatong, Mount Buntis, Mount Pumutok, and Maragondon, Cavite.
See also José Gil Fortoul Venezuelan literature List of Venezuelan writers References External links Works by or about Laureano Vallenilla Lanz at the Internet Archive
A defender of the Africanness of his native Canary Islands, which were a central motif of his written work, he espoused a blend of anti-European, atheist, anticlerical, revolutionary and anarchist ideals.
Those seized during the investigation were exhibited in the National Museum of the History of Ukraine in August 2023.
Debry protested against the arrest of the Girondins following the 31 May insurrection, but then kept a low profile until the fall of Robespierre and the end of the Reign of Terror.
Shortly after his return to Italy, Rigola was elected a deputy, being the first Italian worker at the Parliament of the Kingdom of Italy.
Its influence can be seen in the few surviving works of West German filmmaker Teod Richter, made from the late 1960s up to his disappearance, and presumed death, in 1986.
Initially, Bibescu promoted him, assigning him office as an Efor of the Wallachian schools, jointly with Filipescu-Vulpea and Mihalache Ghica.
Ion remained especially prominent as a minister of the United Principalities, and from 1863 one of Cuza's leading conservative opponents; his youngest brother, Adolf Cantacuzino (married to Ecaterina Iarca), was inaugural President of the Court of Appeals.
The convention had a rolling presidency, so he held the title of President of the National Convention for three weeks in September 1794.
Álvaro de Albornoz y Liminiana (June 13, 1879, Asturias – October 22, 1954, Mexico) was a Spanish lawyer, writer, and one of the founders of the Second Republic of Spain.
He had threatened ASP Mohammad Bashiruddin for not allowing Awami League activists to stuff ballots.
He accused foreign petroleum companies operating in Ecuador of failing to meet existing environmental and investment regulations.
On February 1, Aguinaldo delivered a radio address calling upon General Douglas MacArthur and all American and Filipino troops fighting in the Battle of Bataan to surrender to the Japanese army.
From there, he went to France, where he took part with Edmondo Rossoni, Pulvio Zocchi and Ottavio Dinale in the 10th Congress of the Confédération Générale du Travail (CGT), held in October 1908.
Gisella Floreanini (3 April 1906 – 30 May 1993) was an Italian teacher and politician who was an anti-fascist activist and was a member of the Italian Parliament between 1948 and 1958.
Valeriy Myronovych Horbatov (Ukrainian: Валерій Миронович Горбатов; born 27 June 1955) is a Ukrainian politician and scientist.
The Marquis of Beauchamps, by now a cavalry colonel, had been elected in March to the Second Estate and proved a passionate supporter of the threatened Ancien Régime.
The instability finished only when François Duvalier, whom most outsiders mistook for an unworldly intellectual, achieved power.
Åslund further argued that Tabachnyk's "greatest 'reform' had been to reduce ordinary school from the European standard of [year] 12 to [year] 11, seemingly inspired by the destruction instigated by the late Turkmenbashi".
He condemned his colleague Asselin for giving refuge to the marquise Luppé de Chauny (who had been condemned to death).
"La imagen de Canarias, África y América en el pensamiento antieuropeísta de Nicolás Estévanez y Murphy (1838-1914)" (PDF).
He founded the Dohar Padma College, and served as the President of the Ispahani School and College and Tejgaon College, two reputed colleges (both founded after Bangladesh's liberation war).
He left this movement with Vicent Marco Miranda, Faustino Valentín Torrejón and Héctor Altabás Alio in 1934 after a split over support of a Valencian state within a federal Spain, and became an activist for the new Valencian nationalist party Esquerra Valenciana.
It is the release of Comrade Erich Honecker as general secretary and the election of Comrade Egon Krenz in his place." Honecker reportedly calmly responded: "Well, then I open the debate".
He was a founder, editor or contributor to various Republican newspapers and magazines including Alma Joven, Renovación, Línea, València Nova, La Voz Valenciana and Tauia de Lletres Valencianes.
He shifted Sudan's geopolitical alignment away from the Soviet Union, pivoting toward the United States, China, and conservative Arab states such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
On 22 January 2024, he was awarded the honorary Great Wall Commemorative Medal by the Chinese government.
Floreanini was among the contributors of the communist magazine Rinascita which was started in 1944.
Consulate, Empire, and exile On 9 November 1799, Ducos accepted the coup d'état of Napoleon Bonaparte (the 18 Brumaire), and was one of the three Provisional Consuls (with Napoleon and Emmanuel-Joseph Sieyès), becoming vice-president of the Senate with the arrival of a stable Consulate formula.
In October 2017, a Ukrainian court confiscated Metalist Kharkiv from Kurchenko and placed it under state property.
The Count was a member of the ancient Sforza dynasty, descendant from a branch of the Dukes of Milan, and related to the Pallavicini family as well as other Italian noble families, such as the Medici and Orsini.
He sought to gain the favor of the government of the Restoration, but in 1816 was exiled on the basis of the law regarding the regicides.
Until the end of 2012 information about Kurchenko was scarce and it surfaced with a scandal around the sale of FC Metalist Kharkiv.
Because of the scarcity of fish in nearby waters, the fisherman, Squarciò, has to sail out to the open sea, where he fishes illegally with bombs.
East Germany refused to implement similar reforms, with Honecker reportedly telling Gorbachev: "We have done our perestroika; we have nothing to restructure".
On 18 April 1951, he signed the Treaty instituting the European Coal and Steel Community, making Italy one of the founding members.
He is currently a columnist in several digital newspapers and develops a great activity in social networks since his exile in the United States, particularly on Twitter, Facebook, Periscope, radios, Zello and YouTube.
In the next year, when the Convention felt threatened by the malcontent National Guards of Paris, it appointed Barras to command the troops engaged in its defence.
Soon expelled by the Dutch authorities then in control of Belgium, he took ship for the United States but was shipwrecked at Madeira.
Coccia died in Hyères, France, on 23 December 1932, while serving as the secretary of the PSI-IOS, from heart disease resulting from a rheumatic disease which he contracted in the trenches during World War II.
He became more active with socialist activities and wrote for the "La Aurora Social," a political newspaper in Asturias.
There, he promoted the cause of radical cultural and political renewal, aligning himself with the many critics of liberal parliamentary politics.
He was a long-time member of the Democratic Action party and was named Minister of Education of Venezuela the first presidency of Carlos Andrés Pérez (1973-1978).
Following the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine Horbatov fled Kyiv and is believed (by non-governmental organisation Chesno) to have fled to the Russian-occupied territories of Ukraine.
Worried that it could deflect the rocket projectile, they chose to make a lateral attack on the vehicle.
Pontecorvo spent months, and sometimes years, researching the material for his films in order to accurately represent the social situations he explored.
He also moved to reduce the power and influence of the Roman Catholic Church, abolishing Church-operated schools and charities, and greatly expanding state-operated secular schools.
Described in police reports as an "everlasting conspirator and expert in explosive devices", he has been pointed out as a presumed plotter in the attempted regicide of Alfonso XIII on 31 May 1906.
He began his rule as a left-wing admirer of Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser, pursuing socialist and Pan-Arabist policies.
Administration In the 1947 general election he ran for the presidency of the republic as the Acción Democrática candidate and won in what is generally believed to be the country's first honest election.
As soon as he returned, he became secretary of the Chamber of Labor in Savona, Liguria, working mainly with metalworkers.
From her party, she has been given the task to raise awareness from European institutions and politicians towards the human rights violations in south east Anatolia.
During the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera he supported the opposition from his office, defending in court those involved in the Garraf plot and opposing the attempts to confiscate the family patrimony of Francesc Macià.
He was appointed a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institución Libre de Enseñanza by ministerial order on 6 August 1931.
Luna's death was publicly declared only by June 8, and a circular providing details of the event was released by June 13.
From 1909 he had important positions within the General Confederation of Labor of which he was the secretary from 1918 to 1925.
From 2009 to 2011 he attended National University Yaroslav the Wise Law Academy of Ukraine graduating with a law degree.
Whilst conservative liberals hoped to make temporary use of Mussolini's popularity in order to restore Parliament, Gobetti recognised the tyrannical orientation of fascism.
In 1899 Andrade was overthrown by Cipriano Castro, a former governor of the province of Táchira who had previously been exiled to Colombia.
In 1793 and 1794, he became notorious in the Haute-Saône and the Côte-d'Or for arresting suspected "enemies of the people", sending them to the revolutionary tribunal and the guillotine.
See also Classical radicalism Liberal socialism Social liberalism Francesco Ruffini References Further reading Martin, James (2006).
Inspired by the workers' movement and Gramsci's argument that they constituted a new revolutionary subject, Gobetti gave up editing Energie Nove in order to rethink his commitments.
However, Aquino asserted his willingness to suffer the consequences declaring, "the Filipino is worth dying for." He wished to express an earnest plea for Marcos to step down, for a peaceful regime change and a return to democratic institutions.
Anti-fascist activities and exile Following the murder of Giacomo Matteotti in June 1924 Floreanini exiled into Lugano, Switzerland, where she collaborated with other anti-fascist figures.
In 2010 after Mykola Azarov became the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Stavytsky was reinstated and later promoted to a chairman of State Service of Geology and Subsoil of Ukraine.
In August 2023 this court started an investigation into Salamatin's alleged embezzlement during his tenure at Subsidiary Company "Ukrspetsexport".
Osman received 73,349 votes while his nearest rival, Sirajul Islam of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, received 63,866 votes.
Personal life Humberto is the uncle of Coromoto Godoy, a diplomat who has served as ambassador of the governments of Hugo Chávez and Nicolás Maduro to Trinidad and Tobago, India and Spain.
They were carefully selected for their ability to create relaxed and friendly but serious relationships with the villagers, to avoid shocking them in any way while introducing them to modern culture.
Additionally, he was accused of maintaining contact, after his release, with Musavatists remaining in the camps as well as those living in Tashkent, and of intending to establish a nationalist organization composed of Azerbaijanis in Tashkent.
From 2005 to 2008, prior to the 2008 financial crisis, prices on the real estate market in Ukraine rose more than 30% per year." The biography does not mention any projects or the name of his firm.
In 2010 and 2020, he participated in the Flintlock Joint Combined Exchange Training exercises including raising awareness of human rights and laws of armed conflicts.
Presidency Presidential election of 2001 Ravalomanana ran for president in the election to be held on 16 December 2001.
In 1945 he succeeded Juan Negrín as prime minister of the Spanish Republican government in Exile until 1947.
ACC director general Akhtar Hossain stated that the investigation revealed that the former minister and his family accumulated around Tk 60.55 crore in illegal wealth and concealed Tk 416.74 crore across 36 bank accounts.
Reportedly jumping from a window where he was incarcerated to meet his rescuers, Nimeiry regained control.
According to Central Election Commission of Ukraine member Mykhaylo Okhendovsky Salamatin was legally electable in 2007, because he had been living in Ukraine the prior 5 years.
At the 1994 elections, opposition parties polled 2.25% and gained 19 of 163 seats in Parliament; the first-time opposition parties had actually managed to get into the chamber.
Franceschi has declared himself a supporter of Vox, a Spanish conservative party with which he has maintained contacts with some of its leaders.
After the failure of Diego Martínez Barrio to form a government to restrain the military revolt of 17 July 1936, Azaña ordered Giral to form a new government constituted exclusively by republicans.
Despite his later claims of heroism at the battle, there are no contemporaneous records of any awards or decorations received by Marcos, and his commander and other officers did not corroborate his claims.
One of his sons was a medical doctor and was killed in a Nazi-fascist ambush in Ponte di Lugagnano on 20 November 1944.
Regardless of whether or not this was indeed the cause of the problem, by the end of 1802 d'Angély had succeeded in getting the ban on Charles-Grégoire de Beauchamps lifted.
He embarked on his military career late in 1757 when he took part in the disastrous (for France) Battle of Rossbach, receiving but surviving fourteen injuries, and retaining his "colours", albeit in a badly shredded condition.
High mobility landing troops (airborne troops) of the Armed Forces of Ukraine had been formed on the basis of airborne and airmobile forces.
David Smolansky Urosa (born 27 May 1985) is a Venezuelan journalist and politician who has served as Deputy Director of the Comando Con Venezuela in Washington D.C.
Despite his alignment with the United States, Marcos also pursued informal alignment with the Soviet Union within the Sino-Soviet split.
He had to go into exile on several occasions, first to escape condemnation dictated by one of his articles (1907) and later fleeing from governmental repression in response to the Tragic Week in Barcelona (1909).
Tabachnyk is among former Ukrainian officials who have had their assets frozen by EU and is wanted in Ukraine for embezzlement and abuse of office.
This system comprises 4,300 new surveillance cameras, drones, automated evidence processing systems, and increased manpower to manage each of these new technologies, which have been collectively dubbed the ECU 911 Integrated Security Service.
She is sought for terror propaganda and having attended funerals of people who fought against the Turkish government.
During the dictatorship of Miguel Primo de Rivera he helped disseminate illegal literature promoting the ideas of Blasco Ibáñez.
According to historian Violeta Barbu, the Prince was in fact interested in preserving a political balance and reapplied a "fundamental norm" of old Wallachian (and more generally Romanian) society.
Time of National Socialism: illegality, escape, emigration, imprisonment After the Nazis seized power, Hochmuth was wanted by the police and had to go underground.
His turn to the right, however, led his party to suffer several splits; His image was also badly damaged among the public by a succession of corruption scandals that became public at the end of 1935.
He dismissed public criticism of the Stasi arguing that it was analogous to journalists denouncing others, an activity praised in Western countries.
The army, secretaries and eminent men were assembled and Ahmad read to them an official version of the caliph's murder, claiming (falsely) that he had been killed by his favorite companion al-Fath ibn Khaqan.
Napoleon had him confined to the Château de Grosbois (Barras's property), then exiled to Brussels and Rome, and ultimately, in 1810, interned in Montpellier; set free after the fall of the Empire, he died in Chaillot (now Paris), and was interred in Père Lachaise Cemetery.
It is then encased in natural intestine, usually together with a strip of fat, and smoked over a mixture of herbs including sage, bay laurel, thyme, terebinth, and myrtle.
The primary reason is that often these old recipes contain many times more curing ingredients than are appropriate.
Helicobacter pylori is linked to cancer, and antibiotic resistance impedes the success of current antibiotic-based eradication treatments.
Glucono-δ-lactone (GDL), also known as gluconolactone, is an organic compound with the formula −CH(CH2OH)(CHOH)3C(O)O−.
Nearly 100 sculptors come from around the world each year to sculpt large blocks of pristine natural ice sometimes referred to as "Arctic Diamonds".
Smoked lapsang souchong is manufactured similar to black tea but with an intermediary step of smoking or the addition of an artificial smoke flavour.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
Three Little Pigs became known for its pâtés and catering business recognized by notable food critics such as James Beard, Mimi Sheraton and Craig Claiborne.
Salt pork that contains a significant amount of meat, resembling standard side bacon, is known as "streak o' lean." It is traditionally popular in the Southeastern United States.
Adesso's menu focused on salumi and Pâté, with a substantially larger array of charcuterie available than at Dopo.
They are used in some dishes, and they are also pressed into cakes and used for animal feed, especially for dogs and pigs, or as fish bait.
Limosilactobacillus is a thermophilic and heterofermentative genus of lactic acid bacteria created in 2020 by splitting from Lactobacillus.
GDL is pH-neutral, but hydrolyses in water to gluconic acid which is acidic, adding a tangy taste to foods, though it has roughly a third of the sourness of citric acid.
This increased need for space was due not only to an upswing in the volume of meat sales, but also to the need for separating raw meats from processed foods to avoid cross-contamination and the resulting possibility of foodborne illness.
Music video A music video of the song was released on Tidal on June 6, 2016, with a 30-second teaser available to non-subscribers.
Dahi puri is another snack from India which is especially popular from the city of Mumbai in the state of Maharashtra and in the Ahmedabad city of Gujarat state.
Eddie Fu from Uproxx called it a "grown and sexy R&B track", also writing that "Ty Dolla $ign has shown he’s adept at working with pop acts in the past...
Phylogeny The currently accepted taxonomy is based on the List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature and the phylogeny is based on whole-genome sequences.
Salo is often chopped into small pieces and fried to render fat for cooking, while the remaining shkvarky (a type of cracklings) are used as condiments for fried potatoes or varenyky or spread on bread as a snack.
D’Artagnan's product line quickly expanded to include game meats and heritage breed poultry, organic chicken, heritage turkey, grass-fed beef, humanely-raised veal and pork, pheasant, quail, squab and prepared products like pâté, dry-cured sausages, smoked duck breast and duck prosciutto.
Preservation For preservation, salo is salted and sometimes also smoked and aged in a dark and cold place, where it will last for a year or more.
Meat confit Confit of goose (confit d'oie) or duck (confit de canard) is usually prepared from the legs of the bird.
The use of trace amounts of tallow as an additive to the substrate used in polymer banknotes came to light in November 2016.
Grisons Meat is described by 18th century travellers, in particular by Johann Gottfried Ebel who notes that "the air is so dry from Sils to St.
In this case, food is flash frozen and put into a reduced-pressure system which causes the water to sublimate directly from the solid to the gaseous phase.
Modern terrines do not necessarily contain meat or animal fat, but still contain meat-like textures and fat substitutes, such as mushrooms and pureed fruits or vegetables high in pectin.
In a 1665 letter to the Director of New Netherland from the Island of Curaçao there is a request to send greens: "I request most amicably that your honors be pleased to send me seed of every sort, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, etc.
In 2006, following the passing of the Civil Partnership Act 2004, which allowed same-sex couples in the United Kingdom to have a legally-recognised union similar to marriage, it was proposed that they should be eligible to claim the flitch.
In his 1699 book, Acetaria: A Discourse of Sallets, often considered the first book on salads, John Evelyn attempted with little success to encourage his fellow Britons to eat fresh salad greens.
De Haimet et de Barat et Travers In De Haimet et de Barat et Travers, two thieves, the eponymous brothers Haimet and Barat, and a peasant farcically steal and then steal back, repeatedly, a piece of bacon.
The town of Yecapixtla is well known for its version of the dish, which varies from region to region.
Secondary binders Often, the only binder in a forcemeat is the physical structure of the protein used.
Water is traditionally removed through evaporation by using methods such as air drying, sun drying, smoking or wind drying, although today electric food dehydrators or freeze-drying can be used to speed the drying process and ensure more consistent results.
The indoor withering is done with the leaves laid out on bamboo mats and turned at intervals, followed by a period of rolling to break cell walls and initiate oxidation.
However, it wasn't until the 1990s that charcuterie boards had a resurgence in popularity as American grocery stores diversified their offerings and specialty food stores became more common.
This led to further research surrounding the use of sodium nitrite as an additive in food, standardizing the amount present in foods to minimize the amount needed while maximizing its food additive role.
Since boning poultry can be difficult and time-consuming for the novice, this is a rather elaborate dish, which is often lavishly decorated, hence its name, connoting a presentation at table that is galant, or urbane and sophisticated.
At this point the sausage should be chilled in ice water, then cold smoked at a temperature of 46 to 49 °C (115 to 120 °F) for 2–3 hours.
Varieties There are numerous varieties of French pâtés or terrines, including: Parfait Chicken liver parfait is a subtype of pâté.
The style of formal dining changed drastically in the 19th century, becoming successive courses served one after the other over a period of time.
Veal stock (in particular, stock from a boiled calf's foot) provides a great deal of gelatin, so other types of meat are often included when making stock.
D’Artagnan's line of products became more available to the consumer public when it began selling items to major grocery stores Balducci's and the Food Emporium in 1996.
Salt pork typically resembles uncut side bacon, but is fattier, being made from the lowest part of the belly, and saltier, as the cure is stronger and performed for longer, and never smoked.
As a stand-alone food product, it is typically boiled to remove much of the salt content and to partially cook the product, then fried until it starts to develop a crisp exterior.
A garde manger (French: [gaʁd mɑ̃ʒe]) is a cool, well-ventilated area where savory cold dishes (such as salads, hors d'œuvres, appetizers, canapés, pâtés, and terrines) are prepared and other foods are stored under refrigeration.
Salt pork now finds use in traditional American cuisine, particularly Boston baked beans, pork and beans, and to add its flavor to vegetables cooked in water, as with greens in soul food.
The classic dish of quenelles de brochet Nantua or simply quenelles Nantua consists of pike quenelles with sauce Nantua, both pike and crayfish being specialties of the Nantua area.
Composition It is generally recommended to diversify the items on a charcuterie board in terms of type (e.g.
A hank can consist of a varying number of strands (individual pieces of casing) which vary in length from 2 meters (which is the shortest length sold for commercial use) to as long as 28 meters.
For his products, Meduna received awards at the 1873 Vienna World's Fair, the 1878 Paris Exposition, and in 1879 a Silver Cross of Merit by Minister Béla Wenckheim on behalf of Emperor Franz Joseph I for the services achieved during the World Exhibition in Paris.
Upon addition to water, GDL is partially hydrolysed to gluconic acid, with the balance between the lactone form and the acid form established as a chemical equilibrium.
In nouvelle cuisine, which shifted the standard food presentation approach from larger platters to individually pre-portioned plates, the garde manger is often responsible for arranging food decoratively on the plates.
Buccan or Boucan is the native South American and Caribbean name for a wooden framework or hurdle on which meat was slow-roasted or smoked over a fire.
This invention of a faux Polynesian experience is heavily influenced by Don the Beachcomber, who is credited for the creation of the pūpū platter and the drink named the Zombie for his Hollywood restaurant.
Gammon can also served as gammon steaks, which are fried or grilled, and served in a similar manner to bacon.
Many of the odor compounds in wood smoke, especially the phenolic compounds, are unstable, dissipating after a few weeks or months.
Nonetheless, the brothers manage to steal the bacon, but while they are cooking it on a fire in the forest, Travers steals it back, scaring them away by pretending to be a ghost.
An antipasto plate, the first dish of a formal Italian meal, is similar to a composed salad, and has vegetables, cheese, and meat.
It is typically produced by the aerobic oxidation of glucose in the presence of the enzyme glucose oxidase.
An acceptable daily intake (ADI) for nitrate ions was established in the range of 0–3.7 mg (kg body weight)−1 day−1 by the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives (JEFCA).
Noumboulo (from Venetian nombolo: loin) is a traditional charcuterie product of the Island of Corfu.
Meduna was one of several Friulian entrepreneurs who adapted Italian culinary tradition and created a new market and industry for salami.
Natural casings Origin Natural sausage casings are made from the sub-mucosa of the small intestine of meat animals, a layer of the intestine that consists mainly of naturally occurring collagen.
Following the legalisation of same-sex marriage in England, Wales, and Scotland in 2014, the 2016 trials were the first in which same-sex couples were eligible to claim the flitch; in 2024 a Dunmow couple, Emma Hynds and Emma D'Costa, became the first both to apply for and to be awarded the flitch.
Their presence in finished products has been tightly regulated since several food-poisoning cases in the early 20th century, but consumption of large quantities of processed meats can still cause a slight elevation in gastric and oesophageal cancer risk today.
The Dunmow tradition originated nearby at Little Dunmow, where it was practiced until the mid-eighteenth century.
By extension, a quenelle may also be another food made into a similar shape, such as ice cream, sorbet, butter, or mashed potato quenelles.
Instead the term cheese board might be used for a dish with largely cheese or some other descriptive title used for a board with a large variety of different cold foodstuffs.
In Russia, the pâté is served on a plate or in a bowl, and is typically moulded into the shapes of animals, such as hedgehogs.
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
Throughout much of the rest of Europe and parts of the English-speaking culinary world, speck is usually South Tyrolean speck, a type of Italian smoked ham.
Fatback is a layer of subcutaneous fat taken from under the skin of the back of a domestic pig, with or without the skin (referred to as pork rind).
Tallow and compounds including tallow were widely used to lubricate locomotive and steamship engines at least until the 1950s.
Examples include fresh or dried fruits, olives and olive oil, nuts, vinegars, pickled or fresh vegetables/crudités, fresh herbs, chocolates, edible flowers, and a variety of spreads such as mustards, honey, and fruit preserves.
Biography A descendant of the Meduna family, he was born on 30 June 1821 in Castelcucco, Austrian Empire, as Giuseppe Carlo Meduna, son of Severo and brother of Francesco Meduna, mayor of Castelcucco in 1868.
As a processed meat, the term ham includes both whole cuts of meat and ones that have been mechanically formed.
Adesso had been rated among the top hundred restaurants in the Bay Area by the San Francisco Chronicle in 2010 and 2011.
Other uncooked sausages are available in certain regions in link form, including Italian, bratwurst, chorizo, and linguica.
Henry Bate Dudley's "ballad opera" The Flitch of Bacon was first performed in 1778; it continued to be widely produced into the nineteenth century.
After the 19th century the entremet would become almost exclusively a sweet dish or dessert with the British custom of the "savoury" being the only remaining tradition of the savoury entremet.
In cuisine As an ingredient, fatback is a preferred fat for various forms of charcuterie, particularly sausages and forcemeats for pâtés and terrines.
This can be quicker, increase the weight of the finished product by more than immersion, and ensure a more even distribution of salt through the meat.
Nitrosamines have a nitroso group (NO+) that are "probable human carcinogens", bonded to a deprotonated amine.
salami, ham etc.) and the term 'charcuterie board' would not be widely used for a board with cheese, fruit and a small amount of meat as is the case in North America.
Most merchants who worked outside noble manors at this time were associated with a guild, an association of persons of the same trade formed for their mutual aid and protection.
Speck can refer to a number of European cured pork products, typically salted and air-cured and often lightly smoked but not cooked.
The name Leuconostoc comes from Greek adjective leukos meaning clear; and the word nostoc gelatinous colonies, Leuconostoc - colorless nostoc.
Grilling sausages: Appenzeller Siedwurst, Berner Zungenwurst, Cervelat, Emmentalerli, Frauenfelder Salzissen, Glarner Kalberwurst, Kümmelwurst, Schüblig, Schützenwurst, St.
In French cuisine, galantine (French: [galɑ̃tin]) is a dish of boned, stuffed meat, most commonly poultry or fish, that is usually poached and served cold, often coated with aspic.
By the 15th century the elaborate display and performances were served up between courses, and could be edible or displays of subjects relevant to the host, created in butter sculpture or other types of crafted work.
In the early 19th century, the French chef Marie-Antoine Carême created Chaudfroid sauce, the name referencing foods that were prepared hot and served cold.
Job requirements As with most hands-on cooking positions, a garde manger chef needs fine motor skills and physical stamina, as well as cooking skills and knowledge of food safety.
The frozen blocks can range from 90×50×15 cm to 90×50×20 cm, and the force applied from 80,000 newtons (18,000 lbf) to 120,000 newtons (27,000 lbf).
This sausage is most similar to English-style sausages and has been made in the United States since colonial days.
The dish was sometimes boiled or simmered before or after straining, and sometimes left uncooked, depending on the recipe.
Besides the domestic manually or motor operated grinders, there are also grinders for butchery (table- or shop-grinders for example) and for the food industry.
Other Friulian butchers followed suit in the seasonal production of winter salami, including the Del Medico brothers, the Guglielmini, Suberca, Molinari, Boschetti, Forgiarini, Dozzi, Vidoni and Venturini.
The company generates revenue through direct sales to restaurants, retailers and the consumer public on its website.
See also References External links Consejo Regulador de la Indicación Geográfica Protegida "Cecina de León", PGI Consortium Cecina de León elaboration
The dish is part of winter holiday celebrations such as the traditional Russian New Year (novy god) or Christmas meal.
Various ingredients are used, which may include meat from pork, poultry, fish or beef; fat; vegetables; herbs; spices; wine; and brandy.
Meats and other ingredients A variety of fresh meats may be used for making sausage, the most common are from beef, pork, lamb, chicken, turkey, and game.
Because meat is usually butchered elsewhere and delivered to the restaurant pre-packaged, garde manger chefs no longer prepare raw meat for cooking.
He was a member of the Hungarian Armed Forces Association and one of the founders of the Hungarian Industry Association.
According to Jonas the song is about when you are out of a relationship and you start to be okay with the fact that it's ended, saying "In my case my life was great, it’s so good that we should throw some bacon on it to make it even better".
Likëngë Luganega Mazzafegati Mortadella 'Nduja Salami Soppressata Zampina Italian salami Salumi are Italian cured meat products and predominantly made from pork.
It was released on July 12, 2016, as the second single from the former's third studio album, Last Year Was Complicated.
It is metabolized to 6-phospho-D-gluconate; one gram of GDL yields roughly the same amount of metabolic energy as one gram of sugar.
Those with very mild methemoglobinemia might not have any symptoms at all, or might appear a little pale and feel tired.
In the first half of the nineteenth century, several flitches were awarded privately: in 1830 a silver flitch was given to the Duke of St.
The recipe is practically identical with German Rouladen, perhaps omitting wine and adding a wedge of hard boiled egg and/or frankfurter to the filling.
By the time of the eighteenth-century awards, the oath was taken by the couple kneeling on pointed stones, after which they were carried in a wooden chair around the village.
History The term garde manger (French for larder) originated in pre-Revolutionary France, where large, wealthy households designated a kitchen manager to supervise the use and storage of large amounts of foodstuffs.
While charcuterie boards are common appetizers in restaurants today, they continue to find popularity in private gatherings like house and dinner parties due to their ease of preparation.
China A European-style smoked savory hóng cháng (simplified Chinese: 红肠; traditional Chinese: 紅腸 red sausage) is produced in Harbin, China's northernmost major city.
The mechanism responsible for this color change is the formation of nitrosylating agents by nitrite, which has the ability to transfer nitric oxide that subsequently reacts with myoglobin to produce the cured meat color.
Priests instead of stolen bacon In two tales of circulating bodies, Du Segretain Moine and Du Prestre qu'on porte, dead priests end up substituted for stolen bacon.
In the U.S., 'appetizers', referring to anything served before a meal, is the most common term for hors d'oeuvres.
When salo has been aged too long or exposed to light, the fat may oxidize on the surface and become rancid, yellow, and bitter-tasting.
Collagen casings are less expensive to use, give better weight and size control, and are easier to run when compared to natural casings.
The phrase "salad days", meaning a "time of youthful inexperience" (based on the notion of "green"), is first recorded by Shakespeare in 1606, while the use of salad bar, referring to a buffet-style serving of salad ingredients, first appeared in American English in 1937.
Reactions Acid-base properties Nitrite is the conjugate base of the weak acid nitrous acid: HNO2 ⇌ H+ + NO−2; pKa ≈ 3.3 at 18 °C (64 °F) Nitrous acid is also highly unstable, tending to disproportionate: 3 HNO2(aq) ⇌ H3O+ + 2 NO + NO−3 This reaction is slow at 0 °C (32 °F).
It also creates an effect in which the water vapor and smoke condense together, which adds flavor to smoked foods.
Salt pork is made by layering salt and thin layers of meat, then dousing it in a brine mixture once the desired size has been reached.
The use of controlled atmosphere to avoid the depreciation which affects frozen meat is equally useful in other meat markets, such as that for pork, which now also enjoys an international trade.
Mexico In Mexico, most cecina is of two kinds: sheets of marinated beef, and a pork cut that is sliced or butterflied thin and coated with chili pepper (this type is called cecina enchilada or carne enchilada).
A charcuterie board is of French origin and typically served as an appetizer on a wooden board or stone slab, either eaten straight from the board itself or portioned onto tableware.
Kangina In rural Afghanistan, grapes are preserved in disc-shaped vessels made of mud and straw, called kangina.
The Lactobacillaceae are the only family of the lactic acid bacteria (LAB) that includes homofermentative and heterofermentative organisms; in the Lactobacillaceae, homofermentative or heterofermentative metabolism is shared by all strains of a genus.
Privately owned by Ariane Daguin, who co-founded the company in 1985, its corporate headquarters and distribution center are in Union, New Jersey.
Light snacks served outside of the context of a meal are called hors d'oeuvres (with the English-language pluralisation).
N2O4, NOCl, RONO) have the same effect: HONO + R2NH → R2N-NO + H2O The nitrous acid usually arises from protonation of a nitrite.
The Slavic word "salo" or "slanina" as applied to this type of food is often translated to English as "bacon", "lard" or "fatback" in general, depending on context.
Meat products Switzerland has a large number of regional meat products and specialties that constitute an important gastronomic heritage.
For the sheer variety of ice sculptures and the number of visitors, the Quebec festival is regarded by some as the best in the world.
Galantine also appears in Geoffrey Chaucer's "To Rosamond", parodying extravagant declarations of courtly love: See also Chicken galantina Ballotine Head cheese List of stuffed dishes Terrine Turducken References External links Peter Hertzmann on galantine
In dishes such as risotto, the extremely strong flavour of Tyrolean speck can usually be cut with light flavours such as parsley, lemon, mint, etc.
The person in charge of this area, and all of the savory cold foods served by the restaurant, is known as the chef garde manger, or pantry chef.
Figurative bacon In Le Meunier et les ii Clers "bacon" figuratively refers to a young woman in a sexual sense, as one of the characters encourages his companion to take his "share" of a young woman with whom he has just had sex.
In the later nineteenth century the technique's origin was already attributed to the chef of the marquis de Brancas.
Ray wings are poached in a fish stock with vinegar, spices and onions, then preserved by adding gelatin to the stock and covering the fish with the gelatin stock.
In fabliaux – short, comic Old French narrative verse tales – bacon is one of the most commonly consumed foodstuffs, alongside capons and geese, cakes, bread, and wine.
In popular culture The 1954 rhythm and blues song "Fat Back and Corn Liquor" was written by Louisiana songwriter Rudy Toombs and sung by Louis Jordan.
Species The genus Limosilactobacillus comprises the following species: Limosilactobacillus agrestis Li et al.
The custom of the savoury course is of British origin and comes towards the end of the meal, before dessert or sweets or even after the dessert, in contrast to the hors d'oeuvre, which is served before the meal.
As the artistic qualities of food presentation have become important, the chef must be able to produce foods that both taste good and look good.
Larger hotels and restaurants may have garde manger staff to perform additional duties, such as creating decorative elements of buffet presentation like ice carving and edible centerpieces.
Less commonly, a terrine may be another food cooked or served in the cooking dish called a 'terrine'.
Live performance On April 24, 2016, Jonas performed "Bacon" during his set at the New Orleans Jazz Festival.
Parma ham, produced without nitrite since 1993, was reported in 2018 to have caused no cases of botulism.
Salt-cured on its own, it becomes lardo in Italy and salo in Eastern Europe; szalonna in Hungary is salted and smoked.
These food storage areas were usually located in the lower levels, since the cool basement-like environment was ideal for storing food.
It formed the main protein source for the slaves on the West Indian plantations, and was a major economic force within the triangular trade.
Garde Manger: The Art and Craft of the Cold Kitchen ISBN 0-7645-7663-1 External links Gardemanger.com web archive Wiktionary: garde-manger
In a typical year, more than 45,000 spectators pass through the gates of the Ice Park home of the World Ice Art Championships.
1989 Leuconostoc falkenbergense Wu and Gu 2021 Leuconostoc fallax Martinez-Murcia and Collins 1992 "Leuconostoc garlicum" Kim et al.
Hot links originate in New Orleans where they are called "hot sausage" by their English name while their French name is chaurice, which derives from its origin, the chorizo sausage brought by the Spaniards to colonial Louisiana.
Types of sausages and their storage Fresh sausages Fresh sausages are simply seasoned ground meats that are cooked before serving.
Overview Since 1975, the company has grown from a neighborhood take-out shop in Greenwich Village into a nationally distributed specialty food brand.
Pastry Some roulades consist of cake (often sponge cake) baked in a flat pan rolled around a filling.
This has not changed much throughout history: until the 19th century, animals were typically slaughtered in November, then cut up for salting, smoking and making sausages.
For example, during the 1970s, certain Norwegian farm animals began exhibiting elevated levels of liver cancer.
From this derived the French word boucane and hence the name boucanier for French hunters who used such frames to smoke meat from feral cattle and pigs on Hispaniola (now Haiti and the Dominican Republic).
Salt accelerates the drying process using osmosis and also inhibits the growth of several common strains of bacteria.
Regarded as the three most important pieces of equipment, regardless of the amount of sausage being made are an accurate thermometer, a calibrated scale, and a meat grinder.
A recent study has revealed that plasmids encode the genes which are required for adaptation of lactobacilli to the given environment.
The portions are cubed and then seasoned, cured, rested, ground and finally placed into the desired vessel.
The theft is discovered when a server, inconvenienced by the hat, removes it from the provost's head, whereupon the pork falls out.
Moreover, these meals evolved and found their way to higher society with the cheese course of formal dinners in 18th and 19th century France, Great Britain, and colonial America.
The thieves place it where the bacon was, from where it is removed by a tavernkeeper, put in the linen chest of a bishop, and thence placed in the bishop's bed whilst he is asleep by a prior.
As this new fashion caught on, the British took inspiration from the French to begin serving hors d'oeuvres before dinner.
The restaurant made an active effort to use local and sustainable food where possible, with ingredients being purchased fresh from Monterey Market every day, or delivered by local farms.
Historically, farms in the West included a smokehouse, a small building where meats could be smoked and stored.
This tradition soon became the 5-cent beer and free lunch in early America before prohibition ended the custom.
Les Trois Petits Cochons also known as Three Little Pigs is an American charcuterie company founded in 1975 in Greenwich Village of New York City.
Some special alginate coextrusion equipment is required to make casings that can be used in halal or kosher food making.
However, these methods of imparting smoke only affect the food surface, and are unable to preserve food, thus, smoking is paired with other microbial hurdles, such as chilling and packaging, to extend food shelf-life.
Quenelles de brochet Lyon and Nantua are famous for their quenelles de brochet (pike quenelles), often served with sauce Nantua (crayfish sauce) or sauce mousseline (cream sauce) and run under a grill.
Bay leaves or chili can be added to the broth for added taste (the Romanian variety is based on garlic and includes no vinegar, orange, lemon, chili, bay leaves, etc.).
In other high-profile classically influenced restaurants and hotels, the position pertains to the classical preparations, which often include pâtés, terrines and elaborate aspics.
A patty is a similar dish, and its name comes from a 19th-century English corruption of the French word pâté.
In addition to the food components, charcuterie boards themselves are typically made of either wood or stone (typically slate or marble) in order to keep foods cool during service.
The provost arrives at the feast early and, spying a piece of salt pork in a shared dish, steals it and hides it in his aumuche while the person with whom he shares the dish has his back turned to talk to someone else.
Equipment Equipment depends on scale, a small home grinder and some basic measuring tools may be all that is required.
Critical reception Kaitlyn Tiffany of The Verge compared the song to "Lucozade" to Zayn Malik and wrote that Ty Dolla $ign's verse is "explicitly about sex, but doesn't have anything to do with bacon".
The term garde manger is also related to the cold rooms inside castles and manor houses where the food was stored.
History Forcemeats are an ancient food and are included in Apicius, a collection of Roman cookery recipes usually thought to have been compiled in the late 4th or early 5th century AD.
See also Brigade de cuisine Garnish (food) List of restaurant terminology Pantry References Food production operation and management : Aman Publisher India Culinary Institute of America.
Emulsion-type cooked sausages, such as frankfurters or bologna, use a bowl chopper to make finely ground meat batter that is put into casings and cooked or smoked.
Another form of non-meat roulade consists of a soufflé-type mixture baked in a flat pan rolled around a filling.
Vitamin C and erythorbic acid are already commonly used in the meat industry because they enhance the binding of nitrite to myoglobin, encouraging the formation of the desired pink color.
Lactobacillus exhibits a mutualistic relationship with the human body, as it protects the host against potential invasions by pathogens, and in turn, the host provides a source of nutrients.
With a small capital form Giovanni Piazzoni, he founded the first Hungarian "steamed salami and fat products" factory in Budapest in 1850, pioneering and popularizing the cured sausage of Italian origin in Hungarian cuisine and culture.
In 1988, Three Little Pigs opened a facility in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania named House of Bricks to accommodate the increasing demand for its products as it became a nationally distributed brand by the 1990s.
Typically, a sausage is formed in a casing traditionally made from intestine, but sometimes synthetic.
It is a particular speciality of delis serving Montreal-style smoked meat, where slices of the fatty cut are served in sandwiches on rye bread with mustard, sometimes in combination with other, leaner cuts.
While drying techniques are common in Valais, Ticino and the Grisons, smoking techniques are more common in northern Switzerland.
Tyrolean speck is cold-smoked slowly and intermittently for two or three hours a day for a period of roughly a week, using woods such as beech at temperatures that never exceed 20°C (68°F).
Until the outbreak of World War II, their factories almost exclusively employed workers from Friuli due to their craftsmanship.
After salting and cooking in fat, confit can last for several months or years when sealed and stored in a cool, dark place.
In 19th century the word would be dautsher to denote a Germanizer and his way of speaking was dautsherish.
The Fernaig manuscript (Scottish Gaelic: Làmh-sgrìobhainn Fheàrnaig or Làmh-sgrìobhainn MhicRath) is a document containing approximately 4,200 lines of verse consisting largely of political and religious themes.
In the Unix communities of the ex-USSR countries, Caps Lock key is traditionally used as input language switcher, convenient for usage with touch typing.
The English language uses a rather large set of 13 to 21 vowel phonemes, including diphthongs, although its 22 to 26 consonants are close to average.
Psychoanalysis, rhetoric, and archetypes An alternative definition of symbol, distinguishing it from the term sign was proposed by Swiss psychoanalyst Carl Jung.
Spelling patterns usually follow certain conventions but nearly every sound can be legitimately spelled with different letters or letter combinations.
They account for 95% of the total inscriptions discovered and mostly read from left to right (like the Greek alphabet).
He served in Indian Army Pioneer Corps during World War II and was promoted from a private soldier to 2nd lieutenant in January 1941.
In particular, he said, the \ was needed so that the ALGOL Boolean operators ∧ (logical conjunction) and ∨ (logical disjunction) could be composed using /\ and \/ respectively.
Most of the world's alphabets either descend directly from this Proto-Sinaitic script, or were directly inspired by its design.
An asterism used this way is thus a type of dinkus: nowadays this usage of the symbol is nearly obsolete.
The European ordering rules (EOR / EN 13710) define an ordering for strings written in languages that are written with the Latin, Greek and Cyrillic alphabets.
Serafini described the script of the Codex as asemic in a talk at the Oxford University Society of Bibliophiles held on 8 May 2009.
This process exists in opposition to phonetics and word analysis, as a different method of recognizing and verbalizing visual language (i.e.
In an abugida, there may be a sign for k with no vowel, but also one for ka (if a is the inherent vowel), and ke is written by modifying the ka sign in a way consistent with how la would be modified to get le.
The oldest attested inscription bears a clear resemblance to South Indian epigraphical records of the sixth-eighth centuries, written in local subtypes of the Brahmi script.
Lowercase the second word in a hyphenated compound when it is a prefix or suffix (e.g., "Anti-itch", "World-wide") or part of a single word.
In morphology, the ending ⟨-а⟩/⟨-у⟩ denoting genitive case is regulated as ⟨-а⟩, as in Russian, and not as ⟨-у⟩, as in certain modern dialects.
Some Christians changed their profile pictures to the letter ن as a symbol of support, calling it the "Mark of the Nazarene".
URLs: The path, query, fragment, and authority sections of a URL may or may not be case-sensitive, depending on the receiving web server.
Various main systems are used to document Evenki texts: a Latin-based, pinyin-like alphabet; Mongolian orthography (experimentally); as well as Chinese hieroglyphics.
It was a development of the earlier double oblique hyphen ⸗, which developed from a Central European variant of the virgule slash, originally a form of scratch comma.
The same scholars' collection of songs has some orthographic differences from the table below; namely, long vowels are occasionally written not just doubled but also with an intervening silent ᠭ (ɣ), showing clear orthographic influence from the Mongolian language.
Since most English nouns (excluding pronouns) have no grammatical gender, words such as teacher(s), student(s), professor(s), and so on, can be used without implying the gender of the being(s) to which the noun refers.
History and etymology The term was coined in the 19th century to describe the style of Yiddish spoken by some educated Eastern European Jews.
The manuscript was composed between 1688 and 1693 by Donnchadh MacRath in Wester Ross (Scottish Gaelic: Ros an Iar) and is notable for the author's unique orthography which is, like the more famous Book of the Dean of Lismore, based upon English, rather than Classical Gaelic, phonetics.
In programming languages Some programming languages are case-sensitive for their identifiers (C, C++, Java, C#, Verilog, Ruby, Python and Swift).
The standard covers languages used by the European Union, the European Free Trade Association, and parts of the former Soviet Union.
For example, there are two words spelled invite, one is a verb and is stressed on the second syllable, the other is a noun and stressed on the first syllable (without changing any of the individual sounds).
Some words have both hyphenated and unhyphenated variants: de-escalate/deescalate, co-operation/cooperation, re-examine/reexamine, de-emphasize/deemphasize, and so on.
Rumelhart and McClelland then extended the idea by expressing the triples in phonetic terms as Wickelfeatures.
For instance, when users interested in learning about dogs search an e-book, "dog" and "Dog" are of the same significance to them.
Zhuang languages were traditionally written with Chinese characters, but are now usually written with romanized alphabets.
For human readers, the difference is imperceptible and unimportant but it has significance in text processing applications.
Evenki itself is spelled eweŋki, despite Mongolian orthography usually prohibiting the letter combination ŋk.
The alphabetic principle does not underlie logographic writing systems like Chinese or syllabic writing systems such as Japanese kana.
Usage Chitumbuka orthography is used in religious texts, including translations of the Bible, newspapers and magazines published in Tumbuka.
The Heffernan family travelled a lot around Central Australia in Margaret's early childhood for family and ceremony and also for work.
The brackets stand for a function that maps a linguistic expression to its "denotation" or semantic value.
The Za'ba Spelling System, introduced in 1933, was the improvised version of the earlier orthography introduced by the British scholar, R J Wilkinson.
At Batchelor she collaborated with linguist Gavan Breen and, together, they developed the Arrernte orthography.
Encoding The letter turned comma is encoded at U+02BB ʻ MODIFIER LETTER TURNED COMMA, in the Spacing Modifier Letters Unicode block.
Nonbreaking hyphens The word segmentation rules of most text systems consider a hyphen to be a word boundary and a valid point at which to break a line when flowing text.
This is the case with English silent e, which has been claimed to modify preceding digraphs as well as preceding single vowel letters.
Since the 17th edition (2010), the second word after a hyphenated prefix in compound modifiers is capitalized (Mid-Year, Anti-Hero).
We find him at the head of a school near the Old Bailey, London, in 1590, in which year he published his Writing Schoolemaster, in three Parts.
When using title case, all words are capitalized, except for minor words (typically articles, short prepositions, and some conjunctions) that are not the first or last word of the title.
The circumflex (περισπωμένη, perispōménē, 'twisted around') – 'ᾶ' – marked high and falling pitch within one syllable.
The following verb endings are all pronounced the same: tu parles, il parle and ils parlent; there can also be confusion around the similar sounding je parlais and je parlai.
This included consistent representation of nasalized sounds, tonal markers in dictionaries and linguistic publications, and formalizing diacritics such as ŵ and b.
The Paleohispanic scripts are the ancient writing systems created in the Iberian Peninsula before the Latin alphabet became the dominant script.
For example, the Mandarin Chinese name for the capital of the People's Republic of China is Beijing using the commonly used contemporary system Hànyǔ Pīnyīn, but in the historically significant Wade–Giles system, it is written Pei-Ching.
The state of confusion was ended with the introduction of New Rumi Spelling in 1972, that finally united the different orthographies of the Malay-speaking world into a single system.
Further problems are caused by examples of confusion with English, such as connection (incorrect) and connexion (correct).
As a side effect, any inadvertent pressing of this key without pressing another key simultaneously has no effect.
Maharshal ruled that the Talmud only mandates the usual break for a parashah section, and Torah scrolls with extra letters are passul (unfit for ritual use).
From 1818 he became a member of the Teylers First Society and continued in that position until his death.
For example, when a document "Document1.doc" is opened in Word, a file called "~$cument1.doc" is created in the same directory.
Some other Semitic languages, including Northwest Semitic languages, are attested, including Aramaic and Hebrew.
More accurately, however, the Crown script isn't really a script of its own; it's more of an addition to existing scripts.
In the late 11th or early 12th century, Indian Zoroastrians (the Parsis) began translating Avestan or Middle Persian texts into Sanskrit and Gujarati.
In many books, mention of another part of the same book or mentions the work as a whole will be set in small caps.
In Bodo and Dogri written in Devanagari, it marks high tone and low-rising tone on short vowels, respectively.
Example of ideograms are the DOT pictograms, a collection of 50 symbols developed during the 1970s by the American Institute of Graphic Arts at the request of the United States Department of Transportation.
In English Philosophical, religious, and political terms A particular example of where capitonyms are prominent is in terminology relating to philosophy, religion, and politics.
In English In English writing, quotation marks are placed in pairs around a word or phrase to indicate: Quotation or direct speech: Carol said "Go ahead" when I asked her if the launcher was ready.
breabhaid "sortie", deabhaidh "haste, skirmish", feabhais "improvement" (gen), leabhair "books", meabhair "minds".
However, due to differing opinions among the participants, the Congress spelling did not produce any resolution on the use of both phonemes, and opened the issue for public interpretations.
Masonry (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word masonry (wall building) – are omitted.
On the other hand, the pratyāhāra haL is always used in the meaning "all consonants"—Pāṇini never uses pratyāhāras to refer to sets consisting of a single phoneme.
The double vertical line ( || ) is used to represent the salt bridge, which is used to maintain electrical neutrality within the electrochemical cell.
In some but not all cases, this is reflected in the orthography that allows double forms with and without ⟨p⟩: neumático ("tire"), psicología/sicología ("psychology"), pterodáctilo/terodáctilo ("pterodactyl").
There are several in Cyrillic alphabets, which for example uses five trigraphs and a tetragraph in the Kabardian alphabet: гъу /ʁʷ/, кӏу /kʷʼ/, къу /qʷʼ/, кхъ /q/, and хъу /χʷ/, and also a tetragraph кхъу /qʷ/.
Likewise, some languages using the Latin script use orthographic transcription for all foreign names: George Walker Bush is written Džordžs Volkers Bušs in Latvian (the ending -s marks the nominative case of masculine names, see Latvian declension) and Corc Volker Buş in Azerbaijani.
Malay affixes like di-, ke-, ter-, -kan, -an, and particles like -lah, -tah, -kah, and -nya are no longer hyphenated, but combined with the words.
Alehouses and brewers took down the signs saying μπιραρία biraria (from Italian birreria) and put up ζυθοπωλείον 'ale-house'.
Lowercase articles (a, an, the), coordinating conjunctions, and prepositions of three letters or fewer.
A double vertical bar associated with a colon can represent the repeat of a given section (||: A / / / :|| - play twice).
Still, some newspapers, including Die Zeit, the Neue Zürcher Zeitung, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, and the Süddeutsche Zeitung, created their own in-house orthography rules, while most other newspapers used approximately the rules set out by the DPA.
There is no universal convention on digit grouping, however, so both thousands grouping and no digit grouping can be found.
Not all silent letters are completely redundant: Silent letters can distinguish between homophones; e.g., in/inn; be/bee; lent/leant.
Its symbol in the International Phonetic Alphabet is ⟨ɳ⟩, formed by adding a rightward hook to the bottom of ⟨n⟩, the symbol for the corresponding alveolar consonant.
In Latin script, the double hyphen ⹀ is a punctuation mark that consists of two parallel hyphens (‐).
But Pāṇini uses only 41 (with a 42nd introduced by later grammarians, raṆ=r l) pratyāhāras in the Aṣṭādhyāyī.
In 1598, the English term point of interrogation is attested in an Italian–English dictionary by John Florio.
Phoenician/Greek labial letter Β was the source of southwestern be, southeastern ba; the use of Π is uncertain but may have been the source of bi.
Korean was formerly written partially with Chinese characters, but is now written in the fully alphabetic Hangul system, in which the letters are not written linearly, but arranged in syllabic blocks which resemble Chinese characters.
Orthographic depth hypothesis According to the orthographic depth hypothesis, shallow orthographies are more easily able to support a word recognition process that involves the language phonology.
The primary difference between the letter apostrophe and U+2019 is that the letter apostrophe U+02BC has the Unicode General Category "Letter, modifier" (Lm), while U+2019 has the category "Punctuation, Final quote" (Pf).
The Commission on the Filipino Language (Filipino: Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino) has published several standardized prescriptive orthographies for select languages of the Philippines.
It works for software localization, developing language software, localizing open source software, enriching online encyclopedias etc.
Small caps are used in running text as a form of emphasis that is less dominant than all uppercase text, and as a method of emphasis or distinctiveness for text alongside or instead of italics, or when boldface is inappropriate.
Especially when describing computer algorithms, it is common to define backslash so that a\b is equivalent to ⌊a/b⌋.
These were not true characters because such points belong to the C0 control codes range; therefore, these glyphs required a special way to be placed on the screen (see code page 437 for discussion).
Subsequent divergence After transcribing a word from one language to the script of another language: one or both languages may develop further.
Although the Royal Spanish Academy (1713) simplified Spanish spelling in pursuit of a phonetic standard beginning with the publication of its Orthographía española (1741), the tendency to reform writing came to a halt in 1815.
They occur in Irish orthography, and many of them can be analysed as a tetragraph followed by the vowels ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩ on either side to indicate that the neighbouring consonants are palatalized ("slender").
Diaeresis In Ancient Greek, the diaeresis (Greek: διαίρεσις or διαλυτικά, dialytiká, 'distinguishing') – ϊ – appears on the letters ι and υ to show that a pair of vowel letters is pronounced separately, rather than as a diphthong or as a digraph for a simple vowel.
Current languages in which the tilded ⟨n⟩ (⟨ñ⟩) is used for the palatal nasal consonant /ɲ/ include Tone In Vietnamese, a tilde over a vowel represents a creaky rising tone (ngã).
Austroasiatic languages Khmer script (for Khmer language) Khom script (for Bahnaric languages) Chữ Nôm (historical writing for Vietnamese language) Austronesian languages Most Austronesian languages use Latin script today.
Gershayim (Hebrew: גֵּרְשַׁיִם, without niqqud גרשיים), also occasionally grashayim (גְּרָשַׁיִם), can refer to either of two distinct typographical marks in the Hebrew language.
In shallow orthographies, the spelling-sound correspondence is direct: from the rules of pronunciation, one is able to pronounce the word correctly.
Sentence 2 is compound because "so" is considered a coordinating conjunction in English, and sentence 3 is complex.
Case-insensitive operations are sometimes said to fold case, from the idea of folding the character code table so that upper- and lowercase letters coincide.
Recognising the lack of teachers in the language, Chesswas took the opportunity to publish a textbook for stations where no teachers of the language were available.
Small keyboards, such as netbook keyboards, forgo the indicators to conserve space, instead providing software that gives on-screen or audio feedback.
Letters with diacritical marks (like ⟨à⟩, ⟨î⟩, ⟨õ⟩, and ⟨ü⟩) are ordered as variants of the base letter.
According to semiotics, map symbols are "read" by map users when they make a connection between the graphic mark on the map (the sign), a general concept (the interpretant), and a particular feature of the real world (the referent).
Examples of this include alien dialogue in comic strips, animated cartoons, and graphic novels (such as Alan Moore's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, and the Valérian and Laureline series).
Programming languages Some programming languages use the hyphen-minus for denoting subtraction and additive inverse, often called negation in this context.
In British English, punctuation marks such as full stops and commas are placed inside the quotation mark only if they are part of what is being quoted, and placed outside the closing quotation mark if part of the containing sentence.
In this tradition, possessive pronouns are also capitalized if one is quoting God; "My" and "Mine" are capitalized, which should not be done when a human speaks.
This marked the establishment of Baptist Church in Mizoram and Serkawn remains the centre of its administration to this day.
Use In early Unicode (versions 1.0–2.1.9) U+02BC was preferred for the punctuation apostrophe in English.
Bullet operator A variant, the bullet operator (U+2219 ∙ BULLET OPERATOR), has a Unicode code point but its purpose does not appear to be documented.
Regular expression languages used it the same way, changing subsequent literal characters into metacharacters and vice versa.
Instead they founded national movements of their own, promoted the literary and official use of their own spoken languages, and established the use of those languages in church.
A consensus was reached during the congress, and the new orthography was later named Ejaan Kongres (the congress spelling').
Trediakovsky was also a prolific translator of classical authors, medieval philosophers, and French literature.
Also, rules can be debarred by other rules: 6.1.101 aKaḥ savarṇe dīrghaḥ teaches that vowels (from the aK pratyāhāra) of the same quality come together to make a long vowel, so for instance dadhi and indraḥ make dadhīndraḥ, not *dadhyindraḥ.
It can also be used to mean "untitled" or author or title withheld – as seen, for example, in some editions of Album for the Young by composer Robert Schumann (№ 21, 26, and 30).
Operation Natural sorting algorithms generally operate by splitting strings into "chunks" of text and numbers.
John Evelyn wrote: Hadrian Junius, speaking as a miracle of somebody who wrote the Apostles' Creed and the beginning of St.
Rabbinic basis The Babylonian Talmud records in the tractate Shabbath, folio 116a, that the markings surrounding Numbers 10:35–36 were thought to denote that this 85-letter text was not in its proper place.
In contrast, deep orthographies encourage a reader to process printed words by referring to their morphology via the printed word's visual-orthographic structure (see also Ram Frost).
For example: the root of תַּשְׁבֵּצִים/taʃbeˈtsim/ "crossword puzzles" is שב״צ (š—b—ṣ); the root of לְהַטּוֹת /lehaˈtot/ "to tilt, to conjugate" is נט״ה‎ (n—ṭ—h); and the root of הִסְתַּנְכְּרְנוּת /histankreˈnut/ "being synchronized" is סנכר״נ (s–n–k–r–n).
Early life Heffernan was born at the sacred site of Werlatye Atherre, just north of the Alice Springs Telegraph Station, and is part of the Caterpillar Dreaming.
For example: דּוּ״חַ (singular), דּוּ״חוֹת (plural), "report" represents דין וחשבון; and מ״כ (masculine), מַ״כִּית (feminine), "squad commander" represents מפקד(ת) כיתה.
Among the consonants of the Korean language, only one is always pronounced exactly as it is written.
From 1803 he was the member, then secretary, of the head-office of that university's literary faculty.
In MATLAB and GNU Octave the backslash is used for left matrix divide, while the (forward) slash is for right matrix divide.
A yig mgo is a textual caret mark in Tibetan script which is one of the possible markers for a new text or page.
It is unclear whether morphological analysis—allowing for many forms of a word depending on its grammatical role—provides a significant benefit for English, though its benefits for highly synthetic languages such as German, Hungarian, or Turkish are clear.
The division that Bell made based on the differences he perceived between the two types of Dhivehi scripts is convenient for the study of old Dhivehi documents.
The modifier letter apostrophe (ʼ) is a letter found in Unicode encoding, used primarily for various glottal sounds.
The Bluebook According to the 21st edition of The Bluebook, used for legal citations, the following title capitalization rules should be applied: Capitalize the first and the last word.
In addition to the unusual spelling system used the manuscript is notable for several other reasons.
In order to avoid it being confused with the equals sign =, the double hyphen is often shown as a double oblique hyphen in modern typography.
In historical systems Glyphs such as •, ◦ and their reversed variants ◘, ◙ became available in text mode since early IBM PCs with MDA–CGA–EGA graphic adapters, because built-in screen fonts contained such forms at code points 7–10.
We are also informed that "he spent several years in sciences among Oxonians, particularly, as it seems, in Gloucester Hall; but that study, which he used for a diversion only, proved at length an employment of profit." He is mentioned for his skill in micrography in Holinshed's Chronicle.
For example, 10 million (1 crore) would be written "1,00,00,000", while 100 thousand (1 lakh) would be written "1,00,000".
File managers such as Windows Explorer (since Windows XP) and Midnight Commander utilize natural sorting by default to display file lists.
During their stay, they taught the Lusei tribes to read and write, translated Gospels (Gospel of Luke, Gospel of John) and Acts into Lusei language, and published A Grammar and Dictionary of the Luhsai Language in 1895.
The word asemic means "having no specific semantic content", or "without the smallest unit of meaning".
For example, a brief occupation of South Arabia by the Ethiopian Aksumite kingdom led to the presence of a few Ethiopic inscriptions attested in South Arabia.
In 1932, the Egyptian Ministry of Education released a manifesto titled Crown Letters and Punctuation Marks and Their Positions of Use, which thoroughly explained the script and was very likely the first book ever written in Crown script.
Word processors Professional desktop publishing applications supporting genuine small caps include Quark XPress, and Adobe Creative Suite applications.
Neutralization and archiphonemes Phonemes that are contrastive in certain environments may not be contrastive in all environments.
For example, somebody searching for the name "Jade" would not want to find references to the mineral called "jade".
Computer encoding Most keyboards do not have a key for the gershayim punctuation; as a result, a quotation mark is often substituted for it.
In Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, where traditional characters are used, corner brackets are prevalent, although English-style quotes are also used.
With the introduction of word spacing in the Middle Ages, the hyphen, still written beneath the text, reversed its meaning.
Chile was the last country to maintain this orthography, which remained in force there for more than 83 years.
His translations frequently aroused the ire of the censors, and he fell into disfavour with his Academy superiors and conservative court circles.
Its purpose is to "indicate minor breaks in text", to call attention to a passage, or to separate sub-chapters in a book.
The issue was taken up in the courts, with different decisions in different German states, so that the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany was called upon to make a ruling.
Martin Luther's German Bible translation was one of the first mass-printed works; he used only virgule, full stop, and less than one percent question marks as punctuation.
Phonetic transliteration This is a typing method in which, for instance, the user types text in an Indian language using Roman characters and it is phonetically converted to equivalent text in Indian script in real time.
These prefatory prayers are invariably written in Pazend because of the need for "accurate" pronunciation.
The smooth breathing (ψιλὸν πνεῦμα, psīlòn pneûma; Latin spīritus lēnis)—'ἀ'—marked the absence of /h/.
Historically, in Germany and Austria, thousands separators were occasionally denoted by alternating uses of commas and points, e.g.
Certain Catalan-language authorities, such as Joan Solà i Cortassa, insist that both the opening and closing question marks be used for clarity.
History Hellenistic–Renaissance eras In the Middle Ages, before printing, a bar ( ¯ ) over the units digit was used to separate the integral part of a number from its fractional part, as in 9995 (meaning 99.95 in decimal point format).
By the 19th century, grammarians explained the difference between the punctuation marks by means of a hierarchy that ascribed different weight to them.
Occurrence and appearance Inverted nuns are found in nine passages of the Masoretic Text of the Bible.
Shiva Sutras The following table shows the Shiva Sutras in Devanāgarī Script and their transliteration into the well-used transliteration scheme of Indic characters by Latin scripts viz.
The first Dhivehi script likely appeared in association with the expansion of Buddhism throughout South Asia.
In computing, natural sort order (or natural sorting) is a way of ordering strings that treats embedded numbers as whole numerical values rather than sequences of characters.
The double hyphen is also not to be confused with two consecutive hyphens (--), which are often used to represent an em dash — or en dash – due to the limitations of typewriters and keyboards that do not have distinct hyphen and dash keys.
The purpose of inventing this script was to implement capital letters into the Arabic script to be used similarly to English capital letters—which it does very well.
Younger and newer learners tend to focus more on the implications from the text and rely less on background knowledge or experience.
Standard transcription schemes for linguistic purposes include the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), and its ASCII equivalent, SAMPA.
The book "neither discusses the function of bullets in advertisements nor distinguishes them from any of the other items in the 'accessories' category", but shows them as a form of dinkus in an advertising panel.
A research study of the available methods and recommendations of proposed standard was released by Broadband Wireless Consortium of India (BWCI).
Nowadays it comes inbuilt in all major operating systems including Microsoft Windows (2000, XP, Vista, 7), Linux and Macintosh.
However, ⟨h⟩ is present in three digraphs and one trigraph (ch, lh, nh and tch), which is where this letter is mainly found affecting the word's pronunciation.
By the Song dynasty, the addition of punctuation to texts by scholars to aid comprehension became common.
In short, a sentence with one or more dependent clauses and at least one independent clause is a complex sentence.
On the other hand, Greek, Cyrillic, Arabic and Ethiopic adopted the French "angular" quotation marks, «...».
Some have hypothesized a hieroglyph of fish in water as its origin (In Aramaic and Akkadian nun means fish, and in Arabic, nūn means large fish or whale).
His last major work was a translation of François Fénelon's Les Aventures de Télémaque (1766; Tilemakhida), which he rendered in Russian hexameters.
A hexagraph (from the Greek: ἕξ, héx, "six" and γράφω, gráphō, "write") is a sequence of six letters used to represent a single sound (phoneme), or a combination of sounds that do not correspond to the individual values of the letters.
⟨æ⟩, ⟨œ⟩, ⟨ĳ⟩ and ⟨ŋ⟩ are ordered as modifications of ⟨ae⟩, ⟨oe⟩, ⟨ij⟩ and ⟨n⟩ respectively, similarly for similar cases.
Initial /h/ is no longer pronounced, and so the rough and smooth breathings are no longer necessary.
would and should); they can also reflect deliberate efforts to introduce variability for the sake of national identity, as seen in Noah Webster's efforts to introduce easily noticeable differences between American and British spelling (e.g.
However, in other languages like German, if brackets enclose text in italics, they are usually also set in italics.
In 1961, ASCII contained parentheses, square, and curly brackets, and also less-than and greater-than signs that could be used as angle brackets.
In 1595 he had a great trial of skill with one Daniel Johnson, for a golden pen valued at £20, and won it; and a contemporary author further relates that he had also the arms of calligraphy given him, which are azure, a pen or (blue with a gold pen).
See also Book of the Dean of Lismore Islay Charter Glenmasan Manuscript Notes References MacPharlain, Calum Lamh-Sgrìobhainn Mhic Rath, (Dundee) Thomson, Derick S.
This method has gained influence within North America, as most common computer file systems make the use of slashes in file names difficult or impossible.
Sentences – which are composed of these clauses, in either "dependent" or "independent" form – also have patterns, as explained below.
For example, in Icelandic, [kʰ] is the first sound of kátur, meaning "cheerful", but [k] is the first sound of gátur, meaning "riddles".
He continued his advocacy of poetic reform in On Ancient, Middle, and New Russian Poetry (O drevney, sredney i novoy rossiyskoy poyezii) in 1752.
She is part of the Water Dreaming as she was conceived at another sacred site, Apmere Yetwernte, near Aileron.
Soon after his return to Russia, he became acting secretary of the Academy of Sciences and de facto court poet.
Influences on asemic writing are illegible, invented, or primal scripts (cave paintings, doodles, children's drawings, etc.).
S = {x | x > 0} defines a set S containing elements (implied to be numbers) x0, x1, and so on where every xn satisfies the rule that it is greater than zero.
When those with signed languages as their first language read writing associated with a spoken language, this functions as literacy in a second, acquired language.
Dejected they moved to Chittagong where they stayed for sometime awaiting permission to enter Lushai Hills.
Because these letters are created to transcribe consonants of Mandarin (late imperial lingua franca), these are disappeared soon.
Attorney General Richard Delonis to be "highly circumstantial", but the defense lawyers felt that it was strong enough that they had to put their clients on the stand, where they appeared evasive.
Bertha Alice Williams Graham Gifford (October 30, 1871 – August 20, 1951) was a farmwife in rural Catawissa, Missouri during the early 1900s who was accused of murdering three members of the local community and suspected in 15 additional deaths.
In spite of this, he was found guilty of five murders and sentenced to two life terms and a 23-year ban on practising as a nurse, with the prosecutors claiming that they would seek charges in other deaths.
Her nickname was "Goeie Mie" ("Good Mie"), bestowed because of her amiable, neighbourly assistance with babysitting and taking care of the poor, sick, and elderly in Leiden, where she herself lived.
To the investigators' surprise, Feltner recanted his testimony and claimed that he falsely confessed to the killings in order to bring attention to the appalling conditions and abuse that occurred at the nursing homes.
Ahmadi, along with Sarpās Mokhtār (Central Police chief), Mostafā Rāsekh, and Hosein Niroumand, was arrested and tried for crimes committed during Rezā Shāh's reign.
The trust was unable to comment due to confidentiality issues and there was no response from Leighton's lawyers.
Trial and sentence In June 2016, she was convicted and sentenced for four murders and attempted murder, according to section 237 of the Danish Penal Code.
In 2005 Bueno, working in a children's ward, began injecting babies and older children with overdoses of sedatives, causing them to stop breathing.
While most Austrians opposed capital punishment, many felt that the woman had not served enough time in prison for their crimes.
Arrest, trial and imprisonment After being fired from the hospital, Jackson found herself a new job at a local grocery store, where she was arrested on July 16, 2002, on four capital murder charges.
He fled while they went to get the proper paper work but was caught near Port Austin, 125 miles north of Detroit.
Investigation and arrest Cazzaniga was arrested on 26 November 2016, and charged with a total of 15 murders.
The court doctors found Fikáčková to be sane, but prone to depression, hysteria and uncontrollable outbursts of anger.
See also List of serial killers by country List of serial killers by number of victims == References ==
Prosecution and trial After a two-year investigation, Majors was arrested in December 1997 and charged with seven murders.
Angelo devised a plan where he would inject the patient with drugs, then rush into the room and attempt to "save" the patient so that he could be a hero to the patient's family.
In 1970, Velma Bullard married a widower, Jennings Barfield, but the union lasted less than a year, as Jennings died of heart complications on March 22, 1971.
His lawyer has been quoted as saying that Zelenka may have killed on an impulse to "test" doctors in Havlíčkův Brod, in the belief they were not good enough to discover the truth.
Sakala, 86, was admitted to the hospital for a persistent cold and “inexplicably” died the following day.
As well, her name was on the industry's lists as a representative of a real-estate agent named Asahi Shōji (朝日商事), whose address was also same as Kotobuki San'in, until the end of 1986.
Trial, imprisonment and aftermath During Hooijmaijers' murder trial, it was determined that he had an IQ of 93, considered too low to be the head nurse of the ward.
In 2005, 73% of deaths could be connected to Högel's work schedule.(subscription required) These findings were subsequently forwarded to the Oldenburg district attorney's office.
Pancuronium (brand name Pavulon) was used in six murders; this drug is used to stop a patient's respiration when they are about to be put on a medical ventilator.
See also Capital punishment in Texas List of death row inmates in the United States § Texas List of serial killers in the United States == References ==
The state police medical team noticed several patients' heart patterns widening around the time that Majors was on duty.
Capture and imprisonment Swanenburg was caught after she poisoned the Frankhuizen family in December 1883.
Investigation Between March and June 2022, unusually high infant mortality rates occurred at a neonatal nursing unit in the Ramón Castillo Neonatal Hospital in Córdoba, Argentina.
According to her book The Science of Fasting, she studied under Edward Hooker Dewey, MD, a well-known proponent of fasting.
The coils were inserted into the uterus, where they caused irritation leading to the expulsion of the fetus.
A fifth revised and amplified edition of Fasting for the Cure of Disease was published in 1927 under the title Scientific Fasting: The Ancient and Modern Key to Health.
She was exonerated in 2021, after confounding factors were found in a statistical reanalysis of the hospital's mortality data.
The Malmö Östra hospital murders were a Swedish case of serial senicide committed by the 18-year-old Anders Hansson at a hospital in Malmö between October 1978 and January 1979.
Toppan insisted upon her own sanity in court, claiming that she could not be insane if she knew what she was doing and knew that it was wrong, but nonetheless she was declared insane and committed.
However, she spent considerable time alone with patients, making up fake charts, medicating them to drift in and out of consciousness, and even getting into bed with them.
It was established with certainty that Swanenburg poisoned at least 102 people with arsenic between 1880 and 1883.
He received his medical degree in December 1921 and relocated to Villeneuve-sur-Yonne, where he received payment for his services both from the patients and from government medical assistance funds.
Toppan was recommended for the prestigious Massachusetts General Hospital in 1889; there, she claimed several more victims before being fired the following year.
She was remanded to await trial on $2 million bond, while the authorities continued to exhume and examine bodies for any further potential victims.
It was later found that epinephrine, which was not supposed to be in that ward, had somehow been substituted for vitamin E.
Harold Shipman, the British doctor dubbed "Doctor Death" whose inquiry suggested he was responsible for 250 deaths.
Personal life Bertha Alice Williams was born in Morse Mill, Missouri, the daughter of William Poindexter Williams and his wife Matilda, née Lee.
In a 2017 episode of the CBS Reality programme The Jury Room, in which 12 members of the public were asked to act as a 'jury' and review the evidence against Geen, the 'jury' unanimously concluded that Geen was guilty and not a victim of a miscarriage of justice.
Another of Geen's patients who had been admitted due to stomach pains was found to have midazolam and the paralytic vecuronium in his system, with no one having prescribed him these drugs.
After poisoning his victims, he would wait until they went into cardiac arrest and then come by and save them in front of his colleagues.
She was partially paralysed and was admitted to a hospital near Chester, where she received morphine injections for nine days from 27 June, prescribed by a Dr.
When he suspected his lover and roommate Carl Hoeweler of infidelity, he poisoned Hoeweler's food with arsenic so he would be too ill to leave their apartment.
Murders, arrest, and trial From 2017 to 2018, multiple patients experienced unexplained complications after heart surgeries while in recovery.
Andermatt was convicted on 28 January 2005, by the Lucerne Criminal Court for murder in 22 cases, attempted murder in three cases and unfinished murder in two cases with resignation and life imprisonment.
The Greater Manchester Police (GMP) were unable to find sufficient evidence to bring charges and closed the investigation on 17 April.
The sentencing judge, Justice David Latham, told Allitt that she was "a serious danger" to others and was unlikely ever to be considered safe enough to be released.
On the hospital's side, in spite of the allegations of misconduct dating back to June, the director said that he initially thought it should be dealt with at the hospital, but as things got out of hand, he had to resort to contacting the prefectural police.
Legal case 2010 raid Gosnell's clinic, the Women's Medical Society, was raided on February 18, 2010, under a search warrant by investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Pennsylvania State Police.
(Strosser, 1975) Investigators found that the nurse Filipina Narciso had been on duty in the relevant ward during every poisoning, and she was identified by a patient as the nurse who had injected something into his IV just before his breathing suddenly stopped.
See also List of French serial killers List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
Ahmad Ahmadi (Persian: احمد احمدی; 1885 – October 1944, known as Pezeshk Ahmadi meaning Physician Ahmadi) was an Iranian nurse.
She asked Jones to make it clear why the lid of a bottle of succinylcholine was punctured, and questioned her on whether she had placed a pharmacy order for a third bottle (Holland had requested two) of that same drug.
Some of the Resistance groups he spoke of had never existed, and there was no proof of any of his claimed exploits.
Shipman's motive for suicide was never established, though he reportedly told his probation officer that he was considering suicide to assure his wife's financial security after he was stripped of his National Health Service pension.
Letter also reportedly gave an inappropriate injection to a 22-year-old soldier with minor injuries from a fall; she lost consciousness but recovered.
Barfield's involvement in Christian ministry was extensive enough that an effort was made to obtain a commutation to life imprisonment.
Drug distribution trial In December 2013, Gosnell was convicted of illegally distributing painkillers.
On March 12, 2002, at age 32, Saldivar pleaded guilty to six counts of murder and received seven consecutive life sentences without the possibility of parole.
A former emergency medical technician, he was sentenced to death, and is currently trying to appeal said sentence.
She was held in custody at the West Virginia Regional Jail and Correctional Facility until her sentencing.
Crimes Bueno worked as a nurse in the Instituto de Puericultura Martagão Gesteira of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
February 15: The Kanagawa Prefectural Police arrest Imai, after he made statements incriminating himself.
They also said Davis had "enjoyed" carrying out the murders and "liked to kill people." On October 27, 2021, Davis was sentenced to death after about two hours of jury deliberation.
These victims were the following: Bernie "Berniece" Katherine Olsen, 69 - retired schoolteacher who had moved to Florida to be closer to her sister.
In a 2022 prison interview for a true crime docuseries, Davis also confessed to an additional murder of a 96-year-old woman in 2016.
He also would have known doctors were not on duty overnight at the hospitals, so they couldn't help the patients when they all collapsed during Norris's night shifts.
From the start, he insisted he was only "Dr Thomas Neill", not Thomas Neill Cream, and the newspapers usually referred to him as "Dr Neill" in their coverage of the proceedings.
This was discovered by the medical director of the garrison, who informed the Public Prosecutor's Office.
Investigators never looked into Cullen's past and the case was dropped nine months later for lack of evidence.
On 8 December 2023, authorities reportedly denied her transfer request from the Rampton Secure Hospital, a high-security psychiatric facility, to a mainstream prison.
Morrell had been dead for a few years, her body had been cremated, and she was 81 at the time of her death.
Murder of Paquita Gironès i Quintana Vila's last victim, Paquita Gironès i Quintana, a childless widow suffering from episodes of dementia, was the one who began to arouse suspicion in the facility.
The couple eventually broke up when Graham began dating another female nursing aide who also worked at Alpine Manor.
See also Benjamin Geen, British nurse who murdered two patients and committed grievous bodily harm to 15 others Lucy Letby, British nurse who murdered seven infants and attempted murder on another eight References External links Sentencing remarks of Mr Justice Openshaw
He told a television reporter prior to his trial, "I don't regret what I did", adding "I did it to those in irreversible comas and whose families were suffering." He was convicted on February 21, 2000, of the murders of four patients and sentenced to 76 years in prison.
The judge described Brega Massone as "cruel, malevolent and lacking the slightest sense of human pity".
The series is based on the book of the same name written by the Danish journalist Kristian Corfixen.
See also List of serial killers by country Baba Anujka The True Crime Podcast In Search of Lost Crime did an episode on Goeie Mie References Footnotes === Bibliography ===
See also Serial killers with health related professions List of serial killers by country Amelia Dyer Minnie Dean Notes References External links (in Japanese) Shōwa Mainichi (The Mainichi Newspapers Co., Ltd.) 日本ニュース 戦後編 第110号 [Nippon News Post-War No.110] (Motion picture) (in Japanese).
Eight days later, he was told that an autopsy by the hospital had found 13 times the normal concentration of the same heart drug in another dead baby.
Patrolmen saw a hearse illegally parked at Clark's office that night and found a corpse inside, ready for transport.
Early life Marie Fikáčková (née Schmidl) was born on 9 September 1936 in Sušice, Czechoslovakia, into a Sudeten German family.
Devlin commented that the defence must have known this would cause prejudice against Adams, but the danger that Adams would be loquacious, or not able to keep to the point, would likely aid the prosecution.
Nurses at Horton Hospital later observed that there were notable similarities between this storyline and the crimes of Geen.
She was also known as "The Ogress of Colonia Roma," "The Female Ripper of Colonia Roma" and "The Human Crusher of Little Angels." Early life She was born in 1890 in Cerro Azul, Veracruz to a mother who was not affectionate towards her.
In August 1979, Hansson was sentenced to closed psychiatric treatment, where he remained until 1994.
Following his arrest, Angelo confessed to having poisoned other patients with pancuronium and Suxamethonium chloride, both of which are paralytic agents used in anesthesia.
It delivered a guilty verdict against Burke for the murder of Docherty; the same charge against McDougal they found not proven.
Trial and execution After being released from eight years of exile in 1941, Iran Teymourtash travelled to Iraq and succeeded in arranging for Ahmadi's extradition to Iran on charges that he had killed her father, Abdolhossein Teymourtash.
The television series American Horror Story tells a highly fictionalized version of their story in its sixth season, Roanoke.
Investigators criticized the hospital for meeting them with "a wall of silence" as they attempted to look into a suspicious 1988 death.
Life Andermatt worked as a nurse in various retirement homes in central Switzerland, including the Eichhof retirement home in Lucerne.
Kristen Heather Gilbert (née Strickland; born November 13, 1967) is an American serial killer and former nurse who was convicted of four murders and two attempted murders of patients admitted to the Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) in Northampton, Massachusetts.
Such notions are extremely unlikely and contradict all known evidence given by the Illinois authorities, newspapers of the time, Cream's solicitors, Cream's family, and Cream himself.
As a nurse in hospital Havlíčkův Brod, 100 kilometres (62 mi) southeast of Prague, he murdered seven patients by lethal injection, and attempted to kill 10 others between May and December, 2006.
This was more detailed than the official one provided prior to his trial; he placed much of the blame for the murders on Hare.
In two other suspicious cases, the fact that there had been no post-mortem examinations prevented enough evidence being accumulated to charge Norris for their deaths.
She was convicted of killing several patients at a Texas dialysis center by injecting bleach into their dialysis lines.
Felícitas Sánchez Aguillón or Sánchez Neyra (1890 – June 16, 1941) was a Mexican nurse, midwife, baby farmer and serial killer, active during the 1930s in Mexico City, who killed babies in her care.
In the second instance (19 October 2018), the sentence was reduced to 15 years of prison for homicide beyond intent.
The Indiana State Nursing Board suspended Majors's license for five years after it had determined he had exceeded his authority by giving emergency drugs and by working in an ICU without a doctor, and VCH fired him.
A blood sample was taken from Hall after a doctor raised concerns and ordered blood tests, and her blood was found to contain an inexplicably massive amount of insulin – 1000 units in just one sample – and this became the main hard evidence in the police case.
A year after his conviction on charges of murder, the interview was re-broadcast on Tonight with Trevor McDonald.
Marie Fikáčková (9 September 1936 – 13 April 1961) was a Czech suspected serial killer, convicted for the killing of two newborn babies in Sušice in 1960.
On August 1, Joyner was apprehended by law enforcement, and in a subsequent interrogation, he unexpectedly confessed to killing both women and was subsequently charged with both murders.
In October 2010 he was sentenced to 15+1⁄2 years in prison for performing unnecessary operations on patients in order to claim payment for them from the Italian state.
First trial The drink she had given to Carnell turned out to contain sulphuric acid – enough to kill 50 people.
John the Baptist Diocesan High School in 1980 and then entered a two-year nursing program at Farmingdale State College, where he was a well-regarded honor student.
From 1993 to 2000, Caleffi worked at the Valduce Hospital of Como in the departments of surgery general, endoscopy and first aid.
Early life Born in Brownsville, Texas, he graduated from the College of Medical and Dental Careers in North Hollywood, California in 1988.
During the sentencing, Mays, in tears, gave a brief statement: "There’s no words I can say that can offer the families any comfort.
Holmes later confessed to murdering Alice and Nellie on October 25, 1894, by forcing them into a large trunk and locking them inside.
Pier Paolo Brega Massone is the former chief thoracic consultant at the Santa Rita medical clinic in Milan, Italy.
Trial in the Provincial Court of Girona Vila's trial began at the Provincial Court of Girona on 27 May 2013, with her initially confessing that she didn't want to hurt the old women and was relieved to see them dead.
She was arrested and imprisoned for fraud and theft in 1915 for stealing valuables and posing as injured men to receive funds.
In 1901, Toppan moved in with the elderly Alden Davis and his family in Cataumet to take care of him after the death of his wife, Mattie (whom Toppan had murdered).
See also List of serial killers in the United States List of serial killers active in the 2020s == References ==
His first victim was 88-year-old Logan Evans, an incontinent stroke victim, whom Harvey smothered with a pillow in May 1970, after the patient smeared feces on him.
In the view of Harper's Weekly, "From the age of fourteen to that of forty-three her career was one of undeviating yet complex vice [...] She was as foul in life as bloody in hand, and she seems not to have spared the poison draught even to the partners of her adultery and sensuality.
Grombach had been founder and commander of a small independent espionage agency, known later as "The Pond" that operated from 1942 to 1955.
In the prosecution's opening statement, it was said that, at the time of the murders, the defendant was the only one on duty, and that it was extremely unlikely that anybody else could've been the perpetrator.
In 2005 he was sentenced to 110 years imprisonment for the murder of four children and the attempted murder of another four.
At the time of his death, Harvey was serving 28 life sentences at the Toledo Correctional Institution in Toledo, Ohio, having pleaded guilty to murder charges to avoid execution.
She was prosecuted for poisoning 13 elderly people between September 2012 and November 2013, resulting in the deaths of 10 victims.
Many of the medications in inventory were past their expiration dates… surgical procedure rooms were filthy and unsanitary… resembling 'a bad gas station restroom.' Instruments were not sterile.
I chose the patients I saw suffering, generally patients with AIDS, patients who were almost terminal.
In addition to Cazzaniga and Taroni, police also investigated five other employees at the hospital (general manager Paolo Valentini; medical director Roberto Cosentina; medical examiner Maria Luisa Pennuto; ER director Nicola Scoppetta and oncologist Giuseppe di Luca).
He killed with a hidden vial of heparin — a blood-thinning drug causing internal bleeding when administered in large doses.
The details of the murders came almost entirely from accounts to criminal justice authorities by Wood, whose murder charges were reduced by a plea agreement so she could testify against Graham in Graham's trial for first-degree murder.
A licensed vocational nurse since 1989, who worked at several other hospitals and a nursing home around North Texas, she eventually found employment at the Nocona General Hospital sometime during late 2000.
Jackie, Cathy Wood's daughter, called in to The Howard Stern Show on June 25, 2019, during the news and discussed her mother's story.
Stephan Letter (born 17 September 1978) is a German serial killer and former nurse responsible for the murder of at least 29 patients while he worked at a hospital in Sonthofen, Bavaria, between January 2003 and July 2004.
Arrest, trial and death On August 9, Feltner suffered a mental breakdown and sought help from a mental health centre before calling the offices of the local WESH TV station and confessing to his crimes.
The court described Högel's motive, to emerge as a hero after a potential reanimation, as "base" ("niedriger Beweggrund"), which is a precondition for a murder conviction in Germany.
An initial indictment was issued in 2017, expanded in 2019 and then in 2022, covering a total of thirty cases, including twelve fatalities.
Sentenced to death, she went to the electric chair at the Ohio Penitentiary in Columbus on December 7, 1938.
With that in mind, in September 1995, state officials began exhuming 15 patients who had been witnessed getting injections and had widening heart patterns around the time that they died.
According to one of Saenz's co-workers, Candace Lackey, Saenz had expressed dislike for a number of patients, all of whom either died or coded.
Three days later Sánchez was arrested, along with two accomplices: her second husband Roberto or Alberto Covarrubías and a plumber, Salvador Martínez, who worked for Sánchez.
She was arrested after an autopsy on 78-year-old Rosa Calderoni revealed dangerous levels of potassium in her body.
She was charged with four counts of murder, eleven counts of attempted murder, and eleven counts of causing grievous bodily harm.
On May 11, 2021, Mays was sentenced to seven consecutive life sentences, plus 20 years, during a three-hour-long hearing at the United States District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia in Clarksburg by U.S.
She recruited Gruber, 19, and Leidolf, 21, and eventually the "house mother" of the group, 43-year-old Stephanija Meyer.
Early life Nesset was born in Trøndelag in 1936 out of wedlock and raised by his mother, living with her throughout his upbringing and adulthood at her childhood home.
After seeing that she was disoriented and had difficulty breathing, Vila went to the supply closet and filled a syringe with laundry detergent, which she then injected directly into the woman's mouth.
Gosnell, based in the Mantua neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, owned and operated the Women's Medical Society Clinic, a non-compliant abortion clinic located at 3801 Lancaster Avenue that was dubbed a "house of horrors" during his criminal trial.
Boelsen stated in this context that "she [Hansen] has used her professional insight in a deeply perverted way, which was driven by her histrionic personality disorder".
That same year, she married Takeshi Ishikawa, three years her senior, originally from Ibaraki Prefecture.
One nurse testified how Geen appeared "elated" when one of the victims went into respiratory arrest, and said "oh no, here we go again" as the patient began to fight for breath despite being in a good condition minutes earlier.
The chief prosecutor at his trial, Olaf Jakhelln described Nesset as "an ambitious man, who wanted complete control over life and death [of his victims]." Death Nesset died at a nursing home on 2 December 2025, at the age of 89.
The first two victims she was charged with murdering were James Bartoe, 55, and Joseph Campbell, 83.
Sister Gertrude is the head nurse/nun in a general hospital, whose increasingly psychotic behavior endangers the staff and patients around her." Death Bombeek died aged 86 in 2019 at a care centre in Sint-Jozef, Wetteren, near Ghent.
According to the magistrate, "it wasn't about euthanasia, as the retirement home was not a deathbed, and Ludivine Chambet was perfectly aware of what she was doing by administering her drug cocktails.
He was arrested after Malla Yassin was arrested in early 2006, and confessed to being the leader of an insurgent cell that included Louay.
Fikáčková was convicted of murder, sentenced to death, and subsequently executed by hanging at Pankrác Prison in Prague on 13 April 1961.
He was sentenced to 21 years in prison, the maximum term then available under Norwegian law, to be followed by ten years of preventative detention.
Leidolf received a life sentence as well, on conviction of five murders, while Meyer and Gruber received 20 years and 15 years respectively for manslaughter and attempted murder charges.
Known victims The Frédéric Péchier case, at the start of his trial, involves 30 alleged victims, 12 of whom are deceased.
In 1912, Hazzard was convicted of manslaughter for the death of Claire Williamson, a wealthy British woman, who weighed less than fifty pounds at the time of her death.
The shortage of corpses led to an increase in body snatching by what were known as "resurrection men".
One man, originally slated to be the lead witness for the prosecution, referred to Perez and Narciso as "slant-eyed bitches" and asserted that there was a nationwide conspiracy of Filipino nurses to murder veterans.
Early life Miyuki Ishikawa (née Omaru or Komaru (小丸)) was born in the village of Honjō in Miyazaki Prefecture.
However, as Lowell Cauffiel documents in his nonfiction book, friends, coworkers, family members and others who knew Graham and Wood told an entirely different story than the one Wood spun as the key witness in Graham's trial.
Nelles", a dramatization of Nelles' trial, aired in 1992 as an episode of CBC Television's anthology series Scales of Justice.
Three nurses were at the centre of the investigation and an apparent attempt to poison nurses' food.
Following the exhumation and post-mortem exams of Edward Brinley and Elmer and Lloyd Schamel, the bodies were found to contain large amounts of arsenic.
In September 2015, a judge in Philadelphia Common Pleas court awarded nearly $4 million in compensatory damages to Mongar's daughter, Yashoda Devi Gurung.
In 1976, Barfield began caring for the elderly, working for Montgomery and Dollie Edwards in Lumberton.
In it, she stated she administered that insulin to patients that she believed were suffering so that they could pass away "gently." She also stated that she had great stress and chaos in both her personal and professional life and that her actions gave her a sense of control.
Six years after the event, the notes could be said to be more reliable than the nurses' own memories.
Charles Cullen, American nurse who is rumored to have killed over 400 victims See also List of serial killers with health related professions Euthanasia Abuse during childbirth (including abuse by medical professionals) == References ==
One patient, Thelma Metcalf, had to go to the emergency room several times due to getting too much heparin blood thinner; other patients were going into cardiac arrest.
He attempted to rationalize this by claiming that he had done it while the patient was either restless or in pain, and that he did not know what to do as there were supposedly no doctors around, attempting to portray himself as the victim.
On 11 February 2005, she was transferred to the Opg of Castiglione delle Stiviere (MN), and on 10 March, she withdrew the confession she made in December and three months later she said she remembered not killing anyone.
Soon they had invented their own murder method: while one held the victim's head and pinched their nose, another would pour water into the victim's mouth until they drowned in their bed.
In June 2017, the district attorney's office indicted Jones in the murders of Joshua Sawyer, Rosemary Vega, Richard Nelson, Patrick Zavala, and Paul Edward Villareal, all of them committed at the San Antonio PICU.
See also List of serial killers in the United States References Further reading Franklin, Diana Britt (October 30, 2006).
He claimed the jury at Norris's trial was wrongly led to believe by experts that a cluster of hypoglycaemic episodes, among people who were not diabetic, was sinister.
His crimes include the murders of at least 22 people, as well as attempted murder, document forgery, and embezzlement.
John Davis of Greenville, Pennsylvania, who went to visit the 1893 World's Fair and vanished, was declared legally dead in 1920.
After her release in 1916, she moved to Saint-Gilles in 1920 with her violent and abusive partner and began work as a private nurse.
Staff at Gosnell's clinic testified that there were hundreds of infants born alive during abortion procedures and subsequently killed either by Gosnell himself or on Gosnell's orders by staff.
While working there, Joyner was regarded well by both staff and patients, who all said that he had a friendly, talkative, and energetic demeanor, and showed great affection for the elderly patients.
Crimes While he was employed at Tehran's Qasr prison, he was ordered to kill numerous political prisoners.
She discovered in the process that she enjoyed playing God and holding the power of life and death in her hands.
Additionally, there was evidence that Primrose, who had consistently protested Shipman's innocence despite the overwhelming evidence, had begun to suspect his guilt.
Under questioning, she stated she derived a sexual thrill from patients being near death, coming back to life and then dying again.
Heather Irene Pressdee (born August 28, 1982) is an American registered nurse and convicted serial killer.
In February 2008, Zelenka was convicted of killing seven patients and attempting to kill 10 others, and sentenced to life imprisonment.
At the same time, the Public Health and Welfare Committee of the state Senate, chaired by Pat Vance, conducted hearings on the Pennsylvania State Health Department's failure to put a stop to Gosnell's activities.
She later changed a myriad of jobs in the plastics, textile and skiing industries, and even owned a restaurant, the Casino de Peralada.
In December 1880, another patient, Miss Stack, died after treatment by Cream, and he subsequently attempted to blackmail the pharmacist who had filled the prescription.
Toxicological tests revealed the presence of drugs such as neuroleptics and antidepressants, which were not part of the treatment.
This led to no easily detectable rise in the rate or distribution of patient deaths when he was on duty.
In one incident, he was forced to stand in front of a human skeleton and put the skeleton's hands on his face in an effort to frighten him.
Curriculum update and developer survey in 2016 The curriculum was updated in January 2016 to rely less on outside material, remove the unconventional section names, and switch focus from AngularJS to React.js as the front-end library of choice.
Its editorial office is based in San Francisco, California, with its business headquarters located in New York City.
In March 2022, Ant Group, an affiliate of Alibaba Group which held 15.1% in 36Kr sold its entire stake in the company.
It was named after the United Airlines audio channel that lets airplane passengers listen to the cockpit's conversations unhindered; the site published conversations among Microsoft developers, rather than its chairman Bill Gates, who had historically been the "face" of Microsoft.
Silicon Republic is an Irish technology news website, founded by Ann O'Dea and Darren McAuliffe in 2001.
It was further developed by the same people who developed Acorn Arcade, the contents of which were incorporated in 2006.
The new location allows IPVM to conduct on-site video surveillance hardware and software tests on products from a variety of leading video surveillance manufacturers.
Tracklib is a Swedish music service that allows producers to sample original music and clear the samples for official use.
Criticism On 12 October 2010 Martin Robbins of The Guardian accused The Register of misunderstanding climate science and misrepresenting a paper from the journal Nature in a manner that deliberately minimized the climate impact of human emissions.
In 1997 the author registered the domain gabrieltorres.com with the website, changing its name to "Hardware Site." The final name, Clube do Hardware, was adopted in 1999.
In 2007, the Association of Online Publishers awarded ZDNet UK under the Business Website category for its contribution to innovation in incorporating Web 2.0 and community features effectively on its site.
In June 2010, Alcatel-Lucent acquired ProgrammableWeb as part of a move by the company to align themselves closer to the developer community.
Conformance testing for those standards is within the purview of Acid3, an automated test published by Ian Hickson in 2008.
On March 24, 2016, the site was censored in South Korea by the Korea Communications Standards Commission (KCSC) due to alleged violations of South Korea's National Security Act, a law which bans "praising, sympathizing or cooperating with North Korea".
HTML5Test.com evaluates the browser's support for Web storage, the W3C Geolocation API, HTML5-specific HTML elements (including the canvas element), and other features.
A manga adaptation by Rize Shinba started serialization in 2007 and was published by Enterbrain under their B's LOG Comic imprint.
Laneros (often stylized as LANeros) is a digital community of over 390,000 members worldwide, mostly of Hispanic countries, started in 1999.
In February 2025, SuperSaf partnered with OnePlus for the launch of the OnePlus Watch 3 where he interviewed British former professional boxer David Haye.
The name comes from the so-called LAN (Local area network) parties, which were where the founders gathered to play videogames 20 years ago, and would translate to English as "LANners".
AOL eventually conceded that Pro Populi could continue to use the dataset but adopted the CC BY-NC license for future revisions.
since it was launched is to provide the general public with a means to check if their private information has been leaked or compromised.
We are no longer pursuing a relationship with him or his distribution channels." The sexual assault alligations against Takei were later rescinded.
In practice it turned out to be used as a search engine for security exploits, software for hacking, cracking and different keygenerators and software cracks.
The site developed a reputation for breaking tech industry news but ultimately did not reach the level of popularity it expected, with just 1.5 million regular monthly visitors.
The publication was subsequently acquired by TechMediaNetwork in 2013; in 2014, TechMediaNetwork changed its name to Purch, which was then acquired by Future in 2018.
On March 2, 2026, RTINGS announced that their full test results and in-depth product analysis, which were previously free, became exclusive to paid subscribers.
John Gruber (born 1973) is a technology blogger, UI designer, and creator of the Markdown markup language.
In 2004, rather than deleting his content, he posted a short entry entitled "Every Exit" in which he said, "It’s time for me to find a new hobby.
A few weeks after the site's closure Williams posted articles on Micro Men, the television drama about the rivalry between Acorn and Sinclair in the 1980s.
Some findings include "only 18 percent said they’d like to work for a startup" and "thirty-eight percent don’t plan on specializing in UX, backend stuff or other specific disciplines".
Phandroid broke numerous Android-related exclusive stories over the years, including an early look at Android 2.3 Gingerbread.
After five years, it was replaced by Future Human in 2020, taking place at the Trinity Business School building.
Drobe (also referred to as Drobe Launchpad) was a computing news web site with a focus on the RISC OS operating system.
To become a Campus Expert, applicants must complete an online training course with multiple modules to develop community leadership skills.
In November 2013, AOL entered into a dispute with startup Pro Populi over the company's use of the entire Crunchbase dataset in apps that Pro Populi developed, despite having distributed the data under the Creative Commons CC-BY attribution license.
Tom's Guide Tom's Guide (formerly known as GearDigest) is an online publication owned by Future that focuses on technology, with editorial teams in the US, UK and Australia.
Kaspersky denied the allegations, reporting that the software had detected Equation Group malware samples which it uploaded to its servers for analysis in its normal course of operation.
Overview Mobile Magazine is a registered trademark with the USPTO and CIPO, in the USA and Canada respectively, and owned by Navneet Narula.
See also Hacker (computer security) Hacktivism References External links Official Website CriticalSecurity.Net at the Wayback Machine (archived 2007-10-29) [[Category:Hacking (computer security baypas )]]
That same year, when Charter Communications began sending letters to high-speed internet customers regarding a new website tracking policy, reports of the letters first appeared on DSLReports.
Until 21 May 2001, Attrition maintained the largest mirror of defaced (or cracked) websites available on the World Wide Web.
In 2010, Oskar Krawczyk joined the project as a developer, and the platform was made freely available under the name of JSFiddle.
The entire site was realigned as part of a CNET Networks B2B portfolio that included CNET News.com, Builder.com and TechRepublic.
This includes keeping public repositories services, including those for open source projects, available and accessible to support personal communications involving developers in sanctioned regions.
The controversy that ensued eventually led to Arrington's departure, and other writers, including Paul Carr and Sarah Lacy, moved to another technology investment media company.
Like other wiki based websites, the content can be navigated in multiple ways, using tags to indicate themes.
SSD Endurance Experiment In 2013, Tech Report started an experiment using several SSD drives to determine how many writes they can endure.
References External links Official website Archive Offline reading (print books and e-books) Live data on the power supply, power demand, and energy storage of the website Sister blog
Site organization The website is organized into portals that are groups of articles arranged by topics.
In July 2013, Bestofmedia Group was acquired by TechMediaNetwork, Inc., which changed its name to Purch in April 2014.
Some groups are concerned that the workers who do the actual recycling are exposed to toxins that can be harmful to their health.
The Internet Storm Center (ISC) is a program of the SANS Technology Institute, a branch of the SANS Institute which monitors the level of malicious activity on the Internet, particularly with regard to large-scale infrastructure events.
The wiki had been used to provide ad hoc feedback to Microsoft teams, such as the Internet Explorer team.
Through the following years it was supported by advertising and sponsorship, including by Flextronics.
Techreport (formerly stylized "The Tech Report") was a technology news and hardware review site that was established in 1999 with the first article being published on October 30th, 1999.
Realm Games Originally launched as Machinima Realm in 2010, Realm Games was one of Machinima's key primarily gameplay-focused franchises.
Scoops Sony laptop battery scandal In 2006 The Inquirer reported laptop battery problems that affected Dell, Sony and Apple as of September 2006, with rumours of problems at Toshiba and Lenovo.
Governance The Ubuntu Forums are governed by a moderation team made up of volunteers, often referred to as The Forum Staff.
GeekWire founders John Cook and Todd Bishop were former technology reporters at the Seattle Post-Intelligencer and the Puget Sound Business Journal.
In 2010 The Register supported the successful launch of the Paper Aircraft Released into Space, a project they announced in 2009 that released a paper plane in the extreme upper atmosphere.
Another Dutch tech website Tweakers.net was founded in 1998 after Femme Taken concluded that the moderation on Webwereld was too strict.
On November 6, 2007, Wired.com published an article titled "Android Already Has Phandroids." Due to the Wired article and growing interest in Android, the site saw massive growth overnight.
Controversies In July 2019, UserBenchmark updated how it calculates the effective speed index on its website's CPU hardware rankings, drastically affecting the ranking positions of CPUs, which penalized AMD processors.
Data breach reports In May 2024, the International Baccalaureate organizations faced allegations over supposed breaches in their IT infrastructure after an incident of examination leaks.
UserBenchmark is a computer benchmarking website that provides users with performance scores for various hardware components.
GeekWire is an American technology news website that covers startups and established technology companies.
It is particularly interested in the BRICS, as well as digital innovation, viral online marketing campaigns and general tech trends.
North Korea Tech has often been cited by international media, government reports, and academics researching North Korea.
In 2019, the sites underwent a redesign, with the Memeburn, Gearburn, and Motorburn sites operating under the Memeburn.com domain.
When Futurism was sold to Singularity University, the Gravity Blanket was spun off into its own company, Gravity Brand Holdings LLC.
Services Projects on GitHub can be accessed and managed using the standard Git command-line interface; all standard Git commands work with it.
Launched in 2004 when Microsoft's corporate reputation was at a low, Channel 9 was the company's first blog.
Editorial expansion In 2011, Memeburn expanded to launch Gearburn.com, a sister site which is focused on gadget and game reviews and news and Motorburn.com, which focuses on car news.
PortableApps.com Launcher The PortableApps.com Launcher (also known as PAL) is used to make applications portable by handling path redirection, environment variable changes, file and directory movement, configuration file path updates.
My Girlfriend's a Geek (腐女子彼女, Fujoshi Kanojo) is a Japanese light novel series in two volumes by Pentabu based on a popular blog of the same name with 11 million page views.
Most news published daily are short summaries of articles published elsewhere, and are free to all viewers.
Other organisations that have supported its content include: the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Wellcome, the European Journalism Centre, Adaptation Research Alliance, and Carnegie Corporation of New York.
Based in Brazil, Clube do Hardware (meaning "Hardware Club" in Brazilian Portuguese) is one of the largest websites about computers in South America and also one of the biggest in the world.
In May 2019, Recode was integrated into Vox Media's flagship website, Vox, becoming the column Recode by Vox.
The parent company of the site, Habr Blockchain Publishing, developed a group of websites ("Habr Q&A" qna.habr.com, "Habr Career" career.habr.com, "Habr Freelance" freelance.habr.com after they developed habrahabr.ru).
The GMCI 30 index represents a selection of the top 30 cryptocurrencies and is available on crypto exchanges Bitget and Woo X, as well as decentralized exchange Vertex.
The paper reported that Gamecenter "seem[ed] to be thriving" amid the dot-com crash, with its revenue distributed across online advertising and an affiliate sales program with CNET's Game Shopper website, launched in late 1999.
Bishop and Cook joined the Puget Sound Business Journal to create TechFlash in September 2008, leaving to start GeekWire on March 7, 2011.
At this time, it broadened its remit to also cover alternative platforms and new technologies, while still keeping abreast of the RISC OS scene.
At the option of the provider, innovations may be acquired without special terms or may require acceptance of an electronic license, and may be without charge or fee-based.
In 2015, Fred Lambert joined Electrek as a contributing writer, later having been promoted over the years and becoming editor-in-chief.
The investigation revealed a high level of sophistication in the operation and the use of two different ASUS digital certificates to sign the malware.
36Kr (Chinese: 36氪; pinyin: 36 Kè) is a publicly listed Chinese media company that focuses on technology and financial news.
Differences Unlike a number of other software directory websites, the software is not arranged into categories, but each individual piece of software has its own list of alternatives.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Clube do Hardware publishes tutorials, articles, reviews, and news about computer hardware and has a very active forum where users can discuss technology topics.
senior vice president (SVP) of worldwide marketing Phil Schiller appeared as a guest on the live episode of The Talk Show during WWDC 2015 in San Francisco.
Since that time the ISC has expanded its monitoring operations; its website cites a figure of over twenty million "intrusion detection log entries" per day.
Xconomy had webinar and podcasting services (Xconomy Xpertise) and formed a custom research and publishing arm (Xconomy Insight).
The site aims to be a reference guide for the IT industry and includes reviews, ratings, articles, and detailed product feature comparisons.
The first issue covered interactive games, cell-phone hacking, digital special effects, digital libraries, an interview with Camille Paglia by Stewart Brand, digital surveillance, Bruce Sterling's cover story about military simulations, and Karl Taro Greenfeld’s story on Japanese otaku.
Style sheets contributed by graphic designers from around the world are used to change the visual presentation of a single HTML file, producing hundreds of different designs.
Three years later on April 13, 2013, MuleSoft announced the acquisition of ProgrammableWeb to "become the go-to destination for APIs and Integration”.
A "Tech Update" section was created to serve as a directory of proprietary IT research (dubbed "IT Priorities"), and a new "Power Center" was implemented to prominently feature webcasts, white papers and case studies from partners.
The original Xconomy site focused on the city of Boston before opening another outlet in Seattle in 2008 and expanding to other key technology centers of activity afterward.
ITerating uses Semantic Web tools (including RDF - Resource Description Framework) to combine user edits with Web service feeds from other sites.
There were around 150,000 users in the United States and 170,000 in Europe along with hundreds of thousands more in other parts of the world.
History It was created in 1996 by the Brazilian PC hardware expert Gabriel Torres, initially as a personal webpage on GeoCities with the title "Hardware by Gabriel Torres" as a portfolio of his work.
The print publication "Mobile" ceased publication as of November 2005 due to undetermined reasons and the domain name MobileMagazine.com was transferred to Pilato Private Consulting.
In 2004, co-founder Richard Goodwin was nominated for the Drobe awards for keeping the "popular forum" online.
The website was inspired by a CSS-related contest from HotBot, by web developer Chris Casciano's experiment called "Daily CSS Fun", as well as the Web Standards Project's efforts to get CSS adopted more widely by designers.
Primarily focused on news, reviews, price comparisons, how-tos and guides, Tom's Guide also features opinion articles and deals content.
Its main authors have disclosed ownership of Tesla stock, substantial profit from referrals to Tesla, and ownership of Tesla cars.
In 2001, attrition.org was given a cease and desist order by lawyers of MasterCard for posting parodies of its "Priceless" advertising campaign, which they claim violated copyright law.
These portable applications are intended to be used from removable storage devices such as USB flash drives.
Mark Spoonauer is the global editor-in-chief for Tom's Guide, having led the publication since 2013.
The acronym "LWN" originally stood for Linux Weekly News; that name is no longer used because the site no longer covers exclusively Linux-related topics, and it has daily as well as weekly content.
astalavista.box.sk was founded in 1994 as one of the first search engines for computer security information.
The open-source group of portable programs outgrew his personal website and he moved it to a community site, PortableApps.com.
As UserBenchmark allows users to upload their hardware score results to the website, it makes it a source of unreleased hardware leaks.
History ProgrammableWeb was founded in 2005 by John Musser and had documented 1,000 APIs by November 2008.
Phil Robertson of Human Rights Watch Asia called the block "harmful to rights and counter-productive".
Fame came relatively quickly, with Time magazine noting Mashable as one of the 25 best blogs of 2009.
In 2016, freeCodeCamp announced their "Open Source for Good" initiative, which extends and open sources their nonprofit work to all nonprofits and organizations to use.
An initial public offering raised $190 million, but the tracking stock was eliminated in early 2000 and revived as common stock.
In 2004, Aaron Swartz and Gruber worked together to create the Markdown language, with the goal of enabling people "to write using an easy-to-read and easy-to-write plain text format, optionally convert it to structurally valid XHTML (or HTML)".
JSFiddle is an online IDE service and online community for testing and showcasing user-created and collaborational HTML, CSS and JavaScript code snippets, known as 'fiddles'.
Turdakun gave first-person witness testimony about his alleged detention during an April press conference led by IPVM's Conor Healy and the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation.
The most common is the GNU LGPL, which states that any modifications to a component must be shared with the community, while one can still use it together with proprietary components.
The winning entry was Stephen Oberholtzer's "Buggy 4-Function Calculator", which, according to judge Joel Spolsky "best exemplifies what real-world code looks like ...
senator Marco Rubio and congresswoman Claudia Tenney retweeted the Axios article, urging their congressional colleagues to ignore Hikvision while claiming that Hikvision's accusations against IPVM amounted to censorship.
Readers can also submit announcements, events, jobs and grants to SciDev.Net’s noticeboard for free and these are featured on the website and in the weekly emails.
As this became the primary focus of the business, they were able to spend less time with the opencores.org project.
In October 2011, Webwereld started Lektober (portmanteau of leak and October in Dutch) where they publicized about a security bug every day of the month in a website of a well-known Dutch organization.
Founded in October 2005, and based in New York, ITerating was created by CEO Nicolas Vandenberghe, who saw that there was an industry need for a comprehensive resource to help evaluate software solutions.
Crunchbase also partnered with Databricks, making its predictive private company intelligence available through the Databricks Marketplace for use within analytics environments.
myGreenElectronics in the news Going Green With Your Computer - March 5, 2007 WCCO.com CBS News Some Consumers Opting for Eco-Friendly Computers February 21, 2007 ABC News See also Electronic waste External links Similar Homepage with a different name === References ===
History Lifewire was the third standalone brand of About.com, an IAC-owned media company, which broke up its collections of DIY and how-to information into branded vertical websites, and is a competitor to sites such as Techcrunch, Techradar, PCmag.
Purpose Appropedia can be used to help people who lack in financial stability and are looking for an alternative source to advance their financial expertise as well as environmental sustainability.
As of 2020, JSFiddle uses CodeMirror to support its editable fields, providing multicursors, syntax highlighting, syntax verification (linter), brace matching, auto indentation, autocompletion, code/text folding, Search and Replace to assist web developers in their actions.
management as a not-for-profit The first realization of the iBridge Network was a 2005-2006 pilot project joining seven U.S.
There are sixteen Realistic Missions which attempt to mimic real, moderate to difficult hacking, in real life situations.
The Icon Bar (also referred to as TIB) is a computing and technology website with a focus on the RISC OS computer operating system.
Gruber writes the Apple enthusiast blog Daring Fireball and hosts its accompanying podcast, The Talk Show.
The model underlying the iBridge Network is that aggregating research results and inventions from multiple institutions and establishing simple ways to search and transact will increase the flow of innovation to entrepreneurial actors for further development, application and delivery to society.
Instead, the privately owned website runs on a subscription-based model; as of January 2020, IPVM said that it maintained over 10,000 subscribers.
The data included 3.6 million records from Neteller obtained in 2009 using an exploit in Joomla, and 4.2 million records from Skrill (then known as Moneybookers) that leaked in 2010 after a virtual private network was compromised.
Later that year, The New York Times described the two publications as the "Time and Newsweek of gaming sites".
universities by the Kauffman Innovation Network, Inc., an initiative of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation.
Editorial independence The site stresses its editorial independence: "No outside party determines what products we review or the content of our reviews." Tom's Guide is a member of the UK-based Independent Press Standards Organisation.
In 2020, Mike Dudas stepped down and Michael McCaffrey became CEO, having taken an undisclosed loan of $12million from Alameda Research to buy out other investors and all former employees.
The site not only offered news and tutorials, but also had a robust reviews section that it was led by Juan Garzon.
Reception Kim Crawley compared the site to VirusTotal and states that vx-underground is more susceptible to suspicion for law enforcement.
ZDNET UK The ZDNet UK Live feature displays real time news updates and comments on the website and on social media including Twitter.
It has been speculated that the name was a play on the 90's web search engine Altavista, however, that was launched a year later in 1995.
With other Internet users supporting the proposal of the site through "commitment", Stack Exchange chose to launch Ask Ubuntu in private beta.
It is also the developer of the utility software GPU-Z, a graphics card information and monitoring tool.
Story synopsis The story is about the misadventures of a college student, who was falling in love with a pretty girl two years his senior, while in a part-time job, only to find out his girlfriend is a hard-core yaoi fangirl, and so his torment begins.
Features UserBenchmark is a website which offers a benchmarking program to run on the user's PC and then allows them to upload the results on the website.
Outstanding subscriptions to Mobile PC were fulfilled by subscriptions to Maximum PC, a sister technical magazine.
Attrition is an information security-related website, created in October, 1998, which used to be updated at least weekly by an all-volunteer staff.
Some of the site's investigative articles regarding hardware benchmarking were cited by other reputable technology news sites like Anandtech and PC World.
On 9 January 2024, Leenheer announced a problem with the app's server and added that he has no incentives to work on it anymore.
On April 7, 2021, an article was published on Medium.com by Dancho Danchev stating that the site is back up and running.
Consequently, the functionality of adding new articles was implemented and the previous editors allowed to re-publish articles.
Founded in 2004, it provides hardware reviews, benchmarking analysis, industry news, and maintains a GPU specifications database.
AlternativeTo lists basic information such as platform and license type at the top of each entry, but does not have comparison tables listing software features side by side.
Prior to the company's formal launch, it was a technology meet-up discussion group in New York City.
Recognition Winaero's software utilities have been recognized by several news sites and blogs, such as Lifehacker, PCWorld, Engadget.
Smallpox Project The Smallpox Research Grid was a part of United Devices "Patriot Grid" initiative to fight biological terrorism.
Background The origins of 36Kr can be traced to the new apps and gadgets tech blog written by Liu Chengcheng (刘成城), who was then a college student majoring in communication engineering at the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications.
Futurism entered into partnerships with the Prime Minister's office in Dubai to offer an Arabic language version of Futurism, and with the White House for "South by South Lawn" and other events.
The change was reverted on December 12, 2007, after a short and tongue-in-cheek stint as "The Daily Worse Than Failure".
China has been critical of the company, blocking the company's website within Great Firewall, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China has denied the validity of IPVM's work relating to Huawei, claiming it was "slander".
On 28 January 2026, Crunchbase was a victim of a cyberattack allegedly done by the group ShinyHunters who claims to have stolen more than 2 million records containing personal data.
Pilgrim and Blumenthal were arrested and initially charged with computer tampering in the second degree, a Class A misdemeanor.
Amongst these are Skip Metro Suite, which allows for skipping the Windows 8 Start screen, booting straight to the Windows desktop and customizing the Modern UI hot corners.
In July 2013, that company was acquired by TechMediaNetwork, Inc., which changed its name to Purch in April 2014.
Rydermark In July 2006, The Inquirer posted images to show cheating by Nvidia Windows device drivers in Rydermark 2006.
The website publishes a repository of web APIs, mashups, and applications, and has documented over 19,000 open web APIs and thousands of applications.
Printed books include a compressed edition, thematic books, a chronological series and translated books in Dutch and French.
ITerating was a Wiki-based software guide, where users could find, compare and give reviews to software products.
The OpenBSD Journal is an online newspaper dedicated to coverage of OpenBSD software and related events.
These websites all catered to different downloads, including MP3 music, DVD rips, and digital graphics and other hacking websites, such as New Order.
The owner, Seth Weintraub, also disclosed near total divestment from Tesla stock on January 14, 2020.
As 36Kr gained exposure, it obtained funding from investors such as Alibaba Group, Matrix Partners and e.ventures 36Kr was described as a sort of LinkedIn for Chinese startups.
The Internet Storm Center is currently staffed with approximately 40 volunteers, representing 8 countries and many industries.
MobileMagazine.com A cease and desist order on the use of the confusingly similar magazine name and website domain MobileMagazine.com was sent to Future Network USA.
Advisory board Tracklib's advisory board consists of producers Prince Paul, Erick Sermon, and Drumma Boy, later joined by producer Zaytoven in 2018 and Scott Storch in 2020.
This aims to enable researchers to simplify complex findings and engage non-specialist audiences and equip journalists to report on science accurately, enhancing public understanding of science.
The data breach received wide media coverage, presumably due to the large number of impacted users and the perceived shame of having an affair.
This allows users to clear all music and purchase a license for official usage of the selected recording(s).
Further investigation to the articles' structure lead to creation of CGI-based engine that would enable access to the deadly.org's content on a backup server.
The site currently hosts various projects created by forum members, and is also used for bug reporting and suggestions.
Associated ventures Gravity Blanket The Gravity Blanket is a crowdfunded weighted blanket product originally developed by Futurism which received generally favorable reviews from customers and the media, being considered one of the best inventions of 2018 by Time magazine.
Users with 2,000 reputation points or more can edit the questions and answers directly, without having their edits go through a similar peer review process.
In 2021, Verizon sold its media assets, including AOL, Yahoo, and TechCrunch, to the private equity firm Apollo Global Management, and Apollo integrated them into a new entity called Yahoo!
In December 2017, Ziff Davis bought Mashable for $50 million, a price described by Recode as a "fire sale" price.
In this section, any user can ask questions about IT-related topics and receive answers from other members of the project.
In February 2005, The Zen of CSS Design (Peachpit Press) was published by CSS Zen Garden creator Dave Shea and web designer Molly Holzschlag.
TechPowerUp is an online technology media focused on PC hardware, particularly graphics processing units (GPUs) and central processing units (CPUs).
History Winaero started in July 2011 as a simple English download page for the former Russian original project by Sergey Tkachenko.
The federal government claimed that a select group of HackThisSite hackers gained access to the Protest Warrior user database, procured user credit-card information and conspired to run scripts that would automatically wire money to a slew of non-profit organizations.
The podcast has had some notable guests such as Joel Spolsky (creator of Trello and Stack Overflow), Jeff Atwood (co-founded Stack Exchange), and David J.
Following Apple's 2024 WWDC, SuperSaf interviewed Apple CEO, Tim Cook and discussed a range of topics including Apple Intelligence and AI.
Employees get to choose any plan they want and flexible design criteria allows employers to customize their ICHRAs to suit their needs.
Grammatical usage In this sense, it may appear, separated by a comma, following the noun it modifies, e.g., "earned two million dollars, net".
fiscal policy and tax code." The profits earned abroad and retained there are subject to a foreign exchange risk, besides other financial risks.
However, as OFCs developed in the 1980s, it became apparent that OFC banks were not just recycling Eurodollars from foreign corporate transactions, but also capital from tax avoidance (e.g.
Other jurisdictions treat distributions as distributions of earnings taxable to shareholders if earnings are available to be distributed, but do not prohibit distributions in excess of earnings.
Federal tax law permits the owners of the entity to agree how the income of the entity will be allocated among them, but requires that this allocation reflect the economic reality of their business arrangement, as tested under complicated rules.
Provisions of the bill This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.
Majority opinion Justice Pitney, in the majority opinion, stated that the case raised three questions.
In particular, Buehler reasoned that the UP tax would hit small business especially hard, as smaller businesses have fewer options in raising capital than large ones, usually by keeping a percentage of their profits for re-investment back into the business.
" The Australian measures focus on arrangements that attempt to avoid establishing a permanent establishment presence in Australia.
In winter 2006/2007, in response to criticism about oil imports from Venezuela, that country being under the leadership of Hugo Chávez, the founder and president of Boston's Citizens Energy Corporation, Joseph P.
The Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 503, which is "the largest union representing Oregon state government workers", gave almost $3 million to the pro-Measure 97 campaign.
Country-by-Country Reporting (CbCR, with the related report pertaining to a particular entity referred to as a Country-by-Country report or CbC report) is an international initiative pioneered by the OECD.
The bill was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress.
"[D]ifferences between tax and commercial accounting rules arise where the tax instrument is employed to pursue economic, social and cultural purposes," write Ault and Arnold.
In the United Kingdom tax system, and more specifically for UK corporation tax purposes, PCTCT stands for "profits chargeable to corporation tax," a UK term for taxable profits.
At its crudest level, the Offshore-Intensity Ratio explains why the countries at the top of global GDP per capita lists are mostly tax havens.
Without the License Agreement, the appellant would not have been in a position to use the ranitidine patent and the Zantac trademark.
Hugh Ault and Brian Arnold, in their book "Comparative Income Taxation", have observed that in The Netherlands, where financial accounting is known as "commercial accounting", there is a substantial divergence between those and the tax books.
Note that dividends paid out by a cooperative corporation which are not attributable to business done with patrons pursuant to the above definition are still subject to taxation at the corporate level (and the shareholder level).
By contrast, if there is no commercial coherence, the fact that activities may be conducted within a limited geographic area should not result in that area being considered a fixed place of business.
See also Center for American Progress Center on Budget and Policy Priorities Economic Policy Institute Tax Foundation Tax Policy Center References External links Official website "Who Pays" report "Offshore Shell Games" (2017)
Generally, in tax free formations the tax attributes of assets and liabilities are transferred to the new corporation along with such assets and liabilities.
Any person the employee could have claimed as a dependent on the employee's return unless: The person filed a joint return, The person had gross income of $3,400 or more, or The employee or spouse, if filing jointly, could be claimed as a dependent on someone else's tax return.
The Hidden Wealth of Nations: The Scourge of Tax Havens is a 2013 book by French economist Gabriel Zucman, which popularized the concept of both the tax haven and corporate tax haven.
Nonetheless, a 2010 Tulane Law Review article lent lukewarm support to President Obama's Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, which is a "bank tax" similar to the FSC.
JCT has determined that the bill contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.
The CRO filings showed these vulture funds were using orphaned Section 110 SPVs, structured by IFSC–based law firms (e.g.
Regardless however, on 7 September, the Irish minority Government, with material opposition support, rejected the EU Commission's ruling on Apple, and the payment of €13 billion, plus penalties, to the Irish State.
In September 2009, the commission recommended that the Irish State provide capital allowances for the acquisition of intangible assets, creating the CAIA BEPS tool.
This is very likely where the country (such as Canada) does not recognize LLCs as an authorized form of business entity in that country.
Profit may be broken down further into pre-taxed or gross profit and profit after taxes or net profit.
In addition, the SCC's guidance to the TCC strongly suggests that Canadian courts must keep an eye on the bigger picture in making their transfer pricing determinations, and the determination of arm's-length pricing is quite distinct from the narrower concept of fair market value.
Repeal Rio Tinto and its partner Ivanhoe Mines made the scrapping of the tax a precondition to their signing an agreement to establish the Oyu Tolgoi mine, a major copper-gold mining project in the Gobi Desert.
If listed property is not used for a qualified business, the accelerated depreciation deductions will be recaptured under 280F(b)(2).
If a corporation meets the foregoing requirements and wishes to be taxed under Subchapter S, its shareholders may file Form 2553: "Election by a Small Business Corporation" with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
No exemptions In certain cases, it may be advantageous to reject the exemption for your company such as allowing you to offset a loss.
Quarterly estimated taxes must be paid by the individual to avoid tax penalties, even if this income is "phantom income".
Under the OECD rules, the information is to be exchanged between the tax authorities of the exchanging countries.
Since the enactment of 2010's Corporation Tax Act (CTA 2010) in March 2010, the profits of a company of an accounting period on which corporation tax is chargeable has been defined as the company's "taxable total profits" of the period (section 4(2) CTA 2010), which is frequently abbreviated to TTP.
Every organisation operating a Pay As You Earn (PAYE) scheme is allocated an ERN, a unique set of letters and numbers used by HMRC (and others) to identify each employer, consisting of a three-digit HMRC office number and a reference number unique to each business.
The Atlantic reviews said that Zucman's "main achievement" was to quantify the theft: "$200 billion in state revenues lost through private individuals' use of tax havens, plus another $130 billion in losses created by U.S.
Another poll conducted by icitizen during September 2–7 found that 59 percent of 610 respondents were in favor of the measure passing, with 21 percent opposed.
Additional series can be formed or dissolved without any public filing by simply amending the Series' "limited liability company agreement" (equivalent to an operating agreement for other LLCs).
Actual distributions of funds, as opposed to distributive shares, typically have no effect on shareholder tax liability.
When repatriated, the corporations are entitled to a foreign tax credit for taxes (if any) paid in foreign countries.
Depreciable property that is not eligible for a section 179 deduction is still deductible over a number of years through MACRS depreciation according to sections 167 and 168.
Instead, the owners of the entity pay tax on their "distributive share" of the entity's taxable income, even if no funds are distributed by the partnership to the owners.
Additionally, each province or territory operates its own corporate tax system, with varying treatment for small businesses.
Dhammika Dharmapala Double Irish, Single Malt, and CAIA, BEPS tools References External links NBER Profile: Mihir A.
The Diverted Profits Tax Act 2017 imposes a 40 percent tax on avoidance schemes entered into by significant global entities (SGEs), which are defined as global parent entities with an annual global income of A$1 billion or more.
The UN Model Tax Convention, which gives greater consideration to developing countries, adds what is known as a service PE in article 5(3)b.
Etymology The word net, in this sense, originally derives from the Latin nitere (to shine) and nitidus (elegant, trim), and more recently from the French net (sharp, neat, clean).
However, in almost all jurisdictions there are certain types of regulated entity which require a certain amount, or a certain proportion, of paid-up share capital to be licensed to trade.
In the previous example, the taxpayer's recomputed basis would be $100,000 because you add to the adjusted basis the amounts the taxpayer depreciated.
The Central collection agency (CCA) uses a method of depreciation and the undepreciated value which is the undepreciated capital cost.
ContractorUK has covered news on the Personal Service Companies Committee, including a speech made by Baroness Noakes in the House of Lords in which she referenced ContractorUK.
Wear and tear is a form of depreciation, which is assumed to occur even when an item is used competently and with care and proper maintenance.
See Big Four (audit firms) PwC, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, and KPMG Concentration of large firms issuing credit opinions has also been raised as a systemic risk.
Action 1: Address the Digital Economy The BEPS project recommends avoiding new direct taxes on digital activity, and expects other Actions to be generalized to tackle the digital economy as well.
During the year 1909, the firm had had gross sales of $284,682.85 and costs of $190,939.42, resulting in a profit of $93,743.43.
As L'Heureux-Dubé J had stated in Hickman Motors Ltd v Canada, the taxpayer's burden is to "'demolish' the exact assumptions made by the Minister but no more".
Facing widespread and fierce criticism, the tax was reduced to 2½ percent in 1938 and completely eliminated in 1939.
During the state's general election held in November 2016, Oregon voters defeated the measure 59 percent (opposed) to 41 percent.
If the request is still denied, a taxpayer could request a judicial review of the decision in Federal Court (not the Tax Court).
The use by Ireland of complex data protection and data privacy laws, such as contained in the 1993 Statistics Act, to protect Irish BEPS tools and Irish corporate tax avoidance schemes is documented by tax justice groups.
Exceptions apply to treat certain distributions as made in exchange for stock rather than as dividends.
It is used in a legal context for such areas as warranty contracts from manufacturers, which usually stipulate that damage from wear and tear will not be covered.
The ERN is alphanumeric (consisting of both letters and numbers) in the format of 123/XX12345, or 123/X12345 (prior to 2001), where the first three characters represent the Tax Office catchment area and the last six or seven characters represent a unique organisation or employer.
Computing depreciation recapture When a taxpayer sells an asset for a gain after taking deductions for depreciation, depreciation recapture is used to tax the gain.
Under the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project being developed by the OECD and endorsed by the G20, a new nexus based on significant digital presence is being considered under Action 1, aimed at Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy.
These new facilities were introduced by the agency in 2016 as part of an effort to modernize the Agency's services.
The property value of a US company assessable to state tax was thus assessed by examining the proportion of railway lines within the state, and then taking that proportion of the company's total value (including the movable property) as the portion of value located within a certain state.
According to PwC, the full report by the European Commission contained very detailed analysis of the transfer pricing methodology used by Apple.
Basic rules An accounting period begins when: the company comes within the charge to corporation tax.
A participation exemption may apply to qualifying shareholdings in overseas companies, domestic companies, or both.
There was opposition to the rate being established by Mongolbank by government appointment, and a claim that it was against the Constitution of Mongolia.
Section 280F is a policy that makes the Internal Revenue Code more accurate by allowing a taxpayer to report their business use on an asset they may also need for some personal reasons.
While some provinces adhere to the business limit for the lower rate set by the federal governments, other provinces choose to maintain their own rate.
IRS increases mileage rate for remainder of 2022 IRS Mileage Rate 2024 IRS Mileage Rate 2025 IRS Mileage Rate 2026
states and territories except Nebraska allow third-party diminished value claims filed with the at-fault insurance.
In general, the GSA rate matches the annual rate set by the IRS, although by law the government employee reimbursement rate cannot exceed the mileage rate set by the IRS for business deductions.
The second question raised was whether or not proceeds from mining activities constituted "income" by the definition of the act.
History The government announced in the March 2012 Budget that it would introduce corporation tax reliefs from April 2013 for the video game, animation and high-end television industries, subject to State aid approval and following consultation.
Arrangements (medical services, dental services, co-pays, coinsurance, deductibles, participation) may vary from plan to plan, and an employer may have multiple plans in place, allowing much flexibility.
Types of tax accounting methods Proper accounting methods are described in section 446(c)(1) to (4) which permits cash, accrual, and other methods approved by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) including combinations.
New Irish BEPS tools replaced it: the Single Malt scheme (used by Microsoft and Allergan), and the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets ("CAIA") scheme, (used by Apple in its Q1 2015 restructuring).
Furthermore, the list does not take into account whether Portugal has in place a double taxation agreement with the blacklisted territory.
Under the law, the taxpayer for each year is generally entitled to deduct either the actual expense amount, or an amount computed using the standard mileage rate, whichever is greater.
The orphaning process will ensure the relevant trust that "owns" the SPV equity is Irish domiciled, thus satisfying the incorporation test.
A corporation may qualify as a C corporation without regard to any limit on the number of shareholders, foreign or domestic.
However, in some jurisdictions such as Connecticut, case law has determined that owners were not required to plead facts sufficient to pierce the corporate veil and LLC members can be personally liable for operation of the LLC (see, for example, the case of Sturm v.
system, related party interest expense in excess of 50% of cash flow is generally not currently deductible, with the excess potentially deductible in future years.
Additional adjustments apply in the case of intra-group reorganizations or acquisition of the common parent, and upon entry to or exit from the group by a member.
By the week before Election Day, combined fundraising for the two campaigns had reached $40 million.
In most cases, the provinces and territories have two rates of income tax—the lower rate and the higher rate.
History The new approach began in 2000 with the launch of the R&D Tax Credit for small and medium enterprises.
In self-assessment systems, payment of taxes is generally due no later than the normal due date, though advance tax payments may be required.
Approximately the largest 2% of pass-through businesses represent 40% of pass-through income and today are taxed at 39.6%, the top individual rate." See also Sole proprietorship == References ==
This reduction of taxation generally has some limitations as to the nature of income on which tax is reduced and the minimum level and period of ownership of the subsidiary.
"Earnings and profits" is a tax law concept similar to the financial accounting concept of retained earnings.
Blanket tax measures aimed at preventing tax avoidance can be excessive and restrict the free movement of capital.
These changes alter how pension benefits are taxed for individuals but do not change the basic distinction, for insurers, between pension business and other categories of life assurance business.
As a result, the Arbitration Court annulled the 35% tax rate and ruled that the affected taxpayers were entitled to a refund, including interest on the excess tax paid.
Spain As of January 1, 2008, 50% of the gross income of Spanish domiciled companies derived from qualified Intellectual Property is exempt from Spain's Corporation tax resulting in an effective tax rate of 15%.
The Undistributed Profits Tax (1938) External links Rationale of the undistributed profits tax - George Haas, US Treasury Department, 1937 Taxhistory.org's page on the UP Tax Congressman Robert L.
$1,300 / $6,500 = 0.20 = 20% Depreciation expense equals the composite depreciation rate times the balance in the asset account (historical cost).
The original source legislation (contained in various Finance Acts and Corporation Tax Acts; HMRC’s published guidance in their Corporate Intangibles and R&D manual (CIRD); The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills guidance (now incorporated into the CIRD manual – see above).
The review noted that Zucman was "at the beginning of what promises to be a brilliant career" − Zucman is a 28-year-old University of California, Berkeley economist.
Such rules are of interest to private-equity firms, which use significant amounts of debt to finance leveraged buyouts, and in the context of strategic acquisitions, where the purchaser wishes to push debt into higher taxed countries with significant pre-tax income.
Australia The term has similarly been applied to the Tax Laws Amendment (Combating Multinational Tax Avoidance) Act 2015 introduced in the May 2015 budget, which received Royal assent in December 2015.
Under Section 179, a taxpayer may elect to expense (deduct) all or a portion of the cost of the depreciable property purchased during the taxable year if it was intended to have a business use, despite generally having to capitalize this property.
Up to 10% of regional tax (IRAP) is deductible in calculating the tax base for corporate income tax (IRES) purposes.
The undistributed profits tax was enacted in 1936 by the United States administration of President Franklin D.
The estimated annual administrative cost for HMRC of running all three new creative industry tax relief regimes will be approximately £500,000).
4453 would amend the Internal Revenue Code to make permanent a five-year recognition period for built-in gains of S corporations, retroactive to January 1, 2014.
It establishes a reporting standard for multinational enterprises (MNEs) with total consolidated group revenues > EUR 750 million containing key tax-related information including financial information and information on employees and non-cash tangible assets.
For this purpose a company enters administration when it enters administration under Schedule B1 to the Insolvency Act 1986 or is subject to any corresponding procedure otherwise than under that Act (for example, in an overseas jurisdiction).
If, for example, the taxpayer's net trade or business income from active conduct of trade or business was $72,500 in 2006, then the taxpayer's § 179 deduction cannot exceed $72,500 for 2006.
The company must have held a "substantial shareholding" in the other company for a continuous period of at least 12 months in the preceding two years.
See also Impaired asset Write-off Depreciation Certified pre-owned Statute of limitations Loss of use == References ==
They accepted the revision of the federal statute on narcotics and, as a surprise result, the elimination of the statute of limitations with respect to pornographic crimes against children.
In November 2017, it was reported that the EU Commission had asked for details on Apple's new Irish structure post the EU Commission's 2004–2014 ruling.
The CORPNET Report highlighted some interesting aspects of the 24 Sink OFCs: OECD failings An example of an IP–based BEPS tool is Ireland's Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets (CAIA) tool, also known as the "Green Jersey", which has an effective tax rate of 0–2.5%.
The reduced rate of corporate tax applies to the net positive income derived from the qualifying IP ( gross income minus all related expenses and depreciation).
Taxing jurisdictions outside the US are likely to treat a US LLC as a corporation, regardless of its treatment for US tax purposes—for example a US LLC doing business outside the US or as a resident of a foreign jurisdiction.
The relief is automatic, meaning that a company does not have to submit a claim to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.
The tax is calculated differently from IRES, adding the cost of fixed-term workers (before 2016 the cost of every employee was counted).
Types of allowances Capital allowances fall under several categories: initial allowance (IA); annual investment allowance (AIA) first-year allowance (FYA); writing down allowance (WDA); balancing allowance.
See also Depreciation recapture Quantity Surveyor Section 179 depreciation deduction == References ==
Desai is an Indian-American economist currently the Mizuho Financial Group Professor of Finance at Harvard Business School and Professor at Harvard Law School.
Basic life assurance and general annuity business Basic life assurance and general annuity business (BLAGAB) is the main category of life assurance business for United Kingdom tax purposes.
Two simultaneous taxes considered in the European Union On June 28, 2010, the European Union's executive said it will study whether the European Union should go alone in imposing a tax on financial transactions after G20 leaders failed to agree on the issue.
This stress is impossible to prevent in the normal use of the tool for its designed task, and any attempt to avert it impedes its functionality.
§ 179), allows a taxpayer to elect to deduct the cost of certain types of property on their income taxes as an expense, rather than requiring the cost of the property to be capitalized and depreciated.
Real property Many tax systems prescribe longer depreciable lives for buildings and land improvements.
Accenture was an early user of the CAIA BEPS tool, when it executed the first corporate tax inversion to Ireland in 2009.
Credibility across political spectrum ITEP's quantitative analyses are cited by media outlets and utilized by observers from across the political spectrum and by analysts within government.
Desai has testified to Joint Committees in Washington on international corporate taxation, as is quoted in the main financial papers on US corporate tax.
The Confederation of British Industry (CBI) described the effort to impose taxation on diverted profits as "a real concern for global business".
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) method of calculating effective tax rates (ETRs), showed Ireland's corporate ETR was between 2.2% to 3.8%.
For example, if a taxpayer purchased a widget for $1,000, the original basis of the widget would be $1,000.
As of 2022, the corporate tax rate stands at 15% for income below €395,000, above which the rate was 25.8%.
This is due to Apple's decision to record all sales in Ireland rather than in the countries where the products were sold.
Disposal tax effect (DTE) can also be negative if our asset is sold for a price greater than its purchase price but it is also equal to sum of the two tax effects.
If the Bermuda–controlled Irish company (IRL2) was relocated to a country with whom (a) Ireland had a tax treaty, (b) with wording on "management and control" tax residency, and (c) had a zero corporate tax rate, then the Double Irish effect could be replicated.
Action 4: Interest Deductions Outlines a common approach to end base erosion by interest deduction rules for eligible MNEs.
Reimbursement rates since 1991 References IRS.gov Standard Mileage Rate Overview IRS Document 463; Form 2106, Internal Revenue Service, U.S.
Large vehicles Up to $25,500 of the cost of vehicles rated at more than 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight and not more than 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (like RV) can be deducted using a section 179 deduction.
Implementation The tax was initially proposed to the State Great Khural (the Mongolian Parliament) in 2005, initially taxing copper and gold profits when their respective prices reach $2,600 per tonne and $500 per troy ounce.
As a result, under water's edge combined reporting, separate accounting is only ignored for purely domestic businesses but retained for multinational corporations.
Bond and bond option sales strategy (BOSS) FTEs included in the 2009 IBFD International Tax Glossary included the Bond and Bond Option Sales Strategy (BOSS) transaction] referring to an "investment strategy developed in the United States to generate tax losses without a corresponding economic loss.
Thin capitalisation rules limit the amount a company can claim as a tax deduction on interest when it receives loans at non-commercial rates (from connected parties, for example).
Diminished Value Appraisal A diminished value appraisal appraises the amount of diminished value a motor vehicle has suffered.
There was no suggestion her husband improperly used his position, but the connection was close enough to be extremely embarrassing for all concerned, and the officer was dismissed.
[2] In Ireland at least 50% of the revenue which disposal tax brings into the government is poured back into biological treatment of bio-waste and mechanical-biological treatment of waste.
Glaxo Group owned the ranitidine patent and would have owned it even if the appellant had been in an arm's length relationship.
Businesses that are eligible for the federal small business deduction (SBD) are also eligible for a lower corporate tax rate at the provincial and territorial levels.
European Union Sanctions On December 16, 2019, the EU Code of Conduct Group (Business Taxation) (CCG), under the Economic and Financial Affairs Council, published a new guidance on sanctions to be applied by EU Member States against blacklisted 'non-cooperative' jurisdictions by the end of 2020.
HMRC’s Life Assurance Manual provides worked examples of how the I minus E calculation operates in practice and explains how business is allocated between BLAGAB and other categories.
Formation Most systems treat the formation of a corporation by a controlling corporate shareholder as a nontaxable event.
This marked the beginning of a trend towards increasing weight on sales at the expense of the other two factors; by 2004, there were only twelve states still using an equally weighted formula.
History In an interview with Brenda Melina of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, The Panama Papers and the Paradise Papers are cited as well known examples of the Wealth Defense Industry.
The business mileage reimbursement rate is an optional standard mileage rate used in the United States for purposes of computing the allowable business deduction, for Federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code, at 26 U.S.C.
Under the act, they are available for specified types of claims: Notes References External links Text of the Capital Allowances Act 2001 as in force today (including any amendments) within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
O'Rourke defended Ireland's ETR as being close to the headline Irish corporate tax rate of 12.5%, and quoted the World Bank/PwC survey.
If the circumstances require, transactions other than the purchasing transactions must be taken into account to determine whether the actual price was or was not greater than the amount that would have been reasonable had the parties been dealing at arm’s length.
Similarly, an individual's net worth is the difference between their assets (what they own) and their liabilities (what they owe to others).
Because of this difference in tax treatment, cooperative corporations will typically keep separate accounting for "patronage dividends" and "non-patronage dividends." See also Corporate tax in the United States Types of business entity References External links 26 U.S.C.
So, if a taxpayer buys something for $100,000, and allowable deductions under IRC 167 for the next 3 years are $5000 per year, the taxpayer's adjusted basis is $85,000.
The IRS refers to this as "pass-through" taxation, because business profits pass through the business to be taxed on your personal tax return.
The main parliamentary parties are now devoted to the same economic policies – socialism for the rich, capitalism for the poor – and the same foreign policy of servility to endless war.
The mix of products and distribution channels continues to evolve, influenced by digital platforms, regulatory changes, competition and developments in the wider economy.
The tax was implemented with the hopes that copper mining companies would smelt their copper within the country rather than shipping concentrate out as there would be no windfall tax if the material was smelted in Mongolia.
The economic benefits of beneficial tax regimes for revenues from patents led to similar schemes being introduced in France in 2000 and amended there in 2005 and 2010.
The measure would have amended the constitution to give an outline of the health care system including the principles of competition and free choice.
The income tax and credits of the consolidated group are computed as if the group were a single taxpayer.
If the taxpayer wants to return to the previous method, the taxpayer must ask for permission from the IRS, following the 446(e) procedure.
After assessment, then said profits or losses flow through the partnership to the partners who are then taxed on their share of said profits or losses generated by the partnership without any taxes levied against the partnership.
After years of preparatory works, in 1928, the League of Nations developed a model to tackle cross-border double taxation and to counter tax evasion.
The commission also found that the wife of one of the senior case officers at the DCS Perth was running an escort service, and that she was a company secretary at several companies which were involved in bottom of the harbour schemes.
In 2017, Jeffery Winters of Harvard University's American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy, identified Liberal Democracy as being complicit in the Wealth Defense Industry.
An exception is when a parent corporation liquidates a subsidiary, which is tax-free so long as the parent owns more than 80% of the subsidiary.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) imposed a one time tax on these offshore profits at 8% (non-cash) and 15.5% (cash) respectively.
Value added tax Value added tax or VAT, (in Italian Imposta sul valore aggiunto, or IVA) is a consumption tax charged at a standard rate of 22 percent, which came in on 1 July 2013 (previously 21 percent).
Technology Tax Relief is the generic name for the programme of tax incentives implemented in the UK to incentivise companies to invest in high-value-add R&D and IP commercialisation.
For example, net income is the total income of a company after deducting its expenses—commonly known as profit—or the total income of an individual after deducting their income tax.
Repatriation tax avoidance strategies, however, have allowed U.S.-domiciled companies to avoid owing taxes to the United States.
Cultural test Productions must be certified by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) as culturally British to be eligible for relief, as per the existing Film Tax Relief.
used a variation of this phrase on Tucker Carlson Tonight, saying that in the contemporary United States, "there's a cushy socialism for the rich and this kind of brutal, merciless capitalism for the poor." See also References === Sources ===
Continuation of an entity as a going concern is presumed as the basis for financial reporting unless and until the entity's liquidation becomes imminent.
Partial deeming provisions Other provisions in the Taxes Acts sometimes deem there to be accounting periods for specific purposes only.
See also Distressing Longevity Service life Siamese twins (linguistics) References External links Dictionary.com definition Tearspare
If section 444AA applies, an accounting period of the transferor company ends immediately before the transfer, and the transferor also has an accounting period covering the instant of the transfer (except for the purposes of calculating the equalisation provision for tax purposes).
Academic leaders in tax haven research, and other non–governmental organizations, point to the role of OECD and EU tax havens in tax avoidance from base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) schemes, like the Double Irish, the Single Malt and the Dutch Sandwich.
If this is the case, you must do so by sending a letter to your tax office before your corporation tax return for the first year of the five-year period is processed.
Besides both the parent company and subsidiary must have the same financial year, apply the same accounting policies, and be established in the Netherlands.
Naturalisation Switzerland has one of the largest number of foreign residents in Europe with foreigners making up over 20% of residents.
The HRA Council, a non-partisan advocacy group made up of health insurance leaders, brokers, administrators, and organizations, released its first ICHRA report in October 2022.
For Fondo Previdenza Dirienti Aziende industriali or PREVINDAI, additional pension fund, is set at a tax level of 4 percent of income only for those with maximum annual income €150,000.
In 2017, government advanced plans to introduce the voluntary study of Islamic religious education in an after-school program in a number of state primary- and secondary-level schools, although the government had yet to release a specific timeline for the program's implementation.
However, the predominantly Catholic Gelre saw little point in it; it did not want to depend on intransigent, Calvinist Holland for a possible reconciliation with the king.
The Constitution, in Articles 103-106, provides that matters concerning the personal status of Muslims are the exclusive jurisdiction of Shari'a courts which apply Shari'a law in their proceedings.
As a treaty, not a declaration, is legally binding, the signing of the human rights declaration is a public pledge of commitment.
This coexistence has been marred by isolated incidents and attacks on religious places by Islamic extremist groups, Hindu extremist groups and a Buddhist extremist group.
Foreign clergy may work in the country, but for the last three decades, the government has limited the issuance of temporary work permits.
1), the Mutiny Act 1689, the Toleration Act 1688, and later the Act of Settlement 1701 (12 & 13 Will.
Traditional religious communities all had extensive claims for restitution of property that the communist government of the former Yugoslavia nationalized after World War II.
The dispute was brought in front of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) which ruled in 2004 in favor of the Metropolis of Bessarabia as the "spiritual, canonical, historical successor of the Metropolitan See of Bessarabia which functioned till 1944, including".
On the way he visited Lourdes where he celebrated Mass and visited the grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes.
State's power to regulate repressive and unlawful religious practices justified, besides having scriptural basis.
When there have been natural disasters, or to commemorate national events, Christians and Muslims organized ecumenical ceremonies to pray and promote a spirit of tolerance and peace.
The Catholic Church has canonized several martyrs of the Spanish Civil War and beatified hundreds more.
At the time, the text was very poorly received among both Protestant and Catholic communities, with Protestants accusing him of treason and Catholics of heresy.
Article 3 mandated secular education in schools, prohibiting the Church from participating in primary and secondary education.
The state-sponsored television station, CRTV, carries two hours of Christian programming on Sunday mornings, normally an hour of Catholic Mass and an hour of a Protestant service.
The Act referred to a decree of 27 June 1909, which laid down the wording of the oath to be taken by members of the parliament as follows: "I, ..., swear on the Holy Gospels ...".
The work argues over the definition and nature of heresy and free thought, and Milton tries to convince the new English Parliament to further his cause.
Memoirs of the English, Irish, and Scottish Catholics (London, 1822); Milner, Supplementary Memoirs of English Catholics (London, 1820), written to correct Butler's work; Wyse, Hist.
The Singaporean government claimed that this was justified because members of Jehovah's Witnesses refuse to perform military service (which is obligatory for all male citizens), salute the flag, or swear oaths of allegiance to the state.
However, other constitutional provisions for the integrity of the secular state restrict these rights.
He published Politicorum libri sex in 1589 which argued in favor of the persecution of religious dissenters.
The laws of North Macedonia prohibit religious discrimination and provide for equal rights for all citizens regardless religious belief, and people generally have the freedom to practice their religion without disruption.
Propaganda — After being taught to read but not weigh evidence and form original opinions, children become adults who are then subjected to dubious or obviously false claims for the rest of their lives.
Restrictions on minority religions The law prohibits churches from erecting bell towers or displaying crosses or other religious symbols on the outside of their premises, although they may place signs on their properties indicating they are churches.
In re: Waqf (Amendment) Act 2025 (2025 INSC 1116), is a collection of petitions heard by the Supreme Court of India considering the constitutional validity of the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025.
The revolution was accompanied by extreme levels of violence by African revolutionaries against Arabs and South Asians, who were predominantly Muslim or Hindu and were identified with the ruling class of the Sultanate of Zanzibar.
If a person violates the regulations, and is convicted of an infraction, a fine between $100 and $500 is issued to the fortune-teller.
The first steering committee of the IPPFoRB was composed of Baroness Elizabeth Berridge (UK House of Lords), David Anderson (House of Commons of Canada), Abid Raja (Parliament of Norway), Aykan Erdemir (Grand National Assembly of Turkey), Leonardo Quintao (National Congress of Brazil).
The only ramification for nonregistration is the forfeiture of the tax advantages that are available for registered religious organizations.
In accordance with article 2 of the Constitution, which provides for a secular state, public schools are not authorized to provide religious instruction.
There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice, and prominent societal leaders took positive steps to promote religious freedom.
Protests The controversy led to widespread demonstrations in Catholic regions, including Brittany, Normandy, the Vendée, and the Massif Central.
In San Francisco, fortune-telling is regulated as to "thoroughly investigate fraud and deception,” and protect those deemed vulnerable to fraud.
The Republic of Colombia has an area of 439,735 square miles (1,138,908 square kilometers) and its population is estimated at 46 million.
Inocencio Junquera Huergo y Sánchez (1831 in Gran Canaria – 1911 in Santillana del Mar) was a civil and political governor of Cebu, Philippines, from 1893 – 1895.
The Patent of Toleration (German: Toleranzpatent, Hungarian: Türelmi rendelet) was an edict of toleration issued on 13 October 1781 by the Habsburg emperor Joseph II.
On the evening of August 18, ten senior ARVN generals met to discuss the situation and decided that martial law needed to be imposed.
The Inventory Controversy (Querelle des Inventaires) refers to a series of incidents across France following the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State.
Nearly all detainees were charged with espionage for the United States (a crime under Article 7 of the Decree of 13 June 1946 on Offenses Particularly Dangerous During the Reconstruction of the State).
In the summer of 1579, Amersfoort from the province of Utrecht also joined, together with Ypres, Antwerp, Breda and Brussels.
Legacy The pamphlet is considered one of the earliest texts defending religious freedom in the modern era.
Students may apply to be absent in order to celebrate certain religious holidays, such as Eid or Passover, but there is no celebration or observance of these holidays in public schools.
The Hindu community is almost exclusively Indian, while Buddhists include South, Southeast, and East Asians.
Foreigners are predominantly from South and Southeast Asia, although there are substantial numbers from the Middle East, Europe, Central Asia, the Commonwealth of Independent States, North America and South America.
The court ruled that fortune-telling was protected free speech under the First Amendment of the US Constitution.
Improvements and positive developments in respect for religious freedom The MOI promotes interfaith understanding among religious groups by sponsoring symposiums or helping to defray the expenses of privately sponsored symposiums on religious issues.
During 2022, the National Christian Evangelical Alliance of Sri Lanka (NCEASL), noted that Christian groups reported that police were complicit in harassing religious minorities and their places of worship, often siding with the local majority religious community.
Before 2004, legislation barred religious schools and theological institutes from applying for MOE accreditation, and the MOE did not recognize university-level degrees granted by these types of schools.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
History Early modern embassy staff, who commonly lived in the ambassadorial residence, were permitted to have in-house chapels and chaplains, especially where, in the wake of the Reformation, they lived in a country that banned their religious faith.
Restrictions on religious freedom Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
Your baptism must be a shield; your faith a helmet; your charity a lance; your patience a suit of armour.
They gathered at Warsaw to prevent any separatists from acting and to maintain the existing legal order.
Education — Instead of public education being used to teach children healthy learning attitudes, they are used for the opposite, to indoctrinate children with dogma, often patently false, even known to be false by the officials imposing the education.
See also Ashtiname of Muhammad Human rights in Islamic countries References External links Marrakesh Declaration
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
The edict extended to Jews the freedom to pursue all branches of commerce, but also imposed new requirements.
More commonly, seminarians were sent abroad for training, although such stop-gap measures did not nearly make up for the losses imposed by the May Laws.
Missionary schools were among the most respected institutions of secondary education; many members of the governing and business elite graduated from Jesuit high schools.
The first significant conflict occurred in Haute-Loire on February 27, 1906, during the inventory of the Notre-Dame d'Estours Chapel in Monistrol-d'Allier.
The changes of government did not affect the auctions, which continued until the end of the century.
The French commission Stasi is a commission set up to reflect upon the application of the laïcité principle.
In the Soviet zone, between 1950 and 1961, 2,891 Jehovah's Witnesses were arrested, with 2,202 (including 674 women) sentenced to an average of five and a half years in prison for alleged anti-state activities, espionage, or "incitement to war".
As a result, it is impossible to follow the indisputable word of God; one can only achieve a human understanding of God's will.
Critique of the West The problems and crisis of humanity continue to exist, because God, the source and guarantor of justice, the fountain of truth, the basis of all laws, is denied his proper place or, worse, completely disregarded.
The hostile variety, by contrast, seeks to confine religion purely to the home or church and limits religious education, religious rites of passage and public displays of faith.
Since embassies are exempt from the host country's laws, which is a form of extraterritoriality, these chapels were able to provide services to prohibited and persecuted religious groups.
"For a Just Russia" was led by Federation Council Speaker Sergey Mironov, who frequently spoke out against intolerance and anti-Semitism, including at a September 2006 visit to the Babiy Yar memorial in Ukraine.
Leadership The current co-chairs of the International Religious Freedom Caucus are Gus Bilirakis (Republican) and Dan Lipinski (Democrat) Members, 112th Congress == References ==
Foreign missionaries All foreigners who seek to enter the country to carry out religious work or perform religious rites must obtain a work visa before arrival, a process that normally takes approximately four months.
If the representative does not comply, the place of worship or association is instructed to close down.
It found that 'The compulsory display of a symbol of a given confession in premises used by the public authorities… restricted the right of parents to educate their children in conformity with their convictions' and that it restricted the 'right of children to believe or not to believe'.
Bismarck had spotted a new and more serious threat in the rise of the Social Democratic Party, and was aware that he could not go without the Catholics' support to enact his Anti-Socialist Laws.
History Established in 2006 by bipartisan co-founders Trent Franks, a Republican from Arizona, and Emanuel Cleaver, II, a Democrat from Missouri, the Caucus has worked to ensure that religoious freedom remains a high priority in United States foreign policy, development, and refugee law.
An estimated 23 percent of the population adheres to traditional indigenous religious beliefs; some of the traditional indigenous groups promoted cures for HIV, AIDS and other ailments.
It was at the same Council of Constance that Paulus Vladimiri presented his treatise arguing that Christian and pagan nations could co-exist in peace.
Members of unrecognized religious groups and converts from Islam face legal discrimination and bureaucratic difficulties as well as societal intolerance; Shari'a courts have the authority to prosecute proselytizers.
Conversely, secularism has been associated with left-wing or liberal ideology, as it takes the opposite stance to said policies, however, various left-wing policies have likewise been deemed forms of fundamentalism, notably stronger forms of wokeness.
90% of this funding is given to the Roman Catholic Church, with the second largest sum being given to the Russian Orthodox Church.
National holidays include the Christian holy days of Easter Monday, Ascension Day, Whit Monday, Assumption Day, All Saints' Day, and Christmas; the Islamic holy days of Ramadan, Tabaski, and the Birthday of Muhammad; and the indigenous celebration of Traditional Religions holiday.
Individual religious leaders make an effort to bridge the divide between Christians and Muslims and preach a message of tolerance.
When a group receives recognition through registration, a group still requires permission from local authorities to hold public meetings.
This opposition reached its peak with the execution of Michael Servetus, a Protestant theologian perceived as heterodox, who was burned at the stake in Geneva.
A Treatise of Civil Power was published by the English poet and polemicist John Milton in February 1659.
The Serbian Orthodox Church reports some difficulties in legal restitution regarding properties seized by the Yugoslav authorities.
Repeal of the Conventicle Act By 1818 there was a proposal to give the Quakers limited rights to organize.
The Irish bishops deputed Murray and Milner to represent to the pope, who had been a prisoner when it was issued, that there was danger in the rescript such as it was.
Bommai vs Union of India (1994), the Supreme Court laid down the principle of "positive secularism" and a "horizontal" separation of secular, material world from a religious, spiritual world.
Themes Milton believed that an individual's conscience was more important than any external factors or forces.
Religious group registration The law requires churches and other religious communities to register with the government to obtain status as legal entities, but it does not restrict the religious activities of unregistered religious groups.
During the reporting period, the Jehovah's Witnesses and Seventh-day Adventists reported that low-level government officials denied them the use of public space for religious gatherings.
While Pabongkhapa had an initially inclusive view early in his life, he received a number of signs that he had displeased Dorje Shugden by receiving teachings from non-Gelug schools, and thus initiated a revival movement that opposed the mixing of non-Gelug practices by Gelug practitioners.
In July 2017, unknown perpetrators spray painted and broke tombstones at the Orthodox cemetery in the Skopje village of Ljuboten.
Diệm supported the General Buddhist Association of Vietnam in constructing its large new headquarters in downtown Saigon, known as Xá Lợi Pagoda.
Some Christian groups reported that religious meetings must be held discreetly, especially in rural areas, for fear of the authorities.
In Cebuano, the term "Junquera" is synonymous with "red light district" because of the presence of street prostitutes in the area surrounding the street.
(ʿĪd al-Fiṭr is "the biggest" holiday, a three-day period of "feasting, gift-giving and general letting go").
All the old-fashioned professors would have approached Scotland Yard to get the importation of his writings prohibited.
Restrictions on religious freedom Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion, although there were some restrictions.
Minority religions Baháʼí Faith During the interwar period between the World Wars, when Bosnia and Herzegovina became part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, several members of Yugoslavian royalty had contact with prominent members of the Baháʼí Faith.
Another Catholic bishop, Wawrzyniec Goślicki, was excommunicated by the Holy See for acceding to the repeated acts of the Sejm of 1587.
The government of North Macedonia has at times taken action against Serbian Orthodox priests and Macedonian Orthodox priests seeking to reconcile with the Serbian church.
Religious persecution in the Soviet Union was halted in the 1980s, leading to a religious revival in Ukraine.
By 305, after the Diocletian persecution of the third century, many of those who had recanted during the persecution, wanted to return to the Church.
Accommodationists therefore reinterpret the First Amendment to make of religious liberty a positive right, the exercise of which is to be encouraged by the government.
Indian National Congress leader Rahul Gandhi termed the incident "persecution" and "BJP-RSS mob rule," stating that it reflects a dangerous pattern of systematic persecution of minorities under the current regime.
The articles unilaterally restricted freedom of faith and conscience by explicitly denying certain rights to certain religions.
Australia In Australia, most states and territories have repealed laws against fortune-telling that were inherited from English law.
The arrests were made on allegations of human trafficking and religious conversion, under the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) and the Chhattisgarh Religious Freedom Act, 1968.
Three questions were presented: Whether or not school children who were members who are members of a religious sect may be expelled from school for disobedience to Republic Act No.
The English government attempted unsuccessfully several times to dissuade such use of the Spanish and Portuguese embassies between 1563 and 1611.
The governor finally agreed by signing the Eternal Edict on 12 February, after which Spanish troops began to withdraw, largely to the Duchy of Luxembourg, which had always remained royalist.
Government rulings limiting religious practices The law requires that animals be stunned prior to slaughter, which effectively bans halal or kosher butchers from operating in Slovenia.
The northern part of the city of Azraq has a sizable Druze population, as does Umm Al-Jamal in the governorate of Mafraq.
Catholic schools are closed or replaced with institutes of the State which teach nothing at all about God or religion.
While the Witnesses agreed to drop assault charges pending the priest's apology, none was forthcoming.
History IPPFoRB was established on 8 November 2014 with the signing of the Oslo Charter for Freedom of Religion or Belief at the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo.
During this period, Norwegian kings such as Olaf II of Norway converted to Christianity, and propagated it within their kingdoms to reify their authority.
It is obligatory to kill their scholars and religious figures so that they do not misguide others", which in that setting would have legitimized violence against them as apostates.
1.8% of Colombians adhere to Jehovah's Witnesses and Adventism and less than 1% adhere to other religions, such as Islam, Judaism, Buddhism, Mormonism, Hinduism, Indigenous religions, Hare Krishna movement, Rastafari movement, Eastern Orthodox Church, and spiritual studies.
This religion is taught in state schools and has special constitutional protection; furthermore, its clergy constitute an Estate of the realm.
The Marrakesh Declaration is a statement made in January 2016 by "more than 250 Muslim religious leaders, heads of state, and scholars", which champions "defending the rights of religious minorities in predominantly Muslim countries".
The Quakers received their dispensation in 1842, and in 1843 the Catholic Church received permission to establish a congregation.
The conflict was largely closed by the Ohrid Agreement, which provided for additional recognition and rights for ethnic Albanians in Macedonia and voluntary disarmament by rebel groups, although sporadic incidences of violence have occurred in the years since then.
An additional declaration allowed provinces and cities that wished to remain Roman Catholic to join the union.
Followers of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, the largest non-Orthodox church with an estimated four million members, reside primarily in the western oblasts of Lviv, Lutsk, Ivano-Frankivsk, and Ternopil.
The Grand Imam of N’Djamena is the de jure president of the HCIA and oversees the heads of the HCIA branches and grand imams from each of the country's 23 provinces.
The matter was eventually resolved by the passage of Catholic Emancipation in 1829 without such a condition.
In 2012, the parliament of Norway passed a law establishing the separation of church and state, although the Church of Norway is still mentioned in the constitution and accorded with a special status.
Alexis de Tocqueville noted that most Christian denominations produce similar political effects in society: The sects that exist in the United States are innumerable.
The Jōdo Shinshū side did not stand idly by and watch this chaotic situation, and following Shimaji Mokurai, Atsumi Kaien, Akamatsu Renjo and other theoreticians went out one after another to advise the government to cooperate.
The bench, comprising Chief Justice Sanjiv Khanna and Justice Sanjay Kumar, reiterated its earlier directive of April 17 that only five consolidated petitions would be heard under the case titled "In Re: Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025".
The revolution and the republic allegedly took a "hostile" approach to the issue of church and state separation, like that of the French Revolution, the Spanish Constitution of 1931 and the Mexican Constitution of 1917.
The cantons and the Confederation reserve the right to take appropriate measures to maintain order and public peace among the members of the various religious communities and to prevent encroachments by ecclesiastical authorities on the rights of citizens and the state.
The Metropolis of Bessarabia, which regards itself as the legal and canonical successor to the pre-World War II Romanian Orthodox Church, being endorsed by the ECHR, does not accept this decision.
The Teatro Junquera Construction In 1894 the residents of the district of Parian (in what is now Cebu City) staged a Spanish play titled El Alcalde Interino.
The Catholic Church was the state church until it was de facto disestablished with the 1948 Constitution, then definitely with the 1984 revision of the Lateran Treaty.
Beginning in the late 18th century, Austria-Hungary adopted reforms that granted some religious freedom, first to Orthodox and Protestant Christians, and later to Jews as well.
In March 2024, the Verkhovna Rada received a threatening letter from Robert Amsterdam, the head of the legal company "Amsterdam & Partners LLP", which is financed by the sanctioned former deputy Vadym Novynskyi, regarding the draft law banning the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine.
During the Kuomintang Pacification of Qinghai, the Muslim General Ma Bufang and his army wiped out many Tibetan Buddhists in the northeast and eastern Qinghai, and destroyed Tibetan Buddhist temples.
Weatherhead, published by the Board of Practice and Procedure of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1997), ISBN 0-86153-246-5.
This movement clashed with Diệm's Personalist Revolution, an abstruse form of communitarianism that blended Mounier's personalism with contemporary Vietnamese discourse among others.
During the medieval and early modern periods, modern Slovenia was part of the Holy Roman and later Austro-Hungarian empires, and thus had a strict state religion of Catholicism.
Since incorporation into China, Dalai Lama have at times sanctioned Chinese control of the territory, while at other times they have been a focal point of political and spiritual opposition to the Chinese government.
To this end the Stasi Commission lead to the introduction of the French law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools.
The first such edict was decreed in 1860 by Karl XV and the Ståndsriksdag; the second one in 1873 by Oscar II and the reorganized bicameral Riksdag.
The Caucus plays a critical role in raising the profile of numerous religious freedom issues in Congress and with both the Bush and Obama Administrations, and led to the release of many individuals imprisoned for their faith and ensures relief for many suffering under religious persecution.
Forced religious conversion There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
Overview Drukpa Kagyu (Mahayana) Buddhism is the state religion, although in the southern areas many citizens openly practice Hinduism.
According to the latest MINATD statistics (released in 2002), there are 38 officially registered denominations, most of which are Christian.
The Kilgour–Matas report concluded that, "the government of China and its agencies in numerous parts of the country, in particular hospitals but also detention centres and 'people's courts', since 1999 have put to death a large but unknown number of Falun Gong prisoners of conscience.
In 2023, Armenia was scored 2 out of 4 for religious freedom by Freedom House, an organization associated with the US State Department.
As half of Christianity suffers persecution, the other half is united with their brothers and sisters in prayer, that better times may quickly come upon the whole Church.
He uses heresy in a neutral manner in order to place the concept as an obligation of true Christians.
The Constitution of the United Arab Emirates provides for freedom of religion by established customs, and the government generally respects this right in practice; however, there are some restrictions (e.g.
By the same token, they believe that the First Amendment excludes only the direct establishment of, or preferential treatment for, a particular religion.
Marcelo Bacalso wrote a division memorandum recalling the previous Supreme Court's decision Gerona v.
The religious schools and hospitals of John of God were exempt because they reduced government spending in these areas.
According to CIPFG, the role of the Human Rights Torch Relay was to raise awareness of Human rights in the People's Republic of China, especially the persecution of Falun Gong.
In 1984, following a revised accord with the Vatican, Catholicism lost its status as the official religion of the Italian state and Italy became a secular state.
In December 2018, numerous Orthodox parishes therefore split and founded the Orthodox Church of Ukraine (OCU).
Neither the Ståndsriksdag, divided into four Estates, nor the newer Riksdag could be said to be truly democratic, though, as the suffrage was restricted to males who owned property.
See also Charles O'Conor (priest) References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed.
The Waldensians were a medieval proto-Protestant group that urged separation of the Church from state.
Situation in Transnistria In the early 2000s, the Transnistrian authorities have developed a new textbook that was to be used at all school levels, which reportedly contained negative and defamatory information regarding the Jehovah's Witnesses.
Although there have been many foreign workers and Saudi citizens belonging to the Ahmadiyya sect in Saudi Arabia, Ahmadis are officially banned from entering the country and from performing the Hajj and Umrah pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina.
The law grants property tax exemptions to religious organizations and considers them nonprofit organizations.
For instance, the Taiwan Council for Religion and Peace, the China Religious Believers Association, and the Taiwan Religious Association are private organizations that promote greater understanding and tolerance among adherents of different religions.
Catholics were allowed to worship under strict conditions through the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1791 (31 Geo.
Pro studied in Mexico until 1914 when a massive wave of governmental anti-Catholicism forced the novitiate to dissolve and the Jesuits to flee to Los Gatos, California, in the United States.
The War Against Catholicism: Liberalism and the Anti-Catholic Imagination in Nineteenth-Century Germany (University of Michigan Press, 2004) Gruber, Hermann (1909).
Hearing this, Diệm agreed to declare martial law effective the next day, without consulting his cabinet.
There has also been increased monitoring and investigation by police of Tibetan Buddhist religious celebrations.
10), passed following the union between Scotland and England, granted limited toleration, specifically the right to worship for Scottish Episcopalians who prayed for the monarch and used the English Book of Common Prayer.
In the latter stages of World War II, in particular during the period of the Italian Social Republic and of German occupation of much of the peninsula, many Jews, as well as non-Jew political dissidents and even Catholic priests, were deported to the Nazi death camps.
Groups without signed conventions, such as the Baháʼí Faith, may operate freely but do not receive state funding.
The 2012 Pew Research Center report estimates of the size of the Christian community ranges from 0.5% to 3.5% of the total population.
Presumably, Calles thought that the sight of the pictures would frighten the Cristero rebels who were fighting against his troops, particularly in the state of Jalisco.
In 2003, Amir Taheri quoted a Shi'ite businessman from Dhahran as saying "It is not normal that there are no Shi'ite army officers, ministers, governors, mayors and ambassadors in this kingdom.
Extremism laws The 2002 Law on Extremism, amended in July 2006, can affect religious groups, particularly Muslim groups, by criminalizing a broad spectrum of activities.
Freedom of religion in Sri Lanka is a protected right under Chapter II, Article 9 of the constitution of Sri Lanka.
The confederation also pursued the goal of a religious tolerance edict, while ensuring the political equality of dissenters with Catholics.
See also Separation of church and state Further reading The Constitution and Laws of the Church of Scotland, edited by the Very Rev Dr James L.
Nevertheless, in the years leading up to the unification of Italy the Kingdom of Sardinia was more tolerant than other states on the peninsula: in the Grand Duchy of Tuscany the practice of religions other than Catholicism was punishable by imprisonment or exile.
International organizations UN Human Rights Office: On September 9, 2024, the UN Human Rights Office said that the law had "raised serious concerns regarding the freedom of religion".
The Meiji Constitution stated that subjects will have freedom of religion as long as it does not interfere with their duties as subjects, which has been interpreted as making the Imperial Cult separate.
The Coalition to Investigate the Persecution of Falun Gong in China (CIPFG) is an international non-governmental organization established in the United States on April 5, 2006, by the Falun Dafa Association.
The Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland – often known as the Declaratory Articles - were drawn up early in the 20th century to facilitate the union of the Church of Scotland and the United Free Church of Scotland.
The "Jesuits' Law" of 1872 banned any branch establishment of the Society of Jesus on the territory of the German Reich.
it is expressly forbidden to bleed slaughter animals without first stunning them; this provision applies to all methods of slaughter and to all types of livestock.
The Constitution of Jordan provides for the freedom to practice the rights of one's religion and faith in accordance with the customs that are observed in the Kingdom, unless they violate public order or morality.
On November 27, 1990, the Supreme Court issued a temporary restraining order and a writ of preliminary mandatory injunction commanding the respondents to immediately re-admit the petitioners to their respective classes until the further orders from the court.
The confiscation of Church properties and changes in the scope of religious liberties (in general, increasing the rights of non-Catholics and non-observant Catholics, while licensing or prohibiting the orders) generally accompanied secularist and governmental reforms.
These groups included the Columbian Centre for Christian-Muslim Relations, the National Council of Churches in Australia and its affiliated Aboriginal and Islander Commission, and the Australian Council of Christians and Jews.
In contrast, assigned readings over 12 years of primary and secondary schooling devoted to covering the history, literature, and cultures of the non-Muslim world come to a total of about 40 pages.
The constitution of Northern Cyprus protects the freedom of religion, and it states that Northern Cyprus is a secular state.
The December 2006 conference "A Multi-Ethnic Russia" was cosponsored by the Federation Council and UNESCO and included sessions on religious diversity and tolerance.
The NGO Sova Centre reported at the end of the reporting period that the Vladimir Muslim community still was not able to obtain public land to build a mosque.
These city-states reached their apex in the 14th and 15th centuries, after which they deteriorated following conflict with Portugal in the 16th to 17th centuries.
Third, the timeframes for consultation at the referral and panel stages would be extended to give more time for those affected by the projects to participate.
Under the logistic model, population growth rate between these two limits is most often assumed to be sigmoidal (Figure 1).
Nutrient depletion is a form of resource depletion and refers to the loss of nutrients and micronutrients in a habitat or parts of the biosphere, most often the soil (soil depletion, soil degradation).
These zones are created by the tidal movements of water along the rocky shores from high to low-tide.
Terminology and variations The term "high performance bedding" (HPB) is used to refer to 1/4" and 3/8" crushed rock.
In the spirit of land use politics, even the unified voices of the concerned abutters may sound only faintly against the machinery of "progress" or well-funded special interests.
From the late Republic through the first two centuries CE, ownership and management were diverse: some salinae were state property leased out to tax-farming companies, but many were run under municipal or private control; a universal state monopoly is not supported by the available evidence.
The Protocol was developed in a unique collaboration between 38 organisations who signed voluntary, pre-competitive contracts.
2025 Final List of Critical Minerals In November 2025, the Department of the Interior released the final 2025 List of Critical Minerals assessed by the U.S.
Pickands Mather and Company was formed in 1883, dealing in iron ore and pig iron, and mining iron ore from two mines in the Marquette Iron Range.
For example, most irrigation systems waste water; typically, only between 35% and 50% of water withdrawn for irrigated agriculture ever reaches the crops.
During investigations in late December on the research vessel R/V Gyre cruise 84-G-12, by Texas A&M University, two bottom trawls were conducted to determine the effects of oil seepage on benthic ecology (until this investigation, all effects of oil seepage were assumed to be detrimental).
The historical distinction between "land" and "capital" defined "land" as naturally occurring with a fixed supply, whereas "capital", as originally defined referred only to man-made goods.
Today, the transportation planning activities attached to metropolitan planning organizations are the loci for the care and feeding of regional land-use models.
The government established the Bureau of Oil and Gas which is under the Ministry of Basic Industry and Mining in 1961.
Criticism Whilst measuring the components of natural capital in any region is a relatively straightforward process, both the task and the rationale of putting a monetary valuation on them, or on the value of the goods and services they freely give us, has proved more contentious.
Department of Defense, is the primary agency responsible for analyzing, planning, procuring, and managing materials that are critical to national security.
This list incorporates materials deemed critical for energy applications and minerals from the 2022 final list designated by the Department of the Interior through the United States Geological Survey (USGS).
In Egypt, craftsmen used alabaster for canopic jars and various other sacred and sepulchral objects.
Criticism A 2024 study examining circular procurement in the Chinese manufacturing sector found that its impact on environmental performance was relatively minimal.
This is in conjunction with the ecological red line endeavour which restricts human activities in forests and calls for replacing the depleted ones.
This view is supported by evidence that, although land can come on and off the market, market inventories of land show, if anything, an inverse relationship to price (i.e., negative elasticity).
Many older walls were constructed from stones and boulders cleared from the fields during preparation for agriculture (field stones) although some used stone quarried nearby.
Economist Tyler Cowen cites examples of animal species whose extinction is not generally regarded as having been on balance bad for the world.
Features of a watershed that agencies seek to manage to include water supply, water quality, drainage, stormwater runoff, water rights and the overall planning and utilization of watersheds.
The end result of nutrient depletion is nutrient deficiency, or the lack of key resources within a medium.
Notably, compensatory afforestation does not inhibit human activities on forests but rather creates room for them and calls for the planting of new ones.
Developing countries have refused to issue permits for basic biodiversity research unrelated to bioprospecting, even prosecuting the scientist in some cases.
Economies of scale, which might be realized if fewer, larger operations served larger marketing areas, would probably not offset the increased transportation costs.
Structure The ministry consists of the following departments: Natural Gas Petroleum Conflict Resolution Research and Statistics Administration Department of Finance and Accounts.
In this way the plan is a tool to prepare and justify annual budgets, for allocating budgets, and to guide annual work priorities, and facilitate the scheduling and sequencing of projects.
The bayou flows through the Tallulah,–Richmond area and joins Roundaway Bayou near Richmond; it is part of the Tensas River basin.
Asia In Indonesia, gizzard and liver (ati ampela) are considered part of a complete fried poultry dish.
Criticism Ecological economist Clive Spash criticized Hartwick's Rule for its "self-evident lack of realism".
Labour MPs Parker, Brooking, Phil Twyford, Warren-Clark, Arena Williams, Tracey McLellan, and Sosene, and Green MP Sage gave speeches defending the Bill.
Alabaster is also found, in smaller quantity, at Watchet in Somerset, near Penarth in Glamorganshire, and elsewhere.
By contrast, National and ACT MPs including Scott Simpson, Stuart Smith, Simon Court, Sam Uffindell, and David Bennett expressed concerns about red tape and centralisation, and claimed that the bill would do little to address the housing shortage.
These include Stagnation zone Flow deflection zone Flow separation zone / recirculation zone Maximum velocity zone Flow recovery zone Shear layers Engineering The broader field of engineering encompasses a vast assortment of subjects which concern confluences.
By the end of the war, demand for helium had dropped precipitously and the operation of most production plants ceased.
Due to the large volume of submitters, the committee decided to filter the number of oral submissions using a ballot system.
However, little of the sediment is from current rivers; some 60–70% of the sediment on the world's shelves is relict sediment, deposited during the last ice age, when sea level was 100–120 m lower than it is now.
In 1997, the Government of Ontario issued a forestry licence for clear-cutting to Abitibi-Consolidated Inc.
The difference between total investment in some kinds of capital and total disinvestment in other types of capital has been labelled "genuine savings".
Regulations may also provide an abutter with the right to be heard at the hearing, unlike others who must request permission to be heard, at the discretion of the board.
Ontario, Canada LUR was used to predict the concentration of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, m/p-xylene, and o-xylene (BTEX) concentrations in Ontario.
One school of thought entertains the notion of war over water, the ultimate progression of an unresolved water dispute—scarce water resources combined with the pressure of exponentially increasing population may outstrip the ability of the WTO to maintain civility in trade issues.
It is usually cooked as a street food in a skewered barbecue style, though some households treat it like an entree.
The group is made up of more than 100 women from seven nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon and advocates for the protection of nature, territory, women's rights, health, education, and Indigenous culture in Ecuador.
Further, the transfer often occurs on a later date, such as the date when the 'earning barrier' has been met.
Many of the dry-stone walls that exist today in Scotland can be dated to the 14th century or earlier when they were built to divide fields and retain livestock.
In contrast, in some cases wetlands are also flooded to be converted to recreational lakes or hydropower generation.
Culp produced an energy conversion table describing the different conversions from one energy to another.
Many scientists have voiced concern over the protocol, fearing the increased red tape will hamper disease prevention and conservation efforts.
Production costs are determined mainly by the cost of labor, equipment, energy, and water, in addition to the costs of compliance with environmental and safety regulations.
Boston Boston has been known historically for the high-cost of living that accompanies residence there, as well as being subject to various urban renewal projects during America's Urban Renewal era.
Sea-salt production in antiquity was fundamental to food preservation, animal husbandry and crafts, yet the archaeological footprint of the salt pans (salinae) themselves is comparatively scarce, making the reconstruction of production landscapes and practices challenging.
If there is need to go to war, we could get millions readied." Egypt sees the dam as an existential threat.
To Pogge, the world order currently violates the first principle of justice (equal opportunity), as well as the second principle (equal access to offices, but also the idea that inequalities should favour the poorest individuals).
3 (1873) (“Treaty 3”), thus limiting First Nation harvesting rights." The Ojibway had yielded ownership of their territory to Canada, through the signing in 1873 of Treaty 3.
Koilin lining In order to protect the muscles of the gizzard, the organ has a multi-layered membrane - or gastric cuticle - made of koilin, a carbohydrate-protein complex (and not keratin as once believed) to protect the muscles.
The sample is one centimeter in diameter and has been entrusted to the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History with the catalog number USNM7554.
Status-quo bias: A tendency to assume that the current state of nature, including predation and suffering, is morally optimal simply because it is the way things are.
The densification of the new mixed water parcel is a result of a slight contraction upon mixing; a decrease in volume of the combined water parcel.
1953 – 1972 The National September 11 Memorial & Museum, located at the World Trade Center site in New York City, with two reflecting pools on the location where the Twin Towers stood Gallery == References ==
The incident attracted widespread media attention and the neighborhoods surrounding Love Canal have since been destroyed.
Resource productivity is the quantity of good or service (outcome) that is obtained through the expenditure of unit resource.
Labour's acting environmental spokesperson David Parker and Environmental Defence Society CEO Gary Taylor criticised the inclusion of several "environmentally questionable" projects including Trans-Tasman Resources' seabed mining and the Waitaha Hydro Project.
Larger ones may be between 450 and 600 mm (18 and 24 in) in height, which are called "Cripple Holes".
Water supply and loss Ponds outside of gardens are fed by four main water sources: rain, inflows (springs and streams), surface runoff, and groundwater.
The latter area includes the large Amsterdam mud volcano, which is affected by recent mudflows, and the smaller Kazan or Kula mud volcanoes.
Environmental and Resource Economics (ERE) is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering environmental economics published monthly.
Energy quality evaluation methods There appear to be two main kinds of methodology used for the calculation of energy quality.
North America In Mexico, there are famous deposits of a delicate green variety at La Pedrara, in the district of Tecali, near Puebla.
The coal production of this zone was comparable with that of all of British India, and half of that produced by Japan.
Here, stratification can vary on timescales from the semidiurnal tidal cycle through to the springs-neap tidal cycle due to a process known as "tidal straining".
As a result, the Aral Sea's water has become much saltier and the sea's water level has decreased by over 60%.
the central Pacific), even in lakes, and are thought to have been a feature of the seas and oceans at least since the deep oceans were oxygenated in the Ediacaran period over 540 million years ago.
During the 1980s, the Environmental Law Clinic doubled in size and was renamed the Pacific Northwest Natural Resources Clinic.
The committee was funded by the Ford Foundation to assist in the development of the nascent urban economics field.
(Note---the historic term of “recreation” has largely been replaced by the phrase “recreation opportunity” as defined above).
The nominated international organization would follow rules established by lawyers, economists, and other professionals from around the world.
But the RUF – despite being both numerically inferior and extremely brutal against civilians – controlled a significant portion of the country by the year's end.
The bayou parallels portions of Louisiana Highway 602; the National Register nomination for Crescent Plantation notes that “Brushy Bayou runs in front of the plantation residence” and that LA 602 follows the route of Brushy and Walnut bayous.
Australia In 2024 the Australian government announced a "Future Made in Australia" initiative as a new industrial policy for Australia, supporting manufacturing and exploitation of critical mineral resources as part of Australia's renewable energy transition.
References Citations General and cited sources Solomon, Eldra Pearl; Berg, Linda R.; Martin, Diana W.
After certain practices are installed, it is important to continuously monitor these systems to ensure that they are working properly in terms of improving environmental quality.
Then, in March 2023, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed the Critical Raw Materials Act, "for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council establishing a framework for ensuring a secure and sustainable supply of critical raw materials".
When the fowler used falconry, he seems to have needed to catch and train his hawks; the Colloquium mentions: The fowler offering to sell a hawk in exchange for a swift dog.
Based on the results, they selected the PVEX corer for additional development in an integrated WINE prototype.
This would also eliminate participation of owners of unrecorded title, such as adverse possession or those who have simply failed to record a deed or settle an estate involving the adjacent property.
This price jump was an incentive for private companies to enter the market and sell helium at lower prices.
Germany, 35 billion cubic metres (1.2 trillion cubic feet), supplies ceased due to Nord Stream or the refusal to pay in rubles resulting in supplies being terminated.
Examples Freestanding "kill" Examples of the freestanding use of "kill" are: Anthony Kill, in Saratoga County, New York which flows from Round Lake through the city of Mechanicville into the Hudson River.
Accounting As a tangible asset, land is represented in accounting as a fixed asset or a capital asset.
Mainly in England, there were still more specialised painters from the 18th century who produced portraits of racehorses and prize specimens of livestock, whereas in France animal subjects continued to be decorative capriccios often set around garden statuary.
Usually, the pond will be filled by a combination of tap water, rainwater, and surface runoff – and lost to evaporation.
On the island separating the two portions of the falls is a park with military monuments, among them the Ottawa Memorial.
In urban settings, managing areas to prevent soil loss and control stormwater flow are a few of the areas that receive attention.
For researchers, helium is irreplaceable because it is essential for producing very low temperatures.
The Rivers State Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is a government ministry of Rivers State, Nigeria in charge of monitoring, controlling, and regulating activities related to energy and natural resources in the state.
There are about equal numbers of paintings of dead animals, usually in a kitchen setting or as hunting trophies in a landscape, and of live ones, often in ferocious combat.
LULU's present externalities in various ways, most notably those that inflict the senses: harsh smell, reduced aesthetics, noise pollution, and poor livability.
Alternate supplies In May 2022 small natural gas exporter Peru increased its export of liquified natural gas to Europe, especially to Spain and the United Kingdom in the first five months of 2022, by 74% compared to the same period in 2021.
This could reduce compaction and lessen the amount of disturbed sediment at the rear of the vehicle.
The global resources dividend (GRD) is a method of tackling global poverty advanced from 1994 onwards by the philosopher Thomas Pogge.
References Further reading Asheim, Geir B.; Buchholtz, Wolfgang; Hartwick, John M.; Mitra, Tapan; Withagen, Cees (2007).
The efficiency of energy services is dependent on the engineered technology used to produce and supply energy.
In 1985, Stevens stepped down, and handed the nation's preeminent position to Major General Joseph Momoh, who inherited a destroyed economy but was regarded as mostly successful in rooting out corruption and graft within his government.
Capital or infrastructure In economics, capital goods or capital are "those durable produced goods that are in turn used as productive inputs for further production" of goods and services.
The practice of the three R's – reduce, reuse, and recycle must be followed to save and extend the availability of resources.
Oftentimes, seasonal ponds are utilized as a breeding ground, allowing amphibian (such as frogs and toads) and invertebrate (such as fairy shrimp) larvae space to develop without aquatic predators like fish.
Wild habitats occupy steep land and other areas that are less profitable for commercial use, such as wetlands, moorlands and mountainous terrain.
General precepts Recreation Resource Planners Recreation resource planners are professionals and should have a university degree in recreation resource planning, urban or regional planning, landscape architecture, or a closely related field.
Occurrence Formations including grayite were originally documented in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) in 1957 and subsequently around the globe.
Based on article 1 of an 1891 agreement, the SCC found that the "disputed territory belonged to Ontario".
In recent years there has been some interest and research in the growing of fast-producing woodland crops like willow for biomass for energy production.
It is suggested that land managers could follow these guidelines: Examine impacts of local decisions in a regional context, and the effects on natural resources.
Pogge estimates that a dividend of just 1% could raise $300 billion each year; this would equal $250 for each individual in the world's poorest quintile.
The depth of this site is only 80 m, which is the shallowest point where Siboglinidae are known to live.
A salt evaporation pond is a shallow artificial salt pan designed to extract salts from sea water or other brines.
Non-resident species are commonly divided into two groups: secondary residents (also known as partial residents or opportunists) and transients (which can be further classified as tidal and seasonal transients).
The resulting civil war lasted almost 11 years, and had over 50,000, up to 70,000, casualties in total; an estimated 2.5 million people were displaced during the conflict, and widespread atrocities occurred.
Ice can be used (like other cold packs) to reduce swelling (by decreasing blood flow) and pain by pressing it against an area of the body.
Destruction of a forest in a given location especially in towns results to more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere which affects air quality.
And if we consider only the light form of energy then light with higher frequency has greater quality (Ohta 1994, p.
Resource productivity and resource intensity are key concepts used in sustainability measurement as they attempt to decouple the direct connection between resource use and environmental degradation.
Kementerian ESDM) is an Indonesian ministry responsible for providing assistance to the President and Vice President in performing government's affairs in the field of energy and mineral resources.
With spines, some filled with poison like with "Toxopneustes pileolus", that protect them from predators they feed almost undisturbed in tide pools.
Some parts, like the Vale of Tywi and the coastal plain of Ceredigion are famed for dairy farming, as the combinations of soils and climate mean that good quality grass can be reliably grown.
If more individuals than this are removed from the population, the population is at risk for decline to extinction.
In 1974, the Wayne Morse Chair of Law and Politics was established as a "living memorial" to former dean and U.S.
Cobwork (tabya) was used in the Maghreb and al-Andalus in the 11th and 12th centuries, and was described in detail by Ibn Khaldun in the 14th century.
From the year 1996 on these conferences have taken place (or will take place) in the following cities: 2021 - Online Conference 2020 - No Conference 2019 - Montreal, Canada 2018 - Groningen, The Netherlands.
One of the greatest barriers to entry for poor individuals to join in the environmental justice movement is legal fees.
The new ministry is responsible for sustainable development of energy and natural resources while ensuring optimal contribution to national welfare.
Although the research is funded by NASA, this water-harvesting system is available to private companies to use it on asteroids, comets, the Moon, Ceres, Europa, Titan, Pluto, the poles of Mercury, or anywhere there is water and sufficiently low gravity.
The Nutty Narrows Bridge in Longview, Washington, built in 1963, is regarded as the first of its kind.
Notable alumni Judges Ann Aiken (1979) – Senior Judge, former Chief Judge, United States District Court for the District of Oregon Robert C.
Circular procurement has received notable attention across the AI ecosystem, particularly for semiconductors used by enterprise adopters in data centers, high-performance computing, and AI infrastructure.
Within a mineral species there may be variation in physical properties or minor amounts of impurities that are recognized by mineralogists or wider society as a mineral variety.
Galloway dykes consist of a base of double-wall construction or larger boulders with single-wall construction above.
He invested widely in Michigan iron mines, and by 1882 was a wealthy man ready to form his own company.
The bridges are a measure for wildlife management and natural habitat preservation, and serve the functions of both animal welfare and accident prevention.
It is of moderate hardness occurring occasionally in aggregates of hexagonal crystals occasionally but more commonly in microgranular/cryptocrystalline masses.
Mujeres Amazónicas Defensoras de la Selva de las Bases frente al Extractivismo (English: Amazonian Women Defending the Forest from Extractivism), also known as Mujeres Amazónicas (English: Amazonian Women), is an Indigenous environmental rights group.
This requires some linkage to the environmental characteristics of the area, especially characteristics that influence pollutant emission intensity and dispersion efficiency.
In 2005, Grassy Narrows filed a legal challenge to the Ontario license granted to Abitibi-Consolidated in an "effort to stop the logging", which initially succeeded.
While recuperating from a mining accident, he met and married Flora Stone, daughter of Cleveland industrialist and railroad magnate Amasa Stone.
The book The Long Affray describes 38 violent fights in the 19th century and 3 in the 18th century, some with shooting and/or death, of gamekeepers plus their helpers versus poachers.
In the same year, they proposed a case to the Ecuadorian National Assembly to declare the Amazon Kawsak Sacha, or a “Living Forest,” which would encourage practices that build mutual relations between non-human and human entities in the Amazon.
On rivers and streams Ice which forms on moving water tends to be less uniform and stable than ice which forms on calm water.
The Mughal garden reflecting pools at the Taj Mahal in Agra, India Chehel Sotoun in Iran The Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool and Capitol Reflecting Pool, in Washington, D.C.
As the UN mission began to fail, the United Kingdom declared its intention to intervene in the former colony and Commonwealth member in an attempt to support the severely weak government of President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah.
Other locations where it has been found is Washington, Alaska, Yellowstone National Park, British Columbia, Iceland, Sardinia, and Reunion island.
This CV3 carbonaceous chondrite was the largest ever recovered on earth and is referred to as the best-studied meteorite in history.
Ocean currents are responsible for bringing this warmer, saltier water to higher latitudes, especially on the eastern shores of Northern Hemisphere continents, and on the western shores of Southern Hemisphere continents.
In the Indian subcontinent, the irrigation requirements of Bangladesh determine water allocations of the Ganges River.
A 2025 market analysis reported that the circular economy market had grown by an average of 43% annually since 2020.
Research has also found a correlation between the economy and soil fertility, demonstrating that population pressure on the environment affects a nation's economic health.
Farming and forestry account for nearly all of the land surface, but there are other land-uses that overlap with this.
In this case, the strategic plan would call for an alternative supply chain or alternative materials in the event of a breakdown in the current supply chain.
Similar concepts for other species See also Bat bridge Amphibian and reptile tunnel References Further reading Why did the squirrel cross the road?
Calcite alabaster also is known as onyx-marble, Egyptian alabaster, and Oriental alabaster, which terms usually describe either a compact, banded travertine stone or a stalagmitic limestone colored with swirling bands of cream and brown.
Farmees often enter into farmout agreements to obtain an acreage position, or because they need to use underutilized personnel or share risks, or because they desire to obtain geological information.
The sustainability objective is to maximize resource productivity while minimizing resource intensity.
As the grade of ores from terrestrial mines has decreased over time, ferromanganese nodules may offer a way to meet the growing global demand for rare metals.
Despite the low value of its basic products, the crushed stone industry is a major contributor to and an indicator of the economic well-being of a nation.
For depletion accounting to work, appropriate units of natural resources must be established so that natural resources can be viable in the market economy.
Then coal extraction revived, and was on a nearly continual increasing trend from 1962 to 2008, exceeding the previous peaks.
The geopolitical elimination of communitary [sic] land use and its effects on our present global condition", Eloquent Books, New York, USA, 71 pp.
The system employs a drill to mine and extract water ice from the surface soil (regolith), purify the water, and heat it to be used as compressed steam for propulsion.
A kill is a body of water, most commonly a creek, but also a tidal inlet, river, strait, or arm of the sea.
These regions can often be biologically highly productive due to mixing caused by the shallower waters and the enhanced current speeds.
In the Dutch Golden Age such specialists tended to produce smaller genre paintings concentrating on their specialism.
Non-commercial biodiversity researchers and institutions such as natural history museums fear maintaining biological reference collections and exchanging material between institutions will become difficult.
Following year 1957 the Ministry of Economy was split into the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Industry, the centers under the Mining Directorate were changed to the Mining and Geological Services.
Now that it is realised people do not behave rationally, research into energy economics is more focused on behaviours and impacting decision-making to close the energy efficiency gap.
It focuses on sustainability and at the same time tries to incorporate all possible stakeholders from the planning level itself, reducing possible future conflicts.
As Ukraine has denied to renew the gas transit agreement with Russia, there are raise of fear for energy shock.
This list is established under the authority of the Energy Act of 2020, specifically Section 7002(a), which empowers the Secretary of Energy, in collaboration with the Secretary of the Interior, to identify critical materials.
However, being charismatic does not protect species against extinction; all of the 10 most charismatic species are currently endangered, and only the giant panda shows a demographic growth from an extremely small population.
For example, when applied to crop irrigation it is the yield of crop obtained through use of a given volume of irrigation water, the “crop per drop”, which could also be expressed as monetary return from product per use of unit irrigation water.
Watersheds replicate this multilateral terrain with private industries and local communities interconnected by a common watershed.
Governments who collect the funds and invest them in luxuries for their elite would be completely or partially forbidden from receiving them.
While most mineral resources will not be exhausted in the near future, global extraction and production has become more challenging.
Relating to MSY, the maximum economic yield (MEY) is the level of catch that provides the maximum net economic benefits or profits to society.
Harris, Britton, Experiments in the Projection of Transportation and Land Use, Traffic Quarterly, April pp.
These Departments share responsibility for delivery of the Australian Government's environment and sustainable agriculture programs, which have traditionally been broadly referred to under the banner of 'natural resource management'.
Adranosite is a mineral discovered in the La Fossa crater, Vulcano, Aeolian Islands, Italy, with the formula (NH4)4NaAl2(SO4)4Cl(OH)2.
Grayite has also been found in sedimentary environments with an observation of high concentrations in cracks raising the possibility of the mineral as a precipitate from fluid mobilized ions.
In the U.S., critical minerals that are at risk of shortage or supply chain disruption are assessed by the United States Geological Survey under the Secretary of the Interior and by the National Science and Technology Council.
A reconnaissance column also skirmished at Richmond on March 31, 1863, near the bayou; marker texts summarize the action.
In the Gulf of Mexico Discoveries The chemosynthetic communities of the Gulf of Mexico have been studied extensively since the 1990s, and communities first discovered on the upper slope are likely the best understood seep communities in the world.
In shallower water with stronger tides and away from river mouths, tidal turbulence overcomes the stratifying influence of surface heating, and the water column remains well mixed for the entire seasonal cycle.
Establishment of planning and decision criteria for evaluating and selecting the preferred alternative.
There are a number of other completed modern cob houses and more are planned, including a public education centre.
Uses of MSY MSY has been especially influential in the management of renewable biological resources such as commercially important fish and wildlife.
The conference is a gathering of environmental activists, advocates, and students from across the United States and the world.
History and usage Cob is an English term attested to around the year 1600 for an ancient building material that has been used for building since prehistoric times.
Creation of the US National Helium Reserve From 1917 to 1962, the Bureau of Mines was the primary producer of helium and it remained the sole purifier of helium until 1963.
Even in the Verses on the Classification of Buddhist Systems, Jitāri heavily relies on Dharmakirti's system of reasoning throughout the text, calling him "the crest jewel of epistemologists", and "the supreme lord of reasoning".
It was authored by the Indian philosopher Bhasarvajna during the period of 10th century CE in the Indian subcontinent.
The terminology had some currency at least until the seventeenth century, and Johannes Clauberg's Logica vetus et nova (1654).
References Footnotes Sources Harbsmeier, Christoph (1998), Kenneth Robinson (ed.), Language and Logic, Joseph Needham: Science and Civilisation in China, vol.
He brought the new school of Nyaya, Navya Nyāya, representing the final development of Indian formal logic, to its zenith of analytic power.
He was quite influential in both Kashmir and Tibet, and became known as "the second Dharmakīrti," and “the Great Brahmin.” Śaṅkaranandana is cited by both Kashmiri Shaiva authors like Abhinavagupta and by Tibetan Buddhist authors and translators.
Inference for Others (Parārthānumāna): This type of inference is presented in a way that can be communicated to others, providing a logical basis for convincing others of a particular conclusion.
Though the theses seem haphazard, and the list lacking in logical structure, Chris Fraser argues that they can be divided into four natural groups: The basic principles (theses 1, 5 and 10) – These are non-paradoxical statements of Hui Shi's ontological doctrines.
The Gongsun Longzi and Other Neglected Texts: Aligning philosophical and philological perspectives (PDF).
This proof established that the Robbins axiom, together with associativity and commutativity, form a 3-basis for Boolean algebra.
ISBN 1-55939-217-7 Shantarakshita (author); Mipham (commentator); Padmakara Translation Group (translators)(2005).
Similarly, the Stoics distinguish all the objects of human pursuit into three classes: good, bad, and adiaphora (indifferent).
Here I am referring not to a determinate particular cup, but to all cups "fused" together, that is all cups "confusedly." This is called confused and distributive supposition.
Within some academic contexts, syllogism has been superseded by first-order predicate logic following the work of Gottlob Frege, in particular his Begriffsschrift (Concept Script; 1879).
Some perceive the atman as having a cause but not effect, an effect but no cause, or indeed a complex causality or causal relationship.
Ratnakīrti's "Proof of Exclusion" (Apohasiddhi) establishes a theory of exclusion that follows Dignāga's theory of the same.
Jenkinson Prior Analytics public domain audiobook at LibriVox Prior Analytics - Uncompressed Audiobook Aristotle: Logic entry by Louis Groarke in the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy Smith, Robin.
Furthermore, it's impossible to take something (P) to be real without, at least momentarily, ignoring or denying that which it is not (not-P).
Chapter 3 The subject of this chapter is the "inference for other" (parārthānumāṇa), the process by which one makes public what one knows, by formal means, using a syllogistic means of argument.
Roughly speaking: a definition with more qualifications or features (the intension) denotes a class with fewer members (the extension), and vice versa.
From about 1910 to 1930, analytic philosophers emphasized creating an ideal language for philosophical analysis, which would be free from the ambiguities of ordinary language that, in their opinion, often led philosophers astray.
And, again, now that we have looked at animal as a species of the genus body, we look at animal now as a genus and consider its differentia, which are shown on the diagram to be irrational and rational.
(PVA 351.5-6) As such, perceptual diversity is not just caused by past latent impressions (seeds in the storehouse consciousness), but by actual past cognitions which reappear or manifest within consciousness.
- ISBN 978-5-02-036573-5 External links Works by Xi Deng at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Xi Deng at the Internet Archive
History Algebraic logic is, perhaps, the oldest approach to formal logic, arguably beginning with a number of memoranda Leibniz wrote in the 1680s, some of which were published in the 19th century and translated into English by Clarence Lewis in 1918.
Roughly a generation later, Diodorus Cronus from the Megarian school of philosophy stated a version of the problem in his notorious master argument.
It appears in William of Sherwood's Introduction to Logic and is given the name Arbor Porphyrii in the most popular medieval logic, Peter of Spain's Summulae Logicales.
It also posits that merely human traditions, namely extrabiblical rites or ceremonies, need not be the same across all congregations.
Academy of Pakshadhara Mishra The academy of Pakshadhara Mishra was a famous centre of learning Nyaya Shastra.
The expression "X is not Y" (X非Y) can mean either "X is not a member (or subset) of set Y" "X is not identical to Y" The sentence "White horses are not horses" would normally be taken to assert the obviously false claim that white horses are not part of the group of horses.
A charismatic speaker well known for his clarity and wit, he once delivered a lecture (1994b) giving an account of Gödel's second incompleteness theorem, employing only words of one syllable.
Bacon hopes that empirical investigation will, similarly, smash the old scientific ideas and lead to greater understanding of the world and heavens.
Idols of the Market (Idola fori) These are "derived as if from the mutual agreement and association of the human race, which I call Idols of the Market on account of men's commerce and partnerships.
References External links Logic Lane information from Oxfordshire County Council Logic Lane films on philosophy
Diogenes Laërtius says that Diodorus also made use of the Sorites paradox, and is said to have invented two others of the same kind, viz.
Here, Dignāga first eliminates authority as a separate valid means of knowledge, stating that it is a kind of inference.
Inside the country, dialectical logic was actively discussed during the Cultural Revolution, while formal logic stagnated.
The Prior Analytics represents the first formal study of logic, where logic is understood as the study of arguments.
O form (otherwise known as particular negative) In an O-proposition, only the predicate is distributed.
The hero of his quasi-philosophical drama is a young graduate of the Mimansa school, who wants to defeat all opponents of Vedas through reasoning.
Graham summarises the arduous textual history of the Canons by arguing that the Canons were neglected throughout most of China's history; but he attributes this fact to "bibliographical" accidents, rather than political repression, like Nakamura.
Diodorus is said to have taken that disgrace so much to heart that after his return from the meal, and writing a treatise on the problem, he died in despair.
Ratnakīrti's work has been termed as "more concise and logical though not so poetical" compared to that of his teacher, although he does build on much of Jñānaśrīmitra's work.
His name is sometimes erroneously confused with Mallanaga, the seer of the Asuras, to whom the origin of erotic science is attributed.
In the uterus, chickens produce ovocleidin-17 (OC-17), which causes the formation of the thickened calcium carbonate shell around their eggs.
Westerink, however, argue that the text is probably an original composition in Armenian because of the exact verbal correspondence with certain quotations from the Armenian versions of Aristotle, David the Invincible and Dionysius Thrax.
{\displaystyle \neg ({\neg x}\lor y)\lor (z\lor y)=y\lor (z\lor x).} The following year, Meredith found a 2-basis in terms of the Sheffer stroke: ( x ∣ x ) ∣ ( y ∣ x ) = x , {\displaystyle (x\mid x)\mid (y\mid x)=x,} x | ( y ∣ ( x ∣ z ) ) = ( ( z ∣ y ) ∣ y ) ∣ x .
Scott has suggested that the theory of supposition proper was designed to answer the question What kind of thing are you talking about?
In its description of set theory, mention is made of Russell's paradox and the Liar paradox (page 145).
This was an advance over the logica antiqua, which treated the Isagoge of Porphyry, Divisions and Topics of Boethius, the Categories and On Interpretation of Aristotle, and the Summule logicales of Peter of Spain.
Similarly, he also authored a version of the text Vishnu Purana at Jamsam which was located on the west side of the disappeared city Amravati in Mithila.
Although Aristotle does not call them "categorical sentences", tradition does; he deals with them briefly in the Analytics and more extensively in On Interpretation.
The extremes (the terms that jut out to the left and right), containing the differentiae, we can take as analogous to the branches of a tree: The diagram shows the highest genus to be substance.
This is an influential work, and attempted to resolve some of the interpretation disputes on classical Sanskrit texts.
It involves naming each object to be analyzed, identifying a distinguishing characteristic for the named object, and verifying the appropriateness of the defining characteristic using pramanas.
Boolos, what does the analytical hierarchy have to do with the real world?" Without hesitating Boolos replied, "It's part of it".
9th or 10th century), (Tibetan: Bde byed dga’ ba) was a Mahayana Buddhist philosopher, and a brahmin lay devotee (upāsaka) active in Kashmir in the epistemological (pramana) tradition of Dignaga and Dharmakīrti.
Ratnakīrti (11th century CE) was an Indian Buddhist philosopher of the Yogācāra and epistemological (pramāṇavāda) schools who wrote on logic, philosophy of mind and epistemology.
The hypothesis must further be broken down into two parts, state the ancient Indian scholars: sadhya (that idea which needs to be proven or disproven) and paksha (the object on which the sadhya is predicated).
The latitudinarian Anglicans of that period built on Richard Hooker's position in Of the Laws of Ecclesiastical Polity, which states God cares about the moral state of the individual soul and that matters such as church leadership are "things indifferent".
Proceedings of a workshop, FOL-75, commemorating the 75th anniversary of the publication of Hilbert and Ackermann (1928).
Dhātu-yamaka – Pairs of elements, subdivided into 18 elements including sense organs, sense objects, types of consciousness, mind element, mind-consciousness element, and mental objects.
When the device was used for the "Rule for the Logic of Certainty", the gray slider was inserted from the left.
However, the summit of this late imperial scholarship, according to Graham, was the 'magnificent' commentary of Sun Yirang, which "threw open the sanctum of the Canons to all comers".
Thus, since inference has pragmatic efficacy, it can be called a pramāṇa, even if it is a concept that does not know the actual form of the object, and is thus ultimately erroneous.
The Nyaya Shastra also known as Indian Logic is one of the six schools of thought in the Indian philosophy.
Bodhyāpattideśanāvṛtti-bodhisattvaśikṣākrama-nāma, a ritual manual for confessing the breaking of bodhisattva precepts.
An Anthology of Sanskrit Court Poetry Volume 44 of the Harvard Oriental Series, 'An Anthology of Sanskrit Court Poetry', is the acclaimed English translation by Ingalls of the Sanskrit text 'Subhasitaratnakosa' of Vidyakara.
Chrysippus, on the other hand, agreed with Diodorus that everything true as an event in the past is necessary, but attacked Diodorus' view that the possible must be either what is true or what will be true.
Plutarch posed the question as a philosophical matter in his essay "The Symposiacs", written in the 1st century CE.
The field was established and formalized by Claude Shannon in the 1940s, though early contributions were made in the 1920s through the works of Harry Nyquist and Ralph Hartley.
The Armenian author or translator has created new words for many of these, in keeping with the tendencies of the Hellenizing School.
Yamaka (यमक; Pali for "pairs"; Vietnamese: Bộ Song Đối (Song Luận)) is a text of the Pali Canon, the scriptures of Buddhist monastic law.
A central issue which concerned Dignāga was the interpretation of signs (linga) or the evidence (hetu) which led one to an inference about states of affairs; such as how smoke can lead one to infer that there is a fire.
Rather, it is something that has already been presented (upalabdha) and is being remembered (anusmrta).
He concludes that Je Tsongkhapa, in making a distinction based on true establishment, proposes a Svatantrika rather than a Prasangika approach.
Notes and references Notes References Further reading Obituary notice in the Harvard Gazette Memorial minutes in the Harvard Gazette Sheldon Pollock (September 1985).
While in an ultimate or absolute sense, all phenomena as seen by Madhyamaka as being "empty" (shunya) of essence or inherent nature (svabhāva), they can be said to have some kind of conventional, nominal or provisional existence.
Beall and Bradley Armour-Garb, have proposed that the liar sentence should be considered to be both true and false, a point of view known as dialetheism.
He aimed to establish clear boundaries for each concept, which he believed was essential for maintaining logical consistency and clarity in philosophical discourse.
{\displaystyle m\subset n\quad {\text{when}}\quad \forall i,j\quad m_{ij}=1\implies n_{ij}=1.} The modern symbol for inclusion first appears in Gergonne (1816), who defines it as one idea 'containing' or being 'contained' by another, using the backward letter 'C' to express this.
Nyayavarttikatatparyaparisuddhi: This is an elaborate commentary on the Nyäyavarttikatätparyatika of Vacaspatimisra.
A syllogism (Ancient Greek: συλλογισμός, syllogismos, 'conclusion, inference') is a kind of logical argument that applies deductive reasoning to arrive at a conclusion based on two propositions that are asserted or assumed to be true.
Their work on modal logic, logical conditionals, and propositional logic played an important role in the development of logic in antiquity.
The proposed classification is non-exclusive; a logic may be both a deviation and an extension of classical logic.
The choice of logarithmic base in the following formulae determines the unit of information entropy that is used.
History The Megarian school of philosophy was founded by Euclides of Megara, who had been one of the pupils of Socrates in the late 5th century BC.
It was adopted for the 1989 translation of the Prior Analytics by Robin Smith and for the 2009 translation of the Prior Analytics Book A by Gisela Striker.
Reformed epistemology Analytic philosophy formed the basis for some sophisticated Christian arguments, such as those of the reformed epistemologists including Alvin Plantinga, William Alston, and Nicholas Wolterstorff.
Ryle Ryle, in The Concept of Mind (1949), criticized Cartesian dualism, arguing in favor of disposing of "Descartes' myth" of the ghost in the machine by recognizing "category errors".
Secondary Sources Barwise, Jon, (ed.), Handbook of Mathematical Logic, Studies in Logic and the Foundations of Mathematics, Amsterdam, North Holland, 1982 ISBN 978-0-444-86388-1 .
In the first volume, seven principles are explained: roots (mūla, e.g., wholesome roots), aggregates (khandha), sense bases (āyatana), elements (dhātu), truths (sacca), mental formations (saṅkhāra), and latent tendencies (anusaya).
[emphasis evident in Robinson] Śūnyatā is the ninth 'view' (Sanskrit: dṛṣṭi), the viewless view, a superposition of the eight possible arrays of proposition P [and its 'inseparable contradistinction' (Sanskrit: apoha)].
The text systematically lays out logical rules for argumentation in the form of a five-step schema and also sets forth a theory of epistemology.
Being one of the six extant Aristotelian writings on logic and scientific method, it is part of what later Peripatetics called the Organon.
To identify a sign, we have to assume that it is present in the pakṣa, however; that is the first condition is already satisfied.
Scholars have struggled to find an accurate date for Gaṅgeśa with the most common estimate placing him in the late thirteenth century however recent opinion now places him in the fourteenth century.
Stilpo is said to have continued the Eleatic tendency, by asserting a strict monism and denying all change and motion, and he also rejected Plato's Theory of Forms.
The Organon (Ancient Greek: Ὄργανον, meaning "instrument, tool, organ") is the standard collection of Aristotle's six works on logical analysis and dialectic.
A form (otherwise known as universal affirmative) An A-proposition distributes the subject to the predicate, but not the reverse.
Wittgenstein was influenced by Frege and Russell and initially considered the Tractatus to have solved all problems of philosophy.
His most famous work in logic was the Tattvacintāmaṇidīdhiti, a commentary on the Tattvacintāmaṇi of Gangeśa Upādhyāya, founder of the Navya Nyāya school.
John Corcoran ( KOR-kər-ən; March 20, 1937 – January 8, 2021) was an American logician, philosopher, mathematician, and historian of logic.
Similarly, the definition of a square may be rearranged and another portion singled out: a square: (a quadrilateral that has bounding sides which all have the same length), and that has interior angles which are all right angles.
History Logic Lane was formerly known as Lawdenyslanesine and then Horseman Lane in the 13th and 14th centuries.
Works Jitāri was a prolific author, writing on many Buddhist and non-Buddhist topics that were discussed in the epistemological tradition of Dharmakirti.
On the one hand, Descartes begins with a doubt of anything which cannot be known with absolute certainty and includes in this realm of doubt the impressions of sense perception, and thus, "all sciences of corporal things, such as physics and astronomy".
This purity is also linked with the dharmadhātu and, according to Radich, "this is the beginning of a process that links *amalavijñāna into a chain of identifications for (aspects of) the Mahāyāna “absolute”.
ISBN 1-55939-205-3 - a study and translation of the primary Gelukpa commentary on Shantarakshita's treatise: Gyal-tsab Je's Remembering The Ornament of the Middle Way.
William Stanley Jevons and John Venn, who also had the modern understanding of existential import, expanded Boole's system.
This avoids the issue that the two different ships exist in the same space at one time and a different space at another time by considering the objects to be distinct from each other at all points in time.
In no small part due to his efforts, Prasaṅgika Madhyamaka replaced Śāntarakṣita's Madhyamaka as the dominant interpretation of Madhyamaka in Tibetan Buddhism.
Calculus of relations A homogeneous binary relation is found in the power set of X × X for some set X, while a heterogeneous relation is found in the power set of X × Y, where X ≠ Y.
A proposition cannot be built from real things or ideas, but it is not just meaningless words either.
Lakṣaṇamālā: This is a short manual giving very clear definitions and the main divisions of the sixteen categories of the Nyaya and the six categories of the Vaisesika system.
In logic and mathematics, inclusion is the concept that all the contents of one object are also contained within a second object.
Roughly speaking, in proving the first incompleteness theorem, Gödel used a modified version of the liar paradox, replacing "this sentence is false" with "this sentence is not provable", called the "Gödel sentence G".
1984e, "Trees and finite satisfiability: Proof of a conjecture of John Burgess," Notre Dame Journal of Formal Logic 25: 193–197.
padat: the fact that at the time of the new creation an instructor is required to teach the living beings the different usages.
Trying to assign to this statement, the strengthened liar, a classical binary truth value leads to a contradiction.
Pakshadhara Mishra (also known by the alias Jayadeva) was a 15th-century Indian philosopher from the Mithila region and the founder of the Nyaya Shastra sampradaya in the tradition of Gaṅgeśa.
The Pramāṇa-samuccaya (Compendium of Epistemology) is a Buddhist philosophical treatise focusing on epistemology (pramana) by Dignāga, an Indian Buddhist logician and epistemologist who lived from c.
Ratnakīrti, therefore argued that at the ultimate level, there is only an undifferentiated non-dual consciousness (vijñānādvaita) since one cannot differentiate consciousness as a whole into different individual minds.
Stadler, and Jan Woleński, eds., The Significance of the Lvov-Warsaw School in the European Culture, Wien, 2017.
Other sources he may have used include the Pseudo-Aristotelian On the Universe, Epicurus's Epistula Pythoclem and Lucretius's De rerum natura.
Contraposition Contraposition is the process of simultaneous interchange and negation of the subject and predicate of a categorical statement.
2712) Prajñāpāramitāpiṇḍārtha (Summary of the Perfection of Wisdom, Derge 3809) - a summary of the Mahayana Aṣṭasāhasrikaprajñāpāramitā, survives in Tibetan and Sanskrit.
Wheel of Reasons Combining these, Dignaga constructed his ‘Wheel of Reasons’ (Hetucakra) with nine distinct possibilities, which may be tabulated as follows (adapted from Matilal, 1998: p.
Applying this method in a straightforward manner yielded "axioms of enormous length", thereby prompting the question of how shorter axioms might be found.
Dreyfus, his philosophical school brought about an Indian "epistemological turn" and became the "standard formulation of Buddhist logic and epistemology in India and Tibet." Dignāga's thought influenced later Buddhist philosophers like Dharmakīrti and also Hindu thinkers of the Nyāya school.
Waismann never finished a book titled Logik, Sprache, Philosophie intended to present the ideas of logical positivism to a wider audience.
Regarding his philosophical position, Tibetan authors often classify him as a Yogācāra-Svātantrika Mādhyamika.
Information theory was initially formed in the context of telecommunication but soon found a wide range of other applications.
He lived in India during the second or third century CE, probably in Pataliputra (modern day Patna in Bihar).
It has been suggested that the work is in fact not finished, but is merely the notes (possibly from lectures) of a first draft.
Influence The Organon was used in the school founded by Aristotle at the Lyceum, and some parts of the works seem to be a scheme of a lecture on logic.
In the fifth century CE, Macrobius wrote that while the question seemed trivial, it "should be regarded as one of importance".
External links The History of Logic from Aristotle to Gödel with annotated bibliographies on the history of logic Bobzien, Susanne.
Ultimate Truth and neither-one-nor-many Like other Madhyamaka thinkers, Śāntarakṣita sees the ultimate truth as being the emptiness of all phenomena (i.e., their lack of inherent existence or essence).
The circumstances of worship are considered adiaphora, although they must be observed for the edification of others and to promote peace and order.
Universal necessity concerns universal truths, while singular necessity concerns something necessary that could not be (it is thus a "contingent necessity").
Early life Ayachi Mishra was born in a Maithil Brahmin family at Sarisab Pahi village of the Madhubani district in the Mithila region of Bihar, India.
The Hindu philosophers, especially those of the Nyāya, Vaiseshika and Vedanta schools, were in constant debate with the Buddhist epistemologists, developing arguments to defend their realist position against the nominalism of the Buddhists.
The Ship of Theseus, also known as Theseus's Paradox, is a paradox and common thought experiment about whether an object (in the most common stating of the paradox, a ship) is the same object after having all of its original components replaced with others over time.
List of American philosophers Notes References Peter Simons (1982) "On understanding Lesniewski," History and Philosophy of Logic.
Vātsyāyana (Sanskrit : वात्स्यायन) was an ancient Indian philosopher, known for authoring the Kama Sutra.
Bacon himself gives the example of Aristotle, "who made his natural philosophy a mere slave to his logic" (Aphorism 54).
In various ancient and medieval texts of Hinduism, 32 types of Upamāna and their value in epistemology are debated.
A genus–differentia definition is a type of intensional definition, and it is composed of two parts: a genus (or family): An existing definition that serves as a portion of the new definition; all definitions with the same genus are considered members of that genus.
Ingalls notes that when criticizing Sanskrit poets, Keith never applies the remarks of any Sanskrit critic to the work he is judging.
Scales marked zero to ten were used to set the numbers or proportions of objects with the two properties.
Peirce articulated this clearly in 1870, arguing also that inclusion was a wider concept than equality, and hence a logically simpler one.
The Navya-Nyāya (sanskrit: नव्य-न्याय) or Neo-Logical darśana (view, system, or school) of Indian logic and Indian philosophy was founded in the 13th century CE by the philosopher Gangeśa Upādhyāya of Mithila and continued by Raghunatha Śiromaṇi of Nabadwipa in Bengal.
Udayana then shows that the cognition of Isvara cannot be said to be invalid even according to the definition of valid cognition given by the opponents.
Most semantics of classical logic are bivalent, meaning all of the possible denotations of propositions can be categorized as either true or false.
The material in the long recension is mostly authentic, but the short recension is closer to the correct order.
Buddha nature Some modern scholars also consider the "Treatise on Buddha Nature" (Foxing lun 佛性論, T.
1150), it has also been ascribed to a different author: Mātṛceṭa Yogāvatāra (Introduction to Yoga, Tibetan: Rnal-ḥbyor-la ḥjug-pa, Derge no.
Later, he was persuaded to accept a compromise known as the Leipzig Interim, deciding that doctrinal differences not related to justification by faith were adiaphora or matters not essential for salvation.
Works Philosophical works Jayanta wrote three known treatises on Nyaya philosophy, of which two survive.
First, in the realm of foundations, Boole reduced Aristotle's four propositional forms to one form, that of equations—by itself a revolutionary idea.
FOL is now a core formalism of mathematical logic, and is presupposed by contemporary treatments of Peano arithmetic and nearly all treatments of axiomatic set theory.
According to legend, it is said that in Gurudakshina, he only asked his disciples to teach at least ten students.
In fact, the definition of a square may be recast in terms of both of the abstractions, where one acts as the genus and the other acts as the differentia: a square: a rectangle that is a rhombus.
Nyāya Sūtra verses IV.1.22 to IV.1.24, for example, examine the hypothesis that "random chance" explains the world, after these Indian scholars had rejected God as the efficient cause.
Deflationism According to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, the deflationist view is that the facts of the thought experiment are undisputed; the only dispute is over the meaning of the term "ship" and is thus merely verbal.
Etymology It is said that he once obtained victory in a debate that lasted a fortnight (Paksha), and after that he was referred to as Pakshadhara Mishra.
Other influential commentaries are Tattvakaumudi on Sāṃkhyakārika; Nyāyasucinibandha on Nyāya-sūtras; Nyāyakānika (an Advaita work on science of reason), Tattvasamikṣa (lost work), Nyāya-vārttika-tātparyaṭīkā (a subcommentary on the Nyāya-sūtras), Tattva-vaiśāradī on Yogasūtra.
The existential viewpoint is a stronger stance than the hypothetical and, when it is appropriate to take, it allows one to deduce more results than otherwise could be made.
The method by which thought is driven from one concept to its contrary, and then to further concepts, is known as the Hegelian dialectic.
The School of Names, a school that grew out of Mohism, is credited by some scholars for their early investigation of formal logic.
La logique ou l’Art de penser, contenant, outre les regles communes, plusieurs observations nouvelles, propres à former le jugement.
Port-Royal Logic, or Logique de Port-Royal, is the common name of La logique, ou l'art de penser, an important textbook on logic first published anonymously in 1662 by Antoine Arnauld and Pierre Nicole, two prominent members of the Jansenist movement, centered on Port-Royal.
In contemplating step by step and enumerating the conceptual extremes, a student progresses toward the ultimate.
Among his most notable works is the Aloka which superseded all previous commentaries on the Tattvachintamani.
The following are the titles of the works in the chronological order in which they are believed to have been composed.
Thus the act of taking something as real necessarily involves some degree of unconsciousness or lack of awareness.
Construction The device was a brass plate about four inches square which was mounted on a piece of mahogany which was three-quarters of an inch thick.
The other two concepts are pramātŗ, (Sanskrit: प्रमातृ, the subject, the knower) and prameya (Sanskrit: प्रमेयम्, the object, the knowable).
Aristotle's De Interpretatione: Semantics and Philosophy of Language with an extensive bibliography of recent studies on the Future Sea Battle Selected Bibliography on the Master Argument, Diodorus Chronus, Philo the Dialectician with a bibliography on Diodorus and the problem of future contingents
Logical structure For a better understanding of the liar paradox, it is useful to write it down in a more formal way.
Example The following Porphyrian tree consists of three columns of words; the middlemost (in boldface) contains the series of genera and species, and we can take it as analogous to the trunk of a tree.
I know it by standing here beside the Hao." According to these ancient Daoist stories, Zhuangzi and Hui Shi remained friendly rivals until death.
The Prior Analytics (Ancient Greek: Ἀναλυτικὰ Πρότερα; Latin: Analytica Priora) is a work by Aristotle on reasoning, known as syllogistic, composed around 350 BCE.
The red and the gray sliders represented the two affirmative propositions which were being combined.
The Categories (Latin: Categoriae) introduces Aristotle's 10-fold classification of that which exists: substance, quantity, quality, relation, place, time, situation, condition, action, and passion.
He later lived in the village of Karion, the same village that fellow philosopher, Udayana came from which is twelve miles southeast of the city of Darbhanga.
The Zuo Zhuan and Annals of Lü Buwei critically credit Deng with the authorship of a penal code, the earliest known statute in Chinese criminology entitled the "Bamboo Law".
In its Buddhist usage, the argument is one of a suite of arguments within the purview of Pramana and Indian logic to demonstrate and test various doctrines.
Four of his works have survived in Tibetan translation, and others have survived in Sanskrit manuscripts, most incomplete or fragmentary.
Description Nyayasara is an important treatise in the tradition of Nyaya school of Indian philosophy authored by the eminent Naiyayika Bhāsarvajña.
However, he adds the proviso that this process is aided by direct perception which helps avoid fallacies.
Nyayasara (Sanskrit: न्यायसार, Romanised: Nyāyasāra) is an ancient treatise in the Nyaya school of thought in the Indian philosophy.
His incorporation of logic into the Middle Way system was later critiqued by Candrakīrti, who felt that the establishment of the ultimate way of abiding since it was beyond thought and concept was not the domain of logic.
Trairūpya (Sanskrit; English: "the triple-character of inferential sign") is a conceptual tool of Buddhist logic.
His work in philosophy of logic focuses on the nature of logic, the role of logic in inquiry, the conceptual structure of logic, the metaphysical and epistemological presuppositions of logic, the nature of mathematical logic and the gaps between logical theory and mathematical practice.
http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01445340.2014.952947 "Deductions and Reductions Decoding Syllogistic Mnemonics" Entelekya Logico-Metaphysical Review 2 (1):5-39 (2018).
Modern work on Aristotle's logic builds on the tradition started in 1951 with the establishment by Jan Lukasiewicz of a revolutionary paradigm.
Abhava-pramana has been discussed in ancient Hindu texts in the context of Padārtha (पदार्थ, referent of a term).
Although not developed here, Venn diagrams are sometimes helpful when trying to understand the distribution of terms for the four forms.
Regardless, studies have been published examining how methods such as plyometrics, strength, or endurance training affect participants.
Whilst ECGs are done for many athletes in the USA, the standard of care is more likely to be an annual history & physical examination, with an ECG only performed if any item of concern with the clinical presentation.
In addition to the water belt, swimmers can wear ankle support, water gloves on their hands and water shoes on their feet.
In a 1998 paper in the Canadian Medical Association Journal McKenzie described how in February 1996 he started a dragon boat team for women with a history of breast cancer, which the women chose to name Abreast in a Boat.
Structure The location of the Academy is the Palm Meadows Radisson Hotel resort, which includes a world-class baseball facility.
Pyruvate is converted into acetyl-coenzyme A, which is the main input for a series of reactions known as the Krebs cycle (also known as the citric acid cycle or tricarboxylic acid cycle).
The subject gets a five-second countdown to the beginning of the test, during which time they pedal as fast as they can.
He now works as a PE Teacher at Chellaston Academy in Derby and is often co-commentator for Wolves matches on the official Wolverhampton Wanderers website and app alongside Mikey Burrows.
The limitations of front and back bending of the core is for example, contrasted by ergonomic construction to encourage good posture in modern weighted vests such as the x-vest, hyper vest or game-breakers pro suit.
It is used by hobbyists in lieu of rubber cement as an assembly adhesive for radio controlled models of cars and aircraft, repair of Lexan bodies, and as a waterproofing agent for model boats.
Human biomechanics helps analyze the body's movements, exploring how internal forces -- such as muscles, ligaments, and joints -- help create external movement.
Uses Aside from its major role in the functioning of living organisms, pyruvic acid is of interest as a reagent in the synthesis of specialized organic compounds as discussed above in the reactivity section.
Diagnosis To assess the knee, a clinician can perform the Patellar Aprehension Test by moving the patella back and forth while the people flexes the knee at approximately 30 degrees.
Drinking too much water before, during, or after extreme exercise (such as a marathon) can cause nausea, diarrhea, confusion, and muscle tremors.
In structure of federation the special body of FILA World Traditional Wrestling Committee has been based, Kylasov became one of founders of this committee and its member.
This research is trying to identify the cellular mechanisms that explain how exercise training and dietary choices during childhood and adolescence affects lifelong bone health.
In 1991, he was appointed as the notational analyst for the Welsh Rugby Union and attended the Rugby World Cup.
His views on matters related to training for endurance sports have been featured in such publications as VeloNews, Outside, Runner’s World, and The New York Times.
It takes advantage of the particular effectiveness of one training method to negate the shortcomings of another.
The noted ancient Greek physician Galen (131–201) wrote 87 detailed essays about improving health (proper nutrition), aerobic fitness, and strengthening muscles.
See also NTSU Arena List of universities in Taiwan References External links Media related to National Taiwan Sport University at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Athletic trainers treat a broad population, from the amateur and professional athlete to the typical patient in need of orthopaedic rehabilitative care.
Running economy has also been observed to decrease towards the end of races while core temperature, heart rate, ventilation, and lactic acid increase.
This paper identifies characteristics of cloud computing and discusses sport coaches' use of the 'Cloud'.
NTSU offers a variety of undergraduate and graduate programs, including bachelor's and master's degrees in fields such as sports science, physical education, leisure and recreation management, sports coaching, athletic training, and sports medicine.
He used his knowledge from being an active participant in the sport to author several technical manuals.
The interplay of exercise and music has long been discussed, crossing the disciplines of biomechanics, neurology, physiology, and sport psychology.
The effect is achieved through attaching weighted pieces to the body (or to other garments) which leave the hands free to grasp objects.
These muscle groups are activated by stimuli in infants for instincts such as grabbing for their mothers or breaking their falls.
Licensing and regulation Canada In Canada, kinesiology has been designated a regulated health profession in Ontario.
Increases in plasma anandamide levels are associated with psychoactive effects because anandamide is able to cross the blood–brain barrier and act within the central nervous system.
A 2016 meta-analysis concluded that physical exercise improves overall quality of life in individuals with depression relative to controls.
McGuinness is the son of former Manchester United player and manager Wilf McGuinness, and holds a degree in physical education from Loughborough University.
At that time (the early 1980s) there was an emerging interest in the United Kingdom in the analysis of performance in sport and physical education.
Sendai University (仙台大学, Sendai daigaku) is a private university in Shibata, Miyagi, Japan, established in 1967.
When the desired motion is accomplished, relaxation can be achieved quickly through numerous pathways.
Season of birth examines the influence of different prenatal and perinatal seasonal environmental factors like sunlight, temperature, or viral exposure during gestation, that relate to health outcomes.
A 2004 study by a research team from Australia, Israel and the United States found that in runners performing at a pace where they were at 90% of their peak oxygen uptake, music had no effect on their heart rate or running pace, regardless of the music's tempo.
A final test for het time trial capabilities before the World Championships was at the Chrono Champenois ITT.
A non-training elevation of 2,100–2,500 metres (6,900–8,200 ft) and training at 1,250 metres (4,100 ft) or less has shown to be the optimal approach for altitude training.
Some researchers have argued that prospective longitudinal studies, following subjects over time, are needed to completely understand the causes and progression of CTE.
Exercise-induced nausea is a feeling of sickness or vomiting which can occur shortly after exercise has stopped as well as during exercise itself.
People engaged in high-intensity exercise such as aerobics and bicycling have reported experiencing exercise-induced nausea.
During the test, subjects were asked to point at a scale from 6 to 20 reflecting their feeling of discomfort.
History Antoine Lavoisier noted in 1780 that heat production, in some cases, can be predicted from oxygen consumption, using multiple regression.
Paul McGuinness (born 2 March 1966) is an English former footballer who played as a midfielder in the Football League for Crewe Alexandra and Chester City.
In order to successfully care for the athletes, the NFLPS works closely with the Professional Football Athletic Trainers Society (PFATS), the National Football League (NFL), and the National Athletic Trainers Association (NATA).
DMHA has also been found as an adulterant in sports supplements and is sold online as a designer drug.
In an attempt to lower the number of helmet-to-helmet hits, which often leads to concussions and increases likelihood of brain injuries, the NFL changed its rules for helmet-to-helmet hits in the offseason of 2018.
SportVU provides statistics such as real-time player and ball positioning through software and statistical algorithms.
Hybrid athlete A hybrid athlete is an individual who possesses a balance of both strength and endurance.
Runners such as Tim Hutchings have suggested that super shoes have diluted the currency of world records, which should be considered in their historical contexts.
A biomechanist with the Sports Science Centre at Singapore Sports Institute, Hodierne is one of those to whom Joseph Schooling paid tribute for his 2016 Summer Olympics success, including the nutritionist Kirsty Fairbairn and high-performance manager Sonya Porter.
Since July 2025, Klentrou has been the Dean of the Faculty of Applied Health Sciences at Brock University[1] Klentrou served as president of the Canadian Society for Exercise Physiology from 2017 to 2019 after having served as treasurer of the Society for 10 years (2023–2013).
Academics The university offers bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees in a wide variety of sports-related disciplines.
Although left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is more common, right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH), as well as concurrent hypertrophy of both ventricles can also occur.
Three reviews indicate that marked improvements in prefrontal and hippocampal gray matter volume occur in healthy adults that regularly engage in medium intensity exercise for several months.
In other animals In most situations, described above, the increase in ventricular wall thickness is a slow process.
Previously a physical education teacher and national coaching director of the Rugby Football League, Larder was one of the first defence coaches in professional rugby union, and is considered a pioneer in applying rugby league expertise to the defensive side of rugby union.
ATP binds to the myosin head and causes the 'ratchetting' that results in contraction according to the sliding filament model.
While much of the research regarding the effects of altitude on the flight of baseballs is relative to more home runs, altitude has been shown to increase offense in all aspects which contact is made.
Relevant calculations Peak Power (PP) Ideally measured within the first 5 sec of the test, and is calculated by: P = F × d t {\displaystyle P={\tfrac {F\times d}{t}}} where t is time in seconds.
In recognition of the fact that humans are lifelong learners and also potentially engaged in lifelong physical activity, current definitions of sport pedagogy favor a broader view within a sport context.
The pumping action of the heart generates pulsatile blood flow, which is conducted into the arteries, across the micro-circulation and eventually, back via the venous system to the heart.
Nevertheless, he worked to create an adhesive with a pliable surface coating for shoe soles, whipping up his experimental blends in a spaghetti pot.
Friel coached Ryan Bolton, an Olympic athlete and the winner of the 2002 Ironman Triathlon at Lake Placid.
Ventricular hypertrophy may be divided into two categories: concentric hypertrophy and eccentric hypertrophy.
Repeating the Wingate test during training sessions can increase aerobic power and capacity, as well as maximal aerobic capacity.
For swimming, cross-training frequently includes running, stretching, and other resistance and agility training.
He was assistant coach to Mal Reilly on the 1988 Great Britain Lions tour, when the Lions won the third test in Sydney, their first test win over Australia since the second test of the 1978 Kangaroo Tour, and remained Great Britain's assistant coach until the end of 1994.
In 1972, to market his creation, Van Vliet started a business called Eclectic Products, with its manufacturing facilities in his home garage in Palos Verdes, California.
Roberts performed one of the first clinical assessments of traumatic encephalopathy in athletes in 1969.
As Canada's leading lifeguarding experts, LSS sets the standard for professional lifeguard training and certify Canada's National Lifeguards.
In Germany for instance, the publication of Ommo Grupe's influential book ‘Grundlagen der Sportpädagogik’ (Foundations of Sport Pedagogy) provided a key moment in defining the concepts and content of sport pedagogy as an academic subject.
It was the first Physiotherapy school in the world, training hundreds of medical gymnasts who spread the Swedish physical therapy around the entire world.
In Australia, the majority of sports science research from 1983 to 2003 was done in laboratories and nearly half of the research was done with sub-elite or elite athletes.
The Major League Baseball Australian Academy Program (MLBAAP) is a seven-week baseball development program held on the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia for prospective Australian baseball players and officials.
The Vassil Levski National Sports Academy (Bulgarian: Национална Спортна Академия "Васил Левски"), commonly referred to as the NSA, is Bulgaria's premiere higher education institution specializing in teaching physical education.
To achieve this end, sport pedagogy researchers should be encouraged to engage in inter-disciplinary work, in order to transcend the respective academic silos that sometimes exist between the distinct sub-disciplines in sport science.
The Budo Specialization Program curriculum focuses primarily on the advanced study of judō or kendō study, and secondarily on the study of Japanese culture and the Japanese language.
While Filbry was supported by two thirds of Bundesliga clubs, Keller won thanks to the votes of most 2.
Furthermore, research has provided a great deal of support for the role of BDNF in hippocampal neurogenesis, synaptic plasticity, and neural repair.
Like ephedrine, racephedrine is a releasing agent of norepinephrine and to a much lesser extent of dopamine.
The assumption was lactic acid had a "pickling" effect on muscles, inhibiting their ability to contract.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12970-020-00350-z Kouvelioti, R.; Kurgan, N.; Falk, B.; Ward, W.E.; Josse, A.R.; Klentrou, P.
As a player, McGuinness was a midfielder who made 20 Football League appearances with Crewe Alexandra and Chester City.
This is dependent on their personal experience with the activity and how physically fit the person is.
In sports, park effects are the unique factors of each stadium or arena that impact a game's outcome.
Similarly, in systemic hypertension, the left ventricle must work harder to overcome the higher pressures of the vascular system and responds by thickening to deal with increased wall stress.
This creates a lasting effect when running at lower temperatures in which a relatively lower core temperatures can be achieved.
Metaresearch aims to systematically evaluate and improve research practices by examining study design, statistical methods, reporting standards, and ethical considerations.
Skeletal and cardiac muscles are called striated muscle because of their striped appearance under a microscope, which is due to the highly organized alternating pattern of A bands and I bands.
Athletic training has been recognized by the American Medical Association (AMA) as an allied health care profession since 1990.
More longitudinal studies are needed, alongside more reliable ways to band individuals, as biological, psychological and social development doesn't progress in synchrony, creating different imbalances in the groups.
The interaction between the neuromuscular system and the muscles is of particular importance in understanding the related physiological processes.
The analyses of sport biomechanics also have been proven to increase injury prevention and advance injury prevention tactics.
In addition to martial arts training, the university also offer theoretical classes of various subjects and especially budō history.
The team physician for a sports team is the physician who is in charge of coordinating the medical staff and medical services for a sports team.
Studies of indirect calorimetry over the past 20 years have led to the characterization of the hypermetabolic stress response to injury and the design of nutritional regimens whose substrates are most efficiently assimilated in different disease processes and organ failure states.
When treated with phenethylamine, it gives tetrahydroisoquinoline by a sequential condensation/acylation process (Bischler–Napieralski reaction).
The test involves performing steady, submaximal exercise on a cycle ergometer at gradually increasing intensity (incremental exercise) while monitoring heart rate.
Citric acid cycle In the mitochondrion, pyruvate is oxidized by the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex to the acetyl group, which is fully oxidized to carbon dioxide by the citric acid cycle (also known as the Krebs cycle).
Rate of force development (RFD) relates to the amount of force that a person can generate over a period of time.
There are Bruce protocol tables available for maximal (competitive athletes) and sub-maximal (non-athletic people) efforts.
This favoring of whichever muscle returns the joint to equilibrium effectively increases the damping of the joint.
In 2019, the FDA issued nine warning letters to US manufacturers of dietary supplements containing DMHA as an unsafe food additive, deeming such products to be adulterated and illegal for marketing.
After the 4 week training period, the RSH group was able to complete 13 all out sprints before exhaustion and the RSN group only completed 9.
Both ephedrine enantiomers are active in this regard, but ephedrine ((1R,2S)-ephedrine) has greater potency than (1S,2R)-ephedrine.
In addition, team physicians provide the direction for the athletic directors to keep the athletes healthy and injury-free.
Hypoxia, or inadequate cellular oxygen supply, strongly upregulates VEGF expression and VEGF exerts a neuroprotective effect in hypoxic neurons.
He was a professor of anatomy, physiology and zoology at Rutgers University, the University of Illinois, University of Arkansas, U.C.L.A.
Growing in popularity, aquajogging offers a way of moving around in the water for those who, for one reason or another, are not suited to traditional swimming.
Sports cardiology can be roughly divided into two areas itself: Prevention of cardiac arrest and sudden cardiac death in exercising individuals, including those with no known heart disease.
Since 2023, all accredited professional programs have been required to provide a master's level education.
Modifications The Modified Bruce protocol starts at a lower workload than the standard test and is typically used for elderly or sedentary patients.
Effects in children Engaging in active physical pursuits has demonstrated positive effects on the mental health of children and adolescents, enhances their academic performance, boosts cognitive function, and diminishes the likelihood of obesity and cardiovascular diseases among this demographic.
Beta oxidation In the presence of air and various cofactors and enzymes, fatty acids are converted to acetyl-CoA.
The two sources for cytosolic Ca2+ in smooth muscle cells are the extracellular Ca2+ entering through calcium channels and the Ca2+ ions that are released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum.
Racephedrine has been used in a variety of combination drugs with other agents, including theophylline, aminophylline, oxtriphylline, phenobarbital, pentobarbital, pyrilamine, phenacetin, salicylamide, ascorbic acid, and opium, among others.
Cyclists use it to repair punctures by bonding vulcanised rubber patches to the punctured rubber inner tube.
Modern mixed martial-arts training generally involves cross-training in the different aspects and ranges of fighting.
He believes that "sponsor­ship dollars may be entirely responsible for the popularity of Kinesio Tape during televised events." Properties The product is a type of thin, elastic cotton tape that can stretch up to 140% of its original length.
VO2 or Watts or Time – The point at which there is a non‐linear increase in ventilation V‐Slope Method – Plot VO2 vs.
At high lung volume, breath holdings are performed with the lungs full of air (inhalation then breath hold).
For example, an ability to achieve a higher RFD will mean a person can jump higher than they would be able to do otherwise.
This conclusion is based on two meta-analyses: one of 10 studies with 300 children and the other of 15 studies and 668 participants, which showed that exercise yields no statistically significant reductions on ADHD symptoms.
Like BDNF and IGF-1, aerobic exercise has been shown to increase VEGF biosynthesis in peripheral tissue which subsequently crosses the blood–brain barrier and promotes neurogenesis and blood vessel formation in the central nervous system.
For healthy adults aged 18 to 65, the guidelines recommend moderate exercise for 30 minutes five days a week, or vigorous aerobic exercise for 20 minutes three days a week.
At that time Lyons formed a close working relationship with the head of the audio-visual department at the College, Mike Murnane, and was able to use some of the early domestic video cameras to record rugby union games for lapsed-time analysis.
It agreed to pay $1.75 million (equivalent to $2.2 million in 2024‍) to refund half the purchase price of the tape, representing the premium paid above traditional athletic tape.
Since retiring from playing, he has completed a sports science degree at Wolverhampton University and gained a UEFA B coaching licence.
C diploma The last stage of the Swim-ABC focuses on having a great condition and teaches children to safely orientate both underwater and above water in swimming pools and open water.
The model used assumes ANH used for a 70 kg patient with an estimated blood volume of 70 ml/kg (4900 ml).
He scored in the penalty shoot-out, although Albion lost to Chelsea, who went on to win the competition.
It had been thought that aspirin and related "blood thinner" drugs decreased the viscosity of blood, but instead studies found that they act by reducing the tendency of the blood to clot.
Although the Australian's had begun to dominate international rugby league since the mid-late 1970s, the ARL recognised that for the international game to grow, Britain needed to have a strong international presence.
It can cause cardiac arrest during athletic activity but also when doing other activities that raise heart rate.
Controversies in sports medicine Concussion in sport The management of concussion in sport has been extremely controversial over the past 20 years due to the discovery and reporting of Chronic traumatic encephalopathy as a disease that is common in ex-athletes, particularly footballers.
Some sports are based almost exclusively on the ability to jump, such as high jump in track and field, whereas in other sports the act of jumping is one of multiple athletic abilities used in the sport, such as basketball.
Triple jump, the objective is to leap horizontally as far as possible, in a series of three jumps Sports American football Association football ("soccer" in U.S.
In 2023, the company opened the Isokinetic Campus, a specialized training and cultural facility in Bologna.
For example, in athletes with significantly increased left ventricular weight there is also a corresponding increased risk for conduction abnormalities and sudden cardiac death.
Professor David Legg from Mount Royal University is the current president of the International Federation of Adapted Physical Activity (IFAPA) since 2019 at the International Symposium of Adapted Physical Activity (ISAPA) hosted by IFAPA Past President Martin Block at the University of Virginia.
Further examples include the calculation of park factors in Nippon Professional Baseball and prospective future calculations by FanGraphs in the Korea Baseball Organization.
Xiong Fei, professional footballer, after being kicked in the head by Shanghai Shenhua FC teammate Li Jianbin, October 17, 2015.
Symptoms can include: Pain locally at the pulley (usually sharp), may feel/hear a 'pop' or 'crack', swelling and possible bruising, pain when squeezing or climbing, pain when extending your finger, pain with resisted flexion of the finger.
To demonstrate the application of the technology, a number of healthcare exemplars have been selected.
The drug was previously approved for use by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as an inhalant (i.e., Vaporpac and Tickle Tackle Inhaler) and in Germany as an oral medication as part of a multi-component medication (i.e., Ambredin and Ordinal), but is no longer available.
Bruce's first reports on treadmill exercise tests, published in 1949, analyzed minute-by-minute changes in respiratory and circulatory function of normal adults and patients with heart or lung disease.
The same article concluded: "KT had some substantial effects on muscle activity, but it was unclear whether these changes were beneficial or harmful.
Afterward, the scientists asked the volunteers to rate the tolerability or unpleasantness of the session, on a scale from 1 to 20.
Players are split into four teams (Roos, Wombats, Koalas and Dingos) and the program is set up very much like professional rookie leagues in North America.
The LVN is located near the connection between the brain and the brain stem, which suggests that excessive force to the head may stretch this connection and thus activate the LVN.
Some super shoes are designed to be worn during only a single marathon race after a minimal breaking-in time and have drawn criticism for their environmental impact.
Tonic posturing preceding convulsion has been observed in sports injuries at the moment of impact where extension and flexion of opposite arms occur despite body position or gravity.
Due to the stadium's extremely high altitude, the Estadio Hernando Siles was, at one point, facing a ban by FIFA attributed to an unfair advantage, but the ban was revoked after about a year.
The seven-week program consists of at least one match a day against each other and other touring teams, with a break on Sunday, giving players and officials plenty of match practice.
The club had been facing insolvency at the time of Keller's appointment but was debt-free when he departed.
Seminar IBU hosts the International Seminar of Budo Culture (国際武道文化セミナー, Kokusai Budō Bunka Seminā) annually in March.
He has also been active in business as the founder of TrainingPeaks, a web-based software company, and TrainingBible Coaching.
The test lasts just few minutes and consists of making a patient lie down relaxed on a bed or on a comfortable couch, with the head under a transparent hood connected to a pump, which applies an adjustable ventilation through it.
A greater level of PCr resynthesis augments the muscles power production during the initial stages of high-intensity exercise.
Sports medicine may be called Sport and Exercise Medicine (SEM), which is now well established in many countries.
Autologous conditioned serum, also known as Orthokine and Regenokine, is an experimental procedure in which a person's own blood is extracted, manipulated, and then reintroduced with claimed benefit in osteoarthritis.
The company was named after the isokinetic machine, a medical device utilized to measure dynamic muscle strength.
Survivors of breast cancer come together to paddle dragon boats to the benefit of their physical health and social wellbeing.
Career Hodierne is a member of the High Performance Advisory Committee to South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (SASCOC).
He also spent time with Manchester United (where he progressed through the youth ranks) and Bury without appearing in league games for them.
Football The NFL Physicians Society (NFLPS) was founded in 1966; the organization provides medical and surgical care for athletes in the National Football League.
Omalu's participation was halted during the autopsy after Seau's son Tyler Seau, under pressure from the NFL, revoked previously provided oral permission.
Drugs in sport Doping in sport has a long history with doctors in the sports medicine world being both heroes and villains on different occasions.
Academics NTSU has four colleges: Notable alumni Chen Kuei-ru, athlete Transportation The university is accessible within walking distance south of National Taiwan Sport University Station of Taoyuan Metro.
The inflammatory cells and cytokines stimulate the pain receptors that cause the acute pain associated with AMS.
Neural fatigue Nerves are responsible for controlling the contraction of muscles, determining the number, sequence and force of muscular contraction.
School change its English name to National Taiwan University of Sport in August 2014, and closed Chiayi Campus after a year.
Effects of post exercise protein supplementation on markers of bone turnover in adolescent swimmers.
The highest rates of patellar dislocation were found in the youngest age groups, while the rates declined with increasing ages.
The feeling of soreness can also be attributed to the lack of contraction from the muscle, which can lead to overexertion of the muscle.
Respiratory indirect calorimetry (IC) is a noninvasive and highly accurate method of metabolic rate, which has an error of less than 1%.
History The Connected Scarf is a collaboration between English Premier League side Manchester City and American technology conglomerate Cisco.
Paddlers for Life Scotland South West was formed in March 2010 and is based on Loch Ken, Dumfries and Galloway.It is a registered charity.
Good venues for live-high train-low include Mammoth Lakes, California; Flagstaff, Arizona; and the Sierra Nevada, near Granada in Spain.
The NBA uses statistics collected by SportVU on NBA.com and NBATV as well as in arenas across the country to provide information for the audience.
In most cases, aquajogging is more suitable than swimming for people suffering from neck and shoulder tension, as many do not know the correct swimming techniques.
To gain this energy, more initial energy must be expended in hip flexion (and possibly knee extension) to raise the foot from the ground.
Academic staff from several Gold Coast state schools and the Gold Coast Institute of TAFE assist with tutoring and supporting the athletes, to ensure their educational requirements are achieved.
Malcolm Gladwell's book Outliers: The Story of Success and the book SuperFreakonomics by Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner, popularised the issue in respect of Canadian ice-hockey players, European football players, and US Major League baseball players.
History Autologous conditioned serum is a patented method developed by molecular biologist Julio Reinecke and Peter Wehling, a spinal surgeon in Düsseldorf, Germany.
Rabbit show jumping Fox hunting, in which horses and fox hounds jump over fences and other obstacles.
Highway IBU is accessible by highway via: Japan National Route 128 Japan National Route 297 References External links International Budō University, Official website (in Japanese) International Seminar of Budo Culture
The method may increase muscle mass or lose weight; however, there have been concerns about the safety of some uses of weights, such as wrist and ankle weights.
Other technologies that can be used in a physical education setting include video projectors and GPS systems.
As the adviser of the IMSA President Kylasov has offered a method of integrative association of mind sports, it has proved need of such scientific approach interpersonal and transpersonal social behavior of players of logic games and aspects of conscious and unconscious acts of their interaction.
Studies have shown that creatine usage does not necessarily affect total body water relative to muscle mass in the long-term.
Elbow injuries Tennis elbow (Lateral Epicondylitis) is a common elbow injury among climbers, as is Golfer's elbow (Medial Epicondylitis, which is similar, but occurs on the inside of the elbow).
The Sport Sciences Research Institute of Iran (SSRI) is the only national organization in charge of scientific research in the field of Physical Education and Sport Sciences.
Process The process removes about 2 US fluid ounces (59 ml) of blood from a patient's arm, which is then incubated at a slightly raised temperature.
If insufficient oxygen is available, the acid is broken down anaerobically, creating lactate in animals and ethanol in plants and microorganisms (and in carp).
In the legs, an increased weight in the feet relates to running economy since they are located most distally from the hips, slightly smaller than average feet are ideal for optimizing running economy.
Since the RMR of a person depends mainly on lean body mass (and not total weight) and other physiological factors such as health status and age, actual RMR (and thus 1-MET energy equivalents) may vary significantly from the kcal/(kg·h) rule of thumb.
The Fort consisted of a stockade 90 feet (27 m) square, with two blockhouses at opposite corners, each 20 feet (6.1 m) square.
Congressional reports found fault with Jackson's handling of the trial and execution of Arbuthnot and Ambrister, but Congress chose not to censure the popular general.
The fort was abandoned at the end of the Indian Wars.” References External links 2nd Seminole War Fort Diagram (Ft.
Protection along the U.S.–Florida border proved to still be necessary, even though the War of 1812 was over; raids were regularly launched into Georgia from Spanish Florida by Red Sticks, other Seminoles, and maroons (escaped slaves).
Those Maroons who had been present at Prospect Bluff, especially the discharged Colonial Marines, considered themselves free British subjects, and had been promised protection within British territory like the Bahamas by Nicolls.
The area includes the Riverbend Regional Park Historic District with Indian middens and a preserved battlefield from the Seminole War at the Loxahatchee River Battlefield Park adjacent to Riverbend.
North of this hummock, across what was originally open sawgrass, is a wooded area where Colonel Zachary Taylor made camp prior to the battle.
This was a great economic blow to the slave owners (slaves were expensive), and an ideological affront as well, leaving them insecure and angry.
Worth ordered his men out on "search and destroy" missions during the summer and drove the Seminoles out of much of northern Florida.
Carr and his Archaeological and Historical Conservancy (AHC) confirmed the location of the battlefield as well as numerous Seminole and pre-Seminole archaeological sites in Riverbend Park.
They were passing through a high hammock with oaks, pines, cabbage palms, and saw palmetto when a single shot rang out.
Education Clay County School District The Clay County School District holds pre-school to grade nine, and consists of one elementary school, one middle school, and one ninth-grade education building.
Outnumbered 4 to 1, with muskets against rifles, they held off the onslaught for a few crucial minutes before diving into the river themselves.
At the close of the war he went with some other Confederate soldiers to Mexico, "vowing never to return to the conquered South until she was free".
Meanwhile, the Americans were building boats on the Chattahoochee and gathering additional troops with which to destroy the British forts on the Apalachicola as well as the Red Stick villages.
She continued this duty supporting operations of the "Mosquito Fleet" through the general pacification of the Seminoles in August 1842.
Congress asking to annex the "District of Elotchaway [Alachua] in the Republic of East Florida" (much larger than the current county) as a territory to the U.S.
The government waited less than ten years before forcing the Treaty of Payne's Landing on the Native Americans in Florida, requiring them to move west of the Mississippi River.
"Don Jorge Clarke", his mixed-race common-law wife Flora Leslie and four children 7 to 15 years old are mentioned in an entry of the census taken at Fernandina in 1814.
The other residents of the New River area and of the Biscayne Bay country to the south fled to Key West.
Others from the Florida unit remained in settlements around the Fort which had become a symbol of slave insurrection.
Blake had successfully removed the Cherokee from Georgia and was presumed capable of the task of removing the Seminole.
Though it was named for General Edmund Pendleton Gaines, he did not arrive there with the 4th Infantry of the United States Army until 1816.
Much of the land is now agricultural, but portions of the battlefield have been developed, and it has been impacted by road construction.
Cultural references Riverbend Park is mentioned in the 2012 novel Torn by Leslie Ann Joy, who grew up in Jupiter Farms.
The archaeology report by Uzi Baram is on file with the Florida Division of Historical Resources of the Florida Department of State.
The Seminoles made at least two attempts to capture the howitzer, but were driven off after an hour-and-a-half.
Besides the supplies, the boat carried 20 sick soldiers, seven women, four children, and a guard of 20 armed soldiers.
In 1978, the Coast Guard restored the lighthouse to active service, one hundred years after it was decommissioned.
"Lower" Creeks were relatively accommodating of the whites, especially Indian agent Benjamin Hawkins, and began to adapt the sedentary, farming lifestyle that he recommended.
Education The first school in Fort McCoy was supposedly a log cabin that was built near the fort; and it is thought to have been abandoned during the Second Seminole War.
Francis, as well as the informal leader of the Red Sticks, was the most articulate Native American at the meeting.
Distant Drums is a 1951 American Florida Western film directed by Raoul Walsh and starring Gary Cooper.
At one time it was incorrectly identified as having taken place in modern Jonathan Dickinson State Park, with a marker placed there accordingly.
According to the Köppen climate classification, the Town of Fort White has a humid subtropical climate zone (Cfa).
After a bloody massacre and scalping, only seven survived, one woman, and six soldiers who escaped by jumping into the river and swimming to the opposite shore, where friendly Creeks helped them reach safety at Camp Crawford on December 2, 1817.
It is the location of the Kempfer Cattle ranch, Deseret Ranches of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the Deer Park Forestry Site of the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services.
The recoil of the cannon broke them loose from the barges, sending them into the water, and the sailors had to retreat.
Five of the most important of the Seminole chiefs, including Micanopy of the Alachua Seminoles, had not agreed to the move.
It is situated northeast of Ocala and lies between the towns of Sparr and Eureka on County Road 316 and is directly north of Silver Springs on County Road 315.
The next day, in order to secure his release, Osceola agreed to abide by the Treaty of Payne's Landing and to bring his followers in.
The battle convinced Jesup that defeating the Seminole Indians was impossible, and he later wrote a letter to Secretary of War Joel Poinsett requesting that the U.S.
The Jackson, named for Andrew Jackson, the seventh President of the United States, who was president at the time that the ship was commissioned.
History The regiment's commanding officer was Major Benjamin Putnam and companies were commanded by Lt.
To compensate, white-run trading stores were permitted on the reservation's outskirts to the north and west, letting the Indians obtain supplies and luxuries unavailable within the reservation.
The park is also the site of an ancient burial mound of the Ais Indian tribe which extended from Cape Canaveral to the Saint Lucie inlet.
Colonel Taylor’s detachment suffered 26 killed and 112 wounded and had to retreat back to Fort Basinger.
Until a treaty was signed establishing a reservation, the Indians were not sure of where they could plant crops and expect to be able to harvest them, and they had to contend with white squatters moving into land they occupied.
Seminole is a 1953 American Western film directed by Budd Boetticher and starring Rock Hudson, Barbara Hale, Anthony Quinn and Richard Carlson.
Early churches It is reported that in Florida State Gazetteer of 1886-1887 that Fort Braden had one Methodist church and one Baptist church.
Sovereignty over the land between the Flint River and today's border with Florida was an issue; the battle of nearby Fowltown, November 21–23, 1817, had been over this question.
Riverbend Park is a 680-acre (280 ha) park in the Jupiter Farms section of Jupiter, in Palm Beach County, Florida.
Army encampment on the north shore of the Caloosahatchee was fifteen miles from the mouth of river and constructed about 400 yards from the trading post which was left unguarded at the time of the battle.
Congress passed the Armed Occupation Act, which allowed settlers to homestead in the Florida Territory.
Seminole Indians began later that month attacking plantations throughout New Smryna, Florida and the rest of Mosquito County.
In 2000, the median income for a household in the town was $26,250, and the median income for a family was $28,000.
Some officers, including Captain Abner Doubleday, observed that the Seminoles easily avoided the Army patrols.
According to The Floridian newspaper of 1840, in Fort Gaines were the Chattahoochee Female College and the Independent College for Young Men, boarding schools (not colleges, as that word is traditionally used today).
Service history The first ship to be so named by the Navy, Poinsett, a sidewheel gunboat, was transferred from the War Department to the Navy Department in 1840 for service in the 2nd Seminole War.
At the battle of Chapultepec he earned the sobriquet of "the Fighting Doctor," as on two occasions led a charge of cavalry after the officer commanding had been killed or wounded.
Scott was killed by having splinters of fatwood driven into his body and set afire, "an excruciating form of execution that had its roots deep in the ancient traditions of the Creek Indians".
Bell, provisional secretary of the Florida territory and temporary agent to the Seminoles, prepared an estimate of the number of Indians in Florida.
And Raoul Walsh, who directed, did so in precisely the same way that he has been directing such pictures for a matter of some twenty-five years.
Due to its location near a swamp, a breeding site for mosquitos, many of those stationed at the fort contracted and died of malaria.
Demographics 2010 and 2020 census As of the 2020 United States census, there were 618 people, 214 households, and 164 families residing in the town.
Memoranda of a residence at the court of London comprising incidents official and personal from 1819-1825, including negotiations on the Oregon question, and other unsettled questions between the United States and Great Britain, Philadelphia : Lea & Blanchard.
The character of Major Harlan Degan is based on the real life General Thomas Jesup who eventually had to resign in disgrace over the incident.
On December 21, 1835 the Mosquito Roarers, along with other companies, arrived at an outpost on the Tomoka River named Rosetta (named for the Rosetta Plantation owned by John Moultrie).
Fort Taylor Fort Taylor, named after Army General and future President of the United States Zachary Taylor was located in Deer Park.
Black Seminoles were not recognized legally as part of the tribe, nor was their ownership or occupancy of land separately recognized.
Additionally, many Maroons and Black Seminoles displaced from Angola and communities like it by the Second Seminole War stayed in Florida and fought alongside the Seminole Indians, and were deported in kind to Indian territories in Oklahoma.
The town of Newnansville, Florida had grown up along the Bellamy Road near the natural bridge over the Santa Fe River.
Isaac Mayo, she was employed against the Seminoles until August 1842 when a large percentage of the tribe was relocated in the west.
The Indian Removal Act of 1830 allowed the government to do whatever was necessary to remove Native Americans from east of the Mississippi.
In his report of September 1, Clarke related the departure of MacGregor and submitted a plan for the disposition of Spanish troops to attack the enemy forces still remaining in Fernandina.
A small number of the surviving Red Sticks (see Peter McQueen) joined other Lower Creeks refugees and formed a community called Minatti at the headwaters of the Peace River near Lake Hancock.
It was one of the military outposts created during the Second Seminole War to assist Colonel Zachary Taylor's troops to confront and capture Seminole Indians and their allies in the central part of the Florida Territory in the Lake Okeechobee region.
The magazine area of the fort was located about 500 feet from the river bank, and consisted of an octagonal blockhouse holding the principal magazine.
There they organized under Bowlegs' chief black advisor Nero, built sturdy log cabins with fenced in gardens, and resumed drilling vigorously under a self-selected corps of officers, determined to have their revenge and defend their freedom once and for all against all comers.
In March, Jackson set out, constructed a new fort at Prospect Bluff and pillaged several Seminole towns on the way to St.
Samuel Humphreys designed these cutters for roles as diverse as fighting pirates, privateers, combating smugglers and operating with naval forces.
Indian Key Historic State Park is an island within the Florida State Park system, located just a few hundred yards southeast of U.S.
George Payne, who been working at the trading post, became the manager with full control in June, and stopped issuing whiskey to the Seminoles.
Noland as her commanding officer and sailed to the coast of Florida for operations against the Seminoles in the Second Seminole War.
Ambrister threw himself on the mercy of the court, while Arbuthnot maintained his innocence, saying that he had only been engaged in legal trade.
The Red Stick village at today's Tallahassee was burned and two Native American prisoners were captured there on 31 March, and the town of Miccosukee was taken the next day.
Clinch at Fort Scott, 1816–1818 The Red Sticks, newly supplied with arms and ammunition from the abandoned Negro Fort, felt that "widespread combat" was about to break out.
It is frequently visited by tourists and is the subject of an archaeological project to uncover the historic building foundations.
Chapelle also states that as of the time of his book's publication in 1949, a model of Wave resided in the New York Yacht Club's model room.
Excluded Freedmen argue that the Dawes Rolls were inaccurate and often classified persons with both Seminole and African ancestry as only Freedmen.
The second USS Phoenix was a schooner which served in the United States Navy from 1841 to 1853, seeing service in the Second Seminole War and the Mexican War.
See also Old Fort Braden School References Fort Braden School Florida State Library Collection in Tallahassee, Call No.
It is located on private property, owned currently by the Herold Family Trust, but was also owned in 1999 by the Herold Family that farmed the land, and later planted it as a tree farm, which is the current state of the property.
In some cases, a portion of that Florida land is still owned by the Seminole and Black Seminole descendants in Florida.
2nd – The United States will guarantee to the Creek nation, the integrity of all their territory eastwardly and northwardly of the said line to be run and described as mentioned in the first article.
Green Hill Chaires along with brothers Benjamin Chaires of Vendura Plantation and Thomas Peter of Woodlawn Plantation moved to Leon County establishing very large plantations.
By 1707, settlers based in Carolina and their Yamasee Indian allies had killed, carried off, or driven away most of the remaining native inhabitants during a series of raids across the Florida panhandle and down the full length of the peninsula.
The remaining Seminole, Mikasuki and Creek leaders in central and south Florida such as Billy Bowlegs (Holata Micco), Abiaka (Sam Jones) and Chipco were leery of their new neighbors.
In response came an attack on Fort Mims (1813), led by William Weatherford and Peter McQueen (Neamathla was not present), in which the Red Sticks killed over 250 men, women, and children.
Sometime between the 1890s and the first decade of the 1900s, a wooden building was built to serve as the school.
1770s – January 17, 1837) was a Black Seminole lieutenant and interpreter to Ee-mat-la, hereditary chief of the St.
The Battle of Lake Okeechobee and the Battles of the Loxahatchee were all part of a broader offensive into Southern Florida that was planned by General Thomas Jesup.
In September 1836, reports reached Newnansville that up to 150 Seminoles had gathered at Colonel Francis Sanchez's plantation in San Felasco Hammock, 4 miles (6.4 km) south of Newnansville, and were rounding up cattle and moving them south to Hogtown prairie.
Per Stenberg, Jackson says as much in letters of June 1818 to James Monroe and August 1818 to Secretary of State John C.
(1500–1750) It is not uncommon to find Spanish relics mixed with Indian potsherds in the river at that location.
The unsightly and unsanitary condition of Fernandina disturbed Governor White, and on May 10, 1811, two days after Clarke's appointment as surveyor general, he instructed him to plat the town so that the streets were properly aligned and the lots were uniform.
Post-war decommissioning and sale After the Civil War fighting ended, Jackson was sold in Baltimore in October 1865.
In order to calm these settlers, Secretary of War Joel Poinsett wrote a letter in which he stated that the Macomb Treaty was only supposed to be a temporary peace agreement, and that the U.S.
Gaines to put the 4th Infantry at Fort Scott to prevent White squatters from entering Muscogee and Seminole land.
However, shortly after a ceasefire was declared, "Osceola and two other Indians came under a flag of truce to the army camp.
Hopkins created settlements in Deer Park to house workers for his saw and planing mill at the Union Cypress Company he founded in Hopkins, Florida.
Town The town of Muspa was probably on or near Marco Island, at the north end of the Ten Thousand Islands.
The town itself decreased in size after the Union Cypress Company Railroad shut down in the early 1930s.
General Twiggs by the end of November 1849 had completed or reopened Fort Hamer, Fort Crawford (between Ft.
Some were held as slaves, particularly of Seminole leaders, but the Black Seminole had more freedom than did slaves held by whites in the South and by other Native American tribes, including the right to bear arms.
The Regent refused to see Francis, sent him home (not without his meeting a number of prominent Englishmen), and chastised Nicolls.
Zachary Taylor had Fort Basinger built in 1837, during the Seminole Wars, on the Kissimmee River 17 miles above its mouth.
On November 21, 1978, it was added to the United States National Register of Historic Places, under the title of Payne's Creek Massacre-Fort Chokonikla Site (also known as "site of Chokonikla blockhouse and bridge" or "Military cemetery").
The draft treaty is among the papers passed on from the War Office to The National Archives (United Kingdom).
Augustine on the night of January 17, 1837, along with the young "free Negro" Joe Merritt, son of Stephen Merritt, and another man, unidentified, in a counterattack following a failed horse-stealing raid closer to St.
Jackson's actions, while ultimately defended by the executive branch, including President Monroe and Secretary of State John Quincy Adams, were clearly both illegal and insubordinate.
The soldiers' mission is to destroy an old Spanish fort being used as a base for Spanish gunrunners aiding the Seminoles, and they convince the reluctant Wyatt to lead the small strike force as Taylor had requested.
Although the terrain he was now in, pines and palmettos, could not have concealed anyone who was riding horseback or marching, it could and did conceal crouched (or prone) warriors waiting in ambush.
Discharged from the military in Nassau in 1815, Ambrister returned to Spanish Florida in 1817 with fellow Royal Marine veteran George Woodbine and Scottish soldier of fortune Gregor MacGregor.
Captain Monroe was also charged with finishing the construction of the blockhouses and stockades around Fort Basinger.
From 1846 to 1850, she served in the Gulf of Mexico conducting hydrographic surveys and providing general support to U.S.
The boundaries were well inland from both coasts, to prevent contact with Spanish and British traders from Cuba and the Bahamas.
Then assigned to survey activities, Poinsett remained in the waters off Florida, primarily in the Tampa area, until returned to the War Department in 1845 References This article incorporates text from the public domain Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships.
A traditional Junkanoo Street parade with music showcased a history of cultural exchange between the Seminoles and Black communities.
The second (1814–1816) was in Spanish Florida, on the west bank of the Chattahoochee River, across from Tocktoethla ("River Junction"), in modern Jackson County, Florida.
Army troops were part of the 2nd Cavalry Regiment and under the command of Lieutenant Colonel William Harney.
Later, though, when Osceola was causing trouble, Thompson had him locked up at Fort King for a night.
External links History of Indian Key Indian Key Historic State Park at Florida State Parks Indian Key State Historic Site Archived August 8, 2008, at the Wayback Machine at Absolutely Florida Indian Key State Historic Site at Wildernet Indian Key - Florida Ghost Town
However, after the Scott Massacre of November 30, and the impossibility of resupplying the fort given the siege that began at the Battle of Ocheesee on December 15, Arbuckle ordered Fort Hughes evacuated and abandoned on December 18, 1817.
This store was attacked and looted by the adventurer William Augustus Bowles in 1792 and again in 1800, at which point it ceased operations.
In January 1814, a group of soldier-settlers erected a two-story blockhouse and dubbed it Fort Mitchell, after the Governor of Georgia, David Mitchell.
As a result, the landmarked area was decreased to above 440 acres (180 ha), most of which overlapped parts of the original designation.
This was the location of the Battle of Fowltown, a symbolically important but militarily very minor encounter.
The first outpost to be attacked during this period, called “The Crisis of 1849,” was at the Indian River settlement north of Fort Pierce, on the east coast of Florida.
It was named for the only American killed at the Battle of Fowltown, the young fifer Aaron Hughes, whose grave, while unlocated, is believed to be somewhere at the site.
Army raids, during which Neamathla was supposed to be captured and flogged, was that Black Seminoles came from some distance away to assist the Red Sticks.
soldiers forced the Mikasuki to retreat into the surrounding swamp, abandon this land, and reestablish themselves further south.
The park also has a ditch that connects two ponds, Center Pond, located south of Bushnell, and Webb's Pond (called the "Death Pond" in records related to the battle), a pond located on private property adjacent to the park.
In that campaign, she cruised the Florida coast in support of United States Army operations until 1840.
Fort Michell, located in today's Alachua County, was the capital of the short-lived Republic of East Florida during the Patriot War of 1814.
Moreover, Lowndes argued, Monroe's role as civilian commander-in-chief had been reiterated when Monroe ordered the return of the forts to the Spanish after the fact.
This site once had a natural spring which made it a popular location for the Ais Indians and later for Spanish sailors who would stop here occasionally to refill their water jars before making the transatlantic crossing back to Spain.
Government secretly intended for the peace treaty to only be temporary, and they came to regard the Macomb Treaty as fraudulent.
(There is disagreement about just when the First Seminole War began; it was not recognized as a war until much later.) Fort Scott abandoned and then rebuilt (1816–1817) In 1816, Georgia Governor David B.
Arbuthnot and Ambrister were tried and executed in what is modern-day Wakulla County, Florida, at Fort Saint Marks.
The Ichetucknee River Locals have long known of and enjoyed the crystal clear Ichetucknee River and springs, 4 miles (6 km) northwest of the town.
Also, David Brydie Mitchell, former governor of Georgia and Creek Indian agent at the time, stated in a report to Congress that this attack on Fowltown was the start of the First Seminole War.
Drums of Destiny is a 1937 American Western film directed by Ray Taylor and starring Tom Keene, Edna Lawrence and Budd Buster.
Army in Florida with the purpose of being a main supply depot for the army during the Second Seminole War.
degree from the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia (where his parents had lived before moving to South Carolina) in 1836.
The island was home to the town of Indian Key, Florida, in the middle of the 19th century but is now an uninhabited ghost town.
After the murder, the Indians blazed a tree where they painted a figure of an Indian under which they made 21 marks indicative of their number.
About 425 Native Americans attended the meeting, choosing Neamathla, a prominent Mikasuki chief, to be their chief representative.
References This article incorporates text from the public domain Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships.
8th – A permanent peace shall ensue from the date of these presents forever, between the Creek nation and the United States, and between the Creek nation and the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and Choctaw nations.
Plot At Fort King, Florida, in 1835, Lieutenant Lance Caldwell is charged with the murder of a sentry.
During the 1920s, Koonce sculpted statues of the soldiers and Seminoles involved in the battle, ordered a bronze statue to portray Dade, built the gazebo, and constructed the monuments indicating where the officers fell.
The Battle of San Felasco Hammock took place during the Second Seminole War, fought by Florida's Seminole Indians to prevent their removal to the Arkansas Territory in accordance with the Indian Removal Act of 1830.
The next day they were pursued by a party of 23 men under Captain J.R, Smith, but to no purpose.” The soldiers, Sergeant William Ziegler and Corporal Daniel Sweatman were initially interred in Cow Creek hammock community near Fort White.
The two sides exchanged cannon fire for a couple of days, and then the Spanish surrendered Fort Barrancas on 28 May.
On New Years eve of 1835, the Mosquito Roarers were present and took part in the Battle of Ouithlacoochie along the Withlacoochee River in present-day Citrus County, one of the first major battles of the Second Seminole War.
Spanish Florida had been a slave refuge until President Andrew Jackson, a strong supporter of slavery, invaded in 1818.
It sometimes confused with the 1937 film Old Louisiana also made by Crescent and starring Keene, which was originally known by this title.
General Andrew Jackson stopped at Fort Early in February 1818 as he marched south to relieve besieged Fort Scott.
Notes References This article incorporates text from the public domain Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships.
People living in the area of Charlotte Harbor in the 18th century and early 19th century were called "Muspa", and believed they were remnants of the Calusa.
The park includes 10 miles of hiking/biking trails, 7 miles of equestrian trails and 5 miles of canoeing/kayaking trails and includes a section of the Loxahatchee River, a National Wild and Scenic River.
Fort White is a town in Columbia County, Florida, United States, named after a military fort built in the 1830s.
The site has been located on the property of rancher Dale Herring, and as recently as 2016 archeological investigations were being made and artifacts uncovered.
Details The treaty signing took place on the banks of the Tallapoosa River near the present city of Alexander City, Alabama.
Bowlegs Town refers to a Native American settlement on the Suwannee River near present-day Old Town, Fl.
S.] Done at fort Jackson, in presence of – Charles Cassedy, acting secretary Benjamin Hawkins, agent for Indian affairs Return J.
Around 1300, pottery and artifact styles on Marco Island changed to become very similar to those of the Caloosahatchee culture, practiced by the Calusa people to the north, indicating a close alliance with or absorption by the Calusa.
4th – The United States demand an acknowledgment of the right to establish military posts and trading houses, and to open roads within the territory, guaranteed to the Creek nation by the second article, and a right to the free navigation of all its waters.
Unless, of course, as he later realized when re-reading it, it didn't." As for Monroe's conduct, Feller holds deems him culpable: "Monroe did not give the tipoff, but neither did he rebuke Jackson or relieve him on the spot.
The lighthouse was featured in the third TV season of Burn Notice, in episode 14 entitled, "Partners in Crime" (first aired February 18, 2010).
The US Coast Guard decided to build a screw-pile lighthouse on Fowey Rocks, seven miles (11 km) southeast of Cape Florida.
He, however, having heard from his negroes, that large numbers of Indians were about, refused to go, and in the afternoon crossed the river to Col.
The position of the name on the lists implies that Muspa was somewhere on the southwest coast of Florida between the Calusa capitol, believed to have been Mound Key, and Cape Sable.
To generate interest in the park, members of the Dade Battlefield Society organized events such as a bluegrass festival and an arts and crafts show.
The lowest point is a dug-out 0.6-acre pit that has been historically used as a vegetation burn pit.
Swanton writes that the Calusa, and by extension the Muspa, disappear from history, although he believes some may have merged in the Seminole or emigrated to Cuba.
The government was supposed to distribute $6000 worth of farm implements, cattle and hogs to the Seminoles, compensate them for travel and losses involved in relocating to the reservation, and provide rations for a year, until the Seminoles could plant and harvest new crops.
Some of the men at Fort Mitchell who signed the petition to Congress settled again in the Alachua Country after Florida was transferred to the United States in 1821.
History The present town of Fort Gaines was founded in 1816 as protection against the indigenous Creeks and prospered due to riverboat trade.
Lucie County listings, Florida's Office of Cultural and Historical Programs Ais Indians Archived 2007-03-11 at the Wayback Machine Old Fort Park 360 tour
After 1840, Wave served as a surveying vessel along the United States East Coast under the command of Lieutenant John R.
The original brick building became the Fort McCoy Public Library in 1996, after a $60,000 renovation.
2000 census At the 2000 census, there were 1,110 people, 429 households and 287 families residing in the city.
After the East Florida revolution of 1812, Fernandina was occupied by US troops and the Spanish citizenry fled; some, including Clarke, suffered damage to their homes and businesses in their absence.
In 1817, during the First Seminole War, Fort Hughes was built on the south side of the Flint River in what is today Bainbridge, Georgia.
Green Hill Chaires' first plantation started large and eventually grew to 20,000 acres (80 km2) and had a large home on Lake Lafayette.
The islanders had six cannons and their own small militia company for their defense, and the Navy had established a base on nearby Tea Table Key.
A volunteer group sponsors annual reenactments of the Battle of Lake Okeechobee as a fundraising activity for the park.
This fort was built in 1837 during the Second Seminole Wars (not to be confused with Fort Zachary Taylor in Key West, Florida).
Another method was to put a layer of flour or a piece of white tissue paper on a pan in the oven for five minutes.
Most establishments serve pom, and often also “broodje pom” (pom on a bread roll), a derivation of the national dish.
Huff paste can be moulded into a variety of shapes, called coffyns or coffers, similar to a Cornish pasty.
Arrowhead Mills is an American brand of grain-based foods, including organic baking mixes, flours, beans, seeds and breakfast cereals.
Depending on context, the term may refer either to the dough itself or to finished desserts made from it.
Teams are evaluated by international judging committees on the basis of individual excellence in artisan baking, as well as on teamwork and time management.
References External links Coupe du Monde de la Boulangerie Website Archived 2019-09-22 at the Wayback Machine
The yu-dane method was then modified by Taiwanese pastry chef Yvonne Chen (Chinese: 陳郁芬), who published a book in 2007 called 65°C Bread Doctor (Chinese: 65°C 湯種麵包), borrowing the Japanese term 湯種 directly.
A brick flue (Russian: боров) in the attic, sometimes with a chamber for smoking food, is required to slow down the cooling of the stove.
From small independents to the world’s largest corporations, the 1,600+ member companies include food retailers, manufacturers, wholesalers, brokers, distributors, and other industry professionals.
It was introduced by the Portuguese–Jewish plantation owners as the Portuguese potato ("pomme de terre") oven dish.
In 1935, L'Illustrazione Italiana reported that the new factory had a conveyor belt measuring thirty metres and large industrial ovens to keep up with production.
Modern bakestones are usually circular with a cut-out handle and are made of cast iron or steel, approximately 1 cm (0.4 in) thick.
They moved to Los Angeles, where she sold her Cuban-style cakes and other foods from home, while her husband worked as a janitor.
Motta's contribution to panettone was to create a distinctive high dome shape for his bread that replaced the older style of flatter panettone as the standard.
For example, a cool oven has temperature set to 200 °F (93 °C), and a slow oven has a temperature range from 300–325 °F (149–163 °C).
Ford began by growing wheat on the High Plains using organic methods at a time when chemical fertilizers and pesticides were becoming standard in U.S.
Sponsorship In the past, the company has sponsored "bull riding events" and NASCAR races at Michigan International Speedway.
The gelatinized roux is generally used at a moderate temperature and apparently also contributes to slightly greater rise during baking.
The chef then stored this pre-mixed biscuit batter on ice in his kitchen, enabling him to bake fresh biscuits quickly on the train every day.
In 1994, the human food business was spun off to Ralcorp Holdings, operating as Ralston Foods, which then sold its branded breakfast cereal lineup to General Mills and its Continental Baking division (Wonder Bread and Twinkies) to Interstate Bakeries.
The Bacon Explosion's creators produced a cookbook featuring the recipes which ultimately won the 2010 Gourmand World Cookbook Awards for "Best Barbecue Book in the World".
The stuffing is traditionally made using dry fruits like raisins, coconut, almonds, and cashews, along with khoa, semolina (rava/sooji), cardamom (elaichi), sugar, and pistachio.
The show is an opportunity for companies to grow their businesses with networking, buying, selling, and an abundance of educational experiences.
A benefit of these early pies was that meat could be preserved for several months and the food contained within was protected from contamination.
As an acid, cream of tartar with heat reduces sugar crystallization in invert syrups by helping to break down sucrose into its monomer components - fructose and glucose in equal parts.
Sir William Bilsland LLD (17 March 1847 – 27 August 1921) was a Scottish baker who owned one of Scotland's largest bakeries, and was Lord Provost of Glasgow.
Cherrybrook Kitchen was founded in response to the growing number of children and adults diagnosed with food allergies.
"Effect of different oils and sugar syrups on the properties of tray kadayif (traditional Turkish dessert)".
Like Yorkshire pudding or David Eyre's pancake, instead of a raising agent, it employs high moisture content to create steam during cooking to puff the pastry.
This mixture is sometimes mistakenly made with vinegar and sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), which actually react to neutralize each other, creating carbon dioxide and a sodium acetate solution.
Nathaniel Whetham (1604 – 16 September 1668) was an English baker and politician who sat in the House of Commons between 1654 and 1659.
Andrew Whitley in his book Bread Matters: The State of Modern Bread and a Definitive Guide to Baking Your Own criticises the CBP for the inferior flavour and texture of the bread made in this way.
Tabaheg (Balochi: تباهگ) is a traditional Balochi food in which the meat is salted and dried with sour pomegranate and salt.
Awards In 1939, Angelo Motta was awarded Knight of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre, a prestigious Catholic chivalric order.
History "Scalding" flour, especially rye flour, for baking is a technique that has been used for centuries and is traditional in China to make steamed buns.
Ekberg 1852−1952 (1952) Rafael Hertzberg, Helsingfors för trehundra år sedan och i våra dagar (1888) Bo Lönnqvist, Bakelser i Helsingfors.
It was developed by Bill Collins, George Elton and Norman Chamberlain of the British Baking Industries Research Association at Chorleywood in 1961.
Maine Grains is an American supplier of stone milled flour, rolled oats, and other grains for culinary use.
In November 2015, Pinnacle Foods announced it would be acquiring Boulder Brands for around $710 million, as part of the company’s strategy to expand its health and wellness services.
The 2010 US winner The Essential New York Times Cookbook: Classic Recipes for a New Century by Amanda Hesser also contained the recipe for the Bacon Explosion.
The school is located at a Grade II listed former fire station dating back to the 1850s at the Welbeck Estate.
In the 1960s, as supermarkets began selling ready meals, cauliflower cheese was invoked by Elizabeth David as a symbol of good British cooking as she asked wistfully whether a day would come that "it's going to be clever to serve some relaxed English dish like cauliflower cheese".
Use Before use, the frozen dough is slowly (12-18 hours) thawed to the temperatures of 1 °C to 4 °C while avoiding dehydration.
See also Media related to Pasta al forno at Wikimedia Commons Al forno Anelletti al forno Lasagna Pastitsio References Bibliography Sicilia (in Italian).
The final vote on amalgamation was passed with a 71% majority of the association's membership in favour of the change.
In August 1644 he was described as 'Commander in chiefe' and 'valliant and faithfull' in the first siege of Banbury Castle.
His startling success saw his company expand considerably during the interwar years, with Motta Foods introducing new bread, including a celebratory Easter bread known as a colomba pasquale, a dove-shaped yeast bread that uses panettone yeast but contains less fruit.
The acquisition made ConAgra the largest private-label packaged food business in the United States at that time.
In Spain and Latin America, churros are made of fried choux pastry, sugared and dipped in a thick hot chocolate for breakfast.
Rosa Porto retired from baking in the 1990s; her children and grandchildren continue to run the business, now with over a thousand employees.
Only the latter is indigenous, and although all plant parts are edible, only the underground part of the main stem is used as an ingredient in preparing pom.
In 2019, Hain Celestial sold the Arrowhead Mills and SunSpire brands to Chicago-based Hometown Food Company for US$15 million in a transaction that included the Hereford, Texas manufacturing plant and its employees.
Production The modern commercial production of potassium carbonate is by reaction of potassium hydroxide with carbon dioxide: 2 KOH + CO2 → K2CO3 + H2O From the solution crystallizes the sesquihydrate K2CO3·1.5H2O ("potash hydrate").
German pumpernickel is traditionally made from a sourdough starter, although modern pumpernickel loaves often use commercial yeasts, sometimes spiked with citric acid or lactic acid to inactivate the amylases in the rye flour.
Founded in 2009 by Alison Swan Parente, the school aims to teach the 'lost skills' of artisan food production.
was founded by Robert Atkins in order to promote the low-carbohydrate packaged foods of the Atkins diet.
Fredrik Edvard Ekberg (29 June 1825 – 10 April 1891) was a Finnish pastry chef and baker who founded Café Ekberg in Helsinki.
Arms References External links 1965 documentary Bilsland Bread, National Library of Scotland Derelict bakery building prior to demolition
Conversely, a wetter and warmer starter has more bacterial activity and less yeast growth, with more lactic acid relative to acetic acid.
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayad described it as a great achievement and honor for the Palestinian people: "This great achievement completely depended on Palestinian products, mainly olive oil.
Awards In 2002, the Bread Bakers Guild of America awarded Suas its Golden Baguette in recognition of his contributions to the artisan baking industry.
He left his manorial home for a small tenancy on the estate and remained there until his death in 1668 at the age of about 64.
In 1889, Pillsbury and its five mills on the banks of the Mississippi River were purchased by a British company.
History According to General Mills, Bisquick was invented in 1930 after one of their top sales executives met an innovative train dining car chef, on a business trip.
The noodles are cooked in salt water and drained, crumbled cheese (túró), chopped, fried, crispy bacon, topped with thick Hungarian sour cream (tejföl) and lightly salted.
Bowden described being met by "warmth and elaborate courtesy" by the two released men, who he described as "uneducated, unworldly, and dirt poor".
The gelatinized flour is more stable than normal bread dough, which normally tends to crystallize, creating stale bread.
Bakers Pride works in partnership with foodservice dealers and awards dealerships who maintain a commercial showroom, engineering department, or warehouse.
The remainder of the purchase price was financed under the Company's revolving credit facility." The rumor of the deal broke in October 2015.
It became known after being posted on the BBQ Addicts blog in 2008, and spread to the mainstream press with numerous stories discussing the dish.
After the sales executive complimented the chef on his deliciously fresh biscuits, the dining car chef shared that he used a pre-mixed biscuit batter he created consisting of lard, flour, baking powder and salt.
After baking, the pastry is brushed with egg yolk to give it a golden color, and later filled with a mixture of meat and spices and then baked.
A year later, Isabella Beeton included a recipe for "Cauliflowers with Parmesan Cheese" in her original, 1861 edition of Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management.
History Pâte brisée is, according to the French-American Cultural Foundation, a classic of French pastry.
The Polish dish is usually cooked in salted water, whereas in Belarusian and Lithuanian cuisines kapytki is baked first, then stewed or boiled in water.
On 9 September of that year, the School's new buildings were opened by Alderman Francis Tonsley JP, president of the National Association of Master Bakers, supported by the mayors of Northampton and Southwark, the chairman of the Institute and its governing body.
Porto's Bakery & Cafe locations grew to include shops currently operating in Burbank, Downey, Buena Park, West Covina and Northridge, with a seventh site scheduled to open in 2025 at the Downtown Disney District at the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim.
The frozen dough is used for home baking and by small bakeries, especially the supermarket deli ones, due to the simplicity of baking using the pre-made dough, especially for more complicated products (Danish pastries, croissants).
In 1985 it made its first appearance as a simple-to-make mix requiring no measuring, kneading or rising time to bake.
Etymology Nappage is a French word, meaning 'coating' or 'topping', and deriving from the word napper, meaning "to cover something with sauce".
Chef Jeff Pond of A4 Pizza stated he always used Bakers Pride ovens which, along with Blodgett and Marsal & Sons, are the most popular pizza ovens in the New York region.
Ekberg opened his first bakery in 1852 in Kruununhaka, Helsinki, which moved four years later to the Kiseleffska building on Aleksanterinkatu.
Unlike éclairs, which are also made with choux pastry, chouquettes are bite-sized and the hollow inside is not filled.
In the UK, cauliflower cheese is often eaten as a side dish, particularly with roast dinners, and at times as a main to accommodate vegetarian diets.
Frozen dough is dough that have been frozen in order to decouple the dough preparation and baking processes of breadmaking (without freezing, the dough must be used quickly once prepared).
11 million adults and children are affected by peanut, dairy, egg and nut allergens, while approximately one in 133 Americans has Celiac Disease.
History Potassium carbonate is the primary component of potash and the more refined pearl ash or salt of tartar.
Preparation Preparing a Bacon Explosion "requires the minimum of culinary talent" and the ingredient list is short.
Also, there was Gorilla Milk—"...you'll go ape for Gorilla Milk, a glass in the morning and you'll swing all day"—a protein additive that turned milk into an instant breakfast.
In 2019, Los Angeles Times referred to Porto's as "the most beloved bakery in all of Los Angeles." Personal life Rosa and Raúl Porto married in Cuba in 1955.
Society volunteers grow the starter, dry it on trays into thin sheets, and grind the crumbly material into a coarse powder.
In 1907 King Edward VII created him a baronet, as Sir William Bilsland, Baronet of Park Circus, for his services to Glasgow.
Origin Beggar's chicken is very popular in China, with many regions claiming it as traditionally their own.
One content analysis of 25 introductory and advanced texts found that Keith's eras were reproduced in all but four.
The strands are also known as kadayif noodles, string kadayif, wire kadayif, tray kadayif, and tel kadayıf, although some of these names are also used for finished desserts.
Before the 19th century, bakestones were made of stone; usually oval and of schistose steatite (soapstone), slate or very fine micaceous flaggy sandstone about 1+1⁄2 inches (4 cm) thick.
The baker must refrain from kneading doughs for pastry or quick breads such as muffins, scones, and American-style biscuits in order to prevent the development of gluten, which would give the finished products a tough, rubbery texture.
Biography In 2022, Kelly was gifted a horse box from the 1960s for her 18th birthday which she converted into a bakery truck.
In one, a beggar stole a chicken from a farm but having no pot or utensils, he wrapped the bird in lotus leaves and packed clay or mud around it, set it in a hole where he had lit a fire, and buried it.
Traditionally, noodles used for this dish are home-made with flour and eggs, mixed into a dough, and torn by hand into uneven fingernail-sized pieces that are then boiled in water.
Bakers Pride Oven Company is an American manufacturer of commercial baking, cooking and broiling equipment.
Other Dutch cities such as Rotterdam and The Hague have a growing number of caterers, eateries and take-aways.
He would return the paintings, a person playing on a cittern and another representing two persons one of whom is sitting writing a letter if she paid all her debts.
Bilsland Brothers In 1877, with his brothers, he bought a large piece of ground on Hydepark Street and on which they built the large Hydepark Bakery, adopting the company name of Bilsland Brothers.
It shortens baking times by forming gluten structural protein complexes more quickly than would occur without kneading and incorporates air into the dough.
After thawing, the dough undergoes proofing that takes about 50% more time than what is used for conventional dough, up to 1+1⁄2 hours.
In late 18th-century North America, before the development of baking powder, pearl ash was used as a leavening agent for quick breads.
Following the death of its founder in 2003, the popularity of the diet and demand for Atkins products waned, causing Atkins Nutritionals Inc.
The shape can be a full circle with an alternative name of Suryakala, representing the shape of the sun.
Kopytka can be served savoury (baked with cheese, fried bacon, fried onion, or with a variety of sauces such as goulash or mushroom sauce); they can also be served sweet (with melted butter and sugar, cinnamon, or sweetened quark), or sugar with sour cream.
The scheme was approved by the London County Council Education Board in April 1894 and funds granted.
Lower hydration rates (e.g., 50–57%) are typical for bagels and pretzels, and medium hydration levels (58–65%) are typical for breads and rolls.
In bread baking, kneading can be substituted by allowing a relatively wet, low-yeast dough to ferment for more than 12 hours, which allows the gluten to develop in the absence of kneading, before shaping, allowing to rise, and baking; this method is referred to as no-knead bread.
For tangzhong the flour is cooked at 65 °C (149 °F) in the liquid which causes its starch to gelatinize.
See also Polyglycerol polyricinoleate (PGPR) an emulsifier made from castor beans commonly used in compound chocolate Types of chocolate References Further reading Dale, Stuart (2017).
'baked pasta'), also known as timballo di pasta ('pasta pie'), is a typical dish of Italian cuisine, made of (usually short) pasta covered with béchamel sauce, tomato sauce, and cheese, and cooked in the oven (al forno).
The porridge or the pancakes prepared in such a stove may differ in taste from the same meal prepared on a modern stove or range.
The company was founded in 2004 by Patsy Rosenberg and is headquartered in Burlington, Massachusetts.
Another method of knocking back (also known as "folding") is to gently stretch and pat out the proved dough before folding the sides in towards the centre.
See also List of French desserts References Further reading Pfeiffer, Jacquy; Shulman, Martha Rose (2013-12-03).
Focused in the dairy, deli, and bakery industries, they promote growth through the exchange of ideas, inspiration, and information.
Etymology The word kopytka [kopyto "hoof", kopytko "little hoof", neuter singular nouns] is Polish for "little hooves," such as those of a small hoofed animal (for example, a goat).
Acme Bread was his first client, and La Brea Bakery was his second, followed by many others throughout the United States including Metropolis, Grace Baking, Boudin Bakery, and Thomas Keller's restaurants.
Enrollment is typically approximately 30 students at a given time: 16 in bread classes and 12-16 in pastry classes.
World records On April 20, 2010, the largest ever dish of musakhan was prepared in Ramallah and was entered into the Guinness Book of World Records.
Later that month, Kelly became an ambassador for Breast Cancer Ireland's Bake It Pink initiative after a benign tumor was removed from her breast 2 years prior.
A convection oven can eliminate the need to cover the dish and allows it to cook evenly, but the chicken should still be wrapped with lotus leaves and sheets of aluminum foil, and would be ready in less time than in an electric oven.
milleri can grow under conditions of low pH and relatively high acetate levels, a factor contributing to sourdough flora's stability.
During the 1960s, Ford expanded from wheat into other grains grown without synthetic pesticides and continued to mill them on stone equipment.
The brand expansion continued through 1990 with the launch of cake mixes, cookie mixes, pancake mixes and one vanilla scone mix.
Common oven temperatures (such as terms: cool oven, very slow oven, slow oven, moderate oven, hot oven, fast oven, etc.) are set to control the effects of baking in an oven, for various lengths of time.
Teams from 12 countries are invited to compete in the Coupe du Monde de la Boulangerie, based upon their rankings in regional competitions.
The mailing volunteer notes that the website is regularly mentioned in newspapers publishing articles on sourdough bread, increasing demand.
A bakestone is a type of griddle, particularly associated with Wales, where they are used for cooking Welsh cakes.
The purpose of the competition is to gather artisan bakers from around the world to celebrate their profession, share knowledge of artisan baking techniques, and reinstate the value of the artisan baking profession.
It is used as a lower-cost alternative to pure chocolate, as it has less-expensive hard vegetable fats such as coconut oil or palm kernel oil in place of the more expensive cocoa butter.
In April 2013 Dassant launched Dassant Classics, a brand new selection of three baking mix flavors including brownie, carrot cake and a blondie bar.
Also known as the World Cup of Baking, the Coupe du Monde de la Boulangerie Archived 2019-09-22 at the Wayback Machine is held in conjunction with Europain Archived 2019-09-22 at the Wayback Machine, an international bakery, patisserie, and catering exhibition attracting more than 80,000 visitors.
Brown asserted that his company could have built the plant in question for $1 million, whereas ConAgra was granted a $37 million contract.
“Whenever the secret police would come to raid the house, we already knew they were coming and the neighbors would take the equipment we had to the backyard, so they never caught her,” her daughter recounted in a 2017 interview.
However, the shell becomes soaked with the meat juices and historically was sometimes eaten by house servants after the meal had concluded.
According to Moret, since Bruce Foods has been unwilling to open up their ledgers, they were automatically disqualified from receiving state economic loans.
History The School was founded in 2009 by William and Alison Swan Parente as the UK's first artisan food school, and opened that October.
It is sometimes called formula percentage, a phrase that refers to the sum of a set of baker's percentages.
However, there has also been a reaction against the ubiquity of CBP-produced bread, including the formation of a campaign group for "real bread", as opposed to CBP bread.
She also serves as co-founder of the Maine Grain Alliance, a trade association serving the state's grain community.
Foods that are believed to acquire a distinctive character from being prepared in a Russian stove include baked milk, pastila candies, mushrooms cooked in sour cream, or even a simple potato.
Looks to tap Russian market Brown comments on trade relations with Russia Hoover's Profile Bruce Foods Corporation
Turkish scholarship likewise treats kadayıf as an Arabic-derived sweet that later developed multiple forms in Seljuk, Ottoman, and modern Turkish cuisine.
The blackened surface is not removed when the bakestone is cleaned and bakestones are believed to improve with repeated use.
They publish an annual trends report, What’s in Store, which includes quarterly and annually updated data available online.
Some sources state that the dish was created by mistake, where in communal ovens that were dug into the ground, ingredients like chicken and bread were frequently placed next to one another to cook simultaneously, and eventually came to be placed on top of one another.
The high-shear mixing generates high temperatures in the dough, which is cooled in some advanced mixers using a cooling jacket.
Preparation and serving The typical ingredients are boiled potatoes and flour, but may also include eggs, salt, and other seasoning.
He was also responsible for reorganising the armed forces, and setting up of a Hampshire Militia under his own command.
Amalgamation Following a history of co-operation on industrial issues, and the problem of reduced membership due to changes in the industry such as automation, the Marine Cooks, Bakers and Butchers' Association decided on 8 August 1979 to amalgamate with the Seamen's Union of Australia (SUA).
The Department of Defense released a list of all the captives who had been detained in Guantanamo, in military custody on 15 May 2006.
The Original Line includes all-natural gourmet baking mixes that are free of peanuts, dairy, eggs and nuts; the gluten free line, introduced in 2005 as Gluten Free Dreams, is made with rice flour and is free of gluten and wheat in addition to peanuts, dairy, eggs and nuts.
New bakestones are seasoned by burning a mixture of lard or oil and salt, giving a non-stick surface and protecting against rust.
Mary Işın writes that kadayif originated as a griddle cake in medieval Arab cuisine and was transformed in early Ottoman times into pastry threads cooked on a griddle, a form that later spread widely in the Near East.
Dough hydration In a recipe, the baker's percentage for water is referred to as the "hydration"; it is indicative of the stickiness of the dough and the "crumb" of the bread.
Monconys opined that he would have thought he had overpaid for it had he bought it for sixty guilders.
See also Guantanamo suicide attempts Solitary confinement References External links The Guantánamo Files: Website Extras (7) – From Sheberghan to Kandahar Andy Worthington
On 8 May 2003, Muhammad was released at the same time as two other Pakistanis, Jehan Wali and Sahibzada Usman Ali.
Standard phrases The various standard phrases, to describe oven temperatures, include words such as "cool" to "hot" or "very slow" to "fast".
In May 2025, Kelly was a judge for Gala Retail and Virgin Media Television's National Best Baker Competition.
When combined with sodium bicarbonate, it acts as a leavening agent, producing carbon dioxide gas that helps baked goods rise.
In 2013 Boulder Brands acquired gluten-free Davies Bakery in the UK The company announced plans to discontinue the Bestlife spread and Smart Balance Butter Blend categories in 2013.
In addition to educating their members, they also offer opportunities for professional development through scholarships, grants, and the IDDBA Career Center.
Usenet The starter became publicly known in the 1990s through the early Internet via Griffith's presence on Usenet's rec.food.sourdough group.
The process of amalgamation, including dealing with objections raised by the Miscellaneous Workers' Union, meant that the association continued to exist, gradually merging with the SUA, a process which was completed in 1984.
The diet was developed after Atkins read a research paper in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
Cajun Injector lawsuit Cajun Injector founder Chef Maurice "Reece" Williams sued Bruce Foods to the tune of $24 million in 2005, claiming that the company had not done due diligence promoting the product, as agreed upon when Williams sold his line of injectable marinades to Bruce Foods.
Since 2001, the Institute has worked with the Bread Project to train low-income students for bakery careers.
Generally, the baker finds it easiest to use the system of measurement that is present on the available tools.
Macaroni bows or home-made thin pasta squares (like tiny lasagne) are boiled in salted water, drained, and mixed with some cooking oil or fat.
FNBPB is a member of the International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers' Association.
In recent years, more and more recipes for pom have appeared in Dutch cookbooks, newspapers and on websites.
Cauliflower cheese is a popular dish in Northern Italy, where it is eaten under the name cavolfiore al gratin.
In early 2012, Dassant introduced a line of baking mixes including pancakes, cookies, carrot cake and pumpkin bread."Dassant Introduces a New Face in Premium Baking Mixes" (Press release).
The glaze is used to cover fruit on a fruit tart or other baked goods, to make the fruit pieces shiny, prevent them from drying out, and to reduce oxidation (e.g., browning of cut fruit).
To initially create the pre-ferment, water and flour are mixed and left in a warm place for a week or two.
It is made from two pounds (0.91 kg) of thick cut bacon, two pounds of Italian sausage, one jar of barbecue sauce, and one jar of barbecue rub/seasoning.
Fédération nationale des boulangers et pâtissiers du Burkina (FNBPB) is a trade union of bakery workers in Burkina Faso.
Chandrakala in Hindi means moonlight, so it is moon shaped (similar to the shape of a small Empanada).
Flour, water, and any other ingredients (e.g., sugar, milk, apples, potatoes) are stirred in to the reserved portion.
The mixture is cooked a few minutes longer, then cooled before adding enough eggs to achieve the desired consistency.
During the 1990s John Marchant became Head of the National Bakery School, which ran until 2010, the Tower Restaurant, which was used to train students, sell food produced by the School and for formal dining at the London South Bank University.
Sweet Walnut pasta Layers of pasta, jam and ground walnuts mixed with sugar, finished with noodles, are placed into a greased pan.
If he earned more than 600 guilders a year, he belonged to the richest people in Holland, where a guilder a day was seen as a very good salary.
The concept of using flour and fat to create a pastry dough can be traced back to ancient civilizations, but it was the French who refined and popularized the technique.
Many countries do not permit the use of potassium bromate, leaving lipoxygenase enzymes as the only practical alternative in the beginning of the 21st century.
forces On 7 April 2009, the Defense Intelligence Agency drafted a report, published on 27 May 2009, that listed a "Shah Mohammed" as having been "killed while fighting U.S.
For this reason, many breadmaking books that are targeted to home bakers provide both percentages and volumes for common batch sizes.
Cauliflowers were introduced to England in the 17th century, and in Food Cultures of Great Britain this is taken as a likely origin for the dish.
Cherrybrook Kitchen is a privately held company producing baking products for the food allergy market.
Kopytka or kopitka (literally "little hooves") are a kind of potato dumpling in Polish, Belarusian, and Lithuanian cuisines.
The Association represented workers employed as cooks, bakers, butchers and other food preparation roles aboard ships in Australia and New Zealand.
The School's cheesemaking courses have been claimed by The Guardian to have "helped to transform the British industry".
The country was first created as the Tajik Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, an autonomous republic within the Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic.
The word lès (French pronunciation: [lɛ] , and [lɛz‿] with liaison) is an archaic French preposition meaning "near", "nearby", or "next to".
1932–1937), English footballer Billy Coutu (1892–1977), Canadian NHL player Billy Cowan (born 1938), American MLB player Billy Cowan (footballer) (fl.
Distorted by the interconnected goals of Soviet ethnic policies and the rise of Tajik nationalism, the meaning of "Tajik" has been altered in both Tajik and Russian academic discourse, throughout the Soviet and post-Soviet eras.
UNGEGN aims to emphasize the importance of the standardization of geographical names at the national and international levels, to show the benefits of this, and to assist countries in standardization of geographical names where it is lacking.
As of 2002 some 28,000 people identify as Khanty, primarily in Tyumen Oblast, which includes the Khanty–Mansi Autonomous Okrug.
(The Romans added the Latin nominative endings -ia and -ius.) A spelling with an initial "I" later became dominant, possibly because of a resemblance to the Latin word ignis "fire".
Welsh-Canadian novelist Jo Walton is credited with coining the term "Tiffany problem" in 2019 to refer to this phenomenon.
The community was very active in Venice with the notable members such as Anna Notaras (the daughter of Loukas Notaras, the last megas doux of the Byzantine Empire), Thomas Flanginis (the founder of the Flanginian School) and many others.
It is sometimes a given name (or "first name"), but more often it is a hypocorism (affectionate variation of a personal name) which takes the place of a given name, usually Douglas.
Ancient Greek and Roman statues are often portrayed as white, due to their modern appearance, despite evidence of being colorfully painted.
Lipsitt of Brown University and further expanded with the help of Dickson's friends, mostly from newspapers and phone books.
Since the early 20th century, the most common English spelling is Nathaniel, a change likely influenced by the popularity of other Biblical names ending in -iel (e.g.
The name was among the 1,000 most popular names for girls born in the United States at different times between 1880 and 1935.
The term was coined by Saul Kripke in his 1970 lecture series at Princeton University, later published as the book Naming and Necessity.
Giles (1892–1984), US Army Air Force lieutenant general Barney Hill (1922–1969), an American who, with his wife, claimed to have been kidnapped by aliens Barney F.
Ademollo, F., 2011, The 'Cratylus' of Plato: a Commentary, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press Annas, J., 1982, 'Knowledge and language: the Theaetetus and Cratylus', in Schofield and Nussbaum 1982: 95–114.
Either the Franks took their name from a war leader called Francus, or else their name referred to their wild manners (feritas morum).
In popular culture Raphael, along with many other prominent angels, appears in John Milton's Paradise Lost, in which he is assigned by God to re-warn Adam concerning the sin of eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
In books and other works, the subtitle is an explanatory title added by the author to the title proper of a work.
Ezekiel is a masculine Hebrew language name, meaning "God's Strength." It can be used as both a given name and a surname.
4 was drafted, concerning the publication of toponymic guidelines for map and other editors: This resolution presents a checklist on the contents of guidelines and recommends that the toponymic guidelines submitted by Austria should serve as a sample of format and contents.
Из исследований по праславянскому словообразованию: генезис модели на * -i ninъ, *- janinъ // Этимология.
They are also referred to as "black Moors" to differentiate them from the "white Moors" who enslaved them, and from black Mauritanians who have not been enslaved by the Moors.
Universe, husband of Jayne Mansfield Mickey Hart (born 1943), American drummer with The Grateful Dead Mickey Harte (fl.
Hammond has pointed out that the names Graeci and Hellenes spread from contact with small tribes or with Graia, a defunct Greek polis in the Gulf of Euboea.
Analysis of theonyms has been useful in understanding the connections of Indo-European languages and possibly their religion.
It may be used a diminutive of any name containing "fred", regardless of origin, as with Freddy Adu and Freddie Benson, both Ghanaians named Fredua.
Therefore, especially in the context of cybersecurity, for a file in a file format that has a magic number, which is a distinctive sequence of bytes affixed to a file's header, the file's true nature should be determined by checking the magic number.
Dorotheus or Dorotheos is a male given name from Greek Dōrótheos (Δωρόθεος), meaning "God's Gift", from δῶρον (dōron), "gift" + θεός (theós), "god".
series See also Iggy's Reckin' Balls, a game for the Nintendo 64 Italian Greyhound, a dog breed nicknamed the Iggy
Moreover, many languages have the same word for both the country of the Netherlands and the region of the Low Countries, e.g., French (les Pays-Bas), Spanish (los Países Bajos) and Portuguese (Países Baixos).
His studies include general and Russian onomastics, toponymy and lexicology, forensic linguistic expertise, Slavic studies and speech culture, Russian language in computer technologies.
Проблема омонимов подлинных и ложных и семантическая типология // Теория и практика этимологических исследований.
Since the second half of the 20th century, "Early Netherlandish painting", has replaced the term "Flemish Primitives", despite the equivalents remaining current in French, Dutch and other languages; the latter is now only seen in English text poorly-translated from those other languages.
Bush might have lost the election, meaning that the 43rd President might have been Al Gore or Ralph Nader instead.
One reviewer described the term as having "the inherent, unwieldy power to incite black Americans with such intense divisiveness and fervor" as few others.
This incomplete bibliography lists 1527 titles and contains an English language biographical sketch of Rudnyckyj by Olha Woycenko.
Frans is an Afrikaans, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, Icelandic, Norwegian, and Swedish given name, sometimes as a short form of François or Franciscus.
A son of Passhur, one of the biblical priests who had taken a pagan wife but repented according to Ezra 10:22.
Even when the Byzantine Empire was reduced to only a shadow of its former self, the Church, as an institution, exercised so much influence both inside and outside the imperial frontiers as never before.
TV series Cheers Norm Sherry (1931–2021), American catcher, manager, and coach in Major League Baseball Norm Smith (1915–1973), Australian rules football player and coach Norm Smith (footballer born 1946), Australian rules footballer Norm Smith (rugby union) (c.
Hellenes and barbarians In the following centuries, Hellene typically contrasted with barbarian, representing the uncivilized.
A multiple-use name or anonymity pseudonym is a name used by many different people to protect anonymity.
Notable bearers of the name include: Amenirdisu or Amyrtaeus, only pharaoh of the Twenty-eighth dynasty Amenirdis I, God's Wife of Amun during the Twenty-fifth dynasty Amenirdis II, Divine Adoratrice of Amun during the Twenty-fifth dynasty == Sources ==
Microsoft's Windows NT's native file system, NTFS, and the later ReFS, also store the file name as a single string; again, the convention of using suffixes to simulate extensions continued, for compatibility with existing versions of Windows.
Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb and Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance).
Another kind of subtitle, often used in the past, is the alternative title, also called alternate title, traditionally denoted and added to the title with the alternative conjunction "or" – hence its name.
The Old English cognate of the name is Ōsgār (the given name Oscar is however thought to be of Irish origin).
In: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Statistics Division (ed.): Manual for the standardization of geographical names.
As the Iranologist John Perry notes, this has resulted in a situation where "the tail often wags the dog", where a small or unimportant part of something is becoming too important.
Other derivatives of this word such as Farang (noun), Farangi (adjective), and compound words like Farangi Ma'āb (literally 'French-styled'), are used with lower frequency in Modern Persian, and without any negative connotation.
Theonymy, the study of divine proper names, is a branch of onomastics, the study of the etymology, history, and use of proper names.
It was previously named Porter's Spring, after controversial Mormon gunfighter Orrin Porter Rockwell.
Career Born in Przemyśl, Habsburg Galicia, in what is today eastern Poland near the border with Ukraine, he received his M.A.
Fran is a Spanish, Italian, Croatian and Albanian male name or a common short form of the English names Frances and Francis.
Larson Ned Ludd Netochka Nezvanova The Wallys John and Jane Doe See also Collective pseudonym I'm Spartacus, pop culture usage Kilroy was here signature Placeholder name == References ==
2 (The Peace Disc) released in 2000, the song "Hello" contains the lyrics "I'm looking for a big yellow in 6-inch stilettos".
Doug is a male personal name (or, depending on which definition of "personal name" one uses, part of a personal name).
It is also derived from the Slavic name Barni, the pet form of Barnim, which means "defender", and it was formerly a popular name throughout Pomerania.
Evidence of the use of the term Graikos can be found in the works of Priscus, a historian of the 5th century AD.
Britt, American music professor Catherine Britt (born 1984), Australian country music artist Elton Britt (1913–1972), American country music yodeler and singer King Britt (born 1968), American DJ and producer Politics Charles Robin Britt (born 1942), U.S.
The term Moor is an exonym used in European languages to designate primarily the Muslim populations of North Africa (the Maghreb) and the Iberian Peninsula (particularly al-Andalus) during the Middle Ages.
When they were asked to declare their nationality when the Soviet Union was defining its borders, there was a lot of uncertainty, such as in Khujand, where its people did not know if they were Tajiks or Uzbeks.
See also Wili (disambiguation), includes a list of people with the name Wili Willi, a given name Willye, given name William (name) Willies (disambiguation), includes a list of people with the name Willies All pages with titles containing willie All pages with titles containing Willy
The Oxford English Dictionary reported that the word appeared in a Funk & Wagnall’s dictionary in 1921, defined as "a surname indicative of an occupation: as, Glass, the glazier".
Chairman of the Board of the Guild of Linguistic Experts on Documentation and Information Disputes (2001).
Frangistan (Persian: فرنگستان) was a term used by Easterners and Persians in particular, during the Middle Ages and later historical periods to refer to Western or Latin Europe.
She explained that the name Tiffany derives from Theophania, a name for girls in medieval England and France.
The Selkup language, also known as Selkups, Chumyl' Khumyt, Shöl Khumyt, Shösh Gulla, Syusugulla, or Ostyak Samoyed, is a Uralic Samoyedic language with perhaps two thousand or more native speakers.
People Thea Andrews (born 1973), Canadian journalist Thea Astley (1925–2004), Australian writer Thea Beckman (1923–2004), Dutch writer Thea Bock (1938–2025), German politician Thea Bowman (1937–1990), American nun Thea Dorn (born 1970), German writer Thea E.
(who belong to the country or are related to it), or also foreigners who have white skin, blond hair or European appearance.
Furthermore, UNGEGN facilitates and encourages the discussion of the results of work on national standardization and arising issues, the dissemination of best practices, and a wide user community awareness of nationally authorized geographical names.
Marine tortured and killed at the Battle of Iwo Jima Andre Iguodala (born 1984), American basketball player Michael Ignatieff (born 1947), historian and Canadian politician Iggy Jones (c.
The Catholic Church accordingly links Raphael with Michael and Gabriel as saints whose intercession can be sought through prayer.
Usage It is used in the Gheg dialect of Albanian to refer to Southern Slavs such as Serbs, Macedonians, Montenegrins, to a lesser extent Croats and Bosniaks, and also simply non-Albanians such as Greeks and Italians.
Figures in the Old Testament, which is transliterated from Hebrew, have their names rendered as Nethanel in English whereas those in the New Testament, which is translated from Greek, have theirs rendered as Nathanael.
Notable people with the name include: Billy & Louie, British contestant on The Voice UK series 13 Billy the Artist (1964–2022), American artist and writer Billy the Axeman (active c.
Ethnonyms with the same origin are also found in Romance languages of the Balkans, such as Dalmatian and Eastern Romance languages (c.f.
Grant Mormon* Mormon is a prophet who gave his name to the Book of Mormon, which in turn produced the nickname of Latter-day Saints.
Huinca or wingka is an exonym used by indigenous Mapuche to refer to non-Mapuche, white Chileans and Argentines.
Junior, William Makepeace Thackeray's pen name for Catherine, his first novel Other uses IKey, an American computer parts manufacturer Ikeys, nickname is University of Cape Town Ikey Tigers, a University of Cape Town rugby union team See also Kike (disambiguation)
Non-rigid designators are defined by contrast with Kripke's notion of a rigid designator, which picks out the same thing uniquely in every possible world; while there are possible worlds in which the 43rd President of the United States is Al Gore instead of George W.
1785), African-American slave accused of treason Billy Sleeth (born 1979), American soccer player Billy Smart (disambiguation), several people Billy Smiley (born 1957), American Christian music producer, songwriter, and musician Billy Smith (disambiguation), several people Billy Smyth (c.
It is often used by both men and women whose names contain the Germanic element -fred, such as Frederick, Frederica, and Alfred.
Raphael first appears in two works of this period, 1 Enoch, a collection of originally independent texts from the 3rd century BC, and the Book of Tobit, from the early 2nd century BC.
The name originated during the Hundred Years War (1337–1453) between England and France, when English soldiers were notorious among the French for their frequent use of profanity and in particular the interjection "God damn".
Palmu, main character of the Palmu novels and film adaptations See also All pages with titles beginning with Frans Fransen Franz (given name)
In time, the Mugat began adopting the customs, languages, and the Islamic faith of their Central Asian neighbors.
δ ('d') and τ ('t') as both involve "compression and [the] stopping of the power of the tongue" when pronounced, they are most appropriate for words indicating a lack or stopping of motion.
Ethnonyms can be divided into two categories: exonyms (where the name of the ethnic group has been created by another group of people) and autonyms or endonyms (self-designation; where the name is created and used by the ethnic group itself).
It may refer to: Duncan Dunc Annan (1895–1981), American National Football League player Dunc “Turbo” Dindas (fl.
One of the first modern multiple-use names was that of Nicolas Bourbaki, which first appeared in 1935.
For example, when Georgetown became part of Washington, D.C., the streets in Georgetown were renamed as an extension of Washington's street-naming convention.
Heber "had baptized many of the city’s early residents as a missionary in England before they immigrated." Henrieville Henrieville, Utah, in Garfield County, named for James Henrie, the first LDS stake president in its area.
This often occurs with names, terms, or practices that, although historically accurate, feel out of place because of modern associations.
It was common for lighter-skinned African Americans to hold "paper bag parties," which admitted only those whose complexion was lighter than that of a brown paper bag .
It is often short for Mildred, Amelia, Emily, Millicent, Camilla, Camila, Camille, Camile, Emilia, etc.
1525 BC), pharaoh and founder of the eighteenth dynasty of Egypt Amasis II (or Ahmose II), (reigned c.
It's also approximates "my heart" in Hebrew, and is a common Jewish given name as well as surname, in this case often a diminutive of Leibowitz.
Although commonly referred to as "Lyuli" and "Jughi," these terms are considered pejorative by the Mugat.
He became a Professor of the Department of General and Russian Linguistics of Peoples' Friendship University of Russia in 1996.
Leo Marvin, in the 1991 American comedy film What About Bob?, played by Richard Dreyfuss Leo Das, in the 2023 Indian action film Leo, played by Vijay Leo Beck, hunter in the video game Identity V Leo Tsukinaga, singer/songwriter from the franchise Ensemble Stars!
While in Iran, it remained in use until the end of the Qajar era as observed in various correspondences and administrative documents that refer to European countries.
Pronunciation In Akkadian records, the name (referring to Ramesses II) is rendered in cuneiform script as šá-te-ep-na-ri/e-a.
This is in contrast to a rigid designator, which does designate the same object in all possible worlds in which that object exists, and does not designate anything else in those worlds in which that object does not exist.
γ ('g') best used when imitating "something cloying", as the gliding of the tongue is stopped when pronounced.
Karel (1873–1938), American politician, judge, lawyer, college football player and coach Isaiah "Ikey" Owens (1974–2014), American keyboardist Ikey Solomon (1787?–1850), English criminal fence, regarded as the model for Charles Dickens' character Fagin Pseudonym Ikey Solomons, Esq.
1660), Italian Jewish printer Immanuel Bloch (born 1972), German experimental physicist Immanuel Bomze, (born 1958), Austrian mathematician Immanuel Bonfils (c.
Appearances in the Bible Nethanel ben Zuar; that is, the son of Zuar, chief of the tribe of Issachar and one of the leaders of the tribes of Israel during the Exodus (Numbers 1:8; 2:5, 7:18, 23; 10:15).
A theonym (from Greek theos (Θεός), 'god', attached to onoma (ὄνομα), 'name') is a proper name of a deity.
Gathings (1903–1979), American politician from Arkansas Ezekiel Hart (1767–1843), British North America entrepreneur and politician Ezekiel B.
A brief outline of Rudnyckyj's contribution to the Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism and its place in the forging of official multiculturalism in Canada.
Eliza is a female given name in English, meaning "pledged to God" or "joyful." Etymology The name first developed as a diminutive of Elizabeth in the 16th century and its use as an independent name started in the 18th century.
According to the Egyptologist Antonio Loprieno, the word was likely pronounced Satepna-rīꜥa ([satʰepʰna'riːʕa]).
Kazimierz Rymut (18 December 1935 in Chechły near Ropczyce - 14 November 2006, Kraków) was a Polish linguist, onomastician.
The Kazakh Mugat have faced social, economic, and political marginalization and discrimination throughout their history, and their cultural survival remains a challenge in modern-day Kazakhstan.
In publishing, a long-running book series may be written by numerous authors but published under a uniting collective pseudonym.
In European languages, it is usually a masculine given name and it comes from the Latin word leo, which in turn comes from the Greek word λέων meaning "lion".
(born 1956), American football player, son of the above Clay Matthews III (born 1986), American football player, son of the above Clay Riley, American politician Clay Milner Russell (born 1999), English actor Clay Shaw (1913–1974), charged by Jim Garrison with conspiracy to murder John F.
This etymology, through the lens of modern comparative linguistics, is unknown, but has carried a folk etymology since antiquity as meaning "The Unseen One".
The Khanty languages, also known as Hanty, Khant, Xanty, or Ostyak, are a Uralic language group with about 9,500 native speakers.
Biography He studied Polish studies at the Jagiellonian University; He got his doctorate in 1968, habilitated in 1972.
In another teaching he showed how the person who does not work during the six weekdays will soon find himself compelled to work on Shabbat.
List See also Jew (word) Person of Jewish ethnicity Footnotes 1 Ioudaios, Yehudi, Jewish, a "Judaean", "from the land of Yehuda (Judah, Judea)".
The 18th century Neapolitan nun, Saint Maria Francesca of the Five Wounds, is also said to have seen apparitions of Raphael.
2 Ivri, Hebrew, "one who passes over", a reference to the Biblical patriarch Abraham (or possibly Eber).
mid-17th century BC), an ancient Egyptian scribe who wrote the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus, a work of mathematics Ahmose, son of Ebana (fl.
Rexford (1848-1916), American writer, poet and lyricist Eben Ezra Roberts (1866-1843), American architect Eben William Robertson (1815–1874), British historian Eben Smith (1832-1906), American businessman Eben S.
Yoruba praise names (oríkìcode: yor promoted to code: yo ) serve as titles which can be given by friends, though are usually given by drummers.
1639 – 1707), American judge See also Nathaniel Natanael (given name) Nathan (given name) Nate (given name) Nethaneel Netanyahu (surname) All pages with titles beginning with Nathanael All pages with titles beginning with Nathanial == References ==
Nell is the name of: People Given name Nell (artist) (born 1975), Australian artist Nell Angloma (born 2006), French basketball player Nell Arthur (1837–1880), American First Lady Nell Ballantyne (1898–1959), Scottish actress Nell V.
It is sometimes a given name, but more often it is a hypocorism (affectionate diminutive of a personal name) which takes the place of a given name, usually Judith.
Khanty The Khanty people, who also call themselves Khanti, Khande, or Kantek were known to the Russians as Yugra in the eleventh century, with the name Ostyak first appearing in the sixteenth century.
Jannai is the name of one of the two teachers (the other is rabbi Jannai) sent by the Assyrian king to convert the pagans who had settled in Eretz Israel (later on, the Samaritans).
In 1986, on the 12th Session of the UNGEGN, it was decided to add for international use to the title.
The word "euonym" (eu- + -onym), dated to late 1800, is defined as "a name well suited to the person, place, or thing named".
Pinkie or Pinky is an English given name or hypocorism taken from a diminutive term for the color pink.
People Dorotheos (sculptor) (5th century BC), of Argos, to whom Kresilas was pupil Dorotheus of Sidon (fl.
late-16th century BC), princess and queen; probably daughter of Pharaoh Kamose and wife of Ahmose I Ahmose (fl.
Many place-names in Anatolia derive from this Turkish word (Rûm, "Romans") for the Byzantines: Erzurum ("Arzan of the Romans"), Rumelia ("Land of the Romans"), and Rumiye-i Suğra ("Little Rome", the region of Amasya and Sivas).
Theonymy helps develop an understanding of the function and societal views of particular gods and may help understand the origins of a society's language.
Linguistic variants Greek: Dorotheos (Δωρόθεος) Latin: Dorotheus English: Dorotheus Russian: Dorofei (Дорофей) Serbian: Dorotej (Доротеј) Czech: Dorota, Dora fem.
Non-fiction In political philosophy, for example, the 16th-century theorist Thomas Hobbes named his magnum opus Leviathan or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common-Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil, using the subtitle to explain the subject matter of the book.
He became deputy director of the Russian Language Institute in 1966 and served as the head of the institute's sector on etymology and onomastics.
Gringo in Argentina was used to refer to non-Spanish European immigrants who first established agricultural colonies in the country.
In modern Montenegro, Kosovo, Serbia and Macedonia, shkije, shkje, shkavell and similar terms acquired a pejorative connotation.
Below are listed the known different names for cities that are geographically or historically and culturally in Europe, as well as some smaller towns that are important because of their location or history.
Microsoft Windows allowed multiple applications to be associated with a given extension, and different actions were available for selecting the required application, such as a context menu offering a choice between viewing, editing or printing the file.
In 2021, the Dominican-American R&B singer DaniLeigh sparked controversy by releasing a snippet of a song called "Yellow Bone".
Majtán), 1985 Nazwy miejscowe Polski – słownik nazw miejscowych Polski, Nazwy miast Polski – słownik nazw miast Polski, 1987 Nazwiska Polaków.
Psychologist Carl Jung wrote in his 1960 book Synchronicity that there was a "sometimes quite grotesque coincidence between a man's name and his peculiarities".
Amenirdis (or Amonardis; masculine ỉmn-ỉr-dỉ-sw – Amenirdisu, feminine ỉmn-ỉr-dỉ-st – Amenirdiset; gendered endings were mostly not pronounced by the time the name was popular) is an ancient Egyptian name meaning "he/she was given by Amun".
Etymology "High" is usually considered a reference to a social class system in which skin color (and associated ancestries) is a major factor, placing those of lighter skin (with more white ancestry) at the top and those of darker skin at the bottom.
Feast day The feast day of Raphael was included for the first time in the General Roman Calendar in 1921, for celebration on October 24.
History The Encyclopædia Britannica says that the term was allegedly invented by columnist Franklin P.
It became popular in Israel due to a character in a series of novels for young teenagers by author Hadas Leibowitz and due to its use in the Israeli song Achoti Haktana or My Little Sister.
Iggy or Iggie is a unisex name and it is often a short form of the Roman Latin names Ignatia (feminine) and Ignatius (masculine), or their derivatives in other European languages.
This use is also a pars pro toto, since the region includes not only the historic county of Flanders where the Dutch dialect (West) Flemish is spoken, but also Limburg and the historic region of Brabant, where respectively the Dutch dialects Limburgish and Brabantian are spoken.
The first migration resulted in Mycenean Greek, an archaic Greek language which appears in Linear B syllabic inscriptions and the second resulted in the Dorian dialect which displaced the Arcadocypriot dialect that seems to be closest to the Mycenean Greek.
Diagonal streets are given directional suffixes based on whether their angle is more vertical or more horizontal, and their numbering corresponds with the rest of the grid.
Słownik historyczno-etymologiczny, 1991 References Short obituary in English Kazimierz Rymut (1935 – 2006) Archived 2016-10-18 at the Wayback Machine, Aleksandra Cieślikowa, Instytut Języka Polskiego PAN w Krakowie.
[Выступление при открытии Конференции по проблемам славянской исторической лексикологии и лексикографии, 3-6 нояб.
He was a full member of the Russian Geographical Society (1977) and an Academician of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences (2007).
mid-16th century BC), royal queen of Thutmose I, and mother of queen and later, pharaoh, Hatshepsut Other royalty Ahmose (18th dynasty) (fl.
Mikhail Viktorovich Gorbanevsky (Russian: Михаи́л Ви́кторович Горбане́вский; 21 May 1953 – 20 September 2025) was a Soviet and Russian linguist.
These viruses, known as companion viruses, attach themselves in such a way that they are executed when the original file is requested.
Modern Mugat are now settled and work in diverse occupations including in education, factories, business and more.
Under Microsoft's DOS and Windows, extensions such as EXE, COM or BAT indicate that a file is a program executable.
The term mostly used to describe someone who was a foreigner to both the Byzantines and their state was ethnikós (Greek: ἐθνικός), a term which originally described non-Jews or non-Christians, but had lost its religious meaning.
It is often a nickname, but from the 16th century it has sometimes been a given name in its own right for males and, less commonly, females.
Les goddams (sometimes les goddems or les goddons) is an obsolete ethnic slur historically used by the French to refer to the English, based on their frequent profanities.
The female form is אריאלה (transliterated as Ariela, Ariella, or the alternative English and French spelling Arielle).
The preposition is not used anymore in French, but remains still nowadays in other Langues d'oïl such as the Walloon language with dilé (close to) and adlé (among).
Regional usage Argentina The word gringo is mostly used in rural areas following the original Spanish meaning.
Willy or Willie is a masculine, male given name, often a diminutive form of William or Wilhelm, and occasionally a nickname.
Libby as a feminine given name is typically a diminutive form of Elizabeth, which is less commonly spelled 'Libbie' or 'Libi'.
The Spanish and Italian Fran is more common for men, while the English name is mostly used for women.
1788), Dutch painter Surname Frédéric Frans (born 1989), Belgian footballer Jeffrey Frans (born 1952), South African cricketer Joe Frans (curler) (born 1975), Canadian curler Joe Frans (politician) (born 1963), Swedish politician Fictional characters Frans J.
It is derived from the Old English puca, referring to a mischievous household spirit or nature sprite.
The Tiffany problem or Tiffany effect refers to the issue where a historical or realistic fact seems anachronistic or unrealistic to modern audiences of historical fiction, despite being accurate.
Историческая и этимологическая лексикография // Теория и практика русской исторической лексикографии.
Matun A tanna mentioned in a baraita as the author of an aggadic teaching, which elsewhere is ascribed to Dosetai b.
The term Frangistan was still in use in the time of the Ottoman Empire, in sources as late as the 17th century.
List of praise names "Dicko" or "Dikko": All members of the Jelgobe noble lineage, part of the Jelgooji Fulani, are granted this name.
"Kur etnikët tregojnë: SHQA-u ndër shqiptarë" [What Denominations Indicate: SHQA-U Amongst Albanians].
The term ascribed to them in Anglo-Norman blazon (the language of English heraldry) is maure, though they are also sometimes called moore, blackmoor, blackamoor or negro.
A praise name is a figurative or descriptive name that is given to either a person, animal, clan, deity, or inanimate object.
The survival of the Empire in the East assured an active role of the emperor in the affairs of the Church.
Dresang (1941–2014), American professor of Library Science Eliza Bisbee Duffey (1838–1898), American painter, author, newspaper editor and printer, spiritualist and feminist Eliza Hamilton Dunlop (1796–1880), Irish-Australian poet and songwriter Eliza Ann Dupuy (ca.
late-16th century BC), daughter of Pharaoh Tao and probably Queen Ahhotep I Ahmose-Meritamon (17th dynasty) (fl.
List of people Notable people with the given name: Medieval Saint Ansgar (801 – 865), Archbishop of Hamburg-Bremen who was active in the Christianization of Scandinavia Anscar I of Ivrea (d.
During the Muslim invasion of Central Asia in the 8th-century, the Turks of that region started using täžik to refer to the invading Muslim forces, which besides Arabs, also included Persians native to the middle part of the Zagros Mountains and the region of Fars.
According to researcher Paul Riesman, Dicko as a praise name "suggests fierceness, resourcefulness, and self-sufficieny".
The Franks themselves spoke West Germanic dialects related to modern German and Dutch, but there are very few surviving examples of this language.
1356–1382), protos of Mount Athos Dorotheus I of Athens, metropolitan of Athens from 1388 to 1392 Dorotheos II of Trebizond, metropolitan of Trebizond from 1472 Dorotheos of Ohrid, 15th-century bishop Dorotheus IV Ibn Al-Ahmar (d.
Examples As an example, consider the phrase "The 43rd President of the United States of America": while the 43rd President of the United States is actually George W.
1560–1613), Iranian general and statesman of Georgian origin Surname Javad Allahverdi, Iranian football player See also Alaverdyan Allahverdiyev == References ==
The name can refer to: People Religious figures Pope Leo, 14 popes Pope Leo XIV (born 1955), incumbent pope List of saints named Leo Leo of Constantinople (fl.
The English version is followed by variants in other languages, in alphabetical order by name, and then by any historical variants and former names.
In 2023, Judd competed in the seventh season of The Amazing Race Australia with her sister, Kate Twigley.
She was the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) at the University of Greenwich and Chair of the University Schools Trust.
Clay Gonzalez entitled "Our Place." During her first year helming the university, President Stewart Gonzalez launched several high-profile projects.
Walker was awarded Fellowship of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 1986, and appointed MBE in the 1997 Birthday Honours for services to Healthcare whilst working at St George's, University of London.
Smith, Edward, The Story of the English Jacobins : Being an Account of the Persons Implicated in the Charges of High Treason, 1794.
"Utility of ultrasound in the assessment of swallowing and laryngeal function: A rapid review and critical appraisal of the literature", International Journal of Language and Communication Disorders 56 (1), 174–204.
She has appeared in the Discovery television series "The Baby Human"; the NOVA series "The Mind"; "The Power of Ideas" on PBS; and "The Secret Life of the Brain," also on PBS.
She experimented with different glazes and decorating materials, experiencing technical difficulties in her early works.
Phyllis Schneider is a developmental psycholinguist in the University of Alberta Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders at the University of Alberta Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine.
The model shows that infants use their computational abilities to "crack" the speech code and that infants' social skills play an important role in learning.
He passed his Abitur at the Graues Kloster in Berlin and studied medicine at the Universities of Berlin and Heidelberg.
She was director of the Tucson Little Theatre in Arizona, the Brattle Theatre in Massachusetts, the Kalamazoo Civic Theatre in Michigan, and, from 1952 to 1961, managing director of the Manistee Summer Theatre.
In 2011, Judd joined the Nine Network as host of Victorian-based travel program Postcards and continued in the role until 2020.
(An earlier Belgian king, King Leopold III, had a Belgian second wife, Lilian, Princess of Réthy, who was not given the title of queen).
Throughout her career, Chapman has received major federal, state, and private research support to advance the treatment of veterans, sports-related brain injuries, concussions, autism, schizophrenia, adolescent reasoning, and brain development, among others.
in speech-language pathology from the University of Pittsburgh School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences.
Career Dornan was the first speech pathology graduate at the University of Queensland, and the first speech pathologist to work at the Royal Brisbane Hospital.
His father was Sir Richard Paget, 1st Baronet, a Conservative member of parliament; his mother was Caroline Isabel Surtees, the daughter of Henry Surtees, another MP, of County Durham.
Dimity Dornan AO is a speech pathologist, author, social entrepreneur, bionics advocate, researcher, and businesswoman in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
Helikopter, Tak trafiłem do Słowian/So kam ich unter die Slawen, prose, translation by Marek Śnieciński Wrocław 2016, Afront, Oświęcim.
Zangari (Eds.), Practically speaking: Language, literacy, and academic development for students with AAC needs (pp.
During World War I, Gutzmann ran a treatment centre for traumatized soldiers who had developed speech and voice disorders.
Helms-Estabrooks was a co-founder of Academy of Neurologic Communication Disorders and Sciences (ANCDS), and served as president from 2003 until 2004.
Prelock was inspired to pursue a career in speech pathology after her younger brother, James, was born with Down syndrome.
She later made SpeechVive's remote calibration software and training available free in order to make it more accessible for speech-language pathologists and their patients.
Her research elucidates novel approaches to maximize cognitive function in people with healthy brains as well as those with brain injury, stroke, ADHD, autism, schizophrenia, substance abuse, and progressive brain diseases like Alzheimer's disease.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; Haneman, Frederick T.
Publications "Die Laryngoskopie und Rhinoskopie mit Einschluss der Allgemeinen Diagnostik und Therapie," Berlin, 1890 Die Nasen-, Rachen- und Kehlkopfkrankheiten, Leipzig 1894 Die Bauchrednerkunst (with H.
A travelling scholarship is awarded in her name to a student undertaking speech therapy studies at the University of Queensland.
From 1969 to 1998, she was director of the Easter Seal Rehabilitation Center in Wheeling, and served three years as head of the West Virginia Easter Seal Society, and on the executive board of the National Easter Seal Society.
Light has been the principal investigator on more than 20 federally funded research grants to improve outcomes for individuals who use AAC (totaling more than $10 million).
Recognition Kuhl was one of six scientists invited to the White House in 1997 to make a presentation at President and Mrs.
Birgitta Sigrid Maria Sahlén (born 29 January 1953) is a Swedish speech and language pathologist who is a professor at Lund University.
In 1982, she was presented with an honorary Doctor of Law degree at Wheeling University's commencement ceremonies.
The Duke resolved to find some way to manage his stammer, and engaged Logue in 1926 after being introduced to him by Lord Stamfordham.
Career Robbins holds teaching positions at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and serves as associate director of research at the William S.
She was a key member of the Sri Lankan Cleft Lip and Palate Project, and was Assistant Director of the Eurocleft Speech Group.
Kleffner Clinical Career Award An award for excellence in speech-language pathology has been presented annually in his name since 1986.
Bronwyn Hemsley is an Australian speech pathologist, head of speech pathology at the University of Technology Sydney (UTS) and co-lead of the UTS Disability Research Network.
In 1922, he authored The Heart of the Anti-Vivisectionist which criticized arguments of the anti-vivisection movement.
Rosemary Sage is a British professor of education with a focus on communication and special educational needs.
F.A.N.-Verlag, Leipzig 2000 Mitternachtsgesänge, Die verlorenen Lieder des Jooschen Engelke 1918 – 1962, Participation, 2010, Conträr Music Chance For The Link Of A Chain, CD, DICE, 2017, Dieter Kalka - Bandoneon L.E.IPZIGER LIEDERSZENE der 1980er Jahre, CD/DVD and book.
Frankel was one of many names mentioned as a potential candidate for the New York's 29th congressional district election, 2010.
When his future wife caught his eye, "I saw someone who was incredibly attractive and pretty drunk, and that was my sweet spot!", he explained.
Government officials who considered him to be the most dangerous man in Britain continued to hound him even after his acquittal.
After graduating from boarding school in Margate, he spent a year in Germany before apprenticing at bicycle company Bluemel Brothers for three years.
He was also known for working, in a primary role, that established the importance of research into the social and behavioural aspects of illness in childhood.
His diagnostic acumen and therapeutic skill with voice disordered cases have earned the respect of several ear, nose and throat specialists who increasingly referred cases of this nature to him and the speech therapists that he had trained.
Other books Tan's third novel, The Hundred Secret Senses, was a departure from the first two novels, in focusing on the relationships between sisters, inspired, partly, by one of the half-siblings Tan sponsored to the United States.
On May 10, Van der Sloot accepted the amount of $15,000 by wire transfer from Birmingham to his account in the Netherlands, following a cash payment of $10,000 that was videotaped by undercover investigators in Aruba.
Her father who was a draftsman did not approve of his only daughter having a minds of her own, but that is who she was.
During Prelock's studies, she worked on a National Institutes of Health (NIH) fellowship and balanced her academic responsibilities with raising her young son, incorporating him into her research on cognition and communication.
Diagnosing poor co-ordination between the Duke's larynx and thoracic diaphragm, Logue prescribed a daily hour of vocal exercises.
In 1991, she became an assistant professor in the communication sciences and disorders program at the University of Kentucky.
Smith, William Tyler (1846a), "(The Treatment of Stammering by Unqualified Practitioners)", The Lancet, Vol.47, No.1185, (16 May 1846), pp.557-558.
One use was for voice actors to be able to have an exact copy, or clone, of their voice to use in their work.
"Aphasia with predominantly subcortical lesion sites: description of three capsular/putaminal aphasia syndromes".
She was initially chair of the Department of Communication Studies, and later associate dean of the College of Arts and Sciences.
Byng was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 1991 and was awarded an OBE in 2005.
Early life Elizabeth Catherine Molphy (later Usher) was born on 16 November 1911 in Lilydale, Victoria.
Madeline Esther "Madge" Skelly (May 9, 1903 – May 27, 1993), later Madge Skelly-Hakanson, was an American actress, playwright, director, college professor, speech pathologist and audiologist.
As a result of her research, she was elected a fellow of the American Speech–Language–Hearing Association and received the Eve Kassirer Award for Outstanding Achievement.
Education Hemsley obtained a Bachelor of Applied Science in speech pathology from the University of Sydney in 1988.
Diagnostik, Berlin 1899 Prophylaxe der Hals- und Nasenkrankheiten, Munich 1900 Intonationsstörungen und Stimmverlust, Berlin 1902 References External links Works by or about Theodor Simon Flatau at the Internet Archive --
Enderby was chair and Vice President of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists, of which she is a Fellow, in 1993–1994 and President of the Society for Research and Rehabilitation from 1994 to 1996.
She was made Duchess of Brabant and a Princess of Belgium on 8 November 1999 (published on 13 November 1999 and effective from 4 December 1999).
Ripich joined the faculty of Case Western Reserve University in 1982, and was elevated to a full professorship in 1994.
McAuliffe's research has been funded by the Health Research Council of New Zealand, and she has served on the HRC grant assessment committee and on the Canterbury Medical Research Foundation scientific assessment committee.
Nan Bernstein Ratner is a professor in the Department of Hearing and Speech Sciences at the University of Maryland, College Park.
She was posthumously inducted into the Association of Veterans Affairs Speech-Language Pathologists (AVASLP) Hall of Fame in 2002.
Hemsley has also been noted for her critical stance on gestalt language processing (GLP), a position that has been controversial within the autism community.
Karen Bryan OBE FRCSLT, is a speech therapist, and Vice Chancellor of York St John University since April 2020.
She has been invited to give presentations about resources for the treatment of communications disorders North America, Europe, China, and Korea Kuster organized and chaired ISAD Conference from 1998-2012.
Thinking that he was able to cure stammering, he sought wider experience in a provincial tour, and finally in 1827 settled in Regent Street, London.
She gained a master's degree in Communication Pathology in 1998 and, in 2018, a PhD in Behavioural Science and Health from UCL.
doi:10.1186/s13643-015-0077-4 Allen, J.E., Clunie, G.M., Slinger, C., Haines, J., Mossey-Gaston, C., Zaga, C.J., Scott, B., Wallace, S., and Govender, R.
Charles Sidney Bluemel (17 July 1884 – 17 December 1960) was a British–American psychiatrist and pioneer of speech pathology, best known for his research on stuttering.
On 13 June 1981, Wray became a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in recognition of her contribution to speech therapy in the 1981 Birthday Honours.
ISAD Conferences The ISAD Conference is a yearly event and copies of the entire conference from 1998-2026 are archived.
In 1955 he succeeded Professor James Spence on his death, to conduct research in the Department of Child Health, becoming the first James Spence professor of child health.
In November 2019, alongside RCSLT President Nick Hewer, Gadhok was awarded an honorary degree by Plymouth Marjon University to mark the 25th anniversary of the speech and language therapy degree programme at the university.
On 26 February 1952, Logue wrote to the late king's wife, Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother: No man ever worked as hard as he did, and achieved such a grand result.
Her research was published in academic journals, including the Journal of Speech and Hearing Disorders, American Journal of Nursing, Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, and The American Journal of Surgery.
In October 2009, the Dalhousie University Theatre Department produced the first staging of Thelwall's 1801 melodrama The Fairy of the Lake, as a complement to the John Thelwall conference being hosted at the time by the University's English Department.
He was a Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of London and Royal College of Surgeons of England.
In 1926 the University of the Witwatersrand awarded him the degree Master of Arts with distinction for his research in phonetics and general linguistics.
Hemsley won postgraduate teaching funds in 2019 and the Faculty Dean's Award for Research Excellence at UTS in 2021.
Early life Gadhok was born in India, the youngest of three sisters, but spent the early part of her childhood in Nairobi, Kenya.
Bryan was Head of the School of Health and Social Care at the University of Surrey before moving, in 2013, to the position of Pro Vice-Chancellor for its Faculty of Health and Wellbeing at Sheffield Hallam University.
The experience of a fellow-collegian who stammered is said to have arrested his attention, and he left Cambridge without taking a degree in order to devote himself to the study and cure of what he called 'defective utterance'.
McAuliffe then joined the faculty of the Department of Communication Disorders at the University of Canterbury, rising to full professor.
Henningsson, Gunilla; Kuehn, David P.; Sell, Debbie; Sweeney, Triona; Trost-Cardamone, Judith E.; Whitehill, Tara L.
Della Money is a speech and language therapist and Chairperson of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.
The product, sold through a company called Swallow Solutions, is an oral mouthpiece which uses sensors to measure pressure at five locations on the tongue.
She is a consultant clinical academic speech and language therapist at University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
As Morley's practice expanded, she was obliged to involve parents in the treatment of their child's speech and language disorder to manager her bulging caseload.
TRZYNAŚCIE WIZYT, prose with paintings of Halina Kozioł, German-Polish, Edition Beulenspiegel, AndreBuchverlag, Lengenfeld 2024, ISBN 978-3-949143-40-3.
Camberley, Surrey: Makaton Vocabulary Development Project "The Makaton Vocabulary: From Britain to the Antipodes", Australasian Journal of Special Education, 8:2, November 1984, 8-11, DOI: 10.1017/S1030011200021187 Walker, M (1978).
An exploratory study (2000) Storytelling from pictures using the Edmonton Narrative Norms Instrument (2006) Who does what to whom: Introduction of referents in children's storytelling from pictures (2010) References External links University of Alberta webpage
Since 2008, Sage has taught at the College of Teachers (now The Chartered College of Teaching) and served as dean of academic affairs until 2014.
He was the son of a silk merchant, Joseph Thelwall, who died in 1772 leaving the family in economic distress.
His work with William Landau and Harold Klawans advanced his career beyond regular work in a neurology clinic.
In 2018 she was named as one of the "50 Greatest Gloucestershire Women of all time" by Gloucestershire Live.
Smith, William Tyler (1846b), "(Remarks on Quackery)", The Lancet, Vol.47, No.1191, (27 June 1846), p.710.
He is said to have been educated at Winchester, Hampshire; and to have entered Trinity College, Cambridge in 1822, with the intention of becoming a minister of the church of England.
The Queen is the honorary president of Child Focus, a foundation for missing and sexually exploited children.
"A comparison of three approaches to delivering a speech and language therapy service to people with learning disabilities", European Journal of Disorders of Communication 32 (4), Money, D.
Danielle Newberry Ripich (born March 4, 1945) is a retired American academic who served as president of the University of New England, Maine, from 2006 to 2017.
The Enderby case led the then Labour government to institute a review of pay and grading scales throughout the health service in the form of the Agenda for Change.
In 1968 she founded AFASIC, the Association for all speech impaired children, a charity for children with speech problems.
Bryan was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 2011, and awarded an OBE in the 2018 New Year Honours for services to Higher Education.
Her dissertation was titled, Cumulative Effects of Syntactic and Phonological Complexity on Children's Language Production.
Tan appeared as herself in the third episode of Season 12 of The Simpsons, "Insane Clown Poppy." Tan's work has been adapted into several other media.
Although he was largely discouraging, she began to teach herself pottery, beginning at 5.30am and working for two hours until Speer came to work at 7.30 am.
Court initially studied to be a dentist at University of Birmingham, but switched after three years into Medicine in 1936, winning the Russell memorial prize in neurology.
American Association for the Advancement of Science American Speech Language and Hearing Association American Society of Aging American Speech-Language-Hearing Association A.W.A.R.E.
In this role, she collaborated with colleague Jeff Haddad to study how playing specially created games could improve a patient's movement, speech, and overall quality of life.
It is around this time that she also gained membership of the British Society of Speech Therapists; its members were admitted to the College of Speech Therapists founded in 1945.
She has explored how speech production changes due to accent, ageing and neurological disease and injury.
In 2003 she was appointed as an assistant professor at Northeastern University, and was promoted to professor in 2014.
Professional career Elizabeth Molphy returned to Warwick, Queensland, to live with her parents after completing her course and a position as a speech therapist became available with Dr Basil Stafford’s Psychiatric Clinic, a division of the Brisbane Mental Hospital, in George Street, Brisbane.
Sir Richard Arthur Surtees Paget, 2nd Baronet (13 January 1869 – 23 October 1955) was a British barrister and amateur scientific investigator, who specialised in speech science and the origin of speech.
Queen Consort King Albert II announced on 3 July 2013 that he would abdicate in favour of Philippe on 21 July 2013.
On July 5, 2005, following the initial release of the Kalpoes, Twitty alleged, "Two suspects were released yesterday who were involved in a violent crime against my daughter", and referred to the Kalpoes as "criminals".
Since the mid 2000s she has led development of computer systems that can generate a naturalistic synthetic voice.
As a child she was tutored at home before spending two years at Araparera School after it opened in 1893.
Travis was one of the original 25 charter members for what is now known as the American Speech–Language–Hearing Association.
In 1999, she joined the Medical University of South Carolina as dean of the College of Health Professions.
She worked at Liverpool Hope University in 2007, where she taught communication in education, and at the University of Leicester, where she was a senior lecturer.
In the late 1990s, she directed the speech research of the national UK Clinical Standards Advisory Group (CSAG) study in cleft lip and palate, and was subsequently a member of the National Cleft Implementation Group.
This has concentrated on the acquisition and impairment of speech, specifically prosody, in healthy speakers and those with neuromotor disorders.
He received the degree of Doctor of Medicine from the University of Berlin in 1887, with the dissertation Über das Stottern ("On Stuttering").
Career While in school, Tan worked several odd jobs—serving as a switchboard operator, carhop, bartender, and pizza maker—before starting a writing career.
In addition to physical exercises, which helped with patients' breathing, Logue's distinctive therapy emphasised humour, patience, and "superhuman sympathy".
In August 1977 Pierre de Villiers Pienaar suffered a massive stroke that left him paralysed and with no speech.
Ohio University Presidency In March 2023, Lori Stewart Gonzalez was unanimously elected by the Ohio University Board of Trustees to become the 23rd and first woman President in the institution's 219-year history.
As lexicographer in 1973, he was part of the group of authors that established the Afrikaans Explanatory Dictionary (Afrikaans Verklarende Woordeboek) alongside Prof M.S.B.
Background Phyllis Schneider is a developmental psycholinguist in the University of Alberta Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders in the Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine.
Communicative competence for individuals who require augmentative and alternative communication: A new definition for a new era of communication?.
In 2003 she received Australian of the Year for Queensland, and in 2010 the Suncorp Queenslander of the Year.
By 2013, Steele was promoted to Full professor by the University of Toronto, received the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal, and earned the CASLPA 2013 Mentorship Award.
Growing up, her family was involved in the pottery industry: her uncles owned the Amalgamated Brick and Pipe Company, while her brothers established a brickworks in 1902 at New Lynn - with guidance from Gardner, they later expanded into domesticware and became known as Crown Lynn.
However, he decided to take a contract with an engineering firm some 2,000 kilometres (1,200 mi) westward in Kalgoorlie, Western Australia, installing an electricity supply at a gold mine.
The book is now into its 6th edition, most recently updated and re-published in 2001 by Lesley Mathieson.
Amateur scientist Educated as a chemist and having worked as a physicist, Paget held a deep interest in various fields of science.
She is currently non-executive Director of South Yorkshire Health Authority and chairperson of the Regional Older Peoples´ Task Force.
He was appointed as the head of the department of psychology in July 1937 but resigned without reason a few months later in January 1938.
Addressing the literacy demands of the curriculum for conventional and more advanced readers and writers who require AAC.
Janice Murray is a Speech Therapist and Professor at Manchester Metropolitan University, specialising in Augmentative and Alternative Communication.
However, soon she recognised the benefits of this and became an exponent of parental involvement in speech therapy.
Life Travis was born June 23, 1896, on a farm in Chase County, Nebraska, and raised near Champion, Nebraska.
In 1957 Greene published The Voice and its Disorders, which represented a major contribution to the clinical assessment and treatment of voice disorders and was amongst the few texts available on the subject at the time.
"Initially," Chris Judd admitted, "I was just thinking, 'This girl’s a belter, let's run with this.'" Career In September 2004 (the following year), Judd received considerable media attention due to her wearing a revealing red Tarvydas dress to the Brownlow Medal presentation.
In 1974 she served on the statewide advisory board on implementing the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
Schneider has published in the Journal of Linguistic Anthropology, Child Language Teaching and Therapy, and First Language.
13 wizyt, prose, translation by Agnieszka Haupe, Bukowno 2022 Libertas, Jahrbuch der Meinungsfreiheit, LIT-Verlag, Münster 2022.
Court was awarded the prestigious Nils Rosén von Rosenstein medal of the Swedish Paediatric Association.
As a lieutenant colonel, he was in charge of the psychological services of several hospitals in the European theater.
Court took a specific interest in the common problems of childhood, including intussusception, Upper respiratory tract infection and the first to take an interest in speech disorders, and whose collaboratory efforts with Speech therapist led to a new university department of speech.
Sage has been an outside examiner at several universities and has given key speeches at international conferences worldwide.
Gardner became interested in pottery when English potter William Speer came to work at New Lynn on a newly installed pottery wheel.
Marriage and children Jonkvrouw Mathilde d'Udekem d'Acoz met Prince Philippe, Duke of Brabant while playing tennis in 1996.
Early life Rosemary Margaret Front was born in Wheeling, West Virginia, the daughter of Peter Front and Mary Margaret Latimer Front.
"Viability and Effectiveness of Teletherapy for Pre-School Children with Special Needs", International Journal of Language & Communication Disorders 36, 321–326.
(editor.), Preface: Erich Loest, bilingual, Verlag Die Scheune, Dresden and wydawnictwo "test" Lublin 1999.
Academic career McAuliffe completed a PhD titled An investigation of articulation and speech rate in Parkinson's disease at the University of Queensland.
McAuliffe is co-director, with Catherine Theys, of the Speech-Language Neuroscience Lab at Canterbury.
Naeser, M A; Alexander, M P; Helm-Estabrooks, N; Levine, H L; Laughlin, S A; Geschwind, N (1982-01-01).
Kuhl's work has played a major role in demonstrating how early exposure to language alters the brain.
Since 2012 Murray has been on the Research Committee for the International Society for Augmentative and Alternative Communication and is the Chair-elect of Council for the International Society for Augmentative and Alternative Communication.
At the University of Maryland, Ratner founded The LEAP Preschool Program which was cited for distinction by MAHE and US Department of Education (1997).
Front survived polio in adolescence, spent time in an iron lung during her recovery, and used a wheelchair.
He completed his habilitation in 1905 on the basis of his work Über die Atmungsstörungen beim Stottern ("On Respiratory Disorders and Stuttering").
She has been a visiting professor at Nara Women's University in Japan and at the University of Havana in Cuba.
In July 2023, Gadhok was made an honorary Doctor of Civil Law by Newcastle University, in recognition of her contribution to the national and international development of speech and language therapy and her efforts to increase equality and diversity within the speech and language therapy profession.
Research Chapman’s cognitive research has laid the theoretical framework and empirical foundation for the development of measurements of higher order reasoning [Test of Strategic Learning] and the development of brain training programs for children and adults.
Sir Richard's daughter, Pamela Paget (later Lady Glenconner), was often a subject of his experiments.
In 1998, Frankel won the Democratic nomination for Lieutenant Governor of New York in the 1998 statewide Primary Election.
Alison Patricia McCullough is a speech and language therapist and the current head of the Northern Ireland office of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists.
She secured a federal grant to develop a virtual clinic for supporting individuals with disabilities in rural areas and served as training director on the project.
Usher petitioned for the establishment of a speech therapy course at the University of Queensland, to help provide a facility to train future speech therapists.
While serving in this new role, Huber continued to co-direct the Center for Research on Brain, Behavior, and NeuroRehabilitation and was elected a fellow of the National Academy of Inventors for her creation of SpeechVive.
Following the 2018–19 academic year, Huber succeeded Dorothy Teegarden as the associate dean for research in the College of Health and Human Sciences.
"Satisfaction for All: A Framework for Assessing Life Satisfaction for All People with Learning Disabilities", British Journal of Learning Difficulties 27 (2), 52-57.
The name of the programme is derived from the first letters of the names of the three therapists who helped devise the programme in the 1970s: Margaret Walker, Katharine Johnston and Tony Cornforth.
She is the founder of the Hear and Say Centre for Deaf Children on 6 July 1992 and helped initiate newborn hearing screening in Queensland hospitals, the first such program in Australia.
Smith, and Rita Solovitz Fust) "Rethinking stroke: Aphasic patients talk back" (1975) Personal life Skelly married twice.
2012, ISAD 15, A Voice and Something to Say 2011, ISAD 14, Sharing Stories - Changing Perceptions 2010, ISAD 13, People Who Stutter, INSPIRE!
Ken and Elizabeth Usher moved back to Australia in 1956 and she became the first speech therapist to work full-time at the Queensland Spastic Centre (Cerebral Palsy Alliance).
She is also a member of the editorial board for Evidence-based Communication Assessment and Intervention, Journal of Fluency Disorders, and Journal of Communication Disorders.
In 2014, she was named the recipient of the Outstanding Commercialization Award for Purdue University Faculty and a Faculty Fellow for Entrepreneurship.
Between 1940 and 1945 people were becoming increasingly aware of speech therapy and the profession gained more recognition.
'Communicating the unknown: descriptions of pictured scenes and events presented on video by children and adolescents using aided communication and their peers using natural speech'.
Then she joined as a National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the University of Queensland from 2009 to 2012.
While there, she launched an online learning education course titled An Evidence Based Approach to Dysphasia Intervention in 2004.
She has never released copies of the alleged statement, though she characterizes them as admissions of "sexual assault" However, Vinda de Sousa, former Holloway/Twitty family attorney from Aruba understood that the admission may have been for consensual sex.
Education and early career Steele earned her master's degree and PhD from the University of Toronto.
Her research interests are in workforce development and the effectiveness of interventions for communication disorders associated with stroke, dementia and other neurological conditions.
"Makaton Vocabulary: Teaching Sign Language to the Deaf Mentally Handicapped", Apex, 2, 23-25 == References ==
Career Byng was the Head of Division of Language and Communication Science at City, University of London from 1993–2002 and is named as one of the "City's Extraordinary Women".
That said, people who embraced Aqua's 'Barbie Girl', Cleopatra's 'Romeo And Juliet', and Los del Rio's 'Macarena' will be lining up for this latest slice of energetic pop.
Two months after I read it, I began 'Robbie', about a sympathetic robot, and that was the start of my positronic robot series.
The film also had a limited VHS release exclusively through the Disney Movie Club, prior to the last VHS releases of Disney films in 2007.
The distinctive feature of all WarioWare games is that they are collections of short, simple "microgames" presented in quick succession.
In a 2004 manga of Tetsuwan Atom written by Akira Himekawa, the plot, as well as the character designs, loosely followed that of the 2003 anime series.
According to Filoni, Lucas believed a character's intentions when using the Force—their "will to be selfless or selfish"—is what distinguishes light and dark sides.
Baxter wears glasses and has a surprisingly deep laugh, despite having a somewhat high-pitched voice.
The outcome of the simulated war will determine whether societies are allowed to run artificial Hells, virtual afterlives in which the mind-states of the dead are tortured.
Part 4: Diamond Is Unbreakable With Part 4, Araki said that he moved away from "muscle men" as they fell out of popularity with his readers, and he wanted to focus more on fashion.
In 2016, McIntyre and Fahy were awarded the first portion of the Brain Preservation Technology Prize, the Small Animal Brain Preservation Prize, by the Brain Preservation Foundation for the successful cryopreservation of a whole mouse brain.
Peabody ("Sherman, set the Wayback machine to..."), Sherman would set the Wayback controls to a time and place of historical importance, and by walking through a door in the Wayback machine, they would be instantly transported there.
He proposed his gravitator as propulsion to General Motors executives in 1930 and as ship propulsion while he was at the Naval Research Laboratory in 1932.
Astrophysicist Jeanne Cavelos says in The Science of Star Wars that explaining the Force is particularly difficult because "it does so many different things".
It wasn't based on any albums, but it was possibly a pilot episode for another planned series that never came to fruition (most likely because it was rejected for being too similar to "Kids Incorporated").
Reception In Britain, the book was successful and went through several editions, for instance, as a Puffin book.
It borrows from JK Rowling, John Hughes, Joss Whedon, and any number of comic books and yet still stands on its own.
In fact, no plane is hijacked as the villains of the series were killed back in 1984 in the godown shootout.
The Smash Martians were designed for the advertising agency Boase Massimi Pollitt by Sian Vickers and Chris Wilkins, also responsible for the four-wheeled red telephone used to advertise Direct Line, the GoCompare opera singer, Sheilas' Wheels commercials and Mr.
The story was a dark pastiche of the Fantastic Four, with astronauts being mutated by cosmic rays, only for in Jurgens' words, "a tragic, rather than heroic, result".
The atmosphere inside would be habitable by humans, while at the same time allowing permissible objects to pass through the barrier A walkable surface between two points without the necessity of building a bridge.
However, the passage of time outside the membrane means that all life on Earth will end in a few decades of subjective Earth time, when the Sun's expansion will make that region of the Solar System uninhabitable.
Dadabo noted that he was guided by project lead Jason Jones and lead writer Joseph Staten during the recording process, and that he received adequate context behind specific lines and scenes to emote his character.
Mitra is jubilant and demands celebration and since doctors assume he is mentally unstable, they sedate him.
In the end credits at 5 pm in 1984, it is 22 years Das from the year 1984 walks into the warehouse and picks the unburnt portion of the papers.
While still alive, they enter the Pavulean Hell on a mission to reveal the existence and details of this Hell to the general population.
She first appeared in the Valentine's Day–themed episode "Looove Bug", in which she first moved into Polieville as Olie and Billy, who competed with each other for Pollie's affections, immediately fell in love (via being shot by the Love Bug) with her.
It has been recently revealed that his plan to destroy the Magic World is due to the fact that it is already at risk of collapsing, and should it do so without warning, its entire inhabitants would suddenly be thrust into Mars's inhospitable landscape, cut off completely from earth.
Written fiction William Shakespeare invoked a concept resembling teleportation in The Tempest (1610–1611).
A 1957 story called "The 100 Batarangs of Batman!" (Detective Comics #244, June 1957) included an "origin story" for the batarang, which was given to Batman by circus performer Lee Collins.
Setsuna Sakurazaki Voiced by: Yu Kobayashi (Japanese) Dana Schultes (Series 1) Cherami Leigh (Series 2) (English) Played by: Haruki Ichikawa (1-19, 26) Aina Nishiaki (20-25) Setsuna Sakurazaki (桜咲 刹那, Sakurazaki Setsuna) is student fifteen in the class.
There is another alien faction at work, however, represented on Earth by small spider-like robots that recruit human agents through some form of mind control.
Succeeding in both, Spark is talked out of his original plan by the Librarian and made to recognize the friends he has made among the crew.
260] At the beginning of the series, the group's members are Dracule Mihawk, Sir Crocodile, Donquixote Doflamingo, Bartholomew Kuma, Gecko Moria, Boa Hancock, and Jimbei.[ch.
(A similar theme is explored in Fred Saberhagen's Berserker novels.) Cultural reference It features a character, Lawrence Van Cott, that is modelled on science fiction author Larry Niven, whose full name is "Laurence van Cott Niven".
That tool became the standard in the subsequent animated series, comics, films, and video games such as Batman: Arkham Asylum and in Batman: Arkham City a more advanced version called the Grapnel was introduced which could be used to launch Batman into the air to glide using kinetic energy.
Writing for Destructoid, Chris Carter found the space in between levels to be filler rather than a unique exploration feature, only used to hide collectible items.
A student of philosophy, he quotes and/or refers to Hume, William James, Nietzsche and especially Kierkegaard.
The facility was reportedly partly inspired by the work of Andre Geim (who later shared the 2010 Nobel Prize in Physics for his research on graphene) and Michael Berry, who both shared the Ig Nobel Prize in Physics in 2000 for the magnetic levitation of a frog.
When the terraforming is complete, Perihelion and its counterparts in other nations launch crewed colonization missions.
Each episode of the cartoon series included a short segment "Peabody's Improbable History" in which the Wayback Machine was used by the segment's main characters, Mr.
The consequence of the negative results of those experiments (which are in good agreement with the predictions of general relativity) is, that every theory which contains shielding effects like Le Sage's theory of gravitation, must reduce those effects to an undetectable level.
Powers and abilities Indigo possesses an analytical computer-like brain, enabling her to think and perceive information at great speeds.
A number of Asuna's character traits and design are inspired by Naru Narusegawa from Love Hina, Ken Akamatsu's previous work, including her attraction to an older man/teacher, and violent personality towards the protagonist.
Roger Moore era (1973–1985) Live and Let Die Rolex Submariner This specially modified Submariner has a powerful electromagnet that, in theory, can even deflect a bullet.
This version lost his powers after a group of white supremacists led by Captain Nazi activated their Great Darkness Engine to neutralize most of the world's metahumans.
Wun cures Jason of multiple sclerosis elevating him into a new form of life which the Martians term the "fourth stage" and extending his potential lifespan.
Humbert and Manders get into many adventures, the most memorable of which is a kite-flying expedition.
Initially, the bellows-covered legs were articulated, and were moved separately by the actor inside.
Jupiter brains are related to the idea of the hypothetical material computronium, which could be enmassed to sizes of entire planets and even stars.
The Transformers introduced a character named Skywarp who was capable of teleporting from place to place.
During such visits, the historical figures and situations encountered are always distorted in some crucial way.
This Robot was of a more humanoid appearance, though missing its arms and legs (which were presumably in storage), and had shining round blue eyes in an otherwise featureless face.
The Resolute and the Robot soon jumped to the Robot's home system, where it and Will are eventually reunited after SAR's destruction.
A second single of the song was issued in 1983 with another Savelli song "Humanoïdes" (PB 61074); the lyrics were later translated in the English-language dub, retitled as "Fly with Me", this version was also sung by Virginia Vee.
Armoured Gideon is a comics character (and their eponymous story) who first appeared in British science fiction anthology 2000 AD.
Alpha is voiced by Eri Miyajima in the original Japanese version and by Jaclyn Thomas in the Funimation dub.
When Gideon attacks, he does so uttering the word "Annihilate!" In 2018 the character made a surprise return to 2000AD after nearly 25 years in the series "The Order".
For a review of the current experimental limits on possible gravitational shielding, see the survey article by Bertolami, et al.
Heroes of the City (Swedish: Stadens Hjältar) is a Swedish computer-animated television series for preschool children, with stories about friendship, sharing and caring.
He convinces Wario to help break the seal that was placed upon him by the other creatures of the world, with the promise of keeping any treasure Wario finds.
Bernstein (credited as Anne Bernstein), Mike Setaro, Dave Benjoya, Mike de Sève, Jymn Magon, Karen de Sève, Peter K.
Initially, the vacated fourth seat was to feature a rotating series of guest analysts, with Jimmy Johnson returning in Week 1.
Upon alerting his uncle to the package, Humbert is surprised to find that it contains a Type One Household Robot, designed to help around the home.
Wario is always doing stupid things and is really idiotic, so we thought him and the rest of the characters would be best for the game." Game & Wario, released in 2013, is a spin-off of the WarioWare series.
Virtual reality headset Used by James Bond for training and by Moneypenny for romancing Bond's virtual avatar.
The cryopreserved brain was rewarmed and no serious degradation was found to have occurred; the brain structure under electron microscopic evaluation after rewarming remained well-preserved.
Animation DC Animated Universe The batarang appears in the DC Animated Universe series Batman: The Animated Series, Batman Beyond, and Justice League.
Electrets In his 1976 paper, Electromagnetism and Gravitation, physicist Edward Teller discussed experimentation with electrets, or materials with a permanent electric dipole moment, near its transition point to discover the transition between dipole states.
Pandorum The TV series Lost in Space used a sleeper ship, the Jupiter II, intended to hold the crew for the five-and-a-half-year journey to Alpha Centauri.
Several gadgets from previous James Bond films are featured, including Rosa Klebb's stiletto knife shoe, the jetpack from Thunderball and the re-breather apparatus from Thunderball.
Back on Earth, Standish's campaign against the Indians is related in another History TV special, which also adds the new theory that the first Thanksgiving was haunted, much to Kyle's outrage.
In about June 2153, the Earth Starfleet ship Enterprise (NX-01) enters the Expanse to locate the Xindi.
Although he managed to rise to power by election, he does not respect the rules of democracy and dismisses the members of the council when they oppose his decisions.
As an adult, he preferred realistic stories that helped readers understand real science and history, like Robert Heinlein's "—And He Built a Crooked House—" and L.
The movie Interstellar features a spacecraft called the Endurance that can rotate on its central axis to create artificial gravity, controlled by retro thrusters on the ship.
Mike Lardas, of The Daily News called A Star-Wheeled Sky "marvelous sci-fi entertainment" and stated it "offer[ed] a fresh take on interstellar conflict".
It sold 66,692 copies within its first week on sale in Japan, which placed it at number one on the all-format sales chart.
In Japanese, she is voiced by Fairouz Ai in the anime and subsequent appearances, and Miyuki Sawashiro in All Star Battle and Eyes of Heaven.
Travel times for such journeys could reach into the hundreds or thousands of years, making some form of life extension, such as suspended animation, necessary for the original crew to live to see their destination.
Although the combined forces of the young superheroes best her, adding further damage, she is able to activate a dormant Superman robot before shutting down for repairs.
The Waywork has been completely explored for hundreds of years, and the settled systems are bursting at the seams.
Stross even went as far as to suggest that a sufficiently powerful species utilizing enough raw processing power could launch attacks upon, and manipulate, the structure of the universe itself.
Comparison to magic Paranormal abilities like the Force are a common device in science fiction, and the Force has been compared to the role magic plays in the fantasy genre.
Kong is voiced by Unshō Ishizuka in the original Japanese version and by Jim Foronda in the Funimation dub.
Anti-gravity research In 1921, while experimenting in the lab his parents had set up for him while he was still in high school, Brown discovered an unusual effect while experimenting with a Coolidge tube (hot cathode tube), a type of X-ray vacuum tube with two asymmetrical electrodes.
Fallout Tactics 2 Fallout Tactics 2 was proposed as a sequel to Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel, although it was originally conceived as a sequel to Wasteland, the video game that inspired the Fallout series.
The story is written in the first person, from the point of view of a newly sentient robot, in the form of a written confession.
The show was written and produced by Peter and Hanneke Jacobs and was originally aired on Trinity Broadcasting Network, with Peter playing the part of Colby.
Although most of the main cast consists of circular bots, other characters are featured in other shapes, such as Olie's friend Billy Bevel and his family, who are square-shaped bots from Planet Cubey.
Initially a heroic figure and ally of the Teen Titans and Outsiders, Indigo is later revealed to be a mole designed to eliminate opposition to the Coluan species.
Penguin is voiced by Keiji Hirai in the original Japanese version and by Seth Magill in the Funimation dub.
He was portrayed as a cybercriminal and computer programmer by Keanu Reeves in The Matrix Trilogy, as well as having a cameo in The Animatrix short film Kid's Story.
Electrocution staff chair With the press of a button, Blofeld electrocutes the staff member on the seat which he sits on, then the seat drops down into the floor and comes back empty.
This 'dark side' of The Culture also alludes to or echoes mistakes and tragedies in 20th century Marxist–Leninist countries, although the Culture is generally portrayed as far more 'humane' and just.
There was much speculation that Johnson would return to coaching during the first year of the program's run.
Jaime then find out from his parents that, because he is not attending college, he will be heading to Palmera City to work at the family diner for the summer.
Diane joins the quasi-religious "New Kingdom" movement, a Christian sect that endorses hedonism and indulgence, where she meets and later marries Simon Townsend.
Eventually, the project detects a signal from Vega, 26 light-years away, transmitting prime numbers.
The freedoms include the ability to leave the Culture when desired, often forming new associated but separate societies with Culture ships and Minds, most notably the Zetetic Elench and the ultra-pacifist and non-interventionist Peace Faction.
Erik Kain of Forbes praised the episode's jabs at for-profit colleges DeVry and the University of Phoenix.
While sometimes an explicit power on their own, force fields have also been attributed to other fictional abilities.
The Trainman is not seen again and was possibly assimilated by Smith, who calls Sati "the last Exile" before assimilating her as well.
The video features all four Vengaboys members and other tourists travelling to various destinations in Province of Barcelona, Piera and Gavà, in a 1930s style mini-bus, the "Vengabus" (a 1933 Chevrolet series O Bus), where they end up in a nightclub in La Barceloneta, Barcelona.
In a post-credits scene, the inventor from the prologue returns and discovers Rabbid Peach's photos of the island, which somehow ended up in her room.
Eventually, Astro is sold to a robot circus run by ringleader Hamegg, but is saved from his servitude by Professor Ochanomizu.
Lambe (1988) in Thrust, #29, Winter 1988 Review by John Gilbert (1989) in Fear, September 1989 Review by Chris C.
Perhaps the best-known proposed use of monomolecular wire ("hyperfilament") is in the cables of a space elevator.
The last album, "A Heart to Give" was adapted into the first episode of the final TV series, which was divided into two parts.
This concept has become a staple of many science fiction works, so much so that authors frequently do not even bother to explain or justify them to their readers, treating them almost as established fact and attributing whatever capabilities the plot requires.
History Although a machine endowed with superhuman strength and futuristic weaponry, he often displayed human characteristics, such as laughter, sadness, and mockery, as well as singing and playing the guitar.
The scenarios of several episodes adapt elements of Greek mythology, other mythologies, and European legends.
Ashley (Japanese: アシュリー, Hepburn: Ashurī) is a 15 year-old witch-in-training, who lives in a haunted mansion in Diamond City with a little demon/devil or imp named Red (Japanese: レッド, Hepburn: Reddo).
The Substrate Wars called it an "engaging, readable beginning to a series", full of "space battles, believable characters, [and] intriguing worldbuilding".
Fallout's atmosphere and artwork are reminiscent of post–World War II United States during the Cold War era and the fear that the country was headed for nuclear war in the real world.
But then, as a report from the US Department of Energy reveals, mysterious transformations are red mercury's stock in trade.
For instance, the transporter was created because the limited budget of Star Trek: The Original Series (TOS) in the 1960s did not allow expensive shots of spaceships landing on planets.
She becomes director of "Project Argus," a New Mexico radio telescope array searching for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI).
List of fiction containing teleportation Multiple media types Nearly every entry in the Star Trek franchise features a transporter system of some type to various levels of prominence.
Akira is confident, but also smart enough to utilize his abilities to the fullest and is somewhat proficient in manipulation, evident through his battle with Okuyasu.
The amount of energy released by the fission primary is thousands of times greater than that released by conventional explosives, and it appears that the "red mercury" approach would be orders of magnitude smaller than required.
Created shortly after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the series functions as a cultural response to nuclear anxieties.
During the Divisional Playoffs, Menefee once again substituted for Joe Buck as host, as the pregame show again originated from Hollywood for both games.
The energy released during its reaction is allegedly enough to directly compress the secondary without the need for a fission primary in a thermonuclear weapon.
This technique uses a particular implementation of fixation and vitrification that can successfully preserve a rabbit brain in "near perfect" condition at −135 °C, with the cell membranes, synapses, and intracellular structures intact in electron micrographs.
Another Gentian, Cyphel, is mysteriously murdered, which fuels the Line's concerns that there is a traitor among them.
But as far as silly episodes written and drawn by people who have seen a lot of Thor recently, this wasn't bad." Ramsey Isler of IGN gave the episode a 7.5 out of 10, stating: "The story wasted no time getting into its parody of the so-called 'history' channel.
Mass Effect Andromeda – Representatives of the human race, in addition to that of other Milky Way Galaxy races, travel to the Andromeda Galaxy aboard a series of arks, with the aim of colonizing a series of new homeworlds.
Alternatively, if multiple conditions are met in both Mass Effect 2 and Mass Effect 3 depending on the player's choices, Shepard and Tali could convince the quarians that the geth do not seek to harm them and to break off their attack.
Grayson / Stitches – Royal Pain's cackling sidekick who raised her as his daughter after she was turned into a baby by the Pacifier.
He also discovered Smith's continued existence thanks to his link with Neo, and opted to turn that link into a 'chain' by similarly suppressing Smith's memories and forcing him to act as Thomas' business partner.
In October 1942, Brown was discharged from Navy service with Brown requesting to resign "for the good of the naval service to escape trial by General Court Martial" and with his official discharge exam listing "no comment" as to the reasons why.
The endorsement of the president ensures that Henshaw eclipses the rest of the heroes claiming to be Superman's heir.
Although there were a few earlier scientific papers suggesting the concept, a fully realized space elevator was first described in 1979 in Arthur Clarke's The Fountains of Paradise and Charles Sheffield's The Web Between the Worlds.
Although this technique has not yet led to a successful revival of a cryopreserved brain, some researchers see this technique as providing promising directions for future research.
Although he holds no Pactio with Negi, Kotaro often acts as a partner of Negi in combat, partnering with him in a tournament in the Magical World in order to gain money to free their friends from indentured servitude.
Gideon was pursued and disabled once more by photographer Frank Weitz, once again in the debut story.
Dutch theologian Frank Bosman noted that the biblical origins of Legion's name is an example of the numerous explicit references to Christian tradition in Mass Effect.
Unauthorised copies of the Martians were made from car parts by workers at the Ford Halewood factory near Liverpool.
Star Wars Rebels producer Dave Filoni cites several influences on how the Force is used in the show.
In the episode, the boys accidentally uncover the true origins of Thanksgiving after watching a History Channel documentary alleging that aliens were present at the original harvest feast in 1621.
In 1958, Brown worked as a research and development consultant for Agnew Bahnson's Whitehall Rand Project, an anti-gravity venture at the Bahnson Company of Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
BioWare acknowledged the Amazon Echo easter egg and responded with a pop culture reference of their own.
In "Erigah", the seventh episode of Star Trek: Discovery season 5, the Badlands are determined to be the temporary location of a next clue to finding vital creation-of-life technology.
A matrioshka brain design is concentrated on sheer capacity and the maximum amount of energy extracted from its source star, while a Jupiter brain is optimized for computational speed.
An early example of a material similar to monomolecular wire deliberately used as a weapon and cutting tool is "borazon-tungsten filament" in G.
On the other hand, Looking for a Good Book said that the military science fiction aspect "[shone] brightest here", but that the characters were only "okay" and that "it won’t likely excite too many readers".
Yuya Fungami (噴上裕也, Fungami Yuya) He is a member of a motorcycle gang who got into an accident and used his Stand, Highway Star (ハイウェイ・スター, Haiwei Sutā), to steal Josuke and Rohan's life energy in order to recover from their injuries.
Each subsequent chapter is narrated from the first-person perspective of two shatterlings named Campion and Purslane, alternating between them each chapter.
Astro Boy also appears in the premium giveaway series, "March of Comics" (#285) also published by Gold Key in 1966.
A 1993 article in the Russian newspaper Pravda, claiming to be informed by leaked top-secret memos, described red mercury as: [A] super-conductive material used for producing high-precision conventional and nuclear bomb explosives, 'Stealth' surfaces and self-guided warheads.
Aldehyde-stabilized cryopreservation is a new technique for cryopreservation first demonstrated in 2016 by Robert L.
In The Original Series, warp factor 6 was established as the common speed of the USS Enterprise NCC-1701.
Jupiter Brain The term "matrioshka brain" was invented by Robert Bradbury as an alternative to the Jupiter brain—a concept similar to the matrioshka brain, but on a smaller planetary scale and optimized for minimal signal propagation delay.
It is also shown that Bihu's mother feels guilty about lying to her about the stillborn and thus reveals the orphanage where the baby was abandoned.
(Analog, Dec 1963) The main character uses a strand from an asteroid towing-cable to cut jail bars and to booby-trap the door of his room.
Jerubaal was meant to carry out the same task as Gideon (using its own catch phrase, "Obliterate!"), but disabled Gideon to win the favour of their creators, The Silent Ones, by guarding "The Edge" itself.
He deliberately committed suicide to free himself from the Matrix just before Agents confronted him, idolizing Neo afterwards.
Initially, she can only summon the harisen on command, however she is later able to call upon both at will.
It protects a person, area, or object from attacks or intrusions, or even deflects energy attacks back at the attacker.
In The Sea of Monsters, Percy, Annabeth, and Tyson run into the Gray Sisters who are in the form of three taxi drivers.
This means that the two never became friends in this alternate reality and probably Shantanu did not even get to join the CBI.
Rohan Kishibe (岸辺 露伴, Kishibe Rohan) An abrasive but well meaning mangaka who writes the manga Pink Dark Boy for Weekly Shōnen Jump.
The NCR was formed by a group of Vault 15 dwellers who would go on to found the town of Shady Sands in 2142.
Prin succeeds in getting out, but has to leave his partner Chay behind, where she is tortured, restored to some semblance of sanity, and finally given a role as an angel in Hell who is able to release one soul a day by killing them.
Hank Henshaw / Cyborg Superman appears as a downloadable alternate skin for Superman in Injustice: Gods Among Us.
As a result of its size, the Expanse functions as a natural barrier, limiting contact between species on either side of the cloud.
The Martians' behaviour and personalities were initially developed while the puppeteers were messing around on set.
Brown struggled with the required curriculum of a first-year student, and to help Thomas in his school work, his parents set up a fully provisioned private laboratory in the family home in Pasadena, California.
Description The most common role of sleeper ships in fiction is for interstellar or intergalactic travel, usually at sub-light speed.
One joy in the story for children is to read how Manders struggles to come to terms with human existence, for example by misunderstanding phrases like "getting along like a house on fire," failing to realise that a kite is not meant to take you with it, or trying to slice custard.
Fictional character biography Jaime lives in El Paso, Texas, and is the son of Alberto Reyes and Bianca Reyes and the brother of Milagro Reyes.
Guilty Spark repairs the message Cortana left on a Flood-controlled ship, and tags along with the humans and Elites who head through a slipspace portal which leads to the Ark.
This resulted in her being able to construct force fields out of air and water particles rather than energy.
It is a common subject in science fiction and fantasy literature, film, video games, and television.
Music video The accompanying music video for "We Like to Party" was directed by Wendelien van Diepen.
Soliani was in a constant state of panic before its full reveal and urged his development team to not get their hopes up.
In the 2006 video game Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Double Agent, red mercury is used by the terrorist group JBA, to create multiple nuclear devices intended to bomb three major American cities.
The vessel would also need to be constantly accelerating and at a constant speed to maintain the gravitational effect, and thus would not have gravity while stationary, and could experience significant swings in g-forces if the vessel were to accelerate above or below 1 g.
Eric Cartman is displeased with the assignment, and suggests the group watch the History Channel for research.
Jaime is recruited by Black Beetle (who originally identifies himself as a Blue Beetle from the future) and Dan Garrett to go into the past with Booster Gold to prevent Ted Kord's death.
Some Transformers like the Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen iteration of Jetfire carry onboard Space Bridges.
In The Hammer of Thor, Alex goes to Jotunheim alongside Magnus and the others to visit Utgard-Loki and find out about Loki's plan about Sam's betrothal.
In 2016, DC Comics implemented another relaunch of its books called "DC Rebirth", which restored its continuity to a form much as it was prior to The New 52 reboot.
Subspace In the Star Trek fictional universe, subspace is a feature of space-time that facilitates faster-than-light transit, in the form of interstellar travel or the transmission of information.
On these occasions, Fox would precede its coverage with a studio pregame show titled Fox NFL Saturday, which had no change in format outside of the day in the title.
The Type One Super Robot is a 1986 children's book written and illustrated by the British author Alison Prince.
The field completely encompasses the galactic disk, preventing a conventional starship from traveling beyond the edge of the galaxy.
This version previously piloted Lex Luthor's anti-alien Guardian Defense Platform before being severely burned and paralyzed in a radiation leak that forced him to pilot the shuttle to safety.
Martin Tajmar, a physicist and professor for Space Systems at the Dresden University of Technology has written a paper on propellantless propulsion and makes numerous references to electrets.
Campion, now the only shatterling still in pursuit, enters the wormhole after them and emerges in the Andromeda Galaxy, a place apparently devoid of all sentient life.
Space (French: Il était une fois… l'Espace) is a science fiction animated television series created and directed by Albert Barillé.
The wormhole network was built by unknown precursors, and hidden messages exist in transcendental numbers like pi.
Additionally, he owns a cow named Ol' Precious and a horse named Clippy Clop along with an unnamed chicken family on his farm.
Animated film The batarang appears in the Batman animated films Batman: Mask of the Phantasm, Batman: Year One, Batman: Under the Red Hood, Son of Batman, Batman vs.
Thus, the rotation of a space station would need to be adequately stabilized, and any operations to deliberately change the rotation would need to be done slowly enough to be imperceptible.
The two books show at least one solution to the Fermi paradox, with electromagnetically noisy civilizations being snuffed out by the arrival of self-replicating machines designed to destroy any potential threat to their (possibly long-dead) creators.
Later in 2004, the theme music from the TV series was used to signal the departure of a train at JR Niiza Station on the JR Musashino Line.
The robots would then mock what they saw by chortling as they heard how the "Earth people peeled their own potatoes with their metal knives, boiled them for twenty of their minutes, then smashed them all to bits" – instead of using Smash instant mash.
He and Simon drive Diane back to Diane's childhood home where Tyler had hidden some of the Martian biotech.
For example, one microgame, based on The Legend of Zelda, increases the difficulty by adding obstacles in harder difficulties.
Right now, Diadora is the kit maker of Norwegian Eliteserien club Viking FK At the 2025 season, Diadora made a return to the Brazilian football, providing kits for Coritiba and Náutico.
On May 16, 2016, Excel Homes filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which meant the company would be liquidated, leaving 280 people unemployed in Liverpool alone.
New owners and revival Efforts to sell the chain continued until July 2023, with no adequate bids submitted.
As a stopgap measure, Inslaw provided PROMIS on a time-share basis through a VAX computer in Virginia, allowing the offices to access PROMIS on the Inslaw VAX through remote terminals, until the needed equipment was installed on-site.
In 2021, the Body Shop announced that all its products would be certified vegan by the Vegan Society as of the end of 2023.
Items are imported, created in conjunction with foreign designers, or produced by Pier 1's Trend and Product Development team.
See also List of casual dining restaurant chains List of seafood restaurants References Further reading Segal, David (September 9, 2024).
Under chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code this kind of debt restructuring is usual, and the so-called "cram down" procedure allows a court to approve a plan over the wishes of creditors if they will receive a value equivalent to what they are owed.
It closed three months later in July 1990 after it was accused of violating a law that states that airlines in the United States must be controlled by American citizens.
Furthermore, the presence of several highways, such as the New England Thruway, made the site accessible from the surrounding New York metropolitan area, whose population exceeded 10 million.
In response Greenpeace launched a legal defense fund and characterized the lawsuit as a Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation (SLAPP).
retailer Bombay Company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on September 20, 2007, Bombay's Canadian operations (after inventory disposition) were acquired by the Benitahs and combined operations with Bowring and Benix & Company.
References External links American Continental Corporation Records, Arizona State University Library.
As Central Grocers went bankrupt after being around for 100 years in 2017, Strack & Van Til made an agreement with Associated Wholesale Grocers, Inc., makers of Best Choice and Always Save brands of items, to compensate for the now gone Centrella.
Formal definition There is a certain amount of money to divide, denoted by E {\displaystyle E} (=Estate or Endowment).
At its peak, the company had more than 700 weight management centers in Australia, the United States, Canada, and New Zealand.
In January 2024, Subway debuted Sidekicks, a new range of footlong baked goods in partnership with Cinnabon and Auntie Anne's.
Furthermore, later bankruptcy prediction models such as the hazard based model proposed by Campbell, Hilscher, and Szilagyi in 2011 have proven more accurate still.
Allan, 1976–1987 Robert Edmond Heneault, 1987–1991 (Stelco Enterprises) Frederick Harold Telmer, 1987–1991 (Stelco Steel) Robert J.
Bankruptcy A federal court ordered Davega Stores into straight bankruptcy in April 1963, when its court-appointed trustee could not formulate a reorganization plan under which the chain could pay its debts.
In November 2018, Competition Bureau Canada began an investigation into the company's misleading marketing practices, culminating in a $5 million penalty for the company as well as $0.8 million of penalties for its directors.
Charm rehired many former staff members and reopened 2 stores in Winnipeg, as well as announcing their intention to open several other stores in ensuing months.
Nike ownership, 1995–2008 In 1995, Canstar, the parent company of Bauer, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Nike.
See also List of fast-food chicken restaurants Further reading "Pioneer Chicken in Bankruptcy; Most Stores to Remain Open".
Ho refused to appear before the DOT without a subpoena and was ultimately unable to prove American citizenship.
Unfiltered with Chuck D, Lizz Winstead, and Rachel Maddow (9 a.m.–noon ET) Aired April 1, 2004 – April 1, 2005.
The company won court approval for an injection of $206 million to get it through its financial restructuring in April 2009 and emerged from creditor protection on 9 December 2010.
and a Canadian record label, both created by General Recorded Tape, a California-based company that existed from 1965 to 1979.
However, the business declined, and on 4 May 2023, the company announced that it was going out of business after 40 years.
Excel Homes’ products and manufacturing process were covered in both the trade and mainstream media, including features on the History Channel’s Modern Marvels in 2009 and ABC-TV’s Extreme Makeover: Home Edition in 2010.
Generally, creditors can be divided between those who "perfected" their interest by establishing an appropriate public record of the debt and any property claimed as collateral for it, and those who have not.
Its Toronto division, formerly known as Arc Productions and Starz Animation, has worked on CGI films and series such as Chop Socky Chooks, Gnomeo & Juliet, Thomas & Friends, and VeggieTales.
On June 12, hip hop rapper Flavor Flav was hired by the company to be the spokesperson of Red Lobster commercials, after he previously ordered the entire Red Lobster menu in order to save the company.
The Gaols Act 1823 saw priests sent in, and put the debtors' prison jailors on the state's payroll, so they did not claim fees from inmates.
In 2020, to deal with a decline in travel during the COVID-19 pandemic, the company filed bankruptcy under Chapter 15, Title 11, United States Code and underwent a court-supervised restructuring process under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act, which was completed in May 2021.
The company once operated the now closed or rebranded banners Little Burgundy (which it sold to Genesco), Simard & Voyer, Christian Shoes, Access, Pegabo, Transit, Stoneridge, Locale, Feetfirst and FIRST (which was the American version of Feetfirst).
After implementing a system of portable radios, the park laid off 700 of its 3,000 workers during that season.
The brand was introduced in 1991 by McCain Foods, and sold to the Pasco Beverage Group in 2000 before being sold again, to Hansen's.
Related bankruptcy of Tom Hazelrigg III Tom Hazelrigg is a long-time business associate of Michael Mastro who was forced into bankruptcy by James Rigby and two other creditors in February 2012.
Aldo Bensadoun learned Italian to better communicate with his suppliers in Italy, and eventually he cut out the middleman who serviced him between Canada and European manufacturers (Strauss, 2010).
Greenpeace Resolute Forest Products has been criticized by Greenpeace and other organizations for advancing logging and road building in endangered species habitat in Québec and Ontario.
Until the chain's demise, Carter's Foods was the only grocery chain in Michigan to be entirely owned by its employees.
On November 15, 2012, the Seattle Times reported that the two diamond rings were in French authorities' possession.
On July 21, 2007, text messages began to be sent to Amp'd Mobile customer phones that stated: Your service may be disconnected on 7.24 @ 12:01 am.
The most important of these witnesses was Michael Riconosciuto, who swore in an affidavit for Inslaw that businessman Earl Brian had provided him with a copy of Inslaw's enhanced Promis, supporting Inslaw's earlier claims that Brian had been interested in acquiring and marketing the software.
Training programs offered North American's Professional Pilot Program included the FAA Private Pilot License (PPL), Instrument Rating (IRA), Commercial Pilot License (CPL), Flight Instructor Certificate (CFI), Instrument Flight Instructor Certificate (CFII) and the Multi-Engine Rating courses.
Sponsorship NASCAR announced on December 1, 2016, a multi-year deal that will make Monster Energy only the third entitlement sponsor in its premier series history.
History Formed in 1989 by former Continental Airlines manager and Mid Pacific Air Director of Marketing Franco Mancassola, the airline operated flights from Honolulu to Kahului, Lihue, and Kona.
After World War II, the company focused on its retail business, including the department store in St.
This is said to be the first car factory in Britain to use ferro-concrete (concrete reinforced with metal bars), and was designed by Albert Kahn.
The sprayings occurred over a period of at least two months, with each spraying lasting about 30–40 minutes.
C E L ( 50 , 100 , 150 ; 200 ) = ( 16.667 , 66.666 , 116.667 ) {\displaystyle CEL(50,100,150;200)=(16.667,66.666,116.667)} ; here r = 33.333 {\displaystyle r=33.333} .
since 2022 and releasing Barbie-themed products since 2023, MINISO acquired several percent of Mattel's shares.
The fleet North American operated until September 5, 2008, a fleet of 6 Cessna 152, 11 Cessna 172, 3 Cessna 172RG, 2 Piper Seminoles and one DA-40 Diamond Star.
While the total allocation is larger than the estate: Remove one unit equally from all active agents.
In October 1960 Ernie Strack and Nick Van Til partnered and opened their first Strack & Van Til in Highland, Indiana.
America Radio Network, which was home to hosts such as Thom Hartmann, Peter Werbe, and Mike Malloy, never gained national attention.
Equity owned or operated stations lost RTN affiliation immediately, though Luken vowed to find new affiliates for RTN in those areas.
In September 2019, Dennis Herrera, the city attorney of San Francisco sued the company over hidden fees and other predatory scams.
Subsequent investigations found that staff failed to adhere to thorough hand washing and the use of plastic gloves during food preparation.
The old Pendell plant became a Quad/Graphics (which acquired Quebecor World in 2010) until it closed in 2019.
It suffered in the 1990s as consumers began to prefer showroom sales that featured spaces arranged to look like actual rooms in houses.
The Kolster Radio Corporation signed an agreement with Davega Stores in late 1928, representing a significant addition to the retail outlets of the radio merchandise dealer.
The play was performed at the 2021 Edinburgh Festival Fringe festival on a stage built on the main stand of Tynecastle Park.
Spendthrift Farm is a thoroughbred race horse breeding farm and burial site in Lexington, Kentucky, currently owned by Eric & Tammy Gustavson.
In April 1954, Davega Stores employed large newspaper space and window displays in marketing Line Drive, a baseball game manufactured by Lord & Freber of Los Angeles, California.
In 2025, SSENSE went into creditor protection under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act, blaming increased tariffs on imports to the United States for the financial downturn.
By the late 1980s, the Bowring family had sold the chain to American retailer Hallmark Cards, and in 1993 it was acquired by Royal Canadian Securities through subsidiary Tereve Holdings, following which the St.
Calculation of the O-score The Ohlson O-Score is the result of a 9-factor linear combination of coefficient-weighted business ratios which are readily obtained or derived from the standard periodic financial disclosure statements provided by publicly traded corporations.
In June 2021 SSENSE received minority investment from Sequoia Capital that valued the company at over $4 billion USD.
The Pioneer Chicken Take Out Corporation, doing business as Pioneer Chicken, is an American fried chicken restaurant chain which was founded in Echo Park, Los Angeles in 1961 by H.
Contrary to original expectations, the label was not a major component of the operations of parent General Recorded Tape.
For example, in 2008, The Thom Hartmann Program had 1.5–2 million unique listeners a week and The Lionel Show had 1.5–1.75 million unique listeners a week.
The GRT label had more success with its Nashville operations, but the Nashville office was shut down in 1978.
Locations Quebecor had facilities in the United States, Canada, Brazil, France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Spain, Austria, Sweden, Switzerland, Finland, Chile, Argentina, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, and India.
In 2016, it reduced its ownership stake but announced a continuing commercial relationship through 2023.
On January 6, 2020, it was announced that Pier 1 will close up to 450 stores, citing "a reduction in corporate headcount".
Sarku Japan's menu is composed predominantly of teriyaki dishes (chicken, beef and shrimp), though it also offers bento boxes, dumplings, tempura and a variety of sushi rolls.
After learning of this letter, DOJ lawyers moved to recuse Judge Bason from the Inslaw case, but their motion was rejected, and Judge Bason remained on the case until the expiration of his term on February 8, 1988.
The chain continued to expand in 2005, when they acquired Seaman's Furniture and Huffman Koos stores after bankruptcy.
World Color had pursued major expansions in 1996 and 1997, purchasing Ringier America and Rand McNally's Book Services Group.) Financial struggles Quebecor entered a difficult period in the early 2000s as the market has gradually shifted focus to digital media.
The company also had to negotiate a volatile relationship with its landlord and an expensive and inefficient 96-year-old factory.
The feeds were in a format intended to be fed directly to a terrestrial television transmitter with no further studio processing.
See also Retail apocalypse YOOX Net-a-Porter Group Clicks and mortar Mytheresa Farfetch Polyvore References External links Official website
The House report thus took a different approach to several of the legal issues that the Senate report had discussed.
In 1986, Moss' grandson, Brent Trepel, took over the running of the company due to his father's poor health, becoming president and CEO from May 1986 until July 2013, when the company was sold to JSN Jewellery, a manufacturer based out of Toronto.
Founded as an independent company, the business was purchased by Nestlé in 2006 for approximately $600 million.
AFC Enterprises acquisition In 1993, Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits owner AFC Enterprises purchased the franchise and converted most locations to Popeyes.
Steel announced on March 3, 2009, that it would be temporarily shutting down its Hamilton plant and most of its Lake Erie plant, putting more than 2,000 people out of work.
A subsequent leveraged buyout a year later led to chapter 11 bankruptcy on March 13, 1989, and a subsequent reorganization.
On May 4, 2017, Central Grocers filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and plans to close their distribution center and sell 22 of its Strack and Van Til stores, plus seven of its Ultra stores.
In January 2025, MINISO opened a flagship store at Asiatique The Riverfront in Thailand, further expanding its presence in Southeast Asia.
In May 2009, Chicago-based printer RR Donnelley tendered an unsolicited bid to purchase Quebecor World, which was rejected as the company emerged from creditor protection in July (having changed its name back to "Worldcolor Press").
In the 1960s, Levitz, expanded by Richard's sons Leon and Ralph, successfully pioneered the sales of moderately priced brand-name furniture from a warehouse-style store.
Also privately owned, Strack & Van Til will become a subsidiary of Hy-Vee but will retain its own logos, name, and branding, Potthoff said.
The vast majority of the chain's restaurants are located in shopping mall food courts; however, a number of street locations can be found in Georgia, Maryland, New Jersey, New York and Virginia.
Locations There are two remaining locations in the Los Angeles area: 904 South Soto Street in Los Angeles and 6323 East Florence Avenue in Bell Gardens.
In 1984, Queen Elizabeth II visited Spendthrift Farms to view not only Seattle Slew but also Affirmed as possible studs for her stable of Thoroughbreds containing 22 broodmares.
According to the company, Excel Homes built more than 28,000 modular homes in its climate-controlled plants in Liverpool, Pennsylvania and Avis, Pennsylvania, since its founding in 1984.
References External links Plaid Pantry's homepage Plaid Pantry succeeds by shrinking - Portland Business Journal
As of that time, it was operating nearly 80 stores, mostly in the Northeastern United States and on the West Coast, under the corporation PLVTZ LLC.
This fact, along with substantially lower passenger loads, led airline officials to cease operating and file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in April 1984.
In January 2017, Halifax-based Charm Diamond Centres announced that it had acquired the brand rights to Ben Moss Jewellers.
This acquisition expanded Hertz's vehicle renting and leasing, with nearly 400,000 cars and trucks in 120 countries across the globe.
In 1984, the Keeneland Association honored Spendthrift Farm with its Mark of Distinction for their contribution to Keeneland and the Thoroughbred industry.
Paul Kenny, who was part of the Thai Union-led investor group that acquired Red Lobster, sat on Red Lobster board.
On 19 June 2006, they announced the signing of a definitive agreement to sell the company to Nestlé in a transaction valued at approximately $600 million.
The Hamilton plant has not produced steel since 2011, but its coke ovens and cold rolling finishing works remain in operation.
As of September 2021, only one location of Kato's Cajun is open, located in East Towne Mall in Madison, Wisconsin.
Included in the deal was a small gasoline refinery in Houston, Texas, in need of updating, a string of gas stations in the Southeast and a handful of questionable tanker contracts.
The chain utilized extensive landscaping and Tudor architecture, and all properties featured only one story.
The Aldo Group also announced that it was partnering with Kohl's department stores to design and produce exclusive footwear products that would be sold under private and exclusive brand names.
Excel Homes designed and manufactured custom modular homes for more than 400 home builders in a footprint that spanned from Maine to South Carolina and as far west as Ohio.
C E L ( 50 , 100 , 150 ; 300 ) = ( 50 , 100 , 150 ) {\displaystyle CEL(50,100,150;300)=(50,100,150)} ; here r = 0 {\displaystyle r=0} .
On July 29, 2016, Arc Productions entered receivership and closed down its studio, locking out 500 employees after telling them there was a payroll glitch and no one had been paid.
On 30 June 2023 Hunter Boot filed for creditor protection under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act in Canada.
It supplied several grocery stores in Indiana and Illinois, including Strack & Van Til (acquired in 1998), Town & Country, Key Market, and Ultra Foods.
Trading in Equity Media Holdings Corporation (EMDA.Q) common stock, units, and warrants were suspended on December 18, 2008; NASDAQ announced on January 15, 2009, that the Equity-related securities were de-listed permanently.
Unlike Disneyland, where the shops were connected to each other, the stores were generally separated internally, like actual shops on city streets.
The deal came as part of Natura's downsizing strategy after its sale of Aesop to L'Oréal for $2.5 billion earlier in the year.
Discovery Airways was ordered to cease operations within one week on July 6, and the airline shut down on July 13.
HMS successfully sued the owners of properties re-branded from Knights Inn and forced them to alter the appearances of their buildings.
The following month, Bed Bath & Beyond announced Buy Buy Baby's withdrawal from Canada; all eleven Buy Buy Baby stores in Canada were closed by that April 2023.
This makes the balance sheet relevant, because if creditors are in fact all paid, the rationale for imposing liability on directors (assuming there is no fraud) drops away.
The discharge of the dioxin-contaminated oil was the basis of claims against IPC by the federal government, the State of Missouri, and over 1,600 private plaintiffs.
In September 2018, MINISO received its first external strategic investment funding of one billion RMB from Tencent and Hillhouse Funding Group.
It was revived as an e-commerce store by Wellful (the parent company of Nutrisystem) sometime after this announcement in fall 2023.
Until the 2006 restructuring, Stelco's operations also included Stelco McMaster Works in Contrecœur, Quebec and Stelwire (both acquired by ArcelorMittal in 2006 and now operates as ArcelorMittal Long Products Canada – Hamilton-East Complex and Mittal Canada Contrecoeur-Ouest Inc.).
The bankruptcy trustee is seeking a nearly $4.8 million judgment against Harris, alleging that he improperly took at least that much out of JK Harris and related companies while they were insolvent, from 2004 until they shut down.
Air America Syndication was used to syndicate Thom Hartmann, and later Springer on the Radio which aired at the same time as The Al Franken Show and The Sam Seder Show respectively on the regular network lineup.
Central Grocers Cooperative, founded in 1917 as Central Wholesale Grocers, was a retailers' cooperative based in Joliet, Illinois, near Chicago.
In Re Brian D Pierson (Contractors) Ltd Hazel Williamson QC held that the directors of a golf course business were culpable for wrongful trading, but reduced their contribution by 30 per cent because poor weather had made profitable golf business more difficult than normal.
The business's original vision was to sell products with ethically sourced, cruelty-free, and natural ingredients.
Walsh was a resident of Washington, D.C., and told Cohen that he could not be part of an enterprise run in such an opaque and disruptive fashion.
Amp'd managed the marketing and multimedia content, while Telus Mobility handled the billing, customer care, retail aspects, and network.
On June 5, 2013, the Court of Appeals of Chambéry denied the extradition of Michael and Linda Mastro from France to the United States, basing this decision on Michael Mastro's age (88), poor health, and daily dependence on his wife.
This was followed by the 1990 purchase of the shops of Maxwell Graphics Incorporated of Minnesota from Maxwell Communication Corporation.
The 1855 Act limited investors' liability to the amount they had invested, so if someone bought shares in a company that ran up massive debts in insolvency, the shareholder could not be asked for more than he had already paid in.
There are 107 locations, primarily in the Portland metropolitan area with other locations in the Salem and Seattle areas.
The Jewel-Osco bid was ultimately unsuccessful and the stores were sold in the bankruptcy auction to the Strack and Van Til families and the Indiana Grocery Group.
The company was relocated to Toronto, Ontario in 1969, and commenced distributing foreign label records and tapes, as well as recording its own artists.
In December 2022, SSENSE was the target of a cyberattack where confidential employee data was compromised.
In April 2011, Liberty Starz sold Starz Animation to a Canadian consortium, and it was renamed Arc Productions.
The company was founded in 2012 in Montreal and justfly.com was created in 2014 to offer international and domestic travel options to American consumers.
Founded on July 7, 1972 in Hammonton, New Jersey, then later moved to South Carolina in 1978, NAIA specialized in flight and aircraft maintenance training.
Buy Buy Baby (stylized buybuy BABY) is an American big-box retail chain selling clothing, strollers, and other items for use with infants and young children.
Later, Bobby Clarke and Bernie Parent of the Philadelphia Flyers, Guy Lafleur of the Montreal Canadiens, and Walt Tkaczuk and Brad Park of the New York Rangers were signed to endorsement contracts by Pro Department Manager Bill Vanderburg.
Liquidation As a result of multiple lawsuits, JK Harris & Company LLC filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on October 7, 2011.
On July 24, 2007, Amp'd website updated its FAQ with potential service disconnection pushed back to July 31, 2007.
If a majority representing 75% in value of the creditors or class of creditors present and voting either in person or by proxy at the meeting agree a compromise, the meeting may apply to the court for the compromise to be enforced.
The report concludes that Resolute's improper application of Forest Stewardship Council standards threatens the integrity of the FSC system and brand.
American Continental Corporation was a Phoenix, Arizona-based real estate company of the 1970s and 1980s.
$1.3 million to CBS Corporation for RTN programming run during the time Equity owned Retro Television Network.
By 1985, the Pier 1 chain grew to 265 stores, with the management goal of doubling that number by 1990.
In 2014, Bauer expanded into baseball and softball by purchasing Easton Diamond from Riddell (BRG Sports).
(or simply Bowring) was a Newfoundland-based operator of retail stores, that, after Newfoundland became part of Canada, expanded its operation and narrowed its focus to gifts and home decor throughout Canada.
History Bauer family years, 1934–1965 The origins of the Bauer brand of hockey equipment trace to 14 September 1906, when the Western Shoe Company Limited was formed in Kitchener, Ontario.
Usually, even where fraudulent trading is suspected, an application is made with respect to an allegation of "wrongful trading" (or "insolvent trading") where the burden of proof is lower.
However, it is legally possible for a single transaction to be simultaneously fraudulent trading and a fraudulent conveyance, and to be the subject on concurrent applications.
Destinations United States Hawaii Honolulu (Honolulu International Airport) Kahului (Kahului Airport) Kona (Kona International Airport) Lihue (Lihue Airport) Fleet Prior to starting service, the airline had orders for twelve British Aerospace BAe 146 aircraft with options on two additional aircraft.
Roddick stated that she believed the takeover could allow her to be a "Trojan Horse" within the larger company, working through the Body Shop to improve its standards on animal testing and environmental issues.
In February 2022, a judge forced Hertz to reveal that it reports about 3,365 of its customers to the police every year for theft.
Knights Inn filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 1989, one year after the introduction of Arborgate Inn.
Upon the initial promotion's completion, customer response prompted Subway to create a "$5 Footlong Everyday Value Menu" that offered some footlong sandwiches for $5.
Juventus striker Roberto Baggio became the face of the company in the 1990s, and launched his own personalized football boots, the Matchwinner.
Missouri's Attorney General filed a similar lawsuit in August 2008 seeking restitution for Missouri residents hurt by the company's "deceptive practices".
On May 12, 2014, Darden announced that as part of its spinoff of Red Lobster, it was converting the co-located Red Lobster and Olive Garden locations into standalone Olive Garden locations.
The mid-1970s also marked Diadora's entry into the football category, aided by Roberto Bettega, who provided consulting information.
By 1981, Keating had two thousand employees on his payroll and was one of the largest land developers in Arizona, benefiting from a home building boom in the state.
Former products Natural soda Natural Soda came in twelve flavors: Original Cola, Ginger Ale, Key Lime Twist, Cherry Vanilla Creme, Grapefruit, Kiwi Strawberry, Vanilla Cola, Mandarin Lime, Creamy Root Beer, Raspberry, Mango Orange, and Pomegranate.
Several weeks after the accident, the Federal Aviation Administration grounded the company and began official hearings into the accident.
By that August, Zeckendorf had hired two men to replace Raynor and Wood, who had resigned from the park.
Tandy and Luther Henderson of the Tandy Corporation provided a loan to the California-based Cost Plus Imports chain in exchange for franchise rights.
The chain consisted of eight stores when it was acquired by Bed Bath & Beyond in 2007 for $67 million.
89 percent of its customer base was on postpaid contracts, and its total average revenue per user was “well over” $100 per month.
At the time, the company was forecasting the chain would reach 1,000 locations by the end of the decade.
As of September 2021, it appears many of these locations are still closed or may have permanently shuttered.
In 2010, the company once again began to evolve when it introduced, in Canada, a new store concept called "Lōcale", which will replace the current "Feetfirst" stores.
Food and Drug Administration ruled products containing high-fructose corn syrup could not be labeled "natural".
In some countries, the assets contributed by the directors are treated as general assets which may be taken by any secured creditors who may have a security interest which attaches to all the company's assets (characteristically, a floating charge).
In 1999, Sperry and Hutchinson, a company known for its S&H Green Stamps, introduced an updated rewards program, S&H Greenpoints; Carter's was the first chain in Michigan to utilize Greenpoints.
By far the company's most utilized aircraft was the Twin Otter, an eighteen-passenger aircraft noted for short field take-offs and landings (STOL) that was truly the company's workhorse.
Private investment company Oak Point Partners acquired the remnant assets, consisting of any known and unknown assets that weren't previously administered, from the PLVTZ, Inc.
Filmography Jam Filled Entertainment Television series Specials/shorts Films Jam Filled Toronto The Toronto branch of Jam Filled Entertainment was originally established as Dan Krech Productions on June 24, 1985, as one of the first visual effects companies in Toronto.
Hospitality Management Systems (HMS) acquired the Knights Inn franchise and management contract rights from Cardinal Industries in 1991.
Much of American Continental's assets were in the form of Arizona real estate, junk bonds, and mortgage-backed securities.
In the 1990s, Diadora was also the official kit supplier of several Italian football clubs, including AS Roma for three seasons, between 1997 and 2000.
The South Carolina Attorney General, Henry McMaster, withdrew from the lawsuit in 2005 because, he said, "there is no case" and any action taken against J.K.
When using an O-score to evaluate the probability of company’s failure, then exp(O-score) is divided by 1 + exp(O-score).
SCAT was based in Natchez, Mississippi and was incorporated by Andrew Peabody in 1971 to replace Southern Airways' Martin 4-0-4 flights between Natchez, Jackson and New Orleans.
Former spokespeople for the company, seen largely in broadcast commercials, include Cheers alumna Kirstie Alley and Thom Filicia of Queer Eye for the Straight Guy.
Furthermore, opponents of the bill claimed that small grocery stores would face an extraordinary financial burden from receiving and processing thousands of bottles and cans, potentially bankrupting several stores.
Harris was arrested for contempt of court for failure to obey a court order in a separate case that pre-dates the bankruptcy.
In 1979, the great Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew was retired to stud and stood at Spendthrift until 1987.
In practice, applications for orders in respect of fraudulent trading are rare because of the high burden of proof associated with fraud.
These include, Nashua, Never Bend, Prince John, Raise A Native, Gallant Man, Caro, Majestic Prince, and Valdez.
The petitioning creditors were The Coca-Cola Company, General Mills, Inc., Mars Financial Services, and Post Consumer Brands.
It distributed both brand name and private label goods branded as Centrella and Silver Cup Value Buy to about 400 member-owner grocery stores in Iowa, Indiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin.
Moreover, it has a unique Nash equilibrium, in which the payoffs are equal to the ones prescribed by CEL.
The effect of a successful application for fraudulent trading varies between different legal systems.
According to this philosophy, in order for an object to belong to the Form of the Good, it must be One and have the proper harmony, uniformity, and order to be in its proper form.
Within this soul dualism, every human has both an ethereal hun 魂 "spiritual soul; spirit; mood" that leaves the body after death and a substantive po 魄 "physical soul; spirit; vigor" that remains with the corpse.
A supreme deity, supreme god or supreme being is the conception of the sole deity of monotheistic religions or, in polytheistic or henotheistic religions, the paramount deity or supernatural entity which is above all others.
In many cases, one of the souls is associated with body functions ("body soul") and the other one can leave the body ("free soul" or "wandering soul").
Its foundation-stone was laid by the eminent Theosophist Charles "Bishop" Leadbeater, who opened the building on 4 June 1916.
He is both shown to be concerned for social justice, law and equity along with being faithful in his priestly rites and interaction with the gods.
Crowley would later write twelve more stories under the title Simon Iff in America, six stories as Simon Iff Abroad, and two final stories as Simon Iff Psychoanalyst.
Despite this, Hamza ibn Ali took him down from the cross and allowed him to return to his family, in order to prepare men for the preaching of his religion.
He stated that the founder of Sikhism was a Muslim saint, who was a reflection of the religious challenges he perceived to be occurring.
Choronzon is a demon that originated in writing with the 16th-century occultists Edward Kelley and John Dee within the latter's occult system of Enochian magic.
Whereas, the Greeks took the notion of pistis as persuasive discourse that was elliptical and concentrated on the "affect and effect rather than on the representation of the truth".
Scholarly interpretations Among historians of philosophy and science, the verse is often understood as a reference to the supposed effects of heavenly bodies upon terrestrial events.
Often, the declaration of faith is led by the leader of the congregation and followers respond in kind.
In Ahmadiyya theology, these prophecies concerning the Mahdi and the second coming of Jesus are believed to have been fulfilled in Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (1835–1908), the founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement, wherein the terms Messiah and Mahdi are synonyms for one and the same person.
Throughout the entire history of human knowledge, there are no more certain and infallible inferences than these.
There are sources that underscore how the Shia sect agrees with the Jews and Christians that Imam Mehdi (al-Mahdi) is another name for Elijah, whose return prior to the arrival of the Messiah was prophesied in the Old Testament.
Self-praise of Shulgi (Shulgi D) is a Sumerian hymn dedicated to the Third Dynasty of Ur ruler Shulgi, written on clay tablets dated to between 2100 and 2000 BC.
In Innu mythology, Matshishkapeu ('The Farting God') is considered to be one of the most powerful spirits, and thought to be even more powerful than the Caribou Master.
And his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him 18 And she said to Elijah, "What have you against me, O man of God?
917 of December 22, 1986, as amended, intended exclusively for the performance of welfare, social security, health, educational, receptive, cultural, recreational and sports activities, as well as the activities referred to in Article 16, letter a), of Law No.
Conversely, if the doomsday argument survives until the end of human civilization (in the year 5000, say) then it will have dramatically beaten the odds against the expectations of the Copernican principle.
Historian Lucio Marineo Siculo expressed it in a similar way in his play De Aragoniae Regibus (1509), introducing the novelty that the emblem had its origin in the mythical Knight Otger Cataló.
This indicates that she supported the statements of Talmud that Jesus was the son of a man named Pandira and "lived a hundred years before the beginning of the Gospel events." In his youth, he lived for many years in Egypt, where he "was initiated" in esoteric wisdom.
In Revelation 17:9 it is said that she sits on "seven mountains", typically understood as the seven hills of Rome.
The myth was called the "Creation of the Pickax" by Samuel Noah Kramer, a name by which it is referred in older sources.
A cover depicting Madonna as Our Lady of Czestochowa was featured in Polish magazine Machina in 2006, which was criticized by some like Jasna Góra Monastery's paulinians.
Therefore, Landsberg and Dewynne argue that it is more likely that the doomsday argument is wrong (even if its logic is correct) than that the human race will become extinct in 9,000 years (which the doomsday argument calculates at around 95% likely).
Jainists believe in a sort of compatibilism, in which the cycle of Saṃsara is a completely mechanistic process, occurring without any divine intervention.
Symbolism The Whore is associated with the Beast of Revelation by connection with an equally evil kingdom.
Chinese theology may be also called Tiānxué (天學; "study of Heaven"), a term already in use in the 17th and 18th centuries.
For example, in the Blackfeet account, Old Man and Old Woman arguing over whether people should die, with Old Woman using magic to ensure that the sign that they agreed upon gave her desired result.
For example, in Matthew 23:34–37 and Luke 11:47–51, Jesus assigned all of the bloodguilt for the killing of the prophets and of the saints to the Pharisees of Jerusalem.
Gross report to have evidenced and quantified DMT, along with its structural analog bufotenin (5-HO-DMT), in human blood and urine.
Paranormal researcher Ben Radford writes that Frank's Box is a "modern version of the Ouija board...
Parts of the structure of DMT occur within some important biomolecules like serotonin and melatonin, making them structural analogues of DMT.
Hume's quote comes from Pierre Bayle's influential Dictionnaire Historique et Critique, which quotes Lactantius attributing the questions to Epicurus.
Godwin drew a division by referring to Blavatskian Theosophy with a capital letter and older, Boehmian theosophy with a lower-case letter.
If a god has unlimited power and is completely good, then it has the power to extinguish evil and wants to extinguish it.
Laurie Anderson's "Example #22", from her 1981 album Big Science, interposes spoken sentences and phrases in German with sung passages in English representing EVP.
Karaite Jews traditionally consider the Written Torah to be authoritative, viewing the Oral Law as only one possible interpretation of the Written Torah.
The Celts honoured many tribal and tutelary deities, along with spirits of nature and ancestral spirits.
The scientific words empyreuma and empyreumatic, applied to the characteristic smell of the burning or charring of vegetable or animal matter, have the same Greek origin.
The House at that time was known as the Manor of Boleskine and Abertarff after the name of the local parish.
The video features heavy digital effects, cosmic imagery, and Easter eggs to Swift's other songs and albums; for instance, media publications interpreted her blue nail color and the Roman number "MCMLXXXIX" as Easter eggs pointing to her album 1989.
Known as the ‘Indigenous Religious Values Hypothesis’, the origin of religious values can be seen as the product of the values held by the society in which the religion originated from.
In the philosophical schools of the Indian Subcontinent, the concept of karma deals with similar philosophical issues to the Western concept of determinism.
This seems to be the earliest mention of Saligrama as this temple was constructed prior to the birth of Adi Shankara.
Some claims of chosenness are based on parallel claims of Israelite ancestry, as is the case for the Christian Identity and Black Hebrew sects—both which regard themselves (and not Jews) as the "true Israel".
Ráná, Parsi Law: Containing the Law Applicable to Parsis as Regards Succession and Inheritance, Marriage and Divorce, Printed at the Examiner Press, 1902 M.
Retrieved from https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2018/10/with-green-mosques-and-schools-amman-pushes-for-zero-emissions Tamney, J., Johnson, S., & Burton, R.
British composer Sir Granville Bantock wrote a tone poem for orchestra based on the Shelley poem in 1902, The Witch of Atlas: Tone Poem for Orchestra No.5 after Shelley, which was first performed on 10 September 1902.
There are numerous other declarations of faith, typically performed during religious rituals in many faiths.
It is a widely held belief that most members of the faith are in the tribe of Ephraim or the tribe of Manasseh.
Ordinary and extraordinary care are distinguished by some bioethical theories, including the teaching of the Catholic Church.
The persecution of anyone who opposed the Catholic Church during the Middle Ages, especially by the Inquisition, and the persecution of the Waldensians and the Huguenots are cited as examples of this persecution.
The term used in Sumerian to describe this concept was Ukkin, and in later Akkadian and Aramaic was puhru.
An earlier King's Hall The Theosophical Society had an earlier building called "King's Hall" at 132 Phillip Street, built in 1909.
Legend of the Four Blood Bars When in the Segunda parte de la crónica general de España it is time to explain the facts of Wilfred the Hairy, the Earl of Barcelona, Beuter the episode of the Legend of the Four Blood Bars is added.
Elijah learns that the widow has a son and between them they only have enough flour and oil for one more meal before they die.
As platonic relationship Biblical scholars have widely and traditionally interpreted this as a very close but non-sexual relationship (cf.
As expressed in the blessing at the reading of the Torah, our people have always felt it to be a privilege to be selected for such a purpose.
Uralic peoples The concept of more kinds of souls can be found also in the mythologies of several Uralic peoples.
It is one of a number of magic cauldrons in Welsh legend and folklore, including the cauldron of Diwrnach the Irishman in Culhwch and Olwen, the cauldron of the Head of Annwn in Preiddeu Annwfn and the cauldron of Cerridwen in the tale of Taliesin.
A group of people torched copies of the paper and several Islamic groups protested, saying the drawings ridiculed Muhammad and his companions.
A key aspect of faqr is the refusal to ask anything from others, as seeking from created beings conflicts with reliance on God.
Museum no.: CBS 11065 Barton, George Aaron., Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, Yale University Press, 1918.
Psychology and perception Auditory pareidolia is a situation created when the brain incorrectly interprets random patterns as being familiar patterns.
The account describes the demon throwing sand over the triangle to breach it, following which it attacked Neuburg 'in the form of a naked savage', forcing him to drive it back at the point of a dagger.
In popular culture The phrase has also been adopted as a title for various works of art, such as the 2014 found-footage horror film As Above, So Below, as well as a number of musical works listed at As above, so below (disambiguation).
In 2010, the thesis was, however, published posthumously as Time, Fate, and Language: An Essay on Free Will.
In The Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd Alexander, a cauldron similar to the Pair Dadeni exists to create undead warriors.
Even Jesus the Nazarene who thought he would be the Messiah and was killed by the court, was already prophesied by Daniel.
In medieval Christianity, the Empyrean was the third heaven and beyond "the heaven of the air and the heaven of the stars." The Empyrean was thus used as a name for the incorporeal "heaven of the first day".
The Turkish TV-station Show TV broadcast the telephone number of an editor who then received daily calls.
Feeling sorry for Owuo, because Owuo had been kind to him, the boy poured the medicine into Owuo's eye, reviving it.
He returns to his kingdom with his family, and in time, Savitri bears a hundred sons, securing their lineage.
The raising of the son of the widow of Zarephath is a miracle of the prophet Elijah recorded in the Hebrew Bible, 1 Kings 17, taking place in the Phoenician city of Zarephath.
In a traditional view, the Messiah was understood to be a human descendant of King David (that is, of the Davidic line).
In 1945 he published a study on Book of Genesis; his subsequent books develop the World Ice Theory in light of other Bible books, the Atlantis myth, and the Tiwanaku archaeological site in Bolivia.
On being requested by the devas, Shiva, along with his attendants and the devas, waged a battle against the danavas, led by Shankhachuda.
HPB: the extraordinary life and influence of Helena Blavatsky, founder of the modern Theosophical movement.
Blavatsky's Theosophy is not the only movement to use the term "theosophy" and this has resulted in scholarly attempts to differentiate the different currents.
The concept that the doomsday argument is susceptible to refutation; if the doomsday argument is not falsifiable then there is no mechanism for refuting it, even if it is false.
The ancient wisdom religion According to Blavatsky's teachings, many of the world's religions have their origins in a universal ancient religion, a "secret doctrine" that was known to Plato and early Hindu sages and which continues to underpin every religion.
Ferber claimed that Plato's Form of the Good could be simultaneously defined and unknown, and be in a state of both "being" and "not being".
In popular culture An invocation of Choronzon forms the basis for a 1980 episode of Hammer House of Horror entitled "Guardian of the Abyss", in which a cult called The Choronzon Society uses John Dee's scrying mirror to conjure Choronzon.
Story The story takes the form of a contest poem between two cultural entities first identified by Kramer as vegetation gods, Emesh and Enten.
A "single moment" of good justifies an eternity of bad, but one extreme cannot have meaning without the other.
Classical sources state that all souls stand before God in pairs before entering the world, and that the “Holy One” unites these couples as intended matches.
Matshishkapeu approached the Caribou Master and asked him to provide the Innu with enough caribou to eat, but the Caribou Master refused.
A great war, which will include an army of both Hindus and Buddhists, will destroy the barbaric forces, states the text.
Waiss Aramesh of Rolling Stone and Mark Savage of BBC News wrote that the song's theme about finding peace and victory was the appropriate closer for the tour, which showcased Swift as having persevered through challenges to reach her stardom.
In it, Rabelais revisited discussions he had had while working as a secretary to Geoffroy d'Estissac earlier in Fontenay–le–Comte, where la querelle des femmes had been a lively subject of debate.
She informed her father that she had chosen an exiled prince named Satyavan as her husband, the son of a blind king named Dyumatsena of the Shalva kingdom; Dyumatsena had been driven out of his kingdom by a foe and led a life of exile as a forest-dweller with his wife Shaivya and son.
Criticism Psychologists and relationship researchers have argued that the belief in a single predestined soulmate can create unrealistic expectations and hinder relationship satisfaction.
In 2004, the government, through the National Committee for the Evaluation of the University System, established several additional non-state, legally recognized universities, including the European University of Rome, founded by the religious institute of the Legionaries of Christ.
The Witch is the daughter of the Atlantides, who in Greek mythology are called the Pleiades, the seven daughters of Atlas and Pleione.
According to legend, the Caribou Master withheld caribou from the Innu out of greed, causing them to begin starving.
A Note on the Pisteis in Aristotle's Rhetoric, 1354-1356', American Journal of Philology (1957): 188-192.
Sinclair Ferguson calls attention to this as an example of a repeated pattern in the history of redemption.
The Catalan historian and archiver Pere Miquel Carbonell denied any historical background of the legendary Knight Otger Cataló in his work Chròniques de Espanya fins ací no divulgades (Unrevealed Chronicles of Spain) (1513), which was printed in 1547.
Production and composition After working together on "Lavender Haze", Antonoff asked Sounwave if he had other materials that they could produce for Midnights.
In "Why I Am So Clever" (Ecce Homo, section 10), he writes:My formula for greatness in a human being is amor fati: that one wants nothing to be different, not forward, not backward, not in all eternity.
After the Anschluss of 1938 both fled to Britain, where he became a BBC-surveillor of German radio broadcasts.
West noted similarities with Aesop's fable "a debate between Winter and Spring" along with another similar work by Bion of Smyrna.
In the Easter Vigil a declaration of faith is integral to the party becoming Catholic, while in baptism the declaration of faith is used to reaffirm the faith of the parents and godparents, and in the name of the child-to-be-baptized, anticipating the mysteries into which they will be incorporated.
Hindus hailing from South India bedeck idols of Vishnu with a garland made of 108 shaligrama shilas.
Hollingdale, who translated Thus Spoke Zarathustra into English, argued that Nietzsche's idea of amor fati originated in the Lutheran Pietism of his childhood.
In the 20th century he became an important element within the mystical system of Thelema, founded by Aleister Crowley, where he is the "dweller in the abyss", believed to be the last great obstacle between the adept and enlightenment.
In Greek mythology, Pistis (; Ancient Greek: Πίστις) was the personification of good faith, trust and reliability.
It teaches that Jewish law is both still valid and indispensable, but also holds to a more open and flexible view of how law has, and should, develop than the Orthodox view.
As Satyavan and Savitri return, Dyumatsena, having regained his sight, searches anxiously for his son.
Taylor to explore new ways of addressing works' religious meanings, according to authors of Religion and Popular Culture (2016).
The conversation begins when two British students ask Neuburg about a version of the story in which Crowley turned him into a zebra and sold him to a zoo.
Religious education teachers Law 186/2003, passed by the Berlusconi government with the support of La Margherita and Udeur, defines the legal status of Catholic religious education teachers at all levels.
Notable declarations of faith include confirmation and adult baptism in Christianity, the Shahada in Islam and the Shema Yisrael in Judaism.
Gengen-Wer or Negeg-Wer (Ngg wr) is an Ancient Egyptian god of creation who appeared like a goose, possibly an Egyptian goose.
Greek rhetoric and Christianity New Testament translators favor the English word "faith" when translating pistis.
In an attempt to demonstrate that different individuals would interpret EVP in the recordings the same way, MacRae asked seven people to compare some selections to a list of five phrases he provided, and to choose the best match.
It is postulated that in each pair, if the two members are true, the missing member cannot also be true, making the paradox a trilemma.
Karandikar and Shree Nath Patankar, Sukanya Savitri (1922) by Kanjibhai Rathod, Sati Savitri (1927) by Baburao Painter, Sati Savitri (1931) by Bidkar.
Biblical account The miracle is described thus in Luke 7: 11 Soon afterwards Jesus went to a town named Nain, accompanied by His disciples and a large crowd.
Christianity Meekness, as understood in the Christian perspective, finds its embodiment in the actions and teachings of Jesus Christ.
In 1971 he finished a book by the deceased right-wing author Rudolf Elmayer von Vestenbrugg (1881–1970) Eingriffe aus den Kosmos (Interventions from Outer Space).
These conflicting results may be due to rapid metabolism of DMT and/or other peculiarities of DMT in different species.
The Yuga Purana mythologizes in greater details the post-Maurya era Indo-Greek and Saka era, while the Manvantara theme containing the Kalki idea is mythologized greater in other Puranas.
Other tablets were added from the "Ur excavations texts" in 1928 along with several others to bring it to its present form.
Crowley explained the method of crafting a Simon Iff story in simple terms: Think of a situation as inexplicable as possible, then to stop up all the chinks with putty, and having satisfied myself that no explanation was possible, to make a further effort and find one.
However, the thoughts of the Creator of the world - there is no power in man to attain them, because our ways are not His ways, nor our thoughts His thoughts.
Plato's Forms are also critiqued for being treated as the reason for all things, as opposed to being an essence in itself.
He represents the hub of creation, the axis mundi (Kunlun) that is the manifestation of the divine order in physical reality, opening the way to immortality.
The interesting paradox is that the Doomsday argument is probably wrong even assuming it to be completely right (in its 95% estimate).
Commentators have noted verbal parallels with the raising of the son of the widow of Nain in the Gospel of Luke chapter 7.
Meekness is an attribute of human nature and behavior that has been defined as an amalgam of righteousness, inner humility, and patience.
Joseph Tamney and his colleagues conducted a study to create a model representing the reasons why or why not individuals support legalised abortion in the American population.
Notwithstanding, there is more than one description of the terms "Milhemet Mitzvah" and "Milhemet Reshut".
Hence worship of shaligrama shila can be afforded by people even in times of hardship and distress as the only mode of worship.
External links Cheira, Edward., Sumerian Epics and Myths, University of Chicago, Oriental Institute Publications, 1934.
In 1936 his first book on the Cosmic Ice Theory (Moons, Myths and Man) was published under the pen-name H.S.
The Five Deities are a cosmological conception of the fivefold manifestation of the supreme God, or his five changing faces, that are elaborated in the classic texts and may originate from the Neolithic.
Barton noted that similar hymns were published by Stephen Herbert Langdon and introduced into Sumerian religion at the time of the Third dynasty of Ur onwards.
The Puranas unequivocally state that worship of Vishnu done through a shaligrama shila yields greater merit than that done through a murti (idol).
During times of war and military conflict, observant Jews are required to both work and fight, to the extent necessary, even on Shabbat, a time where Jews would normally be required to rest.
Story In the story, Shulgi is praised and compared to all manner of animals and wondrous things such as a tree.
His lodge keeper, Hugh Gillies, suffered a number of personal tragedies, including the loss of two children.
Previously, economic treatment was only equated with that of tenured teachers, but all other rights due to civil servants were lacking.
The fire was thought to have started in the kitchen, but nobody was believed to be in the house at the time of the fire and there were no casualties.
Addiction and dependence liability DMT, like other serotonergic psychedelics, is considered to be non-addictive with low abuse potential.
Has it not been repeatedly stated that no human, mortal brain could have invented the life of the Jewish Reformer, followed by the awful drama on Calvary?
In his story of Zéro, Conte Fantastique published in La Silhouette on 3 October 1830, Balzac even adopted Rabelais's pseudonym (Alcofribas).
For example, in Sikhism, god's grace, gained through worship, can erase one's karmic debts, a belief which reconciles the principle of karma with a monotheistic god one must freely choose to worship.
His books investigate the work of Austrian engineer Hanns Hörbiger and German selenographer Philipp Fauth and the now-defunct Cosmic Ice (Glacial Cosmogony) Theory.
It is used throughout the Hebrew Bible in reference to a wide variety of individuals and objects; for example, kings, priests and prophets, the altar in the Temple, vessels, unleavened bread, and even a non-Jewish king (Cyrus the Great).
Her home, the Atlas Mountains, are a range that stretches across north Africa, from Morocco and Algeria to Tunisia.
At 1 Kings 15:12 the Septuagint hellenises them as teletai – personifications of the presiding spirits at the initiation rites of the Bacchic orgies.
This type of view is found in many philosophical systems world-wide, the most relevant here being ancient Greek and Hellenistic philosophy, where notable proponents included Anaximander (c.
She contacted Ice Spice personally to ask her to collaborate on "Karma", to which the rapper accepted immediately.
and Vanstiphout, Herman L.J., (eds.), Dispute Poems and Dialogues in the Ancient and Medieval Near East (Orientalia Lovaniensia Analecta, 42), Peeters: Leuven, 1991, 23–46: commentary Vanstiphout, Herman L.J., "Sumerian Canonical Compositions.
Applicability in modern times The categories of milhemet mitzvah (religious war) and milhemet reshut (voluntary war) were applied by the later rabbis to describe wars occurring in earlier times, led by or against the kings of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah.
Throughout the restoration work traditional building techniques and materials were used in order to preserve its historic integrity.
The Agni Purana describes Kalki's role: Kalki, as the son of Viṣṇuyaśas, (and having) Yājñavalkya as the priest would destroy the non-Aryans, holding the astra (weapon) and having a weapon.
Early interest American photographer Attila von Szalay was among the first to try recording what he believed to be voices of the dead as a way to augment his investigations in photographing ghosts.
The depiction here illustrates this important aspect of the conceptual background of prophetic authority.
Atkinson, 1862–1932, a pioneer of the New Thought movement), the paraphrase started to take on a life of its own, becoming an often cited motto in New Age circles.
Influence Plato's writings on the meaning of virtue and justice permeate through the Western philosophical tradition.
Unlike milkhemet reshut wars, which tended to be fought to expand territory or for economic reasons and had exemption clauses, milhemet mitzvah tended to be invoked in defensive wars, when vital interests were at risk.
He concludes that the pattern repetition: "comes to its fullness in the person of Jesus Christ, the great prophet who heals not merely through delegated authority from God, but on his own authority, without rituals or prayers, but with a simple word of power.
Jesus said to the dead man, "Young man, I say to thee, arise!" And he who was dead, sat up and began to talk, and Jesus gave him back to his mother.
It covers early emperors until Emperor Ojin, the first definitively known historical emperor, see family tree of Japanese monarchs for a continuation of the royal line into historical times.
He then points to the cat and asks the boy what it is called, and the boy replies "Muhammad the cat".
However, in 1919 the Church was marred by police investigations into allegations that six of its priests had engaged in acts of pedophilia and Wedgewood—who was implicated in the allegations—resigned from the organization.
events that could not be predicted by sole knowledge of other events, is an idea still compatible with fatalism.
Owuo's birthday is on wednesday and because of this those born on Wednesday are said to be evil and have bad blood in them.
Simon Iff is the protagonist of a series of short detective stories written by occultist Aleister Crowley.
The following topics pertain to eschatology, a part of theology, physics, philosophy and futurology concerned with what are believed to be the final events of human history, the ultimate destiny of humanity — commonly referred to as the "end of the world" or "end time".
The hymn ends with extensive praisings of the hoe, Enlil, and Nisaba: "The hoe makes everything prosper; the hoe makes everything flourish.
While the conception of a supreme, happy and blessed god was the most popular during his time, Epicurus rejected such a notion, as he considered it too heavy a burden for a god to have to worry about all the problems in the world.
Other prophets of Islam, and Muhammad's wives and relations, may be treated in similar ways if they also appear.
According to Camus's philosophy of absurdism, the human condition is analogous to the curse of Sisyphus, who in ancient Greek mythology was condemned to eternally repeat the task of pushing a boulder up a hill only to watch it roll back down again.
Esquisse de l'histoire secrète des religions [The Great Initiates: A Study of the Secret History of Religions] (in French).
There is an edition of The Scutinies of Simon Iff published by Teitan Press; while a 2012 Wordsworth Editions release under their "Tales of Mystery & the Supernatural" line, contains the complete works.
Aristotle's criticism Aristotle discusses the Forms of Good in critical terms several times in both of his major surviving ethical works, the Eudemian and Nicomachean Ethics.
Certain categories of sinners are spoken of as having "no part in the world to come", but this appears to mean annihilation rather than an eternity of torment.
Extensions In 2001 Bradley Monton and Sherrilyn Roush extended this by arguing that Gott's doomsday argument inevitably refutes itself.
Kelly maintains that medical professionals are morally obligated to use ordinary means to preserve the lives of their patients, but extraordinary care is not morally obligatory.
Mary Cross also reported that others accused her as "a source of moral contagion" to children and families.
It began as a protest against the action of Comedy Central in forbidding the broadcast of the South Park episode "201" in response to death threats against some of those responsible for the segment.
Family tree See also Family tree of Japanese monarchs List of Japanese deities Kamiumi Notes == References ==
"Yes, I do believe that the chosen people concept as affirmed by Judaism in its holy writ, its prayers, and its millennial tradition.
By 1520, he was at Fontenay-le-Comte in Poitou where he became friends with Pierre Lamy, a fellow Franciscan, and corresponded with Guillaume Budé, who observed that he was already competent in law.
"Transforming the Stereotype: Exotic Women in Shelley's Alastor and The Witch of Atlas." The Foreign Women in British Literature.
DMT inhibited SERT-mediated serotonin uptake into platelets at an average concentration of 4.00 ± 0.70 μmol/L and VMAT2-mediated serotonin uptake at an average concentration of 93 ± 6.8 μmol/L.
He also taught that additional Messiahs, or "Manifestations of God", will appear in the distant future, but the next one would not appear until after the lapse of "a full thousand years".
The "free soul" is said to leave the body and journey to the spirit world during trance-like states, sleep, delirium, death, and insanity.
From the 7th century onwards, the idea of the Empyrean gained traction in the faith because of writers like Isidore of Seville and Bede.
Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2014/07/01/map-where-islamic-veils-are-banned-and-where-they-are-mandatory/ Stokes, C.
Kings were so sure that the Senyal Reial belonged to the lineage of the Earls of Barcelona that they publicly expressed it.
Summary The childless king of the Madra Kingdom, Ashvapati, engaged in penance for eighteen years and offered a hundred thousand oblations to propitiate Savitri, a consort of Brahma.
See also Astrological compatibility Interpersonal relationship Red thread of fate Romantic friendship == References ==
Seeing that the Irish were using the cauldron to revive their dead, he hid among the Irish corpses and was thrown into the cauldron by the Irish.
According to a 2016 study by the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, depaving is common on rural roads as a cost-saving measure due to the high cost of maintaining paved surfaces.
Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts In the Carpenter Center the Modulor system was used for the brise-soleil distances, the floor to floor heights, the bay distances and the column thicknesses.
hydrocarbons) or an electron donor (commonly an organic substrate) is added to reduce oxidized pollutants (nitrate, perchlorate, oxidized metals, chlorinated solvents, explosives and propellants).
Recipients of Walter Burley Griffin Award for Urban Design Distribution of Awards From 1988 to 2025 almost 90% of awards presented (34 of 38) were located in Victoria and New South Wales.
It represents the adaptation and application of customary management practices, with the intention of achieving a productive [engineering design process].
At one time, half of the world's oysters were harvested in the New York Harbor." The goal of a billion oysters seems ambitious, but pales to the number of oysters that populated the waters in colonial times: 3 trillion oysters, and 300,000,000,000,000,000,000 annual spawn of oyster larvae.
The Buttenheim Brothers, Harold and Edgar, also founded the American City Bureau, which raised funds for local Community Chests, YMCA and YWCAs, and similar agencies.
The Planets are made from stone and range in size from Jupiter at several hundred kilograms to Pluto at only a few grams, and ranges within an area of 30 kilometres (19 mi) from the village of Reine in Moskenes Municipality to the village of Nordland in Værøy Municipality.
The objective of institutional governance is to achieve equilibrium (‘Ethical Equilibrium’) among the three areas.
Unlike instructional videos on YouTube or the one-way communication on many how-to sites, Hometalk is a community where members can ask questions about projects and get responses within minutes.
This agency enforces a set of regulations surrounding the installation of a beehive in order to protect the health of colonies, but these rules are rarely restrictive enough to deter committed hobbyists.
As molecular weight of the compound increases, the resistance to biodegradation increases simultaneously.
First Fridays happy hours become a way for these professionals to meet in a social atmosphere while exchanging useful information.
Projects must be constructed and complete and able to demonstrate how they have improved place and resulted in broad public benefit.
A few university student projects have investigated Hügelkultur, but those results have not made it into the peer-reviewed literature.
Carmina Campus She bought a country estate of about 430 acres in Northern Rome, I Casali del Pino, and while converting the farm to organic cultivation she became increasingly involved with environmental issues and creative reuse of wasted materials.
The sanitary movement of urban planning began in the United Kingdom in 1838, with the Central Poor Law Commission's findings on the "physical causes of fever in the Metropolis which might be prevented by proper sanitary measures".
He also designed the landscaping for the AIDS Memorial, Cawthra Park, itself designed by Patrick Fahn.
She also collaborated with Socially MadeinItaly, an Italian non-profit organization that operates in Italian prisons, to support a joint rehabilitation program involving the production of a special Carmina Campus bag collection made in prison hubs that was first launched in February 2015.
Collings also advocated the education of women, signing a petition seeking to award degrees to female students at the University of Cambridge in 1880.
The documentary film Alt Flyter (Panta Rei) by Lars Nilssen follows Wanggaard during the realization process of Planet Lofoten over a period of three years.
In order to maintain a strategic, long-term vision necessary for adequate metropolitan planning, the Plan has to be revised/adapted every 4 years, but the horizon (24 years, in this example) should remain the constant.
Controversies First Friday events focusing on the arts have often come under attack for specific components of the events that are politically popular such as drag shows, explicit art, among others.
The nature and behavior of markets depend somewhat on their locations therefore market performance partly depends on geography.(McCann 2001:1).
Some cities, including Portland, charge impervious pavement fees to cover the cost of dealing with runoff, which incentivizes depaving.
A park system, also known as an open space system, is a network of parks and other green spaces that are connected by public walkways, bridleways or cycleways.
The collected honey from the harvest can later be sold directly to the same community, strengthening the local economy.
On copper roofing or flashing, reapplication as infrequently as once every three years can effectively retard patina formation.
Urban River Restoration Urban rivers contain biodiversity, control flooding, and support communities.
Avanti c'è posto (Move on, there's room ahead!), Roma, it:Donzelli Editore, 2008 (with it:Walter Tocci and Domitilla Morandi), ISBN 978-88-6036-276-6.
In 2016, Hometalk was voted #1 in The Next Web's list of "60 of the fastest growing companies in tech".
Basing its sanitation beliefs on miasma theory (as opposed to germ theory), its agenda was based on the construction of sewage systems, street-paving, and the provision of clean water.
His second state visit to the Ottoman Empire (after the first in 1889, before his last in 1917) started in its capital Istanbul on 18 October 1898 during the reign of Abdülhamid II.
Bacon Public Lectureship and White Paper Award, University of California Sacramento Center, 2015–16.
in Charleroi; Royal Museum for Central Africa; Rolling stock on rails:-Brusame Light rail vehicles:- Nantes, Grenoble, Strasbourg, Orléans streetcar, Hydraulic power stations Centralized operating centers, control towers.
Formats for these deliverables are covered in Data Item Descriptions (DIDs) that define the data content, format, and data usages.
It is defined as education practices that encourage changes in knowledge, skills, values, and attitudes to enable a more sustainable and just society for humanity.
As the efficiency of photovoltaic panels and passive solar heating is sensitive to shading, experts suggest the complete absence of trees near the south side.
An explorative study results concluded that the perceived quality of life of residents in eco-developments rated higher perceived quality of life than residents of developments in conventional settings while still noting various challenges they experienced.
The Tamera community attributes their success to their Women's Council who confront patriarchal norms and empower women within the governance system.
His work has been incorporated into a diverse collection of museums, including the Ghent Design Museum.
Challenges and concerns Due to the increase in artificial beehives in London notably, there is mounting evidence that honey bees are greatly outnumbering wild pollinators.
Salt marshes, mangroves and beaches also support a diversity of plants, animals and insects crucial to the food chain.
And its high scrap value and ability to be continuously recycled without any loss in performance ensure its responsible management as a valuable resource.
Karen Chapple is an American city planning academic and director of the School of Cities at the University of Toronto.
Multiple certifications In September 2012, The Crystal in London became the world's first building awarded LEED Platinum and BREEAM Outstanding status.
Arborsculpture In 1995, Reames coined the word "arborsculpture" to describe tree-trunk sculptural modifications as art.
These and other speakers will gather in Singapore to address issues on the practical aspects of city governance and integrated approaches to urban development under the Summit's theme of ‘Liveable and Sustainable Cities for the Future’.
Media Hometalk is often featured across various media outlets, such as Huffington Post, Country Living, Fox & Friends, NBC, and The Today Show.
Chapple has also served on the faculties of the University of Minnesota and the University of Pennsylvania.
Over time, microbial communities within the soil matrix adapt to local pollutant loads, enhancing the long-term treatment efficiency of the system.
The American City was an American municipal affairs and urban planning magazine published by Buttenheim Publication Corporation from 1909 through 1942.
The design re-imagined Bingham Canyon Mine, the world's largest open pit mine, as a monumental work of land art.
When distributed throughout a site, infiltration can significantly help maintain the site's natural hydrology.
It also requires participatory teaching and learning methods that motivate and empower learners to change their behaviours and take action for sustainable development.
More information about biodiversity conservation in Singapore is available from the National Biodiversity Centre Archived 2010-03-11 at the Wayback Machine.
These included an open and green setting without crowding or congestion, with access to clean air, water, and exercise opportunities, as well as not having dark and unventilated buildings or polluting industries in built-up areas.
The city of Leuven, Belgium is planning depaving as part of its Leuven2050 plan to become carbon-neutral and combat the urban heat island effect.
Awarded projects must have enhanced the quality of the built environment or public domain or contribute to the wellbeing of the broader community.' In addition to the named award, the jury also can present National Awards for Urban Design and National Commendations for Urban Design.
Intentional design Equipment used for toilet training such as a potty chair will typically include a urine deflector to ensure that the urine does not splash forward and outside the receptacle.
Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA's) Safer Choice label, previously known as the Design for the Environment (DfE) label, helps consumers and commercial buyers identify and select products with safer chemical ingredients, without sacrificing quality or performance.
Projects can range in scale and scope, but all should be strategic, innovative, deliverable, and able to demonstrate how they will improve the qualities of place and result in broader public benefits.
Benefits LID has multiple benefits, such as protecting animal habitats, improving management of runoff and flooding, and reducing impervious surfaces.
Industrial clustering, e.g., concentration of technology firms in Silicon Valley, how firms benefit from being close to each other (due to sharing labour markets, suppliers, knowledge) cities with different economic roles.
Meanwhile, he had married Anna Maria Bozzola (architect, in the early 1960s was the author of a book series on arts education which became a reference in the freshly reformed Italian lower secondary school); she would be his partner during all his life.
London's Soho district was painted in this way in 2022 and Westminster council's full programme of deterrence also included posters, punishment and provision of more public toilets.
Life and career Steenson is a historian of design, architecture, and the history of those concepts alongside cybernetics and artificial intelligence.
The publication was primarily concerned with the design, care, and maintenance of civic infrastructure such as roads, parks, public buildings and public safety design.
It contains one 24-direction ring, known as the Earth Plate Correct Needle, the ring for the 64 hexagrams, and others.
The Sun takes approximately 15.2 days to traverse a solar term, a series of 24 points on the ecliptic.
Work Reames uses basic tools and ancient grafting techniques to produce his works of arborsculpture, furniture and functional objects.
Of the works leading to the creation of the Modulor, Robin Evans notes that the female body "was only belatedly considered and rejected as a source of proportional harmony".
Architectural styles often spread to other places, so that the style at its source continues to develop in new ways while other countries follow with their own twist.
Reames coined the word "arborsculpture" to describe the art of shaping living tree trunks and woody plants into sculptural forms, furniture and shelters.
The project was certified by Italy's Ministry of Justice and initially involved four prison hubs that later became eleven.
Restoration efforts The lake was gradually occupied by land grabbers and converted into a dump yard for construction debris, garbage, sewage discharge and covered in water hyacinth.
Collings ensured that Chamberlain, Mayor of Birmingham and a millionaire industrialist, chaired the meeting in Birmingham to support the Agricultural Workers' first strike.
Issues that tie urban transportation to urban economics include the deficit that most transit authorities have and efficiency questions about proposed transportation developments such as light-rail (O'Sullivan 2003:14).
Also, the engineer Iannis Xenakis applied the Modulor system to the design of the exterior vertical ventilators or "ondulatoires".
Until recent local-government reforms many cathedral closes still functioned as separate administrative units: St.
The Award is presented by the Planning Institute of Australia, Australian Institute of Architects and the Australian Institute of Landscape Architects.
The largest continuous urban parks system in North America is the North Saskatchewan River valley parks system in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, which is 7,400 ha (18,000 acres) in size and 48 km (30 mi) in length, and also includes 22 ravines, which have a combined total length of 103 km (64 mi).
Celebrate Fall Annually, the Arboretum hosts a celebration of autumn with events such as cidering, seasonal cooking demonstrations and pumpkin carving.
Each project stage is assessed using a different tool: The early stage tool, a screening tool for potential hydropower projects The preparation tool, which covers planning and design, management plans and commitments.
It normally had gates which were locked at night or when there were disturbances in the wider city, hence the name – "close" in the sense of "something enclosed".
It will look holistically at the processes in the countryside and help to find best grassland management solutions by taking into account both natural and socioeconomic factors of the particular site.
The lake is polluted with various chemicals and also used as a garbage dump by the residential colonies surrounding it.
A cathedral close is the area immediately around a cathedral, sometimes extending for a hundred metres or more from the main cathedral building.
In some cities this monthly event may occur on the first Saturday of each month instead of Friday or on "Third Thursdays".
A conventional compass has markings for four or eight directions, while a luopan typically contains markings for 24 directions.
David's cathedral close, in Pembrokeshire, counted as a separate civil parish distinct from that of the adjacent village-city for some 50 years after the 1914 disestablishment of the Church in Wales.
She argues that our ideas of artificial intelligence are outdated and this inhibits peoples' ability to understand what it really is.
From the Balkans to Spain, and from Malta to Estonia, these buildings represent an important part of European heritage.
Urban Planning relates the rights and dues of the population (land ownership and its rights) to the urban structure under the responsibility of the Local Authority.
Sustainable landscaping is a modern type of gardening or landscaping that takes the environmental issue of sustainability into account.
It is also important to be careful about what materials you use, especially if you plan to grow food crops.
Waterway restoration is the activity of restoring a canal or river, including special features such as warehouse buildings, locks, boat lifts, and boats.
At the present time, canal restoration in the UK is carried out by a mixture of volunteers and professionals working on a large variety of projects.
In addition DFARS 252.242–7001 and 252.242–7002 provide guidance for integrating IMP/IMS with Earned Value Management.
https://www.politico.com/newsletters/politico-china-watcher/2022/01/27/putins-ukraine-playbook-is-xis-taiwan-primer-00002608 External links Official website
Marble, stone and gem parts of the fountain were constructed in Germany and transported piece by piece to Istanbul by ships.
The Spanish mission style was revived 100 years later as the Mission Revival, and that soon evolved into the Spanish Colonial Revival.
Neerman was a professor at the National Higher Institute of Architecture and Urbanism in Antwerp until 1995.
If left untreated, these nutrients contribute to eutrophication in downstream aquatic systems, leading to algal blooms and oxygen depletion.
Additionally, heavy metals may adsorb to soil particles in the bioretention media as the runoff filters through.
It was also admired by Frederick Law Olmsted and used to create the famous Emerald Necklace in Boston.
Though they were unsuccessful in that project they did find another downtown lot on which a garden was created and named in his memory, the Alex Wilson Community Garden, which opened in June 1998 at 552 Richmond Street West in Toronto.
The geographical comparative advantage that requires a logistic intermodal node has been the economic and social base on which metropolises grow.
Susie Reeves expanded the gardens, guided by prominent landscape architects Ellen Biddle Shipman (1924) and Carl F.
For instance, Renaissance ideas emerged in Italy around 1425 and spread to all of Europe over the next 200 years, with the French, German, English, and Spanish Renaissances showing recognisably the same style, but with unique characteristics.
The forum jointly reviewed, enhanced and built consensus on what a sustainable hydropower project should look like.
Philippe Neerman (1930–2011) was a Belgian industrial designer and President of Industrial Design Planning Office Philippe Neerman & Co.
Depaving, also known as desealing, is the act of removing impermeable surfaces such as parking lots and replacing with a permeable surface, especially green space.
Planet Lofoten is a Land Art Installation of the Solar System positioned in the open nature of West Lofoten in Northern Norway.
Energy conservation may be achieved by placing broadleaf deciduous trees near the east, west and optionally north-facing walls of the house.
Architectural Technologists practice independently on Part 9 buildings (housing and small buildings), and support architects, and engineers on larger, more complex Part 3 buildings.
UNESCO formulated a distinction between the two concepts as follows: "Sustainability is often thought of as a long-term goal (i.e.
The 2004 reprinted box set including both books was printed in a square format using the Modulor with the series twenty seven to one hundred and forty reduced in size to one tenth.
A third study used a Bayesian decision support system to both model the uncertainty in the scientific information Bayes Nets and to assist collecting and fusing the input from stakeholders.
This evolution can for example be seen in the transition from the Millennium Development Goals (years 2000 to 2015) to the Sustainable Development Goals (years 2015 to 2030).
In 2014, architect Gwen Fuertes and engineer Stefano Schiavon developed the first study that analyzes plug loads using LEED-documented data from certified projects.
Over a period of three years he constructed an octagonal two-story log house, 24 feet in diameter, using dead standing trees and native stone for the foundation.
EPA Low Impact Development Urban Design Tools - Low Impact Development Center, Beltsville, MD Alberta Low Impact Development Partnership - Alberta Low Impact Development Partnership, Alberta, Canada.
Naming of the award The award is named after United States born architect and landscape architect Walter Burley Griffin (1876–1937), designer of Australia's capital, Canberra.
They may be constructed in various ways from a variety of materials but are typically designed to have an angled surface which catches and redirects the stream.
Since 2003, all of Insolera's professional documents, designs, photos and writings have been deemed of public interest and protected by the Italian Superintendence of Archives.
Tar canals The tar canals in Kajaani were canals and locks built to pass the Koivukoski and Ämmäkoski rapids.
Publications Books Architectural Intelligence: How Designers & Architects Created the Digital Landscape (MIT Press, 2017) Bauhaus Futures (MIT Press, 2019), co-edited with Laura Forlano & Mike Ananny.
On an urban lot near his house Wilson created a reclaimed garden that, after his death, friends tried to buy and preserve.
Other motivations for depaving include providing habitat for wildlife, combating climate change or increasing quality of life by replacing underutilized paved areas with green space.
2010 The second biennial World Cities Summit (WCS) 2010, to be held from 28 June to 1 July, returns with an even larger number of leading international speakers, representing diverse cities in the Americas, Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
In 2003 she therefore decided to leave the family firm to dedicate herself to nature and the environment, a passion inherited in childhood from her father.
Government and Contractor acquisition team as the day-to-day tools for the planning, executing, and tracking program technical, schedule, and cost status, including risk mitigation efforts.
The town of Bingham, Utah, was eventually swallowed by the expanding man-made chasm, which would come to be known as "The Richest Hole on Earth" and the largest man-made excavation in the world.
See also History of urban planning Sanitation History of water supply and sanitation History of public health == References ==
In 2012, the company relaunched the Hometalk website with several new features resulting in the acquisition of more than 100,000 members and 400,000 Facebook fans.
Thus, in the short term, the fertility of the soil may be decreased before, eventually, perhaps after one to two years, the nitrogen level is increased past the original level.
As he indicated himself in the mid-1950s, several fellow designers were won over to the goal of having a Brussels-based DC.
Architectural works, in the material form of buildings, are often perceived as cultural symbols and as works of art.
The railway could provide a short and quick route from Europe to Asia, and could carry German exports, troops and artillery.
Alexander Wilson (25 May 1953 – 26 October 1993) was a writer, teacher, landscape designer, and community activist.
One small scale and short term student project investigated the Hügelkultur method as a potential use for yard trimmings waste, and also if lima beans, kale and okra planted on a Hügelkultur mound showed any signs of nutrient deficiency compared to a non-raised control bed.
Scuppers are used to provide an outlet through parapet walls or gravel stops on flat and built-up roofs to allow drainage of excess water.
The released water carried the freshly-buried logs and dirt downhill, smashing a hole in a building being used as a church and filling the space with mud.
Scientists have constructed a high-quality, chromosome-scale genome of Pinctada fucata to identify genes crucial for survival and immunity.
Role and responsibility Design management is not a standard model that can be projected onto every enterprise, nor is there a specific way of applying it that leads to guaranteed success.
Education Chapple received an undergraduate degree in Urban Studies at Columbia University, a Masters of Science in Community and Regional Planning from Pratt Institute and a Ph.D.
Personal life Bawa was intelligent, well-connected and an acute social observer with a flair for art.
Ireland In Ireland, the Royal Institute of the Architects of Ireland RIAI declares being the leading professional body for Architectural Technologists in Ireland.
Nonetheless, the traditional and popular approach to the architectural history is through chronology of styles, with changes reflecting the evolution of materials, economics, fashions, and beliefs.
Hence, Singapore's Minister for National Development, Mr Mah Bow Tan, proposed the establishment of an index to measure biodiversity in cities at the 9th Meeting of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in Bonn, Germany in May 2008.
The largest urban parks system in Australia is the Western Sydney Parklands, which is 5,280 ha (13,000 acres) in size and 27 km (17 mi) in length.
In architecture stylistic change often follows, and is made possible by, the discovery of new techniques or materials, from the Gothic rib vault to modern metal and reinforced concrete construction.
The scorecard expresses three global goals of climate action (worth 50% of the certification points), quality of life (25%) and conservation and ecological restoration (25%) in terms of five principles: decarbonization, ecosystems, equity, health and resilience.
Payment and trading of services is an emerging worldwide small-scale solution where one can acquire credits for activities such as sponsoring the protection of carbon sequestration sources or the restoration of ecosystem service providers.
He also played host to a number of international visitors including Laurence Olivier, Vivien Leigh, the Duke of Windsor, Agatha Christie and Australian artist Donald Friend (who originally planned to stay for a week and ended up staying for six years).
Characteristics For ease of transport when using machinery like forwarders on sloped terrain, the logging trail often follows the gradient of the terrain to a logging road or street for further transport of the wood.
His father Filadelfo, a university teacher, ranked amongst the few who introduced the financial and actuarial science in Italy.
Reporting Formats The IMP is often called out as a contract data deliverable on United States Department of Defense materiel acquisitions, as well as other U.S.
Other remediation techniques include thermal desorption, vitrification, air stripping, bioleaching, rhizofiltration, and soil washing.
Newsham et al (2013) carried out an evaluation using both occupant interviews and physical site measurements.
This arrangement was admired in France and adopted for the nineteenth century re-planning of Paris by Baron Haussmann.
As of 2025 Earthaven Ecovillage has over 75 adults and 25 children living off the grid on 329 acres of land.
Her current research focuses on the idea of artificial intelligence and how it's viewed and portrayed in contemporary media and culture.
In terrain steeper than 30% logging trails are usually constructed parallel to the contour of the terrain.
The decay of the oyster reefs have been inhibiting stabilization and causing eroding of the sand bar.
He believed that combining ecological restoration and community gardening could be a way to nurture and improve not only urban ecosystems, but also social and economic relations.
Pre-treatment Pre-treatment is recommended to remove pollutants such as trash, debris, and larger sediments.
In other cities such as Vienna, barriers such as iron railings and spikes have been used to keep people away from attractive corners and crannies.
The mine's massive spiraling cavity was already sympathetic to Smithson's aesthetics and he did not plan to alter it.
Back in Rome she entered the family firm becoming Accessories Creative Director of the Fendissime young line and also Fendi Shoe Designer, a position she maintained after the company was sold to the French group LVMH.
Managing design for innovation (2000s–2010s) Design management has taken a more strategic role within business since 2000, and more academic programs for design management have been established.
Land reform Collings' background in Devon gave him an appreciation of the problems of the agricultural worker and small-scale farmer rare in a major industrial city like Birmingham.
Two category of genes can be inserted in the organism: degradative genes, which encode proteins required for the degradation of pollutants, and reporter genes, which encode proteins able to monitor pollution levels.
Sustainability, the long-term maintenance of responsibility, requires the reconciliation of environmental, social equity and economic demands.
Application Background The construction of a dam, power plant and reservoir creates social and physical changes in the surrounding area.
John and Isabelle Wisner, whose three children had been born in China, hired New York architects Babb, Cook and Willard to build a Colonial Revival house, sited facing south with extensive views over the rolling hills.
Reames, like the artist Konstantin Kirsch, has been exploring sustainable, living architecture using tree branches to form latticeworks that can be trained and designed into cylindrical, multi-room dwellings.
It is used to decorate or ornament landscapes for aesthetic reasons, and are typically found in gardens, parks and the grounds of stately homes.
Gorb produced two books based on seminars at the Design Management Unit at LBS, Design Talks (1988) with Eric Schneider and Design Management: Papers from the London Business School (1990).
Safer Choice is a voluntary partnership program that is grounded in more than 40 years of EPA experience in evaluating the human health and environmental characteristics of chemicals.
He was one of the initial officers of the newly formed Ceylon Army and one of only nine Majors in the army at the time.
The costs of acquiring land, implementing sustainable infrastructure, and maintaining communal facilities can be prohibitive for some individuals or groups making available funds a limiting factor.
This water-repellent coating causes the stream to rebound at a similar angle and so wet the offender.
At the time of Smithson's unsolicited proposal in 1973, Kennecott Copper Corporation was contemplating different remediation projects in anticipation of federally imposed regulations.
The Pilot Project in Florida conducted a restoration project that consisted of testing two conservation techniques.
He published several books and essays dealing with the economic, social and cultural circumstances and conditions of urban development, and the use of the ancient town in the framework of metropolitan development.
Since 2014, the Arboretum has used a small herd of Nubian goats to remove excess vegetation and weeds.
He had one younger brother, Geoffrey Bawa (1919–2003) ten years his junior, who is regarded as being one of the most important and influential Asian architects of the twentieth century.
The movement spread to the United States in the 1840s, reaching its peak in 1880 before declining in the 1890s.
Safer Choice further requires its partners to undergo annual reviews, including on-site audits, to verify product ingredients and ensure compliance with all Safer Choice Program requirements.
A logging trail is a type of unpaved trail used to transport logged wood by means of machinery or horse power.
The Sun is still in the construction process and will be a 7-metre (23 ft) diameter sphere made from steel circles, and will be placed at Reine in Lofoten.
Collings called for Local Authorities to be obliged to set up sufficient schools to enable all children to attend; these schools should be inspected by the state and managed by local government; they should be free; and attendance should be compulsory.
According to a 2015 report, oyster reefs have been the most damaged biotic community for the past 50 years.
Beehives are maintained at many sites such as Seoul National University, Porsche Korea, Hilton Seoul Pangyo, and the National Assembly Library.
Léon Krier frames the dominance of traditional styles in private architecture as an "overwhelming democratic reality," contrasting with the prevalence of modernist designs in public commissions.
Some have criticised the technique as lacking genuine scientific principles, and running counter to the ecological principles of soil building with litterfall.
Within this framework, urban and regional economists have focused on the increasing impact of virtual business-to-business (B2B) marketplaces on conventional location-based economic market forces.
At first, progress was slow due to the lack of funding, with most of the work having to be done manually by volunteers.
The rule is believed to be the work of Johann Bernoulli, since l'Hôpital, a nobleman, paid Bernoulli a retainer of 300₣ per year to keep him updated on developments in calculus and to solve problems he had.
Leibniz then asserts that different principles and geometry cannot simply be from the will of God, but must follow from his understanding.
Influence Madhava has been called "the greatest mathematician-astronomer of medieval India", some of his discoveries in this field show him to have possessed extraordinary intuition".
Leibniz used the principle to extend concepts such as arithmetic operations from ordinary numbers to infinitesimals, laying the groundwork for infinitesimal calculus.
As Diophantus V.11 shows, it means an approximate equality, and this is indeed how Fermat explains the word in one of his later writings." (Weil 1973).
Contributions to mathematics Wallis made significant contributions to trigonometry, calculus, geometry, and the analysis of infinite series.
4th century - The Pappus's centroid theorem, 5th century - Zu Chongzhi established a method that would later be called Cavalieri's principle to find the volume of a sphere.
{{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) Molland, George (2004) "Swineshead, Richard", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography
"Derivation of remainder term for the Series expansion of π as depicted in Yukthibhasa and its modern Interpretation".
External links Works by or about Nicole Oresme at the Internet Archive (SPC) MSS BH 100 COCH Volume of works by Nicole Oresme, Maffeo Vegio, and Jordanus von Osnabrück at OPenn Kirschner, Stefan (2021).
Berkeley's farmhouse in Middletown, Rhode Island, is preserved as Whitehall Museum House, also known as Berkeley House, and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1970.
Niels Henrik Abel called him a "bigoted Catholic" and added he was "mad and there is nothing that can be done about him", but at the same time praised him as a mathematician.
Very often Ibn al-Haytham's discoveries benefited from the intersection of mathematical and experimental contributions.
The section contains Newton's proof that a massive spherically symmetrical body attracts other bodies outside itself as if all its mass were concentrated at its centre.
Much of his vast correspondence, especially the letters dated after 1700, remains unpublished, and much of what is published has appeared only in recent decades.
That academy evolved into the German Academy of Sciences, the publisher of the ongoing Leibniz-Edition of his works.
The volume of the cube (red) minus the volume of the eight pyramids (blue) is the volume of the bicylinder (white).
Generally, in English-language books, limits go to the right of the integral symbol: ∫ 0 5 f ( t ) d t , ∫ g ( t ) = a g ( t ) = b f ( t ) d t .
The transfer principle provides a mathematical implementation of the law of continuity in the context of the hyperreal numbers.
Leibniz's formulation Leibniz expressed the law in the following terms in 1701: In any supposed continuous transition, ending in any terminus, it is permissible to institute a general reasoning, in which the final terminus may also be included (Cum Prodiisset).
That is done as follows: Consider a sphere of radius r {\displaystyle r} and a cylinder of radius r {\displaystyle r} and height r {\displaystyle r} .
Writings Archimedes made his work known through correspondence with mathematicians in Alexandria, which were originally written in Doric Greek, the dialect of ancient Syracuse.
As calculus developed further, infinitesimals were replaced by limits, which can be calculated using the standard real numbers.
In mathematics, an infinitesimal number is a non-zero quantity that is closer to 0 than any non-zero real number is.
He is also credited with designing innovative machines, such as his screw pump, compound pulleys, and defensive war machines to protect his native Syracuse from invasion.
More specifically, the colour red can be perceived in apples, strawberries, and tomatoes, yet we would not know what these might look like without its colour.
Marking a quarter circle at twenty-four equal intervals, he gave the lengths of the half-chord (sines) corresponding to each of them.
In 1675 he tried to get admitted to the French Academy of Sciences as a foreign honorary member, but it was considered that there were already enough foreigners there and so no invitation came.
the great question of the power of sovereigns and the obedience their peoples owe them, I usually say that it would be good for princes to be persuaded that their people have the right to resist them, and for the people, on the other hand, to be persuaded to obey them passively.
Oresme agrees with fluxus formae in that motion is attributed to an object, but that an object is "set into" motion, rather than "given" motion, denying a distinction between a motionless object and an object in motion.
As a professor of the École Polytechnique, Cauchy had been a notoriously bad lecturer, assuming levels of understanding that only a few of his best students could reach, and cramming his allotted time with too much material.
So, the final equation gets the form: y ˙ = Δ y Δ t = 4 o o = 4 {\displaystyle {\dot {y}}={\frac {\Delta y}{\Delta t}}={\frac {4o}{o}}=4} He justified the use of ⁠ o {\displaystyle o} ⁠ as a non-zero quantity by stating that fluxions were a consequence of movement by an object.
But nevertheless integrating this term-by-term gives (1), an identity which is known to be true by Fourier analysis.
600 - Liu Zhuo is the first person to use second-order interpolation for computing the positions of the sun and the moon.
Moscow, Nauka, 1970 Zbl 0263.01002 External links O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Guillaume de l'Hôpital", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews
Criticism Bishop George Berkeley, a prominent philosopher of the time, denounced Newton's fluxions in his essay The Analyst, published in 1734.
Archimedes also derives several formulae for determining the area and volume of various solids including sphere, cone, paraboloid and hyperboloid.
Archimedes' principle of buoyancy is given in this work, stated as follows: Any body wholly or partially immersed in fluid experiences an upthrust equal to, but opposite in direction to, the weight of the fluid displaced.
Extensions of the symbol Related symbols include: Typography in other languages In other languages, the shape of the integral symbol differs slightly from the shape commonly seen in English-language textbooks.
He was from Gascony, where his father, Dominique Fermat, was a wealthy leather merchant and served three one-year terms as one of the four consuls of Beaumont-de-Lomagne.
Disputes and controversy Although Johann and his brother Jacob Bernoulli worked together before Johann graduated from Basel University, shortly after this, the two developed a jealous and competitive relationship.
In virtue of this transposition, the theorem of the latitudo uniformiter difformis became the law of the space traversed in case of uniformly varied motion; thus Oresme published what was taught over two centuries prior to Galileo's making it famous.
Bicylinder A bicylinder generated by two cylinders with radius r has the volume V = 16 3 r 3 , {\displaystyle V={\frac {16}{3}}r^{3},} and the surface area A = 16 r 2 .
In 1831, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, and the following year a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Newton's defence has been adopted since by many famous physicists—he pointed out that the mathematical form of the theory had to be correct since it explained the data, and he refused to speculate further on the basic nature of gravity.
On March 1, 1849, he was reinstated at the Faculté de Sciences, as a professor of mathematical astronomy.
{\displaystyle A=8B=16r^{2}.} Alternate proof of the volume formula To derive the volume of a bicylinder (white), one can enclose it within a cube (red).
That odd number at which this process ends, four times the diameter should be multiplied by the next even number, halved and [then] divided by one added to that [even] number squared.
L'Hôpital may have felt fully justified in describing these results in his book, after acknowledging his debt to Leibniz and the Bernoulli brothers, "especially the younger one" (Johann).
In number theory, Fermat studied Pell's equation, perfect numbers, amicable numbers and what would later become Fermat numbers.
Generalisation to measures Let μ {\displaystyle \mu } be a measure on Ω ⊂ R N {\displaystyle \Omega \subset \mathbb {R} ^{N}} .
Thus, the area bounded by a rectangle above a single complete arch of the cycloid has area equal to the area of the circle, and so, the area bounded by the arch is three times the area of the circle.
1636 ) to calculate maxima and minima of functions, tangents to curves, area, center of mass, least action, and other problems in calculus.
(2011), "How ordinary elimination became Gaussian elimination", Historia Mathematica, 38 (2): 163–218, arXiv:0907.2397, doi:10.1016/j.hm.2010.06.003, S2CID 14259511 Rolle, Michel (1690).
"[T]he appropriate nature of each substance brings it about that what happens to one corresponds to what happens to all the others, without, however, their acting upon one another directly" (Discourse on Metaphysics, XIV).
Two volumes treating the differential and integral calculus, respectively, had been authored by Johann Bernoulli in 1691–1692, and the latter was published in 1724 to become the first published textbook on the integral calculus.
de Sarasa associated this feature with contemporary algorithms called logarithms that economized arithmetic by rendering multiplications into additions.
Newton's tract De motu corporum in gyrum, which he sent to Halley in late 1684, derived what is now known as the three laws of Kepler, assuming an inverse square law of force, and generalised the result to conic sections.
Al-Haytham was dubbed the "Second Ptolemy" by Abu'l-Hasan Bayhaqi and "The Physicist" by John Peckham.
Thus, these laws can be called the laws of nature, because they are derived from God—the creator of nature himself.
The second edition (1713) were printed in 750 copies, and the third edition (1726) were printed in 1,250 copies.
Thus, Madhava may have invented the ideas underlying infinite series expansions of functions, power series, trigonometric series, and rational approximations of infinite series.
Gilain notes that when the portion of the curriculum devoted to Analyse Algébrique was reduced in 1825, Cauchy insisted on placing the topic of continuous functions (and therefore also infinitesimals) at the beginning of the Differential Calculus.
De Leeuw points out that even the "purely scientific" contributions of Wallis to the science of linguistics in the field of the "rationality" of Natural language as it developed over time, played a role in the development of cryptology as a science.
While Newton worked with fluxions and fluents, Leibniz based his approach on generalizations of sums and differences.
[judge] rashly and erroneously about future events." Oresme's critique of astrology in his Livre de divinacions treats it as having six parts.
According to Descartes's theory of vortices, planetary motions were produced by the whirling of fluid vortices that filled interplanetary space and carried the planets along with them.
He is also remembered for developing the Carnot wall, a system of fortification that became widely employed in continental Europe during the 19th century.
The key for the determination of volume and surface area is the observation that the tricylinder can be resampled by the cube with the vertices where 3 edges meet (s.
Jacob von Staehlin wrote a short obituary for the Russian Academy of Sciences and Russian mathematician Nicolas Fuss, one of Euler's disciples, wrote a more detailed eulogy, which he delivered at a memorial meeting.
In the theory of series he developed the notion of convergence and discovered many of the basic formulas for q-series.
Like his predecessors Albert the Great, Thomas Aquinas and Peter of Auvergne (and quite unlike Aristotle), Oresme favours monarchy as the best form of government.
They were among the first mathematicians to not only study and understand calculus but to apply it to various problems.
Proposition 11: The volume of a cone (or cylinder) of the same height is proportional to the area of the base.
Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica From the Rare Book and Special Collection Division at the Library of Congress Second edition (1713) ETH-Bibliothek Zürich.
He communicated most of his work in letters to friends, often with little or no proof of his theorems.
One of the people he influenced was Jaime Escalante, who taught math to minority students at Garfield High School in East Los Angeles.
Newton described any variable that changed its value as a fluent – for example, the velocity of a ball thrown in the air.
Analyse algébrique ("Analysis Course" in English) is a seminal textbook in infinitesimal calculus published by Augustin-Louis Cauchy in 1821.
According to Koetsier, the generality of algebra principle assumed, roughly, that the algebraic rules that hold for a certain class of expressions can be extended to hold more generally on a larger class of objects, even if the rules are no longer obviously valid.
It was his initiative to train the conscripts in the art of war and to place new recruits with experienced soldiers rather than having a massive volunteer army without any real idea of how to wage battle.
Work Early work The genius of Cauchy was illustrated in his simple solution of the problem of Apollonius—describing a circle touching three given circles—which he discovered in 1805, his generalization of Euler's formula on polyhedra in 1811, and in several other elegant problems.
These infinitesimals have different first-order properties than the reals because, for example, the basic infinitesimal x does not have a square root.
Imagine that the x {\displaystyle x} -axis is a lever, with a fulcrum at x = 0 {\displaystyle x=0} .
This leads to V = ∫ − r r ( 2 x ) 2 d z = 4 ⋅ ∫ − r r x 2 d z = 4 ⋅ ∫ − r r ( r 2 − z 2 ) d z = 16 3 r 3 .
Most ciphers were ad hoc methods relying on a secret algorithm, as opposed to systems based on a variable key.
Newton introduced the concept in 1665 and detailed them in his mathematical treatise, Method of Fluxions.
A related law of continuity concerning intersection numbers in geometry was promoted by Jean-Victor Poncelet in his "Traité des propriétés projectives des figures".
A 2012 study argues that Leibniz's TLH was a precursor of the standard part function over the hyperreals.
(1993), A History of Mathematics / An Introduction (2nd ed.), Addison Wesley Longman, ISBN 978-0-321-01618-8 Mazur, Joseph (2014), Enlightening Symbols / A Short History of Mathematical Notation and Its Hidden Powers, Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0-691-17337-5 Swokowski, Earl W.
On the other hand, this method can be used to rigorously define the derivative for a wide class of functions using neither infinitesimal nor limit techniques.
In 1739–1742, two French priests, Pères Thomas LeSeur and François Jacquier (of the Minim order, but sometimes erroneously identified as Jesuits), produced with the assistance of J.-L.
These activities did not make Cauchy popular with his colleagues, who, on the whole, supported the Enlightenment ideals of the French Revolution.
Solving these equations, we see that the intersection of these two medians is above the point x = 2 / 3 {\displaystyle x=2/3} , so that the total effect of the triangle on the lever is as if the total mass of the triangle were pushing down on (or hanging from) this point.
When Napoleon came to power in 1799, Louis-François Cauchy was further promoted, and became Secretary-General of the Senate, working directly under Laplace (who is now better known for his work on mathematical physics).
Leibniz introduced the symbol ∫ {\displaystyle \int } for the integral and wrote the derivative of a function y of the variable x as d y d x {\displaystyle {\frac {dy}{dx}}} , both of which are still in use.
In works such as Cours d'Analyse, Cauchy rejected the use of "generality of algebra" methods and sought a more rigorous foundation for mathematical analysis.
He was perhaps the greatest of the Oxford Calculators of Merton College, where he was a fellow certainly by 1344 and possibly by 1340.
The method of exhaustion (Latin: methodus exhaustionis) is a method of finding the area of a shape by inscribing inside it a sequence of polygons (one at a time) whose areas converge to the area of the containing shape.
Thus, if a {\displaystyle a} is finite and d x {\displaystyle dx} is infinitesimal, then one sets a + d x = a .
The machine was able to execute all four basic operations (adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing), and the society quickly made him an external member.
{\displaystyle \int \limits _{0}^{T}f(t)\,\mathrm {d} t,\quad \int \limits _{\!\!\!\!\!g(t)=a\!\!\!\!\!}^{\!\!\!\!\!g(t)=b\!\!\!\!\!}f(t)\,\mathrm {d} t.} See also Capital sigma notation Capital pi notation Notes References Stewart, James (2003).
Accuracy of the correction terms Let s i = 1 − 1 3 + 1 5 − 1 7 + ⋯ + ( − 1 ) n − 1 1 2 n − 1 + ( − 1 ) n F i ( n ) {\displaystyle s_{i}=1-{\frac {1}{3}}+{\frac {1}{5}}-{\frac {1}{7}}+\cdots +(-1)^{n-1}{\frac {1}{2n-1}}+(-1)^{n}F_{i}(n)} .
Wave theory, mechanics, elasticity In the theory of light he worked on Fresnel's wave theory and on the dispersion and polarization of light.
Proposition 10: The volume of a cone is a third of the volume of the corresponding cylinder which has the same base and height.
Michael (May 2011), "Where Are Limits Needed in Calculus?", American Mathematical Monthly, 118 (5): 404–417, doi:10.4169/amer.math.monthly.118.05.404
The concept was introduced by Newton in 1665 and detailed in his mathematical treatise, Method of Fluxions.
He refuted the belief, widely held by Christian scholars of the time, that Hebrew was the primeval language of the human race.
In 1812, he returned to serve under Napoleon and oversaw the defense of Antwerp against the Sixth Coalition, and during the Hundred Days he was Napoleon's Minister of the Interior.
L'Hôpital exchanged ideas with Pierre Varignon and corresponded with Gottfried Leibniz, Christiaan Huygens, and Jacob and Johann Bernoulli.
John Wallis's infinitesimals differed from indivisibles in that he would decompose geometrical figures into infinitely thin building blocks of the same dimension as the figure, preparing the ground for general methods of the integral calculus.
At the age of 13 he composed 300 hexameters of Latin verse in a single morning for a special event at school.
See also History of calculus Newton's notation Hyperreal number: A modern formalization of the reals that includes infinity and infinitesimals Nonstandard analysis References Further reading Clegg, Brian (2003).
The volume of a tricylinder is V = 8 ( 2 − 2 ) r 3 {\displaystyle V=8(2-{\sqrt {2}})r^{3}} and the surface area is A = 24 ( 2 − 2 ) r 2 .
The law of continuity is a heuristic principle introduced by Gottfried Leibniz based on earlier work by Nicholas of Cusa and Johannes Kepler.
He was, in many ways, the polar opposite of Voltaire, who enjoyed a high place of prestige at Frederick's court.
The 15th century saw the work of Nicholas of Cusa, further developed in the 17th century by Johannes Kepler, in particular, the calculation of the area of a circle by representing the latter as an infinite-sided polygon.
She included an analytical section where she applied the new mathematics of calculus to Newton's most controversial theories.
He next declined the offer of an academic appointment at Altdorf, saying that "my thoughts were turned in an entirely different direction".
The group is known for series expansion of three trigonometric functions of sine, cosine and arctan and proofs of their results where later given in the Yuktibhasa.
I have enjoyed little leisure, being so weighted down of late with occupations of a totally different nature.
Berkeley gives the following analogy regarding indirect distance perception: one perceives distance indirectly just as one perceives a person's embarrassment indirectly.
1693) on 1 February 1682, with issue: one son and two daughters Elizabeth Wallis (1658–1703), married William Benson (1649–1691) of Towcester, died with no issue Life John Wallis was born in Ashford, Kent.
Bruce Brackenridge, although much has been made of the change in language and difference of point of view, as between centrifugal or centripetal forces, the actual computations and proofs remained the same either way.
In any event, he inherited his father's staunch royalism and hence refused to take oaths to any government after the overthrow of Charles X.
{\displaystyle (2r)^{3}-{\frac {8}{3}}r^{3}={\frac {16}{3}}r^{3}.} Tricylinder The intersection of three cylinders with perpendicularly intersecting axes generates a surface of a solid with vertices where 3 edges meet and vertices where 4 edges meet.
Some examples of the method had previously appeared in algebra books, and Isaac Newton had previously described the method in his lecture notes, but Newton's lesson was not published until 1707.
Bos describes it as the principle to the effect that in a sum involving infinitesimals of different orders, only the lowest-order term must be retained, and the remainder discarded.
It also extended the methodology by adding the solution of a problem on the motion of a body through a resisting medium.
In China, the bicylinder is known as móu hé fāng gài (牟合方蓋), literally "two square umbrella"; it was described by the third-century mathematician Liu Hui.
It is not to be confused with the General Scholium at the end of Book 2, Section 6, which discusses his pendulum experiments and resistance due to air, water, and other fluids.
He also contributed research in mechanics, substituting the notion of the continuity of geometrical displacements for the principle of the continuity of matter.
However, the same problem had been solved earlier, by Archimedes in the ancient Greek world, Zu Chongzhi in ancient China, and Piero della Francesca in the early Italian Renaissance.
A fluxion is the instantaneous rate of change, or gradient, of a fluent (a time-varying quantity, or function) at a given point.
His solution was extremely long and complicated and may not have been understood by mathematicians reading him in Latin translation.
An important general work is that of Sarrus (1842) which was condensed and improved by Augustin Louis Cauchy (1844).
Shortly before the development of modern calculus, Christopher Wren employed the method of exhaustion to discover the exact arc length of the cycloid.
In 1741, he requested permission to leave for Berlin, arguing he was in need of a milder climate for his eyesight.
Here the series (1) appears on page 86: (1) u 0 , u 1 , u 2 , … , u n , u n + 1 , … {\displaystyle u_{0},u_{1},u_{2},\ldots ,u_{n},u_{n+1},\ldots } Bibliography Cauchy, Augustin-Louis (1821).
As the plane traverses through the solids, these blue squares form square pyramids with isosceles faces at the cube's corners.
While Fermat's method had more in common with the infinitesimal techniques that were to be used later, Descartes' method was more influential in the early history of calculus.
Rules of Reason Perhaps to reduce the risk of public misunderstanding, Newton included at the beginning of Book 3 (in the second (1713) and third (1726) editions) a section titled "Rules of Reasoning in Philosophy".
In the history of mathematics, it is remembered as one of the first examples of Isaac Barrow's application of rudimentary calculus methods to determine the tangent of a curve.
The book contains a direct attack on the foundations of calculus, specifically on Isaac Newton's notion of fluxions and on Leibniz's notion of infinitesimal change.
One red biangle is cut into halves by the yz-plane and developed into the plane such that half circle (intersection with the yz-plane) is developed onto the positive ξ-axis and the development of the biangle is bounded upwards by the sine arc η = r sin ⁡ ξ r , 0 ≤ ξ ≤ π r .
A circle of radius r can roll in a clockwise direction upon a line below it, or in a counterclockwise direction upon a line above it.
In the history of mathematics, the generality of algebra was a phrase used by Augustin-Louis Cauchy to describe a method of argument that was used in the 18th century by mathematicians such as Leonhard Euler and Joseph-Louis Lagrange, particularly in manipulating infinite series.
The fourth complete English translation is due to Charles Leedham-Green, professor emeritus of mathematics at Queen Mary University of London, and was published in 2021 by Cambridge University Press.
3rd century BC - Archimedes develops a concept of the indivisibles—a precursor to infinitesimals—allowing him to solve several problems using methods now termed as integral calculus.
It is also related to a completely general definition of differentiability given by Carathéodory (Range 2011).
During his civil engineering days, Cauchy once had been briefly in charge of repairing a few of the Parisian sewers, and he made the mistake of mentioning this to his pupil; with great malice, Henri d'Artois went about saying Cauchy started his career in the sewers of Paris.
Gottfried Leibniz began working on his variant of calculus in 1674, and in 1684 published his first paper employing it, "Nova Methodus pro Maximis et Minimis".
"Power Series in Fifteenth-Century Kerala", except from Sources in the Development of Mathematics: Infinite Series and Products from the Fifteenth to the Twenty-first Century.
House of Hanover, 1676–1716 Leibniz managed to delay his arrival in Hanover until the end of 1676 after making one more short journey to London, where Newton accused him of having seen his unpublished work on calculus in advance.
In 1695, Leibniz made his public entrée into European philosophy with a journal article titled "New System of the Nature and Communication of Substances".
{\displaystyle {\frac {dx}{dt}}={\dot {x}}.} Lagrange's "prime" notation is especially useful in discussions of derived functions and has the advantage of having a natural way of denoting the value of the derived function at a specific value.
The volume of the 8 pyramids is: 8 × 1 3 r 2 × r = 8 3 r 3 , {\displaystyle 8\times {\frac {1}{3}}r^{2}\times r={\frac {8}{3}}r^{3},} and then we can calculate that the bicylinder volume is ( 2 r ) 3 − 8 3 r 3 = 16 3 r 3 .
Physics, astronomy, and engineering Some of Euler's greatest successes were in solving real-world problems analytically, and in describing numerous applications of the Bernoulli numbers, Fourier series, Euler numbers, the constants e and π, continued fractions, and integrals.
Newton also clearly expressed the concept of linear inertia in the 1660s: for this Newton was indebted to Descartes' work published 1644.
Nevertheless, the rule was named for l'Hôpital, who never claimed to have invented it in the first place.
Laugwitz (1989) and Benis-Sinaceur (1973) point out that Cauchy continued to use infinitesimals in his own research as late as 1853.
288–295 Archived 9 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine ("Analyseos tetragonisticae pars secunda", 29 October 1675) and 321–331 Archived 3 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine ("Methodi tangentium inversae exempla", 11 November 1675).
See also l'Hôpital controversy References External links Analyse des Infiniment Petits pour l'Intelligence des Lignes Courbes in various formats (djvu, pdf, etc.) at the Internet Archive.
Since Berkeley is here explicitly calling attention to Newton's religious faith, that seems to indicate he did not mean his readers to identify the "infidel (i.e., lacking faith) mathematician" with Newton.
Entering the challenge, Johann proposed the cycloid, the path of a point on a moving wheel, also pointing out the relation this curve bears to the path taken by a ray of light passing through layers of varied density.
He had published a calculation of a tangent with the note: "This is only a special case of a general method whereby I can calculate curves and determine maxima, minima, and centers of gravity." How this was done he explained to a pupil 20 years later, when Leibniz's articles were already well-read.
The couple eventually divorced in 1962, with an Arizona court granting Thyra custody of the child and Louis receiving certain visitation rights.
In order to raise more troops for the war, Carnot introduced conscription: the levée en masse approved by the National Convention was able to raise France's army from 645,000 troops in mid-1793 to 1.5 million in September 1794.
Biography Leithold attended the University of California, Berkeley, where is attained his B.A., M.A.
He showed a willingness to view infinite series not only as approximate devices, but also as alternative forms of expressing a term.
In 1985 it was reorganized and included in a joint program of German federal and state (Länder) academies.
to compute lengths, areas and volumes as sums of tiny pieces), for which Leibniz also supplied a closely related notation involving the same differentials, a notation whose efficiency proved decisive in the development of continental European mathematics.
The symbol was based on the ſ (long s) character and was chosen because Leibniz thought of the integral as an infinite sum of infinitesimal summands.
They also involved the combination of tangential and radial displacements, which Newton was making in the 1660s.
Leibniz adapted the integral symbol ∫ {\displaystyle \textstyle \int } from the initial elongated s of the Latin word ſumma ("sum") as written at the time.
Wallis as a cryptographer While employed as Lady Vere's chaplain in 1642, Wallis was given an enciphered letter about the fall of Chichester which he managed to decipher within two hours.
Personal life L'Hôpital married Marie-Charlotte de Romilley de La Chesnelaye, also a mathematician and a member of the nobility, and inheritor of large estates in Brittany.
Similar considerations can determine the volume and the surface area of the curved triangles as it is done for the bicylinder above.
Sur la mecanique celeste et sur un nouveau calcul qui s'applique a un grand nombre de questions diverses etc [On Celestial Mechanics and on a new calculation which is applicable to a large number of diverse questions] (in French).
{\displaystyle r=a\tan \theta .} It has two vertical asymptotes at x = ±a, shown as dashed blue lines in the figure at right.
Steinmetz solids are named after mathematician Charles Proteus Steinmetz, who solved the problem of determining the volume of the intersection.
Moreover, the existence of these "superstitions" was not fatal to mathematical reasoning; indeed, it was an aid.
Cauchy's views were widely unpopular among mathematicians and when Guglielmo Libri Carucci dalla Sommaja was made chair in mathematics before him he, and many others, felt his views were the cause.
John Maynard Keynes was one of about three dozen bidders who obtained part of the collection at auction.
Newton, faced in May 1686 with Hooke's claim on the inverse square law, denied that Hooke was to be credited as author of the idea, giving reasons including the citation of prior work by others before Hooke.
Proof of the volume formula For deriving the volume formula it is convenient to use the common idea for calculating the volume of a sphere: collecting thin cylindric slices.
Among his several achievements, Rolle helped advance the currently accepted size order for negative numbers.
Palimpsests were created by scraping the ink from existing works and reusing them, a common practice in the Middle Ages, as vellum was expensive.
The ancient Greeks used various precursor techniques such as Archimedes's mechanical arguments or method of exhaustion to compute these volumes.
Calculi infinitesimalis Pars I, seu calculus differentialis, expositus analysi infinite parvorum : a 1764 edition (Trattner) of 'Analyse des infiniment petits, at the université de Strasbourg.
The translators observe in a footnote: "The notation “Lim.” for limit was first used by Simon Antoine Jean L'Huilier (1750–1840) in [L’Huilier 1787, p.
When the various terms of series (1) are functions of the same variable x, continuous with respect to this variable in the neighborhood of a particular value for which the series converges, the sum s of the series is also a continuous function of x in the neighborhood of this particular value.
A Java applet for playing with the curve O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Kappa Curve", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews
Book 2 discusses (in Section 5) hydrostatics and the properties of compressible fluids; he also derives Boyle's law (incorrectly; for an ideal gas is not like an elastic fluid).
In Proposition II, Archimedes gives an approximation of the value of pi (π), showing that it is greater than ⁠223/71⁠ (3.1408...) and less than ⁠22/7⁠ (3.1428...).
Leibniz's ideas regarding music and tonal perception went on to influence the laboratory studies of Wilhelm Wundt.
His greatest contributions to mathematical science are enveloped in the rigorous methods which he introduced; these are mainly embodied in his three great treatises: "Analyse Algébrique".
Typography in Unicode and LaTeX Fundamental symbol The integral symbol is U+222B ∫ INTEGRAL in Unicode and \int in LaTeX.
Leedham-Green was motivated to produce that translation, on which he worked for twenty years, in part because of his dissatisfaction with the work of Cohen, Whitman, and Budenz, whose translation of the Principia he found unnecessarily obscure.
1300, a set of fragmentary results), it is clear from citations that Madhava provided the creative impulse for the development of a rich mathematical tradition in medieval Kerala.
Red jersey as points classification leader In 1968, the leader of the points classification in the Tour de France wore a red jersey.
It has a close cousin, haunches-out, renvers, or croupe au mur ("rump to the wall"), that is slightly more difficult.
Aaron Huglen scored a Michigan goal for the United States against Canada in the semifinals of the 2018 Hlinka Gretzky Cup, an under-18 tournament.
A batsman who is dismissed by the first ball they face is said to have been dismissed for a golden duck.
Maiden horse races are held over a variety of distances and under conditions with eligibility based on the sex or age of the horse.
Radio broadcasting requires the commentator to describe the action in detail because the listeners could not see it for themselves.
Then, on August 17, outfielder Randy Arozarena recorded a platinum sombrero in a 7–2 loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates.
Due to the chock being related to the rear of the car at the start, and readings being taken from the front of the car at the finish, the degree of precision within which cars could be timed was limited.
Mike Redmond's streak of 253 games without an error between 2004 and 2010 set a new MLB record for catchers.
A save is a statistic credited to a relief pitcher, as set forth in Rule 9.19 of the Official Rules of Major League Baseball.
These names are relative to the batsman, so a right-handed batsman's leg stump becomes the off stump when a left-handed player is batting.
In 2004, the ACB League changed the criteria by which it chooses the regular season MVP award, but it continues to use PIR to determine the MVP of each week of the season.
In many countries, maiden races are the lowest level of class and represent an entry point into a racing career.
At low Elo, a skilled player will likely find it easy to rise in rank, while at high Elo, the quality of players improves.
It is generally helpful to have begun other simple lateral movements, such as the leg-yield to teach the horse the concept of moving away from the leg, advancing to the shoulder-in to introduce the three-track movement.
This is also the desirable range for wicket-keepers, though some fall short and make up for it with keeping skill.
The best strategy is to reach over the net in a “claw” like manner and hit the ball INTO the net causing the ball to drop on the opponent’s side making it impossible for the opponents to play the point.
The intent is to confuse the receiving team while allowing the serving side to preposition one player at the net, putting pressure on the receiving side to make a quality fourth shot.
Limited overs formats of cricket take place in one day, with List A matches lasting for six hours or more, and T20, 100-ball and T10 matches lasting from 90 minutes to three hours.
At the 2023 IIHF World Women's U18 Championship, Slovakia's Nela Lopušanová, aged 14 at the time, scored a high wrap goal in a quarterfinal game against Sweden.
Flare screen: Player without the ball on the perimeter seeks to set a screen (usually near the elbow area of the lane) for another player without the ball at the top of the key area.
Noting that Cassioli's design showed a Roman amphitheatre for what was originally a Greek games, a new obverse design was commissioned for the Athens Games.
If their scores have a geometric distribution, then this statistic is the maximum likelihood estimate of their true unknown average.
The blown save was adopted as part of the points system used by the Rolaids Relief Man Award starting in 1988.
killing an enemy with low player HP, and then killing another enemy - in a panic - which is being dealt by someone else.
Although the term "personal best" is increasingly used in official sports statistics, it can also refer to an unofficial best individual performance.
Facial robusticity, which includes traits such as jaw adductor muscle strength and brow ridge size, may offer a protective effect against combat.
See also Association football positions Rugby league positions Rugby union positions == References ==
E E-grade Part of the British adjectival grading system that is used to rank the level of risk (a separate grade is given for technical difficulty) of traditional climbing routes, and which goes E1, E2, E3, ...
Spanish La Liga has the strongest home team advantage, and English football league two has the lowest home team advantage, among analysed leagues.
Australian rules football In Australian rules football, the wingers require considerable pace and stamina, as they run up and down the ground linking play between defence and attack and are normally highly skilled in kicking.
Later it happened twice in France in the qualifiers of lowest-level professional events, two of them in the span of two months, both against the same 55-year-old man, Tomas Fabian.
From Year 7 Season 4 (Operation Solar Raid) onwards, Ubisoft implemented a new Ranked/Competitive play system into their game Rainbow Six Siege, named Ranked 2.0.
F Foul A foul occurs when the attacking team commits a violation of the rules; until the foul has been cleared, the attacking team is not allowed to tag any defenders.
This leads to an increase in revenue for both the team which the superstar plays for, and the opposing team, as well as the league as a whole.
The instant the bails are dislodged from the top of the stumps, the wicket is put down (there are other ways in which a wicket can be put down if the bails have already been removed).
In multiplayer video games, particularly in MOBAs, first-person shooters, MMORPGs and MUDs, kill stealing is the practice of obtaining credit for killing an enemy when another player has put more effort into the kill.
In basketball the captain can be substituted out of the game and there does not need to be an active captain on the court at all times, but in association football a captain must be on the field at all times.
It also can refer to the shoulder and armpit area, on the paddle side of a player's body, that when targeted can force the player to make a chicken wing defensive shot.
A good faith attempt to secure a kill on an enemy that might otherwise have gotten away can sometimes be perceived as a kill steal if the other player believes the kill was already certain.
Manner of dismissing a batsman Stumps are very important in the game of cricket as they determine when the wicket is "put down".
Background The strategy is an adaptation from early research theories proposed by mechanical engineering professor at Princeton University and baseball statistician Earnshaw Cook.
There are no restrictions on the material used to make the strut, so long as the strut itself conforms to the regulations, and some designs can be very simple to construct.
In countries such as the United States, maiden special weight races rank above claiming races, while maiden claiming races allow the horse to be claimed (bought) by another owner.
They are ordinarily unstable and tend to transpose into a stable formation with a pawn push or exchange.
If an attacker has chosen a direction, it is considered a foul for their shoulder line to face more than 90 degrees away from that direction.
NTRP rating: National Tennis Rating Program rating; system used in the United States to rank players on a scale from 1 to 7, with 1 being an absolute beginner and 7 a touring pro.
Spot serving/spot server: Serving with precision, resulting in the ball landing either on or near the intersection of the center service line and service line or singles tramline and service line.
Because an arena worker had failed to place a protective piece between the rim and the backboard, the backboard shattered.
Factors related to the game rules In a number of sports, the hosting team has the advantage of playing with their first choice uniforms, while the visiting team wears their alternative away/road colors.
Volleyball player specialization is highly refined and strategy focuses on how to use specialized players in unequal ways.
NBA The rules of the National Basketball Association do not mention how forfeitures are dealt with, but mention it is a possible sanction on a player or coach who violates the rules on ejections.
Intervals Because of the length of the game, there are a number of intervals that occur in a game of cricket.
The combine the use of slow motion, instant replay, and other technologies to deliver an analysis that will engage the audience.
Outpoint is a term frequently used in boxing to describe a situation in which one boxer is awarded more points than their opponent by the judges, but does not knock out that opponent.
alpine knee An awkward climbing technique where the knee is placed on the hold rather than the foot.
Wingers often try to use pace to exploit extra space available on the flanks that can be made available by their teammates dominating the centre ground.
This is important because the reaction of the captain may or may not determine how the referee will proceed.
The president of an academic association may title his farewell column to the members "A Ninth-Inning Farewell".
The team that released him is responsible for the salary the player is owed, less what he is paid by the team that signs him.
Also called the "odd service court", since a side's score will be odd whenever that side's starting server is serving from the left side of the court.
During the play, when the wheel offense is in the 1-3-1 formation, it can also switch to other plays based on the same formation.
The inside hind leg remains engaged throughout the half-pass, and the horse should not lose its rhythm.
(This is in contrast to American football, where if the ball is dead and time expires, the quarter immediately ends.) In leagues that use the Kansas playoff for overtime (including Canadian, college and most high school football), all overtime play is untimed.
In One Day International (50 over) cricket, the average run rate has been increasing from around 4 when the format was first played in the 1970s to over 5 in recent years.
When moving along the wall of the arena, the horse's shoulders move toward the inside and the horse remains bent in the direction of movement.
By using sets of screens and cuts, this 2-1-2 formation can be maneuvered into a 1-3-1 formation, with the ball-handler on the wing.
This results in players receiving unfair penalties and the so-called 'victims' receiving free-kicks and other rewards unjustly.
Players' suitability for certain positions is often linked to specific attributes and skill requirements.
Amateur Era singles records Gerald Patterson allegedly holds the record for the most double faults committed in a Grand Slam final: he committed 27 double faults in a 71-game match against John Hawkes in the 1927 Australian Championships, but still managed to clinch the victory.
Days are scheduled as six hours of playing time, but there is a requirement that a minimum of 90 six-ball overs are bowled, and the third session may run overtime if the over rate has been slower than this.
A player can only be outrighted without his consent once during his career, and a player with more than five years of major league service time can reject an outright.
ATP Tour Among all players, active or retired, the worst average of double faults per match, shared between Henrik Holm and Radomír Vašek, is 7.2, while Gilbert Schaller has the best average, at 1.0.
First serve: The first of the two attempts to serve that a player is allowed at the beginning of a point.
Modern FIBA Level 1 competition units (as used in NCAA, NBA, Euroleague and FIBA competitions) use a direct-mount system, where the basket ring is attached to a metal beam, with a hole in the backboard where the beam is connected to the unit.
Open Era singles records Double faults have been officially recorded by the top-level professional tennis circuits since 1991.
After doing so, in the following half inning where his team had to pitch, he would place the next reliever.
Interpretation If a batter has been dismissed in every single innings, then this statistic gives exactly the average number of runs they score per innings.
Red jersey as general classification leader Since 2010, the leader of the general classification in the Vuelta a España and La Vuelta Femenina wears a red jersey.
In modern usage, a "golden sombrero" is four strikeouts, and a "platinum sombrero" (also known as the "Olympic rings," a term coined by Baltimore Orioles pitcher Bill Scherrer) is five strikeouts.
This might be due to the other side accidentally hitting an attackable ball or to catch the other team off guard.
The introduction of more accurate light beam timing required that all cars provide a consistent surface with which to break the beam at both start and finish of the timed section.
Calculation The stat's formula is: (points + rebounds + assists + steals + blocks + fouls drawn) − (missed field goals + missed free throws + turnovers + shots rejected + fouls committed).
Another way players have attempted to bypass Elo hell is by smurfing, or creating new accounts without a skill rating, which allows them to ascend in rank faster than they would with their original account.
A silver medal, in sports and other similar areas involving competition, is a medal made of, or plated with, silver awarded to the second-place finisher, or runner-up, of contests or competitions such as the Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games, etc.
The fight is either between two randomly matched applicants whose identity will be kept until the matching day or between two attendees with unresolved conflicts.
The tennis term was coined by players Harold Solomon and Eddie Dibbs, and popularized by commentator Bud Collins.
However, they can not use oil in puppet headgear, as the puppet heads, made of cypress, would lose adhesion when color pigments are applied during restoration.
In 1948 Don Budge won the first round match against George Hudson 6–0, 6–0, 6–0 at the US Professional Championship, and then against Jerome Adler 6–0, 6–0, 6–1 in the second round.
In certain sports, such as football, field hockey, ice hockey, handball, rugby union, lacrosse and rugby league, winger is a position.
Once the play is set up, the wheel offense can work effectively against both man-to-man defense and zone defense.
Outright from the 40-man roster After clearing waivers when being designated for assignment, a player is often removed outright from the 40-man roster and transferred to the roster of a minor-league affiliate of the organization.
This, combined with the color of the roof, caused opposing baseball players to commit more errors in the Dome than in other ballparks.
ERA does not account for inherited runners a reliever allows to score, and W-L record does not account for relievers protecting leads.
It bears the name of entrepreneur and Tigres del Mexico founder Alejo Peralta who established and implemented its use with Tigres starting in the 1970s.
In that case, the IIHF judged both teams equally at fault, and declared the game null and void (as opposed to either or both teams forfeiting the game).
It is employed by the Spanish Riding School, due to their belief that travers encourages the horse to travel crookedly with their haunches leaning toward the center of the arena.
In the TBT implementation, the game clock proceeds normally until the first dead ball with 4:00 or less remaining in the fourth quarter.
Throughout the history of basketball, there have always been athletes with the size and strength to dunk through rims.
In professional sumo, tokoyama work under a pseudonym that always starts with the kanji for 'floor' or 'bed' (床, pronounced toko) in their names.
Some of the greatest captains in history are the ones with the most subtle of traits that are required for success.
Back screen: Players in the key seek to screen players on the wing and open them up for basket cuts.
(However, having home court did not help Canada at the 1976 Montreal Olympics, the only Summer Games at which the hosting country failed to win a single gold medal.) The strength of the home advantage varies for different sports, regions, seasons, and divisions.
If a relief pitcher satisfies all of the criteria for a save except he does not finish the game, he will often be credited with a hold (abbr.
Someone seeking a job, or romance with another person, may "strike out" and fail to impress on a first meeting.
In business, the heavy hitters may be those who draw the most clients or make the most sales, or who lead the organization.
If a batted ball were hit on the fly into foul territory, with the batting team having no runners on base, and a fielder misplayed such ball for an error, it is possible for a team on the winning side of a perfect game to commit at least one error, yet still qualify as a perfect game.
This was the beginning of a new era for sports broadcasting and the way it was displayed to the public.
It includes all runs made by the batting side in the innings to that point of the game, both the runs scored by the batsmen and extras conceded by the bowling team.
In a 1913 match against Glastonbury Cricket Club in Somerset, all the batsmen for Huish and Langport CC scored ducks for a total of zero runs.
Women's singles In the women's singles, the largest number of 6–0 sets won: In terms of percentage bagels vs games played.
It is a kind of continuity offense in which players move around in a circular pattern to create good scoring opportunities.
See also Infield Fielding (cricket) Baseball field Total Football Outfielder, for more information about the baseball fielding positions in the outfield.
Into-the-post or ITP A shot that results in the ball hitting the post, usually occurring when attempting an Around-the-post shot.
However, owing to the variable shape of vehicles and inconsistencies in the placing of the beam sensors, this was not a simple condition to meet before the introduction of the Burt strut.
Prominent uses 2010 National League Championship Series (Game 6) Mexican baseball analyst Tomas Morales pointed out that San Francisco Giants manager Bruce Bochy had used, albeit unaware, a similar version of the system in game 6 of the 2010 National League Championship Series.
There is a rule that if one rider finishes less than three seconds behind another then he is credited with the same finishing time as the first.
Humphrey Metrodome trapped and reflected noise to such an extent that it was distracting or even harmful.
Contractual moves Place the player on waivers Typically, a player is placed on waivers after being designated for assignment for the purpose of outrighting him to one of the club's minor league teams.
The signed jersey and shoes (including one of the tiny shards of glass in the sole of the left shoe) that Jordan wore during this famous game were later auctioned.
It is most commonly found in athletic sports, such as track and field, other forms of running, swimming and weightlifting.
References External links Rocky Mountain News August 17, 2006 quoting Don Baylor Athlon Sports May 8, 2007: 4 leadoff hitters with golden sombrero.
Bahmet was a professional sports bettor who had entered the tournament without having played tennis before; his associate bet against him and won roughly €3,000.
A golden match occurred in the qualifiers of an ITF Men's World Tennis Tour event in Doha in 2019, where Krittin Koaykul beat Artem Bahmet.
See also Gouging (fighting style) Jailhouse rock (fighting style) Mixed martial arts Vale Tudo Mutual combat Slapboxing Streetbeefs Tawuran, mass street fighting between gangs of students in Indonesia Trial by combat == References ==
In cricket, where the ball is far more likely to stay low against the ground than in baseball or softball, the condition of the turf has a major effect on the speed at which the ball travels through the outfield.
Association football In football, the game clock is not stopped when the play is interrupted and a game does not automatically end when the allocated time has expired.
In his first taped fight against a man named Big D, Ferguson left a large cut on his opponent's right eye which led internet fans to call him "Slice", becoming the last name to his already popular childhood nickname, Kimbo.
Just before the line—200 metres away is about the maximum—the sprinter launches himself around his final lead-out man in an all-out effort for the line.
Themes for White: exploitation of d6 weakness, e4–e5 and c4–c5 breaks, minority attack with b2–b4–b5.
Stump cam For professional matches, often one or more of the stumps is hollow and contains a small television camera.
(See also Lob (tennis)) M Major League Pickleball or MLP An American professional pickleball sports league and pro pickleball tour that uses the MLP team format for each tournament.
The half-pass is a variation of haunches-in (travers), executed on a diagonal line instead of along the wall.
The fact that Bradman's average is so far above that of any other cricketer has led several statisticians to argue that, statistically at least, he was the greatest athlete in any sport.
He enjoyed success for over 40 years as the head coach of the United States Military Academy, Indiana University, and Texas Tech University, recording 902 total victories.
The fight lasts for three rounds, sometimes an additional round is conducted because the crowd's provocation fuels the combativeness of the attendees.
This position is typically just called "wing", often preceded by the side on which the player normally skates (left wing or right wing).
In individual tournaments of the Grand Slam, the largest number of 6–0 sets won is: Australian Championship: 1.
Strategical fouls violate the traditional norms of cooperation and agreement to the essential rules and regulations of the game, or are perhaps not part of the games at all.
drive-by A deadpoint where one arm crosses over the other to reach a hold that is above and to the side.
A forfeit results in loss for the offending team by a score of 20−0, and in tournaments that use the FIBA points system for standings, zero points for the match.
The rider's outside rein maintains the connection, preventing the horse from swinging the shoulders to the outside and straightening its spine, maintaining the energy produced by the horse's outside hind leg.
Haunches-in, also called travers or tête au mur ("head to the wall" in French), is a lateral movement used in the dressage discipline of horse training.
As of 2017, the record for the most ducks in Test cricket is held by West Indies player Courtney Walsh, who was out for nought on 43 occasions, while the overall first-class record is 156, set by Worcestershire and England player Reg Perks.
In recent times, official scorers have made some attempt to take a fielder's supposed "extraordinary" effort or positioning into account when judging whether the play should have been successful given ordinary effort.
Demonstrated by a World Medallist, Quarto Publishing plc, London 1989, Reprinted 1993, ISBN 0-09-174430-X Richtlinien für Reiten und Fahren, vol.
These rules are outlined in Laws 11 (Intervals) and 12 (Start of play; cessation of play) in the Laws of Cricket.
Criticism Some commentators have criticized the Michigan goal as showboating, a form of unsportsmanlike conduct.
To be able to bob and weave, the boxer would need good reflexes to accurately see the punches coming.
Their results suggest that when having to compete against Ozaki, players performed worse by about 0.3 strokes on average.
The game ends by rule once either team scores 2 points in overtime, with shots from behind the "three-point" arc worth 2 points and all other shots (whether field goals or free throws) worth 1 point.
NCAA basketball, a referee decides a game is to be forfeited when any of these criteria are satisfied: Any player, squad member or bench personnel fails to comply with any technical foul penalty and/or makes a travesty of the game.
In 1990, the issue made its way back into the headlines when Lisa Olson made a public statement revealing that players from the New England Patriots had exposed themselves while interviews were being conducted.
A study by the Baseball Hall of Fame found modern closers were put into fewer tough save situations compared to past relievers.
In boxing, bobbing and weaving is a defensive technique that moves the head both beneath and laterally of an incoming punch.
Today, Test matches are played under a set of conditions agreed by the boards of the competing countries.
In baseball, hitting singles or playing small ball instead of seeking to hit home runs is sometimes a good strategy for teams that do not have many power hitters.
The tokoyama trade is the result of a slow evolution from the traditional Japanese barbers of the Edo period, some of whom gradually started to specialize in hairstyles of actors, puppets, and rikishi.
National Pickleball League or NPL May refer to one of the following: National Pickleball League Australia, a professional pickleball league in Australia.
Other: French, Sicilian Alapin, Symmetrical English, Caro–Kann, Queen's Gambit (colors reversed), Nimzo-Indian (colors reversed).
In the NBA a captain will be the one to talk during interviews and also be the first one to be looked at after a poor performance.
Famous maiden horses Numerous famous horses have commenced racing in maiden events before graduation through the classes of racing.
In 1967, 1968 and from 2010 to 2016, the leader of the points classification in the Giro d'Italia wore a red jersey.
The most errors committed by a pitcher in a season is 28 by Jim Whitney, which also is the National League record.
That is, the service side alternates as server and partner while the receiving side alternates as receiver and partner.
See also Continuity offense References External links The Many 'Motions' of Offense Half Court Sets with Motion Offense Continuity Offense Motion Offense
A no-contest was declared in a game during the Round of 64 of the 2021 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament after the Virginia Commonwealth University Rams had several players placed in COVID-19 quarantine, allowing their opponents, the Oregon Ducks, to advance via walkover.
Significant ducks The first duck in a Test match was made in the first Test, between Australia and England at Melbourne in March 1877, when Ned Gregory was caught by Andrew Greenwood off the bowling of James Lillywhite.
Moreover, a wet field generally slows the footspeed of the defense, so fielders will be able to reach fewer flies and line drives in the air before they go through to the fences.
M Minimum chase A minimum chase is a type of tiebreaker in which each team gets one additional turn to score.
Themes for Black: Pressure on the c-file, minority attack (and counterplay in general) on the queenside, pressure on White's pawn on e4 or e5, d6–d5 break, e6–e5 transposing into the Boleslavsky hole (see below).
As the strut made its first appearance on the front of Burt's McLaren-Oldsmobile her name was used as its official title.
Two ball pass: Passing an opponent that has come to the net with a first shot that causes them trouble on the volley followed up by hitting the second ball by them.
A personal record, or a personal best (abbreviated to PB), is an individual's best performance in a given sporting discipline.
Basketball Cricket Certain dangerous acts are considered unfair play in cricket, such as an intentionally bowled beamer (a ball thrown at a batter above the waist, potentially at the head).
Before the advent of the Duckworth-Lewis method, run rate was one of a number of methods used to determine the winner of a game which had been curtailed due to rain or bad light (in the Average Run Rate method).
Sprint stages rarely result in big time differences between riders (see above), but contenders for the General Classification tend to stay near the front of the peloton to avoid crashes.
Unlike the easier leg-yield, the horse is bent in the direction of travel, slightly around the rider's inside leg.
Kill stealing is common when the rewards for finishing enemies off are highly desired within the game.
In some cases, untimed play can occur at the end of a game following the expiration of the clock, and may even be when a score occurs that decides the outcome of the game.
The rider should perform slightly less than one full circle, so that the forehand returns to the track while the hindquarters are still slightly to the inside, before asking the horse to move down the long side of the arena.
On March 27, 2025, Jackson Chourio of the Milwaukee Brewers struck out five times against the Yankees on opening day.
Numerous management strategies use competition as an incentive for better productivity, however, according to the superstar effect, if agents have to compete against a superstar, they may in fact reduce their efforts.
Armstrong asked his head coach, Robbie Ftorek, whether he could try such a shot in a game; Ftorek replied, "You do it so easily, why don't you try it?" Armstrong scored four goals with the move, which he called a "high wrap," leading to appreciation from fans and local media.
In comparison, fans and novice participants that had little experience to recognise the difference between a dive and foul showed a lower result.
The term came from the world of running, referring to a person's best time in a race of a specific distance.
Broadcasters in this role are adept at being articulate and carry an ability to describe each play or event of an often-fast-moving sporting event.
Notable athletes such as Jocelyne Larocque (2018 Olympics) removed their runners-up/silver medals right after receiving them; Larocque was later ordered by the International Ice Hockey Federation official to put her silver medal back on.
In cycling, long races such as the Tour de France, Absa Cape Epic or the Giro d'Italia are known for their stages of one day each.
If a run scores by the end of the inning that would not have scored in the absence of the error, the run is categorized as unearned, meaning that it is not treated in the statistics as having been the responsibility of the pitcher.
In the Open Era, there has been a women's singles Grand Slam tournament match with a double bagel every year except for in 1968 and 2005.
It permits the player to drive the ball in a sharp downward direction making it difficult to return.
Powerplay (UKK) The powerplay is a period of time during which the attacking team is allowed to have two wazirs.
As of 17 May 2012, Vote For Lust had raced 86 times without winning (placing 10 times and earning over $20,000 in prize money), but, as a result of the publicity generated from his accolade, Melbourne Cup winning jockey Glen Boss agreed to ride the horse in its 87th start.
Promotion to this rank has very strict prerequisites and the tokoyama must have served for around 45 years and have demonstrated "excellent talents".
Each stump is 28 inches (71.1 cm) tall with maximum and minimum diameters of 11⁄2 inches (3.81 cm) and 13⁄8 inches (3.49 cm).
Career records for batting average are usually subject to a minimum qualification of 20 innings played or completed, in order to exclude batsmen who have not played enough games for their skill to be reliably assessed.
In cricket, the run rate (RR), or runs per over (RPO), is the average number of runs a batting side scores per over.
adze A thin blade mounted perpendicular to the handle on an ice axe; is used for chopping footholds.
A relief pitcher in other realms of activity also comes in as a substitute or replacement for the initial or regular occupant of a role.
In the east, Landau and Tumarkin's Bessarabian constituency, comprising some of the poorest and least integrated sections of Romanian Jews, provided the PER with its other main electoral resource.
Footnotes External links Records of the Bay Area Council for Soviet Jews at the American Jewish Historical Society.
The head of a Berber village describes how the Jewish community was established in the village, and the narrative goes on to recount the details of the second wave of Jewish immigration from the Iberian Peninsula following the Spanish Inquisition.
See also Jewish-American working class Jewish left References External links Encountering Chutzpah, Graylit Myron Perlman, Z”L, a Founder of the Chutzpah Collective, Jewish Currents
References External links Raul Geller at National-Football-Teams.com Profile of Raul Geller on JewsInSports.org
Its production was funded by thee Ha-Mizrakh Society of Odessa in the Russian Empire and occurred during a two-month visit of the Russian and Ukrainian filmmakers to Palestine.
Forced hiatus 1938 outlawing The PER was again drawn into cooperation with the UER, issuing common protests against the antisemitic encroachment, and reestablishing the CCER.
Psychological well-being of Naale students The Naale students, while enrolled in the program, seem to have a lower level of psychological distress comparing to their peers who immigrated with their parents and are living in the community.
These congregations were most active in resisting anti-Zionist propaganda as pressed through the synagogues.
Routes of Exile: A Moroccan Jewish Odyssey is a 1982 documentary about the origin and history of the Moroccan Jews, directed and produced by Eugene Rosow with producers Howard Dratch & Vivian Kleiman.
Wirth-Nesher and Professor Avraham Novershtern of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Beth Shalom Aleichem co-direct the academic program, which offers 80 hours of intensive Yiddish language instruction.
With regard to these unresolved 56 cases, the commission deemed it "possible" that the children were handed over for adoption following decisions made by individual local social workers, but not as part of an official policy.
Moreover, through a female Polish agent, the British established a channel of communication with the anti-Nazi chief of the Abwehr, Admiral Wilhelm Canaris.
As the two struggle to pick up traces of her father, the Iraqi journalist takes to the streets of Baghdad, combing the Al Musbah district where Menuhin once lived with her family.
It is headed by a board of directors that in 2013 was chaired by Dennis Ross, the special advisor for the Persian Gulf Southwest Asia in U.S.
Israeli settlements Since 2005 On 5 November 2020, Israeli bulldozers demolished most of the village of Khirbet Humsa al-Fawqa and forced 73 of its Palestinian residents, including 41 children to leave in what was the largest demolition in years.
Included is a discussion of the impact of French culture and schools on the Moroccan Jews during Morocco's tenure as a French Protectorate.
After Moroccan independence in 1956, through an agreement between Isser Harel of the Mossad and Shlomo Zalman Shragai of the Jewish Agency, the two organizations would recruit Moroccan Jews and organize their clandestine migration by land and by sea.
Most of the camps transformed into development towns, among them Kiryat Shmona, Sderot, Beit She'an, Yokneam, Or Yehuda and Migdal HaEmek.
UCSJ is based in Washington, D.C., and is linked to other organizations such as the Moscow Helsinki Group.
Upon returning to Israel, Menuhin blogs about her experiences in Jordan and is then contacted by an Iraqi journalist who takes interest in her story and that of her father, Yaakoub Abdul Aziz, who disappeared in Iraq decades earlier.
History The program was run in pilot mode until 2000, after which it was expanded to other countries and took on its current form.
The effects of the worldwide economic depression of 1929 hit Keren Hayesod hard, but after Hitler's rise to power in 1933, Keren Hayesod helped to develop the Haifa Bay suburbs to provide housing for German Jews fleeing the Nazis.
List of ministers The Minister of Tourism (Hebrew: שָׁר הַתַּיָּרוּת, Sar HaTayarut) is the political head of the ministry and a member of the Israeli cabinet.
According to historian Idith Zertal, it functioned as "an impossible conglomerate of the Communists, the socialist Zionist groups, and leftist political parties, as well as Yiddishist organizations.
The office was created in 1964, with Akiva Govrin being the first minister, but was appended to the Trade and Industry Ministry between 1977 and 1981.
In the early 1990s Bay Area Council for Jewish Rescue and Renewal helped the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews to establish human rights bureaus in the Former Soviet Union to support and protect Jews and other religious and national minorities.
In 2020, certain Members of Knesset took umbrage at the fact that benefits owed to some 950 former Prisoners of Zion and former members of Jewish resistance groups were paid out based not on acts performed as Prisoners of Zion, but rather based on Prisoners' disability ratings and income.
A research scholar Shoshana Madmoni-Gerber—( author of "Israeli Media and the Framing of Internal Conflict: the Yemenite Babies Affair, 2009) had concluded in her book with hundreds of testimonies that the disappearance of babies was a state sponsored conspiracy.
The 1992 attack on the Israeli embassy and the 1994 bombing of the Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires also helped create an impetus for Jews to emigrate.
Raul Geller (Hebrew: ראול גלר; born 23 January 1936) is a Peruvian-Israeli former professional footballer, who played as a forward, and an orthopaedic surgeon.
1979 Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty Israeli settlements Israeli settlements in the Sinai Peninsula were evacuated as a result of the 1979 Egypt–Israel peace treaty.
By June 2014, it was estimated by the end of 2014 a full 1 percent of the French Jewish community will have made aliyah to Israel, the largest in a single year.
Sinclair created the following sections: A central foreign counter-espionage Circulating Section, Section V, to liaise with the Security Service to collate counter-espionage reports from overseas stations.
References External links Vaan Nguyen at IMDb Vaan Nguyen on Facebook Vaan Nguyen on Instagram Vaan nguyen in Haaretz talking about her book, "Eye of the Truffle".
Golda Meir, Foreign Minister of Israel, declared that the Moroccan authorities bore the brunt of the blame for the ship's sinking.
History The Jewish People Policy Institute (JPPI) is a think tank founded by the Jewish Agency in 2002 to protect and advance the Jewish people and Israel.
Overall, in these years, the agency, in partnership with other organizations, helped over 150,000 people in their attempt to enter Palestine, organizing a total of 141 voyages on 116 ships.
Most of El Al's aircraft are named for Israeli cities, such as Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Bet Shemesh, Nazeret, Haifa, and others.
Amnesty International wrote to the Yemeni government, urging the country to protect its Jewish citizens.
List of Palestinian villages from which tenant farmers were uprooted before 1948, with the cause of the uprooting (i.e., sale by landlord or some other cause) given along with the name of Jewish settlements on newly acquired land (in parentheses) can be seen below.
History The company's initial goals were the establishment of agricultural settlements and industrial enterprises to assist in the absorption of German Jewish immigrants.
Bricha was part of the larger operation known as Aliyah Bet, and ended with the establishment of Israel, after which immigration to the Jewish state was legal, although emigration was still sometimes prohibited, as happened in both the Eastern Bloc and Arab countries (see for example refusenik).
The collective objected to the commercialization of Hanukkah and the assimilationism they felt had turned the holiday into a "pale imitation of the goyish holiday of Christmas." The journal Chutzpah was the official organ of the Chutzpah Collective.
The founders were Yeshayahu Foerder, Georg Landauer, Ludwig Pinner, Arthur Ruppin and David Senator.
Financial instabilities in the early 1980s hit many moshavim hard, as did their high birth rate and the problem of absorbing all the children who might wish to remain in the community.
While her father never spoke about his experiences during the war, Hana later learned that he had been caught trying to cross the Russian border with his brother and his brother's son, and the Nazis had forced him to play his violin while they massacred Jews.
Demographics Jewish immigrants from the former Soviet Union Evolution among the Israeli populace Economic integration in Israel The immigrants integrated relatively successfully in the Israeli economy, and they are characterized as having a higher rate of participation in the work market.
Fourth Aliyah (1924–1929) Between 1924 and 1929, 82,000 Jews arrived, many as a result of increasing anti-Semitism in Poland and throughout Europe.
Everyone thinks that there were only Prisoners of Zion in Europe, but there were also many Ethiopians.
During 2002 and 2003 the Jewish Agency launched an intensive public campaign to promote aliyah from the region, and offered additional economic aid for immigrants from Argentina and Uruguay.
Similar instances of harassment and violence prompted Jews throughout Yemen to emigrate in larger and more frequent waves.
The Kedmi Commission; was commissioned during the Prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, in the year 1995 (after the unsuccessful conclusion of the Minkovski-Bahlul Commission and the Shalgi Commission) the commission's finding were publicly released in November 2001.
The Yemeni community was dissatisfied with the commissions findings, thus resulted in ordering a second commission in 1988 the Shalgi Commission.
Ma'abarot (Hebrew: מעברות, singular: Ma'abara Hebrew: מעברה) were immigrant and refugee absorption camps established in Israel in the 1950s, constituting one of the largest public projects planned by the state to implement its sociospatial and housing policies.
At this stage, the PCR was viewing immigration as a potential asset, since an indoctrinated Romanian Jewish colony could bring Palestine, and subsequently Israel, into the Eastern bloc, ensuring that government was formed by the Hebrew Communists.
The Life of the Jews in Palestine (French: La vie des Juifs en Palestine, Hebrew: חיי היהודים בארץ ישראל, Russian: «Жизнь евреев в Палестине») is a 1913 Russian silent documentary film directed by Noah Sokolovsky depicting Jews and Jewish communities in Ottoman Palestine.
With the establishment of the Jewish Agency in 1929, Keren Hayesod became its fundraising arm while continuing its own wide-ranging activities.
Community projects and facilities were financed by a special tax (Hebrew: מס ועד, romanized: mas va'ad, lit.
Large protests broke out in July 2019 after Solomon Teka, a young Ethiopian man, was shot and killed by an off-duty policy officer, in Kiryat Haim, Haifa, in northern Israel.
During the same year Gracia Mendes Nasi and Joseph Nasi established in addition to Tiberias seven more Jewish villages.
The Board of Deputies of British Jews sent an open letter to the WZO demanding an "explanation and calling for urgent remedial action" over the violent harassment.
Esther Meir-Glitzenstein showed evidence how the community's sentiment for aliyah played a part in the exodus, the extent of which surprised even the Jewish state and the agency in charge of the operation, who were not prepared for the mass of Jews who were fleeing Yemen.
Benvenisti elaborates: "I dissolved the Jewish Party, believing that there is no longer a need for it under the current regime." According to a notice in Adevărul: "The steering committee of the Jewish Party of Romania has decided to dissolve the party on December 4, 1947".
One is struck, in discussion with them, with the absence of the qualification, the reservation, the tentative attitude.
The Committee was established with a constitutive session on 7 June 1945, though it was only truly active from 22 July.
Military service Alalu served as a combat soldier in the Israeli Artillery Corps, an Israel Defense Forces's corps responsible for operating medium and long-range artillery.
The Young Activism programs include (a) support for Young Communities, groups of idealistic young Israelis who commit to settling long-term in Israel's high-need areas and creating programs that increase local quality of life.
Political career Pepe began his career as an activist and chairman of the Jewish student cell in Lima, Peru, and was also active in local left-wing political parties.
Book of Isaiah 40:31 – But they that wait upon the LORD shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.
As of April 2024, the president of the aid group Struggle to Save Ethiopian Jewry (SSEJ) estimated that some 13,000 people were still waiting.
Some of those immigrants returned to Argentina in the wake of Argentine economic growth from 2003 onwards.
Subsequently, a branch of the UCSJ was closed by the government of Belarus as part of what many observers saw as a wider crackdown on political dissent in the region.
Chronology of Aliyah in modern times breaks down the various waves of Aliyah, the migration of Jews to Israel in modern times, that have occurred from the 19th century to today.
The company built residential neighborhoods all over Israel, including the Rassco neighborhood in Jerusalem that bears its name.
Shoshana Bouzaglo, a very religious and traditional widow, is really upset about her daughter Eliane dating Mehdi, a Muslim boy from her technical school.
Rassco was intended to be the central instrument for middle-class settlement and housing in Palestine.
The Odessa Committee, officially known as the Society for the Support of Jewish Farmers and Artisans in Syria and Palestine, was a charitable, pre-Zionist organization in the Russian Empire, which supported immigration to the Biblical Land of Israel, then a part of the Ottoman Empire.
On 16 November 2011 SIS warned the national transitional council in Benghazi after discovering details of planned strikes, said foreign secretary William Hague.
Awards and nominations The Forgotten Refugees won the "Best Documentary Film" at the 2007 Marbella Film Festival.
Background Significant Zionist emigration from Morocco began in 1948 with the establishment of the State of Israel during the Palestine war.
In a subsequent interview, he criticized Israel for continuing to follow Zionism as a national ideology and called for the Law of Return to be reduced to a minimum.
Plans to provide immigrants with jobs requiring heavy physical labour, and with housing and plots of agricultural land in outlying areas, were generally unsuccessful, with many migrating back to camps near cities and towns on finding themselves ill-equipped or unprepared for the task.
He has been successful in lawsuits against the authorities in Lviv to preserve cemetery sites and destroyed synagogues from commercialization.
associated with the Democratic party." In December 2013, Burg confirmed the existence of Israel's nuclear weapons during a speech at a conference aimed at denuclearising the Middle East.
Preservation status The film was lost shortly after its creation until in 1997 the original negative was found in France in the vault of the Centre National de la Cinématographie (CNC) by archivist Éric Le Roy.
In 1882, members of Bilu and Hovevei Zion made what came to be known the First Aliyah to Palestine, then a part of the Ottoman Empire.
Summary The documentary explores the history, culture, and exodus of Middle Eastern and North African Jewish communities in the second half of the 20th century.
BACSJ was one of the largest and most active local grassroots organizations in the American Soviet Jewry movement.
Also discussed is the wave of immigration to Canada, specifically Montreal, with a segment on the distinct cultural reactions of the Moroccan Jews to a new life in the Canadian state.
We are indulging a request that we may neither understand nor agree with, but if it doesn't really put us out, if the flight isn't full, and there is in fact someone who will easily volunteer to switch seats, then what is everyone's colossal problem with the mere premise?
Since the beginning of the 20th century, groups of people (usually circles of young friends) moved to Palestine/Israel together.
Students who choose to make Aliyah are eligible for an absorption basket from the Ministry of Aliyah and Integration, though they will have received some of their rights as a Naale student.
Like the members of the First Aliyah (1881–1903) who came before them and established agricultural villages, most members of the Second Aliyah planned to become farmers, almost the sole career available in the agrarian economy of Ottoman Palestine.
The plot inspires itself from the tragic sinking of the Pisces (renamed Egoz), when 44 Moroccan Jews who were clandestinely emigrating to Israel lost their lives.
Types There are several organisational variants, of which the most common are: Moshav ovdim (Hebrew: מושב עובדים, lit.
History Founded as the Zionist Organization (Hebrew: הַהִסְתַּדְּרוּת הַצִּיּוֹנִית; HaHistadrut HaTsionit), or ZO, in 1897 at the First Zionist Congress, held from August 29 to August 31 in Basel, Switzerland.
Collective childrearing was also a way to escape the patriarchal society that the founders came from.
Its brand of nationalism clashed with the Romanian Communist Party and its satellite Jewish Democratic Committee, as well as with Ihud-type Labor Zionism.
I realized that I and other Prisoners of Zion had no right to a pension because we did not work [long enough] in this state.
David Waksberg led the organization from the mid-1980s to early 1990s, simultaneously holding leadership positions in the UCSJ.
Cast Marc Samuel as Henri Elkaim Rachid El Ouali as Brahim Souad Amidou as Ruth Elkaim Hafida Kassoui as Fatima, Brahim's wife Nezha Regragui as Shoshana Bouzaglo Rachel Huet as Eliane Bouzaglo Tarik Mounim as Mehdi Benchekroun Salah Dizane as Mr.
The documentary harshly attacked Israel's medical establishment in the 1950s, branding the episode "the ringworm children's holocaust" (shoat yaldei hagazezet).
The memorial is inscribed with a Hebrew Bible verse from Psalm 69:15b: "Do not let the depths swallow me up or the pit close its mouth over me." Popular culture This tragedy inspired Moroccan director Mohamed Ismaïl's film Goodbye Mothers.
Its agents were looking into the activities of a CDE secretary, Ernst Fischer, whom they had exposed as a proxy for Revisionist Zionism.
Project TEN is a service-learning program designed to build participants' Jewish identities while they serve others.
On 4 February 2021, Israel razed for the second time because of what it claimed was an illegal settlement next to a military firing range.
Although the Argentine economy improved, Jews continue to immigrate to Israel, albeit in smaller numbers than before.
Adolphe Stern died on October 20, 1931, with both the PER and the UER sending their representatives at his funeral.
At the beginning of the 20th century, Hadassah Medical Center in Jerusalem treated ringworm disease among the religious Jewish community in Jerusalem using irradiation and the disease almost disappeared.
History The first moshav, Nahalal, was established in the Jezreel Valley (also known as the Valley of Esdraelon) on September 11, 1921.
Keren Hayesod provided major funding for communities of these immigrants, establishing new fundraising campaigns around the world and renewing its presence in Germany (1955).
Union of Councils for Jews in the Former Soviet Union (UCSJ) is an American non-governmental organization that reports on the human rights conditions in countries throughout Eastern Europe and Central Asia, exposing hate crimes and assisting communities in need.
The Ministry of Tourism (Hebrew: מִשְׂרַד הַתַּיָּרוּת, romanized: Misrad HaTayarut) is the Israeli government office responsible for tourism.
kernel) is a Hebrew term used for groups of people who moved together to Ottoman Palestine, British Palestine, and since 1948, Israel.
When screened at the London International Film Festival in 1998 Clyde Jeavons of the British Film Institute said the film was "...one of the most important and enthralling re-discoveries of recent times...
Meanwhile, in Israel, Menuhin also pays visits to former members of the Iraqi-Jewish community of Baghdad, those who knew her father before themselves fleeing for Israel, to try and better understand the circumstances under which her father would have disappeared.
As a result, the incredibly abrupt transition from Ethiopian village life to Israel had a significant impact on their integration into Israeli society.
Staff conduct research, analysis, and make policy recommendations on issues such as world Jewry, the delegitimization of Israel, Israel-diaspora relations, and the Israeli political process.
Ouaknine Amina Rachid as Mrs Attar Fatima Regragui as Mama Hanna Omar Chenboud as Rabbi Braham References External links Goodbye Mothers at IMDb
Ehud Barak is the only Prime Minister to have held the position while serving as the Prime Minister.
Atidim is a national Israeli program provides scholarships and educational activities to gifted students, funded in part by the Jewish Agency.
In Peru he played for Deportivo Municipal, Porvenir Miraflores, and the Peru national football team.
More than two million Jews fled Russia between 1881 and 1920, the vast majority emigrating to the United States.
It was also shown at a hearing held by the US Congressional Human Rights Caucus which heard testimonies on the issue of Jewish refugees from Arab countries.
UCSJ uses grassroots-based monitoring and advocacy, as well as humanitarian aid, to protect the political and physical safety of Jewish people and other minorities in the region.
As the connection between the two journalists deepen, they delve further and further into Menuhin's past, as well as that of the Iraqi-Jewish community, in an attempt to find clues as to what may have happened to her father.
The scheduled departure was delayed by nearly two hours and the flight eventually departed without the affected bags, which were later sent on subsequent flight.
After Alalu immigrated to Israel, he studied education at the Faculty of Humanities of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (HUJI).
This personal experience with language led her to learn Yiddish "for herself" and to teach American and English literature at the university level.
The second operation was mainly carried out due to the intervention and international pressure of the United States.
See also Killings and massacres during the 1948 Palestine War Transfer Committee 1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight References Bibliography External links UN map of the 1947 plan The Destroyed Villages on Google Earth - Arab only Archived 2008-11-22 at the Wayback Machine
Production Sokolovsky was an adherent of Theodor Herzl's Zionist movement and his film promoted the notion "A land without a people for a people without a land" and was a useful means of mobilizing support for the Zionist cause.
In 1984 she immigrated to Israel, where she became a senior lecturer at Tel Aviv University for the next 10 years.
In Israel, this study was led by Professor Baruch Modan, who published an article in the medical journal The Lancet in 1974, in which Modan determined a strong causal linkage between irradiation of ringworm patients and the appearance of growths on the head and neck.
As a think tank focused on developing policies for the Jewish world, its main focuses are the future of the Jewish people and Israel's security.
the ma'abarot) of the choice, rather the choice in itself to bring to Israel so many thousands of immigrants, following the idea of the "One Million Plan" unveiled by Ben Gurion in 1944".
More than 10,000 Jews from Argentina immigrated to Israel since 2000, joining the thousands of previous olim already there.
Pre-modern aliyah Biblical The Hebrew Bible relates that the patriarch Abraham came to the Land of Canaan with his family and followers in approximately 1800 BC.
A key figure in formulation and organization of the ringworm campaign among the Jewish community in North Africa was Professor Moshe Prywes, who would later become president of Ben-Gurion University and the founding dean of BGU's Medical School.
After the liberation of Rivne, Eliezer and Abraham Lidovsky, and Pasha (Isaac) Rajchmann, concluded that there was no future for Jews in Poland.
On occasion, these children were transferred to hospitals without the knowledge of their families, and parents encountered great difficulties in travelling from the ma'abarot to these distant facilities.
Hundreds of thousands of documents relevant to testimonies and evidence were classified for 70 years and will not be available to the public until 2071.
Set-up in Casablanca, the movie depicts the fate of Moroccan Muslim and Jewish families during the exodus of the Jews of Morocco in the beginning of the 1960s.
The basic government grants given to each immigrant changed rapidly from the late 1980s to the late 1990s.
Alalu was active in the Zionist youth movement, first as a counselor and later as the movement's secretary.
Various historians, government officials, and members of Jewish civic and cultural life in Morocco discuss the relationship between Berber Jews and the more recently arrived Sephardic Jews, and place these into the context of the larger history of Morocco.
They soon joined up with a similar effort led by the Jewish Brigade and eventually the Haganah (the Jewish clandestine army in Palestine).
The stones represented the entirety of the Jewish nation's twelve tribes and their gratitude for God's gift of the Land of Israel (Hebrew: אֶרֶץ יִשְׂרָאֵל, Modern: Eretz Yisrael, Tiberian: ʼÉreṣ Yiśrāʼēl) to them.
Avraham "Avrum" Burg (Hebrew: אברהם "אברוּם" בוּרג; born 19 January 1955) is an Israeli author, politician, and businessman.
Shlichim are Israeli educators or cultural ambassadors, who spend an extended period of time (2 months to 5 years) abroad to "bring Israel" to the community.
She has guest lectured at numerous universities and colleges across the United States, including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Northwestern, Dartmouth, University of California at Los Angeles, University of Southern California, Rutgers, New York University, and City University of New York.
In 1999, complaints were made about the Israeli pension system, which did not credit refuseniks and Prisoners of Zion for their activism in their former countries.
After the fall of the Soviet Union BACSJ was renamed Bay Area Council for Jewish Rescue and Renewal and shifted its focus to monitoring the human rights conditions in countries throughout Eastern Europe and Central Asia and assisting former Soviet Jewish communities in need.
Vaan Nguyen (Hebrew: ואן נויין; born Nguyễn Thị Hồng Vân; April 18, 1982) is an Israeli poet, actress, journalist and social activist.
On the 777's new cabin, Premium economy is in a 2-4-2 configuration, with a seat pitch of 38" and 20" width.
He played in Peru for Deportivo Municipal (1956–1959), Porvenir Miraflores (1960–1964), and for the Peru national football team at the 1964 Copa América.
The collective defined itself as anti-imperialist, anti-racist, and anti-sexist, and credited "emerging Black and Latino pride" movements for inspiring them to embrace Jewish pride.
After American, British and Soviet armed forces liberated the camps, survivors suffered from disease, severe malnutrition and depression.
Absorption in Israel Geographical dissemination The abruptness and extensiveness of this immigration wave brought about an immediate severe shortage of housing in Israel, in the Gush Dan area in particular, and a corresponding drastic rise in the prices of residential apartments.
The project saw Dyke working closely with the SIS for a year, both in the United Kingdom and abroad.
Most of these incidents are motivated by the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, particularly Palestinian terrorism against the airline in the period between 1968 and 1990, and so incidents are separated by terrorist, politically-motivated non-terrorist, and non-politically-motivated incidents.
Other enterprises run by Rassco include a metal factory, a prefabricated building company, a hotel and a health resort.
Halakhic definition of Jewishness Orthodox interpretations of Halakha recognize only matrilineal descent.
Those Ukrainian refugees who applied for an entry permit to Israel under the Law of Return received it swiftly without further background checks if at least one of their children has taken part in the Naale program.
Following Barak's defeat in the 2001 election for Prime Minister and his subsequent resignation, Burg ran for the Labor Party leadership, and won amid accusations of voter fraud.
Alalu was arrested in a Black Panthers demonstration and was charged with unlawful assembly and rioting in a public space.
References External links Media related to The Jewish People Policy Institute at Wikimedia Commons Official website JPPI related articles on The Times of Israel Conference on the Future of the Jewish People Hackers attack Jewish People Policy Institute site on Jpost
Releases Shown at multiple Jewish film festivals in the US and worldwide and on public television networks, the film was also screened at the second annual UN panel on Jewish refugees from Arab countries.
The Israeli Justice Ministry confirmed that the land in question was owned by Palestinians and that the nine houses in question had been ordered demolished.
Ever since Yona Wallach in the 1960s and 1970s, we have not seen such a phenomenon." Poet and writer Tali Lativitzky wrote, "It is impossible to miss Vaan Nguyen's brilliant musicality.
The logo for the Ministry depicts the Biblical Spies carrying fruit back from touring the Holy Land.
In 1867, with the conclusion of the construction of the Suez Canal, many Egyptian workers could not return to their homes in Egypt, which had been occupied during their absence, and many of them settled in Palestine.
In 2009, Natan Sharansky was elected head of the Jewish Agency and Avraham Duvdevani was elected Chairman of the WZO at the 36th Zionist Congress on 15 June 2010.
In 1857, the Ottoman authorities encouraged people from all over the world to come and inhabit the land.
Tens of thousands disadvantaged children and adults are served by social and cultural programs established by Keren Hayesod.
The film chronicles the story of Linda Abdul Aziz Menuhin, an Israeli citizen who fled her native Iraq in the 1970s, and her connection with a young Iraqi journalist who reaches out to her in an effort to help her trace the disappearance of her father in Iraq shortly after she fled the country.
In 1979, Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin granted 180 Vietnamese refugees Israeli citizenship, Nguyen's parents among them.
The movie also features commentary from Nguyen's blog, which became renowned in the Israeli blogosphere.
Translated from the German by Aingeal Flanagan About Avraham Burg on Molad – the Center for the Renewal of Israeli Democracy's website.
Refusenik is a 2007 documentary film by Laura Bialis that chronicles the struggle of Jews to emigrate from the Soviet Union in the 1960s and 1970s.
The Department of Aliyah Promotion aims to motivate and assist Jews in the process of immigration to Israel, awaken an interest in learning Hebrew and strengthen ties between the Jewish Diaspora and the State of Israel.
Workers produced crops and other goods on their properties through individual or pooled labour with the profit and foodstuffs going to provide for themselves.
In 2019, an 11-day International Intelligence Directors Course was attended by top intelligence officers from 26 countries, including Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Jordan, Oman, Nigeria, Cameroon, Algeria, Afghanistan and others.
For example, in 2006 an Ethiopian Jewish Israeli, Yerga Issa, spoke out about a lack of recognition of Ethiopian Jewish Prisoners of Zion: "All I am asking for is recognition.
In 1973, Israel's Sephardi Chief Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, cited a rabbinic ruling of the Radbaz, Rabbi Azriel Hildesheimer, and two former Ashkenazic chief rabbis of Israel, Abraham Isaac Kook and Isaac Yitzhak HaLevi Herzog, declaring the Beta Yisrael Jews according to Halachah.
Kibbutzniks enjoyed a steady and gradual improvement in their standard of living in the first few decades after independence.
In 1924, the Yemeni king Imam Yahya officially forbade Jewish emigration, but the population was able to circumvent this restriction by going through the British-ruled Aden Colony.
At the same speech, he called the Russian aliyah "one of the greatest miracles that happened to the state".
The film raised much controversy and brought about a flood of reactions in favor and against the practices of child raising in Kibbutzim in those early years of the Kibbutz.
During this period, there is abundant evidence of pilgrimages to Jerusalem by Jews from various countries, mainly in the month of Tishrei, around the time of the Sukkot holiday.
ha-Misgeret 'The Framework' In 1955, the Mossad, especially David Ben-Gurion and Isser Harel, established ha-Misgeret (המסגרת 'The Framework'), a clandestine, underground Zionist militia and organization in Morocco headed by Shlomo Havilio ('Louis').
Management structure The counselors are not required to have a formal experience in education or any tertiary degree (e.g.
Geller played football in Israel for Beitar Jerusalem (1965–1970; scoring 41 goals in 1966–67 and helping the club gain promotion to the Israeli top division).
The Chutzpah Collective (also known as the Chutzpah Jewish Liberation Collective) was a left-wing Jewish collective active in Chicago during the 1970s.
Within a few years, Israel's population tripled, resulting in great distress and a heightened demand for social, educational and cultural services.
They formed an artisan guild to cover their covert activities, and they sent a group to Cernăuţi, Romania to seek out escape routes.
Compensation was available to patients (or their next of kin) treated with irradiation for ringworm between January 1, 1946, and December 31, 1960, and diagnosed with certain diseases as stipulated in the legislation.
The collective identified with "socialist Zionism" and critiqued leftists who allegedly gave uncritical support to Arab states and Palestinian militants, which was deemed antisemitic.
At the start of the 19th century, a group of students of the Vilna Gaon immigrated to the land of Israel and renewed the Jewish settlement in Safed and surrounding area, and reinforced the Jewish settlement in Jerusalem and Hebron.
The risk of stroke, heart failure, and heart attack modestly increased with the increase of weekly servings of fried food.
The cooking techniques can either be grouped into ones that use a single cooking method or a combination of wet and dry cooking methods.
Products with particulates heat up faster (compared to conventional heat processing) due to higher resistance.
The word խորոված means "grilled" or "roasted" and derives from the root խորով (khorov), which in turn comes from the Proto-Indo-European root qor, meaning "to burn".
Twitter also added a sausage-in-bread emoji to the '#ausvotes' hashtag on the day of the 2016 election; it was the most widely used emoji in relation to the election under that hashtag.
More so, it is very affordable and has been reported to retain most of the nutritional properties of food if dried using appropriate drying conditions.
Khorkhog is made by cooking pieces of meat inside a container which also contains hot stones and water, and is often also heated from the outside.
The usual way to serve kebakkos is to heat them and serve them with various sauces for dipping; the stick enables the kebakkos to be dipped and eaten by hand.
This could be done in an intensive process of maneuvering a pan, hung over a fire from the ceiling using ropes.
This technique is said to achieve the maximum extraction of flavour with little compromise to the flavour or texture of the ingredients used.
Deep frying usually takes place at temperatures between 177–205 °C (351–401 °F) so shallow-frying can oftentimes be considered a less intense cooking technique.
Dicing allows for distribution of flavour and texture throughout the dish, as well as a somewhat quicker cooking time.
Regional variations Méchoui is prepared, especially in Morocco, by digging a vertical hole, or by constructing an earthen oven, 0.8 to 1 meter in diameter and 1.5 to 2 meters deep.
Cooking In cooking, creaming is when food is prepared by slow simmering or poaching in milk or cream, such as creamed chipped beef on toast.
Beer or root beer is added to create a broth for simmering the meats which also acts as a non stick agent.
These popular items are known collectively as "baked goods," and are often sold at a bakery, which is a store that carries only baked goods, or at markets, grocery stores, farmers' markets or through other venues.
The retarding stage is often used in sourdough bread recipes to allow the bread to develop its characteristic flavor.
In empirical studies of lighting cones for Haitian charcoal stoves (which are placed over a grate rather than having an integrated grate), the ignition time and charcoal consumption were halved compared to lighting on a shallow bed grate, and carbon monoxide production was reduced by 40%.
In 2025 Meghan Markle used the technique to make a dish she called skillet spaghetti on an episode of her show With Love, Meghan; the technique again went viral.
Pellicle formation on meat and seafood Before cured foods are cold smoked, they can be allowed to air-dry to form a tacky outer layer, known as a pellicle.
For example, the Deg Hit'an and the Aleut used this cooking technique despite being above the 58-degrees latitude generalized threshold, which Harold E.
The tube may also be made of combustible material designed to resist burning long enough for the coals to ignite.
Most pans sold specifically as sauté pans have a wide flat base and low sides, to maximize the surface area available for heating.
Baking can also be used to prepare other foods such as pizzas, baked potatoes, baked apples, baked beans, some casseroles, and pasta dishes such as lasagne.
Fish such as tuna or horse mackerel are chopped and mixed with garnishes such as garlic, ginger, green onions or shiso leaves.
A sauté pan must be large enough to hold all of the food in one layer, so steam can escape, which keeps the ingredients from stewing and promotes the development of fond.
Temperature control Pellet grills use automated fuel and air delivery, and can maintain a user-selected temperature.
The fat-soluble vitamins and fatty acids in cooking oils show comparatively reasonable stability when they are used for shallow frying rather than deep frying.
Health concerns Concerns have been raised about particulates, sulfur dioxide and CO2 emissions from coal-fired pizza ovens.
The game was re-released as a PS one Classic on December 24, 2009, on the Japanese PlayStation Network.
Locked into the semi-solid fat, these air bubbles remain in the final batter, and expand as the item is baked, serving as a form of leavening agent.
The growing popularity of coal-fired pizza in the 2010s was identified as a major market for anthracite coal suppliers, most of whom are in Pennsylvania's Coal Region and generally see a declining market due to demand for alternate industrial and home heating fuel sources.
The terms charbroiling, broiling, grilling and char-grilling are often used interchangeably, though depending on the application and equipment involved there may be differences in how the food product is actually cooked.
This is aimed at the effect of preserving namerō, which is easily spoiled in the summer and cannot be stored in advance, and stimulating appetite decreased in the summer with acid.
The name comes from kebab, and the Finnish word kepakko, meaning "small stick." Kebakko represents fusion cuisine.
Dairy production In dairy production, creaming is the process of separating un-homogenized milk into cream and skimmed milk.
Charcoal types Disposable grills use either charcoal briquettes or all-natural lump charcoal as their fuel source.
A chimney is not needed because the length of the barrel acts as its own chimney and provides a draft.
The study concluded that fried food consumption may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and presents a linear dose-response relation.
The episode was filmed at the Brandywine Strawberry Festival in Brandywine, Pennsylvania, earlier in June that year.
Another indication is in the discovery of bones of animals from a very old time that do not show cutting and fleshing features but do show heat marks, which is consistent with cooking in pib.
History From the Neolithic period, ceramic steamers known as yan have been found at the Banpo site, dating to 5000 BC.
Since the coals are held together, radiation heats adjacent coals, and convection heats coals higher in the stack.
During that time, the company remained a small family-run business that distributed its pellet grills to a limited network of stores.
The latter is particularly important if using a horizontal spit and coals or an open fire, in which case the drippings cannot be salvaged for basting.
The method originated in Tosa Province, now part of Kōchi Prefecture, where it was applied to bonito (katsuo-no-tataki).
Commercial bakers often retard dough at approximately 10 °C (50 °F), while home bakers typically use refrigerators set at about 4 °C (40 °F) or below.
For a horizontal spit, it is also preferable to keep the roast further away from the heat source in the beginning, which minimizes infrared heating while preserving air convection heating.
Marzipan, made from almonds, with the addition of sugar and sometimes egg whites, is used as a center-fill in confections, or hardened to serve as a candy itself.
See also Food mill List of food preparation utensils Potato masher Potato ricer - also known as a 'ricer' - is a small, relatively inexpensive kitchen tool == References ==
Fish As opposed to dry salting, fish brining or wet-salting is performed by immersion of fish into brine, or just sprinkling it with salt without draining the moisture.
Pizzerias outside of the Northeastern United States that feature coal-fired ovens are uncommon enough to be noted in travel guides: for instance, Black Sheep Pizza with the first coal-fired oven in Minneapolis, or URBN in San Diego.
The nomadic populations, in addition to their main herd often composed of several thousand sheep, raise a small number of male lambs specifically for méchoui, feeding them with cheih, a species of wild mugwort which gives the lamb a distinctive character.
Aromatics including white or purple onions, bell peppers, Jalapeno or Serrano peppers, olives, and tomatoes are also used to add flavor and color to the dish.
Format Most commonly, the main sale item at a sausage sizzle is a pork or beef sausage (often colloquially referred to as a "snag"), cooked on a grill or barbecue and served on a single slice of white sandwich bread, or a hot dog roll in Western Australia.
Alternating current When current varies, as it does in AC circuits, P ( t ) = U ( t ) I ( t ) {\displaystyle P(t)=U(t)I(t)} where t is time and P is the instantaneous active power being converted from electrical energy to heat.
Pan-frying, sautéing, and stir-frying involve cooking foods in a thin layer of fat on a hot surface, such as a frying pan, griddle, wok, or sautee.
The meat is cut into small pieces, placed in a pot with oil, sprinkled with salt and pepper, and fried.
As illustrated by the temperature profiles of the average charbroiler, operators also tend to manage hot spots by inclining the grates as design allows and so placing the food further away from the elevated heat zone.
Following a severe downturn in business in the US, partly attributed to the fall in new housing on the back of the sub-prime mortgage crisis, Barbeques Galore USA filed for protection under Chapter 11 on 15 August 2008.
It is a promotional tie in to the Gyu-Kaku restaurant chain, where the player must serve customers barbecue products while maintaining the customers' patience.
See also Notes References External links Media related to Frying at Wikimedia Commons Best Easy Ways to Use Air Fryer for [1] How Does an Air Fryer Work [2]
It is a variation of boodog, an older Mongolian dish made with hot stones in which the meat is cooked inside an animal skin.
See also List of Middle Eastern dishes List of African dishes List of barbecue dishes List of lamb dishes List of spit-roasted foods Food portal == References ==
Mechanical turnspits ("roasting jacks") were later invented, first powered by dogs on treadmills, and then by steam power and mechanical clockwork mechanisms.
Cultural and religious significance Baking, especially of bread, holds special significance for many cultures.
This refers to a period of rest after the initial mixing of flour and water, a rest period that occurs sequentially before the addition of yeast, salt and other ingredients.
To start the grill, the user removes the outer packaging and lights the corner of the starter sheet.
Hawaii Teriyaki was brought to Hawaii by Japanese immigrants and evolved based on local ingredients and preferences.
Magocha is a local dish of the coastal area of the Izu Peninsula, where it is not seared but is served with dashi stock on the sashimi.
Retarding may occur at any time during fermentation and is accomplished by placing the dough into a dough retarder, refrigerator, or other cold environment to slow the activity of the yeast.
The food is covered with water and put in a covered ceramic jar and the jar is then steamed for several hours.
The meaning of the Chinese character for dun in Cantonese is different from that in Mandarin, because dun means to simmer or stew in Mandarin.
Dried fruits have been consumed historically due to their high sugar content and sweet taste, and a longer shelf-life from drying.
As of 2007, coal-fired ovens were quite uncommon in the Western United States with only five others west of the Mississippi: four in an Arizona chain and one more in Las Vegas.
The term "sausage sizzle" came into common use in the 1980s and is used primarily to refer to the barbecuing event, but also to the sausage itself, mostly in Western Australia.
Generally speaking, when a whole animal is being spit roasted, it is best rotated faster in the early part of the roasting, to help interior temperature rise without burning the exterior.
In late 2005, the firm was delisted from the Nasdaq after a leveraged buy-out by Australian venture capital firm, Ironbridge Capital.
In order to accommodate the dish in homes or backyards, this dish is often prepared in a large pot in much smaller quantities.
Hard panned products are distinguished from soft by the composition of their coating: these are made of solids dissolved into a solvent until saturated.
Dried fish most commonly cod or haddock, known as Harðfiskur, is a delicacy in Iceland, while dried reindeer meat is a traditional Sámi food.
With the fingers of the right hand, the host takes pieces of grilled meat and offers them to guests.
Charbroilers are energy intensive, and commonly use 15,000 to 30,000 BTU of gas per burner, per hour.
The base is made up of woven bamboo strips, and production can take anywhere from 15 minutes to several hours depending on its size.
Crinkle-cutting French fries makes them absorb more fry oil and increases their ability to retain dipping sauce.
Cans of soft drink or bottled water may also be available for purchase, especially to maximise fundraising.
This type of rice is eaten in the districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada of Karnataka state, in the state of Kerala, and in most parts of Tamil Nadu, Bihar, and West Bengal in India.
Meat and fish are typically brined for less than twenty-four hours while vegetables, cheeses and fruit are brined in a much longer process known as pickling.
The word is from the Old French parbouillir, 'to boil thoroughly' but by mistaken association with "part", it has acquired this definition.
The salt draws moisture from the interior of the meat to the surface, where it mixes with the salt and is then reabsorbed with the salt essentially brining the meat in its own juices.
Tour stop Big Fat Daddy's was named a 2015 York, Pennsylvania Factory Tour Stop by the York Convention and Visitor's Bureau.
However, bark baskets were preferred to bark containers because they did not burn as easily, which made them more durable.
ABC affiliates Schafer has made several TV appearances on ABC stations supporting local fairs of which he's been a long-time veteran.
Wet Wet-heat, immersion-based cooking methods are the predominant class of cooking techniques in Chinese cuisine and are usually referred to as zhǔ (煮).
They are used to flavour soups and sausages, in the preparation of salad dressings, and directly as spreads.
Yeast extracts Yeast extracts, usually as byproduct from brewing beer, are made into food pastes, usually dark-brown in colour.
Compared to participants with a low intake, those who ate the most fried food had a 37% increased risk of heart failure, a 28% increased risk of major cardiovascular events, and a 22% increased risk of coronary heart disease.
The dry ingredients are mixed or beaten with the softened fat until it becomes light and fluffy, increasing in volume due to the incorporation of tiny air bubbles.
Unlike traditional khorovats, which is cooked over an open fire, khazani khorovats is prepared in a pot (kazan).
Modern commercial models are usually sheet steel cylinders about 6–8 in (15–20 cm) in diameter and 8–12 in (20–30 cm) tall.
A disposable grill is a specific barbecue grill type which is used in a single application, with the grill being recycled or disposed of after use.
In 1950 the Maine Department of Sea and Shore Fisheries published a 12-page booklet titled "How to Prepare a Maine Clambake with Lobsters and All the Fixin's".
In the most basic, food is pushed or pressured through a metal or plastic plate with many small holes, producing a smoother result than mashing, but coarser than pureeing or passing through a sieve or tamis.
When the earth surrounding the hole is smoking and the wood is transformed into embers and ashes, most of it is removed to avoid flare-ups.
The structure of these starchy coatings become rigid and porous when heated in oil; this is due to their high amylose content.
Barbeques Galore distributes Kamado Joe ceramic grills and accessories, and also carries a wide range of other leading brands, including Beefeater, Everdure by Heston Blumenthal, ProQ, Masterbuilt, and Traeger.
Proofing can also refer to the process of testing the viability of dry yeast by suspending it in warm water with carbohydrates (sugars).
It formed the main protein source for the slaves on the West Indian plantations, and was a major economic force within the triangular trade.
Chinese cooking techniques (Chinese: 中餐烹調法) are a set of methods and techniques traditionally used in Chinese cuisine.
Pellet grills, sometimes referred to as pellet smokers, are outdoor cookers that combine elements of charcoal smokers, gas grills, and kitchen ovens.
Duty cycles are typically stated as a percentage that represents the amount of time the auger is running—an auger that's always on has a 100% duty cycle, while one that is on half the time has a 50% duty cycle.
After ten years as a listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange, Barbeques Galore delisted in 1996, and listed on the US Nasdaq soon after.
See also General terms: Glazing agent Icing Pastry brush In baking and confectionery: Couverture chocolate Enrobing Marron glacé In cooking: Demi-glace Meat glaze == References ==
A typical medieval English glaze was the 'Elizabethan' glaze made from lightly beaten egg white and sugar used predominantly on pastries of the time.
A grate or mesh to hold charcoal is placed horizontally inside the cylinder about 3 in (7.6 cm) from the bottom; this is sometimes conical.
See also Curanto, Mapudungun earth oven Pachamanca, Andean earth oven Ximbó, Ñähñú earth oven References Bibliography Alonzo Báez, W.; Reyes-May, O.
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
Parboiling can also be used for removing poisonous or foul-tasting substances from foods, and to soften vegetables before roasting them.
Winter melon is believed to be nourishing and it is seldom cooked with ingredients that are believed to be too yin or too yang.
Polynesians have various open containers for this purpose like the kumete, ʻumete or ʻumeke, made of wood or calabash; the Māori of New Zealand have scaled-up wooden troughs known as kōhua, the name has since lent to introduced metal pots and pans.
Most steamers are designed to be stacked on top of each other so that the steam can cook multiple servings simultaneously, as well as fit on the table (often on a Lazy Susan) while being served.
Rarely used in the confectionery industry, suspensions are used as an alternative to soft panning, avoiding the dust the process usually creates.
This provides a larger surface area for heat to be concentrated in the center, allowing for things like tortillas and toast to be prepared along the edges.
The dish is said to be a relatively modern, 20th-century invention, dating back to the time of the Soviet Union's military presence in Mongolia, when Mongolians began cooking with cast-off Red Army water jugs.
Kotlovina has historically been prepared and served outdoors but is today a common dish served in local restaurants that serve Croatian cuisine.
Walnut paste (საცივი) is a Georgian specialty, and is used unsweetened as a bread dip, or sweetened as a center-fill in a baklava-like pastry.
In the case of cooking that lasts for several hours, both dry and green wood (freshly cut) are added, so that the charcoal remains hot for longer.
History It is known that Native Americans in what is now the eastern United States developed techniques to bake (or steam) clams, at least in Florida.
Examples Doughnut glaze is made from a simple mixture of confectioner's sugar and water, which is then poured over the doughnuts.
Tomato paste is made from boiling tomatoes until they form a thick paste which is stored for later use in soups, sauces and stews.
Studies have shown that margarine, virgin olive oil and similar cooking oils oxidize and destabilize substantially when they are shallow-fried, especially when compared to oils used during baking.
The stones used for cooking are then placed in the center of the pit and a wood fire is started, although the exact method of heating the stones varies.
The spit could also be powered by a turbine mounted in the chimney with a worm transmission for torque and speed conversion.
The restaurant's low-cost chicken and beef skewers in teriyaki sauce inspired other restaurants in the area.
At Head-Smashed-In Buffalo Jump, no complete boiling stones were found after eight seasons of excavation, which according to Jack W.
The amount of le' will also depend on the season of the year: in the rainy season, more firewood will be put but less cover, and in the dry season, it will be the other way around; the more leaf, the more steam.
Development and popularity Stewart's technique was learned by Nora Singley, one of Stewart's recipe developers, from an Italian cook in Apulia in 2011 and was published in Martha Stewart Living in 2013.
Baked custards, such as crème caramel, are among the items that need protection from an oven's direct heat, and the bain-marie method serves this purpose.
Rhode Island businessmen operated many clambake pavilions, and the first published clambake recipe credited that state as the origin.
Etymology In Yucatán it is mostly known as pib, or píib according to the current Mayan spelling promoted by the Academy of the Mayan Language.
Namerō placed on top of rice, with green tea is poured over it to make chazuke, is called magocha (孫茶).
Kotlovina is a Croatian fried and stewed meat dish from Zagreb and the surrounding northwest Croatia.
Clarified butter, rapeseed oil and sunflower oil are commonly used for sautéing; whatever the fat, it must have a smoke point high enough to allow cooking on medium-high heat, which is the temperature at which sautéing is done.
Variations A teriyaki burger (テリヤキバーガー) is a variety of hamburger either topped with teriyaki sauce or with the sauce worked into the ground meat patty.
Diners usually eat khorkhog with their fingers, although knives may be used to slice the meat off the bone.
In Shimanoura, a remote island off the coast of Nobeoka, Miyazaki Prefecture, there is a dish called tatakko (たたっこ), which is similar to namerō, and the grilled dish corresponding to sanga in the Boso Peninsula is also called 'tatakko'.
Similar to other heating methods, ohmic heating causes gelatinization of starches, melting of fats, and protein agglutination.
To facilitate this, the ingredients are rapidly moved around in the pan, either by the use of a utensil or by repeatedly jerking the pan itself.
Yakiniku Bugyou (Japanese: 焼肉奉行, Hepburn: Yakiniku Bugyō) is a simulation video game developed and published by Media Entertainment for the PlayStation.
In cooking, a glaze is a glossy, translucent coating applied to the outer surface of a dish by dipping, dripping, or using a brush.
Some research shows shallow frying and deep frying highly increased the acrylamide content in foods like potatoes and grains to a similar degree.
When left to stand for 12 to 24 hours, fresh milk tends to separate into a high-fat cream layer on top of a larger, low-fat milk layer, because fat is less dense than water.
Pellicles of protein that form prior to smoking meat (including fish and poultry) allow smoke to better adhere to the surface of the meat during the smoking process.
Indigenous peoples’ first use of stone boiling, based on archaeological excavations in the Northern Plains, was dated at 4800 years ago.
It is reported that the stand closed sometime in 2003, but the building still remains and has since been operational as a pit beef stand under many different names.
三辛焼き spelling: The spelling derived from the use of three (三) spicy (辛) foods: ginger, green onion, and perilla.
A savory glaze such as demi-glace can be made from reduced stock or meat glaze that is poured onto meat or vegetables.
Basic technique The food items are added to boiling water and cooked until they start to soften, then removed before they are fully cooked.
They are used commonly in Chinese cuisine, especially dim sum, and usually come in two or more layers.
Water is traditionally removed through evaporation by using methods such as air drying, sun drying, smoking or wind drying, although today electric food dehydrators or freeze-drying can be used to speed the drying process and ensure more consistent results.
Chinese medicinal ingredients (including hasma), spices, and rock sugar, are placed inside a young coconut to soak in the original coconut juice.
Potatoes are the most commonly "riced" foods, as in the dish riced potatoes, essentially a smoother version of mashed potatoes.
Buccan or Boucan is the native South American and Caribbean name for a wooden framework or hurdle on which meat was slow-roasted or smoked over a fire.
After several years, the fish liquefies and can be processed into paste or anchovy butter, Caviar and other types of roe.
Traeger Grills The Traeger pellet grill was created by Joe Traeger in 1985, and it was granted a patent in 1987.
FJH has also been used to recover rare-earth elements used in modern electronics from industrial wastes.
Another common dish is called breakfast discada, which is huevos rancheros cooked using the discada.
Environmental impact Disposable grills have been criticized for their single-use nature and potential to cause wildfires.
Once an ideal cooking heat is reached on the disk (usually medium to low heat works best) the first meat to be introduced is the bacon.
Parboiling is usually used to partially cook an item which will then be cooked another way such as braising, grilling, or stir-frying.
Cooking artfully 'riced' cauliflower, then mashing it before serving, provides a more health-supporting vegetable dish that resembles mashed potatoes.
The use of high voltages in electric power transmission systems is specifically designed to reduce such losses in cabling by operating with commensurately lower currents.
This is often an advantage, especially in situations where drying is the desired outcome, like drying herbs or roasting certain types of vegetables.
Cooked food In the first tataki method, the meat or fish is seared very briefly over a hot flame or in a pan, and can be briefly marinated in vinegar, sliced thin, and seasoned with ginger (which is ground or pounded into a paste, hence the name).
Some cooks make a distinction between the two based on the depth of the oil used, while others use the terms interchangeably.
Most of the time, the kernel is made up of a sugar that will not crystalize such as glucose, and the coating produced is relatively thick.
They are also known in the Western world for its role in cooking and serving dim sum particularly during the practice of yum cha.
The pellicle plays a role in producing better smoked products as it acts as a protective barrier for the food and also plays a role in enhancing the flavor and color produced by the smoke.
Users of all-natural lump charcoal emphasize the subtle smoky aromas, high heat production, and lack of chemicals, binders and fillers often present in briquets.
Schafer has also gained publicity for his Maryland Crab Dip in a Bread Boule appearing on season one and season two of Food Network's Carnival Eats.
Useful in all smoking applications and with any kind of animal protein, it is best used with fish where the flesh of a fish such as salmon forms a pellicle that will attract more smoke to adhere to it than would be the case if it had not been used.
Preparation To make khorkhog, Mongolians take mutton (goat meat can be substituted) and cut it into pieces of an appropriate size while leaving the bones attached.
In 2016, when Bunnings expanded to the United Kingdom, it brought the sausage sizzle there as well, resulting in considerable media coverage.
These materials also serve to diffuse the heat generated by the burners, and do so effectively, though inconsistently.
Pineapple juice is sometimes used, as it not only provides sweetness but also bromelain enzymes that help tenderize the meat.
Technique The dish involves cooking all ingredients in a pot of boiling water that just covers the pasta rather than the more-typical technique of boiling the pasta in a large amount of water and making a sauce in a separate pan.
See also Enrober — a machine that typically covers confections with chocolate References == Sources ==
Brining is similar to marination, except that a marinade usually includes a significant amount of acid, such as vinegar or citrus juice.
The difference is mostly in shape; instead of a ball, kebakko is a piece of meat about 12 cm in length on a wooden stick, usually sold in packs of five to twelve.
The elevated heat pattern from this plume effect is generally predictable and visible on the grates themselves.
Lore has it that it was developed by Sakamoto Ryōma, a 19th-century rebel samurai, who picked up the European technique of grilling meat from the foreigners resident in Nagasaki.
The word teriyaki derives from the noun teri (照り), which refers to a shine or luster given by the sugar content in the tare (タレ), and yaki (焼き), which refers to the cooking method of grilling or broiling.
References Further reading Shott, Chris (October 5, 2015), "Why Is Everybody Freaking Out About Coal-Fired Pizza?
Dicing usually applies to vegetables prepared in this way but it can also apply to the preparation of meat or fish and fruit.
In fact, this class of techniques is so common and important that the term zhǔ is commonly used to denote cooking in general.
It is a popular seasonal food eaten during spring and summer and belongs to traditional Croatian dishes.
In 2019, Barbeques Galore's sales were close to the $200 million mark As part of a transformation of the brand, in 2020, Barbeques Galore launched a new TV campaign, ‘Now you’re cooking’, and also commenced the rollout of new store design, creating a more engaging in-store experience.
After that, fresh pomegranate juice is poured into the pot, mixed, and the dish is removed from heat.
Ricing is a cooking term meaning to pass food through a food mill or "ricer", which comes in several forms.
From this derived the French word boucane and hence the name boucanier for French hunters who used such frames to smoke meat from feral cattle and pigs on Hispaniola (now Haiti and the Dominican Republic).
Therefore, the embedding of a discourse in an interdiscourse is an ideological interpretation of the discourse.
Also known as the Pareto–Zipf law, it is a power-law distribution on ranked data, named after the linguist George Kingsley Zipf, who suggested a simpler distribution called Zipf's law, and the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot, who subsequently generalized it.
Fragments of Homer and Hesiod represent the earliest Western treatments of poetic theory, followed later by the work of the lyricist Pindar.
Multimodality: Foundations, research and analysis – A problem-oriented introduction (with Janina Wildfeuer and Tuomo Hiippala; de Gruyter, 2017).
According to this theory, systems are a key organising feature of grammar, and each system originates "at a particular rank: clause, phrase, group and their associated complexes".
the graph of the number of species observed as a function of their abundance) is often found to conform to a Zipf–Mandelbrot law.
The Birth of the Clinic: An Archaeology of Medical Perception (French: Naissance de la clinique – Une archéologie du regard médical), a 1963 book by Michel Foucault, presents the development of la clinique (the teaching hospital) as a medical institution.
Core FEs are essential to the meaning of the frame while non-core FEs are generally descriptive (such as time, place, manner, etc.) For example: The only core FE of the Being_born frame is called Child; non-core FEs Time, Place, Means, etc.
it does not rely on any particular model of language or cognition), and can therefore be used alongside a range of different models of cognition and grammar.
This is contrary to the a priori grammar postulate, the idea that grammar rules exist in the mind before the production of utterances.
The authors found that participants from the three professions emphasised different areas of spatial cognition.
A unique feature of the thematic equative is its conveying of a meaning of exclusiveness in the rheme.
Michael Lewis, in his book The New New Thing, published in 1999, noted that "When a computer programmer answers a question, he often begins with the word 'so.'" Microsoft employees have long argued that the "so" boom began with them.
Since frames are essentially semantic descriptions, they are similar across languages, and several projects have arisen over the years that have relied on the original FrameNet as the basis for additional non-English FrameNets, for Spanish, Japanese, German, and Polish, among others.
Examples of semantic arguments Bribery is about giving somebody something of significant value to make him do something we want.
Examples of dangling "so": "Yeah, it's pretty exciting, though we're not really sure whether it will work out, so..." Speaker 1: "How was your date?" Speaker 2: "Well, he didn't show up, so..." Intensifying adverb "So" may close a sentence as an intensifying adverb, such as in "I love her so".
But if the term 'knowledge' is used when skeptical hypotheses are being discussed, we count as "knowing" very little, if anything.
The term poetics derives from the Ancient Greek ποιητικός poietikos "pertaining to poetry"; also "creative" and "productive".
Corpus-assisted discourse studies (abbr.: CADS) is related historically and methodologically to the discipline of corpus linguistics.
In systemic functional grammar, a thematic equative is a thematic resource in which two or more separate elements in a clause are grouped together to form a single constituent of the theme-plus-rheme structure.
The Poetics itemized the salient genres of ancient Greek drama into three categories (comedy, tragedy, and the satyr play) while drawing a larger-scale distinction between drama, lyric poetry, and the epic.
An 18th-century doctor would examine a diseased organ as would a 19th-century doctor, yet, because of their different medical cultures, these doctors would reach different conclusions about the cause and treatment of the disease.
Subframe: Some frames refer to complex scenarios that consist of several individual states or events that can be described by separate frames.
It aims to take seriously two ideas: first, that media texts involve 'the construction of stories by other means'; and second, that in an age marked by digital connectivity, media texts are inherently interactive phenomena.
Semantic structure analysis (or SSA) is a methodology for systematic description of the intended meaning of natural language, developed by the Summer Institute of Linguistics.
Life and career Schegloff was born in a Jewish household in Brooklyn, New York and raised in Boston.
Since interdiscourse privileges certain interpretations, it has a close affinity to the concepts of ideology, hegemony and power (sociology).
The coding procedures should be laid out in such a way that a layman could follow them, which allows for reliability checking using an independent coder, as well as replication of the findings by other researchers.
A word sketch database is a set of such triples or quintuples, which may be generated either by querying a corpus using corpus query language or by parsing the corpus using a natural language parser.
Sapir says that a fundamental principle of statement analysis is that "denying guilt is not the same as denying the act.
The "criteria-based content analysis" (CBCA) is a core component of the SVA and is a tool used to distinguish true statements from false statements as CBCA scores are expected to be higher for truth tellers than liars.
Some dictionaries indicate words that are pejoratives, but do not include all the contexts in which words might be acceptable or offensive to different social groups.
Arguments to definition and from definition can be used together (Douglas Walton called the latter Arguments from Definition to Verbal Classification").
For DP, SSK and MCA, however, there can be no socially meaningful sense of the non-linguistic without the founding, constitutive force of language.
L2 (English) Corpora Cambridge Learner Corpus Corpus of Academic Written and Spoken English (CAWSE), a collection of Chinese students’ English language samples in academic settings.
The term was coined by Thora Tenbrink to describe a kind of discourse analysis that had been carried out by researchers in linguistics and other fields.
A comprehensive bibliography of discourse-oriented corpus studies is compiled at Edge Hill University.
"Nacionalistički krugovi usađuju krivo uvjerenje da svaka nacija mora imati zaseban jezik: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [Nationalistic circles spread the prejudice that every nation must have a different language: Interview with Snježana Kordić] (in Serbo-Croatian).
Since their main function is at the level of discourse (sequences of utterances) rather than at the level of utterances or sentences, discourse markers are relatively syntax-independent and usually do not change the truth conditional meaning of the sentence.
Matthiessen completed his undergraduate degree at Lund University in 1980, where he studied English, Arabic, and philosophy.
Chilton developed a three-dimensional model to analyze semantic structure in natural languages, based on spatial cognition and using a formalism derived from vector geometry.
It denotes at least three levels: In Courtine interdiscursivity means that a discourse has a relation to another discourse.
Carrying a bullet in his breast pocket; he claimed someone once threw a Bible at him and the bullet saved his life.
History of development Sketch Engine is a product of Lexical Computing, a company founded in 2003 by the lexicographer and research scientist Adam Kilgarriff.
Such research is often labelled as corpus-based or corpus-assisted discourse analysis, with the term CADS coined by a research group in Italy (Partington 2004) for a specific type of corpus-assisted discourse analysis (see the section 'in different countries' below).
Contextualization cues As previously mentioned, contextualization cues are crucial in that they are the clues that allow observers to better understand the interaction being presented.
Countries such as The Netherlands, Germany and Sweden use these techniques as scientific evidence in court.
(2000) Construing experience through meaning: a language-based approach to cognition, Open linguistics series, Continuum International.
John Arnold Bateman (born 1957) is a British linguist and semiotician known for his research on natural language generation and multimodality.
Global WordNet Association The Global WordNet Association (GWA) is a public and non-commercial organization that provides a platform for discussing, sharing and connecting wordnets for all languages in the world.
During this period he worked on multilanguage generation, speech generation, English grammar, semantics and discourse, and systemic functional theory.
(2014) 'An introduction to language aggression against women', Journal of Language Aggression and Conflict, 2(2): 177-182.
Berger and Thomas Luckmann who in the 1960s studied the processes involved in the social construction of generally accessible everyday knowledge in their defining work, The Social Construction of Reality.
"Ćirilica u Vukovaru nije znak dvojezičnosti: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [In Vukovar, Cyrillic is not a sign of bilingualism: Interview with Snježana Kordić] (in Serbo-Croatian).
A corpus manager usually represents a complex tool that allows one to perform searches for language forms or sequences.
Classical thinkers, and thinkers of previous epistems, could talk about the mind and the body, about the human being, and about his very limited place in the universe; they could talk about all the limits of knowledge and his freedom.
By 2023, more than 3 billion characters of news media texts have been filtered, of which 700 million characters have been processed and analyzed and have yielded an expanding Pan-Chinese dictionary of 2.5 million words from the Pan-Chinese printed media.
In linguistics and in particular in natural language understanding, a dialog act can be interpreted as the atomic units of a conversation, more fine-grained than utterances, characterized by a specific communicative function.
Sequence: now, then Causality: because Coordination: and, or non-coordination: but Structural markers indicate the hierarchy of conversational actions at the time in which they are spoken.
Text corpora are used by both AI developers to train large language models and corpus linguists and within other branches of linguistics for statistical analysis, hypothesis testing, finding patterns of language use, investigating language change and variation, and teaching language proficiency.
The issue is no longer whether mediated texts transmit in/accurate in-formation, but how they act as "vehicles for action", where such actions might include defending someone, accusing someone, confessing to something, or any number of other things.
Address and the semiotics of social relations: A systemic-functional account of address forms and practices in Australian English.
A word sketch is a one-page, automatic, corpus-derived summary of a word’s grammatical and collocational behaviour.
The word quizzaciously was cited by Vsauce host Michael Stevens in 2015 as an example of a hapax legomenon, with Google only returning one search result for the word at the time despite being included in the Oxford English Dictionary.
Aristotle Aristotle distinguished between five virtues of thought: technê, epistêmê, phronêsis, sophia, and nous, with techne translating as "craft" or "art" and episteme as "knowledge".
This is in contrast with "The guests need an omelette for breakfast," which leaves open the possibility that they also need other things for breakfast.
He has worked at Kyoto University, the USC Information Sciences Institute, the German National Research Center for Information Technology, Saarland University, and the University of Stirling.
Ambiguity arises in cases such as with the word flies, and whether it should be classified as a noun or a verb.
In linguistics, spoken corpora are used to do research into phonetic, conversation analysis, dialectology and other fields.
Full typology of semantic arguments includes classification of persuasive definitions (the notion coined by Charles Stevenson) developed by Tadeusz Pawlowski.
CLAWS8 tagset CLAWS8 tagset was extended from C7 tagset with further distinctions in the determiner and pronoun categories, as well as 37 new auxiliary tags for forms of be, do, and have.
"Grammar, language and the social: Poststructuralism and systemic-functional linguistics." Social Semiotics 3.1.
It stands for the context in which a text, or object, has been created, and its function and purpose at that time.
Catherine "Cate" McKean Poynton (1942 – 2021) was an Australian linguist known for her contributions to systemic functional linguistics.
Whereas the joke normally is narrated as a vulgar series of actions followed by the clean punch line, Liebman narrates a very aristocratic series of actions followed by a very vulgar punch line.
And once you reject—as these approaches reject—the possibility of some non-linguistic arbiter of accuracy, it follows that all descriptions (whether those we decide to treat as accurate or those we do not) have to be understood as the products of particular, locally specific contexts.
A full account of epistêmê is given in Posterior Analytics, where Aristotle argues that knowledge of necessary, rather than contingent, truths regarding causation is foundational for episteme.
The word derives from the root זכה z-ch-h, meaning clear/transparent and refers to glass or crystal.
Ulrike Hanna Meinhof is an Emeritus Professor in the Department of Modern Languages at the University of Southampton in Hampshire.
Manatee Manatee is a database management system specifically devised for effective indexing of large text corpora.
Applications The distribution of words ranked by their frequency in a random text corpus is approximated by a power-law distribution, known as Zipf's law.
Therefore, people using WordNet must apply their own methods to identify offensive or pejorative words.
As a comedic device, this was a favorite of Woody Allen; for a time, he used so many switcheroos that friends referred to him as "Allen Woody." Some of Allen's switcheroo gags include: Carrying a sword on the street; in case of an attack it turned into a cane, so people would feel sorry for him.
The interviewer, an African-American graduate student in educational psychology, has been sent to interview a woman at her home in a low-income neighborhood.
Thanks first of all to Giovanni Boccaccio's Genealogia Deorum Gentilium (1360), the literate elite gained a rich understanding of metaphorical and figurative tropes.
The contents are thus deliberately repetitive in most cases, represented by textual samples drawn from editorials, local and international news, cross-Taiwan Strait news, as well as news on finance, sports and entertainment.
Key publications Books Text generation and systemic-functional linguistics: experiences from English and Japanese (with Christian M.
The epistemic change Foucault's thesis about the birth of the clinic (teaching hospital) contradicts the histories of medicine that present the late 18th century as the beginning of a new empirical system "based on the rediscovery of the absolute values of the visible" material reality.
Finally, whether a person uses formal or informal language, allows the relationship between the two speakers to be clear.
Some of this work aims to elucidate specific features of discourse types (news, social media, television series, etc.), while other work is rooted in the tradition of corpus-based critical discourse analysis.
He finished a PhD in 1967 and moved to Columbia University, where he was an assistant professor of sociology at the Teacher's College.
A dialog system typically includes a taxonomy of dialog types or tags that classify the different functions dialog acts can play.
"The privileging of representation and the marginalising of the interpersonal: a metaphor (and more) for contemporary gender relations." Feminine, Masculine and Representation.
Retrieval time required to access conceptual knowledge seemed to be directly related to the number of hierarchies the speaker needed to "traverse" to access the knowledge.
Developed in the early 1980s, CLAWS was built to fill the ever-growing gap created by always-changing POS necessities.
Consequently, the definition of the levels depends on the definition of discursive formation and types of discourse, and the three levels may collapse to the extent that these concepts are not conceived.
Details of how frame elements can be realized in a sentence are important because this reveals important information about the subcategorization frames as well as possible diathesis alternations (e.g.
Results from the extensive and accumulative data analysis contained in LIVAC have enabled the cultivation of textual databases of proper names, place names, organization names, new words, and bi-weekly and annual rosters of media figures.
In 2002 he took up a chair at Macquarie until 2008, when he was appointed chair and head of the Department of English at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
That said, some implementations of translation memory, such as Translation Memory eXchange (TMX), a standard XML format for exchanging translation memories between computer-assisted translation (CAT) programs, allow preserving the original order of sentences.
Dialog act recognition, also known as spoken utterance classification, is an important part of spoken language understanding.
It is colloquially used in reference to an act of intentionally or unintentionally swapping two objects.
The standards for attributing knowledge to someone, the contextualist claims, vary from one user's context to the next.
Results are drawn from a special corpus of high-quality texts covering everyday, standard, formal, and professional language and displayed as a concordance.
Methodology Because of its use in different fields, the precise methodology can vary between papers.
NTU-Multilingual Corpus in 7 languages (ara, eng, ind, jpn, kor, mcn, vie) (legacy repo) SeedLing corpus - A Seed Corpus for the Human Language Project with 1000+ languages from various sources.
The sociology of knowledge approach to discourse (SKAD) is a social science research programme for studying discourse developed by Reiner Keller in order to analyze knowledge relationships and conditions in society.
Along with his collaborators Harvey Sacks and Gail Jefferson, Schegloff is regarded as a co-creator of the field of conversation analysis.
Most likely, when an interaction between two people who are peers and/or familiar with one another will utilize the informal form of language.
In all of these examples, the meaning is that the only thing the guests need for breakfast is an omelet.
Text corpora (singular: text corpus) are large and structured sets of texts, which have been systematically collected.
Rules and processing CLAWS uses a Hidden Markov model to determine the likelihood of sequences of words in anticipating each part-of-speech label.
In fact the term is a sociological one, describing a typical situation within any community" so that the meaning of the text is bound up with its function in the community, and social context.
They mark a development that most clearly took place in the 90s through the publication of various edited volumes - most importantly the book Interaction and Grammar edited by Elinor Ochs, Emanuel Schegloff and Sandra Thompson.
Before the end of the eighteenth century, Man did not exist — any more than the potency of life, the fecundity of labour, or the historical density of language.
Ideally, the technique would guide investigators to ask follow-up questions to uncover discrepancies.
Keller combines this approach with Michel Foucault's discourse theory, which is responsible for the prominent role of discourse concepts in social science and inspired several approaches to discourse analysis in other scientific disciplines.
The term rank scale was developed by Michael Halliday and is associated with systemic functional linguistics, the school of linguistic theory and description of which he is the originator.
Interactional linguistics can also be considered compatible with construction grammar and cognitive grammar.
A corpus manager (corpus browser or corpus query system) is a tool for multilingual corpus analysis, which allows effective searching in corpora.
Extraction techniques can differentiate between bilingual elements represented in both corpora and monolingual elements represented in only one corpus in order to extract cleaner parallel fragments of bilingual elements.
Paul Anthony Chilton (born 21 October 1944) is a British cognitive linguist and discourse analyst known for his work on conceptual metaphor, cognitive stylistics, and political discourse.
This device is particularly used when answering questions although the questioner may also use the device.
Her main areas of research involve ethnographic research in European border communities and a comparative media-project about the 20th century on television.
Anything that is true about the parent frame must also be true about the child frame, and a mapping is specified between the frame elements of the parent and the frame elements of the child.
Both arguments are defined as the smallest string that expresses the meaning of the utterances to be connected.
The "Windows" approach is the most innovative feature of LIVAC and has enabled Pan-Chinese media texts to be quantitatively analyzed according to various attributes such as locations, time and subject domains.
Hungarian The word ímés is mentioned in István Székely's 1559 book entitled Chronica ez vilagnac ieles dolgairol.
They are an extension of the general collocation concept used in corpus linguistics in that they group collocations according to particular grammatical relations (e.g.
A discourse relation (also coherence relation or rhetorical relation) is a description of how two segments of discourse are logically and/or structurally connected to one another.
But, an utterance may be interpreted (contextualised) in various ways, and interdiscourse and interdiscursivity denote how certain such interpretations (and relations to other discourses) are socially more privileged than others.
This happens in the same way that 'I' can correctly be used (by different people) to refer to different people at the same time.
In speech technology, speech corpora are used, among other things, to create acoustic models (which can then be used with a speech recognition or speaker identification engine).
Perception: look, believe me Agreement: exactly, or disagreement: I'm not sure Amazement: wow Referential markers, usually conjunctions, are used to indicate the sequence, causality, and coordination between statements.
A recent focus is on the relative balance between disyllabic words and growing trisyllabic words in the Chinese language, and the comparative study of light verbs in three Chinese speech communities.
Chilton is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Linguistics and English Language at the University of Lancaster.
A corpus manager can be software installed on a personal computer or it might be provided as a web service.
She previously worked as a professor and Chair of Cultural Studies at the University of Bradford in West Yorkshire.
Searching corpora indexed by Manatee is performed by formulating queries in the Corpus Query Language (CQL).
It may provide information about the context or allow the user to search by positional attributes, such as lemma, tag, etc.
"Jezikoslovci protiv politokratije i etnonacionalizma: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [Linguists against Politocracy and Ethno-nationalism: Interview with Snježana Kordić].
In his book Gödel, Escher, Bach, Douglas Hofstadter names one of the rules in his version of propositional calculus the Switcheroo Rule, apparently in honour of an Albanian railroad engineer, name Q.
Richardson, eds.), London & New York: Longman, 1994 Télé-textes (with Elspeth Broady) (1995) Language and Masculinity (with S.
Meinhof is the author of Language Learning in the Age of Satellite Television, published by Oxford University Press.
Foucault, with his presentation and explanation of cultural shifts in awareness about ways of thinking, prompted the historian of science Theodore Porter to investigate and examine the contemporary bases for the production of knowledge.
Plato's Republic The Republic by Plato represents the first major Western work to treat the theory of poetry.
This work will be of use to those who write in Croatian and Serbian, those who are writing grammars of the language, lexicographer, translators, students and teachers of the language, Slavic linguists and general linguists.
In probability theory and statistics, the Zipf–Mandelbrot law is a discrete probability distribution.
Although originally limited to the academic discourses of post-modernism and post-structuralism, the medical gaze term is used in graduate medicine and social work.
Discourse markers can be seen as a “joint product” of grammaticalization and cooption, explaining both their grammatical behavior and their metatextual properties.
He uses the term épistémè (French pronunciation: [epistemɛ]) in his The Order of Things, in a specialized sense to mean the historical, non-temporal, a priori knowledge that grounds truth and discourses, thus representing the condition of their possibility within a particular epoch.
A thematic equative allows for all possible parts of a clause to be shifted to the start, to be the theme, so that the message can be structured in whatever way the speaker or writer wants.
There is some variation among RST relations in different applications and annotated corpora, but the core inventory formulated by Mann and Thompson (1987) is generally considered as the basis.
External links Semantic Structure Analysis — a bibliography of SIL-authored, theoretical-SSA publications at their official website, Ethnologue.com Semantic Structure Analysis — a bibliography of SIL-authored, applied-SSA publications, also at Ethnologue.com
When ending a sentence, it may be: a coordinating conjunctive to refer backwards to something previously mentioned a coordinating conjunctive dangling "so" (sometimes called trailing "so") to refer forwards to something that may be said an intensifying adverb.
He explains that "in Hiberno-English Scullion-speak [...] 'so' operates as an expression that obliterates all previous discourse and narrative, and at the same time functions as an exclamation calling for immediate attention.
Other features include the ability to search for collocations, frequency statistics as well as metadata information about the processed text.
The name is also used for Eugene Nida's technique for mapping lexical items from a source language to a receptor language in translation theory.
Origins The term originated with the German Protestant theologian Hermann Gunkel and originally was stated in the Bible.
Yael Maschler divided discourse markers into four broad categories: interpersonal, referential, structural, and cognitive.
These corpora are available in the corpus management system Sketch Engine, currently, there exist TenTen corpora for more than 30 languages (such as English TenTen corpus, Arabic TenTen corpus, Spanish TenTen corpus, Russian Tenten corpus,).
A famous example is the Rosetta Stone, whose discovery allowed the Ancient Egyptian language to begin being deciphered.
In the studies completed up to 2010, no support for contextualism has been found: stakes have no impact on evidence.
Multimodality and genre: A foundation for the systematic analysis of multimodal documents (Springer, 2008).
"Naming women’s workplace skills’." Pink Collar Blues: Work, Gender and Technology, Melbourne University Press.1993.
In 1972, Schegloff moved back to California and started working at UCLA as an assistant professor of sociology.
Romanitas, a noun signifying "Romanism" or "the Roman way" or "the Roman manner", appears only in Tertullian's de Pallio.
More recently, a meta-analytic review found CBCA criteria to be a valid technique for discriminating between memories of real self-experienced events and invented or false accounts.
RST has been designed as a framework for the principled annotation discourse, driven by theoretical considerations, but with an applied perspective.
While there is no agreed-upon delineation between the two, interactional linguistics is characterized by looking at linguistic structures and employing linguistic terminology for its description of what interactants orient to (and not only looking at e.g.
The collocation candidates in a word sketch are sorted either by their frequency or using a lexicographic association score like Dice, T-score or MI-score.
This may consist of the researcher's intuitions, or the data found in reference works such as dictionaries and grammars, or it may be statements made by previous authors in the field.
My client just wanted to avoid being called from one police office to another, so he gave the policeman five euros.
Contextualist views hold that philosophically controversial concepts, such as "meaning P", "knowing that P", "having a reason to A", and possibly even "being true" or "being right" only have meaning relative to a specified context.
There is no general agreement on the exact inventory of discourse relations, but current inventories are specific to theories or frameworks.
Furthermore, when body language and facial expressions are combined, more clues about the relationship of the speaker, their feelings towards the topic or other participant, or emotions become evident (Ducharme and Bernard 2001).
The most salient difference is that a translation memory loses the original context, while a bitext retains the original sentence order.
Argument to definition Arguments to definition are aimed to include certain objects into the extension of given definition – sometimes this might be the end of reasoning ("this is racism").
The term Sitz im Volksleben ("setting in the life of the people") was employed for the first time in 1906 and the term Sitz im Leben in 1918.
A quasi-comparable corpus includes very heterogeneous and non-parallel bilingual documents that may or may not be topic-aligned.
SKELL A free web service based on Sketch Engine and aimed at language learners and teachers is SKELL (formerly SkELL).
The humanism of the Renaissance, the rationalism of the "classics" assigned human beings a privileged place in the order of the world, but they did not think of man.
In Biblical criticism, Sitz im Leben (German pronunciation: [ˈzɪts ʔɪm ˈleːbm̩]) is a German phrase roughly translating to "setting in life".
Leech, Geoffrey / Myers, Greg / Thomas, Jenny (eds.) (1995): Spoken English on Computer: Transcription, Markup and Application.
He was a fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences 1998–99 and a Guggenheim Fellow 1998–99.
The research on dialog acts have increased since 1999, after spoken dialog systems became commercial reality.
Such biological reductionism gave power of authority to doctors when they applied their medical gaze to the body of the patient, an interaction that allowed unparalleled medical understanding of patient and illness.
A special kind of speech corpora are non-native speech databases that contain speech with a foreign accent.
Foucault's application of the analyses shows the structural parallels in the similar developments in perception that occurred in researchers' ways of seeing the subject in the human sciences.
In the book, Foucault describes épistémè: In any given culture and at any given moment, there is always only one épistémè that defines the conditions of possibility of all knowledge, whether expressed in a theory or silently invested in a practice.
"Jezik je lažni razlog za razdvajanje učenika: razgovor sa Snježanom Kordić" [Language is a false reason for separating students: Interview with Snježana Kordić].
Ultrafilosofia, which means "beyond the philosophy" appears in Leopardi's Zibaldone (Zibaldone 114–115 – June, 7th 1820).
Some sociologists were saying the study of everyday language was the essence of social order; some other kinds of discourse were said to be understood as habituations of the fundamental conversational order.
If one plots the frequency rank of words contained in a moderately sized corpus of text data versus the number of occurrences or actual frequencies, one obtains a power-law distribution, with exponent close to one (but see Powers, 1998 and Gelbukh & Sidorov, 2001).
The granularity issue has been tackled by proposing clustering methods that automatically group together similar senses of the same word.
In the Protagoras, Plato's Socrates notes that nous and episteme are prerequisites for prudence (phronesis).
Formal account A word sketch triple is a triple consisting of headword, grammatical relation, collocation (e.g.
(1995) Lexicogrammatical cartography: English systems, Tokyo, International Language Sciences Publishers Halliday M.A.K., Matthiessen C.M.I.M.
SKAD is well established within German-speaking discourse studies, though interest has recently been increasing in the English-speaking world and beyond.
History A Part-Of-Speech Tagger (POS Tagger) is a piece of software that reads text in some language and assigns parts of speech to each word (and other token), such as noun, verb, adjective, etc., although generally computational applications use more fine-grained POS tags like 'noun-plural'.
Jonah Jameson quit the Bugle upon Wilson Fisk taking it over and interfering with their investigations concerning the attack.
He left the caucus on September 21, 2017, to sit as an Independent due to his dissatisfaction with the party's leadership contest and the emphasis put by candidates on spending cuts and austerity.
After some difficulty adjusting to her new role as an Army wife, she meets "The Tribe" — the circle of Army wives (and husband) which include Denise Sherwood, Claudia Joy Holden, Pamela Moran and Roland Burton — and becomes close to them.
After leaving the acting industry, Falzon became a paramedic for St John Ambulance in Alice Springs.
In April 2016, Magrann became the head baseball coach at Coral Springs Charter School in Coral Springs, Florida.
His coach, Marcus Marinelli, recalled that despite training for only a few months, he was already defeating boxers with significantly more experience.
According to hospital officials, within weeks after the incident, they had implemented new rules meant to allow patient care staff to focus on their work and minimize disputes in patient care units.
On Jan's feisty nature, Botcher opined, "Jan's got a very big heart and a lot of compassion, but she can go up like a rocket!" Jan's powerful personality comes as a shock to her new colleagues.
Molyneux appeared alongside Meg Fraser and they play younger versions of the film's two main characters.
Dan Schoen (born December 7, 1974) is an American politician and former member of the Minnesota Senate.
After Katie Sieben announced she would not seek re-election to the Minnesota Senate, Schoen announced his intentions to run.
Sam stood by his brother Nat (Joe Naufahu) when he got involved in racial gang wars that saw his best friend get murdered.
Magrann made his Major League debut on September 7, 1989 at Cleveland Stadium against the Toronto Blue Jays.
After saying his goodbyes to Charlie, Josh left the series at the end of 2006 and set off on his travels to see cricket and culture around the world.
Early life, education and private career Sheehy was born in Hastings, Nebraska and graduated from St.
Newberger was reprimanded by a judge for writing to encourage reconsideration of a judgment (worth roughly $250,000) against a donor to Newberger.
Career After appearing in the children's television series Kelly II, Falzon was asked to audition for both Neighbours and Home and Away.
Due to such high audience reaction, the paternity was unraveled in 1999, setting off a cliffhanger that saw the two possibly reconcile in the new millennium.
John's University in Collegeville and Minneapolis Community and Technical College, where he graduated from the Paramedic program.
Character development Relationship with Donna Stephanie Tauevihi was cast as Donna Heka, a love interest for Rangi and debuted in 1997.
In 1987, he became the market general manager, a position he held until his appointment as lieutenant governor.
He received highly specialized training as a member of the elite National Medical Response Team, a unit of the US Public Health Service, trained to treat victims of industrial, nuclear or chemical accidents, or terrorist acts involving Weapons of Mass Destruction.
Harper praised Leon's portrayl of the character and said that Jade would face a challenge learning and working in the ED.
Enda Appears in the novel: Halloween (1979) by Curtis Richards Enda is a cursed ghost that is behind Michael Myers affliction.
Digital Spy's Amy West thought the couple's relationship might be "short-lived, though" when they attend the scene of a van on the edge of a ravine.
Sam got a job at the hospital as a paramedic and briefly dated Emma Franklin (Amy Usherwood) before he fell in love with Vasa Levi (Teuila Blakely).
In 2016, former premier Rachel Notley named him one of the heroes of the Fort McMurray wildfires for his efforts in helping evacuees.
Personal life Miocic works as a full-time firefighter and paramedic, becoming full-time in 2022 after many years of part-time work, in Oakwood and Valley View, Ohio.
Along with their father, the brothers set up and manage Earth Sanctuary, an ecology, culture and astronomy tourism business.
At the end of it all, Peter and Ben shake hands with Jameson saying they will face all dangers and the future together.
Fourteen million viewers watched Jude's stabbing and Burns thought it made "a harrowing end" to the character's tenure.
She was later released after spending 20 minutes in the police car in handcuffs without any charges being brought against her.
When Abyei Town was attacked and destroyed by SAF forces on May 14, 2008, the evacuation plan was implemented.
In series 28, Jeff is left stunned when past and former paramedic Tamzin Bayle (Gemma Atkinson) returns.
Emery at Ballotpedia Meet the Candidates: Eric Emery – South Dakota Public Broadcasting (August 2024 interview) AMA Ethics Talk podcast: Time-Critical Resource—Rural Emergency Medical Services (guest appearance)
She is a fierce advocate for the Air Force and she and Holden jockey for their respective branches at the highest levels of power on base.
She has difficulty dealing with Chase's commitments to Delta Force and the secrecy of his deployments because she never knows when he was going to be called away on a mission.
He joins the emergency department as a resident doctor on rotation and is introduced alongside Kim Chang (Jasmine Bayes), who he went to university with.
He's been taught to dust himself off and get on with things." During his shift, Iain helps Ruby with "a particularly difficult situation" and despite knowing that he has people who care for him, it does not deter Iain from his plan.
Theme song and opening sequence The theme song for Passions is titled "Breathe"; it was performed by Jane French and written by French and John Henry Kreitler.
In July 2022, Hofbauer was hospitalized at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles Thursday to undergo tests for an auto-immune disorder, after spending two days at Antelope Valley Hospital.
The future Peter Parker tells him that he should tell Mary Jane Watson and their son that he loves them every day.
Electoral record References External links Members of the Nova Scotia Legislative Assembly Dave Wilson's NSNDP profile
Following this, Ben expresses how proud he is of the "prime" Spider-Man despite not living in the same reality as him.
On September 13, 2017, Jackie Biskupski, the mayor of Salt Lake City, said that the internal investigation revealed Payne and his watch commander, Lt.
He said he wanted to "disconnect and clear my head" because he felt he had faced "abuse and slander in social and mainstream media" over a private member's bill he wrote.
After the groundskeeper expressed how shocked he was fifteen years ago when Michael Myers murdered Judith, he began telling Dr.
Such certifications provide designations to paramedic professionals who demonstrate the knowledge and skills essential to critical care paramedics.
It was announced following his release that Kupershtein had been serving in the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) at the time of his abduction as a combat soldier in the Nahal Brigade's 932nd Battalion.
An alternate ending saw Ali and Chris survive and contact the authorities only for Jason's body to be missing when they arrive.
He was a peace officer leader of the SWAT division, with expertise in special operations and emergency preparedness, including weapons of mass destruction.
He served three terms from 2013 to 2019 and served on the Jobs and Energy (Vice Chair), Environment and Natural Resources, Civil Law, Transportation Policy, and Public Safety Committees.
Joan and Roland have a daughter Sara Elizabeth, whose godparents are Michael and Claudia Joy Holden, and a son David.
He trialled with Everton in May 2002, and played in a friendly against Falkirk in the Alex Scott Memorial Trophy, keeping a clean sheet.
Playing the role of Iain Dean has been a pure pleasure over the past six years, and I have nothing but fine and fond memories.
The board is composed of eleven Nova Scotians from across the arts sector and is part of the province's five-point plan on arts and culture released in February 2011.
I'm never quite sure whether this is a laughing at or a laughing with kind of show; either way, I'm still laughing." Cast Main Noted guest stars In a nod to Bewitched, Bernard Fox appeared as that series' "Dr.
But to see him feature so prominently in the autumn trailer makes us wonder, is he returning more permanently?" Bleasdale reprised the role again in 2024 for Charlie's exit storyline.
The character was written off following Blakely's decision to leave the show, and Vasa and Sam both departed on 11 July 2014.
Fraser initially joined the rest of the PC caucus in its merger with the Wildrose Party to form the United Conservative Party in 2017.
He also received his Diploma as an Emergency Medical Technician at the School of Allied Health - School of Emergency Health Services at the VG Hospital, Halifax.
Jimmy and Nurse Jill search the empty building for Laurie and their missing colleagues, with Jimmy eventually finding Mrs.
After Brian Jean was elected as the official leader of the Wildrose Party, Yao decided to run in the riding of Fort McMurray-Wood Buffalo, and defeated Progressive Conservative incumbent MLA Mike Allen in the 2015 Alberta election.
Andrei Arlovski, Fabricio Werdum, Junior dos Santos, Francis Ngannou and Daniel Cormier (x2) UFC Honors Awards 2019: Fan's Choice Comeback of the Year Winner vs.
Richard Glenn Fraser (born February 13, 1972) is a Canadian politician who was an elected member to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta representing the electoral district of Calgary-South East.
Steve Frisbie is an American businessman and politician serving as a member of the Michigan House of Representatives since January 2025, representing the 44th district.
The FP-C, CCP-C, and/or Critical Care Emergency Medical Transport Program (CCEMTP) certifications are often a requirement to work as a flight paramedic in the United States.
Rita soon learns from the police that her tyres were actually slashed as practical joke, but she keeps the news to herself.
The band Scissor Sisters appeared on two February 2007 episodes and performed two songs from their Ta-Dah album: "Land of a Thousand Words" on February 8 and "I Don't Feel Like Dancin'" on February 9.
Frisbie was Calhoun County Commissioner having first taken the seat in 2011, elected from the 4th district.
Bleasdale also reprised the role for Charlie's final episode in 2024 Creation and casting The character was based on real life paramedic Clive Haddrell, who advised the script writers on the accuracy of the paramedics featured in the show.
But, how I used to look at it is that it's largely a palagi show that happens to have diverse actors in it, largely ...
Elected as a Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta MLA in 2012, Fraser was sworn into the Redford cabinet in 2013 as Minister of Public Safety.
He assisted when an emergency helicopter crashed outside the Emergency Department, and teamed up with both Charlie and Duffy keep the situation under control and to save lives.
References External links Full Biography for Steven "Steve" Hofbauer Steve Hofbauer at ballotpedia.org stevehofbauer.net Steven D.
When Donna was accused of murder, Rangi helped her through it and the two reconciled and married on the show's 2000th episode.
The film ends with the implication that Pam is killed by Tommy Jarvis, but her fate is never revealed in the series.
Stevenson said that although Iain is stunned to learn about Jan's involvement, he is prepared to "stand by her side".
Judy Seeberger is an American politician representing District 41 in the Minnesota Senate since 2023.
The character was used to explore the issue of motor neuron disease (MND) after he receives a diagnosis.
Yao was reached by Fort McMurray Today on January 5, 2021, and said he turned his phone off upon arrival in Mexico.
While the villains in the first games had detailed backstories, the Cobra Unit members were intended to have little information known about them, resulting in a significant impact among players upon their deaths.
Accounts of the incident vary, but Carmona says he spotted a driver assaulting another driver after a car accident and pulled over to help.
Salt knew she did not want to be on the show long-term as her family is based in London and in the opening episode of series 33, Sam was killed off after receiving an injury during work.
The Associated Press projected Frisbie as the winner on Election Night (when he was up by some 1,400 votes), but the Calhoun County clerk subsequently found that a computer glitch in Battle Creek overrode 2,800 ballots, causing them not to be counted.
She cited to that effect the specific hospital policy, on which the police department had agreed, that would not permit her to provide the blood sample.
Molyneux's first short film role was playing Jack Barnes in Aussie of the Year, which explores the life of a college graduate struggling to forge a career.
Josh Griffiths is a fictional character played by actor Ian Bleasdale from the BBC medical drama Casualty.
The character departed in mid-2004 before returning in a two episode stint on Christmas the same year.
Marguerite Thérèse Jauzelon (25 July 1917 – 10 February 2023) was a French teacher and volunteer paramedic during World War II.
Creation and casting After watching Australian soap operas, Neighbours and Home and Away, Caterina De Nave noticed a lack of ethnic diversity in the cast and as such, one of her goals whilst creating Shortland Street was to push new ground and create an ethically diverse cast.
Minnesota House of Representatives Newberger was elected to the Minnesota House of Representatives in 2012.
She told Emma Burns of the Daily Mirror that she was growing tired of the routine in her twelve-hour day filming for the show.
On July 5, 2018, Porter was appointed to the Executive Council of Nova Scotia as Minister of Municipal Affairs.
She is the first woman from the Central African Republic to be awarded the Florence Nightingale Medal.
Post-release activities On October 15, 2025, Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz met with Kupershtein to hear about his captivity and thank him for his actions assisting victims at the Nova festival attack.
The video depicted Kupershtein bound at his wrists and ankles, with a cord wrapped around his neck, he was recorded shouting his name at the militants and attempting to plead with them to help the wounded Israeli hostage Elkana Bohbot.
Later that day, Governor Dave Heineman held a press conference at the state capitol building to announce that he had accepted Sheehy's resignation.
Having broken up with Eddie, Donna looked forward to a future with Rangi but he had moved on and Donna rebounded with Paul Exley (Rory Williamson).
He represented the electoral district of Hants West in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly as a Liberal from 2006 until his retirement from politics in 2021.
His family held a public birthday party for Kupershtein at Hostages Square to mark his second birthday in captivity, while close friends posted tributes on social media.
Biography In 2011 Ngouadakpa became the first woman from the Central African Republic to be awarded the Florence Nightingale Medal.
He was the Republican nominee for the United States Senate in 2018, losing in a landslide to incumbent Democrat Amy Klobuchar.
Provincial career Elected in 2006, Porter was a member of the Progressive Conservatives until June 13, 2014, when he left the party to sit as an independent citing Jamie Baillie's management style as a factor (Baillie said Porter neglected his duties).
Before the 1990 season, the Indians traded for star rookie catcher Sandy Alomar Jr., effectively dashing Magrann's hopes of any significant playing time with the organization.
She returned to attend Tama's (David Wikaira-Paul) wedding before she returned to Australia with a newly released Victor.
Move to DirecTV On January 17, 2007, NBC announced that it would not renew Passions for a ninth season, in order to accommodate a planned expansion of its morning news and talk show Today to a fourth hour.
For his work with GlobalMedic, Singh was named to the 2010 Time 100 list of "The World's Most Influential People".
Fábio Maldonado, Andrei Arlovski, Fabrício Werdum, Junior dos Santos 2 and Daniel Cormier 2 Knockout of the Night (One time) vs.
So I said sure." Lincoln was already a Friday the 13th fan, and was proud to have seen every one of the films.
Member of the Legislative Assembly Role in Opposition From 2005 to 2008, while in opposition, Wilson performed the critic roles for Heritage and Culture, Tourism, Heritage Act, and Housing and Communications until August 2005, when he was named the critic for Health.
She also helped Noel when he was left homeless and was support for Big Mac when he was held hostage by Iain's unstable army colleague, Kenny.
Seeberger also advertised supporting certain tax cuts, abortion access rights, red flag laws, and new paid family and medical leave programs.
In 2012, Sniper Wolf was chosen by Konami as one of their 64 iconic characters to participate in the Konami E3 Battle event, where she lost against Metal Gear REX in the semi-final fourth round.
For a time during his tenure in the Senate, he served as the Chair of the Committee on Public Health and Welfare.
She also possesses a strong sense of smell, allowing her to identify and track her quarry by scent in a snowstorm.
In certain articles for Novaya gazeta, and comments on Radio Liberty, Podrabinek expressed concern that the use of psychiatry for political repression was reviving in Russia, in the enforced hospitalization of Larisa Arap, for instance.
He was given a late call-up to the squad for qualifiers against Macedonia and Portugal in September, but did not eventually meet up with the team as an agreement was reached that he would only be on standby.
Education Hofbauer attended Pierce College, Los Angeles Valley College, UCLA Extension, California State University, Los Angeles, and other colleges.
She is Director of the University Institute of Paramedical Training (IUMP), based at the Central African Red Cross in collaboration with the University of Bangui.
On February 21, 2021, Raica submitted his name to the Democratic Committeepersons of the 22nd legislative district for consideration to be appointed to the vacant State Representative position.
Templeton flew 24 surveillance and GPS mapping missions in order to provide geo-referenced intelligence to the UNJLC.
Initially assigned to work as a secretary, she asserted herself into a role of an ambulance driver, having learned how to drive at the age of 14.
Post-Surgeon General career In 2006, Republicans attempted to recruit Carmona to run for Congress in Arizona's 8th congressional district, but he declined.
In the subsequent hand recount of all votes, Frisbie ultimately won by a very tight margin: 79 votes.
He is The Military Envoy and represents the district of Waverley as a member of the Manitoba New Democratic Party.
He began his career securing roles in short films and in 2020, he was a contestant on the Australian reality television series Big Brother.
Rahul Singh, (born October 1970 in Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian paramedic and founder and Executive Director of GlobalMedic, a humanitarian relief organization that provides disaster relief in areas affected by natural disasters or complex emergencies.
During the 2022 Minnesota Senate election, she campaigned on supporting first responders, including investments in mental health and crime prevention.
A member of the Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party (DFL), he represented District 54 in the southeastern Twin Cities metropolitan area.
She wrote, "It genuinely felt like we were there alongside real paramedics and massive credit has to go to the four lead actors for their skill in taking their characters through this unscripted journey".
Lieutenant Governor Dave Heineman ascended to the governorship, and then appointed Sheehy to succeed him as lieutenant governor.
Between January 5 and February 14, 2005, the team completed a pediatric vaccination campaign of 3,150 children.
Jetstream Sam Samuel Rodrigues (サムエル・ホドリゲス, Samueru Hodorigesu) is a master of a Brazilian fighting technique called the "New Shadow School", derived from a similar Japanese fighting style.
She was previously head of the Association of Nurses of Midwives of the Central African Republic (ANISCA).
Specialist Jeremy Sherwood Seasons 1 – 5 Specialist Jeremy Sherwood (portrayed by Richard Bryant) was the son of Frank and Denise Sherwood.
Carmona is a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons and certified in correctional health care and in quality assurance.
Magrann wore the uniform number 76 in his brief stint with the Indians and, as of 2020, is the only Indians player to have done so.
An evacuation plan based on access to drinking water was set up in preparation for what seemed to be an imminent attack by Janjaweed forces.
James Newberger (born March 6, 1964) is an American politician who served as a member of the Minnesota House of Representatives from 2013 to 2019.
Resignation The Omaha World-Herald reported that Sheehy, who was then married, had been using his state-issued cell phone for years to make 2,000 late-night telephone calls to four different women.
Michelle has been absolutely brilliant and her arrival is set to have a huge impact on one of the show's most loved characters." Val Kildare Valentine "Val" Kildare, played by accredited actor Gary Lucy, appeared in the tenth episode of series 29, which was originally broadcast on 15 November 2014.
However, Glen later reveals that he has a glioblastoma, a malignant brain tumour, and did not want Robyn to date him out of pity.
Howarth did not play in the first group match against Poland on 10 May 2002 as Bywater started, but in the second match against Portugal he was chosen ahead of Evans in a 1–0 victory over Portugal on 12 May.
Grace has a sleepover at Carmel's house, but when Carmel injures her leg on a trampoline, Grace runs home to get Connie, but finds her and Jacob together.
Noel is later placed at the centre of a mugging, where he is attacked by Mercedes Christie (Hannah Spearritt).
26 2018 Saving Tsunami Victims - First Responders to the Tsunami in Indonesia Sudan Arc Seminar - SPEAR field report on Abyei Survey
Members of these groups are nationally recognized specialists whose combined expertise encompasses the breadth of clinical knowledge in the specialty area.
In 1930, her father was appointed deputy director of the Agence des sucreries coloniales to Réunion's capital, Saint-Denis.
Prentiss (born October 6, 1964) is an American politician and nationally registered paramedic from Lebanon, New Hampshire.
In January 2008, DirecTV reduced the show's schedule to three episodes per week, airing Monday through Wednesday.
In Oran, she was assigned to the 431st Colonial Medical Battalion in the 3rd Pickup Company, made up of 24 Malagasy and Réunionese paramedics.
The series was pre-recorded and Molyneux revealed that, upon his departure from the house, he lost his job.
Cynthia figures that the man attacking her is really after her adopted daughter, and she exclaims, "No, not my baby!" Cynthia Strode dies soon after Michael breaks her neck.
Molyneux also did not receive as much airtime as other contestants, which he addressed on social media.
Ruby is billed as a "conscientious and ambitious" paramedic who has an "idealistic" view of the world.
Donna discovered Rangi was cheating on her but had decided to stay with her only to be murdered by his mistress and her husband.
For his fourth title defense, Miocic faced UFC Light Heavyweight Champion Daniel Cormier on July 7, 2018, in the main event at UFC 226.
Alves' dead body; he accidentally slips on her blood, hitting his head and leaving himself unconscious.
The character and Mantock's casting was announced on 6 July 2011, alongside that of Lloyd Asike (Michael Obiora).
After the bite of an irradiated spider mutates him into an arachnid monstrosity, Patton infects Ted with his offspring while declaring he taught him that "With great power comes a great appetite".
Her reappearance in Iain's life leads him to accept a job with the Helicopter Emergency Medical Service (HEMS).
Electoral history 2023 general election 2019 general election 2015 general election == References ==
Prior to holding elected office, Raica was assistant chief paramedic with the Chicago Fire Department.
The actress thought that her character would not suit a relationship as she would struggle to relax.
Tracy appealed his demotion, arguing it amounted to "excessive discipline," but the Salt Lake City's Civil Service Commission upheld it.
The two decided to have children but Donna proved infertile and Rangi had to take out a loan to fund IVF.
Main characters A Matthew Afolami Matthew Afolami, portrayed by Osi Okerafor, first appears in the thirty-fifth series, in an episode originally broadcast on 29 May 2021.
She has also served as a member of the Lebanon City Council since 2009 and served as mayor from 2017 to 2019.
He also appeared on the American Medical Association’s Ethics Talk podcast to discuss rural EMS challenges and the role of policy in supporting services.
In Metal Gear Solid 4, the original Mantis appears after Screaming Mantis's defeat, attempting to "read your mind" as before, but is unable to do so due to the advanced systems.
His kicking was excellent and he did everything else he had to do without a problem." Due to the good form of Fettis, Howarth finished the season with only two appearances.
Frisbie was a delegate to the 2020 Republican National Convention, where he voted to nominate Donald Trump for president.
Early and personal life Falzon was born in Melbourne, and he and his two brothers grew up on the Mornington Peninsula.
This certification is designed for experienced paramedics who have demonstrated advanced knowledge of critical care medicine.
The methods used by AMP are consistent with professional and technical guidelines detailed in the Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing (1999) by the American Educational Research Association, the American Psychological Association and the National Council on Measurement in Education.
She first appears in the thirty-fifth episode of the thirty-second series, first broadcast on 19 May 2018.
She made the decision to live in a flat rather than stay in a hotel as many cast members opt to do, and she later began sharing a flat with co-star George Rainsford, who portrays Ethan Hardy.
Prior to his abduction, he financially supported his mother, Julie, his father, Tal, and his four younger siblings, by working various jobs and volunteering with the Yedidim emergency assistance organization.
Political leaders from both parties called for Schoen to resign, including Governor Mark Dayton, Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party Chairman Ken Martin, Senate Majority Leader Paul Gazelka, and Senate Minority Leader Tom Bakk.
At the end of the day, Jan evaluates Ruby's position on the team and considers whether she is suited to working in Holby.
Hofbauer was the last directly elected mayor of Palmdale, California before the city changed its process to a rotating system.
After he was cast as the lead in a school production of Macbeth when he was ten years old, Falzon realised that he wanted to become an actor.
From 2015 to 2021, Emery served on the National Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council (NEMSAC), where he advised the U.S.
She was not recognized for her service in the war until 2002, when she was awarded a Knight of the Legion of Honour by a member of the French Resistance from Réunion, Jean Joly.
On 26 August 1999, two days after making his fifth successive appearance, Howarth signed a three-year professional contract with York.
Naufahu was surprised he won the role due to his inexperience and how he believed he knew, "nothing about acting ...
Deputy Josh Portrayed by Andrew Bloch Appears in: Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday Status: Deceased Died in: Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday Deputy Josh is a police officer, and had a wife, Edna.
In a nightmare world which he could seemingly manipulate at will, he used his supernatural powers to slaughter his teenage victims as they slept.
Personal life Magrann's father, also named Thomas, was of Irish descent and met Magrann's mother, Joanne, while he was studying to enter the Catholic priesthood and she was a church organist.
David Pankratz is a Canadian politician, who was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba in the 2023 Manitoba general election.
Both shows are set in the same hospital and the crossover sees the hospital experience a power outage due to a cyberattack.
On 1 April 2014, it was announced that Walkinshaw had left the show and that he would be reprising the role in the show's spin-off series, Holby City.
Outside of his legislative duties, he continues to work in emergency medical services administration, focusing on improving rural health access and supporting tribal EMS systems.
Henry Williams Professor Henry Williams, played by Tom Chadbon, first appeared on 13 September 2008, at the beginning of series 23.
Raica defeated Democratic incumbent LeRoy Lemke in the 1986 general election in a racially-charged campaign targeting Reagan Democrats on the issues of crime and taxes.
However the audience related well to the couple and when producers decided to make the two sleep again, there were no complaints from fans as were expected.
Wilson stepped down as the MLA for Sackville-Cobequid on November 16, 2018 stating, "It's just time for me to look at other things".
In the South Dakota Legislature, Emery has concentrated on rural health initiatives, EMS system sustainability, tribal public health policy, and legislation to establish EMS as an essential service in the state.
Surgeon General Nomination President Bush nominated Carmona to become the 17th Surgeon General of the United States in March 2002.
Sometime later, now viewed as a hero at school, a newly confident Finney sits next to his crush in class and says she can call him Finn.
Andy then reminds Benoit of the non-exclusive patent waiver, which had been Benoit's idea in the first place.
Accolades References External links Official website Dumb Money at IMDb Dumb Money at Rotten Tomatoes Dumb Money at History vs Hollywood
It stars Haruka Ayase and Daigo Yamamoto as a couple who welcomes an infant humanoid robot (Kuwaki Rimu), following the passing of their son.
Eubank plays with our minds, and Nic's, for a while." Rapold judges that "the story evolves into a kind of poor man's X-Men", though "the grandiosity of the film's setups partly fits in with the guys' sense of righteous-geek drama, and you wouldn't be surprised to see Mr.
KK corners Makaio and has him create a diversion in order to distract Vincent, before killing him for his betrayal.
Music The score for the film was composed by Patrick Doyle, performed by the Hollywood Studio Symphony and conducted by James Shearman.
Plot When an undercover detective is shot dead while investigating a string of Porsche 911 thefts, Lieutenant Vincent Bracey assigns 22-year-old San Diego officer Benjamin "Benjy" Taylor to infiltrate a Porsche garage suspected to be a front for the grand theft auto scheme.
Distribution Marketing On March 18, 2014, a teaser poster and some photos from the film were released, followed by the first official trailer next day.
Awards Remakes At the end of January 2021 it was announced that the film will have 2 remakes made in France by StudioCanal and Spain by YouthPlanet Films.
Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune gave the film 1.5 stars out of 4 and called it a "routine shocker" that "is notable only for indicating the kind of junk roles that talented actresses are forced to play in the movies".
from Rediff.com gave the film 1.5 stars out of 5, praising Irrfan Khan's performance, while criticizing the climax and the overall execution.
Entertainment Weekly gave the film a "B" rating, saying, "Hard science fiction meets tender hearts in a slow-burn, twist-filled thriller...
Critical response The Conversation has a 94% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 139 reviews, with an average rating of 9/10.
The film will have its world premiere at the main competition of the 2026 Cannes Film Festival in May 2026, where it was nominated for the Palme d'Or.
Desperate not to lose his home and after finding out that his wife is pregnant, he decides to become a YouTuber, for which he will need the help of his two misunderstood children.
Release Tow had its world premiere at the 2025 Tribeca Festival on June 7 at the Spotlight Narrative section.
Cast See also List of Doraemon films References External links Doraemon The Movie 25th page (in Japanese) Doraemon: Nobita's Three Visionary Swordsmen at IMDb Doraemon: Nobita's Three Visionary Swordsmen (film) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Clark felt that college and high school students had not been depicted with "any sense of reality" in American film, and that he intended to capture the "astuteness" of young adults: "College students — even in 1974 — are astute people.
Cast Cliff Potts as Joe Dolan Walter Pidgeon as Thomas Carmichael Donna Mills as Caroline Carmichael Mike Farrell as James Carmichael Geraldine Page as Mrs.
Plot A young woman is the first person to be revived from cryogenic suspension, but someone wants to ensure that her resurrection is brief.
Variety called the film "a bloody, senseless kill-for-kicks feature, [that] exploits unnecessary violence in a university sorority house operated by an implausibly alcoholic ex-hoofer.
Taran Adarsh from Bollywood Hungama gave the film 2.5 stars out of 5, similarly pointing out that "what follows after a point bears no resemblance to that film (Phone Booth)", and also found it similar to A Wednesday in spite of their different storylines.
Critical response On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 29% of 76 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 4.4/10.
Reaching an alternate extraction point at an abandoned plaza, the group barely manages to escape, but many troops sent to cover the landing zone, including Bogdan, are killed.
He tries escaping the hospital, but is confronted by an apparition of Courtney in a stairwell before being killed by the entity.
Hackman's character Edward Lyle in Enemy of the State closely resembles Caul: he dons the same translucent raincoat, and his workshop is nearly identical to Caul's.
Aseem Mishra, who worked in Bajrangi Bhaijaan (2015), was initially chosen as the film's cinematographer, but due to his inavailability, was replaced by P.
The film is produced by Shane Boris, Diane Becker, and filmmaking duo Daniel Kwan and Jonathan Wang.
Legacy Quentin Tarantino credited the novelization of the film by screenwriter Thomas Rickman as getting him interested in writing.
In another email, the Subject writes that the other units are harming the friends to whom he recommended the Praemus service.
[sic] wouldn't have been possible soon after the interview, since Jobs sold NeXT to Apple six months later and became Apple CEO a year after that." Roger Ebert gave it three stars and noted that "it's raw material for a film, in the form of Jobs speaking in close-up.
Bounty hunter Dash MacKenzie is looking for a man who bought a SIM, and uncovers a game played by corporation heads to manipulate society.
Virtual Weapon (Italian: Potenza virtuale, also known as Cyberflic) is a 1997 Italian comedy-science fiction film, directed by Antonio Margheriti.
No Man's Land is a 1987 American crime drama film directed by Peter Werner, written by Dick Wolf, and starring Charlie Sheen, D.
Avatar (Chinese: 流放化身) is a 2004 English-language Singaporean science fiction action film directed by Kuo Jian Hong and written by Christopher Hatton.
The following month, Shailene Woodley, Anthony Ramos, Vincent D'Onofrio, Dane DeHaan, Myha'la Herrold, America Ferrera, Rushi Kota, Nick Offerman, and Talia Ryder joined the cast.
Vincent explains to Kalpana that KK is connected to the recent murder of a wealthy industrialist and warns her to step aside.
Plot Login is a Hindi feature film about three different individuals and how the Internet and social networking sites changed their lives.
talks the Dancekings into a bank robbery (SOS has just expanded into the banking business) that does not work out quite as planned.
Bear's interrogation reveals the dealer as Vikram Chandra, head of Beta Tower and an associate of Othman.
The stakes rise when an attempt by Kogan to kill Lucas results in the deaths of another moonshine driver, Jed Moultrie, and Treasury Agent Mike Williams mistaken for him and one of Barrett's men.
Allison then lures Protector 1 inside, where it gets stuck, unable to get traction on the spilled paint and thinners.
Music The musical score for Pulse was composed by Jay Ferguson, who also composed "Pictures of You" from the soundtrack to The Terminator, and the film score to A Nightmare on Elm Street 5: The Dream Child.
Agents Bobby and Fit arrive to save Othman who is ejected as Fit lands the plane with an Override Mode similar to I.R.I.S.'s.
Casting Olivia Hussey, who had previously garnered international fame for her role as Juliet in Romeo and Juliet (1968), signed on to appear in the film after being told by a psychic that she would "make a film in Canada that would earn a great deal of money".
And I said to John when it was about to open, 'Why did you cast them?' And he said, 'That was what the studio insisted on'.
Dhruva then manipulates Siddharth into killing his henchman Abbas, gathers proof, and confronts the corrupt CM.
The Subject then responds again saying that he tried to remove the unit, but he got badly burned when he touched the glowing Praemus logo.
It stars Mason Thames as Finney, a teenage boy abducted by a serial child killer known colloquially as the Grabber (Ethan Hawke).
When Jobs gave this interview in 1995, he was still "two years away from retaking the Chief Executive role at Apple and beginning a run that would transform the Cupertino, Calif.-based Mac maker from loser to leader in the digital economy.
On the other hand, the media differed over the handling of ideas, often singling out the film's supernatural elements for further scrutiny, with one review from Variety claiming its emphasis undermined tension-building in the story.
The robots are not autonomous or intelligent, and controlled either by radio or by sound, for which purpose Ripple uses a saxophone.
The song "Pareshanura" was shot at the Krabi Islands in Thailand, which featured Ram Charan and Rakul Preet Singh.
As Paul thinks Edmée is his mother, Hubert must play the role of a man courting Edmée and Didier, the son of Edmée and Hubert plays the role of a student living with the family.
Less cynical than before, Adam makes a determined effort to show Jessie that not all journalists are out for the cheap sensation.
Designing and building the Biollante props proved problematic, as traditional suitmation techniques made realizing the requested design of the creature's first form difficult, and the resulting cumbersome model for Biollante's final form was met with disbelief from the special effects team.
The idea originated from a public story-writing contest, and set a trend common to all Heisei era movies, in which Godzilla faces off against opponents capable of metamorphosing into new, progressively more powerful forms.
Romero's Dawn of the Dead (1978)—also set in a shopping mall—which he classifies as an "anti-capitalist parable for the Jimmy Carter years," suggesting that Chopping Mall functions in a similar way as a comment on consumption during the Reagan Era.
Background The original interview that Jobs gave to Cringely for Triumph of the Nerds lasted about 70 minutes.
Creature designer Shinji Nishikawa originally designed Biollante's head as much more flowerlike, with four petal-like jaws, though the film's producers insisted on a more reptilian head.
One was destroyed in the fire scene, one was taken to a museum, and the third was used as the camera car, with the roof removed.
The stunt coordinator was Carey Loftin, with a stunt team of Hollywood's most accomplished stunt drivers, Ray Austin, Neil Castes Sr., Robert Hoy, and Dale Van Sickel.
Reception Critical response On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 89% of 9 critics' reviews are positive.
First under control, the situation gradually deteriorates especially when Paul's actions become a threat to Hubert's plan to marry his son to the daughter of Crepin-Jaujard, one of his business partners.
Picker, the head of Paramount Pictures at the time, was impressed by the film and intended to position it as a wide release, but changes in studio management curtailed this and it was only released theatrically in Texas and Oklahoma, while it went straight to video elsewhere.
O'Neill Vera Miles as Marcia Carmichael Reception References External links Live Again, Die Again at IMDb Live Again, Die Again at the TCM Movie Database (archived version)
Sheep in the Box (Japanese: 箱の中の羊) is an upcoming Japanese science fiction drama film written, edited and directed by Hirokazu Kore-eda.
Dialing for Dingbats is a 1989 romantic comedy directed by Peter Slodczyk and distributed by Troma Entertainment.
Plot Randy, a lonely and shy man, meets a woman through a party line but communication problems complicate their date.
Finally the workers gain control over the robots with their own remote control device, which they had covertly assembled before, making necessary measurements on the robot assembling factory and researching the Ripple's prototype robot "Micron", whom he left damaged at his home.
Kaiser also says that he served as a technical consultant on the film, though he was not listed in the credits.
The project is produced by Cocktail Pictures, and stars Himanshu Bhatt, Radhika Roy, Akkash Basnet, Rashmi Gautam, Nandini Rai, Siddarth Chopra, KK Binojee.
Franchise 1987 video game A 1987 video game based on the 1986 film of the same name was published and developed by Ocean Software for ZX Spectrum, Commodore 64 and Amstrad CPC.
Royalty Free: The Music of Kevin MacLeod is a 2020 American documentary film about the composer Kevin MacLeod.
Tow is a 2025 American drama film directed by Stephanie Laing, written by Jonathan Keasey and Brant Boivin, and starring Rose Byrne, Dominic Sessa, Demi Lovato, Ariana DeBose, Octavia Spencer, Simon Rex, and Elsie Fisher.
The story of the film revolves around an antique box purchased by the female protagonist, after which the couple face paranormal activities.
The film, starring Emraan Hashmi and Nikita Dutta in the lead role, is a remake of Jay's 2017 Malayalam film Ezra.
Mitchell later recalls, "I think we both felt a pretty fair amount of pressure when we started shooting.
During the restaurant scene, Pitt tried to ad-lib a line as he wanted to get a Screen Actors Guild (SAG) card, but the assistant director threatened to fire him if he tried again.
In reality, there was no such special model, and in any event, 1955 was not the 50th anniversary of Oldsmobile.
Remakes Login was remade into Telugu as Ladies & Gentlemen, which was well received by both the audience and critics.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 81% of 52 critics' reviews are positive.
Once this has been accomplished, it travels along the power lines to the next house, and the terror restarts.
Lovia Gyarke of The Hollywood Reporter also gave the film a positive review and wrote, "Still, in its modest way, Tow sends a powerful message about how many of us have more in common with a person sleeping in a car than we do the billionaires we've been conditioned to admire".
On 2 October 2019, WAU Animation had officially released the official theatrical poster of the film, which also revealed the release date for Malaysian cinemas.
Hibernatus is a 1969 French-Italian comedy film directed by Édouard Molinaro and written by Jean Bernard-Luc.
Plot Rolling Stone reporter Adam Lawrence is sent from New York to Los Angeles to write an article about Joe McKenzie, a businessman arrested for dealing drugs.
Cast Himanshu Bhatt as Mrityunjay Viswa karma Radhika Roy as Vandana Akkash Basnet as Debasish Mondal Rashmi Gautam as Vrutika Nandini Rai as Divya KK Binojee as Vishaal Siddharth Chopra as Johnny Pavani Reddy as Seema Soundtrack Critical reception Login was rated 3 stars by The Times of India.
Interviewees References External links The AI Doc: Or How I Became an Apocaloptimist at IMDb The AI Doc: Or How I Became an Apocaloptimist at Rotten Tomatoes The AI Doc: Or How I Became an Apocaloptimist at Metacritic
Makaio had sent KK to the industrialist's office in the name of retrieving his case files, but is actually a trap set by Vincent who had to have someone framed for the murder.
The AI Doc: Or How I Became an Apocaloptimist is a 2026 American documentary film directed by Daniel Roher and Charlie Tyrell.
KK knocks Vincent and acquires the pen drive containing the footage of the assassination and plants it on Vasu, who has been captured by Catherine, and silently escapes.
It grossed over RM30 million in Malaysia, making it the highest-grossing Malaysian animated film of all time.
Charlie informs his men that they and their families will be executed if they fail to retrieve Jamie.
Home media The film was released on June 9, 2009, in the United States in both standard DVD format and Blu-ray.
The original script was almost irresponsible, with things like battleships getting blown up...the way it was, Dreadnought would have cost $100 million-plus to make.
After a kidnapping and a pursuit, the authorities reluctantly agree, but impose, for the sake of Paul's mental health, that his environment be the same as in 1905.
Unfortunately, she then sells the patent rights to the emagi to Francis Benoit, who plans to sell the emagi at $999 a piece and reap a huge profit.
They stall and kill several mercenaries, but Johnny is killed by a sniper while trying to signal the police and Ruby is mortally wounded while aiding Vance's escape.
Reception The film was considered "the first serious examination of the world of dingbats on the phone" by the Orlando Sentinel.
Shankar also denied the charges while accusing Phone Booth itself of being a copy of Liberty Stands Still.
In a 2011 program Vang said that Hmong actors were treated unfairly on the set, and that Eastwood did not give tips on how to build the characters.
His name is a reference to the astronauts in the original Planet of the Apes David Oyelowo as Steven Jacobs, Will's supervisor at Gen-Sys.
Bracey wants Benjy to obtain evidence that millionaire playboy Ted Varrick is the mastermind behind the thefts and the murder of the detective.
He gets hired at LaHonda Research Institute, where Francis Benoit assigns him to design the PC99, a $99 PC.
Release Hello Friend was released as an extra on the first series DVD of The IT Crowd, a television sitcom also directed and written by Linehan.
Home media The film was released on January 7, 2020, by Universal Pictures Home Entertainment on DVD, Blu-ray and Digital HD.
The same cortege of mourners bring their own back home as when a local boy was taken out by Kogan's men early in the conflict.
Enemy of the State According to film critic Kim Newman, the 1998 film Enemy of the State, which also stars Gene Hackman as co-protagonist, could be construed as a "continuation of The Conversation".
Yet there is no possibility for representing the fact that the Hmong were veterans too." An individual established a blog, eastwoodmovie-hmong.com, documenting what the author believed to be cultural inaccuracies of the film's depiction of the Hmong.
References External links Login at IMDb Official trailer on YouTube Maa ki aankh song-Censor objected song on YouTube Login-Behki Hui song on YouTube
Critical response On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 26% of 72 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 4.20/10.
After attempting to test the drug on a bonobo named Koba, Franklin accidentally becomes exposed to ALZ-113 and becomes ill.
Finney uses the byproducts from his previous escape attempts to trap the Grabber in a pit he has dug, beats him with the receiver, and breaks his neck with the phone cord as his past victims taunt him.
After hitching a ride with an old woman, Nic and Haley hijack an 18-wheeler truck to find a way around the seemingly endless canyon that extends around the facility and surrounding area.
At the same time, he steadfastly resists the attentions of the belle of the mountain girls, innocent Roxanna Ledbetter, who has a crush on him and fears for his life.
The dragon overhears it and attacks Nobitanian with his fire, but he protects himself with his sword.
Edouard Crépin-Jaujard References External links Hibernatus at IMDb Movie trailer Hibernatus on YouTube
Cast Terence Hill as Skims Marvin Hagler as Mike Giselle Blondet as Chelo Jennifer Martinez as Lily Tommy Lane as Shepard Richard Liberty as Captain Holmes References External links Virtual Weapon at IMDb
Busey claimed in later interviews that Seagal sexually harassed Eleniak on set, but she has denied that Seagal ever acted inappropriately with her during casting or filming.
The film premiered at the 2025 Tribeca Festival on June 7, 2025, and it was released in the United States on March 20, 2026.
Alisa, whose relationship with Andy has been growing steadily, helps improve the emagi's looks, which allows the team to have their callback with an executive.
It is also revealed that Chengalarayudu is still alive, saved by Dhruva and his gang and the public funeral held was for Gautham.
Lucinda, the local mechanic specializing in Yugos (driven by every resident in town) informs Rash that the car Mona was driving had been tampered with in multiple ways.
In October 2024, Focus Features acquired worldwide rights to the film, with its parent Universal Pictures handling international distribution.
Plot In 2019, nearly everyone is identified by an implanted microchip and connected to the cybernet.
The film documents the life of Kevin MacLeod and how he became one of the most-heard composers in the world, with his work ending up in millions of videos and thousands of films.
In April 2022, Craig Gillespie signed on as director, with the intention of filming to start later that year around summer or fall.
According to Pendleton, the role Guttenberg ended up playing "...was a person who could not relate to other human beings, so he poured all that into the creation of the robot.
American singer-songwriter Bruce Springsteen stated during a 1978 live performance that he had used the film's name for the opening track to his 1975 breakthrough album, Born to Run, having been inspired by the theatrical poster for the film, despite not actually seeing the movie.
Godzilla is only moderately affected, but Biollante, having evolved into a more powerful form, arrives to engage Godzilla in battle once again.
When he gets up, he finds himself in the forest, and one of the swordsmen, namely Sunemith (Suneo), makes him his servant.
Release The film was released in Latin American territory on December 16, 2022, on Amazon Prime Video, and it premiered internationally on January 10, 2023.
Music The film's score was written by Nima Fakhrara who designed experimental musical instruments to construct the resonant soundscapes.
On the other hand, princess Shizukaru (Shizuka) disagrees with her father's idea to marry the person who will defeat Emperor Odrome.
On 31 August 2020, in celebration of the country's 63rd Independence Day, an official music video of the song is released, which is dedicated to all frontliners across Malaysia.
The film features an ensemble cast that includes Paul Dano, Pete Davidson, Vincent D'Onofrio, America Ferrera, Nick Offerman, Anthony Ramos, Sebastian Stan, Shailene Woodley, and Seth Rogen.
The film's title Kadaram Kondan and first look poster were revealed on 6 November, the eve of Kamal's birthday.
Loss of Sensation, alternatively titled Robot of Jim Ripple (Russian: «Гибель сенсации» («Робот Джима Рипль»)) is a 1935 Soviet science fiction sound film directed by Alexandr Andriyevsky.
It grossed a domestic total of $40.7 million, ranking it 21st for 1986 in the United States; it performed slightly better than other hits of that year, such as Pretty in Pink, The Fly, Three Amigos, Little Shop Of Horrors, and About Last Night.
The film is based on the 1929 Ukrainian novel Iron Riot (also known as Robots are coming) by Volodimir Vladko.
After shooting the actors playing humans interacting with others wearing the motion capture suits, a clean plate was shot with actors for extra reference.
Robert Koehler of Variety describes it as Jobs at "40, and with an outlook of observing Apple from afar (he had been booted out of the company by Sculley a decade prior and had subsequently founded NeXT)." He is thus "able to bring a perspective he couldn't have provided at a younger age.
Sen informed Cringely that he found this copy and discussed the possibility of releasing it as an independent film.
The Subject gets an email back saying that this is the first time the Praemus system has done this, and that he should try turning the computer off and on again.
During the filming of the final scene, Charlie Sheen was knocked unconscious when a squib that hardened overnight detonated at the wrong time.
Jordan Calloway as Matt Monroe, a young man whom Quinn meets at the phone store and team up to defeat Ozhin.
He disables the mercenary's radio jammer with a trike kept in the mall and then kills Dead Eyes and the sniper with a gun Vance had hidden in his car.
It has a colorful VHS-era kitsch and an ungodly amount of earnest but bad jokes to the point it becomes surrealistic.
Reception Nikhat Kazmi of The Times of India gave the film 3 stars out of 5 stars, noting "all the action transpiring around the phone booth" to be the only similarity with Phone Booth.
Only if there was some surprise element to this mundane horror drama." Shubham Dwivedi of Pinkvilla gave the film 2 stars out of 5 and wrote," Dybbuk is an unenthusiastic horror tale that mends in its own mediocrity without even making an effort to rise above it.
Meanwhile, Rash breaks into the Dearly's, finding that Mona's and Jeff's car keys had been switched.
Tanaka handed the five finalist entries to director Kazuki Ōmori, despite the two's initially hostile relationship; the latter had previously held Tanaka responsible for the decline in the Godzilla series' quality during the 1970s.
In the United States and Canada, Dumb Money was released alongside A Haunting in Venice and made $229,947 from eight theaters in its opening weekend.
The house phone rings, and sorority sister Jess Bradford answers, discovering an obscene call from a previously known caller nicknamed "The Moaner".
Golding wrote the screenplay under the working titles of House, Tract and Currents in 1981 but couldn't get it made until Columbia eventually took it on seven years later.
With her ex-husband stranded in another country, she is faced with the reality that she has to be a mother without the help of apps or the internet.
References External links Review at Beyondhollywood.com via Archive.org Cyber Wars at IMDb Cyber Wars at Rotten Tomatoes
Critical response Reviewers praised Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey's performances as the film's villains.
Just when he is about to receive that long-awaited promotion, a solar storm leaves the entire world without internet, indefinitely.
Phil tells Rash he spotted Bobby near the Dearly residence on the night before the accident, claiming that he did not say this earlier because Rash and Bobby will soon be family.
While the Subject is in the hospital, Praemus sends an email to the Subject's wife apologizing for the heart attack.
Louisa Schein, author of Hmong Actors Making History Part 2: Meet the Gran Torino Family, said before the end of production that "some of the lines actors ad-libbed in Hmong on camera will be tricky to translate back for subtitles." Schenk had input from Hmong people when writing the script.
Krill activates the fire suppression system to murder the prisoners with water and to draw out Ryback through an ambush, who will likely attempt a rescue.
Perfect is a 1985 American romantic drama film directed by James Bridges and distributed by Columbia Pictures.
Paul Golding got the idea for Pulse from two unrelated events with the first being when the cinematographer Caleb Deschanel spent the night in his house and told him that at night he had been listening to "the sounds of the house ...
Ayumu Nakajima as an engineer Kimiko Yo as Nobuyo Nishimura Min Tanaka as Akio Yamagata Release In late 2025, Neon acquired the film's rights for the for U.S., U.K.
Synopsis Victoria, a mother addicted to the internet and work, is completely disconnected from her two teenage children, Clara and Julián.
It grossed $4.2 million during its opening weekend and $12.9 million worldwide, against a budget of $20 million.
Synopsis Youtopia is the story of a young woman who decides to sell her virginity to pay the debts of her mother, and of the man who decides to buy it.
Cast Controversy The film was initially rumored to be a remake of the American film Phone Booth, which the producer Sohail Maklai denied.
Synopsis Rómulo is a father of a family with little sympathy for technology who is fired by his new boss, a young millennial.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 89% of 44 critics' reviews are positive.
In 1995, it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Rise of the Planet of the Apes first entered development in 2006 when Jaffa and Silver wrote a spec script and sold it to 20th Century Fox, the producers and distributors of the original film series.
Cast Emraan Hashmi as Samuel "Sam" Isaac, an Indian Christian from Mumbai working as an executive at a nuclear waste disposal company in Mauritius.
The film deals with the digital audio revolution and the question of its relationship to technological unemployment.
Live Again, Die Again is a 1974 American made-for-television science fiction thriller film starring Cliff Potts, Walter Pidgeon, Donna Mills, Mike Farrell, Geraldine Page and Vera Miles.
Youtuber Dad (Spanish: Papá Youtuber) is a 2019 comedy film directed by Fernando Villarán and written by Villarán and Gonzalo Ladines.
Cast Genevieve O'Reilly as Dash MacKenzie Joan Chen as Madame Ong David Warner as Joseph Lau Wang Luoyong as Officer Victor Huang William Sanderson as Riley Lim Kay Siu as Julius Kumar as Zai Richard Low as Uncle Ban Michael de Mesa as Davinder Sandhu Gerald Chew as Edward Chan T.
A retrospective very negative review states that "This film couldn’t have been made in any other time than the late 80s, and not just for the snapshot of the bygone pre-internet dating scene mechanisms.
Charlie finds Jamie in the mall, but Jamie shocks him with a taser and Eddie shoots Charlie in the head with Vance's pistol, killing him.
The couple then seeks the help of a rabbi to unravel its mystery and in order to survive the ordeal before their child is born.
According to the DVD commentary, Number 5 was the most expensive part of the film, requiring several different versions to be made for different sequences.
On Metacritic it has a weighted average score of 46% based on reviews from 13 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
Security is a 2017 American action thriller film directed by Alain DesRochers and written by Tony Mosher and John Sullivan.
Her long-suffering husband Phil and son Jeff, show no grief when learning of Mona's death, an abusive, belligerent heavy drinker, loved by none.
'B' Shiva Rose as Torso Chandra West as Robin Rob Benedict as Willy Heather Paige Kent as Claudia Goss John Rothman as Ben Reggie Lee as Suit Reception Box office The film's opening Weekend Gross was $2,535 in USA (30 June 2002).
While the men set up the elevator as a booby trap, the killbots ambush the women and ignite Suzie by shooting her gasoline can, burning her alive.
Trying to prevent the hostilities Ripple tries to stop the robots with a saxophone, but he is unsuccessful and is killed.
Music The soundtrack album and background score was composed by Hiphop Tamizha marking their debut in Telugu.
Countdown is a 2019 American supernatural horror film directed and written by Justin Dec, and starring Elizabeth Lail, Jordan Calloway, Talitha Bateman, Tichina Arnold, P.J.
Due to the amount of violence and profanity in the script, Derrickson carefully broached the subject to Thames, McGraw, and their parents in preparation for scenes.
According to Frank Mills, the son-in-law of owner Ted Widgren, the producers selected it because they liked "the antique look inside." Eastwood asked Widgren to act as an extra in the barber shop scene.
Plot Park Plaza Mall has just installed a state-of-the-art security system, including shutters across all exits and three high-tech robots programmed to disable and apprehend thieves using tasers and tranquilizer guns.
Off-Lined (Spanish: Desconectados) is a 2022 Chilean-American comedy film directed by Diego Rougier and written by Rougier, Diego Ayala & Rodrigo Vergara Tampe.
Nobitanian and Odrome start fighting each other but Nobitanian nearly gets defeated but is saved by Shizukaru using the Big Light and killing Odrome.
Gore makes him drive to the police station, but just as they arrive, Gore realizes it is now Sunday, so rather than violate the Sabbath, he lets W.W.
It was Steven's idea to fit the Pearl Harbor Memorial into the film, because all these incredible ships would be there—a spectacular sight." Director Andrew Davis had previously made Above the Law with Steven Seagal.
The Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) provides information to investors about what companies are doing to mitigate the risks of climate change, as well as be transparent about the way in which they are governed.
Retail exposures are usually not managed by the bank on an individual basis for risk rating purposes, but as groups of exposures with similar risk characteristics.
It functions under the Department of Revenue in the Union Ministry of Finance and is concerned with the collection and administration of, as well as enforcement and prosecution of cases related to, the various direct taxes accruing to the Union Government.
For an exposure to qualify under this category, the return of the funds invested on the equities can be only realized through their sale or by liquidation of the issuer of these equities.
The Korea Financial Investment Association (KOFIA; Korean: 금융투자협회; RR: Geumnyung Tuja Hyeophoe) is a non-profit, self-regulatory organization (SRO) in South Korea, founded under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act.
For this reason investment banks generally concentrate on having a retail sales team for financial products consisting exclusively of Tier 2 advisers.
After the Taliban regained control of the country in August 2021, FinTRACA's access to international financial intelligence data was removed.
The commission has also been tasked with new responsibilities including promoting public understanding of the financial system and its products, policing the perimeter of regulated activity, reducing financial crime and preventing market abuse.
From November 1, 2001, to March 9, 2004, it was called Financial Monitoring Committee (Комитет по финансовому мониторингу).
By operating the Korea Institute of Financial Investment (KIFIN), KOFIA cultivates industry professionals.
The aim should be increasing German food consumption, increasingly paid for by Germany’s own exports.
Mrs Hatton was a former financial regulator in Jersey, and is Fellow of the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies and a Freeman of the Worshipful Company of International Bankers.
Cornering the market In cornering the market, the manipulators buy a sufficiently large amount of an asset, often a commodity, so they can control the price creating in effect a monopoly.
At its meeting on 13 and 14 March 2008, the European Council called for swift improvements to the functioning of the Committees of Supervisors (Council Conclusions 7652/1/08 Rev 1.).
2000–2001: the dot-com crash From 2001 to 2003, following the dot-com crash, poor investment returns contributed to an increase in unfunded liabilities, representing $14B of the $27B rise.
It is a government agency entrusted to assess, collect and account for all taxes, fees and levies in Rivers State, Nigeria.
By 2016 it had almost 200 hedge fund managers and institutional investors as members; the total assets under management of all members was $3 trillion.
America could as well allocate the badly needed conveyor belts for the above ground pits and steel billets to British manufacturers of mining machinery.
The bank had been speculating by shorting East India Company stock on a massive scale, and apparently using customer deposits to cover losses.
It was concerned with the independence of auditors in the wake of the collapse of Arthur Andersen and the Enron scandal in the US in 2002.
In 2009, Governor Pat Quinn included pension reforms for newly-hired public employees, including a higher retirement age and capped cost-of-living adjustment rate, but the proposed changes were not enacted by lawmakers.
Subject to a maximum of 1 million euros, exposures to small businesses managed as retail exposures also fall under this category.
NAIC model acts and regulations provide some degree of uniformity between states, but these models do not have the force of law and have no effect unless they are adopted by a state.
Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering References External links Official website (in Russian) Банку России нашли надзирателя by Igor Moiseyev, Anna Inozemtseva, Svetlana Dementyeva.
The government has mandated a minimum price, but the market already bears and is using a higher price, this is called a non-binding price floor.
Financial System In June 2018, the staff of the Committee developed a comprehensive overview of the structure, operation, and transparency of the U.S.
surplus An important artifact of the state-based insurance regulation system in the United States is the dichotomy between admitted and surplus insurers.
International cooperation KDIF has maintained membership in the International Association of Deposit Insurers since 2003.
Therefore a reinforced legal framework regarding the role and tasks of the Committee in this respect should be provided.
Credit scores, such as FICO for consumers or bond ratings from S&P, Fitch or Moodys for corporations or governments, typically imply a certain probability of default.
The IASB Due Process Handbook describes the consultative arrangements of the IASB, and includes information on how standards are developed.
[...] to establish a new organisational structure for financial services committees (OJ L 79, 24 March 2005, p.
The rules are deployed in four phases: banks and broker-dealers (11 April 2020), financial markets infrastructures (11 July 2020), insurers and asset managers (11 October 2020) and non-financial entities (11 January 2021).
Charges were filed under Russian Criminal Code Article 159, Part 4 (fraud by organised group) and Article 210 (criminal organisation).
The Code of Conduct was not only meant to guarantee an increased transparency of prices and services in the cross-border securities business, but was also supposed to stimulate the international securities traffic.
The governing laws and regulations are laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On banks and banking activity” (1995) and Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan “On mandatory insurance of deposits placed with the second-tier banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan” (2006).
The commission was established by the enactment of the Financial Services Commission Act on 26 November 2003 and it commenced operations on 2 February 2004.
See also List of financial supervisory authorities by country References External links Official website
By 1740, Rhode Island bills of exchange were only four percent of face value and those of Massachusetts was eleven percent.
See also List of company registers List of financial supervisory authorities by country References External links Official Website
US airfare before 1978 Until the late 1970s, government regulated price floors on airfares in the US made flying "absurdly expensive" to the point that in 1965, more than 80% of Americans had never flown on a jet.
The new member paid a net fee of 69,800 yuan, and then returned the new person 19,000 yuan, the remaining 50,800 yuan, will undergo layer-by-layer exploitation.
The Hampel Report relied more on broad principles and a 'common sense' approach which was necessary to apply to different situations rather than Cadbury and Greenbury's 'box-ticking' approach.
The scope of coverage are bank accounts of individuals and individual entrepreneurs of all types with resident banks in the Republic of Kazakhstan in any currency.
In September 2017, the board announced that it was changing its name from HFSB to the SBAI or Standards Board for Alternative Investments (SBAI) to "reflect the evolution of the industry".
The Council noted that specific tasks could be explicitly given to the Committees to foster supervisory cooperation and convergence, and their role in assessing risks to financial stability.
Regulation SHO was the SEC's first update to short selling restrictions since the uptick rule in 1938.
Bank Loans made to banks or securities firms subject to regulatory capital requirements come under this category.
Fugitive individuals Two key figures remain at large with active international warrants: According to Russian prosecutorial documents, both fugitives face charges under Criminal Code Article 210, Part 3 (criminal organisation leadership) and Article 159, Part 4 (large-scale fraud).
In the Starting itself the AFSA made it clear that the ALSE will majorly focus on the Government Securities Trading in the very first Year of establishment.
The Act provided for disclosure of information, subpoena power, administrative procedure, criminal and civil sanctions, injunctions and suits for damages and other relief.
History Prior to the establishment of the IA, the insurance industry in Hong Kong was overseen by the Hong Kong government's Office of the Commissioner of Insurance, which had no power to control agents.
1947 The European Vicious Cycle Brown found out different vicious cycles in the European economies, which could affect the United States.
Overview The Securities Financing Transaction Regulation (SFTR) is a body of legislation for securities lending markets.
The remit of the committee was to review the Code laid down by the Cadbury Report (now found in the Combined Code).
The tactic involves using specialized, high-bandwidth hardware to quickly enter and withdraw large quantities of orders in an attempt to flood the market, thereby gaining an advantage over slower market participants.
The increase of the price from the initial value of AU$1.30 to AU$1.50 gave researchers a second chance to study the impact of the increased minimum price.
The funds available under the margin loan are determined by the broker based on the securities owned and provided by the trader, which act as collateral for the loan.
International subdivision – Linda Athanasiadou (Λίντα Αθανασιάδου) (Линда Атанасиаду), also known by aliases Kovalenko, Torres, and Athanasiades, managed all offshore financial infrastructure and head of the offshore money-laundering hub.
On the one hand, the UN and the Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy hailed the Agreement as 'historic' for securing NDC commitments from 189 countries.
Bear raid In a bear raid there is an attempt to push the price of a stock down by heavy selling or short selling.
It has ten extension offices located in Baguio, Tarlac, Legazpi, Iloilo, Bacolod, Cebu, Tacloban, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, and Zamboanga.
The ISSB intends to work 'in close cooperation' with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to ensure harmonisation is achieved between the conceptually based IFRS accounting standards and the ISSB's sustainability disclosure standards.
The Member controls the: Directorate General of Income Tax Investigation Directorate of Income Tax Intelligence and Criminal Investigation Chief Commissioner of Income Tax Central See also List of Income Tax Department officer ranks Civil Services of India == References ==
Poland took over all of Germany’s Silesian mines which can export ten to fifteen million tons to coal deficit countries.
Matters relating to the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976; 8.
Types of margin requirements The current liquidating margin is the value of a security's position if the position were liquidated now.
All the financial activities in Albania are administered and regulated by the Albanian Financial Supervisory Authority (AFSA).
All securities, asset management and futures firms in Korea are KOFIA members and are subject to KOFIA’s self-regulatory operations.
In 1978, the US government deregulated airfares, on the grounds that flying is not a necessity (like food or prescription drugs), and nor was it addictive (like alcohol).
However, some brokerage firms that specialize in penny stocks (referred to colloquially as bucket shops) have used the lack of short selling during this month to pump and dump thinly traded IPOs.
The Agency of Deposit Compensation is a public institution and is accountable to the Council of Ministers of Belarus and to National Bank of Belarus.
The Anti–Money Laundering and Counter–Terrorism Financing Act 2006 (Cth) (AML/CTF Act) is the principal legislative instrument, although there are also offence provisions contained in Division 400 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth).
Repeal Provisions relating to minimum pricing of alcohol were repealed in 2025 by the Liquor Legislation Amendment (Repeal of Minimum Pricing) Act 2025.
The single overriding objective shared by all listed companies, whatever their size or type of business is the preservation and the greatest practical enhancement over time of their shareholders' investment.
A price floor may lead to market failure if the market is not able to allocate scarce resources in an efficient manner.
It is involved in the formulation of tax policy as well as the supervision of revenue collection due to the state.
Nixon commented on the futile attempts to contain the economy in the 1960s and promised to bring about change by proposing tax cuts over the course of his term to create new jobs.
§ 1904) was a United States law that authorized the President to stabilize prices, rents, wages, salaries, interest rates, dividends and similar transfers as part of a general program of price controls within the American domestic goods and labor markets.
"Basel II: International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: a Revised Framework".
An unlimited state guarantee was announced on 31 July 2008 (excluding deposits belonging to individuals registered as sole traders).
Definitions In a perfect market (one that matches a simple microeconomic model), an excess of demand will prompt sellers to increase prices until demand at that price matches the available supply, establishing market equilibrium.
The institution replaced the two previous institutions named the Unit Trusts and the Securities Commission along with the Office of the Superintendent of Insurance (OSI).
See also Combined Code Cadbury Report (1992) Greenbury Report (1995) Hampel Report (1998) Turnbull Report Higgs Report (2003) References External links Smith Report (in full) General page by the Financial Reporting Council
During searches at QBF's headquarters in the "City of Capitals" complex, investigators found documentation and electronic media, including a memo for managers advising how to behave during law enforcement visits.
Labour shortages can occur even during economic periods of high unemployment or youth unemployment within specific industries due to low salaries offered.
'Deposit Guarantee Fund of Kazakhstan') is a non-profit organization that guarantees deposits of individuals (including individual entrepreneurs) and placed with second-tier banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The associations' aim is to provide members with the opportunity to review the latest developments in corporate business registers internationally and exchange experiences and information on the present and future operation of corporate business registration systems.
The second-generation manager was awarded 2,394 yuan, and the third-generation manager was awarded 1,596 yuan.
From an industry dominated by small, local, single-line mutual companies and member societies, the business of insurance has grown increasingly towards multi-line, multi-state and even multi-national insurance conglomerates and holding companies.
Its recommendations now form part of the Combined Code on corporate governance, applicable through the Listing Rules for the London Stock Exchange.
References External links Official web-page(in Russian) Information about ADC(in Russian) at National Bank of the Republic of Belarus
The new supervisory body took over the tasks of the Insurance and Pension Funds Supervisory Commission and of the Securities and Exchange Commission (Poland), which were abolished pursuant to that act.
Unlike the earlier act, this statute did not prohibit the colonies from issuing paper money, but it did forbid them from designating future currency issues as legal tender for public and private debts.
It was established in December 2015 by the Group of 20 (G20) and the Financial Stability Board (FSB), and is chaired by Michael Bloomberg.
In January 2008, the working group was established as a nonprofit, called the Hedge Fund Standards Board (HFSB).
It would lead on to the European Market Infrastructure Regulation and other central counterparty clearing harmonization as part of the European Union.
The SEC is among the few securities commissions in the world that simultaneously acts as a corporate registrar and a securities regulator.
The Polish Financial Supervision Authority, in Polish Urząd Komisji Nadzoru Finansowego (UKNF) is the main financial supervisory authority for Poland.
Impact Initially there was a community backlash against the act - several Territory Labor Party members of the Legislative Assembly acknowledged that communication around the act had not been handled well, that the party was 'in a muddle'.
Reforms to the internal ratings-based approach to credit risk are due to be introduced under the Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms standards.
While the state's pension funding ratio increased to 75% by 2000, the funding improvements were driven by $15B of favorable changes to actuarial assumptions and better-than-expected investment returns, and state contributions fell $6B short of required amounts.
1040 Sunshine Project (Chinese: 1040陽光工程) is an illegal pyramid scheme or multi-level marketing in China.
investors considering entering into a "short against the box" transaction should be aware of the tax consequences of this transaction.
Starting with the Tax relief, some other policies can be developed in accordance to attract the Foreign Investors.
At their January 2009 meeting, the Trustees of the Foundation concluded the first part of the second Constitution Review, announcing the creation of a Monitoring Board and the expansion of the IASB to 16 members and giving more consideration to the geographical composition of the IASB.
In the former Soviet Union during the 1980s, prices were artificially low by fiat (i.e., high prices were outlawed).
KOFIA offers services such as making policy recommendations, providing member services and guiding the globalization of the Korean financial industry.
A second meeting was hosted by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission and held in Melbourne, Australia in March 2005.
Criminal scheme Operations period According to court findings, QBF operated a criminal scheme from June 2012 to May 2021.
This premium margin is equal to the premium that they would need to pay to buy back the option and close out their position.
The system, new to the country, eliminates touting and multiple taxation, and plugs leakages through the use of scratch cards.
Background Thirty-six leaders from the financial sector, including banks, broker-dealers, asset managers, private funds, insurance companies, and academia comprise the committee's membership.
By doing so, they reduce the number of transactions (because each transaction is of greater worth) and sell their product down-stream much faster.
The commission now oversees all regulatory responsibilities previously handled by the government through the Financial Services Department.
equity markets Reducing transaction costs by enhancing competition Recent proposals Roadmap for Regulatory Reform In May 2017, the committee's “Roadmap for Regulatory Reform” set forth priority regulatory actions for the Trump administration that would promote U.S.
In 2014, SBAI became an affiliate member of International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and in 2016 SBAI and International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds (IFSWF) agreed to engage in mutual observership.
In March 1997 the Restrictive Practices Court ruled that the Net Book Agreement was against the public interest and therefore illegal.
In 1971, Nixon proceeded with the tax cuts under the provisions of phase II of the Economic Stabilization Act as it was amended earlier that year.
The ninth meeting of was held in New Delhi India and was hosted by The 2012 Corporate Registers Forum conference was hosted by the Minister of Corporate Affairs, India.
Tier 1 compliance is harder to gain than Tier 2 as it takes into account individual's positions (which by their nature are diverse).
All individuals must meet the RG 146 requirements before they can sell financial products in Australia to the general public, this includes up-to-date ongoing training through a continuous professional development (CPD) program.
This difference has to stay above a minimum margin requirement, the purpose of which is to protect the broker against a fall in the value of the securities to the point that the investor can no longer cover the loan.
The idea of an optional federal charter was first raised after a spate of solvency and capacity issues plagued property and casualty insurers in the 1970s.
See also Insurance regulatory law Securities and Futures Commission Hong Kong Monetary Authority List of financial supervisory authorities by country == References ==
From January 1, 2008, the second phase of the merger of financial supervision in Poland, the Polish FSA took over from the National Bank of Poland the powers of the Commission for Banking Supervision together with its office, the General Inspectorate of Banking Supervision.
It will become mandatory for companies to report on these disclosures by 2025 in the UK, although some companies will have to report earlier.
About 50% of the money laundering incidents in Latin America were reported by organizations in the financial sector.
To keep a watch on different aspects of economic offences and the emergence of new types of such offences.
Through the efforts of FMK in October 2002, Russia was removed from the "black list", and in June 2003 the Committee became a member of the FATF.
This was the first time the IA had to perform a significant regulatory action since its establishment.
For small business default probability estimation, logistic regression is again the most common technique for estimating the drivers of default for a small business based on a historical data base of defaults.
6.25) and may optionally issue a "review draft" to allow for a final "fatal flaw" check before balloting.
President Jimmy Carter attempted to create an "Office of Insurance Analysis" in the Treasury Department, but the idea was abandoned under industry pressure.
Nixon reported that "public support and cooperation" was there for the council when it was making the tough decisions, and he also assured the American people that the Cost of Living Council always "kept the public interest in mind".
During the 1973 oil crisis, rationing and price controls were instituted in many countries, which caused shortages.
The farms could only produce for 20 million people; 20 million must be fed from abroad, paid by export or by plain relief.
See also Early American currency Gold Standard Act of the United States (1900), also sometimes called the "Currency Act" Mercantilism Navigation Acts Sugar Act 1764 Stamp Act 1765 Monetary sovereignty Notes References Bibliography Allen, Larry (2009).
The Investigation Division of the CBDT, abbreviated as Inv-CBDT, is the revenue enforcement agency of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, Government of India.
In 1905, The Times tried but failed to challenge the agreement by setting up a low-cost book borrowing club.
In June 1994 Ireland's Competition Authority refused to license the NBA, on the grounds that UK publishers' market share was high enough for the NPA to distort competition in Ireland.
If a seller sells a security short without owning it first, the seller must borrow the security from a third party to fulfill its obligation.
Most PD models output PDs that are of a hybrid nature: they are neither perfectly Point-In-Time (PIT) nor through-the-cycle (TTC).
[...]" So the European Commission's decision (2009/78/EC) of 23 January 2009, "for reasons of legal security and clarity", repealed, in its 16th article Decision 2004/5/EC, which changed the legal framework of the committee.
History Policy Statement 146 (PS146) was introduced under the Financial Services Reform Act 2001 (FSR Act).
The Founders of the ALSE were the Americans Bank of Investments and Credins Bank with a share of 42.5% each and AK with 15% of investments.
Pozen, senior lecturer, MIT Sloan School of Management Nancy Prior, president, Fixed Income Division, Fidelity Investments David Rubenstein, co-founder & co-executive chairman, The Carlyle Group Hal S.
See also List of banks in Guernsey List of financial supervisory authorities by country References External links Official site
The Corporate Registers Forum is an association grouping the corporate registries among the countries of the Commonwealth of Nations.
The objective of the legislation is to reduce systemic risk in securities lending and get more visibility over collateral re-use.
The Kazakhstan Deposit Insurance Fund (KDIF; Kazakh: Қазақстанның депозиттерге кепілдік беру қоры, romanized: Qazaqstannıñ depozïtterge kepildik berw qorı, lit.
SFTR was introduced by the EU to implement the FSB’s policy framework for addressing shadow banking risks in securities lending and repo and increase transparency in these markets.
As of 2020, the size of Illinois' pension obligation is $237B, but the state's pension funds have only $96B available for payouts to retirees.
On 26 June 2017, the IA officially commenced operations taking over from the Office of the Insurance Commissioner as regulator for all insurance companies and as well as overseeing their insurance sales staff.
This was due to the steps taken to plug revenue nets by dismantling unnecessary roadblocks to the service, elimination of touting and unnecessary middlemen, the introduction of innovative collection systems, as well as robust tax education and stakeholder engagement.
The reports shall contain the composition of the collateral used in a SFT, whether that collateral is available for re-use and has been re-used, or whether any haircuts have been applied to it.
Decisions by suppliers not to raise prices in order to maintain friendly relationships with potential future customers during a supply disruption.
After the act was passed, the senior directors and key executive members were hired in November 2001.
The Guernsey Financial Services Commission is the regulatory body for the finance sector in the Bailiwick of Guernsey.
The Code of Conduct contains rules which aimed to enhance transparency for customers and improve services for cross-border transactions as well as harmonise the European capital market and revitalise the international securities traffic.
For example, Jane sells a share of stock she does not own for $100 and puts $20 of her own money as collateral, resulting $120 cash in the account.
In 2020, FSC expanded the scope of its functions and also included the national and international virtual asset service providers and trust service providers.
Similarly, with spoofing, a computerized program submits or cancelling multiple bids or offers to manipulate the price of a security.
Mark Crawford, Head of the American Chamber of commerce, recently stated in an Interview that the Albanian Securities Exchange (ALSE) will soon make the field better by attracting the foreign investors.
See also Alternative investment Managed Funds Association Standards organization References External links Official website
History Korea's Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act was enacted to advance the Korean financial market by improving the competitive edge of the nation's capital market and financial investment industry.
After the remaining money, allocated to the ranks of the old master, the generation of bosses of the second generation of the three generations of the bosses each received 10,500 yuan.
However, according to historians Jack Greene and Richard Jellison, the currency debate was no longer really a "live issue" in 1774, due to the 1773 amendment of the act.
In 1962 the Net Book Agreement was examined by the Restrictive Practices Court, which decided that the NBA was of benefit to the industry, since it enabled publishers to subsidise the printing of the works of important but less widely read authors using money from bestsellers.
The Health Service Executive justified the move on public-health grounds, claiming that "The heaviest drinkers buy the cheapest alcohol.
The FSC has the responsibility of regulating and supervising any of the country's institutions that engage in non-deposit-taking financial services in relation to insurance, acquisition or disposal of securities and units under a registered unit trust.
Riley Review In October 2017, the Riley review into alcohol legislation in the territory was published.
The two methods most commonly used were to either use a hole punch to punch a hole in the cover of the book or to use a marker pen to mark the edge of the pages.
The FATF currently comprises 34 member jurisdictions and 2 regional organisations, representing most major financial centres in all parts of the globe.
The proposal was raised again in 2011 with the government agreeing to withdraw a section that gave the IA power to temporarily suspend insurance companies or their staff from working in the industry without a disciplinary procedure or appeal.
Background and semantics The International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) had been established in 1973 and had issued a number of standards known as International Accounting Standards (IAS).
A third meeting was hosted by the Hong Kong Companies Registry held in Hong Kong in 2006 and it was agreed that the Corporate Registers Forum would be registered under the Hong Kong Business Ordinance as an unincorporated entity.
The European Code of Conduct for Clearing and Settlement (Code of Conduct) was an initiative of European securities exchanges, clearing houses and central securities depositories to set uniform rules for trading, clearing, settlement and custody services for stocks.
To ensure broad international balance, the IASB membership is typically structured geographically with four members each from Asia-Oceania, Europe, and the Americas, one from Africa, and one at large, subject to maintaining overall balance.
It also established that the source of wealth of political persons must be investigated and identified.
The above framework provides a method to quantify credit cycles, their systematic and random components and resulting PIT and TTC PDs.
One important point was that an auditor himself should look at whether a company's corporate governance structure provides safeguards to preserve his own independence.
The report informed directors of their obligations under the Combined Code with regard to keeping good "internal controls" in their companies, or having good audits and checks to ensure the quality of financial reporting and catch any fraud before it becomes a problem.
From the direct recommender to the three generations of bosses, the income of all people must be deducted 10% of the management fee, and will be intercepted and used by the regional chief.
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code (1999) also known as the "Turnbull Report" was a report drawn up with the London Stock Exchange for listed companies.
Additionally, actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of future pension payments and the financial performance of the pension fund asset investments affect the annual valuation of pension liabilities.
The Hampel Report (January 1998 Archived 4 May 2010 at the Wayback Machine) was designed to be a revision of the corporate governance system in the UK.
The controversy's most important impact was psychological, in that it helped convince many colonists that Parliament did not understand or care about their problems.
Due to technical interfaces built to ensure the interoperability of diverse platforms, segregated accounting as well as newly structured services the market participants will be enabled to order Clearing, Settlement and Safekeeping at different institutions.
The Commission uses a risk based approach to the supervision of licensees which is underpinned by a system known as PRISM.
RIVTAMIS, Rivers State Tax Management Information System, is an online platform that provides taxpayers and tax administrators a convenient and effective means of paying and managing taxes and tax information.
See also Financial Supervisory Commission (Taiwan) Economy of Taiwan References External links Official website
Following the adoption in September 2002 amendments to the Federal Law "On Combating Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime and Financing of Terrorism", The Financial Monitoring Committee (KFM of Russia) functions have been enhanced with countering terrorism financing.
Structure and Responsibilities The Prime Minister of Poland (President of the Council of Ministers) appoints the chairperson of the KNF (and head of UKNF).
It has been credited with ensuring that Polish banks remained relatively healthy during the most recent global banking crisis by monitoring and responding to bank liquidity measures in the midst of the general slowdown in economic activity.
Location Rosfinmonitoring is located between the Novokirovsky Prospekt and Myasnitskaya ulitsa, 39 in Moscow at the Tsentrosoyuz building which is named after Centrosoyuz and also houses Rosstat (Russian: Росстат) the Russian Federal State Statistics Service.
Background In 2010, a report was published into alcohol culture in the Northern Territory, suggesting that alcohol was one of the main causes of indigenous child abuse in the territory.
Scott, Nomura Professor and president of Program on International Financial Systems, Harvard Law School; Committee President John Shrewsberry, CFO, Wells Fargo Leslie N.
See also UK company law Corporate Governance Cadbury Report (1992), Financial Aspects of Corporate Governance, on corporate governance generally.
Examples Pools Agreements, often written, among a group of traders to delegate authority to a single manager to trade in a specific stock for a work period of time and then to share in the resulting profits or losses.
See also Glossary of Islam Imam Marabout Mawlawi Mullah Marja Sheikh Rumi, Persian poet also known as Mawlana == References ==
In Germany, it was further developed and disseminated primarily by Johann Michael Sailer and is considered a precursor to modern pastoral care.
The term is missing in all theological and rituals-related text preceding the 2nd-century BCE, as well as the earliest Dharmasutras texts.
Shripujya The heads of the institutions of Śvetāmbara yatis were often termed shripujya, similar to Digambara institutions headed by the Bhattarakas.
See also The Occultation Khasf al-Bayda' Shu'ayb bin Salih Voice from heaven Reappearance of al-Mahdi Nafs-e-Zakiyyah (Pure soul) The signed letter of Muhammad al-Mahdi (Tawqee) == References ==
During the Priestly Blessing, the Levites traditionally wash the hands of the Kohanim prior to the blessing of the House of Israel.
Nestorius, Theodore of Mopsuestia & Ibas of Edessa condemned as heresiarchs - the former by the Council of Ephesus, the latter 2 posthumously at the 2nd Council of Constantinople over the Controversy of Three Chapters, for promoting Nestorianism, but venerated in Church of the East denominations.
Bhaktisiddhānta Sarasvatī Prabhupāda uses it for Śrī Caitanya Mahāprabhu in his song Guru Paramparā.
Against the often mechanized routine, particularly from the monastic tradition, efforts were made to address this, such as by Bernard of Clairvaux.
Kavi Santokh Singh, in Suraj Prakash, describes this moment: Arrived at Hari Mandir, ragis were singing in rags’s high notes.
Because of diverse geographical locations, the names have several variations: Alouwi – Arabic variant, of Sephardic origin Aguiló – surname to the Jews from Mallorca (Xuetes) Bazes – a Levite surname.
The assembly of Saltigues would predict the outcome, offer precautionary advice on when to launch the attack, the route to take to the battlefield and the animals to be sacrificed, etc.
Derived from the root "yat," meaning "to strive" or "to make an effort," Yati traditionally refers to one who is disciplined, dedicated, and often associated with ascetics or sages (tapasvis) who have renounced worldly attachments in pursuit of higher spiritual goals.
Like any modern professional, ordained graduates negotiate the terms of employment with potential employers and sign a contract specifying duties, duration of service, salary, benefits, pension, and the like.
A dasasīlamātā (Pali) or dasa sil mata (Sinhala: දස සිල් මාතා) is an Eight- or Ten Precepts-holding anagārikā (lay renunciant) in Buddhism in Sri Lanka, where the newly reestablished bhikkhuni (nun's) lineage is not officially recognized yet.
Today kohanim retain a lesser though somewhat distinct status within Judaism, and are bound by additional restrictions according to Orthodox Judaism.
"The people long brooded in silence over the oppressions and outrages of this high caste, whom they deeply hated but greatly feared.
Judaism As of 2023, the official rabbi of the prison ministry is Jonathan Markovitch, an emissary of Chabad.
He proffers that the mahasiddha tradition "broke with the conventions of Buddhist monastic life of the time, and abandoning the monastery they practiced in the caves, the forests, and the country villages of Northern India.
Election India The Grand Mufti of India is elected by the Sunni Barelvi Muslims and appointed by the Barelvi Sunni Muslims.
Sheikhs duplicate the Prophetic realities, and are also expected to perform and act as an intermediary between the Creator and the created, since the sheikh has arrived close to God through his meditations and spiritual travels.
Guru gotra, refers to the practice of adopting the name of guru or the parampara as one's gotra (surname) instead of gotra at birth.
According to this definition, pastoral care describes the general work of the clergy of taking care of the people in their community.
Also in December 2012, the manual To minister prisoners was published, written by Sergey Zamula, Yuri Cousio, Jaroslav Storonyak, Igor Car, Basil Pantelyuk, Emelyan Kolodchak, and Constantine Pantelei.
The title "Elder" is usually given to those Anglicans ministers who are not vicars, but hold a learned role within or beyond a congregation, such as a Reader who assists a priest or a Pioneer Minister who seeks to engage with those who are outside the traditional Anglican Communion structures.
Earlier examples of firzogerin include Rebbetsin Serril Rappaport of Oleksiniec (daughter of the Dubner Maggid, c.
Lay preachers in the Anglican Communion are usually called Pastors, especially Chaplains and other pastoral office holders, who are not ordained but engage with a congregation or workplace in an advisory capacity.
7th century Augustine of Hippo posthumously refers to Mani, the founder of Manichaeism, as a heresiarch.
And of these there are two classes, some of them called Sarmanae ("Σαρμάναι"), and Brahmanae ("Βραχμαναι").
Divine knowledge is universal, and their knowledge after obtaining enlightenment through Naam Simran has been compiled and included in the holy book of Sikhism, the Sri Guru Granth Sahib.
Seyed Khorasani (Arabic: ٱلسَّيِّد ٱلْخُرَاسَانِي, romanized: As-Sayyid Al-Khurāsānī) is an Islamic leader whose rising is an essential part of Islamic eschatology.
While often labeled “monks” and "nuns" in English, some consider it offensive and misleading to refer to non-celibate Buddhist clergy by this term, as it conflates them with bhikkhu and bhikkhuni.
Jisha (侍者), along with the titles inji and sannō, are Japanese terms used in reference to the personal attendant of a monastery's abbot or teacher in Zen Buddhism.
In the contemporary era, Egyptian Muhaddith Qadi Ahmad Shakir would confer the title "Hujjat al-Islam" to his teacher Muhammad Rashid Rida, upon his death.
The Araba is often regarded as the highest-ranking babalawo in a town or region, serving as both a spiritual and community leader.
In Church of England cathedrals, the Canon Chancellor (more usually known simply as the Chancellor) is one of the canons of the cathedral who has a particular responsibility for matters of education and scholarship, often acting as the cathedral librarian and archivist.
The title has been in common use since the 5th century, but is mentioned for the first time in a letter to Epiphanius, prefixed to his Panarium (c.
While the specific historical details may be challenging to ascertain due to the ancient nature of the Ifá system, it is clear that the babalawo and Ifá practice have deep cultural and religious significance within the Yoruba community.
Consequently, there are among the Karaites many learned men who are called by the title "ha-melammed ha-gadol" (the great master), or merely "ha-melammed" (the master; comp.
These discussions developed in different directions and were influenced by traditions (hadith) attributed to Muhammad.
The latter are not necessarily shamans, and their function is merely to hold sacrifices (the word zhrets literally means "sacrificer", from Proto-Slavic *žьrti, and is cognate of Slavic words for "offering").
In Burma, an eight precept nun is addressed as thilashin or sayalay, whereas a fully ordained woman is called a rahan-ma ("female monk").
According to Al-Fadl ibn Shadhan of Neyshabur, in an authentic document from Imam Ja'far al-Sadiq, al-Khorasani is one of the townspeople of Samarkand, and he is considered to be amongst the assistants of the Mahdi.
Lise McKean states the guru concept has been prevalent over the range of class and caste backgrounds, and the disciples a guru attracts come from both genders and a range of classes and castes.
See also List of yoga schools List of Hindu gurus and sants Ngagpa Rishi Notes References Sources External links Yoga/Yoga Tales at Wikibooks Media related to Yogis at Wikimedia Commons
The melamed was appointed by the community, and there were special regulations determining how many children he might teach, as well as rules governing the choice of applicants for the office and the dismissal of a melamed.
Nine of the fourteen Malaysian states have their own sultan; each of these nine states have their own mufti who usually controls the Islamic Council or Islamic Department of the state.
This relentless inner drive, combined with their composed nature, makes them inclined towards creative thinking, spiritual depth, and analytical clarity.
The prototype of this new type of rabbinical leader and educator was Rabbi Nosson Tzvi Finkel (1849-1927) known as the Alter (elder) of the Slabodka yeshiva, Yeshivas Knesses Yisrael (Slabodka), in Lithuania.
Congregation elders do not receive monetary compensation; traveling overseers receive a modest stipend.
However, in 1978 Pope John Paul I chose not to be crowned and opted for a simpler papal inauguration ceremony, and his successors have followed that example.
Cultural contributions: founding Hindu temples The history of Nath yogis has been diverse, such as in the 11th and 12th centuries, when Buddhists in South India converted to Nath siddha traditions and helped establish Shiva Hindu temples and monasteries.
It has been mentioned in the traditions (hadiths) that "you ought to have the expectation of Faraj from three things": Establishment of differences between the ones who are from Shaam, for the things which is between them; Fear/bewilderment in the month of Ramadan.
Not all countries with large Sunni Muslim populations have Grand Muftis; in those that do, the Grand Mufti is typically appointed by the state or elected by a council of scholars.
Mahayana In Mahayana Buddhism, Vinaya based monasticism is part of the system of "vows of individual liberation".
In addition to this, some of them also perform divination services on behalf of the kings and paramount chiefs of the Yoruba people.
This parallel prayer system was probably welcome to women for whom the Hebrew liturgy, due to their lack of education, was largely incomprehensible.
They are usually a rabbi who has an official position within a yeshiva and is responsible for the non-academic areas of yeshiva students' lives.
121 Centre d'étude des civilisations, "Cahiers du mythe." Issues 4-5, Nouvelles éditions africaines.
This led to a conservative reaction on the part of the Jewish Community in Berlin, and the appointment of one Asher Lion (1776–1863) as the chazzan of the Reform temple.
“Buddha, open Sahib Grinth, make [Sabad] resound, [let] the whole Panth listen.”32 After listening to [Guru’s] ask liked by mind, [Buddha’s] mouth spoke statement is true.
Hence, frequently, when they are seen to be well, and are neither oppressed, nor driven to desperation by any evil, they depart from life.
Distinctions in practice Church governance is generally organised in one of three main types: Episcopal polity, in which churches are governed in a hierarchical fashion, with the role of elders being fulfilled by external bishops.
A mashgiach ruchani (Hebrew: משגיח רוחני; pl., mashgichim ruchani'im), sometimes mashgiach for short, is a spiritual supervisor or guide.
Kiev Metropolis Initially, in some cases it served as an extra title: for example, manuscripts of 1174 mention Hegumen Polikarp of Kiev Cave Monastery as "Hegumen Archimandrite".
Modern Hinduism can be regarded as a combination of Vedic and śramaṇa traditions as it is substantially influenced by both traditions.
In 19th-century Germany and the United States, the duties of the rabbi in some respects became increasingly similar to the duties of other clergy, such as the Protestant Christian minister, and the title "pulpit rabbis" arose to describe this phenomenon.
Role of Saltigues in Serer society The Saltigues were responsible for predicting the future of kings, the weather, any natural disaster or political catastrophe that could befall the country, etc.
This is an acceptance of the full physical and spiritual discipline outlined in the Sikh Reht Maryada through a religious ceremony performed at the Gurdwara called an Amrit Sanchar.
In other Christian traditions (e.g., Presbyterianism, Churches of Christ, Plymouth Brethren), an elder may be a lay person serving as an administrator in a local congregation, or be ordained and serving in preaching (teaching during church gatherings) or pastoral roles.
The term is frequently used in Sufi orders such as the Naqshbandiyya, Qādiriyya, Chishtiya, Shadhiliya and Suhrawardiyya.
Virupa (alternate orthographies: Birwapa/Birupa) lived in 9th century India and was known for his great attainments.
There are also specific youth-oriented programs, such as Coming of Age, and Our Whole Lives, a lifespan sexuality education program with a youth age group.
In Shia Islam, Hujjaj al-Islam are supposed to be an authority in order to guide them until the return of Imam al-Mahdi while preserving and continuing his teachings.
The role of the mashgiach ruchani was strongest in the era before World War II, when often the mashgichim were responsible for maintaining the yeshiva financially, recruiting and interviewing new students, and hiring staff, something akin to academic deans.
In Thailand, where it is illegal for a woman to take a bhikkhuni ordination, they are called maechi.
In some cases, their training includes mastery of hundreds of odu Ifá verses, herbal medicine, ritual performance, and the spiritual philosophy of Yoruba cosmology.
The warrior ascetics were institutionalized as a religious order by Gorakhnath and were expanding in the 13th century, after the establishment of the first Islamic Sultanate in India.
Approaching the Great Perfection: Simultaneous and Gradual Approaches to Dzogchen Practice in Jigme Lingpa's Longchen Nyingtig.
The Dvija restrictions may be theoretical, because most students learnt their economically useful skills through apprenticeship within their family or at guilds.
Chancellor is an ecclesiastical title used by several quite distinct officials of some Christian churches.
This term, first established in the beginning of Islamic history, used to refer to figures who served as authorities, but now it is used to refer to the scholars who have Islamic knowledge.
Anything he proposed however, would have to pass through government's Department of Cults and Education.
Similar to an abbot visitor, the archimandrite would visit the monasteries under his charge to see that the monks were keeping a serious religious life, to draw attention to abuses, straighten out difficulties and give confidence and encouragement to all those who needed it.
Notable persons Kumaran Asan, one of the triumvirate poets of modern Kerala References External links Media related to Aasaan at Wikimedia Commons
Etymology In Classical Sanskrit, the word yogi (Sanskrit: masc yogī, योगी; fem yoginī) is derived from yogin, which refers to a practitioner of yoga.
Martin of Armenia, the fictional founder of the Old Russian Rite used by the Old Believers Dante's Inferno In his Divine Comedy, Dante Alighieri represents the heresiarchs as being immured in tombs of fire in the Sixth Circle of Hell.
As such, he plays only a marginal role in Sunni Islam, and some Sunni theologians have rejected the concept of the Mahdi altogether.
The melamed was not allowed to punish his pupils too severely; and he had to teach both in the daytime and during part of the night.
See also Babalú-Ayé Iyalawo Pai-de-santo References External links http://ifa-houseofwisdom.com/babalawo.html https://web.archive.org/web/20180102013424/http://www.ifafoundation.org/does-the-babalawo-tell-all/ Abdullahi, Aa (15 July 2011).
Eventually, the common usage of the term Asan gradually lost its original meaning as a venerated symbolic representation for teachers, as it is found used in every parlance without any significance to its meaning.
A leader appearing in the person of the young brave whom we have named, the people rose under his direction and killed every Nicotani (Ni-go-ta-ni), young and old.
Latin Church In the Roman rite, the senior Cardinal Deacon is the Cardinal Protodeacon of the Holy Roman Church.
Traditionally, a Kshatriya would start learning the use of arms, while a Vaishya would start a trade apprenticeship.
Qualifications To be appointed a Granthi, one of the main qualifications is the commitment to the Sikh religion by becoming an Amritdhari Sikh.
The female members of Ganaka were generally addressed as Asatti or Asaatti, because they too had engaged in teaching 3Rs to pupil.
In addition to these regulations, many others concerning the melamed are given in Yoreh De'ah, as well as in Hoshen Mishpat, but some of them are not observed at present.
Traditionally, the title "Jagadguru" is used by the peetadhipathis of various mathas founded by renowned spiritual leaders such as Adi Shankaracharya, Ramanujacharya, Madhvacharya, Nimbarkacharya, and Vallabhacharya.
In contemporary Japanese Buddhism, non-celibate clergy are commonly referred by terms like sōryo (僧侶), and are regarded as distinct from bhikkhu, known in Japanese as biku (比丘).
shaman, gothi or mage) is a priest in ancient Slavic religions and contemporary Slavic Native Faith.
Origin The origin of women precentors in synagogues is directly related to the adoption of gender-segregated ritual space for rabbinic Jewish practice.
It was originally applied as an honorific to leading scholars, but now the use indicates a status in the hierarchy of the learned below ayatollah.
In paramapara, not only is the immediate guru revered, the three preceding gurus are also worshipped or revered.
The Spiritual Administration of the Muslims of the Chechen Republic in the period 1991–2000 functioned as the muftiate of the unrecognized Chechen Republic of Ichkeria, since 2000 as part of the Russian Federation.
The Big Four refers to the four contemporary leading Grand Ayatollahs of Twelver Shia Islam based in the holy city of Najaf in Iraq.
The five who are selected to perform this ceremony are chosen by the holy congregation referred to as the Sarbat Khalsa.
So many had suffered in the same way, so many feared that they might be made to suffer, that nothing was wanted but a leader.
According to Cherokee legend, the Ani-Kutani were slain during a mass uprising by the Cherokee, approximately 300 years prior to European contact.
late 18th century), Rachel Mendes Meza (18th century) of Jodensavanne, Leah Dreyzl (early 18th century, wife of R' Aryeh Leib Auerbach) of Stanislov, Toybe [Pan] (17th century, wife of Yankev Pan) of Prague, Deborah Ascarelli (sixteenth century) of Rome, and Rebecca Tiktiner (d.
If priests have the necessary qualifications in counseling or in psychotherapy, they may offer professional psychological services when they give pastoral counseling as part of their pastoral ministry of souls.
The identity of the true sant is also stated in the holy scriptures of Hinduism that one who is a true sant will have complete knowledge of all the holy books and will initiate three types of mantras (names) thrice.
Titles applied to youth ministry leaders vary widely as well, even within denominations, using terms such as "Youth Minister", "Youth Pastor", or simply "Youth Worker".
In modern Slavic priesthood In contemporary Slavic Native Faith, the volkhvs are those responsible for holding rites for worshipping the gods and leading communities and religious festivals.
They wear clothes made of yellow rags fluttering in the wind, or perhaps more likely, they go naked, clad only in the yellow dust of the Indian soil.
Khirka, literally meaning 'Rough cloak, scapular, coarse gown,' an initiation process in Sufism known as "Investiture with the Cloak" in which the sheik puts his khirka on the disciple.
Jainism In the late medieval period, yati came to represent a stationary monk, who lived in one place rather than wandering as required for a Jain monk.
The Tribe of Levi served particular religious duties for the Israelites and had political (administering cities of refuge) and educational responsibilities as well.
The first literary reference to a volkhv occurs in the Primary Chronicle under the year 912; there, a volkhv predicts Prince Oleg's death.
As Sufism grew, influential shayks began to acquire spiritual centers and waypoints known as khanqah, ribat, and zaouia.
The office of diocesan chancellor technically combines that of Official Principal (who presides over, and represents the bishop in, the consistory court) with that of Vicar General (who acts as the bishop's deputy in non-judicial legal and administrative affairs).
In history, some women were able to obtain that title, notably when cross-dressing as male monks, such as Susanna the Deaconess.
Normally a priest, sometimes a deacon or layperson, the chancellor keeps the official archives of the diocese, as a notary certifies documents, and generally manages the administrative offices (and sometimes finances and personnel) of a diocese.
4th century, John Philoponus (6th century), founder of tritheism, condemned at the 3rd Council of Constantinople Macedonius I of Constantinople, founder of Macedonianism, condemned at the 1st Council of Constantinople.
The music, consisting of arrangements for choir and string quartets, had a profound Jewish feeling but was rendered in a very sophisticated style.
Although not as significant as the Dajjal and the Gog and Magog, the Sufyani, another representative of the forces of dark, also features in the Sunni traditions.
Use of the term Among East European Jews, the word "melamed" is synonymous with respected and "rov," and the Yiddish term rebe is often used to mean a melamed as well as a Hasidic rebbe.
Activities in the field range from small scale youth groups attached to parishes or Catholic schools, to large international gatherings, such as World Youth Day.
This practice was subsequently borrowed and adapted by Egypt for the head of its Dar al-Ifta (House of Fatwas) from the mid-19th century.
He has the privilege of announcing the new pope's election and name (once he has been ordained to the episcopate) in the Habemus Papam announcement given from the central balcony at St.
Silsila Silsila is used in Sufism to describe the continuous spiritual chain that links Sufi orders and sheiks in a lineage relating back to Muhammad and his Companions.
Although colloquial usage in the Church distinguishes between ministers and elders, the minister is understood theologically to be an elder with a special task.
Study and teaching Rabbis have always been the main links in the chain of transmission (masorah, מסורה) of Torah throughout the generations of Jews.
Although the first historical evidence of gender-separation appears as early as the eighth century in Karaite synagogues, the first direct discussion of gender segregation by rabbis appears in the tenth century.
Abu'l-Fazl ibn Mubarak mentions that yatis were invited to participate in the discussion on religions.
A minister has the pastoral responsibility for a congregation, which they exercise under the supervision of the Presbytery.
Mawlana (; from Persian, Arabic: مولانا), also spelled as Molana or Maulana, is a title preceding, mostly in South Asia, the name of respected Muslim religious leaders, in particular graduates of religious institutions, e.g.
Gyurme Dorje defines ngakpa (mantrin) as "a practitioner of the mantras, who may live as a householder rather than a renunciate monk." A ngakpa is thoroughly immersed and engaged in the practice of the teachings under the guidance of a lineage-holder.
The great variation in phonetic transcription of Indian words into Tibetan may partly be the result of various Tibetan dialects.
The term is also used in a generic sense and in this respect is similar to the usage of saint to indicate a morally good person.
One of the most beloved Mahasiddhas is Virūpa, who may be taken as the patron saint of the Sakyapa sect and instituted the Lamdré (Tibetan: lam 'bras) teachings.
Its earliest attested use, for a Shia personage, was during the Qajar period for Muhammad al-Baqir (d.
They have received the esoteric transmissions and empowerments (wang, lung, and thri) and have taken the associated vows (samaya).
Salomon Sulzer's advocacy of the organ Salomon Sulzer (1808–1890) was the legendary oberkantor ('chief cantor') of Vienna.
Soviet-era muftiates Ukrainian muftiates Uzbek muftiates See also Muftiate Grand Mufti Mufti == References ==
For the Twelver Shia, the Mahdi was born but disappeared, and would remain hidden from humanity until he reappears to bring justice to the world in the end of time, a doctrine known as the Occultation.
This is attained through continual recitation and spiritual internalization of God's name (Naam Japo/Naam Simran).
These nine monarchs have authority over religious matters within their own states: therefore, each of these nine states have their own mufti who usually controls the Islamic Council or Islamic Department of the state.
The Chāndogya Upaniṣad, dated to about the 7th century BCE, in verse 8.15.1, has the earliest evidence for the use of the word Ahimsa in the sense familiar in Hinduism (a code of conduct).
Ouvrier, Ashley, "Faire de la recherche médicale en Afrique: Ethnographie d'un village-laboratoire sénégalais." Médecines du monde (Contributors: Wenzel Geissler, Anne-Marie Moulin).
From there, the concept spread to other Muslim states, so that today there are approximately 16 countries with sizable Muslim populations which have a Grand Mufti.
According to Kunzang Dorje Rinpoche, There are two types of ngakpas – those of family lineage (rigs rgyud) and those of Dharma lineage (chos rgyud).
Terminology The Greek term πρεσβύτερος presbýteros, used in the New Testament as a designation for the leaders of the Early Church (e.g.
Elders also often assist the minister in the distribution of the elements at a formal Communion Service.
Sermons, pastoral counseling, and representing the congregation to the community all increased in importance.
Till the second half of twentieth century the AsanKalari or Ezhuthu Kalari or Ezhuthu palli (village schools) were common in each village as it was conducted in many families of Ganaka in Travancore.
The need for having mashgichim within the modern yeshivas was tied in with the rise of the modern musar movement (teaching of Jewish ethics), inspired by the 19th-century rabbi Israel Salanter..
A person under the age of 20 cannot be ordained as a bhikkhu or bhikkhuni but can be ordained as a śrāmaṇera or śrāmaṇērī.
In the Chaurasi temple complex, near which the famous temple of goddess Lakshana (8th century A.D.) stands, there once were eighty-four small shrines, each dedicated to a Siddha.
The Russian North Caucasus muftiates are united into the Coordinating Center of North Caucasus Muslims.
History On 15 October 2007, the Interdenominational Mission of the Prison Ministry in Ukraine (IMPMU), a group consisting of 12 Christian denominations, met to create a seminar for prison missionaries in partnership with the State Department.
Their arrangements are still required study for student cantors and continue to be sung by choirs of all levels.
The Chancellor is generally one of four chief dignitaries in the cathedral chapter, the others being the Dean, the Precentor and the Treasurer.
Greek muftiates Office of the Grand Mufti of India (Barelvism) Office of the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Kazakh muftiates Kosovar muftiates Kyrgyz muftiates Lithuanian muftiates Macedonian muftiates Malaysia Malaysia has a unique system of collective mufti.
Persian-speakers in Central Asia still consider themselves as Khorasanis, particularely Tajiks and Hazaras.
Coordinated by religious leaders and the Ministry of Justice, services are provided for Ukrainian Greek Catholic, Roman Catholic, and Jewish prisoners.
The murshid's role is to spiritually guide and verbally instruct the disciple on the Sufi path, but "only one who has himself reached the End of the path is a spiritual guide in the full sense of the Arabic term murshid".
Christian Kuhn, President of the ICCPPC, represented the position of the Catholic Pastoral Ministry on the religious rights of prisoners at the 12th United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, which took place in Salvador, Brazil.
Christianity Protestantism In Protestant churches, the term "ministry" often implies the service of an ordained minister or pastor.
Many Catholic parishes employ lay ecclesial ministers as "pastoral associates" or "pastoral assistants;" lay people who serve in ministerial or administrative roles, assisting the priest in his work—but who are not ordained clerics.
Murshid (Arabic: مرشد) is Arabic for "guide" or "teacher", derived from the root r-sh-d, with the basic meaning of having integrity, being sensible, mature.
It is reported that drinking sum-sum improves the Saltigue's vision of the future and the supernatural world.
He is viewed as the sole legitimate ruler of the Muslim world and the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran recognizes him as the head of the state.
See also Pir (Sufism) Rōshi Spiritual direction Starets Guru External links Glossary of Muslim Terms Sufi Live Murshid [1] == Notes ==
1531), founder of Shuddhadvaita school of Vedānta Jagadguru as title Traditionally the title Jagadguru is used by all the peetadhipathis of Mathas founded by traditional Jagadgurus such as Adi Shankaracharya, Ramanujacharya, Madhvacharya, Nimbarkacharya, and Vallabhacharya.
Sufi sheiks flourished throughout the Islamic world more than any other type of personal authority because their mediatory skills were required for the smooth functioning of an agrarian-nomadic economy with a decentralized form of government.
However, the Protodeacon still has the privilege of bestowing the pallium on a new pope at his papal inauguration.
When the supervision of monasteries passed to another episcopal official—the Great Sakellarios ("sacristan")—the title of archimandrite became an honorary one for abbots of important monasteries (compared to an ordinary abbot, a hegumenos).
Most scholars view the Torah as projecting the origins of the Levites into the past to explain their role as landless cultic functionaries.
For the last two centuries, it has not been uncommon to adopt this title by many learned people from other castes (Nair, Ezhava, Thiyya, Christian Nadar) as well.
Etymology The word sant is ultimately derived from Sanskrit, Prakrit and Pali, where it serves as the present active participle of the verb "to be" (in Sanskrit: अस्ति; in Pali: atthi).
In the Russian Orthodox Church it is an honorary title given to married deacons, as a mark of which, the clergyman is entitled to wear a burgundy-colored skufia.
They are usually expected to work in viharas, essentially as maids to ordained bhikkhus, while receiving training and the opportunity to practice.
The Vedas themselves prescribe for a young brahmachari to be sent to a Gurukul where the Guru (referred to also as acharya) teaches the pupil the Vedas and Vedangas.
The status of dasa sil matas is in between an ordinary upāsikā (laywoman) and a fully ordained bhikkhuni.
He is known as the shaykh, by way of khilafah: process in which the shaykh identifies one of his disciples as his successor, for the khalifa.
The Eastern Orthodox Church counters this by labelling Pope Nicholas I as a heresiarch due to the filioque in their own council.
In addition to their academic studies, they are also trained through a conference programme and through the "Ministries Trainling Network" in church law exams, public speaking, safeguarding and pastoral care.
The Buddha conceived Karma as a chain of causality leading to attachment to the material world and hence to rebirth.
Contemporary ordination Since the end of classical ordination, other forms of ordination have developed, which use much of the same terminology but have lesser significance in Jewish law.
Śruti sampradaya The guru–shishya tradition plays an important part in the Shruti tradition of Vaidika dharma.
Ministry, including youth ministry, is considered one of the functions within the Church because most believe that people should start learning about God at a young age so they have more time to grow spiritually through adulthood.
In the Dhammapada commentary of Buddhaghoṣa, a bhikkhu is defined as "the person who sees danger (in samsara or cycle of rebirth)" (Pāli: Bhayaṃ ikkhatīti: bhikkhu).
Evans in 1866, the story and legend were stated to be a century old and must have (due to the dimness of detail) been even older than a century even then.
Some work in the world, though they devote significant time to retreat and practice and in enacting rituals when requested by, or on behalf of, members of the community.
"Egalitarian Utopias and Conservative Politics: Veche as a Societal Ideal within Rodnoverie Movement".
The Mahabharata, for example, states that a Shudra who is self-restrained and pure conduct is like a Dvija, and suggests that Shudras can possess Vedic knowledge.
Rambhadracharya, the founder of Tulsi Peeth within the Ramanandi Sampradaya, was conferred the title "Jagadguru Ramanandacharya" by Kashi Vidvat Parishat on 24 June 1988.
According to the book 3 Bowls: Vegetarian Recipes from an American Zen Buddhist Monastery, "While the jikijitsu is the stern father of the zendo, the jisha is the den mother, balancing the strictness that his counterpoint establishes.
At present, the most prominent among them is Ali al-Sistani; who also serves as the head of the Hawza of Najaf.
Rob Preece, in The Wisdom of Imperfection, writes that while the teacher/disciple relationship can be an invaluable and fruitful experience, the process of relating to spiritual teachers also has its hazards.
Disposal of PCP and PCP-contaminated substances are regulated under RCRA as F-listed (F021) or D-listed (D037) hazardous wastes.
It also provides for prohibition of or conditions relating to certain goods from being brought or imported into Australian territory.
Relatively large numbers of studies have been done on tropical coral reefs as the pressure on them has been perceived to be highest.
Government environmental policy The government of Uzbekistan has acknowledged the extent of the country's environmental problems, and it has made a commitment to address them in its Biodiversity Action Plan.
By varying the temperature, the characteristics of the resulting carbonized material, such as the carbon form, composition, and surface chemical functional groups, can be controlled.
The 2023 submission, titled Nivel de Referencia de Emisiones Forestales por la Deforestación del Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia, covers the REDD+ activity “reducing emissions from deforestation” at national scale.
In this framework, tree cover refers to vegetation taller than 5 m (including natural forests and tree plantations), and tree cover loss is defined as the complete removal of tree cover canopy for a given year, regardless of cause.
In particular, hooded seal muscle meat contained 379 μg/g of iron and harp seal muscle meat contained 30 μg/g of zinc.
Synthesis Fenarimol is made by the reaction of 2,4'-dichlorobenzophenone with an organolithium pyrimidine made via bromine-lithium exchange.
This information is, however, essentially presented in a literary style; in the words of Mark Tredinnick: "This is the kind of geography an essayist writes.
It is used as ballast in sailboat keels; its density allows it to take up a small volume and minimize water resistance, thus counterbalancing the heeling effect of wind on the sails.
The southeastern portion of Uzbekistan is characterized by the foothills of the Tian Shan mountains, which rise higher in neighboring Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and form a natural border between Central Asia and China.
Metacritic reports a weighted average score of 76 out of 100 based on 8 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
Long-term exposure to low levels, such as those that occur in the workplace, can cause damage to the liver, kidneys, blood, and nervous system.
A report published by the UNU Institute for Water, Environment and Health in 2026 points out that the terms “water stress” and “water crisis” are no longer adequate to describe the current global water availability situation.
Main sectors, as defined by ISIC standards, include agriculture; forestry and fishing; manufacturing; electricity industry; and services.
Heather Mallick described the book as "the biggest true crime story ever told." The book was one of The Washington Post's 10 best books of 2022 and was shortlisted for the Hilary Weston Writers' Trust Prize for Nonfiction the same year.
Accumulation is not common, but if it does occur, the major sites are the liver, kidneys, plasma protein, spleen, and fat.
Biomagnification of PCP in the food chain is not thought to be significant due to the fairly rapid metabolism of the compound by exposed organisms.
Biosecurity emergencies Chapter 8, Part 2 of the Act deals with "emergencies involving threats or harm to human health on a nationally significant scale".
It won the Best Score/Music Award at the 2011 SXSW Film Festival and was nominated for at the 34th News & Documentary Emmy Awards.
Strategies for sustainable use management Several methodologies have been developed with the intention of minimising the environmental impact of divers on coral reefs Carrying capacity approach, where the number of divers is restricted.
At the end of World War II, many people believed that scientific advancements had the potential to solve various societal problems.
The book "surveys the tortuous process by which the Biological Board of Canada was established in 1912 to supersede a board of management that had overseen a floating biological station off the Atlantic coast since 1898, and permanent stations at St.
These variations in scarcity may also be a function of prevailing economic policy and planning approaches.
Environmental threats and challenges The decline of the delta smelt may have been caused by environmental challenges, both natural and human-derived.
This event is facilitated by Elizabeth Rivers, former commercial lawyer and professional facilitator, and Vicki Elcoate, executive director of UKELA.
These batteries have lower energy density and charge-discharge efficiency than lithium-ion batteries, but are significantly cheaper.
Overshoot: The Ecological Basis of Revolutionary Change is a book by American sociologist William R.
Regional experts assert that salt and dust storms from the Aral Sea have raised the level of particulate matter in the Earth's atmosphere by more than 5%, seriously affecting global climate change.
The idea for Trash, Inc came during the Great Recession and the relative stability of publicly traded waste management companies.
40 of the fertilized embryos were implanted in 20 surrogate rhesus mothers, each carrying two embryos.
The World Bank says that climate change could profoundly alter future patterns of water availability and use.
Eight Alberta municipalities formally expressed concerns about coal mining in the eastern slopes, including Lethbridge, Turner Valley, High Level, Okotoks, and Canmore.
Yet successes have been achieved: the growth of the EEP has been considerable since its initiation in 1985.
In simple terms, the annual loss number is the area where tree cover disappeared in that year, and the extent number shows what remains of the 2000 tree cover baseline after subtracting cumulative loss.
Withdrawals also include water from desalination plants in countries where they are a significant source.
These contaminants can have long-term, sub-lethal effects that reduce the population's resilience to other environmental stressors.
This film focuses solely on environmental pollution in a single village and the devastating effects it has had on the local populous.
With Roosevelt's final public word on the matter, the controversy began to die down in earnest, although its key players continued to comment on the debate's major points for the next few years.
Great Acceleration Catton begins by recounting the story of Russian peasants in 1921 who chose to starve rather than consume the seed wheat needed for future planting.
In 2003, while the factory was state-owned, local residents protested the plant because of its pollution and were attacked and beaten.
We have temporarily increased the planet's ability to support humans, but this has often come at the cost of other species and the depletion of geological reserves.
The country's first national park, Yellowstone, was established in 1872, and by 1900 it had been followed by half a dozen more.
The transducers were temporarily altered for this test to transmit sound at 50 hertz, which is lower than their normal operating frequency.
In fact, the 36 larger plants are in the major cities; however, only nine of them are operational, and the rest of them are under repair.
For each mutant line, groups of seven male and seven female mice move through a standard analysis pipeline aimed at detecting traits that differ from healthy C57BL/6 mice.
Pendimethalin is a selective herbicide of the dinitroaniline class used preëmergently and postemergently to control annual grasses and certain broadleaf weeds.
That is still our position." He also said they were "prepared to apologise for mistakes that had been made but could not apologise until a causal link was proved between the works and the defects...
Trash Inc: The Secret Life of Garbage is a one-hour television documentary film that aired on CNBC on September 29, 2010, about trash/garbage, what happens to it when it's "thrown away", and its impact on the world.
Several factors created or worsened by climate change can be responsible for necessitating managed retreat or the relocation of people and/or infrastructure.
This article lists several areas, regions, and municipalities that have either been completely or markedly depopulated, or are involved in plans for depopulation or relocation due to anthropogenic climate change.
Research has recently shown that beaked and blue whales are sensitive to mid-frequency active sonar and move rapidly away from the source of the sonar, a response that disrupts their feeding and can cause mass strandings.
Scientists also want to try to study and cure other diseases through trans genetics such as Alzheimer's, AIDS, and diabetes.
They also presented a report written by Roger Braithwaite, an environmental expert instructed by the families, which concluded that the negligent handling of the waste by Corby Borough Council demonstrated "naivety, arrogance, ignorance, incompetence and a possible serious conflict of interest...
In November 2006, a conference based on the book was held at the University of Brighton in the UK and organised jointly by UKELA and ELF.
Although the Fergana Valley receives just 100 to 300 millimetres (3.9 to 11.8 in) of rainfall per year, only small patches of desert remain in the center and along ridges on the periphery of the valley.
Government officials and wealthy businessmen have forced their village to be home to several polluting plants, including the largest Jiucailuo Chemical.
The council, which has an annual budget of £12 m, has already spent £1.9 m fighting the case and has now received a bill, as the losing party in the lawsuit, for £4.7 m from the families' solicitor.
This is a literary natural history." In Australia it is considered a landmark environmental publication.
These reefs may be less resilient to other stressors like disease outbreaks and severe weather damage.
The film was premiered at the Mill Valley Film Festival on October 9, 2012, in Mill Valley, California.
In most countries, a significant decrease of dioxin intake has occurred due to stricter controls during the last 20 years.
Foreworded by Thomas Berry, the book was published by Green Books in November 2003 in association with The Gaia Foundation, London.
Ritoma (traditional Chinese:仁多瑪; Simplified Chinese:仁多玛) is a documentary film directed, edited and produced by Oscar-winning filmmaker Ruby Yang.
Small blood pressure increases, particularly in middle-aged and older people, may be apparent and can cause anemia.
Installing spill containment measures prior to a spill can result in significant savings in the event of a spill.
See also Conservation in the United States References External links The Library of Congress - The Evolution of the Conservation Movement, 1850-1920
A legal challenge to the ban was due to be heard in the Federal Court in Sydney on 12 May 2021, part of the challenge was rejected on 10 May.
This resistance mechanism in ryegrass (shared with other dinitroanilines like trifluralin, see for longer explanation) is by an opposing mutation to resistance to prosulfocarb, a thiocarbamate herbicide.
ANDi is the first genetically modified rhesus monkey, who was born at Oregon Health Sciences University (OHSU) on October 1, 2001.
See also International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium SHIRPA References External links The Sanger Mouse Portal, containing all MGP data The MGP Biomart, for extracting phenotypic data
In response, Savage put a pause on coal exploration on Category 2 lands, bowing to the pressure of public opinion until the final report was submitted.
Possible carcinogenic effects At least one study suggests pendimethalin exposure is associated with pancreatic cancer.
POV, Canada's Documentary Magazine review stated: "Sharkwater Extinction is a touching tribute [to late director Rob Stewart] that will inevitably inspire more young minds to carry on Stewart’s mission." The film was nominated for four awards and has won two.
Chromium Primer paint containing hexavalent chromium is still widely used for aerospace and automobile refinishing applications.
Nevertheless, when carbonized at 773 or 873K (500 or 600 °C), the carbonization recovery rate was approximately 12%.
For example, in November 2011, Sumatran tiger Kirana has delivered three cubs at Chester Zoo under EEP which attempts to coordinate breeding between zoos and maintain genetic diversity.
See also All the Fish in the Sea: Maximum Sustainable Yield and the Failure of Fisheries Management by Carmel Finley == References ==
Just the incongruencies in laws can sometimes make exchange of specimens for breeding purposes by two closely situated zoos a formidable task if a border happens to lie between them.
Facing community opposition and personal doubts, Singh works to shut down factories, halt construction of dams, and rouse the Indian public to treat their sacred "Mother Ganga" with respect.
The conference was chaired by former Environment Minister Michael Meacher MP and speakers included Jacqueline McGlade, head of the European Environment Agency and Lynda Warren of the Environment Agency.
Habitat The delta smelt is endemic to the Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta in California, where it is distributed from the Suisun Bay upstream through the delta in Contra Costa, Sacramento, San Joaquin, and Solano Counties.
A local resident details how members of his village are saddened by the transformation and pollution of their home.
Lists Completely depopulated Significantly impacted Gallery See also Climate migration Environmental migrant Extreme event attribution Great Filter Managed retreat List of landmarks destroyed or damaged by climate change == References ==
Manufacturers can also reduce emissions during the creation process by covering materials and tanks to reduce spills and leakage during the blending, mixing, and packaging of the paint.
It controls annual grasses and certain broadleaf weeds which interfere with growth, yield and quality of crops by competing for nutrients, water and light.
Two species were evaluated by the Department of Biology of the University of Bergen and the National Institute of Nutrition and Seafood Research.
The lists contain a general number of the number of people moved or at risk of being moved due to climate change-related causes, as well as rough dates for when programs to relocate were first created or for when a climate disaster first caused significant forcible displacement of a population.
Legislation Techniques for elimination of micropollutants via a so called fourth treatment stage during sewage treatment are implemented in Germany, Switzerland, Sweden and the Netherlands and tests are ongoing in several other countries.
Both in Europe and in U.S.A., the emissions have decreased dramatically since the 1980s, by even 90% (see Figure).
This inspection, alongside tests revealing that the grains were magnetic, led McBride to conclude these grains were pieces of shrapnel.
To create space for these large plantations, large areas have been deforested via slash and burn operations.
This enzyme induction can be initiated by many natural or synthetic compounds, e.g., carcinogenic polycyclic hydrocarbons such as benzo(a)pyrene, several natural compounds, and dioxins.
During its operation a huge quantity of industrial waste, including toxic waste, had been deposited there.
In 1988, the sand on Omaha Beach was discovered to contain man-made metal and glass particles deriving from shrapnel; 4% of the sand in the sample was composed of shrapnel particles ranging in size between 0.06 millimetres (0.0024 in) and 1 mm (0.039 in).
The Great Man-Made River Project, currently under development to transport water from large aquifers under the Sahara Desert to coastal cities, is the world's most extensive water supply project.
Depending on the intensity and technology, some micropollutants are also removed in addition to the bacteria.
Hydrothermal Liquefaction (HTL) is usually conducted at high pressures of 250–500 °C and 50–200 bar or more.
In fact, nonoperational wastewater treatment plants in Tripoli lead to a spill of over 1,275, 000 cubic meters of unprocessed water into the ocean every day.
[See: Hepworth and Ducatel (1992); Whitelegg (1993); Lowe (1994); van der Stoep (1995); Shields (1996); Cox (1997); Adams (1999); Khisty and Zeitler (2001); Gössling et al.
It documents Seddon's struggle to understand the Swan Coastal Plain, a biogeographic region that he initially found harsh and unwelcoming.
Simpson, Milking the Rhino won numerous awards at multiple international film festivals, including Best Documentary at the Pan African Film Festival and San Luis Obispo International Film Festival.
In 2012, it was screened at the International Film Festival of India, Wildscreen Festival in the United Kingdom, St.
Countries participating in the EEP As of 2022, (insert number here) EAZA and non-EAZA/WAZA and non-WAZA countries participate in the EEP program, including: Worldwide counterparts EEP is one of the worldwide assembly of such regional breeding programs in zoos for threatened species.
The Act did not radically change operational functions, but were more clearly described, with the aim of being easier to use and reducing the complexity of administering it.
With regard to the allegations that the council demonstrated a conflict of interest, Wilby stated: "Their motive – to a very considerable degree – was money.
The environmental impact of paint can vary depending on the type of paint used and mitigation measures.
Researchers also discovered trace amounts of iron and glass beads in the sand, originating from the intense heat unleashed by munitions explosions in the air and sand.
Now, having a former college basketball player as their coach enables their passion for basketball to blossom.
See also List of environmental issues Lead-based paint in the United Kingdom Lead-based paint in the United States == References ==
Stuck between the always-growing Western influence that wants Africa to remain a place for sightseeing safaris and their own ancient cultures, the Maasai and Himba are at a crossroads of cultural change.
Andrews, New Brunswick, and Nanaimo, British Columbia, since 1908." Norwegian zoologist Johan Hjort and American ichthyologist David Starr Jordan were both consulted on Canadian fisheries issues in the early period.
a habitable area becoming a wetland), coastal erosion, increased susceptibility to dangerous cyclones, droughts, water shortages, wildfires, and other factors, all of which can overlap with each other to enhance the risk of danger or inhabitability of a formerly populated region.
While many technologies are aimed towards preventing oil spills or towards preparation for the spills, there are also measures that can be quickly implemented.
In April 2021, then minister Savage immediately halted expansions of some exploratory coal mining projects, and restored the 1976 protections, and established the Coal Policy Committee on March 29, 2021, led by Ron Wallace, to make recommendations on the management of the province's coal resources.
The term hypermobility arose around 1980 concerning the flow of capital, and since the early 1990s has also referred to excessive travel.
Frankopan argues that droughts, volcanic eruptions, the Little Ice Age, Medieval Warm Period and contemporary climate change impacted and coincided with societal change, such as the Classic Maya collapse and expansion of the Mongol Empire.
Today, the legally enforceable MCL standard for lindane is 200 ppt, while the national water criterion for lindane is 980 ppt.
In November 2015, Benga submitted an environmental impact assessment to the Alberta Energy Regulator and the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency.
Normally controls are pneumatic eliminating the need to run electrical cables down into the drainage system.
Lost in Reviews called the film "truly moving and engaging" and "one of the better environmental documentaries out there".
With their land being turned into protected game reserves, these ancient tribes have turned to tourism as a means of survival.
Finally, releases to the soil can be by leaching from treated wood products, atmospheric deposition in precipitation (such as rain and snow), spills at industrial facilities, and at hazardous waste sites.
Strategies to prevent solutions being implemented shifted from discrediting science to greenwashing and also included lobbying against government policy to limit emissions.
A significant difference between species was found in the eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) content of both the meat and blubber.
Among these are new discoveries of genes implicated in disease, including finding: Mutation of SLX4 causes a new type of Fanconi anemia.
Of the sources of lead for recycling, lead–acid batteries are the most important; lead pipe, sheet, and cable sheathing are also significant.
In general, both the meat and blubber can be considered to be high quality food in terms of bioactive components and nutrients.
The book is an ecological history of Australia entailing how humans consume the resources they need for their future, and looking at the journey of the Aboriginal Australian people from Africa to the Australian mainland.
It includes information on landforms, climate, geology, soils, flora, the Swan River, the coast, offshore islands, wetlands, and urban areas.
It is named after the Dutch chemist Teunis van der Linden (1884–1965), the first to isolate and describe γ-hexachlorcyclohexane in 1912.
Endangered species in Libya include the Mediterranean monk seal, the leopard, and the slender-horned gazelle.
The book provides an analysis of Canadian fisheries history with the tools of the professional historian, when most earlier works on the topic came from fisheries scientists themselves.
Until recently, climate change and more children attending school has made this long-established practice impossible to continue.
The changes are brought about locally due to the use of cars and motorways, and internationally by aeroplanes.
According to World Bank, ″annual freshwater withdrawals refer to total water withdrawals, not counting evaporation losses from storage basins.
Training has concentrated on an acceptable risk to the diver, and paid less attention to the environment.
Measures can be taken to reduce its environmental effects, including accurately estimating paint quantities so waste is minimized, and use of environmentally preferred paints, coating, painting accessories, and techniques.
Derivatives of this compound are being researched in an open source manner for possible treatment of eumycetoma.
This film mainly explores how Tibetans preserve their disappearing nomadic culture whilst cope with new challenges through basketball.
Adverse reactions A variety of adverse reactions to lindane pharmaceuticals have been reported, ranging from skin irritation to seizures, and, in rare instances, death.
In 2010, Milking the Rhino won the Audience Award (Best Documentary) at the Kansas City International Film Festival.
Widespread Internet use is seen as a contributory factor towards hypermobility due to the increased ease which it enables travel to be desired and organized.
In the 1940s and 1950s, lindane producers stockpiled these isomers in open heaps, which led to ground and water contamination.
Various strategies for environmental management are being tested, in an attempt to achieve a sustainable balance between conservation and commercial exploitation.
It documents the historical formation and cultural foundations of the movement to conserve and protect America's natural heritage, through books, pamphlets, government documents, manuscripts, prints, photographs, and motion picture footage drawn from the collections of the Library of Congress.
Lead abatement programs have been mandated by some authorities in properties where young children live.
Reception Critical response Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports an approval rating of 100% based on 30 reviews, with an average rating of 7.5/10.
Such measures can only be authorised under a human biosecurity control order, made by the Commonwealth Chief Medical Officer or a biosecurity officer in relation to a person who may have a listed human disease (including COVID-19).
Earle McBride, a researcher studying sandstone diagenesis and the textual and compositional maturation of sand during transportation, mixed samples collected from Omaha Beach in 1988 with a blue epoxy, creating an "artificial sandstone", before slicing it into thin sections.
The Earth Transformed: An Untold History is a 2023 non-fiction book by English historian Peter Frankopan.
Necessity of international cooperation in breeding programmes For zoo visitors to have the opportunity to see how wild animals look, live, and behave, zoos must ensure that truly wild animals, with all of their natural characteristics, are presented.
On the other hand, the proliferation of online communication tools as an alternative to in-person meetings has been linked to a 25% decrease in business travel by UK residents from 2000 to 2010.
It works by inhibiting the fungus's biosynthesis of important steroid molecules (via blockade of the CYP51 enzyme).
Invasive species The introduction of non-native species, such as the overbite clam(Potamocorbula amurensis) and Mississippi silverside (Menidia audens), has greatly affected delta smelt survival.
Mid-frequency sonar The term mid-frequency sonar is usually used to refer to sonars that project sound in the 3 to 4 kilohertz (kHz) range.
Environmental issues Water supply Annual rainfall averages only between 200 and 600 millimetres in the most arable portions of Libya.
They expanded the irrigation sector which made it possible to increase food production and development in rural areas.
Climate change (including droughts or floods), deforestation, water pollution and wasteful use of water can also mean there is not enough water.
In letters filed with the Impact Assessment Agency of Canada, Kainai and Siksika stated Montem's consultations to be transactional and not meaningful.
One such chemical is o-Anisidine, a colorless carcinogenic, respiratory, and skin irritant used in dyes.
Early confusion between fin whales and military sonar Before extensive research on whale vocalizations was completed, the low-frequency pulses emitted by some species of whales were often not correctly attributed to them.
Registrative status Pendimethalin is registered globally for a wide range of crops, by the European Commission, US-EPA, Canada-PMRA, Japan, Brazil-ANVISA and others.
Seal meat is the flesh, including the blubber and organs, of seals used as food for humans or other animals.
The book also explores the conflicts between the academic knowledge of biologists and the local and craft knowledge of fishers.
Although wave action had elicited rounding on the edges of some coarser grains, the shard-like angularity and corrosion of both coarse and fine grains suggested these grains were man-made.
Fenarimol, sold under the tradenames Bloc, Rimidin and Rubigan, is a fungicide which acts against rusts, blackspot and mildew fungi.
Besides, they opened a textile workshop that gave young Tibetan women the opportunity to earn income and break through the social stigma that women are homemakers and child-bearers.
Therefore, it is important to separate the effects of low doses causing activation of the receptor around the physiological range from the effects of high toxic doses.
Based at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, the project uses knockout mice most of which were generated by the International Knockout Mouse Consortium.
These data are immediately shared among the scientific and medical research community through a bespoke open access database, and summaries are displayed in other online resources, including the Mouse Genome Informatics database and the Wikipedia-based Gene Wiki.
Therefore we abhor deliberate or reckless untruth in this study as much as in any other; and therefore we feel that a grave wrong is committed by all who, holding a position that entitles them to respect, yet condone and encourage such untruth.
Lipid-soluble compounds are first accumulated to microscopic organisms such as phytoplankton (plankton of plant character, e.g.
Weiss emphasizes Catton's argument that humanity's current consumption patterns are unsustainable, leading to ecological overshoot and future deprivation.
The Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure works with facilities that may leak oil into local rivers, streams, or other bodies of water to prevent said leakage.
Development work in the UK was accelerated because at that time in World War II imports of derris containing the insecticide rotenone were restricted owing to the Japanese occupation of Malaya and alternatives were urgently needed.
Long's books in particular were deemed a "genuine crime", especially against the country's children.
References External links Official site Kartemquin Films Independent Lens Milking the Rhino at IMDb "Milking the Rhino" Official Trailer Jeannie Magill, co-producer of Milking the Rhino, interviewed on Conversations from Penn State
The heavy use of agrochemicals, diversion of huge amounts of irrigation water from the two rivers that feed the region, and the chronic lack of water treatment plants are among the factors that have caused health and environmental problems on an enormous scale.
Sense of place: a response to an environment: the Swan Coastal Plain, Western Australia is a 1972 book by George Seddon.
Scientists are looking to make genetic modifications such as those that would make primates closely mimic human diseases like breast cancer or HIV.
For example, by using an inexpensive iron-based catalyst as a microwave sensor, commercially available ground plastics can be decomposed in just 30–90 seconds, with a high yield of hydrogen gas (55.6 millimoles or 0.112 grams per gram) and multi-layer carbon nanotube carbon residues obtained.
Sharkwater Extinction won two awards in 2019; Best Foreign Documentary Trailer at the Golden Trailer Awards and Best Editing in Documentary at the Canadian Cinema Editors Awards.
These cities are home to nearly 50% of Bolivia's population and have grown rapidly since the 1950's.
In total, they found 229 pesticides and biocides, 175 pharmaceutical chemicals as well as surfactants, plastic and rubber additives, per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) and corrosion inhibitors.
A young mother and native Denè, Deranger struggles with family challenges while campaigning tirelessly against the Tar Sands and its proposed 2,000-mile Keystone XL Pipeline, which are destroying Indigenous communities and threatening an entire continent.
Removal of micropollutants Due to the large number of substances with very different chemical and physical properties, the removal of these substances is difficult.
Catalysts often play a dual role: initially promoting polymer decomposition and later catalyzing the formation of carbon materials.
This GFP gene, which is naturally occurring in jellyfish, was taken from a jellyfish and genetically added to ANDi's DNA sequence through his chromosomes.
References External links Official website Sharkwater Extinction at IMDb Sharkwater Extinction at Rotten Tomatoes
"A 'Wild Law' Response to Climate Change" workshop was held in September 2007 to develop a practical approach for applying Wild Law principles which are already helping shift legal processes in the US and South Africa.
Hunt (Artemis is the Ancient Greek goddess of the hunt), who convinced Navy anti-submarine experts that submarines could be detected at great distances only by unheard-of volumes of low-pitched sound.
As early as 1976, a study was published in which salicylic acid and clofibric acid were detected in the effluent of a sewage treatment plant in Kansas City.
These barriers are effective in relatively level water, however; any significant waves allow contaminants to escape the boom and impact the surrounding environment.
The Evolution of the Conservation Movement, 1850–1920 is an online exhibition from the Library of Congress' American Memory series.
Withdrawals for agriculture and industry are total withdrawals for irrigation and livestock production and for direct industrial use (including withdrawals for cooling thermoelectric plants).
Withdrawals can exceed 100 percent of total renewable resources where extraction from nonrenewable aquifers or desalination plants is considerable or where there is significant water reuse.
Critics argued that the revised rules weakened critical safeguards for species like the delta smelt by prioritizing water deliveries to agriculture over the preservation of essential ecosystems.
Roosevelt not only spoke out against Long, but other authors like Jack London and Roberts, who wrote what he called "'unnatural' history".
The orthopole Given any line l, let P, Q, R be the feet of perpendiculars from the vertices A, B, C of triangle ABC to l.
Application of these two results gives x 4 n ( 1 − x ) 4 n 2 2 n − 2 ( 1 + x 2 ) = ∑ j = 0 2 n − 1 ( − 1 ) j 2 2 n − j − 2 x 4 n + j ( 1 − x ) 4 n − 2 j − 2 − 4 ∑ j = 0 3 n − 1 ( − 1 ) 3 n − j x 2 j + ( − 1 ) 3 n 4 1 + x 2 .
By applying steps 3 to 10 to the other side of the figure, it can be similarly shown that rectangle CKLE must have the same area as square ACIH = AC2.
Since A-K-L is a straight line, parallel to BD, then rectangle BDLK has twice the area of triangle ABD because they share the base BD and have the same altitude BK, i.e., a line normal to their common base, connecting the parallel lines BD and AL.
This yields: a) P = P ′ {\displaystyle P=P'} and b) A 1 B 1 , A 3 B 3 {\displaystyle A_{1}B_{1},\ A_{3}B_{3}} intersect at point P {\displaystyle P} , too.
A full-length Pilish novel has been published, Not A Wake by Mike Keith which currently holds the record of the longest Pilish text with 10,000 digits represented.
The triangle ABC and the cevian triangle A'B'C' are in perspective and let DEF be the axis of perspectivity of the two triangles.
An alternative construction is based on the golden triangle, an isosceles triangle with base angles of 72° and apex angle 36°.
The way the multiple languages of geometry then came back together could be explained by the way subgroups of a symmetry group related to each other.
UNESCO's 40th General Conference designated Pi Day as the International Day of Mathematics in November 2019.
In 1680 he accepted an offer from John III Sobieski, the king of Poland, returning to Poland and taking the position of the king's chaplain, mathematician, clock maker, librarian, and tutor of the king's son, Jakub.
n {\displaystyle (p-1)!^{n}} (since the J i {\displaystyle J_{i}} 's are algebraic integers divisible by ( p − 1 ) !
The fundamental sequence is defined by the third-order recurrence relation S n = 2 S n − 1 + S n − 3 for n > 2 , {\displaystyle S_{n}=2S_{n-1}+S_{n-3}{\text{ for }}n>2,} with initial values S 0 = 1 , S 1 = 2 , S 2 = 4.
Radii are drawn from the centre of the quadrant to the points of division of the arc, and these radii are intersected by the lines drawn parallel to AB and through the corresponding points on the radius DA.
He proved that the lune bounded by the arcs labeled E and F in the figure has the same area as triangle ABO.
1040) showed that where two lunes are formed, on the two sides of a right triangle, whose outer boundaries are semicircles and whose inner boundaries are formed by the circumcircle of the triangle, then the areas of these two lunes added together are equal to the area of the triangle.
{\displaystyle A_{p}\equiv A_{1}{\bmod {p}}.} The converse does not hold, but the small number of odd pseudoprimes n ∣ ( A n − 2 ) {\displaystyle \,n\mid (A_{n}-2)} makes the sequence special.
In Euclidean geometry, the bundle theorem is a statement about six circles and eight points in the Euclidean plane.
The 2014 display was part of an ongoing project, directed by artist ISHKY (Ben Davis), and again involved AirSign Aerial Advertising.
Using this definition, π k {\displaystyle \pi _{k}} is prime when k = 5 , 12 , 281 , 547 {\displaystyle k=5,12,281,547} .
The Chen, Engel and Glotzer result currently stands as the densest known packing of hard, regular tetrahedra.
Leonardo drew the illustrations of the regular solids while he lived with and took mathematics lessons from Pacioli.
Pi Approximation Day is observed on July 22 (22/7 in the day/month date format), since the fraction 22⁄7 is a common approximation of π, which is accurate to two decimal places and dates from Archimedes.
The method also allows for the construction of square roots (see constructible number), since starting with a rectangle that has a width of 1 the constructed square will have a side length that equals the square root of the rectangle's length.
Since the group of affine geometry is a subgroup of the group of projective geometry, any notion invariant in projective geometry is a priori meaningful in affine geometry; but not the other way round.
Subtracting the crescent-shaped area AFBDA from the quarter circle gives triangle ABO and subtracting the same crescent from the semicircle gives the lune.
{\displaystyle f\approx 0.381966.\,} The golden angle g can therefore be numerically approximated in degrees as: g ≈ 360 × 0.381966 ≈ 137.508 ∘ , {\displaystyle g\approx 360\times 0.381966\approx 137.508^{\circ },\,} or in radians as : g ≈ 2 π × 0.381966 ≈ 2.39996.
Where precisely he died is uncertain as well, though modern scholars believe that he eventually expired in Cyzicus.
Generalizations Using a similar proof to the one above, the Arab mathematician Hasan Ibn al-Haytham (Latinized name Alhazen, c.
The independence of the parallel postulate from Euclid's other axioms was finally demonstrated by Eugenio Beltrami in 1868.
Rotoinversions and glide reflections were introduced by Evgraf Fedorov and Arthur Moritz Schoenflies to derive the 230 space groups.
Since both arrangements yield the same triangle, the areas of the square and the rectangle must be identical.
{\displaystyle e^{b\theta _{\mathrm {right} }}=\varphi .} Therefore, b is given by b = ln ⁡ φ θ r i g h t .
As its sine and cosine are transcendental numbers, the golden angle cannot be constructed using a straightedge and compass.
There is a curious statement by Plutarch to the effect that Plato disapproved of Menaechmus achieving his doubled cube solution with the use of mechanical devices; the proof currently known appears to be purely algebraic.
See also Fibonacci sequence Golden angle Golden ratio Golden rectangle List of spirals Logarithmic spiral == References ==
An accurate construction of the quadratrix would also allow the solution of another classical problem known to be impossible with compass and straightedge: trisecting an angle.
A sketch of the method can be found in Naṣīr al-Dīn al-Ṭūsī's Book on the Complete Quadrilateral (c.
Algebraically, let a+b be the circumference of a circle, divided into a longer arc of length a and a smaller arc of length b such that a + b a = a b {\displaystyle {\frac {a+b}{a}}={\frac {a}{b}}} The golden angle is then the angle subtended by the smaller arc of length b.
The 2014 display quickly gained publicity making it the number 2 top trending hashtag on Twitter during the display and within 24 hours it was shared and viewed a little over six million times.
WolframMathWorld has a page titled "Triangle conics" which gives a list of 42 items (not all of them are conics) without giving a definition of triangle conic.
"Derivation of remainder term for the Series expansion of π as depicted in Yukthibhasa and its modern Interpretation".
In 2024, the recreational mathematician Matt Parker and a team of hundreds of volunteers at City of London School spent six days calculating 139 correct digits of pi by hand, in what Parker claimed was "the biggest hand calculation in a century".
It includes information about the mean orbital parameters of the planets, such as the number of mean revolutions per Mahayuga, the longitudinal changes of the orbits, and also includes supporting evidence and calculation methods.
Repeated generations of deflation produce a tiling of the original axiom shape with smaller and smaller tiles.
A third manuscript of the work was found among uncatalogued material in the Archives of the Jewish Museum of Prague in 1965.
A suitable stereographical projection shows that for any ovoidal Möbius plane there exists a plane model.
History Date of composition Moritz Steinschneider dated the Mishnat ha-Middot to between 800 and 1200 CE.
Spirals in nature It is sometimes erroneously stated that spiral galaxies and nautilus shells get wider in the pattern of a golden spiral, and hence are related to both φ and the Fibonacci series.
In his "cut and project method", Penrose tilings are obtained as two-dimensional projections from a five-dimensional cubic structure.
Pilish is a style of constrained writing in which the lengths of consecutive words or sentences match the digits of the number π (pi).
Calculation of these integrals: For all integers k ≥ 0 and ℓ ≥ 2 we have x k ( 1 − x ) ℓ = ( 1 − 2 x + x 2 ) x k ( 1 − x ) ℓ − 2 = ( 1 + x 2 ) x k ( 1 − x ) ℓ − 2 − 2 x k + 1 ( 1 − x ) ℓ − 2 .
Analysis of the pattern shows that it is highly sensitive to the angle separating the individual primordia, with the Fibonacci angle giving the parastichy with optimal packing density.
He gave the first copy with a dedication to the Duke of Milan, Ludovico il Moro; this manuscript is now preserved in Switzerland at the Bibliothèque de Genève in Geneva.
{\displaystyle l(w_{n})=S_{n-2}+S_{n-3}+S_{n-4}.} Associated to this string rewriting process is a compact set composed of self-similar tiles called the Rauzy fractal, that visualizes the combinatorial information contained in a multiple-generation three-letter sequence.
The name "cosine circle" is due to the property of the second Lemoine circle that the lengths of the segments intercepted by the circle on the sides of the triangle proportional to the cosines of the angles opposite to the sides.
The diagrams we use show this construction for an acute angle, but it indeed works for any angle up to 180 degrees.
A little earlier than Kepler, Pedro Nunes wrote about it in 1567, and it is "likely to have been widespread in late medieval and Renaissance manuscript traditions".
He systematically discussed negative and imaginary roots of equations and explicitly used what is now known as Descartes' rule of signs.
On 1 June 1509 the first printed edition was published in Venice by Paganino Paganini; it has since been reprinted several times.
This rectangle can then be partitioned into a square and a similar rectangle and this rectangle can then be split in the same way.
The affine group will be the subgroup respecting (mapping to itself, not fixing pointwise) the chosen hyperplane at infinity.
In geometry, tetrahedron packing is the problem of arranging identical regular tetrahedra throughout three-dimensional space so as to fill the maximum possible fraction of space.
{\displaystyle \theta =\pm 2\arctan \left({\sqrt {\frac {1-C}{1+C}}}\right).} This formula represents four solutions, corresponding to the two choices of the sign of θ, and the two choices for C.
(The reference "Rsine-differences 225" is an allusion to Aryabhata's sine table.) In modern mathematical notations, for an angle x in degrees, this formula gives sin ⁡ x ∘ ≈ 4 x ( 180 − x ) 40500 − x ( 180 − x ) .
One of these students, Johannes Hudde provided a convenient method for determining double roots of a polynomial, known as Hudde's rule, that had been a difficult procedure in Descartes's method of tangents.
Accuracy of the correction terms Let s i = 1 − 1 3 + 1 5 − 1 7 + ⋯ + ( − 1 ) n − 1 1 2 n − 1 + ( − 1 ) n F i ( n ) {\displaystyle s_{i}=1-{\frac {1}{3}}+{\frac {1}{5}}-{\frac {1}{7}}+\cdots +(-1)^{n-1}{\frac {1}{2n-1}}+(-1)^{n}F_{i}(n)} .
It follows that the original angle is trisected by the line PE, and the line PD perpendicular to SE and passing through P.
Each intersection of edges sections the edges in the golden ratio: the ratio of the length of the edge to the longer segment is ⁠ φ {\displaystyle \varphi } ⁠, as is the length of the longer segment to the shorter.
History The lute is named after the ancient Greek mathematician Pythagoras, but its origins are unclear.
{\displaystyle \triangle ABC\sim \triangle BCD.} Therefore, both triangles △ACD, △BCD are similar to △ABC and themselves, i.e.
For a positive integer N, an angle of measure ⁠2π/N⁠ is trisectible if and only if 3 does not divide N.
Complaints by him are made with regard to troubles caused by billeted soldiers with their two wives and a child, who reside at the borg due to the Eighty Years' War.
The first few values are 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4, 5, 5, 5, 6, 6, 6, 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12 (sequence A001462 in the OEIS).
The encircled pentagram (referred to as a pentacle by the plaintiffs) was added to the list of 38 approved religious symbols to be placed on the tombstones of fallen service members at Arlington National Cemetery on 24 April 2007.
Therefore Q is a polynomial with integer coefficients in elementary symmetric polynomials of the above variables, for every i, and in the variables yi.
This subgroup has a known structure (semidirect product of the general linear group of degree n with the subgroup of translations).
Then the ratio a b {\displaystyle {\frac {a}{b}}} corresponds to the golden ratio Φ {\displaystyle \Phi } if and only if the annulus and the ellipse have the same area.
Two concepts that can be used to analyze this triangle, the Pythagorean theorem and the golden ratio, were both of interest to Kepler, as he wrote elsewhere: Geometry has two great treasures: one is the theorem of Pythagoras, the other the division of a line into extreme and mean ratio.
A golden ellipse is an ellipse in which the aspect ratio of its two semi-axes a {\displaystyle a} and b {\displaystyle b} corresponds to the golden ratio.
In programming languages and calculators The following table documents various programming languages that have implemented the circle constant for converting between turns and radians.
He also discovered the law of sines for spherical trigonometry: sin ⁡ A sin ⁡ a = sin ⁡ B sin ⁡ b = sin ⁡ C sin ⁡ c .
Tschirnhaus, which can be used for squaring the circle, the construction of a square with the area of a given circle.
In the latter case, no point on either of the two lines has real coordinates except for the origin [0 : 0 : 1].
He was apparently the only one of the contemporary Poles to know elements of the newly invented calculus.
Quadratrix of Tschirnhaus The quadratrix of Tschirnhaus is constructed by dividing the arc and radius of a quadrant in the same number of equal parts as before.
Therefore, the ratio must be the unique positive solution to this equation, the golden ratio, and the triangle must be a Kepler triangle.
Trattato dell'architettura The second part, Trattato dell'architettura (Treatise on Architecture), discusses the ideas of Vitruvius (from his De architectura) on the application of mathematics to architecture in twenty chapters.
In a paper published in 1990, a group of three Japanese researchers proposed an ingenious method by which Madhava might have obtained the three correction terms.
{\displaystyle 0<\int _{0}^{1}{\frac {x^{4}\left(1-x\right)^{4}}{1+x^{2}}}\,dx={\frac {22}{7}}-\pi .} Therefore, ⁠22/7⁠ > π.
The planes deliberately flew over the headquarters of NASA Ames, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, University of California at Berkeley, Stanford University, Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Apple.
In 1829, Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky published an account of acute geometry in an obscure Russian journal (later re-published in 1840 in German).
Some sources add another pentagram, inscribed within the inner pentagon of the largest pentagram of the figure.
Arabic speakers writing in Greek would often mistakenly assume the other sense of the word was intended, and would translate the phrase back into Arabic using the word for 'bride'.
See also Hindu units of measurement Indian science and technology Adityas References Bibliography Gangooly, Phanindralal (1989).
The negative root is its negative inverse ⁠ − 1 / φ {\displaystyle -1/\varphi } ⁠, with which it shares many properties.
Barrow: Pi in the Sky: Counting, Thinking, and Being ISBN 9780198539568 External links Map showing planned route of aircraft ISHKY website AirSign website
From 1994 to 2012, the fine dining restaurant Schathoes Verhildersum of chef Dick Soek was housed in the building.
History The Kepler triangle is named after the German mathematician and astronomer Johannes Kepler (1571–1630), who wrote about this shape in a 1597 letter.
In addition to the main restriction, the author attempts to mimic portions, or entire works, of different types and pieces of literature ("The Raven", "Jabberwocky", the lyrics of Yes, "The Love Song of J.
τ has been covered in videos by Vi Hart, Numberphile, SciShow, Steve Mould, Khan Academy, and 3Blue1Brown, and it has appeared in the comics xkcd, Saturday Morning Breakfast Cereal, and Sally Forth.
Although known from the time of Proclus, this became known as Playfair's Axiom after John Playfair wrote a famous commentary on Euclid in 1795 in which he proposed replacing Euclid's fifth postulate by his own axiom.
17th century In 1611 Johannes Kepler published Strena Seu de Nive Sexangula (A New Year's Gift of Hexagonal Snow) which is considered the first treatise on geometrical and atomistic crystallography.
The works of James Gregory in the 17th century and Colin Maclaurin in the 18th century were also very influential in the development of trigonometric series.
Application examples you can see in the articles Pentagon with a given side length, Decagon with given circumcircle and Decagon with a given side length.
By the rational root theorem, this root must be ±1, ±⁠1/2⁠, ±⁠1/4⁠ or ±⁠1/8⁠, but none of these is a root.
In mathematics, specifically geometry, Cross's theorem, also known as Vecten's theorem, equates the area of a triangle to the area of each of the triangles formed by squares drawn along its sides.
In this definition we define π k {\displaystyle \pi _{k}} to be the integer formed by the first k {\displaystyle k} digits of the decimal part of pi.
Spherical pentagram A pentagram can be drawn as a star polygon on a sphere, composed of five great circle arcs, whose all internal angles are right angles.
After continuing this process for an arbitrary number of steps, the result will be an almost complete partitioning of the rectangle into squares.
In contrast to Haüy, Weiss took a purely geometric approach to external crystal morphology, completely disregarding any attempt at modelling the internal structure of crystals.
Sarma (1997), "Suryasiddhanta", Encyclopaedia of the History of Science, Technology, and Medicine in Non-Western Cultures edited by Helaine Selin, Springer, ISBN 978-0-7923-4066-9 Yukio Ôhashi (1999).
Adding a segment between the endpoints of these two new edges cuts off a smaller golden triangle, within which the construction can be repeated.
In modern notation, let x y = 1 {\displaystyle xy=1} be a hyperbola, and y = a x 2 + b x + c {\displaystyle y=ax^{2}+bx+c} be a parabola, then their intersections are the solutions to a x 3 + b x 2 + c x = 1 {\displaystyle ax^{3}+bx^{2}+cx=1} .
The 8 odd composite numbers below 108 to pass the test are n = 1155, 552599, 2722611, 4822081, 10479787, 10620331, 16910355, 66342673.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
When radians are used as the unit of angular measure there are τ radians in one full turn of a circle, and the radian angle is aligned with the proportion of a full turn around the circle: ⁠1/8⁠τ rad is an eighth of a turn; ⁠3/4⁠τ rad is three-quarters of a turn.
{\displaystyle 8100a+bx(180-x).} A little experimentation (or by setting up and solving two linear equations in a and b) will yield the values a = 5/4, b = −1/4.
Proofs Proof by rotation Rotate △ A I D {\displaystyle \triangle AID} by a right angle, such that D {\displaystyle D} coincides with B {\displaystyle B} , and let this new triangle be △ A I ′ B {\displaystyle \triangle AI'B} .
The tips of the five loops at the center of the figure have the same geometric relationship to one another as the five vertices, or points, of a pentagram, and each group of five intersections equidistant from the figure's center have the same geometric relationship.
{\displaystyle c^{2}=(a-b)^{2}+4({\tfrac {1}{2}}ab)=(a^{2}-2ab+b^{2})+(2ab)=a^{2}+b^{2}.} See also Hsuan thu == References ==
Since C is collinear with A and G, and this line is parallel to FB, then square BAGF must be twice in area to triangle FBC.
The shortest example is any three-letter word, such as "hat", but many longer examples have been constructed, including sentences, poems, and stories.
It was then displayed again in Austin on March 13, 2014, during the SXSW festival, at which time it was said to be the largest art piece ever displayed in the state of Texas.
Later the theory of correspondences which was an offshoot of the theory of geometric transformations was developed to give coherence to the various isolated results.
However, in the presence of the remaining axioms which give Euclidean geometry, one can be used to prove the other, so they are equivalent in the context of absolute geometry.
Choosing a fixed diameter AB and an arbitrary point P on the circle and dropping the perpendicular PM to AB, we can compute the area of the triangle APB in two ways.
Using this information it was now possible to find a solution to the problem of the duplication of the cube by solving for the points at which two parabolas intersect, a solution equivalent to solving a cubic equation.
Tetrahedra do not tile space, and an upper bound below 100% (namely, 1 − (2.6...)·10−25) has been reported.
{\displaystyle \lim _{n\to \infty }{\frac {F_{n+1}}{F_{n}}}=\lim _{n\to \infty }{\frac {L_{n+1}}{L_{n}}}=\varphi .} In other words, if a Fibonacci and Lucas number is divided by its immediate predecessor in the sequence, the quotient approximates ⁠ φ {\displaystyle \varphi } ⁠.
Among isosceles triangles, the ratio of inradius to side length is maximized for the triangle formed by two reflected copies of the Kepler triangle, sharing the longer of their two legs.
This may be done in several different ways, including matching rules, substitution tiling or finite subdivision rules, cut and project schemes, and coverings.
See also 137 (number) 138 (number) Golden ratio Fibonacci sequence References External links Golden Angle at MathWorld
However, in reality, in 1587, twenty years after the death of Aepke Onsta, it is arranged in the property settlement that not he alone, but he and his sister Hidde Onsta together become owner of the borg Verhildersum.
An ovoid in a 3-dimensional projective space is a set of points, which a) is intersected by lines in 0, 1, or 2 points and b) its tangents at an arbitrary point covers a plane (tangent plane).
These notational devices permit him to describe an association of numbers to lengths of line segments that could be constructed with straightedge and compass.
The first part of Cadaeic Cadenza is slightly changed from an earlier version, "Near a Raven", which was a retelling of Edgar Allan Poe's "The Raven".
In Book I, he established a basis for spherical triangles analogous to the Euclidean basis for plane triangles.
All eight general solutions can be obtained by shrinking and swelling the circles according to the differing internal and external tangencies of each solution; however, different given circles may be shrunk to a point for different solutions.
He listed the six distinct cases of a right-angled triangle in spherical trigonometry, and in his Book on the Complete Quadrilateral, he stated the law of sines for plane and spherical triangles, discovered the law of tangents for spherical triangles, and provided proofs for both these laws.
For example, a1 = 1 says that 1 only occurs once in the sequence, so a2 cannot be 1 too, but it can be 2, and therefore must be 2.
Then the areas of the four triangles △ A B C {\displaystyle \triangle ABC} , △ A I D {\displaystyle \triangle AID} , △ B E F {\displaystyle \triangle BEF} , and △ C G H {\displaystyle \triangle CGH} are equal.
Romanticism By the mid-19th century, a further distinction had developed amongst occultists regarding the pentagram's orientation.
(1997), "Theta functions and transcendence", The Ramanujan Journal, 1 (4): 339–350, doi:10.1023/A:1009749608672, S2CID 118628723 Gelfond, A.O.
Camille Jordan acknowledged Bravais' work on the combination of symmetry elements in his group theory paper Mémoire sur les groupes des mouvements published in 1868–9.
The book was displayed as part of an exhibition in Milan between October 2005 and October 2006 together with the Codex Atlanticus.
He defined axes, planes and centres of inversion as symmetry elements, and identified all of their possible combinations.
[Retain] the first procedure involving division of four times the diameter by the odd numbers, 3, 5, etc.
(2011), The History of Mathematics / An Introduction (7th ed.), McGraw Hill, ISBN 978-0-07-338315-6 Descartes, René (2006) [1637].
Adam Adamandy Kochański IPA: [ˈadam adaˈmandɨ kɔˈxaj̃ski] (5 August 1631 – 17 May 1700) was a Polish mathematician, physicist, clock-maker, pedagogue and librarian.
Shortly afterwards Weierstrass obtained the full result, and further simplifications have been made by several mathematicians, most notably by David Hilbert and Paul Gordan.
References Translated from article on Dutch Wikipedia External links Verhildersum Manor and Estate, official website
This radius can be drawn parallel to the geometric mean constructed as above, which shows that geometric mean is always smaller or equal to the radius, and yields the inequality.
Mathematical Gazette, 79, (1995), page 104 External links Daniel Favre: Golden ratio (Sectio Aurea) in the Elliptical Honeycomb ResearchGate, January 2016 Tadeusz E.
{\displaystyle \lim _{n\rightarrow \infty }N_{n+1}/N_{n}=\psi .} The first 11 indices n for which N n {\displaystyle N_{n}} is prime are n = 3, 4, 8, 9, 11, 16, 21, 25, 81, 6241, 25747 (sequence A170954 in the OEIS).
Textual history In a work called the Pañca-siddhāntikā composed in the sixth century by Varāhamihira, five astronomical treatises are named and summarised: Paulīśa-siddhānta, Romaka-siddhānta, Vasiṣṭha-siddhānta, Sūrya-siddhānta, and Paitāmaha-siddhānta.
1425), the founder of the Kerala school of astronomy and mathematics, that can be used to give a better approximation to the value of the mathematical constant π (pi) than the partial sum approximation obtained by truncating the Madhava–Leibniz infinite series for π.
The best known of his works, Observationes Cyclometricae ad facilitandam Praxin accommodatae, is devoted to the squaring the circle (or alternatively, the quadrature of the circle) and was published in 1685 in the leading scientific periodical of the time, Acta Eruditorum.
Therefore, the areas of triangles △ A B C {\displaystyle \triangle ABC} and △ A I ′ B {\displaystyle \triangle AI'B} are equal.
A further improvement was made in 2009 by Torquato and Jiao, who compressed Chen's structure using a computer algorithm to a packing fraction of 78.2021%.
Pi Day is an annual celebration of the mathematical constant π (pi) with events mostly in the United States.
The two new edges of these two smaller triangles, together with the base of the original golden triangle, form three of the five edges of the polygon.
B-tiles can be related to such A-tiles in two ways: If BS has the same size as AL then BL is an enlarged version φAS of AS, with side lengths (φ, φ, φ2 = 1 + φ) – this decomposes into an AL tile and AS tile joined along a common side of length 1.
The planes containing the cycles c 12 , c 14 , c 24 {\displaystyle c_{12},c_{14},c_{24}} intersect in a point P ′ {\displaystyle P'} .
{\displaystyle {\overline {\mathbf {OP} }}\cdot {\overline {\mathbf {OP^{\prime }} }}=R^{2}.} Thus, if P lies outside the circle, then P' lies within, and vice versa.
In Chapter II, the work introduces concise rules for the measurement of plane figures (§1–4), as well as a few problems in the calculation of volume (§5–12).
According to some authors, a "golden pyramid" with a doubled Kepler triangle as its cross-section accurately describes the design of Egyptian pyramids such as the Great Pyramid of Giza; one source of this theory is a 19th-century misreading of Herodotus by pyramidologist John Taylor.
Recurrence Colin Mallows has given an explicit recurrence relation a ( 1 ) = 1 ; a ( n + 1 ) = 1 + a ( n + 1 − a ( a ( n ) ) ) {\displaystyle a(1)=1;a(n+1)=1+a(n+1-a(a(n)))} .
John Conway noted that Euler's identity is a specific case of the general formula of the nth roots of unity, n√1 = eiτk/n (k = 1, 2, ..., n), which he maintained is preferable and more economical than Euler's identity.
He also provides an analogous approximation for the cosine and extends the technique to second and third-order polynomials.
An asymptotic expression for an is φ 2 − φ n φ − 1 {\displaystyle \varphi ^{2-\varphi }n^{\varphi -1}} where φ {\displaystyle \varphi } is the golden ratio (approximately equal to 1.618034).
The Narayana sequence has a close connection to the Fibonacci and Padovan sequences and plays an important role in data coding, cryptography and combinatorics.
{\displaystyle \cos y\approx {\frac {\pi ^{2}-4y^{2}}{\pi ^{2}+y^{2}}}=1-{\frac {5y^{2}}{\pi ^{2}+y^{2}}}.} To express the previous formula with the constant τ = 2 π , {\displaystyle \tau =2\pi ,} one can use cos ⁡ y ≈ 1 − 20 y 2 4 y 2 + τ 2 .
External links Menaechmus' Constructions (conics) at Convergence O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Menaechmus", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews Article at Encyclopædia Britannica Wolfram.com Biography Fuentes González, Pedro Pablo, “Ménaichmos”, in R.
800 CE) and the proponents of the earlier dating therefore see the Mishnat ha-Middot linking Greek and Islamic mathematics.
This axiom by itself is not logically equivalent to the Euclidean parallel postulate since there are geometries in which one is true and the other is not.
He wrote many scientific papers, mainly on mathematics and mechanics, but also on physics, astronomy and philosophy.
It turns out, however, that the geometries are very closely related, in a way that can be made precise.
Garden The late-nineteenth-century garden shed is the former 'tramhouse' of the Emmaplein in Haren, Groningen.
These packing constructions almost doubled the optimal Bravais-lattice-packing fraction 36.73% obtained by Hoylman.
'Treatise of Measures') is the earliest known Hebrew treatise on geometry, composed of 49 mishnayot in six chapters.
142 857 ¯ , π = 3.141 592 65 … {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\frac {22}{7}}&=3.{\overline {142\,857}},\\\pi \,&=3.141\,592\,65\ldots \end{aligned}}} The approximation has been known since antiquity.
{\displaystyle \Psi =\{(D_{1},D_{2},D_{3},C)\in (\mathbf {P} ^{3})^{4}\colon C{\text{ is tangent to all }}D_{i}\}.} There is a morphism which projects Ψ onto its final factor of P3.
Other curves like the quadratrix and spiral, where only some of whose points could be constructed, were termed mechanical and were not considered suitable for mathematical study.
In Euclidean geometry, the right triangle altitude theorem or geometric mean theorem is a relation between the altitude on the hypotenuse in a right triangle and the two line segments it creates on the hypotenuse.
According to Cromer, the Surya Siddhanta and other Indian texts reflect the primitive state of Greek science, nevertheless played an important part in the history of science, through its translation in Arabic and stimulating the Arabic sciences.
Hutcheson constructed a cylinder from the angle to be trisected by drawing an arc across the angle, completing it as a circle, and constructing from that circle a cylinder on which a, say, equilateral triangle was inscribed (a 360-degree angle divided in three).
Argument ⁠ θ = arcsec ⁡ ( 2 ψ 4 ) {\displaystyle \theta =\operatorname {arcsec}(2\psi ^{4})} ⁠ satisfies the identity ⁠ tan ⁡ ( θ ) − 4 sin ⁡ ( θ ) = 3 3 {\displaystyle \tan(\theta )-4\sin(\theta )=3{\sqrt {3}}} ⁠.
Suppose squares D A B E {\displaystyle DABE} , F B C G {\displaystyle FBCG} , and H C A I {\displaystyle HCAI} are drawn on the outside of △ A B C {\displaystyle \triangle ABC} .
"Über die Ludolph'sche Zahl".", Sitzungsberichte der Königlich Preussischen Akademie der Wissen-schaften zu Berlin, 5: 1067–1085 Further reading Jacobson, Nathan (2009) [1985], Basic Algebra, vol.
Definition Let π n {\displaystyle \pi _{n}} be the integer formed by the first n {\displaystyle n} digits of pi.
Divide the original rectangle into four parts by a second, horizontal cut passing through the intersection point.
This leads to another property of the positive powers of ⁠ φ {\displaystyle \varphi } ⁠: If ⁠ ⌊ 1 2 n − 1 ⌋ = m {\displaystyle {\bigl \lfloor }{\tfrac {1}{2}}n-1{\bigr \rfloor }=m} ⁠, then: φ n = φ n − 1 + φ n − 3 + ⋯ + φ n − 1 − 2 m + φ n − 2 − 2 m φ n − φ n − 1 = φ n − 2 .
It is common to indicate the three different types of pentagonal tiles using three different colors, as in the figure above right.
Supersilver rectangle Given a rectangle of height 1, length ⁠ ς {\displaystyle \varsigma } ⁠ and diagonal length ς ς − 1 .
Hippocrates found two other squarable concave lunes, with angles approximately (107.2°, 160.9°) with ratio 2:3 and (68.5°, 205.6°) with ratio 1:3.
For a similar reason another proposal suggested the Phoenician and Hebrew letter teth, 𐤈 or ט, (from which the letter theta was derived), due to its connection with wheels and circles in ancient cultures.
His proof proceeds by showing that ⁠22/7⁠ is greater than the ratio of the perimeter of a regular polygon with 96 sides to the diameter of a circle it circumscribes.
{\displaystyle \varsigma .} ⁠ With argument τ = ( 1 + Δ ) / 2 {\displaystyle \tau =(1+{\sqrt {\Delta }})/2\,} a generator for the ring of integers of ⁠ K {\displaystyle K} ⁠, the real root j(τ) of the Hilbert class polynomial is given by ( ς − 6 − 27 ς 6 − 6 ) 3 .
Alternative dates Pi Day is frequently observed on March 14 (3/14 in the month/day date format, favoured by the USA), but related celebrations have been held on alternative dates.
WSL has its own method of measuring the height of a wave and has partnered with Guinness World Records to award world record certificates.
Active franchises Regular season Play-in tournament During the 2020 NBA Bubble, the NBA introduced a play-in tournament in the 2019–20 NBA season to compensate for the suspension of the regular season and a difference in the number of games played between teams, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The defunct Portland Fire are the only WNBA franchise to have never qualified for the playoffs, meaning they rank as the team with the fewest playoff games played, wins, and losses (all at 0).
Use of the term "public capacity" indicates that a venue is allowed to hold more people than it can actually seat.
The following is a list of the all-time records for each of the 32 active National Hockey League (NHL) teams, beginning with the first NHL season (1917–18), with regular season stats accurate as of the end the 2024–25 season, and playoff stats accurate as of the end of the 2025 Stanley Cup playoffs.
Active streaks WNBA Playoffs appearance streaks This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons with a playoff appearance.
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) and International Paralympic Committee (IPC) do NOT combine medals of these nations or teams.
Below are some claims of surfed waves that were/are not yet recognized by WSL: Alessandro "Alo" Slebir - On 23 December 2024, Slebir rode an estimated 108 foot (32.9 m) tall wave at Mavericks, California, which would exceed the current world record by over 20 feet.
In mixed doubles, Billie Jean King teamed with Davidson for the last three events of his 1967 Grand Slam and completed the non-consecutive Grand Slam the next year with Dick Crealy.
Field hockey and indoor field hockey Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The teams and individuals which compete in these tournaments may also have competed in qualifying tournaments.
Since then, best times set by swimmers wearing textile materials have once again overtaken more than half of the world records recognized by World Aquatics.
Pythagorean expectation is a sports analytics formula devised by Bill James to estimate the percentage of games a baseball team "should" have won based on the number of runs they scored and allowed.
The two feuded with each other, which culminated in a match at Halloween Havoc for Sid's United States Heavyweight Championship.
Studies in sports management suggest that some managers are able to prolong winning streaks through managerial strategies.
The European Athletics Indoor Cup, held from 2003 to 2008, is the highest level indoor track and field competition to have used a placing table system.
In some cases the official attendance figure released by clubs and/or their league may reflect the ticket sell through rather than the number of people in attendance on the night, this can result in a discrepancy of many thousands of attendees per event.
Existing stadiums, most notably Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton and BC Place in Vancouver, have undergone major upgrades.
WNBA Playoffs series win streaks This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons with a playoff series win.
The recognition of the junior classification and subsequent record keeping began in 1962 for men and 1995 for women.
^6 It was not an official world record, but the best result, equal to the world record until then, and the Asian record in that period.
During the current decade, new stadiums have been constructed for the Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Ottawa Redblacks, and Winnipeg Blue Bombers, all with modern amenities and capacities of between one quarter and one half the capacity of an average NFL stadium.
vs Toronto, Aug 12, 1993)** 586 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Oct 16, 1954)** 582 – Doug Flutie (for B.C.
Hollywood Hogan eventually granted Goldberg a title match, which would take place on the July 6, 1998, episode of Nitro held at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta with over 40,000 in attendance, but Hogan insisted that Goldberg first had to defeat his nWo stablemate Scott Hall.
This system is most commonly found in the sport of athletics: both the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) and European Athletics release placing tables for the major championships they organise.
WNBA championship title droughts a The Dallas Wings last won a championship in the 2008 WNBA Finals as the Detroit Shock.
Rugby union, rugby sevens and rugby league Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Where seating capacity is a legal requirement, however, as it is in movie theatres and on aircraft, the law reflects the fact that the number of people allowed in should not exceed the number who can be seated.
As accurate through the end of the 2025 NBA Finals, the Lakers have the most NBA playoffs games played (787), wins (466), losses (321) and highest playoff winning percentage with 466–321 (.592).
Although not a fan of professional wrestling, he saw it as an alternative to his fledgling football career and began training at the WCW Power Plant.
Regular season Key: Midseason tournaments The following listing does not include qualifying matches and is accurate as of the end of the 2021 regular season.
The purpose was to reduce the number of illegal flat landings, but a side-effect was to reduce the distance travelled.
The following articles list major achievements in team sports and individual sports by nation: Team sport *Sports (and forms of a sport) shown in bold are currently on the program of the Olympic Games.
Presidents' Trophy droughts This is a list of the teams and the number of seasons since they have won the Presidents' Trophy as the regular season champions.
Such calculations are the basis of many of the various tie-breaking systems used in Swiss-system tournaments in chess and other tabletop games.
The Montreal Maroons recorded the most wins (271), while the New York Americans had the most points (637), and the original Ottawa Senators had the highest point percentage (.514).
Computing games behind Games behind is calculated by using either of the following formulas, in which Team A is a leading team, and Team B is a trailing team.
The International Fire Code, portions of which have been adopted by many jurisdictions, is directed more towards the use of a facility than the construction.
In 1998, an online gaming ladder called Clanbase was launched, which used the Elo scoring system to rank teams.
Of the WNBA's eight inaugural teams, four remain active: the Las Vegas Aces, Los Angeles Sparks, New York Liberty, and the Phoenix Mercury.
World records Men * The average speed for the team pursuit race was calculated using a distance of 3098,88 meters for the men's race.
Aside from the WNBA Playoff appearance streaks, this list also includes the WNBA Finals appearance streak and the WNBA championships win streak.
Results See also List of major achievements in sports by nation References Sports123: Inline Hockey (archived) Sports123: Roller Hockey (archived)
FIDE uses the following ranges: FIDE used the following ranges before July 2014: The gradation of the K-factor reduces rating change at the top end of the rating range, reducing the possibility for rapid rise or fall of rating for those with a rating high enough to reach a low K-factor.
** unofficial world best (not recognized as a world record by ISU) Women ** The average speed for the team pursuit race was calculated using a distance of 2324,16 meters for the women's race.
These are (in descending order): FC Barcelona from Spain, Borussia Dortmund from Germany, Bayern München from Germany, Manchester United from the United Kingdom and AC Milan from Italy.
Through the 2001 iteration of the ESPY Awards, ceremonies were conducted in February of each year to honor achievements over the previous calendar year; awards presented thereafter are conferred in June and reflect performance from the June previous.
Also, unlike most other football codes that award three points for a win, the CFL still uses the traditional values of two points for a win and one for a tie.
These records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts.
This was the first noted use of disc wheels, which, along with Moser's skin suit, provided aerodynamic gains.
Field hockey Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
They are the best results set in competition by athletes aged 15 to 20 throughout the entire calendar year of the performance.
Athletes must score at least 7000 points in a decathlon in order to have their performance recognised.
Use The now defunct BCS previously used the SOS in its formula to determine which teams will play in BCS Bowls, and more importantly, to the BCS National Championship Game.
See also List of major achievements in sports by nation Notes References General Official results: Statistics of the International Luge Federation FIL Specific External links International Luge Federation (FIL) – official website
Many gamblers are attracted to sports gambling because of the plethora of information and analytics that are at their disposal when making decisions.
In regards to playoff win–loss records, the Minnesota Lynx have the highest winning percentage, with a 53–35 (.602) record.
During the fourth quarter, having already passed for 555 yards and four scores, Wilson was benched with his team leading 31–8.
Key: Season playoffs The following listing does not include play-in tournaments and is accurate as of the end of the 2021 Overwatch League playoffs.
The Spurs' only regular-season home loss occurred on April 10, 2016, to the Golden State Warriors by the score of 92–86.
This type of event is unknown within European nations, except in basketball; many European domestic leagues in that sport hold an all-star game at roughly the midpoint of the regular season.
There are currently 13 teams that play in the WNBA, and there are also six defunct WNBA teams accounted for in the league's win–loss records.
Artificial and natural track events All competitive disciplines *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
After failing to make progress on K2 the Duke led an attempt on Chogolisa, where they reached a height of approximately 7,500 m (24,600 ft) before turning around just 150 m below the summit due to bad weather and the risk of falling through a cornice in poor visibility.
The 2024-25 NBA regular season featured 20 scorigamis, including a 145–111 win by the Oklahoma City Thunder over the Utah Jazz on April 11, 2025.
Men Women Historical records Men (2018–2025) Men (1998–2018) ^1 The IWF website still lists Nijat Rahimov (Kazakhstan) record of 214 kg in the clean and jerk, which was later disqualified for doping.
Wild card race In the 1994 MLB season, the American League and National League each split into three divisions, and each added a wild card team to the playoffs.
Actually, there is a probability of a draw that is dependent on the performance differential, so this latter is more of a confidence interval than any deterministic frontier.
Bois and other media observers noted the tendency of the Seattle Seahawks under former head coach Pete Carroll to create scorigamis; Bois dubbed Carroll "the wizard of modern Scorigami, without question".
Many of them played in the NHL eras between the ceasing of the National Hockey Association in 1918 and the beginning of the NHL's Original Six era.
Now, pitchers can study the upcoming lineup they are going to face and focus on tendencies of the batter, such as where they stand on the plate, what pitches they tend to chase, and what part of the field they like to hit.
For players with ratings below 2000, winning a cash prize of $2,000 or more raises that player's rating floor to the closest 100-point level that would have disqualified the player for participation in the tournament.
Conversely, the Cleveland Cavaliers, Los Angeles Clippers, Charlotte Hornets and San Antonio Spurs have the worst NBA play-in tournament record, having each lost both of their two games.
Two other Broncos Super Bowl losses, Super Bowl XXI (39–20 to the Giants) and Super Bowl XXIV (55–10 to the 49ers), are also examples of the concept.
In sports, a scorigami (a portmanteau of score and origami) is a final score that has never happened before in a sport or league's history.
First-order wins, based on pure run differential, are the number of expected wins generated by the "pythagenport" formula (see above).
In motion picture venues, the "limit of seating capacity is determined by the maximal viewing distance for a given size of screen", with image quality for closer viewers declining as the screen is expanded to accommodate more distant viewers.
Last time that all Canadian teams qualified for the playoffs: 1985–86 Last time that no Canadian teams qualified for the playoffs: 2015–16 Last all-Canadian first-round series: 2024–25 (Toronto vs.
The 2018 and 2019 seasons contained four and three stage playoffs (midseason tournaments), respectively, throughout the regular season.
British cyclist Joss Lowden set a new world record on 30 September 2021 with a distance of 48.405 km (30.077 mi), beating the previous record by just under 400 metres, and also surpassing Jeannie Longo's Best Human Effort distance.
The NCAA championships listed here are all composed of several separate conferences with varying attendance levels.
In that time, at least a further eleven players matched the feat of scoring a try for England before William Hutchinson scored his second try of the match and his career in the eleventh England match on 5 February 1877.
†Sports (and forms of a sport) shown in italic are currently on the program of the Paralympic Games.
Many of the world records in swimming were established by swimmers wearing bodysuits or suits made of polyurethane or other non-textile materials allowed in the race pool from February 2008 until December 2009.
Indoor handball, beach handball and field handball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Beach handball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Netball Commonwealth Bank Trophy The Commonwealth Bank Trophy was the main national netball competition in Australia from 1997 to 2007.
On the eve of the 2009 FINA World Championships in Rome, the international governing body for five Olympic aquatic sports voted to ban the use of bodysuits and all suits made of non-textile materials starting 1 January 2010.
This limited scheduling makes strength of schedule a relevant metric for breaking ties, if primary tiebreakers such as head-to-head records do not break a tie.
Active and all-time National Hockey League (NHL) franchise post-season appearance, post-season series win, Stanley Cup Final and Stanley Cup droughts up to and including the 2025 Stanley Cup playoffs, are listed below.
A typical system awards a decreasing number of points for the top eight finishers, with eight points for first place, down to one point for eighth place.
Another advantage is that placing tables are less affected by post-competition doping disqualifications, as reassignment of a points score is a simple technical adjustment compared to the minting and re-presentation of physical medals.
With the exception of the Arizona Coyotes, all now defunct NHL franchises folded prior to the advent of the NHL's overtime loss feature.
This is a list of Canadian Football League regular season records that stand as of the end of the 2025 CFL season.
The tries scored in this match brought both players to six apiece, but as to which of these players reached that mark first is unclear.
World Aquatics recognizes world records in the following events for both men and women, except for the mixed relays, where teams consist of two men and two women, in any order.
Early years The progression begins with Reg Birkett's try, scored in the first international rugby match of any code in 1871 when England succumbed to Scotland at Raeburn Place.
Aside from the best results achieved at the world championships for each variation, also included are results from the World Games and the World Roller Games.
Unbeaten streaks are still considered significant achievements and their length may be compared directly to winning streaks.
The fact that accurate formulas for variable exponents yield larger exponents as the total runs per game increases is thus in agreement with an understanding of the role that chance plays in sports.
Playoffs The Stanley Cup playoffs predate the National Hockey League's founding, and thus for the purpose of this listing, playoffs win–loss records prior to the 1918 Stanley Cup playoffs, which ended the 1917–18 NHL season, are not accounted for.
Then, the winner of the 9th-10th place team plays on the road, visiting the loser of the 7th-8th place matchup.
1 includes 17 seasons for Winnipeg Jets (1979–80 through 1995–96) + 27 seasons for Phoenix/Arizona Coyotes (1996–97 through 2023–24) 2 The team was inactive at the start of the 2024–25 NHL season.
Results For the making of these lists, results from following major international tournaments were consulted: FIH: International Hockey Federation IOC: International Olympic Committee IWGA: International World Games Association Medals for the demonstration events are NOT counted.
Canadian Football League attendance has averaged over 20,000 spectators per game in every season since 1963.
Progression of home field attendance record Highest and lowest attendance by season Largest crowds at a World Series game Notes == References ==
Leagues in these sports typically rank teams by awarding a certain number of points for each win or tie.
Active droughts WNBA Playoffs appearance droughts This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons without playoff appearances.
Despite the record being but a single try, Birkett's mark of one try for England stood for almost six years, although this equated at the time to just ten matches.
The skaters only utilize the inner lane and the lap distance is accordingly less than the 400 meters of a regular lap skated with one inner curve and one outer curve.
This is a list of Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) franchise post-season appearance streaks.
However, NBA win–loss record do not include the wins and losses recorded during a team's playing time in the American Basketball Association (ABA), despite the 1976 ABA–NBA merger.
13, 1992 (OT)) 556 – Doug Flutie (for Calgary vs Ottawa, Aug 6, 1993) 555 – Warren Moon (for Edmonton vs Montreal, Oct 15, 1983) 553 – Peter Liske (for Calgary vs Saskatchewan, Sept.
The times shown below are the fastest in the world set by swimmers wearing suits made of textile materials.
If chance plays very little role, then a team with only slightly higher quality than its opponents will win much more often than it loses.
The following year saw the first all-female team to visit the Himalayas, made up of Monica Jackson, Evelyn McNicol and Elizabeth "Betty" Stark, making the first ascent of Gyalgen Peak, 6,151 m (20,180 ft).
Meanwhile, the Charlotte Sting have the lowest all-time playoff win–loss record, at 6–13 (.316), when considering defunct franchises.
vs Edmonton, Oct 12, 1991) 561 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Sept 29, 1956) 558 – Kent Austin (for Saskatchewan vs B.C., Aug.
The conventions used on this table are M for men's singles event, MSp for men's sprint event, W for women's singles event, WSp for women's sprint event, D for doubles event, DSp for doubles' sprint event, T for mixed team event.
Various media outlets produce their own figures and sometimes these do not agree, but the differences in the averages given are usually no more than one or two percent.
WNBA championships win streaks Championship streaks up to and including the 2025 WNBA playoffs See also List of NBA franchise post-season streaks List of NFL franchise post-season streaks List of MLB franchise postseason streaks Basketball portal == References ==
Men For the men's 4x50m freestyle relay, the fastest time ever recorded (1:20.77 by France in 2008) is not the official world record.
Aside from the WNBA Playoff appearance droughts, this list also includes appearances in the WNBA Finals and WNBA championships win streak.
Division championship droughts This is a list of the teams and the number of seasons since they have won the Division championship.
But later on 13 March 2014 FINA has officially ratified the eight world records set by Indiana University swimmers at the IU Relay Rally held on 26 September 2013 in Bloomington.
In 2013, the Dutch wheelchair tennis player Esther Vergeer retired with an active 10-year-long winning streak of 470 matches, including a streak of 250 consecutive sets won.
On October 13, 2023, Vittoria Bussi set the world record again, at the Velodromo Bicentenario in Mexico, with a 50.267 km distance.
Though they had a 24–0 advantage at halftime, Houston scored 11 touchdowns in the second half – including 7 in the fourth quarter – for an astounding 94-point blowout.
In road events, the start and finish points of a course, measured along a theoretical straight line between them, shall not be further apart than 50% of the race distance.
Together with Matthias Zurbriggen and Charles Granville Bruce, Conway made an attempt on Baltoro Kangri and on 25 August reached a subsidiary summit which he named Pioneer Peak.
See also List of WNBA franchise post-season streaks List of NBA franchise postseason droughts Basketball portal == References ==
Artificial track events All competitive disciplines *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
In addition, to further filter out the distortions of luck, Sabermetricians can also calculate a team's expected runs scored and allowed via a runs created-type equation (the most accurate at the team level being Base Runs).
Top 20 head coaches by regular season wins See also List of professional gridiron football coaches with 200 wins References External links 2024 CFL Guide & Record Book
Chart Party: Scorigami, or the story of every NFL final score that has ever happened, a 2016 article.
See also Magic number (sports), the number of wins needed to clinch a championship Notes References Further reading GB glossary entry at Baseball Prospectus
At the same time, baseball fans and sports media had begun to adopt sports analytics as a way to understand and report the game.
In the Himalaya yaks have been reported at heights of up to 6,100 m (20,000 ft) and the summer snow line can be as high as 6,500 m (21,300 ft).
The French performance is still recognized as the European record, while the official world record is held by the United States.
As a result, A&M entered the rematch the following year as heavy favorites, with the game scheduled the week before their highly anticipated showdown against Oklahoma.
The table below lists domestic professional sports leagues from around the world by total attendances for the last completed season for which data is available.
Oklahoma On November 8, 2003, the Oklahoma Sooners showed little mercy against the Texas A&M Aggies, cruising to a 49–0 halftime lead.
These criteria also apply to national or other restricted records and also to performances submitted as qualifying marks for eligibility to compete in major events such as the Olympic Games.
McNamara has said in a 2013 interview he never claimed the wave to be 100 feet, but said the wave definitely felt bigger than the previous record.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch, clean and jerk, and total for both lifts by the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF).
On 14 January 1897, Matthias Zurbriggen went on to make the first recorded ascent of Aconcagua in the Andes.
A player's batting average is determined by dividing the number of hits by the number of at bats for that player.
Major League Baseball (MLB) has a more extreme way of scheduling since interleague games are done rarely, and were only introduced in 1997, plus the fact that interleague games do not exactly have concrete rules, save for the number of rest days and doubleheaders.
The objective is not to create combined medal tables; the focus is on listing the best positions achieved by teams in major international tournaments, ranking the nations according to the most podiums accomplished by teams of these nations.
Performance is better at these high altitudes because the lower oxygen levels are compensated by the reduced air resistance.
Leagues with a promotion and relegation system include teams based on their performance in the previous season.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international rugby union, rugby sevens, rugby league and wheelchair rugby tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Five head coaches share the record for Grey Cup championships at five: Wally Buono, Don Matthews, Frank Clair, Hugh Campbell, and Lew Hayman.
other North American professional sports leagues The following table compares the CFL regular season average attendance against the regular-season average attendance for the other professional sports leagues in North America with average attendance of at least 10,000 spectators per game.
See also Losing streak Perfect season List of unbeaten football club seasons Bagel (tennis) == References ==
Individual sport *Sports (and classes, disciplines or forms of a sport) shown in bold are currently on the program of the Olympic Games.
Medals earned by athletes from defunct NOCs or historical teams have been merged with the results achieved by their immediate successor states, as follows: Czech Republic inherits medals from Czechoslovakia and Germany inherits medals from West Germany.
The international judge ruled against the idea, and a scuffle ensued that involved Anquetil's manager, Raphaël Géminiani.
This is a list of countries according to the best position achieved by athletes of these nations at major world tournaments in roller hockey.
Wally Buono is the all-time leader in both wins and losses with 282 wins, 165 losses, and three ties.
In 1968, Ole Ritter broke the record in Mexico City, the first attempt at altitude since Willie Hamilton in 1898.
The tables are pre-sorted by total number of first-place results, second-place results and third-place results, then most first-place results, second-place results, respectively.
This article involves the historical statistics of the National Games of China, starting with the first edition of the event hosted in 1959 by Beijing at Workers' Stadium.
This contrasts with leagues such as Super Rugby and the URC, which operate in multiple countries with more than one team in most (Super Rugby) or all (URC) of their participating countries, and also make no pretense of being a championship for a continental-size region.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international luge tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Results For the making of these lists, results from following major international tournaments were consulted: IOC: International Olympic Committee IPC: International Paralympic Committee RLIF: Rugby League International Federation WR: World Rugby Medals for the demonstration events are NOT counted.
They successfully defeated France four times, Australia three times, South Africa and Argentina twice and also beat Japan, England and Ireland in their incredible winning run.
†Sports (and classes, disciplines or forms of a sport) shown in italic are currently on the program of the Paralympic Games.
^5 The IWF website still lists Tatiana Kachirina's records of 155 kg in the snatch, 193 kg in the clean and jerk and 348 kg in total, who was later disqualified for doping.
Elo's original suggestion, which is still widely used, was a simple linear adjustment proportional to the amount by which a player over-performed or under-performed their expected score.
This list of speed skating records is an overview of the records currently held in various speed skating events, as ratified by the International Skating Union.
These statistics track each shot a player takes in tournament play, collecting information on how far the ball travels and exactly where each shot is played from and where it finishes.
^3 The IWF website stil lists Hripsime Khurshudyan's (Armenia) record of 160 kg in the clean and jerk, which was later disqualified for doping.
A winning streak, also known as a win streak or hot streak, is an uninterrupted sequence of success in games or competitions, commonly measured by at least three wins that are uninterrupted by losses or ties.
Results achieved in youth, junior or U20 events were not considered for the making of this table, neither were para adaptations of hockey (power hockey).
This article gives the summarized standings of each season of SailGP, an international sailing competition that features high-performance F50 foiling catamarans.
The teams which compete in these tournaments also compete in the domestic competitions in their home countries.
Medals earned by athletes from defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are NOT merged with the results achieved by their immediate successor states.
This list also includes coaches who coached in the CFL's predecessor leagues, the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union (CFL East Division) and the Western Interprovincial Football Union (CFL West Division).
== Largest (measured) waves surfed == Other claims There are various ways to measure the height of a wave.
Venues that may be leased for private functions such as ballrooms and auditoriums generally advertise their seating capacity.
League records Single game records Season records Team records BC Lions Calgary Stampeders Edmonton Elks/ Edmonton Eskimos Hamilton Tiger-Cats Ottawa Rough Riders / Renegades / Redblacks Montreal Alouettes Saskatchewan Roughriders Toronto Argonauts Winnipeg Blue Bombers CFL attendance vs.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international field hockey and indoor field hockey tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Medals earned by athletes from defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are NOT merged with the results achieved by their immediate successor states.
The world records in swimming are ratified by World Aquatics (formerly known as FINA), the international governing body of swimming.
Andrew Cotton - In January 2014, Cotton, was towed into an estimated 80-foot (24.3 meters) wave at Praia do Norte.
WNBA Finals appearance droughts a The Dallas Wings last appeared in the 2008 WNBA Finals as the Detroit Shock.
Training under the tutelage of DeWayne Bruce, he made his debut as Bill Gold on a dark match at a Monday Nitro event on June 23, 1997, where he defeated Bruce (wrestling as Sgt.
In the National Football League (NFL), the strength of schedule (SOS) is the combined record of all teams in a schedule, and the strength of victory (SOV) is the combined record of all teams that were beaten in that schedule.
These suits seemed to improve the performance for top athletes, especially those with larger physiques.
The Pro Football Hall of Fame cites the Bulldogs’ dominance as one of the key factors in the AFL's demise, and as an independent team the next season, the Bulldogs finished with a 10–2–2 record, including a 2–1–2 record against NFL teams.
In light of similar incidents, coaches are often accused of running up the score and taking the opportunity to humiliate and embarrass a weak opponent.
How did he get this many wins in such a short time'?" This exaggeration damaged the streak's credibility among the WCW audience; upon noticing that the figure had been falsified, fans began to withdraw homemade signs trumpeting Goldberg's record.
A small-scale version of a placing table is found in cross country running, where the team standing of a single race is decided by the aggregate placings of each team's athletes.
World records World Athletics (then IAAF) commenced the recognition of world records in 1912, and indoor world records after 1987.
For the third time, England was fielding a pairing of prolific try scorers, and alongside Hudson was John Birkett.
The listing ranks the OWL teams based on their winning percentage during midseason tournament matches.
The following is a listing of all 20 current Overwatch League (OWL) teams ranked by win–loss record percentage (winning percentage), accurate as of the end of the 2021 season.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international indoor handball, beach handball and field handball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
As of the end of the 2025 CFL season, the active head coach with the most wins is Mike O'Shea, who has 117 wins and 77 losses.
