In 2009 in the Spiegel, the largest weekly news magazine in Europe, Karen Duve described the manifesto as "astute and highly relevant for current affairs".
In 2009, Hemant Mehta at The Friendly Atheist ranked Christina's blog in the Top Ten most popular atheist blogs.
What worries thoughtful theologians such as Bonhoeffer is that gaps shrink as science advances, and God is threatened with eventually having nothing to do and nowhere to hide.
He has been awarded the Presidential Faculty Fellows Award from the White House and the National Science Foundation.
The themes of the first two prizes are the reduction of inappropriate antibiotic use, and enhancing the safety and independence of dementia sufferers.
He has taught evolutionary biology, speciation, genetic analysis, social issues and scientific knowledge, scientific speaking and writing.
Onfray is often regarded as being left-wing; however, some observers have stated that he has right-wing tendencies.
Freedom from Religion Foundation He is the current co-president with his wife Annie Laurie Gaylor of the Freedom from Religion Foundation, an American freethought organization that promotes the separation of church and state.
In 2012, he pioneered the use of concepts from information theory as a measure of complexity in nature.
National Academy of Sciences rescinded Ayala's membership for violation of Section 4 of the NAS Code of Conduct, effective June 23, 2021.
A review in The Times praised the book as a "powerful counter-blast against the monstrous regiment of 'useful idiots'".
Career He holds law degrees from the University of London (LLB) and UCD (LLM) as well as a primary degree in philosophy from University College Cork, an MA and PhD from the University of Notre Dame and the higher doctorate, DLitt, from the National University of Ireland.
There is nothing more; but I want nothing more." Hitchens dedicated the anthology to the memory of Primo Levi and prefaces the book with quotes from Levi's If This Is a Man and The Drowned and the Saved.
His philosophy is mainly influenced by such thinkers as Nietzsche, Epicurus, the Cynic and Cyrenaic schools, as well as French materialism.
The Pantheon of Skeptics was created by CSI to remember the legacy of deceased fellows of CSI and their contributions to the cause of scientific skepticism.
He wrote that one can "think of DNA as an instructional script, a software program, sitting in the nucleus of the cell." He appeared on The Colbert Report and on Fresh Air radio to discuss his book.
coli long term evolution experiment, and examples seen in the wild, such as Peter and Rosemary Grant's study of Darwin's finches in the Galápagos Islands.
Boghossian was Chairman of the Prison Advisory Committee for the Columbia River Correctional Institution.
Its success has been seen by many as indicative of a change in the contemporary cultural zeitgeist and has also been identified with the rise of New Atheism.
Science blogger PZ Myers condemned these posts and went on to debate many of Kirk's past claims about feminism, writing that "this kind of thing has always been part of his YouTube schtick." After the incident, Kirk apologized to the Reddit user in a private message and later made a public apology.
As a speaker, she is a member of the Speakers Bureau for the Secular Student Alliance and the Center for Inquiry.
A professor emeritus of ecology and evolution at the University of Chicago, he has published on the theory of evolution.
Stenger who argues that there is no evidence for the existence of a deity and that God's existence, while not impossible, is improbable.
Making secular views and people welcome in politics and policy-making will advance human safety, security, health, achievement, prosperity and most of all, science."The organization began accepting members in April 2015.
Overcome any tendency towards tradition blindness by informing yourself in depth from all sides before making a decision!
an atheist or antitheist) could not possibly perform, and conversely, to name one immoral action that only a person with a faith could perform or has performed in the past.
Celestial Teapots suggests that the comparison with Russell's teapot is misplaced because Cornwell claims there are prima facie, albeit inconclusive, grounds for believing in God.
[whose] extended essay covers some similar ground to the others, notably in analysing the extent of Dawkins's ignorance of theology.
His doctoral students have included Roger Blandford, Craig Hogan, Nick Kaiser Priyamvada Natarajan, and James E.
In 2011, he debated with Stephen Law on the topic 'Why Won't God Go Away?' He was interviewed by Richard Dawkins about his book Dawkins' God and faith in general for the television documentary The Root of All Evil?
The modern atheist movement has three bodies of thought, according to LeDrew: scientific atheism, the view that religion is opposed to scientific truth; secular humanism; and libertarianism combined with rationalism.
The book explores what Hart identifies as historical and popular misconceptions of Christianity's detractors, with early material in the book being especially critical of New Atheism.
In 2017 Breitbart, CPAC and Simon & Schuster severed their ties with Yiannopoulos based on comments from the episode where Yiannopoulos spoke positively of sexual relationships between boys and adult men.
Raised on a small farm in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley, Collins was home schooled until the sixth grade.
He talks about the need to sustain "moral communities", a venture in which he feels that the separate religious moral identities of the "saved" and the "damned" can play no part.
Christina writes that she has struggled with depression off and on throughout most of her adult life, and considers herself chronically depressed and expects to take antidepressants for the rest of her life.
He was a member of the School of Philosophy in University College Dublin (UCD) (Head from 2001 to 2006) from 1986 until he retired in December 2015.
On May 27, 2020, Hedges announced that he would run as a Green Party candidate in New Jersey's 12th congressional district for the 2020 elections.
Abandoning a New Atheist movement "in terminal decline" for a new vehicle, "she remains on the same crusade, inveighing against Islam and having simply exchanged one banner for another".
Several aspects of both "Go God Go" and "Go God Go XII" pay homage to Buck Rogers in the 25th Century, a science fiction adventure television series produced by Universal Studios.
Richards) (2004) ISBN 0521815169 The Evolution-Creation Struggle (2005) ISBN 0-674-01687-4 Darwinism and its Discontents (2006) ISBN 0-521-82947-X Cambridge Companion to the Origin of Species (edited with Robert J.
In Chapter 6, Hitchens recalls being a foreign correspondent in the Soviet Union and a trip to Mogadishu, and how these experiences convinced him that, "his own civilisation was infinitely precious and utterly vulnerable".
Writing in The Verge, Adi Robertson stated that RationalWiki provided a good explanation of Time Cube, though conveying the "full impression" of the original Time Cube website was all but impossible.
Creation Museum visit Myers's engagement as keynote speaker at the 2009 Secular Student Alliance Conference in Columbus, Ohio, developed into an August 7, 2009, trip, in which 304 attendees visited the nearby Creation Museum in Petersburg, Kentucky.
Harris considers the variety of religions in the world, citing a religious basis for many ethnic and inter-communal conflicts.
Lindsay has written several books including Cynical Theories (2020), which he co-authored with Pluckrose.
Publications Musicals Mary Had a Little Lamb (Manna Music 1977) His Fleece Was White as Snow (Manna Music 1978) Books Barker, Dan (1990).
He also contributed a foreword to white supremacist commentator Stefan Molyneux's book Against the Gods.
"From Here to Mullahcracy", in Lila Azam Zanganeh (ed.), My Sister, Guard Your Veil; My Brother, Guard Your Eyes: Uncensored Iranian Voices, Beacon Press, 2006.
According to Armstrong, "My aim in this book is simply to bring something fresh to the table." References Sources Armstrong, Karen (2009).
The BMJ, while supporting the authors' assessment of the problem, was critical of the proposed solution.
Academic reviewers had praised the hoax studies of Lindsay, Boghossian, and Pluckrose as "a rich and exciting contribution to the study of ...
However, they had essentially forced themselves to create another episode, which they partially disliked because it meant they'd have to write more material concerning atheism when they felt they had done enough.
He describes himself as Catholic in religion, conservative in social matters, and libertarian in political matters.
Non-theists deserve a seat at the table just as theists do; the rally should put secular values "on the radar" of American voters.
This combination of high-level technical ability and highly naïve child-like beliefs could have disastrous consequences in the long run.
In July 2013, the RationalWiki Foundation changed its name to the RationalMedia Foundation, stating that its aims extended beyond the RationalWiki site alone.
Dawkins finds the pupils rote learning biblical stories, which are integrated into various academic subjects.
Dawkins describes his foundation's purpose this way:"Critical thinking is the real saviour of humankind.
Jonah Goldberg, writing in the National Review, said the "label is a bit overwrought", writing that it struck him "as a marketing label – and not necessarily a good one.
Kenneth Krause gave it a mixed to negative review in The Humanist criticizing the lack of an explanation of "how we can interest and invest the popular media in the serious science their viewers and subscribers have so evidently rejected" while characterizing the book with Chicken Little analogies.
In his book The Cameron Delusion Hitchens argues that in the last few decades, the Conservative Party has become virtually "indistinguishable from Blairite New Labour".
Honours and awards He has been president of the Royal Astronomical Society (1992–94) and the British Science Association (1995–96), and was a Member of Council of the Royal Institution of Great Britain until 2010.
Humanism Hutchinson subscribes to a radical humanist vision that eschews religious and social hierarchies of race, gender, sexuality, class, and ability status because they undermine the universal human rights, bodily autonomy, and self-determination of Black and BIPOC peoples.
She also suggested that both books are part of a modern debate that is suffering from the fact that the two sides do not concentrate on one definition of religion.
and Dawkins' God) argues that Dawkins is ignorant of Christian theology, and therefore unable to engage religion and faith intelligently.
Although Cartman successfully uses the Time Phone to call several people in the past including himself, they all hang up on him, and thus the attempt to prevent his do-it-yourself cryonics experiment fails.
Religion and morality The second half of the book begins by exploring the roots of religion and seeking an explanation for its ubiquity across human cultures.
To rectify this, large portions of the episodes that more reflected Parker and Stone's personal opinions were removed and replaced with less serious material.
In that vein, he says that science practices methodological naturalism, although it does not rule out the supernatural (i.e.
Cynical Theories (2020) Conspiracy theory promotion Lindsay has promoted several conspiracy theories.
Goldstein has written two biographical studies: Incompleteness: The Proof and Paradox of Kurt Gödel (2005); and Betraying Spinoza: The Renegade Jew Who Gave Us Modernity (2006).
In 2015, Christina received the first Secular Student Alliance Ambassador Award, which was the 2015 Secular Student Alliance Ambassador Award.
Stenger was born on January 29, 1935, and raised in a working-class neighborhood of Bayonne, New Jersey.
He cited American journalist Glenn Greenwald's comments on the Charlie Hebdo shooting as an example.
As a proponent of New Atheism, he is often cited with atheists such as Richard Dawkins and Sam Harris.
So the acceptability of axioms for modal logic depends on which of these uses we have in mind." Evolutionary argument against naturalism In Plantinga's evolutionary argument against naturalism, he argues that if evolution is true, it undermines naturalism.
On 1 September 2008 McGrath took up the chair of theology, ministry and education in the Department of Education and Professional Studies at King's College London.
Its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, subtropical or tropical moist montane forests, and rivers.
If this enjoyable comedy has a message it is that you shouldn't believe all you read on the internet.
According to him, regressive contrasts progressive, the former being a group that "[looks] for the worst in people ...
Chapters Lucretius: De rerum natura (On the Nature of Things) – Books I, II, III, V, translation by W.
Hitchens's political perspectives also appear in his wide-ranging writings, which include many dialogues.
Synopsis The book focuses on four major New Atheist figures, collectively known as the "Four Horsemen": Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens.
In The Tablet, Keith Ward criticised Dawkins for what he considered to be an indiscriminate and simplistic approach to religion.
He also describes as flawed his brother's assertion in God is Not Great that "the order to love thy neighbour 'as thyself' is too extreme and too strenuous to be obeyed".
David Silverman was the creator and executive producer of the event, and the president of the Reason Rally Coalition.
Plantinga has also developed a more comprehensive epistemological account of the nature of warrant which allows for the existence of God as a basic belief.
Allen Orr described the book as "an accessible account of what might be called the natural history of religion".
Synopsis Dawkins dedicates the book to Douglas Adams and quotes the novelist: "Isn't it enough to see that a garden is beautiful without having to believe that there are fairies at the bottom of it too?" The book contains ten chapters.
Peels distinguishes between weak scientism, which limits the validity of science to specific areas, and strong scientism, which extends this validity to all fields of knowledge.
Kirk addressed the issue further in a 2014 YouTube video entitled "Rape, Feminism, and The Amazing Atheist", in which he again apologized for the incident and explained the context in which it happened: his remarks were meant to be satirical commentary on trigger warnings.
Meaningoflife.tv In 2002, Wright ventured into video-on-Internet with his MeaningofLife.tv website, developed by Greg Dingle, where he interviewed a range of thinkers on their ideas about science, philosophy, meditation, spirituality, and other topics.
Critical reception In The Daily Telegraph Christopher Howse concentrated on the moral arguments in the book, and agreed with Hitchens that "to determine what is right and what is wrong without God, is difficult".
A moderate Muslim might be open to discussion of four of her suggestions if the question were framed sensitively.
(...) In a very pleasing style, it takes on every aspect of the blindness and human evil produced by religions.
Byrnes also reviewed the book in The Independent, where he questioned the validity of a number of Hitchens's conclusions, including that "atheists 'actively wish for disorder and meaninglessness'".
As long as science and rational thought are under attack by the misguided yet pious majority, our nation is in jeopardy.
The tone swerves hilariously between puerile double-entendre (there’s a running sequence of gags about ‘seeing Upper Bottom’) and lacerating comedy about the atheist movement and its acolytes".
In 2010, Trent Toulouse incorporated a nonprofit organization, the RationalWiki Foundation Inc., to manage the affairs and pay the operational expenses of the website.
Rubin described the regressive left as "the left's version of the Tea Party" and said that the regressive left would damage the Democratic Party similarly to the way that the Tea Party movement damaged the Republican Party.
He was featured in a New York Times article about the growth of atheism in Southern states, has given addresses on his own "de-conversion" across the United States, and has participated in more than 140 debates around the country and the world.
Instead, society's morality has a Darwinian explanation: altruistic genes, selected through the process of evolution, give people natural empathy.
The atheist Sikivu Hutchinson criticized the merger of the secular organizations Center for Inquiry and the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science which gave Richard Dawkins a seat on the board of directors of the Center for Inquiry.
He has apparently not read the detailed discourses of Count Roderigo of Seville on the exquisite and exotic leathers of the Emperor's boots, nor does he give a moment's consideration to Bellini's masterwork, On the Luminescence of the Emperor's Feathered Hat.
2015 In April 2015, RDFRS launched the Teacher Institute for Evolutionary Science (TIES) to provide middle school teachers with workshops and free online tools to teach evolution and answer its critics.
The author argues that strong scientism is untenable and self-confuting because science itself is based on common sense assumptions and non-scientific principles.
Nine times out of ten, one will be told not of some dogma of religious certitude but of some instance of charitable or humanitarian work undertaken by a religious person.
Dawkins and Harris seem unfamiliar with religious tradition as biblical monotheists know it from personal experience and deep study.
In contrast, Stenger believes that religion often makes claims that are very much within the abilities of science to investigate.
Kirk previously had over one million subscribers on his main channel, and has over 445 million views in total.
Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny was a The New York Times Book Review Notable Book in the year 2000 and has been published in at least nine languages.
Dawkins complained of the difficulty he faced in gaining tax-free status, which he attributes to the secular nature of the organization.
Publishing Castalia House In early 2014, Beale founded Castalia House publishing in Kouvola, Finland.
However, Onfray decides that Ferreira was not such a good candidate as Meslier, since Ferreira converted to Zen Buddhism.
In 2017, Boghossian was featured in Reasons to Believe, a documentary focusing on psychology and the science of belief.
Boghossian is the author of two books, A Manual for Creating Atheists (2013), a book with a foreword by Michael Shermer, and How to Have Impossible Conversations: A Very Practical Guide (2019).
The first Reason Rally was a public gathering for secularism and religious skepticism held on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., on March 24, 2012.
He received honorary doctorates from the University of Bergen, Norway (1990), McMaster University, Ontario, Canada (2003) and the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada (2007).
He received an undergraduate degree from the University of Bristol (1962), his master's degree at McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario (1964), and a Ph.D.
(1999) ISBN 0-674-00543-0 Biology and the foundation of ethics (1999) ISBN 0-521-55923-5 Can a Darwinian be a Christian?
On April 13, 2007, he was awarded the first of 100 bicentennial medals at Mount Saint Mary's University for lecturing there as the first presenter for the Bicentennial Distinguished Lecture Series.
She said that there are many goals for the atheist movement – more separation of church and state, ending "bigotry against atheism", and for some, persuading people "out of religion", and that it is a "valid goal" to work towards a world without religion.
Career In 1983, Goldstein published her first novel, The Mind-Body Problem, a serio-comic tale of the conflict between emotion and intelligence, combined with reflections on the nature of mathematical genius, the challenges faced by intellectual women, and Jewish tradition and identity.
2009 In March 2009, following proposed anti-evolution resolutions by Oklahoma State Representative Todd Thomsen, including condemning a visit by Dawkins to Oklahoma, he instructed the U.S.
Telepolis writes that Schmidt-Salomon mentions a pretty combination of science, philosophy and arts as an opposite of religion.
Gerard Casey (born 1951) is an Irish academic and former politician who is Professor Emeritus at University College Dublin.
Awards and honors 2014 Intersections Honoree, Intersections International 2013 Media Bridge-Builder Award, Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding 2013 Peter J.
The Delusion of Disbelief: Why the New Atheism is a Threat to Your Life, Liberty, and Pursuit of Happiness.
Media appearances Barker has appeared on dozens of national television and radio programs to discuss and debate issues related to atheism and the separation of state and church.
Nonetheless, science historian James Gleick describes Dawkins's concept of the meme as "his most famous memorable invention, far more influential than his selfish genes or his later proselytising against religiosity".
The book describes Hitchens's journey from atheism, far-left politics, and bohemianism to Christianity and conservatism, detailing the influences on him that led to his conversion.
In September 2023, astrophysicists, including Gleiser, questioned the overall current view of the universe, in the form of the Standard Model of Cosmology, based on the latest James Webb Space Telescope studies.
Event organizers were targeting an attendance of 30,000 people but the organizers estimated only 15,000 to 20,000 showed up and another source estimated even less actually came to the rally.
Stenger does not think we should be dogmatic about disbelief in God, but says the evidence is overwhelmingly against the belief.
Hamburger describes leftists along with liberals and progressives as the "primary adversaries" of the IDW.
At the very least, such views are legitimate—they may be mistaken, but not because of an elementary error, a confusion of science with ideology, or an offhand dismissal of the humanities.
He sees organized atheism as attempting to actively convert people in the same way as many religions do.
The essay generated criticism both from Christians, who interpreted her conversion to Christianity as merely a cultural response and not a spiritual one, as well as from atheists who were "baffled" that she had not addressed what they considered materialist rebuttals of Christianity.
In contrast, Wikipedia's content was comparable to the Encyclopedia Britannica, leaned slightly liberal and its editors leaned centrist.
In 2014, Ruse was named the Bertrand Russell Society's award winner for his dedication to science and reason.
It requires only that individuals of a species vary genetically in their ability to survive and reproduce in their environment.
presidential campaign, Steven Pinker chose Letter to a Christian Nation as the one book that he would want Barack Obama to read, saying: "Some have criticized the uncompromising tone of this atheist best seller, but it's mild stuff compared with the acid you guys have been flinging around.
I wasn't ashamed of them when I was doing them in private, I see no reason to be ashamed of them now that they've been made public." In 2012, Kirk was widely criticized for incendiary comments made on Reddit before he deleted his account.
Atheist Manifesto: The Case Against Christianity, Judaism, and Islam (French: Traité d'athéologie) is a 2005 book by French author Michel Onfray.
War on drugs Hitchens has written about the enforcement of drug laws, most notably in his book The War We Never Fought (2012).
According to the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, the argument also "conflicts with important theistic doctrines" such as the notion of a heaven where free saved souls reside without doing evil, and the idea that God has free will yet is wholly good.
Journalists including Howard Jacobson had accused Dawkins of giving voice to extremists, a claim Dawkins responded to by noting that the National Association of Evangelicals has some 30 million members, and also that he had invited the main UK religious leaders to participate, but they all declined.
Bill Donohue's Catholic League responded with a letter demanding the University of Minnesota and the Minnesota State Legislature take action against Myers.
She has also co-organized and co-hosted the Godless Perverts Story Hour and the Godless Perverts Social Club.
Together with 36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction, it established her as a prominent figure in the humanist movement, part of a wave of "new new atheists" marked by less divisive rhetoric and a greater representation of women.
In 2009, When asked by Bill Moyers if God is a figment of the human imagination, Wright responded: I would say so.
In December 2007 the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster was credited with spearheading successful efforts in Polk County, Florida, to dissuade the Polk County School Board from adopting new science standards on evolution.
Krauss, musician Tim Minchin, MythBusters co-host Adam Savage, actor-comedian Eddie Izzard, Paul Provenza, PZ Myers, Jessica Ahlquist, Dan Barker, and magician James Randi, and others.
Boscaljon recommended the book to general readers and undergraduate students to "understand the shape of atheism and how it has changed", praising that it offers "an excellent analysis of tensions and differences within the atheist movement" more broadly than just New Atheism.
In October 2015, The Washington Times reported that the American comedian and show host Bill Maher and British biologist and New Atheist author Richard Dawkins had "lamented regressive leftists who fail to understand they are anything but liberal when it comes to Islam".
The foundation has been granted charitable status in the United Kingdom and status as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit private operating foundation in the United States.
Life Born in Argentan to a family of Norman farmers, Onfray was sent to a weekly Catholic boarding school in Giel from ages 10 to 14.
Christopher Eric Hitchens (13 April 1949 – 15 December 2011) was a British and American author and journalist.
Summary Chapter One, "What is Evolution?", gives a brief overview of Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection as theory and fact.
Twelve sessions of psychotherapy with secular licensed therapists, either online or on-location, are made available to all forum participants.
In September 2021, Boghossian resigned his position from Portland State University, citing harassment and a lack of intellectual freedom.
Rees's post-graduate work in astrophysics in the mid-1960s coincided with an explosion of new discoveries, with breakthroughs ranging from confirmation of the Big Bang, the discovery of neutron stars and black holes, and a host of other revelations.
God's Simplicity claims that Dawkins imagines that God is an object but this is not how theologians think about God.
Individuals and publications associated with the term may reject what they view as authoritarianism and ostracism within academia, the (mainstream) science community, and progressive movements in Western countries.
In addition to Myers's criticisms of Egnor's arguments on evolution and Intelligent Design, Myers criticized the Discovery Institute's reliance on someone whose expertise wasn't relevant to evolution.
Michael Escott Ruse (21 June 1940 – 1 November 2024) was a British-born Canadian philosopher of science who specialised in the philosophy of biology and worked on the relationship between science and religion, the creation–evolution controversy, and the demarcation problem within science.
During the 2010 United Kingdom general election, Dawkins officially endorsed the Liberal Democrats, in support of their campaign for electoral reform and for their "refusal to pander to 'faith'".
The responses were "Bad", "Way Bad", and "Worse than Cartman", with the third choice receiving 80% of the votes.
Daniel Edwin Barker (born June 25, 1949) is an American atheist activist and musician who served as an evangelical Christian preacher and composer for 19 years but left Christianity in 1984.
The concept can be traced to the work of Julian Huxley, the first UNESCO Director General and a major contributor to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
He receives a phone call from a future Cartman, warning him to not freeze himself, but he dismisses it as a prank call from Kyle.
Harris quotes from Eastern mystics such as Padmasambhava and Nisargadatta Maharaj, but he does not admit any supernatural element into his argument – "mysticism is a rational enterprise", he contends, "religion is not".
McGrath is noted for his work in historical theology, systematic theology, and the relationship between science and religion, as well as his writings on apologetics.
With goals of bringing unity, energy, and visibility to the secular demographic, the rally can be seen as a manifestation of the secular movement that emerged in America and elsewhere in the first decade of the twenty-first century.
2010 "The War on Terror as Political Violence", in Marie Breen Smyth, ed., The Ashgate Research Companion to Political Violence.
Reception Science press The journal Science Communication gave the book a favourable review, noting that the arguments presented "may make the Ph.D.
Goldstein is a MacArthur Fellow, and has received the National Humanities Medal and the National Jewish Book Award.
unable to get out of bed in the morning without the dual guidance of God and Karl Marx." Amis said the views Eagleton attributed to him as his considered opinion was in fact his spoken description of a tempting urge, in relation to the need to "raise the price" of terrorist actions.
About Launched in March 2011 as a collaborative effort to provide an online space where deconverted clergy could gather to support and encourage one another, the Clergy Project eventually grew to become its own independent organization, receiving 501(c)(3) status in early 2015.
It addresses what Hitchens views as the national myth of the Second World War, which he believes did long-term damage to Britain and its position in the world.
The brothers fell out after Peter wrote a 2001 article in The Spectator which allegedly characterised Christopher as a Stalinist.
In December 2006, Casey, along with host Pat Kenny and Richard Dawkins, appeared on The Late Late Show to discuss Dawkins's book The God Delusion.
I at no point sought a public audience for these comments, and never sought to solicit anyone’s anguish.
Godard wrote, "What Hitchens can't seem to appreciate is that, even if 'Soviet Communism is organically linked to atheism, something his brother and others argue against (if somewhat feebly), and even if one accepts that Soviet tyranny was horrible, this says little about the existence of God".
Overview For Hitchens, arguments for atheism can be divided into two main categories: those that dispute the existence of God and those that demonstrate the ill effects of religion.
Flynn summarised that the book has "undeniable strengths, but its many and serious flaws erode its value".
Speakers urged those assembled to contact local and national representatives and ask them to support church-state separation, science education, marriage equality for gays and lesbians, and ending government support of faith-based organizations, among other causes.
Dawkins' website, richarddawkins.net, was banned in Turkey later that year after complaints from Islamic creationist Adnan Oktar (Harun Yahya) for alleged defamation.
His commentary focuses mainly on the Abrahamic religions, although it also touches on other religions, such as Eastern religions.
A negative response by the online atheist community to Watson's account of the incident soon spread across several websites, including Reddit, and became highly polarized and heated.
History According to Alexa Internet, Pharyngula.org was started on June 19, 2002 as an experiment in writing instruction for a class.
In answer to their appeal to the Bible on questions of morality, he points to selected items from the Old Testament Mosaic law (death for adultery, homosexuality, disobedience to parents etc.), and contrasts this with, for example, the complete non-violence of Jainism.
Fundamentalism suggests that it is important to distinguish between tolerant and violent forms of faith.
A MacArthur Fellowship in 1996 led to the writing of Properties of Light (2000), a ghost story about love, betrayal, and quantum physics.
He has been associate editor of the publications Evolution (1985–1988; 1994–2000) and The American Naturalist (1990–1993).
The brothers reportedly fell out after Peter wrote a 2001 article in The Spectator which allegedly characterised Christopher as a Stalinist.
Seymour was born in Ballymena, Northern Ireland to a Protestant family, and currently lives in London.
Cartman is informed of the possible presence of a Nintendo Wii at the Museum of Technology in New New Hampshire.
(A critique of scientist Richard Dawkins' attitude towards religion) The Big Question: Why We Can't Stop Talking About Science, Faith, and God (2015), St.
One day, he is called to the hospital and told that his son Vivek has been up all night masturbating continuously until he fainted.
Location shooting for King Richard's castle was at Alnwick Castle in Northumberland and the surrounding countryside in February 1983.
He has appeared on several national radio and television shows, including The Jon Stewart Show on MTV.
In 2016, Empire magazine ranked Holy Grail 18th in their list of the 100 best British films (Life of Brian was ranked 2nd), their entry stating, "Elvis ordered a print of this comedy classic and watched it five times.
The bridge, located between Earlsdon and Coventry city centre, is known locally as "Anarchy Bridge".
Wilson points out that the Soviet Union, which suffered from this in spades, got to the point that it was terrified of painters and poets who could do little harm to them in reality.
Together with musicals and light comedy in which nuns appeared, they were part of a propaganda attempt to make Spanish cinema feel good and new.
The Church also celebrates several holidays in honor of characters from fiction and popular culture, such as Monty Python, Dracula, and Klaatu.
Possible sequel On January 4, 2015, Maher tweeted a photo of himself and director Larry Charles with the caption: "Director Larry Charles on the Hawaii trip this year...was "Religulous II" discussed??", suggesting the possibility of a sequel.
Meanwhile, the events are witnessed by an extraterrestrial spaceship which has a monkey for a captain.
In the web series A Murder at the End of the World, there is a scene referencing the editor wars where a character asks a woman if she uses Vi or Emacs.
Emacs advocates have been known to respond that the editor is actually very good, but the operating system could use improvement (referring to Emacs' famous lack of concurrency, which has now been added).
In his review, Stephen Holden also wrote that "the film has the same loose, on-the-road structure" as Larry Charles' previous film Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan and commented: "Much of Mr.
attitude and expressed admiration for Bush's successor, then-President-elect Barack Obama, for whom he had great expectations.
In January 2017, Nijmegen Pastafarian and law student Mienke de Wilde petitioned the Arnhem court to be allowed to wear a colander in her driver's license photo.
Ishtar Rising, fully titled Ishtar Rising: Why the Goddess Went to Hell and What to Expect Now That She's Returning, is a book by Robert Anton Wilson published in 1989.
The collection features the original Natural Law article, but also includes an additional 12 Wilson writings: essays, interviews and a short story, all expounding upon the themes in Natural Law.
It is the school's fault for reinforcing the stigma around sex, and failing to provide proper sex education.
Peter's Square and the world's press assembled for a news conference in the Vatican, is in the throes of paranoia, believing that the appearance of the children is sponsored by manufacturers of condoms in a plot to embarrass the Church.
The trilogy is a satirical, postmodern, science fiction-influenced adventure story; a drug-, sex- and magic-laden trek through a number of conspiracy theories, both historical and imaginary, which hinge on the authors' version of the Illuminati.
Publication history Jaxon's God Nose strip first appeared in the Florida college fanzine Charlatan, where it was published from 1963 to at least 1966.
Almodóvar explains: "I came up with the story of a girl who drives both men and women wild, a girl who sings, drinks, takes drugs, occasionally goes through periods of abstinence and has the extraordinary experiences one would never have, were one to live a hundred years ...
The Church appealed unsuccessfully to the Federal Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights.
See also Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster Parody religion Wedge strategy Occasionalism References External links intelligentattraction.com
As a result, the superiors often operate from a distorted view of the situation, sometimes leading to poor results.
Kleps testified that the absurdist elements of the Church were intended to show that all religions are invented and silly.
During the 2016 United States presidential election, the meme was connected to Donald Trump's campaign.
Other Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence The Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, an international group of mostly gay men who frequently mock Catholicism and promote safe sex and AIDS awareness, hold anniversary parties and parades on Easter Sunday.
It was the last album to feature all six original members, as guitarist Kendall Jones left the band a few months after the album's release, and keyboardist/trombonist Chris Dowd would leave the next year.
Joshua Norton left Cape Town in late 1845 and arrived in Boston via the ship Sunbeam from Liverpool on March 12, 1846.
"Bob" Dobbs, High Epopt of the Church of the SubGenius, Here Inscribed for the Salvation of Future Generations and in the Hope that Slack May Someday Reign on This Earth (ISBN 0-671-63810-6) is seen as the "Bible" of the Church of the SubGenius.
Sloane (directed by Peter Moffatt) was broadcast on 15 July 1968, and Games (directed by Ormerod) on 26 August 1968, both post-dating Orton's death.
Pray TV (also known as KGOD) is a 1980 American comedy film spoofing televangelism, directed and co-written by Rick Friedberg.
Kyle Jarrow and Alex Timbers were given "Special Citations" from The Village Voice for developing the piece.
PFJ leader Reg tasks Brian to paint slogans overnight on Roman governor Pontius Pilate's palace, but a Roman officer catches him in the act.
A production was staged at the Lyric Theatre in 1984 during the run of which the actor Leonard Rossiter died whilst waiting to go on stage.
His "Rants" are a regular feature at the Starwood Festival and WinterStar Symposium, both produced by the Association for Consciousness Exploration (ACE).
Although not as openly greedy and vulgar as his children, Eli often prioritizes his own wealth and status ahead of spirituality.
However, the author also developed the logics of sex magic underlying the seemingly gruesome sexual scenes.
When the court demands written proof that the earthquake was an 'Act of God,' Krishna steers Kanji toward holy books such as the Bhagavad Gita, the Quran, and the Bible.
It also featured musical guests Lola Amour and Dilaw, who came to sing parody songs written and sung by Michael V.
The book is divided into sections—"Weird Science," "UFO Contactees," "Drug Stuff," and others, and each section contains a variety of mini-articles describing organizations.
Trilogy is a series of three novels written by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson purportedly between 1969 and 1971, and first published in 1975.
Events and protests The concept of Dinkoism has spread through social media but the movement has also organised protest events.
The space captain of their ship has the physical appearance of a chimpanzee and speaks with a voice which imitates John Wayne.
So, because everyone wanted to direct their own wives, Alatriste wanted to direct his own part with his wife, with me.
Plot A tragic love story of Bhouri, a 23-year-old who is married to a 45-year-old, the film highlights the exploitation of women in male dominated society.
Norris claimed that if people draw pictures of Muhammad, Islamist terrorists would not be able to murder them all, and threats to do so would become unrealistic.
He also gave me many ideas: In fact, if you do not like some part of this book, you may attribute it to him." Contents This work follows the typical format of a devotional of a Catholic saint, using it as a framework to satirize such works.
As such, she is more closely related to the Greek concept of homonoia (likemindedness), which was also represented by a goddess.
However, Pinal recalled: It is not true that Simon of the Desert was a medium-length film because of Gustavo Alatriste's economic troubles.
References External links SubGenius Art Mines – archive of images from alt.binaries.slack (contains adult images)
As the 2011 census form did not list religions, these had to be filled out; the total number of Jedi is not artificially boosted by those who were not aware of the phenomenon before filling out the census form.
The Last Hangover is a Brazilian comedy streaming television special produced by the comedy troupe Porta dos Fundos.
The Science Show arranged for Geoff Sirmai and David Fisher of the Australian musical comedy team "Comic Roasts" to write the "Steve Song", a parody of the Monty Python song about Spam, for Project Steve.
In November 2005, Henderson received an advance from Villard to write The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
The meme took off among 4chan users, who adapted Pepe's face and catchphrase to fit different scenarios and emotions, such as melancholy, anger, and surprise.
Yoism adopted the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike copyleft license for sharing original works in May 2015.
Unlike most Bible translation efforts, the LOLCat Bible Translation Project did not depend on one translator or a group of prominent ones, but on crowdsourced translation.
See also Christwire Westboro Baptist Church List of satirical magazines List of satirical news websites List of satirical television news programs Parody religion References External links Landover Baptist Church
Special features on the DVD include a commentary with Bill Maher and director Larry Charles, deleted scenes, and extended Bill Maher monologues from around the world that were either edited down or not included in the film at all.
Plot summary The story takes place in a fictional European country on the eve of the religious festival of Saint Jorgen, the highlight of which is the selection of his "bride" who receives a significant monetary prize.
Dinkoism (), the Dinkoist religion, or Dinkamatham is a parody religion and social movement that emerged and evolved on social networks organized by independent welfare groups in the Indian state of Kerala.
Dick, and the potential pitfalls of blindly accepting 'expert' opinion; all loosely connected by the underlying theme of the perspectival and relative construction of reality.
The new format is a big success but attracts an incompatible mix of fringe ministries and broadcasters wanting time on the station.
It covers familiar Wilson territory such as the writings of James Joyce, Carl Jung, linguistics, and coincidence.
The news of the arrest created a worldwide interest in the case with the Twitter hashtag #FreeGeronPastitsios becoming a global trending topic and a relevant petition by the Humanist Union of Greece has received over 10,000 signatures so far on Change.org.
Background As of 2020, both Emacs and vi can lay claim to being among the longest-lived application programs of all time, as well as being the two most commonly used text editors on Linux and Unix.
Proper etiquette on the newsgroup dictates that credit be given where it is due, and acknowledgment of the ownership of "Bob's" image by the Church is accepted by the regular newsgroup participants.
Shortly after its creation, via forged Usenet control messages in 1995, the newsgroup was targeted by warez traders, who tried to use it for the distribution of pirated commercial software.
The Principia describes the Discordian Society and its Goddess Eris, as well as the basics of the POEE denomination of Discordianism.
It is a revision of Wilson's earlier The Book of the Breast, first published by Playboy Press in 1974, which contained many images not present in the current version.
They maintain that their followers, but not the pinks, are capable of developing an imagination; the Church teaches that Dobbs has empowered its members to see through these illusions.
According to Radio France Internationale, and Newsweek, pages were blocked on Wikipedia by the Pakistan agency due to what the government described as "growing sacrilegious contents".
A founder of the Sisters considered "Play Fair!" to be "one of the Order's greatest achievements in community education and support".
High-ranking priests as well as believers proposed that the Elder should be recognised as a Saint by the Orthodox Church (which was later realized).
Nationally On a national scale, the Black Death had recently arrived in England, probably through Weymouth, Dorset.
It also has a brief appearance by Cecilia Roth as Mercedes, a former redeemer and lover of the Mother Superior.
With few opportunities for spiritual ministry, the nuns have begun to indulge in their own idiosyncratic pursuits in order to pass the time.
The Boo Hoo Bible has been described as "requiring its reader to transcend the personal in an act that simultaneously simulates and dissimulates, establishing and overcoming the ironic....
A game among UNIX users, either to test the depth of an Emacs user's understanding of the editor or to poke fun at the complexity of Emacs, involved predicting what would happen if a user held down a modifier key (such as Ctrl or Alt) and typed their own name.
In the February 27, 1966, episode of the western television series Bonanza, titled "The Emperor Norton," Sam Jaffe played the title role.
Plot The film features followers and members of the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, called 'Pastafari', as they practice and campaign politically, legally and socially to obtain the same privileges and legal exemptions granted to religions.
They contacted Leslie, who thought the script was hilarious." During the film's production, producer Steve Wizan denied that the film was an outright parody of The Exorcist, stating: "It’s not an Exorcist spoof.
The other showed pieces of the plane falling on an Islamic State (ISIS) fighter with the caption: "Russia's air force intensifies its bombing".
As of March 27, 2008, approximately 61% of the text had been adapted, and Grondin stated that he hoped the entire New Testament would be complete by the end of 2008.
In the garden adjacent to the old mansion, there is a fig tree, which, according to legend, has miraculous properties.
ICBC claimed their October 2014 definitive refusal was based on the fact that it would only 'accommodate customers with head coverings where their faith prohibits them from removing it', and that 'Mr.
("Using a free version of vi is not a sin but a penance.") The Church of Emacs has its own newsgroup, alt.religion.emacs, that has posts purporting to support this belief system.
Once there, scenes are shown depicting Rome during the Fascist regime in the 1930s as well as in the 1970s.
Police arrested and charged eight of the Pastafarians with attempting to hold an unsanctioned rally.
Arthur and his knights arrive at a castle occupied by French soldiers, who claim to have the Grail and taunt the Britons, driving them back with a barrage of barnyard animals.
Interpretation The preacher The print depicts a preacher – his open mouth and scale of vociferation an allusion to George Whitefield's powerful voice – speaking to a church congregation from the top of a high pulpit.
We wanted to crystallize some of our favorite themes from the Principia, those of radical free will and self-emancipation." The goal was to encourage "critical thinking and self awareness" in the reader.
Wraith (loosely based on Jerry Falwell), demands that the National Guard be called in, leading to a siege and an unexpected outcome to the entire situation.
The IPU is a rhetorical illustration used by agnostics, atheists, and other religious skeptics as a contemporary version of Russell's teapot, sometimes mentioned in conjunction with the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
A common challenge against atheism is the idea that atheism is itself a form of "faith", a belief without proof.
Parody religions may also use their social organization to create a sense of community and belonging among their followers, or as a way to comment on societal issues or political ideologies.
Argument to Prove that the Abolishing of Christianity in England May, as Things Now Stand Today, be Attended with Some Inconveniences, and Perhaps not public domain audiobook at LibriVox
Colonel Hudibras' humiliations arrive sometimes by the skills and courage of women, and the epic ends with a witty and detailed declaration by the latest female to get the better of him that women are intellectually superior to men.
The title references the word "bali" which means "break" (in Filipino), which "BaliSong" means a break between songs during the gags.
External links Collection of medieval drinkers and gamblers masses Discussion of medieval humor, including Latin drinkers mass and translation in appendix
In the second of these attacks, 12 people were killed, including publishing director Charb and several other prominent cartoonists.
As explained on the back cover the title is a deliberate misspelling suggesting the "mad dervish whirl of coincidence and synchronicity" to be found within.
Our song is very timely!" Music video The song's music video was directed by David Hogan and produced by Daniel Stewart for Limelight Productions.
This idiom is thought to originate in American English, although similar or even identical idioms occur in many other languages.
Cast Michael Denison - Pringle Vivien Merchant - Tessa Ian McShane - Caulfield Bill Fraser - McCorquodale Production history Orton wrote Funeral Games in several drafts between July and November 1966, a period of intense productivity for him.
Despite appearances, the Devil is needy and co-dependent, often reduced to tears when God ignores or forgets about him, to the point that he planned to go to war with Heaven when God forgot their golf outing.
Sacred Ikon Around 2002, the Church adopted a new symbol called the "Sacred Ikon" or "Dobbs Ikon", which is a stylized cross consisting of three bars and a pipe, placed in a pattern that matches the eyes, nose, mouth, and pipe of "Bob"'s image.
It features an ensemble cast including José Zúñiga, George Lopez, Miguel Sandoval, Olivia Hussey, Elpidia Carrillo, Alexis Cruz, Jude Herrera, Marcelo Tubert, and Lupe Ontiveros.
In 2012, Nevzorov supported Vladimir Putin during his presidential campaign, and was his authorised representative.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 22 out of 100, based on 4 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.
Cultural studies scholar Solomon Davidoff states that the Church develops a "satiric commentary" on religion, morality, and conspiracies.
Pope dispatches the duo, but they were not beaten and summon all of Earth's corpses to form a giant, writhing zombie monster.
The book's essays and stories are illustrated with line drawings, message banners, cartoons, office memos and interviews.
The story was based on several existing accounts that were already circulating online and involved the miraculous recovery of a teenager who supposedly woke from a coma after his mother placed a talisman with dirt from Elder Paisios’ grave under his pillow.
On it, visitors track meetings of pirate-clad Pastafarians, sell trinkets and bumper stickers, and sample photographs that show "visions" of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
"Bob" Dobbs, the founder of the Church of the SubGenius, is commonly seen on alt.binaries.slack, where he appears regularly in images by many artists.
The establishment of new religions through open-source methods is closely related to chaos magic, which emphasizes the pragmatic use of belief systems and the creation of new and unorthodox methods, the difference being that any knowledge gained through such innovation is shared openly.
One episode where God began acting human had him delight in being unsupervised only to quickly tire of it being “pointless” without God.
Their sermons and songs routinely draw the attention of police and security forces assigned to those spaces, leading to arrests and significant media coverage.
A different attribution has been made by Lapôtre, who claimed the work to be a satire directed toward Julian the Apostate by the poet Bachiarius.
Publication history "The Marquis de Fumerol" was first published in the newspaper Gil Blas on January 17, 1887.
He requested that "Pastafarianism" be taught alongside intelligent design and "logical conjecture based on overwhelming observable evidence".
The 2021 United Kingdom census recorded a dramatic decline in the number of Jedi Knights with fewer than 1,600 followers in England and Wales.
It was first released as a 9-track vinyl album through Zappa's label Barking Pumpkin Records in October 1988, and subsequently as a 17-track CD through Rykodisc in 1989.
In June 2022, Nevzorov and his wife Lidia submitted an application to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for Ukrainian citizenship.
Background Alex Timbers developed the concept and directed the play, while Kyle Jarrow wrote the accompanying book, music, and lyrics.
His text is opened at a page which reads "I speak as a fool", and he is wearing a Harlequin jacket under his clerical gown.
Those unacquainted with Wilson's work would do well to pick up a copy." Reviews Review by Theodore Sturgeon (1981) in Rod Serling's The Twilight Zone Magazine, September 1981 Review by Tom Easton (1981) in Analog Science Fiction/Science Fact, December 7, 1981 == References ==
In the 2017 retrial, however, the case was dismissed, as it was determined that the statute of limitations had expired, following the introduction of Greek Law No.
The picture had a budget of one million dollars, and the soundtrack was created by Mike Bloomfield and Barry Goldberg.
The next day, to reduce his chances of being appointed, Edmund dresses up ridiculously, but to his horror, King Richard announces that he will be the new archbishop.
Briefly these were: belief in a messianic prophecy, use of psychedelic drugs as sacrament, a perception of reality as multi-layered and semi-subjective, and adherence to the principles of at least one of the world's major religions.
Like Terrytoons created Mighty Mouse and several other superhero characters, Dinkan borrowed a few traits from the iconic DC Comics character Superman.
In art and numismatics In Roman art, Concordia was depicted sitting, wearing a long cloak and holding onto a patera (sacrificial bowl), a cornucopia (symbol of prosperity), or a caduceus (symbol of peace).
They initially receive sarcastic praise from her, until the interview degrades into a tirade against their apparent lack of piety and their secular lifestyles, culminating with her judgmental admonishments and condemnation.
The film critic of the Venetian Il Gazzetino described the film as scandalous, but his counterpart in Corriere Della Sera saw Almodóvar as a true heir of the acclaimed Italian film director Pier Paolo Pasolini and applauded his attack on Christianity.
The Book of the SubGenius, which discusses Slack at length, was published by Simon & Schuster and sold 30,000 copies in its first five years in print.
An intentionally facetious graph accompanying the letter (with numbers humorously disordered on the x-axis) shows that as the number of pirates decreased, global temperatures increased.
Porter and the robbers develop a rapport that resembles shop talk among thieves as they discuss the best ways of investing stolen money.
Eager to reach level eight herself, Marcie asks for a more extreme game in order to level up faster.
The email asserted that any religion passing a minimum threshold (given variously as 8,000 or 10,000) would be entitled to some form of official recognition.
It ridicules secular and religious credulity, and lampoons the exaggerated religious "enthusiasm" (excessive emotion, not keenness) of the Methodist movement.
The play-within-a-play involves Diabetes playing a slave who is forced to courier a message to the king.
The song, which charts the growth of the Brian character to manhood, was composed by Andre Jacquemin and Dave Howman with lyrics by Michael Palin.
Some of their discussion centered on a powerful conspiracy, to which the Church attributes command of the world.
Oldhead, who has glasses and a beard, is grumpy and blasé, and is usually happy to simply sit and watch Marwin and Shorthead exerting violence against each other.
The Matrixism website singles out April 19 as a holiday – otherwise known as Bicycle Day – marks the anniversary of Albert Hofmann's 1943 experiment with LSD.
The 27-year-old page creator would later state that he did this to expose the gullibility of the faithful, and also to show the poor fact-checking done among the religious and conservative blogosphere.
December 2015 The United Church of Bacon posted a holiday billboard in December 2015 which stated "Merry Christmas and Happy Hanukkah from 13,000+ Atheists & Skeptics at United Church of Bacon".
Curtis was generally critical of the first series, stating that while comedy writers hone their craft first by writing sketches and then progress to writing situation comedy, the most successful parts of The Black Adder were in essence just sketches.
The hoax comprises part of a cycle of "Microsoft jokes" in which the Microsoft Corporation is portrayed as a wealthy but evil monopoly built on bloated or unreliable desktop software, planned obsolescence of products, corporate takeovers of once-innovative rivals, and litigiousness.
The following day, the robots have now evolved into incorporeal energy beings of transcendent higher consciousness that are no longer concerned with corporeal beings including Farnsworth, and send the crew home.
Robinson felt that, because he, Rowan Atkinson and Tim McInnerny had just begun to work together, this scene was the first time that the three of them truly "gelled" as an ensemble of performers.
The name gave several derivatives in Ancient Greek, including ἐρίζω erízō "to fight" and ἔρισμα érisma "object of a quarrel".
Furthermore, IF asserts that theories explaining gravity are not internally consistent nor mathematically reconcilable with quantum mechanics, making gravity a "theory in crisis".
Eric André as Lyle Lissons (season 2), a prominent Texas televangelist who wants to work with Jesse Jessica Lowe as Lindy Lissons (season 2), Lyle's wife and business partner Crystal Coney as Angie Steve Zahn as Peter Montgomery (season 3), a militia leader, and Eli's estranged brother-in-law.
Harry accompanies Edmund to Canterbury, where he is ordained as Archbishop of Canterbury and Primate of All England.
In the United States, David Headley and Tahawwur Hussain Rana were convicted of planning terrorism against Jyllands-Posten and were sentenced in 2013.
(Government documents only changed to New Style dates from 1 January 1753; see Old Style and New Style dates.) However, for printers and booksellers, and the general public, in Butler's day the year started, and the number changed, on 1 January.
Listed as a member of the Landover Baptist Church, Bowers operates several Christian ministries with names like "Bringing Integrity To Christian Homemakers" (B.I.T.C.H.) and "Baptists Are Saving Homosexuals" (B.A.S.H.).
The Jolly Company eventually formed a group known as The All-Joking, All-Drunken Synod of Fools and Jesters, which had a "Prince-Pope", a college of cardinals, bishops, archimandrites, priests and deacons.
Shortly after Jerome loses his factory job, his sister in-law Lenore (Dominique Davalos) comes to Rev.
The release was later expanded to 6000 screens worldwide, which included 5200 screens in India and 844 screens overseas.
The panel garnered an audience of one hundred of the more than 9,000 conference attendees, and conference organizers received critical e-mails from Christians offended by it.
The Schrödinger's Cat trilogy is similar in length, writing style, plot devices and the use of parallel universes for the novel's settings.
Behind him are the soldiers who died in his military campaigns, whom he promised would go to heaven regardless of their deeds.
His possessions included his collection of walking sticks, his rather battered sabre, a variety of headgear, including a stovepipe, a derby, a red-laced Army cap, and another cap suited to a martial band-master.
Elder Pastitsios (Greek: Γέρων/Γέροντας Παστίτσιος, romanized: Géron/Gérontas Pastítsios) is a satirical figure of a fictitious monk who first appeared in a Facebook page.
In addition to the generic advice of cultivating the natural love of chaos and playing with her, the Principia Discordia provides "The Turkey Curse Revealed by the Apostle Dr.
"Harder than Your Husband" is a country rock song, while Atkins classifies "Doreen" as "power doo-wop".
In 1984 or 1985, programmer Don Hopkins sent Richard Stallman a letter labeled "Copyleft—all rights reversed".
Plot God Nose portrays God as an old man with a white beard and a crown, sitting on a golden throne in Heaven.
However, computer scientist and lawyer Arnoud Engelfriet writes that "[t]he phrase ['All rights reversed'] by itself is not enough; a license must explicitly state the rights that are granted".
In contemporary terminology, this process is sometimes described as "hastening the eschaton" or "hastening the apocalypse".
The printing of this book also caused problems, due to rarely used laws in the United Kingdom against blasphemy, dictating what can and cannot be written about religion.
Several imperial coins depicted the goddess Concordia, such as those issued by Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus.
The fish was originally adopted by early Christians as a secret symbol, but the many variations known today first appeared in the 1980s.
X-Day is a traditional part of the Church of the SubGenius, a religion formed as a parody of cults and extreme religious groups, and their pamphlets and claims.
Also found were fake telegrams, including one purporting to be from Tsar Alexander II of Russia congratulating Norton on his forthcoming marriage to Queen Victoria and another from the President of France predicting that such a union would be disastrous to world peace.
The poster included a claim of sponsorship by an organization named "Citizens Against Citizens Against Humor or CACAH (pronounced ca-ca)", which Norris later said was purely fictional.
The Flying Spaghetti Monster became a symbol for the case against intelligent design in public education.
Along with crude drawings and altered stock photography, Henderson employs irony to present perceived flaws with evolution and discusses history and lifestyle from a Pastafarian perspective.
The comedy is modelled after Bertolt Brecht's epic theatre, in that the characters frequently point out the artificiality of the play and switch roles.
Much has been written about his person and his prophecies concerning the End times, the upbringing of children, couples' relationships, even the diet Paisios supposedly followed.
In what is now the standard edition (Oxford University: Clarendon Press, 1967), the editor, John Wilders, assessed all the early editions and chose as his copy text the 1674 edition of Parts One and Two and the 1678 edition of Part Three, these making up, as they do, Butler's approved final text.
The name ApologetiX is a play on apologetics, the defense of a religious doctrine, in particular, Christian apologetics.
In 1862, the French Empire invaded Mexico after the latter was unable to pay war reparations following the disastrous Reform War.
She is naturally talented at nearly everything that she sets out to do, and accepts any challenge that catches her interest without hesitation, regardless of difficulty or time constraint.
One writer has suggested that there is an element of paradox in the concept of respect for a sacred cow, as illustrated in a comment about the novelist V.
It is difficult to estimate the number of Discordians because they are not required to hold Discordianism as their only belief system.
The original primary religious text of the church was The Boo Hoo Bible: The Neo-American Church Catechism and Handbook (1967), written by Kleps, a mixed-media work integrating comics, news clippings, senate testimonies, and political-religious diatribes.
Johnson and the election of 1968, leading up to the election of Richard Nixon, delivered in the style of Biblical verse.
The spirit promises to give Joseph a breast plate and "an assistant, even Oliver, the pedagogue", a reference to Book of Mormon scribe Oliver Cowdery.
The order is facing serious financial hardships as their prime financial supporter, the vain and greedy Marchioness (La Marquesa), has decided to discontinue the convent's annuity under the pretense of economizing.
This game humor originated with users of the older TECO editor, which was the implementation basis, via macros, of the original Emacs.
The page created a hoax about a posthumous miracle by Elder Paisios which was submitted to various Orthodox, conservative and far-right blogs in July.
She murdered somebody and as the Mother Superior lied under oath to save her from jail, she is very devoted to her.
Religious scholar Thomas Alberts of the University of London views the Church as attempting to "subvert the idea of authenticity in religion" by mirroring other religions to create a sense of both similarity and alterity.
The Arabs' beliefs were modified in contact with the Jewish-Christian monotheism they encountered in the conquered land.
Writing in an editorial for The Washington Times, Jason Greaves urged individuals to participate in the protest event on May 20.
Nutzinger (Coll.): Christliche, jüdische und islamische Wirtschaftsethik – Über religiöse Grundlagen wirtschaftlichen Verhaltens in der säkularen Gesellschaft, Marburg 2003, S.
According to Amnesty International, Saber's home, where his mother and sister also live, continues to be the scene of angry protests.
See also Islamophobia Criticism of Islam Islamic terrorism References External links Islam: What the West Needs to Know at IMDb
Today, the situation is different; the topic has been well studied by various researchers, and the audience I meet during my lectures now expects less confrontational approaches.
41) (1995), Washington Institute for Near East Policy, ISBN 0-944029-64-7 Sandstorm (1993), Rowman & Littlefield, paperback (1993) ISBN 0-8191-8894-8 Damascus Courts the West: Syrian Politics, 1989–1991 (Policy Papers, No.
Muir is more specific about the date, identifying the Caliph, who remains unnamed in the epistles, as Al-Ma'mun, who reigned from 813 to 833.
The lawsuit in part accused the CVS of deceiving consumers through its misrepresentation of homeopathy's safety and effectiveness, wasting customers' money and putting their health at risk.
Pellerin of Princeton, New Jersey based Political Asylum Research and Documentation Service, successfully convinced Summers to abandon his staunch opposition to lifting the U.S.
He said that Al-Arian was an Islamic extremist, and headed the Palestine Islamic Jihad (PIJ) in the U.S.
Alms for Jihad: Charity and Terrorism in the Islamic World is a 2006 book co-written by American authors J.
The conquest marks the westernmost expansion of both the Umayyad Caliphate and Muslim rule into Europe.
Background and contents Fernández-Morera is a Cuban-born associate professor at Northwestern University in the United States, specialising in the literature of Miguel Cervantes.
It argues that the French nation state has suffered a gradual decline since the 1970s, which Zemmour mainly attributes to the rise of immigration, feminism and egalitarianism, as well as the erosion of traditional values.
Publications As former CEO of The Democracy Project, Myers is editor of the conservative guide, Choosing the Right College, that included an introduction by former Secretary of Education William Bennett, and past editor of the publication, ISI Study Guides to the Liberal Arts.
In the text of the novel there are references to the date of the main events of the novel: And the Old King, together with the Old Duke, made four paladins into bishops.
Periyar praised Thiruvalluvar for his description of God as a formless entity with only positive attributes.
A Facebook spokesperson replied that the account was terminated because the website did not believe he was using his real name, a breach of Facebook's "real name culture".
Fired by the Canadian Government for Criticizing Islam: Multicultural Canada: A Weak Link In the Battle Against Islamization.
He contends that, far from being an aberration, the torture of heretics was a logical expression of Christian doctrine – one which, he says, was clearly justified by men such as Saint Augustine.
Some of Puin's initial remarks on his findings are found in his essay titled the "Observations on Early Qur'an Manuscripts in Sana'a", which has been republished in the book What the Koran Really Says (2002), written by the Ex-Muslim author and activist Ibn Warraq.
Islam and the Future of Tolerance: A Dialogue is a 2015 book collaboration between American author Sam Harris and British activist Maajid Nawaz.
While hadith studies was preoccupied with the question of authenticity during the twentieth century, the scope of the field today has broadened to address questions such as what role hadith played in the intellectual and social histories of Muslim societies.
Mixed Barnaby Rogerson, writing for The Independent, noted the work to be extraordinarily rich, detailed and enchanting; his writing was praised in particular.
The book has been banned in Bangladesh because "its contents might hurt the existing social system and religious sentiments of the people." The book is very frank about her father and mother.
See also Human rights in Islamic Republic of Iran Women in Muslim societies Statue of a Liberated Woman Further reading Darabi, Parvin; Thomson, Romin P (1999).
Asia Bibi would later disown the memoir, citing that she disagreed with the book's portrayal of her story and Pakistani law.
Almost all of them now live in the West, many under assumed names as they have had death threats made against them by Islamic groups and individuals.
Al-Azhar expressed concerns over the broadcasting of Alhayat TV, saying that the Coptic channel was offensive to Muslims and Islam.
Even though João Doria, the then-governor of São Paulo, is his family's friend, Kogos began to declare himself a fierce opponent of Doria and the social isolation measures he had decreed, promoting a campaign of opposition.
History The channel was founded in Cyprus in 2003 by Al Hayat Ministries, an evangelical organization.
The book also criticizes "Marxist historians", and one of the appendices of the second volume includes a questionnaire for "Marxist professors", one of whom was an Indian historian Romila Thapar.
The prosecution called for a report to assess Yee's suitability for reformative training, arguing that a jail term or a fine would have no rehabilitative effect.
References Further reading "Playboy's Indonesia edition enrages - and disappoints", The Times online edition, 7 April 2006.
Ibn Kammunah's Treatise on the Differences between the Rabbanites and the Karaites Pourjavady, Reza.
The book was frequently discussed, translated and became a bestseller in Germany (published together with The Caged Virgin in 2005 under the title Ich klage an.
Spencer co-founded the anti-Muslim group Stop Islamization of America (also known as the American Freedom Defense Initiative) with Pamela Geller in 2010.
Kramer has written for the group Middle East Forum, and has argued that Islam and fundamentalism are innately linked.
Administration Myers works at the Middle East Forum where he is director of both Campus Watch and Academic Affairs in Philadelphia.
She has later been an associate editor at FrontPage Magazine as well as a daily writer for Jihad Watch, both publications of the David Horowitz Freedom Center.
And although there are included in this scripture many more absurdities worthy of laughter, he insists that this was brought down to him by God.
ISBN 9780853037347 Islamic Radicalism and Political Violence: The Templars of Islam and Sheikh Ra’id Salah, Vallentine Mitchell, London, 2008.
He challenges: which ethical statement made or which action performed by a believer could not have been made or performed by a non-believer?
Michel Gurfinkiel (1 August 1948, Paris) is a French conservative journalist and public intellectual.
The Pope had the medals sent, as well as a reply in which he thanked him for his "very beautiful tragedy of Mahomet" and discussed the grammar of his couplet.
References Further reading Introduction to The Decline of Eastern Christianity Under Islam Islam Review: Eastern Christians Torn Asunder
It was alleged that Nasrin's statement in this book on Prophet Mohammad hurts the sentiments of the Muslim community.
Lorenz Langer, a professor of law at University of Zurich, noted her to be among those who made a living by "churning out alarmist accounts of the threat that Islam poses to the Occident".
It was originally published in the United Kingdom by Atlantic Books as God Is Not Great: The Case Against Religion and in the United States by Twelve as God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything, but in 2017 Atlantic Books republished it with no subtitle.
Review of Suliman Bashear, Studies in early Islamic tradition (Jerusalem: Max Schloessinger Memorial Foundation, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 2004).
The documentary has won numerous awards for journalism, including the George Polk Award for best television documentary.
It is part of a worrying pattern targeting families of human rights defenders in exile," adding: "The harassment of families, to muzzle human rights defenders in exile from Bangladesh, is utterly reprehensible.
Robinson called The Decline of Eastern Christianity a pseudo-history that was "a work of polemic" whose errors were too numerous to list in his review.
We will declare you a blockhead and brand you as a fool, and destroy your reputation.' If he was a merchant he said, 'we will boycott your goods and reduce you to beggary.' If he was a person of no social importance, he beat him and incited people against him.
The controversy surrounding Playboy in Indonesia punctuated the issue of pornography legislation opposed by prominent Indonesian feminists, including Kamala Chandrakirana, chairwoman of the National Commission on Violence Against Women, who spoke openly in support of Playboy Indonesia.
She is of mixed-race background, with a quarter each of Indian, Scottish, Chinese and black ancestry.
Harris also critiques the role of the Christian right in the United States, in influencing such areas as drug policies, embryonic stem cell research, and AIDS prevention in the developing world.
Initially, Campus Watch published the profile of eight university professors and teachers, who, it said, were "hostile" to America and "preaching dangerous rhetoric to students".
It was fear-mongering and divisive." The editor John Robinson wrote: "As a journalist, my default position is to provide people with more knowledge, however troubling, rather than less.
In a March 2013 Ethnic and Racial Studies journal article, Nasar Meer wrote that the book was, "Remarkably similar to anxieties over western decline in the late 19th century." The book has been considered to popularize the Eurabia theory of Bat Ye'or, whose work has been expressly cited by Steyn.
Using the above strategy, the plebiscite produced a unanimous decision for integration with Indonesia, which was duly noted by United Nations General Assembly in November 1969.
ISBN 978-1-950330-46-1 (large 8x11.5 trade paper 402 pages) Criticism Numerous tracts were published criticising his work.
"West Midlands Police has taken account of this advice and explored options available to them and has now referred the matter to the broadcasting regulators Ofcom as a formal complaint.
His 2010 book The Third Choice: Islam, Dhimmitude and Freedom has a foreword by Bat Ye'or, and Durie has been described as a proponent of Ye'or's counter-jihadist worldview.
It is the third book by Carlin, the previous ones being Napalm and Silly Putty (2001) and Brain Droppings (1997).
When Muhammad says a thing, he never tells a lie." Umayyah went to his wife and said to her, "Do you know what my brother from Yathrib (i.e.
One of the most influential modernist critiques comes from Mahmoud Abu Rayya, who argued that the basis of Islam rests on the Quran, reason, and mutawatir (as opposed to merely sahih) hadith.
Clair Tisdall, describing it as a "shoddy piece of missionary propaganda" and the "worst" among the essays of the book.
Submission On September 17, 2006, in response to the Pope Benedict XVI Islam controversy, Imad Hamto, a Palestinian religious leader, said: "We want to use the words of the Prophet Muhammad and tell the pope: ‘Aslim Taslam'.
Debbie Schlussel (born 1969), Orthodox Jew of Polish pedigree, is an American-born attorney, film critic, conservative political commentator, and a blogger.
Specifically Wansbrough thinks it must have been completed by Ibn Hisham around the time he composed his Sīra of Muhammad because of the "preponderance of Quran-based (historicised) narratives therein".
His tombstone was engraved in accordance with his wishes: "I saw from the other side - Yehuda Nevo"; probably a reference to the changing of his surname to Nebo/Nevo, which is known as Moses' burial place, and to Rachel Bluwstein's poem "From the other side".
Napoleon, during his captivity on Saint Helena, criticised Voltaire's Mahomet, and said Voltaire had made him merely an impostor and a tyrant, without representing him as a "great man": Mahomet was the subject of deep criticism.
References External links Home page http://web.uvic.ca/~arippin/rippincv.pdf Archived 2019-02-14 at the Wayback Machine
The latter two groups are trying to recruit the Mecca Muslims to their cause; Hirsi Ali herself takes the side of the Modifying Muslims.
This major split decimated Direction – Social Democracy's support, forcing Fico to reorient the party's ideological focus towards a more nationalist, populist, and conservative.
He also makes the assertion that non-Muslims living in Muslim countries suffer legalised oppression that stems from teachings in the Qur'an.
In March 2021, EXMNA announced that it had implemented new content standards on WikiIslam, archived and deleted articles that did not meet those standards, and initiated re-writes of other articles.
Content In the book, Fallaci likens Islam to a "mountain which in one thousand and four hundred years has not moved, has not risen from the abyss of its blindness, has not opened its doors to the conquests of civilization, has never wanted to know about freedom and democracy and progress.
Scholarship The work draws from the revisionist school of Islamic studies and the scholarship of Patricia Crone (with further refinements produced by John Wansbrough, Fred Donner, Andrew Rippin, Christoph Luxenberg et al) in applying rigorous textual analysis to the Hadithic corpus.
All our superstitions and meaningless and absurd rituals and ceremonies are the result of following the tenets of Hinduism.
Peretz attracted further criticism from within the government and Israeli society in July 2019, when he endorsed gay conversion therapy, and claimed to have personally performed such therapy.
The book concludes with the question of whether religion, despite its alleged problems, fills a "much needed gap", giving consolation and inspiration to people who need it.
Instead, Islam came into being on the basis of a conflict among various types of monotheists which considered each other to fail in living a perfect monotheism, and considering each other to practice idolatry.
According to The Washington Post, the organization "touted as its 'first accomplishment' its 2008 campaign to shut down a Minnesota Islamic school." The Southern Poverty Law Center described ACT!
Naipaul also documents the ongoing Islamization of native cultures: central to the stories of Indonesia and Malaysia is the presence of Islamic radicals trying to purge what remained of the native cultures, such as their rituals, faith in spirit, and taboos.
13), and critiques Eastern religions for encouraging mental submission and failing to offer consistent spiritual insight (ch.
The Philosophical Dictionary was censored in many countries, including Switzerland (Geneva) and France.
Said describes the book as the third and last in a series of books (the first two were Orientalism and The Question of Palestine) in which he analyzes the relations between the Islamic world, Arabs and East and West, France, Great Britain and the United States.
In 1408, he became the rabbinic leader of Algerian Jewry, earning widespread recognition for his legal rulings in Spain, North Africa, France, and Italy.
He was a uniquely good and decent man, voice of reason, intellectual honesty, acclaimed scholar of Islam, citizen of the world, one who found evil and tried to right it, knew of justice and tried to attain it, had a conscience and felt morally compelled to follow it.
At its centre is the episode of the so-called satanic verses, in which the prophet first proclaims a revelation requiring the adoption of three of the old polytheistic deities, but later renounces this as an error induced by the Devil.
Effect on sales Within hours, Alms for Jihad became one of the hundred most popular titles on Amazon.com and eBay in the United States.
He was lecturer in Economic History with reference to the Middle East at SOAS (1966–84) and reader in the History of the Near and Middle East (1984–86).
63–88 Patricia Crone, "Barefoot and Naked: What Did the Bedouin of the Arab Conquests Look Like?", in Muqarnas Vol.
Naipaul takes the view that "The British period--two hundred years in some places, less than a hundred years in others--was a time of Hindu regeneration." Reception Beyond Belief has been criticized notably by Eqbal Ahmad, who regarded its view of Islam as erroneous.
Specifically, he argues that European nations have given up defending themselves and rely on the United States for their defense.
Muawiyah I (traditionally described as the first Umayyad Caliph), was the first historical ruler of the Arab Empire, and arose as a warlord/strongman from the other foederati.
Islam is also a political ideology that preaches violence and applies its agenda by force." "No one can be a true Muslim and a true American simultaneously.
Biography Rippin was Professor of History and Dean of the Faculty of Humanities at the University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.
More than 14 people were killed, after monasteries, shops and houses were burned down across the city.
Contents Kasravi has written his views based on sources from the period when first Alids movement was formed.
These depictions such as those in The Song of Roland represent Muslims worshiping Muhammad (spelt e.g.
Moreover, Muḥammad could only speak Arabic, whereas the Apostles had been given the gift of tongues at Pentecost.
Career His academic interests included history, higher education, culture, politics and foreign policy.
After gaining entrance by pretending to be Muslim, Emerson said that he found tables of pro-terrorism literature from groups such as Hamas and heard speeches calling for death to Americans.
York portrays "whiteness" as being tied to weakness, both physical and spiritual, calling it "Albinism, a curse which was given to Canaan and his descendants, [...] a sign of recessive or weak genes"; in comparison, melanin is called "the same thing that colors this planet Qi, now called Earth".
Sansal has worked as a teacher, consultant, business leader, and senior official in Algeria’s Ministry of Industry.
He gave a succinct description of his job as "the correction of errors in texts." Bellamy's approach makes him a representative of the Revisionist School of Islamic Studies.
We cannot go into the technical details of his methodology, but it allows Luxenberg, to the probable horror of all Muslim males dreaming of sexual bliss in the Muslim hereafter, to conjure away the wide-eyed houris promised to the faithful in Surah XLIV.54; LII.20, LV.72, and LVI.22.
Johannes Juliaan Gijsbert "Hans" Jansen (17 November 1942 – 5 May 2015) was a Dutch politician, scholar of contemporary Islam and author.
I treated them, and I remembered when I was raped." Nasrin has in this and in her other books written about women rights in Bangladesh: "Girls suffer, especially in Muslim countries," she said.
He suggests the possibility of something like a three-state solution in the form of a Palestinian confederation with Jordan.
Description In the book, Spencer discusses issues relating to radical Islam, Jihad, and Islamic terrorism, and claims that these are more serious threats to the non-Muslim world than the media and world leaders accept.
Majid says: "Refusing to name a problem, and failing to recognize it, is never a good way to solve it".
The ruling coalition fast-tracked the amendments through parliament, limiting the time for debate and preventing the draft law from being reviewed by experts and others usually involved in the process.
Trouw journalist Eildert Mulder noted that the ex-Muslims' testimonies had a lot in common with those of ex-Christians.
Covering Islam deals with issues during and after the Iranian hostage crisis, and how the Western media has speculated on the realities of Islamic life.
Conviction She was in 1981 convicted under § 135a for having spread flyers that included strong criticism of Islam, and for opposing the immigration to Norway of guest workers from Islamic countries.
This collects thirteen published articles listed above, as well as the following two unpublished studies: "Ḥanīfiyya and the ḥajj" and "Jesus in an early Muslim shahāda and related issues: A New perspective".
The second chapter, "El Abd, the Slaves", follows a narrative of Islam among black Americans in the 20th century, discussing figures like Noble Drew Ali, Wallace Fard Muhammad, Clarence 13X and Elijah Muhammad.
The appendix contains translations of Islamic and non-Islamic sources from the Middle Ages and Western sources of newer date.
The book claims that these Quran verses embody one of the main themes of the book: "Nor have these passages been culled at random from different chapters of the Quran with a view to making the book sound sinister.
Bendigo mosque protests In 2014, the Q Society provided information and training to a number of groups involved in the Voices of Bendigo and Stop the Mosques Bendigo protests.
Life and career Early life Kuti was born into the Ransome-Kuti family, an upper-middle-class family, on 15 October 1938, in Abeokuta, Colonial Nigeria.
Ahmed Assid (Berber languages: ⴰⵃⵎⴰⴷ ⵄⴰⵚⵉⴷ; born July 14, 1961) is a Moroccan Berber activist, a professor of philosophy, a poet, and a political activist, well known for being an active secularist.
Various Ahmadis scholars like Muhammad Ali, Maulana Sadr-ud-Din, Basharat Ahmad and also the British orientalist Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner argue that when the Quran's verses are read in context, it clearly appears that the Quran prohibits initial aggression, and allows fighting only in self-defense.
The page was subsequently unblocked, with a Facebook spokesperson saying in an email to the Observer that "the pages were removed in error and restored as soon as we were able to investigate." References External links Official website
As Duran had lost all his property during the massacre at Palma, he was forced against his will to accept a salary from the community, not having other means of subsistence.
At the instigation of his friends at the time, he traveled twice to join the Balkan war in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a Mujahid, but did not participate in the combat.
Paul Gosar, Republican from Arizona, to London to address the rallies; and lobbied Sam Brownback, the State Department's ambassador-at-large for International Religious Freedom, to raise the issue with the UK's ambassador, which he did.
However, the more he learned, the more doubts he developed as the religion appeared to make no sense to him, demanding an incredibly high toll on Muslims' everyday life and punishing all non-Muslims with eternal torture.
As such, he participated in Ma Ba Tha's campaign in favor of laws limiting the civil rights of Muslims, and preventing them to have multiple wives, to marry Buddhist women or to have large families.
In the end, perhaps we ought to use Hagarism more as a 'what-if' exercise than as a research monograph, but it should not be ignored.
Retrieved 27 February 2020.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) External links John E.
as far as 'As many as are the angels in heaven, their intercession shall be of no avail unless after God has permitted it to whom He pleases and accepts' [Q.53:21–26] meaning, how can the intercession of their gods be of any avail with Him?
In Middle East Eye, Georgetown professor Ian Almond called the book "a staggeringly one-sided flow of statistics, interviews and examples, reflecting a clear decision to make the book a rhetorical claim that Europe is doomed to self-destruction".
The book argues that Islam did not originate in Mecca, located in western Saudi Arabia, but in northern Arabia.
It also accuses American leaders of willful complicity in facilitating the infiltration of shariah, alleging that through 'internal policy as well as public statements, U.S.
Voltaire A Philosophical Dictionary 10 Volumes, and single volume, in English from Project Gutenberg Extracts from Dictionnaire philosophique A Philosophical Dictionary from the French of M.
The refugees think that, as they are in the Netherlands, they should not have to deal with such a situation.
Alhayat TV, also known as Life TV (Arabic: قناة الحياة), is an evangelical Christian Arabic-language television channel that airs in countries in North Africa, West Asia, the Middle East, America, Canada, Australia and some of Europe.
He holds a degree in Business Administration from Insper – where he was editor-in-chief of Insper Post, the university's journal – and a supposed postgraduate degree in Economics from Mackenzie University.
The "classical jurists of Islam never remotely considered [jihad] the kind of unprovoked, unannounced mass slaughter of uninvolved civil populations".
See also Fraser Anning One Nation Katter's Australian Party Australian nationalism List of political parties in Australia Notes == References ==
Al-Kubaisi in turn claimed that Rana was a representative for the ideology of the Muslim Brotherhood in Norway.
The article has been noted as an important event in the development of a harsher climate towards immigrants in Belgium.
Pankaj Mishra's review in The New York Times described the book as "a handy digest of far-right clichés".
Apostasy and emigration Recovering from his attempt and feeling bad about distressing his family, Navabi became an even more fervent Muslim, never missing a prayer, never even looking at girls lest he become tempted, and diligently studying Islam.
Following the release of Noor's videos, local Islamic groups protested against the blogger and accused him of undermining religious harmony between Muslims and Buddhists.
From 2000 to 2005, when his wife Alexandra Colen served as a member of parliament, Beliën and Colen published a secessionist quarterly journal together entitled Secessie: Kwartaalblad voor de Studie van Separatisme en Directe Democratie.
Ajami (Arabic: فؤاد عجمي, romanized: Fuʾād ʿAjamī; September 18, 1945 – June 22, 2014) was a Lebanese-born American professor and writer on Middle Eastern issues.
Many Muslims—and Orientalists—will tell you otherwise, of course, but the fact is that a fifth of the Koranic text is just incomprehensible.
The author says he never expected to be imprisoned for his online writings, but they became so widely read that the Palestinian authorities perceived him as a threat and had him arrested.
With his approach of research Lüling was an early representative of the "Saarbrücken School" which is part of the Revisionist School of Islamic Studies.
In 2016, it was succeeded by Non-believers: Freethinkers on the Run, which dealt with the fate of apostates and freethinkers in Dutch refugee camps.
Early life Winfield Myers was born in LaFayette, Georgia and graduated from Lafayette High School in 1978.
The hymn was, in the words of a commenter on it, "an implicit challenge" to send missions to those regions.
Essays 2006: "Poste restante: Alger, lettre de colère et d'espoir à mes compatriotes", Gallimard 2007: "Petit éloge de la mémoire", Gallimard Technical literature 1986: La Combustion dans les turboréacteurs, OPU, Alger.
National Review's Jay Nordlinger, on the other hand, praised the book's "wonderfulness" and wrote: "I wish people would read The Victims' Revolution.
Blog announcement of 10 October 2011 On 10 October 2011, Jensen announced on a blog that due to having been involuntarily mixed in with the Breivik-case, he had become unemployed and was in the process of finding a new place to live.
It reduced the damages to 10,000 shekels (about $2,700) on the basis that, in the court's view, Plaut was entitled to criticize Gordon.
The New English Review is an online monthly magazine of cultural criticism, published from Nashville, Tennessee, since February 2006.
She left a university position in human rights research and teaching in the 1980s to help establish the group Women Living Under Muslim Laws (in 1984) and become its first international coordinator.
Since 1998, the Felabration festival, an idea pioneered by his daughter Yeni Kuti, is held each year at the New Afrika Shrine to celebrate the life of this music legend and his birthday.
After an introduction in Part One, Part Two focuses on the difficulty of establishing a reliable Qur'anic text, while Part Three claims to detail the Jewish, Christian, and Zoroastrian sources of the Qur'an.
The book describes his five-month journey in 1995 revisiting four Muslim countries: Indonesia, Iran, Pakistan and Malaysia.
Meyebela, My Bengali Girlhood is a 1998 autobiographical book by Bangladeshi doctor, turned feminist writer Taslima Nasrin.
The first major influence on the Philosophical Dictionary is Voltaire's visit to England, which gave him the opportunity to compare the problems in France with a place that had free press and to become better acquainted with important and influential thinkers such as Locke and Newton.
Synopsis Islam’s Non Believers explores the experiences of ex-Muslims worldwide through following the work of Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain, a support and campaigning group founded by Iranian-born human rights activist Maryam Namazie.
He joined the Islamist Al Adl Wa Al Ihssane organization at a young age, then the Movement of Unicity and Reform, another Islamist organization in Morocco.
Her actions were met with an impassioned speech by then-leader of the government in the senate, George Brandis.
In March 2021, her Twitter account was briefly suspended after a mass reporting campaign by the people harassing her.
The cartoonist also auctioned an overtly Islamophobic work depicting the rape of a woman in a niqab by her son-in-law.
The film premiered in a screening at Vika cinema in Oslo by the free speech organisation Fritt Ord on 25 November 2010, and was shown on national television by TV 2 on 29 November.
Dwikhandito ("Split in two") is an autobiographical book of Bengali novelist and poet Taslima Nasrin, published in 2003.
References External links Paul David Gaubatz blog Muslim Mafia on Google Books Gaubatz interview on WHO (AM) "Muslim Brotherhood 'Conspiracy' to Subvert America", Paul Sperry speaking about book, October 16, 2009
Patricia Crone, Meccan Trade and the Rise of Islam (1987) In Meccan Trade and the Rise of Islam, Patricia Crone argues that Mecca could not have been a hub of overland trade from Southern Arabia to Syria during the time of Muhammad, for several reasons.
Mecca was only a secondary sanctuary; the initial gathering of Hagarenes and Jews took place rather somewhere in north-west Arabia, north of Medina.
The ads were also run on Philadelphia's SEPTA transit system, and Washington, D.C.'s WMATA transit system.
The Quest for the Historical Muhammad (2000) is an anthology of 15 studies examining the origins of Islam and the Quran, edited by Ibn Warraq.
He starts with the Quran, the religious text of Islam; he notes that it contains little details about Muhammad, and often the stories are told indirectly or incompletely.
According to herself in her appeal, her main concern was to stop the immigration of guest workers from Islamic countries, to fight the growth of Islam; including to work against the plans of the building of a Mosque in Oslo.
He asserts that a direct reading of the Koran and texts that interpret it leads to Islamic extremism.
In fact large parts of the documentary Obsession: Radical Islam's War Against the West written by Wayne Kopping and Raphael Shore were copied.
Savage goes on to reference religious passages from the Qur'an which he interprets to promote killing non-believers.
This means that the earliest texts about Islamic Law were written 200 years after the founding of Islam itself.
Bail of Duke University described it as a "pseudo-academic" journal with editorial board members who share an ideological outlook, adding that while it appears to present legitimate academic research, it is regularly criticized "as a channel for anti-Muslim polemics".
The government of Pakistan previously banned Spencer's book, The Truth About Muhammad, in 2007, citing "objectionable material" as the cause.
In October 2018, the website falsely claimed that a Swedish Christmas concert had been cancelled, so as to not offend Muslims.
He additionally produced music videos with atheistic themes, some of them subtitled or translated to other languages such as Arabic and English.
Editor Rebecca Bynum was a long-time collaborator with Robert Spencer, a noted far-right Islamophobe activist, before heralding NER.
Several Bangladeshi and Indian writers called the book a "fictitious fantasy" about sexual encounters.
Meccan Trade And The Rise Of Islam is a 1987 book written by scholar and historiographer of early Islam Patricia Crone.
It argues that the need to legitimize the community and affirm its standing to the outside world influenced the narrative which became woven into the Arab chronicles in the late 7th to the 10th century.
Summary The work recounts the life of Al-Husseini up to 2015 and was released just after the Charlie Hebdo shooting.
Use by NYPD for training The film was used to train New York Police Department officers during required counterterrorism training.
The now young and beautiful captive Palmira has become the object of Mahomet's desires and jealousy.
32 police reports were filed against Yee for his 2015 video, while another police report was made against alleged obscene material on Yee's blog, which contained an image titled "Lee Kuan Yew buttfucking Margaret Thatcher".
See also Brickyard Brickworks – Factory where bricks are made Charcoal clamp – Covered fire for producing charcoalPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Storage clamp – Type of storage of agricultural products References External links Brick clamps
Overview Bizen ware has ties to Sue pottery from the Heian period in the 6th century, and made its appearance during the Kamakura period of the 14th century, when changes in lifestyles have led to a demand for hard, durable and practical pottery for everyday use.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Kagawa) References External links Takamatsu City official site (in Japanese) Kagawa Prefecture homepage (in Japanese)
In the manufacture of float glass, a lehr oven is a long kiln with an end-to-end temperature gradient, which is used for annealing newly made glass objects that are transported through the temperature gradient either on rollers or on a conveyor belt.
It was constructed in the Keichō era (1596 - 1615) by Katō Junpei, a potter from Mino Province who had apprenticed at the Karatsu ware kilns in Kyushu.
Owen was worried that his lands would be confiscated under the Plantation of Ulster so he made representations to the Lords of the Council in Whitehall, London.
After the calcination process, the materials go to the sintering process in the kiln, which is located at the bottom of the tower.
The Cowell Lime Works, in Santa Cruz, California, was a manufacturing complex that quarried limestone, produced lime and other limestone products, and manufactured wood barrels for transporting the finished lime.
Internal heat exchangers Heat exchange in a rotary kiln may be by conduction, convection and radiation, in descending order of efficiency.
See also List of World Heritage Sites in South Korea Joseon white porcelain Korean pottery and porcelain References External links Media related to Gangjin Kiln Sites at Wikimedia Commons UNESCO "World Heritage In Korea" (PDF).
Each kiln is built semi-underground into the slope of a hill, and are a stepless form of the traditional anagama kiln.
A progressive development in technique has been identified, with more refined pieces being produced by about 1240.
The kiln is located beyond the sign and is a large rectangular structure built into the hill of approximately 8m long x 3.6m wide x 2.4m high.
NY-367, "Frey House, State Route 5 (Grand Street), Palatine Bridge, Montgomery County, NY", 2 photos, 2 data pages, supplemental material
1.3%), among the 2,267 ballots cast by the township's 2,832 registered voters, for a turnout of 80.0% (vs.
Excavations at the site From 1998 to 2001 the Hangzhou Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology [杭州市文物考古所] excavated the Laohudong (Tiger Cave) Kiln.
Initially the kilns were fired with wood, but during the Northern Song period (960–1127) there was a general switch to coal, easily found in north China, which required a smaller fire box, but the introduction of saggars to protect the pieces from gritty coal ash.
The Ōyamazaki Tile Kiln was located in the southwestern tip of Kyoto Prefecture, at a strategic point for water and land transportation.
The Copper Mine Hotel began operations during the 1860s to support the growing population with both accommodation and as a pub.
The firing chamber and combustion chamber are connected by a barrier with six holes located along its bottom.
Modern saggars are made of alumina ceramic, cordierite ceramic, mullite ceramic silicon carbide and in special cases from zirconia.
4d., to Wony McThomas McKernan, comprising the modern-day townlands of Ned, Doogary and Greaghacholea.
The Kiln Site in Jinseo-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 진서리 요지; Hanja: 扶安鎭西里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Jinseo-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
The earthen basins are believed to be storage places for clay, and the site of the pit dwelling to be a workshop.
It consists of 1000 houses grouped in three sectors: the Village Centre, Lower Peters Village and Upper Peters Village.
However, no remains of the post-Heian period buildings have been confirmed, and no medieval roof tiles have been excavated.
The Hizen Pottery Kiln Sites (肥前陶器窯跡) refers to Edo Period kilns located in the cities of Takeo, Taku and Karatsu, Saga Prefecture, Japan.
Radiocarbon dating of shards found at the site mark it as the northernmost known site at which this type of Sue pottery is known to have been produced.
The Hongō Haniwa Kiln ruins (本郷埴輪窯跡, Hongō haniwa kama ato) is an archaeological site with the ruins of an ancient Kofun period kiln located in what is now the Hongō neighborhood of the city of Fujioka, Gunma Prefecture in the northern Kantō region of Japan.
Hiking, fishing (depending on season), seasonal camping (including RV), birdwatching, and a few horse dog-friendly and mountain biking trails, and shopping at the Mountain Parks Nature Store await visitors to this park.
When it was built is unknown but it has been established that it is likely it was constructed in the mid-1850s.
Various feudal lords, most notably Gotō Ienobu, lord of Takeo, brought potters back from the Korean Peninsula during the Japanese invasion of Korea from 1592-1598, leading to production areas expanding throughout Hizen.
The site has been excavated since 1998 by the Goshogawara Board of Education, and of the 40 kiln sites, 13 were in good preservation and qualified for protection as a National Historic Site.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education Archived 2021-04-27 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese) Hitachinaka City official site (in Japanese)
The manor house in Nagykovácsi was built in first half of the 19th century by the local Teleki family.
West Branch The West Branch, 8.0 miles (12.9 km) long, rises near Kelton and flows south and east through New London Township, gradually turning to the east where it meets the Middle Branch to form the main stem.
These were found to be a type of noborigama kiln, utilizing the natural slope of the hill, with a total length of ten meters.
Overview The Konda Hakuchō site is located in between the Konda Mitoyama Kofun (tomb of Emperor Ōjin) and the Hakayama Kofun in the Furuichi Kofun Cluster, and was the location where the thousands of haniwa used in these, and other burial mounds in the area.
The site consists of nine flat kilns and three climbing kilns arranged in two tiers, the upper tier being the climbing kilns and the lower tier being the flat kilns.
Unearthed relics include eaves tiles, flat tiles, round tiles, and letter tiles, which were dated to the Hakuho period.
At the same time many other kilns around Arita produced wares in the same style, some using the nigoshide body.
Also known as the Waterman Coking Ovens, they were listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) in 1980.
The kilns each have three openings: a top opening, a door at ground level, and a rear window with a ramp for wood wagons.
The pottery failed in the mid-19th century, and the kiln is one of the few remaining elements of the Rockingham manufactory.
Drumhurrin, an Anglicisation of the Gaelic ‘Droim Shoirn’, meaning The Hill-Ridge of the Lime-Kiln or Furnace, is a townland in the civil parish of Templeport, County Cavan, Ireland.
Excavated shards fall within the historical range of the Southern Song (1127-1279) to the Yuan dynasty (1271-1368).
At the beginning of the twentieth century a local historian, Tokizane Mokusui, collected a large amount of Sue ware shards from the vicinity of the ruins and published a research journal, which led to recognition of the existence of the ruins in academia.
Two methods were used for this: 'A la chenille', packed in bags as general cargo via a conveyor belt.
Hurstville Historic District is a nationally recognized historic district located north of Maquoketa, Iowa, United States.
No glazing was used, but some works have a natural whitish glaze caused by ash present within the kiln.
The style was also adapted in Germany and Austria by the Du Paquier manufactory and in France at Chantilly, Mennecy and Saint-Cloud porcelain.
The total (harmful) air emissions produced by wood kilns, including their heat source, can be significant.
Overview In 1180 AD, during the Genpei War of the late Heian period, the great temple of Tōdai-ji was burned down by Heike forces.
The Dodo site contains two nobori-gama kilns built side-by-side on a hill, utilizing a south-facing slope.
Purpose of the Company The objectives of the company were as follows: Manufacture, sale and export of lime, cement and hydraulic products.
The site was the largest production area of Sue ware in western Japan, and the Sue ware from these kilns evolved into the current Bizen ware.
In 1995, he participated in Fire and Clay, a symposium of international clay sculptors held in Iksan.
Four of these sites were collectively designated a National Historic Sites in 1940, and an additional six sites were added in 2005.
Upon extinguishing the fire, the furnace opening and the flue were sealed to starve the kiln of oxygen, causing the iron contained in the clay to turn into a characteristic shade of dark gray.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Tourist Information (in Japanese) Ibaraki town tourism site (in Japanese) Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education (in Japanese) Ibaraki town official site (in Japanese)
Other lime kilns The Griggsville Landing Lime Kiln is one of only a few old lime kilns preserved across the state of Illinois.
It is estimated that these kilns date from the 6th century to the early 7th century, and supplied haniwa for use in kofun burial mounds across a wide region of the Kantō area.
It is a "single masonry 'perpetual-burning' limekiln", built of limestone blocks on its exterior and with brick in its interior.
Following the Act for the Settlement of Ireland in 1652, land held by supporters of the Irish Rebellion of 1641 and the subsequent Catholic Confederation, was forfeited; this included the Stack's land.
Pinxton is a village and civil parish in Derbyshire on the western boundary of Nottinghamshire, England, just south of the Pinxton Interchange at Junction 28 of the M1 motorway where the A38 road meets the M1.
In the Japanese cases a traditional regional style of pottery, produced at numerous actual kiln sites, is meant.
Many fragments of identical tiles have been excavated from the Tarumi temple ruins, located approximately two kilometers away.
Eastburn–Jeanes Lime Kilns Historic District is a national historic district located near Newark, New Castle County, Delaware.
DE-2, "Eastburn–Jeanes Limekilns, On Papermill Road & on Pike Creek Road, Newark vicinity, New Castle County, DE", 4 photos, 2 measured drawings, 14 data pages
Some other examples are the Lyman Scott House, in Summer Hill and the New Philadelphia Town Site, somewhere near Barry, Illinois.
Kawara (瓦) roof tiles made of fired clay were introduced to Japan from Baekche during the 6th century along with Buddhism.
Demand for bricks grew exponentially as the economy prospered, thus the government integrated all existing kilns in Taiwan in 1913 to form the Taiwan Renga Company (Japanese: 臺灣煉瓦會社打狗工場).
The subsequent owners, the Brameld family, built the Rockingham Kiln, and other structures on the site, in 1815.
It was a major lime supplier in the state of Iowa for masonry building and bridge construction in the Midwest.
The crackle arises during cooling, when the coefficient of expansion differs between the glaze and the body.
They are one type of "cross-draught" kilns, where the flames travel more or less horizontally, rather than up from or down to the floor.
A third expansion occurred around 530 AD, during which time the haniwa for the neighboring Imashirozuka Kofun were made.
The conjoined streams turn southwest and then back to the east as they loop around Bread and Cheese Island, formed between the Red Clay, White Clay, and Hershey Run by a backchannel now filled.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saitama) References External links Hatoyama town home page (in Japanese) Shinuma Kiln Site home page (in Japanese)
It can probably be explained by the fact that as the article was for a Sydney newspaper, reference was made, for ease of identification, to the best known large river in the vicinity.
The first reference to the Pipers Creek limestone deposits was made in November 1831 when Surveyor James Ralfe reported finding a deposit of "superior quality" limestone six miles from the head of Pipers Creek.
The Atsumi Kiln (渥美窯 Atsumigama) is a generic name for a historic kiln that dates from the late Heian period to the Kamakura period (early 12th century until the 13th century).
Therefore, it is generally believed that the Kurisuno tile kiln site was the core of the complex, and that the surrounding tile kilns were only in operation temporarily.
These require some ingenuity of design, since the tyre must fit the shell snugly, but also allow thermal movement.
Imitations Guan ware is "the most frequently copied of all Chinese wares", and the imitations began immediately, at the many southern kilns producing Longquan celadon and other wares.
A corridor from the Middle Gate surrounds the main hall and town pagodas, and connects with the lecture hall.
Fuller after the Nez Perce Indian Reservation was opened for homesteading in 1895, and his home is included.
Australia Lime Kiln Remains, Ipswich Pipers Creek Lime Kilns Raffan's Mill and Brick Bottle Kilns There were a number of lime kilns at Wool Bay, South Australia.
A temporary "bag wall" might be built at the front of the kiln, once loaded, to protect the wares from the direct flames, and enclose the fire.
Next to the park's entrance kiosk, all three known types of redwood trees, the Coast Redwood, the Giant Sequoia, and the Dawn Redwood (the latter two not native to the area) are planted together, providing a unique place to instantly compare and contrast the members of this family of trees.
The earliest mention of his list is from a late Edo period book from 1857 called "Historical Investigation into Domestic Ceramics" (Honchō tōki kōshō).
Latitude and longitude coordinates are provided for many National Register properties and districts; these locations may be seen together in an online map.
The site is approximately a 15-minute walk from Tofurōmae Station on the Nishitetsu Tenjin Ōmuta Line; however, the kiln remains have been backfilled and are lso located under the surface of the reservoir.
The total output from the Minera area quarries was estimated, in 1859, to be around 300,000 tons, with 200,000 tons of this converted to lime.
The southern portion of the stream, near Newark is in the Atlantic Coastal Plain, a relatively flat area that is dotted with large tidal wetlands.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Osaka) References External links Osaka Tourist Information Takatsuki tourism site (in Japanese)
The expedition stopped to build Cantonment Missouri, a winter camp along the river bottom below the bluffs.
There items indicate that in addition to jars, plates, and bottles, the kilns also produced items such as ceramic coffins, Shibi roof ornaments and inkstones.
Semi-subterranean in construction, the groundhog kiln featured a door leading into a long, low passage of brick or rock construction, with a stack or chimney poking out of the ground uphill.
Each pit is built in front of an artificial embankment that joins the hill contour but drops sharply on both sides.
The Continental Clay Brick Plant in Martinsburg, West Virginia includes a number of beehive brick kilns.
The Six Ancient Kilns -JAPAN HERITAGE- The Six Oldest Pottery Centers in Japan 古丹波 その歴史と美 | Old Tamba Pottery Museum Six Ancient Kilns of Japan
During the 570s under the reign of Emperor Bidatsu, the king of Baekche sent six people to Japan skilled in various aspects of Buddhism, including a temple architect.
These same types of tiles have been excavated from the nearby Shimotsuke Yakushi-ji temple ruins and the Shimotsuke Kokubun-ji ruins.
This temperature differential results in mechanical stresses throughout the molten glass, which may be sufficient to cause the material to crack as it cools to ambient temperature or to make it susceptible to cracking during later use, either spontaneously or due to mechanical or thermal shock.
In the churchyard, is the grave of Walter Burke, who was present on board HMS Victory at the battle of Trafalgar and the man who held Nelson in his arms as he died.
Another type known as downdraft bottle oven directed the hot gases back through the kiln before venting them through flues in the base of the oven.
Harris Farm is a historic home and farm complex located at Walkersville, Frederick County, Maryland, United States.
The Muromachi period was a golden age for Suzu ware, but it soon went into decline, and vanished by the time of the Sengoku period, unable to complete with large-scale production in areas such as Tokoname.
Nukata-ji was founded by Prince Shotoku in the Asuka period and claims to be the predecessor of the great complex of Daian-ji in Heijō-kyō.
The Muneyoshi Tile Kiln ruins are located on a slightly elevated slope of a hilly area surrounded by farmland.
Owen McKiernan was only partly successful in his claim as in the Plantation of Ulster, by grant dated 4 June 1611, King James VI and I granted 100 acres or 2 poles (a poll is the local name for townland) of land in Tullyhunco at an annual rent of £1 1s.
As Sue ware items from these kilns have also unearthed from the capitals of Heijō-kyō and Fujiwara-kyō in Nara Prefecture, this suggests that the kiln was not simply a local kiln, but had an official function as well.
Council Bluff: frontier post Fifteen years later, in 1819, President James Monroe dispatched a military expedition (the Yellowstone Expedition, led by Colonel Henry Atkinson) to establish a series of forts along the Missouri.
The design allowed the stack to draw heated air, flames, and ash through the pottery grouped inside and created the draft needed to generate the intense heat required to create stoneware.
It was built in 1808 and consists of a double-pile, center-hall-plan main block with a 1+1⁄2-story, stone kitchen wing added in 1882, and sun porch dated to 1931.
In 1971 the craft technique was designated an Important Intangible Cultural Property by the Japanese government; a double climbing kiln in Arita used for the firing of Kakiemon has also been designated a National Historic Site.
Characteristics The kilns were normally made of brick, and are one type of "cross-draught" kilns, where the flames travel more or less horizontally, rather than up from or down to the floor.
Alexander Emanuel Agassiz purchased most of Day's collection (over 4 short tons (3.6 t)) for the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University in 1881.
Gallery References External links Media related to Laverstock ware at Wikimedia Commons Photographs of Laverstock ware by Craig Rycroft on Flickr: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
The pottery produced from the site has been found in at archaeological sites to the south in Akita, and Iwate Prefecture and north in Hokkaidō, indicating ongoing trade across the Tsugaru Strait from the earliest times.
A TLUD pyrolyzes organic material, including wood or manure, and uses a reburner to eliminate volatile byproducts of pyrolization.
The south half of the site has been levelled and the perimeter is identifiable only with difficulty.
Site is divided into two roughly equal portions by a field bank running NW-SE, the area SW of which has been levelled.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saitama) References External links Higashimatsuyama City official home page (in Japanese)
Dannemand died at Aastrup on 12 March 1888 and is buried in the graveyard of the local Soderup Church.
Suzu ware products were typically made for everyday use, typically storage pots, water jars, or ribbed mortars used for grating food.
Overview The Funasako kiln ruins are located at the northern end of a hill connected to a spur extending north from the Hiko Mountains.
One of the rarest plants in the world, the dolomite flax (Linum dolomiticum), an ancient breed of shrub, is preserved on a strictly protected 10-acre (40,000 m2) plot in the hills between Nagykovácsi and the neighbouring village of Pilisszentiván.
San Juan Island is the second-largest and most populous of the San Juan Islands in northwestern Washington, United States.
It was in operation from the 1590s to the 1660s and at its height had up to 30 workshops with a round 300 craftsmen.
It may consist of refractory bricks or cast refractory concrete, or may be absent in zones of the kiln that are below approximately 250 °C (482 °F).
Heritage sites in Stellenbosch town Heritage sites near Stellenbosch town See also Cape Dutch architecture Heritage Western Cape Stellenbosch Museum References External links The South African Heritage Resources Information System – Declared Sites
Properties and districts split between multiple jurisdictions display the names of all jurisdictions.
Generally the firing was even across the various parts of the chamber compared to the dragon kiln, but the load far smaller, with saggars perhaps only hundreds of pieces, rather than the tens of thousands a large dragon kiln could take for a single firing.
By observing the smoke and its colour, the charcoal burner knows whether there is too much or too little air.
The Akahogi Tile Kiln site (赤保木瓦窯跡, Akahogi Kawara Kama-ato) is the remains of a late Nara period, early Heian period roof tile and pottery production site located in the Akahogi neighborhood of the city of Takayama, Gifu Prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan.
The site is located in the Irago neighborhood of the city of Tahara, Aichi Prefecture in the Tōkai region of Japan.
Hurst organized the Maquoketa and Hurstville Railroad in 1888 to ship the burned lime instead of hauling it by wagon.
Despite the opposition of many villagers, a housing estate was built over them, which increased the village's population by a large percentage.
Its chief geographical features are small streams, forestry plantations, a dug well and spring wells.
Local people converted the tomb into a lime kiln, and it contained rings, gold, silver, painted vases and bones.
In an excavation conducted in 1989 , the remains of four tile kilns were found, in the form of flat kilns made from hollowed out ground, with a length of 3.3 meters, and a width of 1.1 meters and depth of 1.2 meters.
The American International School of Budapest chose Nagykovácsi as the site for its new campus in 2000.
As a result of archaeological excavations, it was estimated that the kiln ruins were distributed in an area of about four kilometers from east-to-west and about 4.8 km from north-to-south, and there were originally about 500 kilns.
A large Douglas fir, which according to tree ring dating sprouted after 1870, grew from the rubble between Kiln 1 and Kiln 2, severely damaging both kilns.
The transition to Portland cement, which could be used to manufacture mortar superior to lime-based mortar, began the decline of the lime industry after the start of the 20th century.
The temple site is about a 20-minute walk from Tondabayashi Station on the Kintetsu Railway Kintetsu Nagano Line.
In particular, it was discovered that tiles from this site were used at the now-extinct temple of Yōfuku-ji in Nikaidō, Kamakura.
The 32-acre (130,000 m2) Historic District is located within the University of California, Santa Cruz campus, to either side of the main campus entrance.
A unique feature of this kiln was the presence of a second firing box located midway along the loading shelf; a side door would have provided access.
The site is maintained as "Shikinzan Park" and is about a 20-minute walk from Kishibe Station on the JR West Tokaido Main Line.
All of the machinery was in place as were other pieces of equipment used in the brick-making process.
The site is sensitive as it lies adjoining a Site of Special Scientific Interest and the North Downs AONB.
See also National Register of Historic Places listings in Providence County, Rhode Island References 41°53′49.7″N 71°27′33″W 41°55′15.4″N 71°27′13.7″W 41°55′0″N 71°25′37″W
Washington State Ferries serves Friday Harbor, which is San Juan Island's major population center, the San Juan County seat, and the only incorporated town in the islands.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefecture Board of Education official site (in Japanese) Yūki city home page (in Japanese)
The oven itself is inside the hovel and is cylindrical in shape with domed roof and foot (30cm) thick walls.
Fossils of sponge bone needles contained in the clay that rise to the surface during firing, forming white needle-like patterns, distinguish the products from other kiln sites.
This was uneconomical compared to the works across the river at Snodland, and Cuxton and Halling, with its rail connection on the Medway Valley line Peters Village Before 1999, a large area of allotments were situated between the school and the recreation ground.
John King John King is the inventor of a mining safety device, a detaching hook, which successfully completed trials in 1873 at Pinxton No.1 colliery.
He had recently been ennobled by Frederick III in conjunction with the introduction of Absolute monarchy.
It has been known since the early twentieth century as a ruined temple site, as old roof tiles were scattered on ground, but it was not excavated until 1959.
This kiln still exists and is one of three that were purpose-built for lime burning left in the UK: another is located at Langcliffe in Yorkshire, another is located at Llanymynech Limeworks.
In 2011 its population was approximately 1500, which has increased since 2017, with substantial housing development to the south of the village.
These labourers transferred unfired ceramic vessels, or greenware, from drying areas or glost shops into protective fireclay boxes called saggars.
A brick clamp is a traditional method of baking bricks, done by stacking unbaked bricks with fuel under or among them, then igniting the fuel.
External links Hangzhou Southern Song Guan Kiln Museum A Handbook of Chinese Ceramics from The Metropolitan Museum of Art
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Okayama) Irago Tōdai-ji Tile Kiln ruins References External links Okayama city official site Okayama Prefecture site
The risers of the stairs are lined with large pillars, and the upper surface is covered with round tiles and half-cut flat tiles.
Local farmer and philanthropist Caroline Foster has said it is likely that Munsee farmers cultivated corn in the summertime in the fields of the Washington Valley.
The earliest inventory to include Japanese porcelain in Europe was made at Burghley House in 1688; these included a standing elephant with its trunk raised and a model of two wrestlers.
Lime kilns are common to the area for agriculture to counter acidic soils, souterrains are associated with the Iron Age and some nearby metalworks date back to the Bronze Age.
It is now among the last in a region which was dominated by coalmining and limestone mining for generations until the 1960s.
The base of Mount Takekoba, in what is now the city of Takeo, became the main center of production, with about 90 kilns remaining to this day.
The periodic lime kiln is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, a designation it gained in August 1999.
In particular, the semi-mythical Chai ware, and Longquan celadon often feature in earlier groupings, and Jun ware is often omitted.
The haniwa recovered from this location were in a wide variety of styles, including cylindrical, "morning glory-shaped", shield-shaped, horse-shaped, as well as anthropomorphic in the form of a warrior, a figure blowing a whistle, a figure holding a vase, and other configurations.
The jagama (snake kiln or dragon kiln) is related to anagama, noborigama, and waritake kilns, and was used extensively in China since at least the 3rd century CE.
Most of the Sadang-ri kilns date to around the 12th and 13th centuries, although they are in poorer condition, as many of them had been converted to farmland in the past.
The ruins of four tile kilns were confirmed by a survey in 1976 lined up on the northern slope of the plateau, along with a clay excavation pit and the foundations of workshops.
1993 – Heritage assessment report focusing on the industrial archaeological values of the site was commissioned by Blue Circle Cement and completed by Peter Fenwick and Kate Holmes.
This corresponds to the name of a temple in the Shōmonki, a medieval chronicle of the life of Taira no Masakado.
Hasami ware was a major source of revenue for Ōmura Domain, where they produced the biggest quantity of porcelain in the country in the latter Edo period.
Equipment is installed to trap this dust, typically in the form of electrostatic precipitators or bag filters.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Miyagi) References External links Miyagi Prefecture official site Archived 2015-07-08 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)
Following excavations in starting in 1996 it is now thought that the site has been found, as the Laohudong or Tiger Cave Kiln [老虎洞窑] on the outskirts of the city.
Island life San Juan Island is considered a "small town" community, in that it is relatively quiet rural living with few distractions or incidents aside from tourism.
Overview The Suenosue kiln site is located on a southern slope of a hill and is believed to date from the 6th century.
It was produced in many locations around Japan by the 8th century, around the time of the founding of kokubunji national temple system in 741.
References External links History of Hoffman Preston Grange tour site Archived 2018-09-08 at the Wayback Machine Evaluation of Hoffman Kiln Technology
With the archaeological excavation of this large kiln site by the Tahara Town Board of Education in 1964, it became clear that a type of black pottery of unknown origin which had been discovered in many locations in the Tōkai region originated from this location.
Pronunciation The word 'kiln' was originally pronounced 'kil' with the 'n' silent, as is referenced in Webster's Dictionary of 1828 and in English Words as Spoken and Written for Upper Grades by James A.
For additional provincial heritage sites declared by Heritage Western Cape, the provincial heritage resources authority of the Western Cape Province of South Africa, please see the entries at the end of the list.
The combustion chamber for firing roof tiles is 6.15 meters long, and there are 17 stages on which tiles are placed, and there are few kilns in Kyushu that have a combustion chamber with stages.
As can be inferred from the name of the place where it is located, the entire area has long been known as the site of a Sue ware factory from ancient times.
A granite marker reads: Charcoal Kilns were built by Moses Byrne, 1869, to supply the pioneer smelters in the Utah Valley.
The detaching hook prevents a cage raising miners from a shaft from being raised up and over the headstock pulley when raised from a mine shaft.
Weekenders took the train into nearby Blairstown through the 1940s to stay at such places as the North Shore Inn, The Casino, and The Dove Island Inn (now a private home).
Overview The Kosugimaruyama Site located in the southwestern part of the Imizu Hills, in the western part of the Toyama Plain.
This includes many packaging processes: fabrication, cleaning, filling, sealing, combining, labeling, overwrapping, palletizing.
Methods Permanent fastening binds items by driving the staple through the material and into an anvil, a small metal plate that bends the ends, usually inward.
Including the cost of software, peripherals and systems engineering, the annual turnover for robot systems is estimated to be US$48.0 billion in 2018.
Some other food items sealed using ultrasonic welding include candy bar wrappers, frozen food packages and beverage containers.
Overflow pressure fillers are the most popular machines with beverage makers, while gravity filling machines are most cost effective.
The main motor may have frequency control of motor speed to improve speed regulation and save electricity.
Parallel architecture A parallel manipulator is designed so that each chain is usually short, simple and can thus be rigid against unwanted movement, compared to a serial manipulator.
This allows the printer to adjust the intake of label stock so the print aligns correctly with the media.
Welding techniques A number of techniques are used for welding of semi-finished plastic products as given below: Hot gas welding Hot gas welding, also known as hot air welding, is a plastic welding technique using heat.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Media related to Bottling plants at Wikimedia Commons Liquid Filling Lines
Mechanical Mechanical type machines use the toggle system for building up tonnage on the clamps of the machine.
RFID readers These are specialized label printers that print and encode at the same time on RFID transponders (tags) enclosed in paper or printable synthetic materials.
The slimmed-down SIG Beverages unit, manufacturer of PET bottle blow-molding machinery, was sold off to the German company Salzgitter AG in March 2008.
New products like the clearance gauge are able to let even novice users adjust seamers and optimize them, as well as locate problems with broken/damaged tooling, shank/bushing issues, seamer adjustment issues, or broken bearings.
They identified the benefits and reduced costs which came from sharing information about shipments with suppliers, hauliers and end users.
Today this kind of machine, thanks to its high speed and accuracy, has achieved widespread adoption in the packaging industry and is produced worldwide by a number of manufacturers.
Types There are different types of drum handlers available in today's market; forklift attachment, hydraulic drum lifter, mobile drum handler, below-hook drum handler and drum rotator.
Typical staple leg lengths are 1⁄4″, 5⁄16″, 3⁄8″, 1⁄2″, 17⁄32″, and 9⁄16″, or 6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 millimetres.
Skin staples are commonly preshaped into an "M." Pressing the stapler into the skin and applying pressure onto the handle bends the staple through the skin and into the fascia until the two ends almost meet in the middle to form a rectangle.
Operational control software: provides low-level decision-making, such as where to store incoming containers, and where to retrieve them when requested.
Where static control is a factor, special materials designed to either dissipate or conduct electrical charges are used.
The machine constructs plastic bags and stand-up pouches out of a flat roll of film, fills them with product, and seals them.
Inventory Management: Barcodes help smooth inventory processes by allowing quick and accurate tracking of stock levels.
The motion subspace of lower mobility manipulators may be further decomposed into independent (desired) and dependent (concomitant) subspaces: consisting of 'concomitant' or 'parasitic' motion which is undesired motion of the manipulator.
See also Shrink tunnel Shrink wrap Hermetic seal Plastic bag Plastic welding Tensile testing Waxtite References General references Selke, S,.
A disadvantage of the roller lineshaft conveyor is that it can only be used to convey products that span at least three rollers, but rollers can be as small as 17 mm (0.67 in) in diameter and as close together as 18.5 mm (0.73 in).
See also Conveyor systems Conveyor belt Chain conveyor Line shaft References External links Media related to Roller conveyors at Wikimedia Commons
The film may be laminating film, shrink film, agricultural covering film, bags or film for textiles and clothing, and other packaging materials.
Omnidirectional scanners are most familiar through the horizontal scanners in supermarkets, where packages are slid over a glass or sapphire window.
However, this is also to prevent the use of third-party compatible label rolls, a form of digital rights management similar to inkjet printer cartridges and laser printer cartridges containing a chip to prevent the designing and manufacturing of third-party cartridges.
The embossing tape and handheld plastic embossing labeler was invented by David Souza from Oakland, California.
Omnidirectional scanners are also better at reading poorly printed, wrinkled, or even torn barcodes.
The anvil often has two settings: the first, and by far most common, is the reflexive setting, also known as the "permanent" setting.
The labels are also peeled without the natural curl that will happen when pulled from the backing paper with fingers.
Automated goods retrieval for orders: On receipt of orders, the automation system is able to immediately locate goods and retrieve them to a pick-face location.
For removing lead paint temperatures below 590 °C (863 K; 1,094 °F) are used to minimize vaporization.
Cordless scanner (or Wireless scanner) a cordless barcode scanner is operated by a battery fit inside it and is not connected to the electricity mains and transfer data to the connected device like PC.
This would ensure high weighing speed while ensuring that overfilling of the expensive ingredients was negligible.
A thermally compliant print head, in combination with the electrical properties of the ribbon and the correct rheological properties of the ribbon ink are all essential in producing a high-quality printed image.
Today the term is used more broadly for any device which can be plugged in and contribute to the stream of data coming "from the keyboard".
This configuration allows the drum to be emptied without tipping and so reduces the risk of spills and operator injury.
See also Barcode printer Barcode Computer printer Embossing tape SureThing References External links Media related to label printers at Wikimedia Commons
Operation Injection molding machine molds can be fastened in either a horizontal or vertical position.
For example, for more precise guidance, robots often contain machine vision sub-systems acting as their visual sensors, linked to powerful computers or controllers.
Tonnage is required on all machines so that the clamps of the machine do not open due to the injection pressure.
To ensure precise batch sizes and prevent overfilling, modern automated counters incorporate predictive control algorithms.
Increasing the service life of a conveyor system involves: choosing the right conveyor type, the right system design and paying attention to regular maintenance practices.
In row-forming palletizing applications loads are arranged on a row forming area and then moved onto a different area where layer forming takes place.
More sophisticated systems also pre-stretch the film before wrapping by means of fixed/variable gear ratios or other, even more sophisticated means, such as hydraulic ratios which can better take advantage of film "sweet spots", improving performance and film savings.
Depending on the magnitude of the bottling endeavor, there are many different types of bottling machinery available.
Some of the products this machine easily fills are cosmetic creams, heavy sauces, thick shampoo and hair conditioners, honey, hair gels, paste cleaners, and car wax.
Their primary operating function is to join large numbers of paper sheets together in rapid succession.
See also Heat gun References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
This equipment is commonly used in chemical and petroleum industries, as well as industries that require shipping and storing of cylindrical modules.
Personal Property inventory (for insurance and other purposes) code scanned into personal finance software when entering.
The low thermal impact on the materials involved enables a greater number of materials to be welded together.
In a ferromagnetic workpiece, plastics can be induction-welded by formulating them with metallic or ferromagnetic compounds, called susceptors.
For example, a breakfast cereal containing hazelnuts and dried fruit plus two relatively cheap ingredients, could be weighed on a multihead with say eight heads devoted to each of the more expensive components and four heads to each of the other two.
All utilities for blowing containers and for mold cooling are carried through the main shaft or the axle from which the wheel rotates about.
The system operated at a low pressure, which is practically 0.4–0.5 atm below atmosphere, and is utilized mainly in conveying light free flowing materials.
Industrial robotics took off quite quickly in Europe, with both the Swedish–Swiss company ABB Robotics and Germany's KUKA Robotics bringing robots to the market in 1973.
Together with the multi-dimensionality of the signal, this defines a subfield in signal processing as a part of computer vision.
They are often used in kitting conveyor lines to ensure all pieces belonging in the kit are present.
Extended core wrapping is the lowest initial investment stretch wrapping system as no machinery is purchased.
Fragile products Weighers with more shallow angles of descent and various cushioned inserts have made it possible to pack delicate and brittle items such as hand-made chocolates and gourmet biscuits.
In the early 1900s, several devices were developed and patented that punched and folded papers to attach them to each other without a metallic clip.
Other dispensers are stationary and may have sophisticated features to control tape usage and improve ergonomics.
This sort of technology is useful in order to receive accurate data on imperfections on a very large surface.
Certain MicroDry printers can also operate in dye-sublimation mode, using special cartridges and paper.
The mix is filled in a pouch that is made of paper or poly that is formed in a collar and the pouch gets sealed by a series of heaters and dies.
Books, general references Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
The parts are sandwiched between a fixed shaped nest (anvil) and a sonotrode (horn) connected to a transducer, and a ~20-70kHz low-amplitude acoustic vibration is emitted.
It is also often preferred in the assembly of storage media such as flash drives and computer disks because of the high volumes required.
Heat sealing is used for many applications, including heat seal connectors, thermally activated adhesives, film media, plastic ports or foil sealing.
In addition to the conversion of the site (residential, commercial, retail, gastronomy), it is still home to the company's headquarters and a production facility with 200 employees.
In the 1970s, electronic advancements introduced the "electric eye" (photoelectric sensor) to register seeds as they fell through a designated hole, though this still relied on single-file vibratory feeding.
The program in Indonesia (initiated in March 2023) established more than 150 collection points in Jakarta and Greater Jakarta Area in one year.
Use Many everyday items have stick-on labels, which were either applied by a machine or by hand, and most likely were peeled from the backing paper using some sort of label dispenser.
The industrial site at the headquarters in Neuhausen am Rheinfall is located directly on the Rhine Falls.
Variations of this method will extend the cylinder and then use air to blow the label to the product surface (tamp-blow).
Variants Color thermal printers Thermal-printing technology can be used to produce color images by adhering a wax-based ink onto paper.
Hot-plate welding equipment is typically controlled pneumatically, hydraulically, or electrically with servo motors.
Label printers have a wide variety of applications, including supply chain management, retail price marking, packaging labels, blood and laboratory specimen marking, and fixed assets management.
Label dispensers and label applicators are machines built to simplify the process of removing a label from its liner or backing tape.
Railways, Vehicles (1853–1995) The Schweizerische Waggonfabrik ("Swiss Wagon Factory") was founded in 1853 by Friedrich Peyer im Hof, Heinrich Moser, and Johann Conrad Neher.
If one were to hold a strip of used carbon ribbon up to the light, one would see an exact negative of the images that have been printed.
Often forced air is used to improve convection, sometimes focusing the heat on one component of the item.
Sometimes wash down involves rinsing with fresh water; other times it involves use of detergents and other chemicals.
The deflection allows it to traverse the barcode in a reading plane, effectively turning it into a "reading beam." To accommodate stationary items, laser scanners incorporate oscillating mirrors that provide additional deflection perpendicular to the main scanning line.
They are often used in an industrial setting to increase productivity along manufacturing or assembly lines.
Seal strength is not only relevant to opening force and package integrity, but to measuring the packaging processes’ ability to produce consistent seals.
In this method, one user holds the robot's manipulator, while another person enters a command which de-energizes the robot causing it to go into limp.
The workerbot is still the first operative humanoid factory worker worldwide that can be acquired by purchase.
Dymo Corporation is an American manufacturing company of handheld label printers and thermal-transfer printing tape as accessory, embossing tape label makers, and other printers such as CD and DVD labelers and durable medical equipment.
Laminate foils and films often are heat sealed over the top of thermoplastic medical trays, Microtiter (microwell) plates, bottles and containers to seal and/or prevent contamination for medical test devices, sample collection trays and containers used for food products.
The larger wholesale companies have mandated that any product shipped to them have accurate weight checks such that a customer can be confident that they are getting the amount of product for which they paid.
In most cases, there is a trigger from an optical (or ultrasonic) device to signal the passing of a package.
The method of wheel rotation is typically conducted through an electric motor with a "pinion" gear or small gear to or in mesh with a rotating "bull" gear or large gear.
He showed his invention at the 1876 Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where architect Merik Herron helped make the base shape of the staple, and continued to work on this and various other paper fasteners throughout the 1880s.
Draw resonance exists when the film velocity at which solidification occurs is much higher than the velocity of the melted liquid as it exits the die.
A label printer with built-in keyboard and display for stand-alone use (not connected to a separate computer) is often called a label maker.
This type of Cartoning machine is widely used for packaging foodstuffs, confectionery, medicine, cosmetics, sundry goods, etc.
They are used extensively in food-grade applications to convey dry bulk solids where sanitation, washdown, and low maintenance are essential.
For items shorter than 74 mm (2.9 in), the conveyor belt system is generally used as an alternative option.
The area is cleaned of dirt and debris with the force and dissolving power of stream of water projected from a hose.
Impulse heat sealers have heating elements (one or two) of Nichrome placed between a resilient synthetic rubber and a release surface of film or fabric.
Only a few non-Japanese companies ultimately managed to survive in this market, the major ones being: Adept Technology, Stäubli, ABB Robotics, KUKA Robotics and the Italian company Comau.
A barcode printer is a computer peripheral for printing barcode labels or tags that can be attached to, or printed directly on, physical objects.
In packaging, it is used for package fabrication such as forming tubes from flexible materials, attaching plastic closures to package forms, etc.
First developed in the late 1970s, today there are over 70 manufacturers of these types of machines worldwide.
Sortation systems: similar to conveyors but typically with higher capacity and able to divert containers more quickly.
In this position, the legs of the staple are folded outwards, away from the crossbar, resulting in the legs and crossbar being in more or less a straight line.
The SIG P210 pistol was developed in 1937 based on the French Modèle 1935, and was adopted by the Swiss military in 1949 as the "Pistole 49".
Sealing machines: heat sealer, tape, or glue units Security seals, tamper-evident bands, etc equipment Slitting machines, perforating, etc Strapping machines, banding machines, etc.
Their factory in Neuhausen am Rheinfall was originally powered by the nearby Rhine Falls and employed 150 workers, which by the mid-1860s increased to 500 workers.
This plastic is transferred into the mold through the barrel, which applies pressure as the liquid travels to ensure even distribution of plastic into the mold to totally fill the mold.
Many gummed dispensers feature a heater, which is mounted over the feed area to maintain the dispenser's water temperature.
Business areas and locations SIG manufactures aseptic carton packs, bag-in-box packaging and spouted pouches for beverages and food, increasingly based on the world’s first aluminium-layer-free aseptic packs and fully renewable materials.
Care and maintenance A conveyor system is often the lifeline to a company's ability to effectively move its product in a timely fashion.
Tie bars: The primary purpose of tie bars is to stabilize and guide the platens as they are moved to compress the mold.
Label dispensers are generally intended to dispense a label to an operator who manually applies the label to the package.
Wine bottling process The process for bottling wine is largely similar to that for bottling beer, except wine bottles differ in volumes and shapes.
Once the trigger fires, there is a delay set to allow the package to move to the "sweet spot" (center) of the weigh bed to sample the weight.
These machines are labeled "full washdown", and must have every part and component specified to survive the washdown environment.
Medication Administration: Barcodes on medication packaging assist healthcare professionals in ensuring the right medication is given to the right patient at the right dosage.
This can be with uniform thermoplastic monolayers or with materials having several layers, at least one being thermoplastic.
These mirrors function at frequencies that can vary from 0.1 Hz to about 5 Hz, ensuring that barcodes can be read at different orientations.
Other types of heavy-duty roller conveyors are gravity roller conveyors, chain-driven live roller conveyors, pallet accumulation conveyors, multi-strand chain conveyors, and chain and roller transfers.
The take-up hub consists of a bar and a liner holder/clip, which are connected to the motor on a single side-frame.
All the bar codes appearing in the photo are decoded instantly (ImageID patents and code creation tools) or by use of plugins (e.g.
For example, a line that is running with a low average weight can be complemented by another that is running with a high average weight such that the aggregate of the two lines will still comply with rules.
The Petter-Browning patent was a refinement—and John Moses Browning's last design—of the Browning Hi-Power (P35).
There are specific types of palletizers including the row-forming which were introduced in the early 1950s.
Although a wide variety of materials can be conveyed, some of the most common include food items such as beans and nuts, bottles and cans, automotive components, scrap metal, pills and powders, wood and furniture and grain and animal feed.
Software Integration software: this provides overall control of the automation machinery and allows cranes to be connected to conveyors for seamless stock movements.
When combined with a high-speed projector, fast image acquisition allows 3D measurement and feature tracking to be realized.
Business control software: provides higher-level functionality, such as identification of incoming deliveries/stock, scheduling order fulfillment, and assignment of stock to outgoing trailers.
See also Computer printer Label printer References External links Media related to Barcode printer at Wikimedia Commons
Originally developed to replace manual counting and weight-based estimation, these machines have evolved from mechanical vibratory systems to high-speed optical counters utilizing photoelectric sensors, lasers, and machine vision.
A computer can then read the data from the strain gauges and measure if one or more of the pins are being pushed upward.
The ownership of the SIG site, located directly on the Rhine Falls, was transferred to the SIG Charitable Foundation in 2011.
Industries that require a higher output of materials - food and beverage, retail case packaging, pharmaceuticals - typically incorporate these conveyors into their systems over standard vertical conveyors due to their ability to facilitate high throughput.
These results typically lead to a higher confidence level in the quality of the weld joint and process.
This scanning method allows the system to accurately resolve seeds falling closely together, maximizing counting accuracy without sacrificing high throughput.
For the cylinder driven fluid power type, one axis is for vertical motion and the other for horizontal.
Moving from manual operations, through semi-automatic operations to fully automated packaging lines offers advantages to some packagers.
conduction sealing Conduction sealing requires a hard metal plate to make perfect contact with the container being sealed.
This causes the melt to stretch too quickly and the bubble diameter starts to vary along its surface.
A typical robot can, of course make a positional error exceeding that and that could be a problem for the process.
As a result, these staplers tend to be used in work environments where repetitive, large stapling jobs are routine.
Wheel machines are favored for their processing ease, due to having only single (or in some cases, two) parisons, and mechanical repeatability.
Granules and powders While free-flowing, fine-grained powders can be weighed more cheaply by other means (such as cut-gate or linear weighers, or volumetric feeders), granules such as coffee granules and products such as loose tea can be weighed on today’s multiheads.
When the weight is added, the movement of a ferrous material through that coil causes a fluctuation in the coil current proportional to the weight of the object.
An interdisciplinary exchange between biological and computer vision has proven fruitful for both fields.
It consists of four main subsystems: the injection unit, the clamping unit, the drive unit, and control systems.
See also Dymo DiscPainter References External links Media related to DYMO Corporation at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Process Heat sealing is the process of sealing one thermoplastic to another similar thermoplastic using heat and pressure.
One of the conveyors is pivotally hinged to the other conveyor for swinging the attached conveyor away from the remaining conveyor for access to the facing surfaces of the parallel conveyors.
The direct contact method of heat sealing utilizes a constantly heated die or sealing bar to apply heat to a specific contact area or path to seal or weld the thermoplastics together.
To guarantee the advertised number of seeds and avoid under-filling, distributors had to include a safety margin of extra weight in each package.
Carton interface The machinery needs to be able to consistently form, fill, and seal the specific carton of interest.
Feed-Roller: This actually is the first patented method used in the semi-automatic label dispenser to advance the label forward.
On June 1, 1998, CoStar Corporation, the manufacturer of the LabelWriter brand of thermal label printers, was acquired by Esselte Office Products.
Singularities are closely related to the phenomena of gimbal lock, which has a similar root cause of axes becoming lined up.
However, if 10,000 packs a day are being produced, and most are 110 g, 100 kg of product is being lost.
Decks and driveways Washdown is the process of using a stream of water to clean a flat or nearly flat outdoor surface.
In 1975, the Swiss military replaced the P210 with the P220, dubbed the "Pistole 75", which was the first product of a partnership with J.P.
High speed power analysis techniques (voltage and current measurement in near real time) can be used to intercept power delivery from mains to generator or generator to head in order to calculate energy delivered to the foil and the statistical profile of that process.
The second wrist axis then attempts to spin 180° in zero time to maintain the orientation of the end effector.
Products that cannot be moved on traditional roller conveyors can be moved by a multi-strand chain conveyor.
Several systems have been developed which use a heated platen placed on the material; the melted material is then pumped through a heated hose to its destination.
While originally designed for filling creams, gels and lotions these fillers also handle water thin and heavy paste products.
This section outlines some requirements of testing plastic welds as well as the different types of destructive and non-destructive methods that are applicable to plastic welding and go over some of the advantages and disadvantages.
Many also have barcode scanners to allow identification of containers more quickly and accurately than manual keyboard entry.
A Drum handler is a piece of mechanical equipment that is used to securely grip, lift and transport cylindrical modules such as steel drums, barrels, plastic drums and fiber drums.
The paper then passes over the print drum, at which time the image is transferred, or transfixed, to the page.
Beer bottling process Packaging of bottled beer typically involves drawing the product from a holding tank and filling it into bottles in a filling machine (filler), which are then capped, labeled and packed into cases or cartons.
However, wires, microcircuit connections, sheet metal, foils, ribbons and meshes are often joined using ultrasonic welding.
They can be designed in many shapes and sizes, hung from ceilings, raised on mezzanines, operated in ovens or in refrigerators.
Gallery See also Agricultural machinery industry List of agricultural machinery Mechanised agriculture Seed drill (box drill, air drill) References Notes Citations External links Dodder counting machine
Test methods might include: Seal strength per ASTM F88 and F2824 Seal strength testing, also known as peel testing, measures the strength of seals within flexible barrier materials.
Non-destructive testing Visual examination Visual inspection, just like the name implies, is a visual investigation of the weldment.
Friction welding In friction welding, the two parts to be assembled are rubbed together at a lower frequency (typically 100–300 Hz) and higher amplitude (typically 1 to 2 mm (0.039 to 0.079 in)) than ultrasonic welding.
SIG Group AG is a Swiss multinational corporation and one of the biggest manufacturers in the packaging industry.
Some of the more common applications are bulk mailing, manufacturing, packaging, food and beverage, fast food, and photo labs.
Protect workers from health effects brought by dust, toxic/hazardous products and prevent environmental contamination.
Mix-weighing Products containing up to eight components can be mixed on a multihead weigher, very accurately at high speeds.
Controlling movement For a given robot the only parameters necessary to completely locate the end effector (gripper, welding torch, etc.) of the robot are the angles of each of the joints or displacements of the linear axes (or combinations of the two for robot formats such as SCARA).
Offline programming is where the entire cell, the robot and all the machines or instruments in the workspace are mapped graphically.
Logistics and Distribution: Shipping Labels: Barcode printers are essential for creating shipping labels that contain information such as destination, shipping method, and tracking numbers.
History Prior to the development of the tape dispenser, 3M's standard clear scotch tape was sold as a roll, and had to be carefully peeled from the end and cut with scissors.
The process can also be highly automated, provides strict control over dimensional tolerances and does not interfere with the biocompatibility of parts.
Ultrasonics can also be used to weld metals, but are typically limited to small welds of thin, malleable metals such as aluminum, copper, and nickel.
These tools are easier to squeeze and better place pressure at the front of the tool where the staple is ejected.
Robot programming and interfaces The setup or programming of motions and sequences for an industrial robot is typically taught by linking the robot controller to a laptop, desktop computer or (internal or Internet) network.
By contrast, a case erector is equipment for setting-up flat (knocked-down) corrugated boxes and applying a closure to the bottom flaps.
Dymo was acquired by Esselte in 1978, and battery-powered printers became a major product after 1990.
Unlike the forklift attachments, mobile drum handlers have built in wheels so you can easily maneuver it anywhere.
Elmer and Elsie were often labeled as tortoises because of how they were shaped and the manner in which they moved.
Automation Packaging operations can be designed for variable package sizes and forms or for handling only uniform packages, where the machinery or packaging line is adjustable between production runs.
See also Drott Manufacturing Company References External links Media related to Tracked loaders at Wikimedia Commons
Ethiopia: 200 T-54s and 200 T-55s were ordered in 1977 from the Soviet Union and delivered between 1977 and 1978 (the T-54s were previously in Soviet service while the T-55s were possibly previously in Soviet service).
Specifications The Caterpillar Sixty was powered by a four-cylinder, overhead valve gasoline engine that produced 60 horsepower (45 kW) at the belt and 35 horsepower (26 kW) at the drawbar.
Ship-to-shore crane elements Lateral movement system: A combination of two sets of typically ten rail wheels.
Sparks flying out of the boiler stack above him would sometimes set his clothing on fire; some steersmen earned enough money to purchase fire-resistant leather gear.
In October 2022, Slovenia donated 28 M-55S to Ukraine and received in return from Germany 40 transport vehicles.
Talus MB-764 is a four-wheel drive launch tractor which was specifically designed for the RNLI, to launch and recover inflatable inshore lifeboats from beach and shorebased launched lifeboat stations.
Specifications and History Built by Ransomes & Rapier and named after the winning horse of the 1957 Grand National, it began work in a Rutland iron ore quarry belonging to the United Steel Companies (Ore Mining Branch) that year.
Other versions that did not see active service were equipped with anti-mine ploughs, mine rollers, or special demolition charges to destroy reinforced concrete walls.
Heap leaching entails constructing stacks of crushed ore, through which a solvent is passed to extract valuable materials.
This was the same layout as the Tetrarch light tank, which Vickers-Armstrongs had developed in the 1930s.
In September 2018, Krone unveiled its new large forage harvester series with the BiG X 680, 780, 880, and 1180 models, which replaced the old series.
In 2005, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences presented Academy Awards to Horst Burbulla, Gyula Mester and Keith Edwards for the invention and development of the Technocrane.
and around the world, but they would no longer compete in the same market segment as the larger four-wheel row-crop designs.
The Swiss army used their Unimog 2010s as artillery tractors, combat engineer vehicles and aircraft tractors.
In 1991, the Fresno scraper was designated as an International Historic Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
High-tensile steel was selected instead of aluminum because trailer weight reduction was not a priority for HMTs, which have their own payload capacity independent of the ballast tractor.
Since its official presentation in 1998, the drive, technology and equipment of the Fendt 700 Vario have been consistently further developed.
Bucyrus Erie Marion Steam Shovel Dredge Company Moore Speedcrane (later Manitowoc Cranes) Northwest Shovels Thew Automatic Shovel Co.
With Contributions From Many Of The Leading Tractor And Accessory Manufacturers Of The United States, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA: Jensen Printing Company.
For example, from 1955 on there were tests with these very vehicles in order to examine them for their possible applications.
Like many other tractors of the era, its model name came from its horsepower ratings, with 6-12 (or 6/12) meaning 6 hp at the drawbar and 12 hp at the belt pulley.
This allows the pile to be evenly spread out during the reclaiming process and allows for the oldest material in the pile to be reclaimed before the newer material.
The vehicle was required for the then-new Lockheed C-5 Galaxy aircraft, the largest in the USAF's inventory.
The Husky 2G was designed with added high sensitivity detectors, ground-penetrating radar, video optics suites, and remote weapon stations.
Supervisory system A supervisory system is a typical feature of an anti-collision system that covers an entire construction site.
In addition to A-type tractors and B-type tractors, there is also a classification into tractor A and tractor B.
An understanding of what equipment will be used for during the life of the tires is required for proper selection.
Komatsu developed a lengthened Superdozer undercarriage with two additional rollers per side to reduce wear, a step that Caterpillar avoided for their Carrydozer machines.
The tractor is a highly modified version of the standard 95 bhp Fowler Challenger III diesel crawler tractor, manufactured by John Fowler & Co.
The Casspir Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle was developed for the SADF after 1980; this was the inspiration for the American and other military MRAPV program and the basis for some of the program's vehicles.
A Temperley transporter is an early form of overhead crane invented by John Ridley Temperley in 1892.
This allows the excavator to rotate 360 degrees, providing excellent maneuverability and the ability to dig, load, and place material from a single position.
Creating technology that stays safe in all scenarios where failure could possibly occur takes a lot of programming and time.
History The factory belonged to Etablissements Decauville ainé, a French manufacturer focussing on the production and sales of narrow gauge railway material.
The Profi Trac 5000 TVL has a ZF WSK 400 clutch unit that contains both a hydraulic torque converter, and a dry clutch.
At the time of its construction Sundew was the largest walking dragline in the world, weighing 1,675 long tons (1,702 t).
Hydraulic hammer A hydraulic hammer is a modern type of piling hammer used instead of diesel and air hammers for driving steel pipe, precast concrete, and timber piles.
The chassis and automotive components remain the same, although the Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle carries specialist equipment.
United Kingdom British Army: common order signed with Germany in October 2025 to replace the existing M3 fleet.
They can be quite large like those equipping Hulett cranes, used to discharge ore out of cargo ships in harbours or very small such as those used by deep-sea exploration vehicles.
In November 2018, a number of enhancements were introduced and announced for the current D11T/D11T CD machines.
Larger models followed the successful 5760, culminating in the mid-60s with the gigantic 12,700-ton Marion 6360, nicknamed The Captain.
Current developments Israel is forming a fourth Combat Engineer Battalion that will specialize in dealing with roadside bombs, mines and booby traps.
The company, which entered the market with only two models, was later able to offer 46 different models between 50 and 110 hp, to potential customers in different countries.
The MAZ-529 (МАЗ-529) is a uniaxial tractor designed by the Soviet vehicle manufacturer Minsky Automobilny Zavod (MAZ), which started production in 1959.
The 163–225 hp (ECE R24) tractor containing a John Deere engine and the Hexashift transmission with four ranges and six powershift stages.
Military use They were widely used by the British, French and American armies in the First World War for hauling heavy artillery including the BL 9.2-inch howitzer and the BL 8-inch howitzer.
The company moved its manufacturing from the old Fundary Building between the MK and T railway and Santa Fe railway crossing to the Jenkins building at 209 West Central Avenue in August and began to undertake general repair work on tractors and motor vehicles to supplement its income.
Initially, a guard was installed on the hood sides for safety while the engine was serviced, but it was later removed.
Other notable features were the rear-mounted drivetrain (there was no engine on the front module) and a hydrostatic transmission, with hydraulic wheel motors.
The platform is integrated with pulse induction metal detector panels and overpass tires that enable operators to regulate tire air pressure in order to reduce the risk of initiating land mines without causing detonation.
The smaller cranes start at around 50 tons in lifting capacity, with the largest being able to lift 20,000 tons.
At the factory Aulnay the last Decauville steam locomotives were built for the lignite mines of Yugoslavia.
The TaxiBot, developed by the Lahav Division of Israel Aerospace Industries, is a semi-robotic, towbarless aircraft tractor.
The tractor is produced by the British company of Clayton Engineering Limited who are based in Knighton, Powys.
Le Tourneau-Westinghouse offered three variants in the 15-short-ton (14 t) class: XM437 Cargo, XM438 Tanker, and XM554 Wrecker.
Bucher aircraft tractor) was that in these, the aircraft could be suspended during the journey of the towing hook to keep the time between leaving the cavern and the lift off of the Mirage short.
Its design was based on the South African RG-31 Charger class of light-armored vehicle, intended as a reconnaissance, forward command and control, and urban operations vehicle for homeland security missions.
In 1934, The military finally commissioned the K TL4, a KTL with extended wheelbase, which was still slow for that usage.
Talus MB-4H is a four-wheel-drive launch tractor which was specifically designed for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI), to launch and recover inshore lifeboats from beach launched lifeboat stations.
References External links Historical Construction Equipment Association National Construction Equipment Museum - Discover Ohio Information about the museum's holdings and visitation Ohio Traveler - article about the museum
Between 29 August to 15 September 2003, Bagger 1473 was moved approximately 8.5 kilometres (5.3 mi) from the Meuro mine to near the EuroSpeedway Lausitz, where it would serve as a monument to the area's former lignite mining.
The 120 horsepower (89 kW) model had a tiller-type steering wheel at the front that was usually covered.
1995 – The National Commission for the Certification of Crane Operators (NCCCO) is established by the crane and lifting industry as a nonprofit organization to develop a certification program for crane operators.
The MAZ-538 (Russian: МАЗ-538) is a heavy four-wheeled bulldozer which was designed and built in the Minskyi Avtomobilnyi Zavod from the 1955 to 1990 model years, used for the Soviet armed forces.
The remainder of the W-6 drivetrain was similar to the W-4's, but the tractor was heavier at 4,800 pounds (2,200 kg).
The crawler track speed restriction was a problem, and the next version used steel wheels for improved speed.
Design restrictions and specifications The maximum design speed of an A-class tractor on a horizontal road surface may not exceed 30 km/h (±10%).
Past themes have includes "Rare tractors and tractor development" (2012), "Rare tractors" (2011), and "Swedish tractors" (2010) which was supplemented by tractors borrowed from a Swedish collector.
BTS-4BM - Experimental version of the BTS-4B with the capacity to winch over the front of the vehicle.
A pipelayer can also be equipped with accessories: crane (used to lift and place pipeline elements in a trench) dragline (used to backfill a trench) rammer (used to compact the soil in an excavation).
Because of greater diameter of projectile cradle ring of the Basket-type, T-64 and later T-80 have a higher limit to the maximum length of armour-piercing fin-stabilized discarding sabot (APFSDS) projectiles, providing superior anti-armour performance relative to shorter projectiles used by T-72.
Right hand left = Bucket curl in (closed) Right hand right = Bucket curl out (dump) Right hand forward = Main Boom down.
While the engine of the Type 82 is located in the middle section of the vehicle, the Type 87's Isuzu 10PBI four-stroke V10 liquid-cooled diesel engine has been moved to the right rear of the vehicle.
Versions Logging arch A device similar to a skip tongue log skidder except that it is made of steel, including the spoked wheels Cable skidders On a cable skidder, the cable is reeled out and attached to a pull of cut timber, then the winch pulls the load toward the skidder.
History and development In cooperation with AEG built MOWAG 37 aircraft tug named Flz Sch 4x2 for the Swiss Air Force.
Starting in the 1960s, Cub engines steadily increased power with higher rated RPM's, peaking at 15 horsepower (11 kW) for the International Cub and 154 Lo-Boy by 1975, and 18 horsepower (13 kW) for the 185 and 184 Lo-Boys.
It also features a 260 horse power (194 kW) engine, air suspension, anti-roll bars and a forward mounted cab.
When off-loading a ship, the grab may be more efficient if designed with a low-profile extended body which enables reaching under the ship's hatches, negating any need to centre the product with human and machinery access.
Electric conversions The unique design of the Model G lends itself extremely well to electric vehicle conversion; a small DC electric motor replaces the original engine and bolts directly to the transmission housing through a commercially available adapter plate.
The second section is a separate tracked compartment which essentially holds the crane's counterweight in total.
Technical data The bucket wheel excavator had a power of 5555 kW during operation and was supplied with a 6 kV power cable.
This method of launching gives the bridgelayer a low silhouette which makes it less vulnerable to detection and destruction.
These costs are as follows: Depreciation can be calculated several ways, the simplest is the straight-line method.
Cheetah was submitted to the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) competition but was officially rejected from the program in August 2008.
Its global market share for both cut-to-length and full tree equipment was very strong shortly after the acquisition.
Attempting to free a tangled shirt sleeve from the knob may cause the driver to lose control of the car.
The innovative operating system Variotronic, which was introduced with the first 700 Vario generation in 1998, has been awarded internationally.
IDF D9 bulldozers were used during the Second Intifada (2000–2005) to demolish Palestinian properties and clear improvised explosive devices.
Mine-resistant ambush protected vehicle (MRAPV), also known as MRAP vehicle, is a type of armoured personnel carrier that is designed specifically to withstand the impact of land mines, improvised explosive device (IED) attacks, and ambushes.
References External links MoAZ home page in English Belarusian Machine Building: Once a Nation's Pride, Now a Burden?
These vehicles should not be confused with single axle tractors, even if they also have only one axis and are used as a tractor for attachments.
The engine and cab received some modifications and the front axle reinforced to integrate the 4x4 transmission.
Early units, with a Cat D333 engine, were multi-fuel, but later ones, with the D333C powerplant, were diesel only.
A central 15 ton travelling gantry crane was also provided, for lifting machinery along the centreline of the hull.
When it was built, in 1947 to repair battleships and aircraft carriers, it was the largest crane in the world.
In 1999, equipment manufacturers created a trade association, Volumetric Mixer Manufacturers Bureau (VMMB).
Latvia (4) Latvian Army: ordered in 2021 through a US funding (USD $22 million), it entered service in 2025.
The KD 211 Z is a two-cylinder, naturally aspirated four-stroke Diesel engine with a 85 mm (3.3 in) bore and a 110 mm (4.3 in) stroke, resulting in a displacement of about 1.25 dm3 (76 in3).
Unfortunately that proposition was also suspiciously similar to that of the Moline Universal tractor, which had been on the market for about 2 years before the Allis 6-12 appeared.
There are bullet-proof tires 16.00R20 with explosion inserts diverting the blast wave, with automatic pumping of air and controlled pressure to 4.5 atmospheres.
The body supports the jib (UK; North America: boom) and provides all the lifting and operating mechanisms; on larger cranes, an operator's cabin is usually provided.
As urban job sites grew tighter and more regulated, the demand for nimble, multi-use equipment like skid steers continued to rise.
The specification complies with DVLA legislation, allowing the tractor to be used on public highways.
Images Implements and hydromechanical work tools Traction: Off-the-road tires and tracks Heavy equipment requires specialized tires for various construction applications.
France Following the Russian Revolution, Kégresse returned to his native France, where the system was used on Citroën cars between 1921 and 1937 for off-road and military vehicles.
Work on large ships then took place in a large dry dock at the end of the Musgrave channel on the south-eastern side of Queen's Island, served by a pair of Goliath cranes, Samson and Goliath.
International Germany Road maintenance depots in Germany are known as Straßenmeisterei or Autobahnmeisterei.
Downhill grades were the most dangerous, where ice allowed the sleds to accelerate faster than the engine.
After that, practical testing commended until the Type 89 was accepted into service and type classified in 1989.
Unlike derricks, sheers need no lateral support, and only require either a foreguy and an aftguy or a martingale and a topping lift.
Some excavators have the possibility to change the operating mode from SAE to ISO and from ISO to SAE.
This compact machine was self-propelled and wheeled, making it highly maneuverable and suitable for urban construction projects.
ArmaTrac is the tractor brand of Erkunt Tractor, the tractor division of the Turkish Erkunt group owned by the Indian giant Mahindra & Mahindra.
The torque is transmitted to the mechanical five speed gearbox with a single disc dry clutch; only the rear wheels are driven.
Models In total, there exist eight different models of the Unimog 2010, however, only five were ever built.
The museum also has an area for children where they can play with toy tractors while their parents visit the museum.
The Massey-Harris Model 81 was a two-plow small-farm tractor built by Massey-Harris (later Massey Ferguson) from 1941 to 1948.
A group of employees was locked indoors by OJSC Belaz to prevent them from joining the other protesters.
Although not as large as the Big Muskie, the Ursa Major was still a large and substantial excavator.
Both the THS15 scrapers were spotted for sale in used machinery dealers by 2011, and their fate is unknown.
Like its predecessor, the ZT 320 series has a powershift gearbox with three ranges, but the number of gears was upgraded from three to four.
History The construction and use of EPA tractors began in the late 1920s, and they became more common in Sweden in the 1930s.
Multiple units of HMT can be interconnected longitudinally by pins and interconnecting couplings mounted in the center of the chassis in the front and rear.
Recently a prototype Liquifire was uncovered in a Polaris warehouse which would have been one of the first snowmobiles to feature independent front suspension.
These tests must also be routinely audited for the certifying agencies to maintain their accreditation.
Also in 2017, the eDumper, an electric dump truck from Komatsu in cooperation with Kuhn Switzerland and Lithium Storage was presented.
As with the D11R, the D11T Carrydozer can push 57.9 cubic yards (44.3 m3) while the regular D11T can push 45 cubic yards (34 m3) of earth.
Experiments have shown the device could achieve drilling speed of 5 metres per minute through solid rock and up to 100 metres per minute in soil.
History Developments in tower crane design and the increasing complexity of construction sites in the 1970’s and 1980’s led to an increase in the quantity and proximity of tower cranes on construction sites.
Applications A skid-steer loader can sometimes be used in place of a large excavator by digging a hole from the inside.
To conform to the elevation changes for the final grade of the road modern pavers use automatic screed controls, which generally control the screed's angle of attack from information gathered from a grade sensor.
WCVs themselves incorporate a compacting mechanism which is used to increase the payload of the vehicle and reduce the number of times it has to empty.
Hydraulic excavators usually couple engine power to (commonly) three hydraulic pumps rather than to mechanical drivetrains.
Uses On land Shear legs are a lifting device related to the gin pole, derrick and tripod (lifting device).
However rip-rap, heavy rock, and asphalt can be hauled if built with the appropriate strength steels.
It was intended as part of Force Protection's armoured military vehicle line-up, which includes the MRAP-class of Buffalo and Cougar vehicles and the Ocelot light protected patrol vehicle (LPPV).
Reclaimer types Bucket wheel reclaimers use "bucket wheels" to remove material from the pile they are reclaiming.
The equipment was developed and produced for the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) by the Turkish company FNSS Defence Systems.
In some locales such as Northern Europe, Canada, and places in the United States, graders are often used in municipal and residential snow removal.
Engine modifications Compression ratio Because TVO has a lower octane rating than petrol, the engine needs a lower compression ratio.
The New Holland TC45 is a four-wheel drive compact tractor, adapted to suit the launch and recovery requirements for some of the RNLI's inflatable inshore lifeboats from beach and shore-based lifeboat stations.
It mounted a front jib with a 7.5 ton capacity, a rear jib rated for 15 ton and a winch that could pull 25 tons.
The first D575A-2 SD Super Dozer was purchased and placed into service by the Princess Beverly Coal Co.
In 1999, the Society of Camera Operators (S.O.C.) presented their technical achievement award to Technovision, Gyula Mester and Keith Edwards for the "First Telescopic Camera Crane" and for their significant contributions to the Art, Craft and Safety of the Camera Operator.
Shannon Launch and Recovery System (SLARS) is a custom designed tractor and trailer specifically designed for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) to launch and recover Shannon-class lifeboats.
Reclaimers are made up of a bucket-wheel, a counterweight boom, and a rocker; they also use a conveyor system to move any material reclaimed from the boom to its specific pile.
These were used for transporting the tank Pz 55/57 Centurion tank, thus reaching the total weight of 104 tons.
The first step by the South African Defence Force (SADF) was the Bosvark, a Unimog fitted with a shallow mine-deflecting tub on the chassis to protect the crew.
However, in Kentucky, a community awareness campaign did appear to increase interest in ROPS installation.
By raising the dozer blade and using its scraper blade, the ACE can fill itself with ballast to improve dozing efficiency.
The BiG X 1180 is available with an automatic adjustment of the counter blade, allowing the driver to adjust it from the cab.
As the Goers were surplused accordingly, it was done so under a demilitarization order similar to that of the M151 jeep.
A single-function boom type has two hydraulic cylinders, only allowing the boom to lower in one position.
The six-speed versions of the gearbox have an additional 1.5 km/h crawler gear below first gear, but are otherwise identical to the five-speed units, i.e.
In water hoisting In energy production The bucket wheel design is also used to capture the water energy in water-wheels or water turbines like Pelton wheels.
The minimum diameter of the pulley is restricted by the ratio of the pulley diameter to the rope diameter, the strands of the wire rope being subjected to fatigue bending stresses if the pulley is too small, giving premature failure.
Bulletproof exceed the highest demands on available GOST (GOST R 51136 and GOST R 50963), in which the highest level - a fire of armor-piercing bullets B-32, 7.62 × 54 mm from the SVD.
The commander sat behind and between the bow gunner and driver, while the gunner sat behind and to the right of the commander, operating a 0.5 in (12.7 mm) M2 Browning machine gun mounted of the vehicle's roof.
The 960E-1 has been Komatsu's largest, highest capacity haul truck, offering a payload capacity of up to 360 short tons (327 t).
Able to haul life-boat and carriage to the water, which at low water may be several miles at some stations.
The gunner has the Fotona SGS-55 two-axis stabilized day-and-night sight with an integral laser rangefinder.
Melton Sales and Service of Bordentown, New Jersey currently has this contract in which three variants of the U-30 tow tractor are overhauled.
1942–1945): Four-wheel-drive tractor, based on Bonham Power Horse design See also List of Allis-Chalmers engines References Swinford, Norm (1994).
The machine is adapted for air transport by Lockheed C-130 Hercules aircraft and for rail transport.
As the Diamond T Model 980 was later adopted by the US, the DFXE was one of the few diesel engines used by US tactical trucks during World War II.
The Latil H14 TL10 is an all-wheel drive agricultural and forestry tractor produced by Latil and later Saviem from 1947 to 1962 through various evolutions.
The DB120 needs a GPS (satellite navigation) system to guide it as there are no row markers to indicate where to position the tractor/planter.
A similar incident occurred in June 2016, when a sink-hole opened up in Rideau Street during further construction of the tunnel, and filled with water up to a depth of three metres.
Currently its members include (in alphabetical order): Bay-Lynx, Cemen Tech, Holcombe Mixers, ProAll Reimer Mixers, and Zimmerman Ind, Inc.
The expansion continues, as the first subsidiary, Ponsse AB, is established in Västerås, Sweden, in 1994.
This was a "ground up" new platform designed to replace the "Prior" or "Hundred Series" Fords built from 1955 through 1964.
It weighed about 18,000 pounds (8,200 kg), and was developed in direct response to a request for a heavy artillery tractor.
Belgium The FN-Kégresse 3T was a half-track vehicle used by Belgian armed forces as an artillery tractor between 1934 and 1940.
During the same year, a second model (MK2) was released, featuring a more advanced hydraulic system.
It premiered at the South by Southwest film festival in March 2019, and to limited theatres and on Netflix on February 28, 2020.
SPATGM version The anti-tank version is equipped with two rooftop quad tube launchers for the Kornet-EM ATGM.
The pins are inserted into opposing holes that are drilled into the top of the stone at about 15° from vertical.
Taiwan Republic of China Army: the M3G is in service in the armed forces, but the quantity is unknown.
Even in 1956, the Soviet automobile industry was already so specialized that the complete train was no longer manufactured by MAZ.
In case of damage by mines, individual suspension and wheel units could be replaced relatively easily.
The overburden can also be transferred directly to a cross-pit Spreader, which reaches across the pit and scatters overburden at the dumping ground.
End of production By the late 1960s several companies had developed single-engined tractors capable of producing over 100 hp (70 kW), this competition and the need for Doe to develop and test a approved safety rollover cab put the Doe out of production after over 300 had been built.
In front, it connects to the front axle, which is either a pivoted but otherwise unsprung rigid dead (ZT 320) or live (ZT 323) axle.
However, the Allis-Chalmers Model G, introduced two decades later, was an interesting design that in some respects echoed the concept of the 6-12, albeit now "facing the other way", with the implement leading and the motorized drive unit now pushing rather than pulling.
The way the sections can twist in relation to each other and the way the vehicle steers, making the back tires follow the same path as the front tires, provide for excellent off-road capabilities in combination with all-wheel drive.
Some automobile models have begun to adopt the phrase, substituting system for structure in the ROPS acronym, notably the Volvo C70 convertible models, and Jaguar XK.
Skid steer loaders can use the universal mounting system; however, most manufacturers typically offer skid steer snow pushers with a universally accepted quick-attach system.
United States (around 1,600) In 2005, JCB was selected to produce what at the time was estimated to be 636 machines for $209 million.
It is also one of the largest ground vehicles in current operation, and – by its official production in 2013 – became the largest self-propelled ground vehicle by gross size, beating out the NASA crawler-transporters.
This machine features some unusual design concepts, including an adjustable cutting edge on the bowl to reduce friction when loading.
At the end of the 1960s, demand for Krone agricultural machinery decreased due to a diminishing number of farmers in Germany.
An underground rocket or rocket drill is a device for rapidly drilling holes through soil and rock of varying composition at rates up to 1 metre per second by utilising supersonic jets of hot gases.
All of the following fleet details are referenced to the 2026 Lifeboat Enthusiast Society Handbook, with information retrieved directly from RNLI records.
The KamAZ Typhoon has been used by the Russians in the Russo-Ukrainian War with at least 28 KamAZ-63968 Typhoon and 11 K-53949 Typhoon-K being destroyed, damaged, abandoned and captured as of 12 February 2025.
Optional transmissions were a 4-speed, 6-speed (3-speed with high and low), 8-speed (4-speed with high and low) and a 10-speed 'Select O Speed' power shift transmission.
The tractor's engine was a new design and, for the time, offered excellent performance for its displacement.
Standard front wheels were 5.5X16 and two options were available for the rear wheels - either 13.6X28 or 14.9X24.
Operation The Shannon launch and recovery system (SLARS) was developed to launch and recover the 18-tonne Shannon-class RNLI lifeboat.
He felt that reading widely would help him comprehend the Qur'an, so he did not limit his studies to Islamic studies.
However, ritual-focussed Mimamsa school scholars were generally opposed to central ideas of the Hindu Grammarians, while others Hindu schools such as Vedanta championed them.
Latin text and annotated German translation of an ancient Latin grammar of the 4th century for advanced beginner lessons].
They propose to validate the view attributed to Śākaṭāyana that all words can be analysed by the addition of affixes to verbal roots.
Kātyāyana's work (nearly 1500 verses on Pāṇini) is available only through references in Patañjali's work.
These include comparative literature, computer science, history, linguistics, philology, philosophy, semiotics, and terminology.
Dante became familiar with Saint Augustine's works, the De Consolatione Philosophiae by Boëthius, Saint Thomas Aquinas's works and some encyclopedic dictionaries like the Etymologiae by Isidore of Seville and the Livre du Tresor by Brunetto Latini.
The theory of universal translatability is disapproved by some researchers, like André Martinet, who is convinced that human experience cannot be well communicated because it is unique.
It has become a source for how ancient texts should be acted out based on the experience from commonly read ancient authors.
So strong was Ibn Mada's refutation of grammarians that University of Oxford Laudian Professor of Arabic Geert Jan van Gelder referred to Ibn Mada as the Sextus Empiricus of the Arab world.
[◌ʰʰ], [◌ʰ𐞁], the latter recently added to Unicode after a request by the IPA, were illustrated for long aspiration [(1.3)] was added for a 1.3-second pause.
Ibn Hisham was endowed with extraordinary intelligence and a strong memory, as he was able to collect several sciences and excel in them.
During 1973–1993 she was the head of the Department of the Russian Language, then the Head of the Department of Russian Language and Speech Communication.
The rhetorical treatise Ad Herennium was attributed to him by some scholars of the early 20th century.
He was probably an African by birth, summoned to Constantinople to take the place of Euanthius, a learned commentator on Terence.
One work in particular that belongs to this province, Yesod Mora ("Foundation of Awe"), on the division and the reasons for the Biblical commandments, he wrote in 1158 for a London-based friend, Joseph ben Jacob.
However, he had a remarkable memory and wrote poetry in unusual meters, and he enjoyed a great reputation as a teacher; Quintilian and Persius are said to have been his pupils.
Much of the impetus for this work came from the desire of non-Arab Muslims for correct interpretation of the Quran and the development of tafsir (Quranic exegesis); The poetic language of the Qur'an presents interpretative challenges even to the native Arabic speaker.
He is perhaps the same as the author of a work περὶ Διονυσιακοῦ συστήματος, also quoted by Athenaeus, without any distinguishing epithet.
He was from a Sayyid family, and was a direct descendent of Muhammad in the 38th generation via Hasan ibn Ali.
Abū Bakr Muḥammad ibn al-Qāsim ibn Muḥammad ibn Bashār al-Anbārī (Arabic: أبوبكر محمد بن القاسم بن محمد بن بشّار الأنباري) (885–940 AD), also known simply as Ibn al-Anbari (ابن الأنباري), was a well known Arab philologist and grammarian of the Abbasid Caliphate.
Two lines of a poem Ibrāhīm recited before his patron are quoted by the 19th-century historian Aḥmad al-Nāṣirī al-Salāwī.
Kvergić of Vienna entitled "La psychologie de quelques éléments des langues Turques" ("The Psychology of Some Elements of the Turkic Languages").
A special issue of American Speech published in 2022 examined twenty-first-century perspectives on the Linguistic Atlas Projects, reflecting renewed scholarly interest in the historical data and its applications to contemporary linguistic questions.
In careful speech and in with certain function words, or in some phrase stress conditions (see Mateus and d'Andrade, for details), European Portuguese has a similar process: /ɨ/ + V → [jV]; se a vires [sjɐ ˈviɾɨʃ] ('if you see her'), mais que um [majʃ kjũ] ('more than one').
This book contains one of the most complete lists of types of dactylic hexameters in antiquity, including the teres versus, which may (or may not) be the so-called "golden line." Diomedes wrote about the same time as Charisius and used the same sources independently.
He handled this position efficiently and successfully, but in 842 he resigned so as to have greater leisure for study and prayer, retiring to the neighbouring monastery of St Petersberg.
According to Saussure, meaning arises from the internal network of differences within language itself; individuals do not use language merely to convey pre-existing thoughts—rather, thought is shaped and constituted by language.
Abu Al-Qasim Al-Fadl bin Mohammed bin Ali bin Al-Fadl Al-Qasabani (Arabic: أبو القاسم الفضل بن محمد بن علي بن الفضل القصباني) (died 444 AH), was a well known Arab philologist and grammarian of the Abbasid Caliphate.
Here, "similar" means that nasalization can be disregarded, and that the two central vowels /a, ɐ/ can be identified with each other.
Its English translation done by Professor Whitney is also available, and the same has been published in the Journal of the American Oriental Society.
⟨ɹ⟩ appeared at the same horizontal position as the other alveolars rather than slightly more back as did in the previous charts.
The field grew probably because almost a quarter of words in the Vedic texts composed in the 2nd-millennium BCE appear just once.
The surviving text is incomplete: the beginning of the first, part of the fourth, and the greater part of the fifth book are lost.
He is the first author to treat Egyptian Arabic as a dialect distinct from Classical Arabic, compiling an Egyptian Arabic word list, the Raf` al-'iṣr `an kalām 'ahl miṣr (i.e.
Published at that time more than ninety articles in newspapers and magazines since 1982 related to the Yemeni history and the Yemeni Art.
After graduating from the Chief Engineering School, he graduated from the General Staff Academy and did not have formal education in linguistics.
Lambert Bos was born at Workum in Friesland, where his father, Jakob Bos, was headmaster of the school.
A commentary, Super Porphyrium, printed by Cousin in 1836 among the Ouvrages inédits d'Abélard, and assigned both by that editor and by Haurau to Hrabantis Maurus, is now generally believed to be the work of a disciple.
Other Akhfashs Besides Al-Akhfash al-Aṣghar (“the Younger Akhfash”), there are at least two other famous scholars with the name Akhfash, distinguished by their epithets al-Akbar (“the Greater / Oldest”) and al-Awsāt (“the Middle”).
Vākyapadīya The Vākyapadīya, also known as Trikāṇḍī (three books), is an Indian linguistic treatise on the philosophy of language, grammar, and semantics.
According to the diary of Jakub Gieysztor, Akelaitis had no money and so he donated his mother's ring and watch for the demonstration.
The family was at the centre of Vienna's cultural life; Bruno Walter described the life at the Wittgensteins' palace as an "all-pervading atmosphere of humanity and culture".
In his final years at the Ministry of Education, Solomonick began to familiarize the Ulpan teachers with computers, laying the groundwork for the introduction of computer-aided learning as one of the mainstays of the Ulpans' activities.
99 Nelly Hanna, In Praise of Books: A Cultural History of Cairo's Middle Class, Sixteenth to the Eighteenth Century, Syracuse University Press (2003), ISBN 978-0-8156-3012-8, chapter 5.
The Treatise is important for the study of Old Norse, as it is a major text showing the state of the language just prior to the writing of the Icelandic Sagas.
His fame largely derives from his highly celebrated commentary on the Quran entitled Tafsir Ibn Atiyya.
लौकिक or classical) As per another legend, it is one of the eight forms of marriage where the bride's father receives a pair of kine from the groom.
In 1928, while serving as the director of the Syrian Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, al-Shihabi joined the National Bloc in opposition to the French Mandate for Syria and the Lebanon.
Al-Ẓāhirī was initially a follower of al-Shāfiʿī in matters of jurisprudence, later branching off in terms of his principles, likely due to the influence of Ibn Rāhwayh.
Hacker retired from Oxford in 2006, and was appointed to an emeritus research fellowship from 2006 to 2015, since when he has been an emeritus fellow.
These are clearly documents with stylistic ambitions." Few listeners would have understood them when they were read out at royal assemblies.
Overview Patañjali is one of the three most famous Sanskrit grammarians of ancient India, other two being Pāṇini and Kātyāyana who preceded Patañjali (dated to c.
The core of the text may date to the early eighth century, but much material was added between that date and the production of the earliest surviving copies from the end of the fourteenth century.
Ogham The Auraicept is one of the three main sources of the manuscript tradition about Ogham, the others being In Lebor Ogaim and De dúilib feda na forfed.
It is represented with two small circles at the right of a letter as ះ, and it should not be confused with the similar-looking yŭkôlpĭntŭ (យុគလពិន្ទុ; "pair of dots"), which indicates a short vowel followed by a glottal stop like their equivalent visarga marks in the Thai and Lao scripts.
See also Schools of Sanskrit grammar Pāṇini Tolkappiyam Vyakarana Sanskrit grammar Katantra Notes References Trautmann, Thomas R.
Katanov – letter from Boris Miller to Sergey Oldenburg "Miller in Talyshstan" – iarex.ru Talysh studies are in the "risk group" in the Republic of Azerbaijan
He distinguished himself in mathematics and philosophy, graduating as seventh Wrangler in the former in 1893 and becoming a Fellow in the latter in 1895.
Upon their return from India in 1890, the Lanmans built a home at 9 Farrar Street in Cambridge where he lived until his death.
His Padapāṭha of the Rigveda was one of the early attempts in the direction of linguistic analysis; he broke down the samhita text of the Rig Veda into words, identifying even the separate elements of compound words.
Jean-Luc Deuffic, "Un logicien renommé, proviseur de Sorbonne au XIVe siècle: Raoul le Breton de Ploudiry.
Institute of Language and Thought Meshchaninov was a follower of Nikolai Marr and succeeded him as head of the Soviet Institute of Language and Thought from 1935 to 1950.
After his illness in 1953, he entrusted her to continue his research in the field of the Talysh language, advised her and provided all possible assistance.
In the course of the 1970s, Russian theorists adopted the wider sense of "equivalence" as something resulting from linguistic transformations.
The book is based on Al-Nassir's doctoral dissertation (1985) at the University of York under the supervision of John Kelly.
His dissertation, directed by Walther Mayer, was titled Zwei Beiträge zur mehrdimensionalen Differentialgeometrie.
See also Pāṇini Sanskrit grammarians Bhaṭṭikāvya Bhaṭṭoji Dīkṣita References Aryendra Sharma, Kasika - a commentary on Pāṇini's grammar by Vamana and Jayaditya.
The earlier one was composed in 1332, when Philip VI announced his intention of going on Crusade in July.
The Katantra (Sanskrit: कातन्त्र; IAST: Kātantra) is a treatise on Sanskrit grammar (Vyakarana) attributed to Sharvavarman living at the time of the Satavahana dynasty.
Additionally, a related work that is extant and is more ancient than the 5th-century BCE Nirukta by Yaska, is the Nighantu which is a lexicographic treatise.
Abū Zayd Sa’īd ibn Aws al-Anṣārī (أبو زيد سعيد بن أوس الأنصاري; died 830 CE/215 AH) was an Arab linguist and a reputable narrator of hadith.
External links Excerpt from Ibn Khalawayh's Names of the Lion, translated by David Larsen, on Poets.org
His science of grammar led in turn, to the establishment of the first great School of grammarians at Basrah, that would be rivalled only by the school at Kufah.
His student al-Thaqafi seems to have had more prescriptive views while al-'Ala's were more descriptive.
According to Ryle, there are two types of descriptions: thin description: surface-level observations of behaviour, e.g.
Della Valle had originally given these manuscripts to a Franciscan named Tomasso Obicini to edit and publish.
Yang claimed that his family had moved south from the state of Jin during its civil infighting in the 6th century BCE.
His status was considered by many Muslim scholars to be of the highest rank in regard to biographical evaluation, and he is quoted in both Sahih Muslim and Sahih al-Bukhari, the two most significant collections for Sunni Muslims.
Sanskrit śvāśurá, Old High German swāgur "brother-in-law") The above example also displays the stressing of the thematic vowel when it already exists.
See also The king and the god References Bibliography Arntz, Helmut (ed.), Hirt, Hermann: Die Hauptprobleme der indogermanischen Sprachwissenschaft.
Notes References Further reading Anne Grondeux (2001), Le Graecismus d'Évrard de Béthune à travers ses gloses Anne Grondeux (2010), Glosa super Graecismum Eberhardi Bethuniensis Capitula I–III: de figuris coloribusque rhetoricis Friedrich Wilhelm Bautz (1975).
Abu Salma Hammad ibn Salamah ibn Dinar al-Basri (Arabic: حماد بن سلمة بن دينار البصري; died 167 AH/783 CE), the son of Salamah ibn Dinar, was a prominent narrator of hadith and one of the earliest grammarians of the Arabic language.
During martial law in Poland he was interned for refusing to sign an oath of loyalty which led to international protests.
One of the results of the linguistic turn was an increasing focus on logic and philosophy of language, and the cleavage between ideal language philosophy and ordinary language philosophy.
Early life The scholar Sheikh Ibn Hisham Al-Ansari was born in Cairo in Dhu al-Qadah, in the year of 708 AH, corresponding to the year 1309 CE.
The work was modeled after Kalinka's Galicya i Kraków pod panowaniem austryackiem (Galicia and Kraków under the Austrian Rule) about the Austrian Partition published in 1853.
See also Bible translation Language documentation Language revitalization References Further reading Zwartjes, Otto; Altman, Cristina, eds.
The Vedic literature from the 2nd millennium BCE has a very large collection of such words, with nearly 25% of the words therein being used just once.
For Foucault, knowledge itself is a form of power, and linguistic discourses delineate the invisible boundaries of social order.
"Provisional identification of languages in the Polyglotta Africana", Sierra Leone Language Review (1964), 3, pp.
Unlike Patanjali, Bhatrihari applies the term sphoṭa to each element of the utterance, varṇa (varṇasphoṭa; the letter or syllable), pada (padasphoṭa; the word), and vākya (vākyasphoṭa; the sentence).
El-Said Muhammad Badawi (Arabic: السعيد محمد بدوي, romanized: Al-Saʿīd Muḥammad Badawī; 1929 – March 16, 2014) was a scholar and linguist and author of many works, both in English and in Arabic, dealing with various aspects of the Arabic language.
Significance of the obelisk For Kircher, obelisks and their hieroglyphic inscriptions were the source of hermetic wisdom that was older than, but continuous with Christian revelation.
He was blind, and many students of knowledge studied under him, the most famous of whom were: Al-Hariri, Al-Khatib Al-Tabrizi, and the judge of Basra, Abu Al-Faraj Al-Basri.
The name Niftawayh, a combination of "nift", or asphalt – due to his dark complexion – and "wayh", was given to him out of his love of Sibawayh's works.
Some, such as Heinrich Keil, the 19th century editor of Marius Victorinus, believed that Victorinus published the work of an earlier writer Aphthonius, to which he added an introduction and an appendix on the metres of Horace.
Criticism In the post-war period, key tenets of logical positivism, including the verifiability criterion, analytic-synthetic distinction and observation-theory distinction, drew escalated criticism.
Ibn Khalawayh was a famous scholar during his lifetime, and assembled a circle of disciples in regular literary reunions.
Having learned the Qur'an by the age of ten in his village, El-Nakhas, Sharqiyya Governorate, he attended Al-Azhar University for his secondary schooling.
In recent years, advancements in deep learning and large language models have significantly enhanced the capabilities of natural language processing, leading to widespread applications in areas such as healthcare, customer service, and content generation.
In 1957, Noam Chomsky’s Syntactic Structures revolutionized Linguistics with 'universal grammar', a rule-based system of syntactic structures.
Structure Xu wrote the Shuowen Jiezi to analyze seal script characters that evolved slowly and organically throughout the mid-to-late Zhou dynasty in the state of Qin, and which were then standardized during the Qin dynasty and promulgated empire-wide.
He published A New Theory in Languages, a guide to Marrism, and later Verb and Parts of Speech and Phrase Elements.
Second, he substitutes the abstract laryngeal signs with their supposed phonetic values: *h1 = *ʔ (glottal stop), *h2 = *ʕ (voiced pharyngeal fricative), *h3 = *ʕʷ (pharyngeal fricative with lip rounding).
He was born in Sribhavan in 800 to Rashtrakuta King Govinda III during the king's return from his successful northern campaigns in Kanauj.
Additionally, he contributed to Arabic philology as well as lexicography, recording vocabulary and expressions of the Bedouin tribes which had not previously been recorded.
Brice, An Historical atlas of Islam, 1981, David Larsen, introduction to Ibn Khalawayh's Names of the Lion (Wave Books, 2017), vii-xiv.
After the war, Ayer briefly returned to the University of Oxford where he became a fellow and Dean of Wadham College.
Ibn 'Atiyya was, in fact, an extremely conscientious student who enjoyed reading and was eager to learn in order to become well-versed in all fields.
He was a celebrated, if not controversial, figure during his time, being referred to in Islamic historiographical texts as "the scholar of the era." Biography Early life and family Dāwūd al-Ẓāhirī's exact place of birth is not entirely clear to Muslim historians.
In 1940 she entered the Faculty of Philology of Saratov University, which she graduated from in 1945.
The most important part of it is that which deals with metres, based on the work of Caesius Bassus, the friend of Persius.
His origins were in al-Yaman, however his marriage to a daughter of al-Ḥafṣā al-Mughannī earned him the name ‘Ḥayyan al-Sūraḥī.’ Abū Sa’īd reports al-Sarrāj and Abū ‘Ali al-Ṣaffār that al-Mubarrad was born in 825-26 (210 AH)and died in 898-99 (285 AH), aged seventy-nine.
The eldest son of Vararuci of Kerala legend is known as Mezhathol Agnihothri and he is supposed to have lived between 343 and 378 CE.
The latter may be viewed as a case of summary scanning, since the element of sequence in the process is lacking.
External links Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum: complete texts and full bibliography Text of Aphthonius in the Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum.
The number of Slovene equivalents in this edition is notably higher; they often reflect Carinthian Slovene.
by the historian Ibn al-Tiqtaqa (1262-1310); (1895) Oumâra du Yémen, sa vie et son œuvre; biography and works of the Yemeni poet ʻUmārah ibn ʻAlī al-Ḥakamī (1121-1174); (Paris, ed., Ernest Leroux, 1897) References External links Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
But also foreign words like the French wattman, in French stemming from watt and man, were claimed to be of Turkish origin by a Turkish scholar.
The main reason for the conflict comes down to the Yin Wenzi's core texts being lost for several centuries and chapters seemingly being added, contradicting the Book of Han listing it as having one chapter.
As was common at the time due to the enduring Tower of Babel myth, Hensel attempted to derive all languages from a common origin in Hebrew, following A philosophicall essay for the reunion of the languages, or, the art of knowing all by the mastery of one (1675) by Pierre Besnier (1648–1705).
Donatus auctus was added some time around 1426–37, between the first and second redactions of the De scriptoribus illustribus latinae linguae ["On Famous Writers of the Latin Language"] of Sicco Polenton, and it became the standard account of Virgil's life up until the 18th century.
After the vowels ই or উ and before velar or labial stops, the bisarga may appear as ষ, producing forms such as নিষ্কাম.
His full name was Dakṣiputra Panini according to verses 1.75.13 and 3.251.12 of Patanjali's Mahabhashya Mahābhāṣya, with the first part suggesting his mother's name was Dakṣi.
Three months after Wittgenstein's arrival Russell told Morrell:I love him & feel he will solve the problems I am too old to solve ...
At the time, nobody was aware of the connection between Domitian and the obelisk, and it was known as the 'Pamphilj obelisk' after the Pope's family name.
Significance The significance of Clajus's Grammatica Germanicae Linguae lies in its role as one of the earliest and most thorough descriptions of the German language.
He studied physics at the University of Heidelberg, the University of Lausanne, and, ultimately, the University of Berlin under Max Planck.
Style of the charters The standard of Latin prose improved in the tenth century, especially after about 960, when the leaders of the Benedictine reform movement adopted the elaborate and ornate style of Latin now called by historians the hermeneutic style.
In the preface to the first volume he regrets that, except for Alfred's translations, Englishmen had no means of learning the true doctrine as expounded by the Church Fathers of the Latin Church.
Abū Manṣūr Mauhūb al-Jawālīqī (Arabic: أبو منصور الجواليقي) (April 1074–17 July 1144) was an Arab grammarian born in Baghdād, where he studied philology under Khātib al-Tibrizī (1030 – 1109) and became famous for his handwriting.
Antimachus of Colophon (Greek: Ἀντίμαχος ὁ Κολοφώνιος), or of Claros, was a Greek poet and grammarian, who flourished about 400 BC.
Their proems consist of long convoluted sentences, parading an ostentatious display of Greek and glossary-based vocabulary and containing numerous unmistakable verbal reminiscences of Aldhelm's writings.
He is also considered the first person who explained gravity of Earth in a way similar to magnetic field behavior.
The Aindra(of Indra) school of Sanskrit grammar is allegedly one of the ancient schools of Sanskrit grammar.
Seeing this difficulty, there was a need to invent such a method in which all sutras necessary for the achievement of a particular experiment are available at one place.
The original matter contributed by Ibn Parḥon includes, in addition to the notes mentioned above, many interpretations of single Biblical passages, and numerous explanations of Biblical words by means of Neo-Hebraic and Aramaic.
Rutherford (1881); Lobeck devotes his attention chiefly to the later, Rutherford to the earlier usages noticed by Phrynichus.
In Foundations and "The Thought", Frege argues for Platonism against psychologism or formalism, concerning numbers and propositions respectively.
Ḱerd angʰetai widontbʰjos: ǵʰm̥on, potis, wl̥nam owijōm kʷr̥neti soi gʷʰermom westrom; owibʰjos kʷe wl̥nā ne esti’.
Saʿd and a group of fellow Persians had converted to Islam and become protégés of Qudāmah ibn Maẓ'ūn.
Ali laid down the principle of the three parts of speech; the noun, the verb and the particle and told him to write a treatise on it.
Gongsun ran a school and received patronage from rulers, advocating peaceful means of resolving disputes amid the martial culture of the Warring States period.
Plato's concern with the sophists' usage was that their words and phrases gave misleading impressions about reality and that, as highly revered intellectuals, the sophists should have utilized the most fitting descriptive words possible.
Moscow, 1926) Таты и их расселение и говоры: материалы и вопросы (Tats and their resettlement and dialects: materials and questions.
In 1850 he was appointed member of the Caucasus Department of the Russian Geographical Society and ordered to compile the history of the Caucasus region.
It then went on to discuss the Syriac inscriptions on the Xi'an Stele, although Kircher could not read Chinese.
A preface of this work, written during the twelfth century CE by Ilampuranar describes the work as aindiram nirainda Tolkappiyam[incorrect quote]('comprising Aindra').
Al-Nadim describes the voluminous work, reputedly the collaboration of forty-two grammarians, as "unequaled before his time and unrivaled afterwards".
Karl Lachmann based his critical edition of 1831 on manuscripts dating from the 4th century and earlier, to argue that the Textus Receptus must be corrected according to these earlier texts.
Ek'wōses ewᵇwekʷont: kl'udhi, owei!, k'ērd aghnutai widontmos: gh'ᵇmo, potis, wᵇlənām owjôm kʷr̥neuti sebhoi ghʷermom westrom; owimos-kʷe wᵇlənā ne esti.
Much social, geographical and historical information has been thus inferred from a close reading of Pāṇini's grammar.
Aindra, Katantra schools and the Tolkappiyam Burnell's search for the Aindra school took him to Southern India where he came across the Tamil grammatical work Tolkappiyam.
Baron Pyotr Karlovich Uslar (Russian: Пётр Карлович Услар, IPA: [ˈpʲɵtr kərɫəvʲɪt͡ɕ ʊsɫər]), known by his German name Peter von Uslar (1 September [O.S.
His habilitation thesis at the University of Rostock, Das Wesen der Wahrheit nach der modernen Logik (The Nature of Truth According to Modern Logic), was published in 1910.
Endings The basic scheme of suffixation is given in the table below and applies to many nouns and adjectives.
His grammatical opinions were eclectic, in between the major opposition between the grammatical schools of Basra and Kufa.
Modern usage, however, does not always imply this and may be demonstrated in the following examples: Retranslations occurring simultaneously or near-simultaneously so that it is difficult to determine the first from succeeding translations.
The two sides of the debate may be called the Nairuktas (based on Yāska's Nirukta, atomists), vs the Vaiyākarans (grammarians following Pāṇini, holists), and the debate continued in various forms for twelve centuries involving different philosophers from the Nyaya, Mimamsa and Buddhist schools.
Artemon (Ancient Greek: Ἀρτέμων) of Cassandreia was an ancient Macedonian grammarian, who seems to have lived after 316 BCE.
Sin Sukchu (Korean: 신숙주; Hanja: 申叔舟; August 2, 1417 – July 23, 1475) was a Korean politician during the Joseon period.
Vyākaraṇa scholarship has dealt with linguistic analysis to establish the exact form of words to properly express ideas, and Nirukta scholarship has focused on linguistic analysis to help establish the proper meaning of the words in context.
The first large scale NMT was launched by Baidu in 2015, followed by Google Neural Machine Translation (GNMT) in 2016.
It was published in Rome by the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith and dedicated to the Prefect of the Congregation, Cardinal Francesco Barberini.
The grammatical system based on this text, called Sārasvatavyākaraṇa, was popular due to its brevity and relative simplicity, especially among Jains.
The letters of the Sanskrit alphabet were further organized by the Vedic scholars into a magic square, making symmetrical and resonant alternate readings of the letters possible, such as top to bottom in addition to left to right.
In the Bhagavad Gita Sloka XVII.22, it is seen that the word अदेशकाले (ādeśkāle) with the dropping of a mātra i.e.
After the fall of Northern Qi, Zhitui became an official of the Northern Zhou, and moved his family to Guanzhong.
Mendelsohn, The Philosophy of Gottlob Frege, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005: "Appendix A.
This second edition also contains example phrases in German and Slovene, illustrating the use of the entries given.
His first article was published in Kronika Wiadomości Krajowych i Zagranicznych in 1856, and signed as "Chłop z Mariampola" (lit.
He is cited in Martyrs Mirror and Foxe's Book of Martyrs in relation to the etymology of the movement's name.
Succeeding his father, he was appointed to the Naqib office, acting as the head of the Alids in the area.
In approving sense, it is used to show that the meaning of the word is so important that the speaker's (or writer's) grammatical mistake (or conscious deviation from grammar) does not matter.
Its full title reads: Synopsis universae philologiae: in qua: miranda unitas et harmonia linguarum totius orbis terrarum occulta, e literarum, syllabarum, vocumque natura & recessibus eruitur.
Vararuci's name appears in a verse listing the 'nine gems' (navaratnas) in the court of one Vikramaditya.
Nomine et verbo was published by Johann Sichard at Basel in 1528 and subsequently, in a much more complete form, in the collection of Helias van Putschen, who had access to manuscripts that he used to rectify many deficiencies, large and small.
in his Kitāb al-Fihrist Al-Nadīm reports a written account by Abū al-Fatḥ ibn al-Naḥwī that Ibn Duraid examined the manuscript of Kitāb al-'Ayn at Baṣrah in 248H/ 862CE.
However, Nighantu is not a dictionary, a genre of texts that developed in later centuries and was called a Kosha in Sanskrit.
In 1988, a year before his death, Ayer wrote an article titled "What I saw when I was dead", describing an unusual near-death experience after his heart stopped for four minutes as he choked on smoked salmon.
Philology came to be divided into three branches: exegesis (訓詁; xùngǔ), grammatology (文字; wénzì) and phonology (音韻; yīnyùn).
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
See also al-Akhfash al-Akbar (the Oldest) al-Akhfash al-Aṣghar (the Younger) Akhfash's goat == References ==
Eesti murded III (1970) Tartumaa saja-aastaste jutud (1995) Võru keel (1997) Johannes Gutslaffi grammatika eesti keel ja Urvaste murrak (1998, in the book: J.
Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum: complete texts and full bibliography Bibliography of Diomedes in the Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum blog
Twelve of the twenty grammarians described by Suetonius in De Illustribus Grammaticis had been slaves.
He had visited a number of times and found the collector friendly, but wary; fearful of the Clan of Hamdan [of Aleppo].
Some schools, such as Carvaka, state that this is never possible, and therefore Sabda is not a proper pramana.
Amerias (Greek: Ἀμερίας, 3rd century BC) was an ancient Macedonian lexicographer, known for his compilation of a glossary titled Glossai (Γλῶσσαι, terms or words).
She held several positions at the university following graduation, including senior lecturer at the Department of Slavic-Russian Linguistics.
But this characterisation of noun / verb is inadequate, as some processes may also have nominal forms.
(without citations) 7 vols, Saint Petersburg, 1879–1889), which with the assistance of his two friends, Rudolf Roth (d.
The gaṇapāṭha listing has these variants, not the forms in pausa, and thus has twenty-two items in all.
He attended the lessons of Taj al-Din al-Tabrizi and read to Taj al-Din al-Fakahani his explanation of the sign, except for the last page.
He served as a personal linguistic expert to King Sejong, and was intimately involved in the creation and application of the Korean alphabet known in modern times as Hangul.
In a citation from the book called Device of the Men of Letters, al-Hakimi wrote that Abū ‘Abd Allah Muhammad ibn al-Qāsim called Al-Mubarrad a "Sūraḥūn", of al-Baṣrah.
The few manuscripts of the pratisakhyas that have survived into the modern era are likely from the 500 to 150 BCE period.
Since 1935 professor and since 1939 doctor of sciences in philology at the Moscow Institute of Oriental Studies and researcher at the Institute of Linguistics of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR.
History William of Conches, Peter Helias, and Ralph of Beauvais, also referred to as speculative grammarians predate the Modist movement proper.
Within the genre, ordinary speech stress is often distorted in the first line, and may be regarded as a feature of the form: "There was a young man from the coast"; "There once was a girl from Detroit..." Legman takes this as a convention whereby prosody is violated simultaneously with propriety.
Running while Black is a sardonic description of racial profiling experienced by Black runners in the United States and Canada.
Most scientists do not think there are places that would not be significantly negatively impacted by climate change.
How to play The words are found in all directions — vertically, horizontally, diagonally and backwards.
It implies that a motorist may be stopped by a police officer largely because of racial bias rather than any apparent violation of traffic law.
Discerning the various layers of meanings would be a challenge to the reader, who has to focus on and keep turning over the passage in his mind, applying his erudition and imagination to perceive alternative meanings.
An example is Georgian baq'aq'i ts'q'alshi q'iq'inebs ("a frog croaks in the water"), in which q' is a uvular ejective.
In July 2020, Norwegian news site Dagens Næringsliv reported that the game had made Bertheussen a multimillionaire.
Vittoria is a love interest for Langdon in the novel while there is no attraction present in the film.
For instance in astronomical terminology a distinction may be drawn between a moon, any natural satellite, and the Moon, the natural satellite of Earth.
Two Pig Latin words that have entered mainstream American English are "ixnay" or "icksnay", the Pig Latin version of "nix" (itself a borrowing of German nichts), which is used as a general negative; and "amscray", Pig Latin for "scram", meaning "go away" or "get out of here".
ngware becomes rengwa) See also Costermonger (British street vendors from whom back slang originates) Pig Latin References External links Victorian Web Article John Burkardt's list of back slang words at Florida State University
SIMILARLY: the 1st, 4th, and 7th letters make SIR, the 2nd, 5th, and 8th letters make ILL, and the 3rd, 6th, and 9th letters make MAY.
References Heli Harrikari: A Constraint-based Approach to Finnish CV Spoonerisms External links List of Finnish spoonerisms
By 2024, some real estate listings promote climate scores that estimate the level of climate risk exposure to a property.
Forms As in the wit of Dorothy Parker's set, the Algonquin Round Table, witty remarks may be intentionally cruel (as also in many epigrams), and perhaps more ingenious than funny.
All versions allow players to resign their turn with the "resign" feature, pass their turn with the "pass" feature, swap out one or more tiles and forfeit the current turn with the "swap" feature, or look up what tiles remain with the "tile bag" feature.
Theoretically, a very long word could use every fourth letter to make four smaller words; e.g., «partitioned» is an alternade for «pin», «ate», «rid», and «to».
The 1980s Canadian gameshow Bumper Stumpers required contestants to decode gramograms presented as fictional vanity licence plates.
Also included are chapters on word-level phenomena, such as sentence palindromes, and wordplay involving arithmetic and geometric progressions.
After playing the last tile, the opposing player will lose all the points equal to the amount of the remaining tiles.
Moore’s “proof” is essentially an attempt to assert the truth of the sentence ‘Here is one hand’ as a paradigm case of genuine knowledge.
Certain letters do not appear in either of the two autograms above, which are therefore not pangrams.
ABOMINATE: the 1st, 4th, and 7th letters make AMA, the 2nd, 5th, and 8th letters make BIT, and the 3rd, 6th, and 9th letters make ONE.
It may be related to Old French boul "fraud, deceit, trickery", Icelandic bull "nonsense", Middle English bull "falsehood", or the verb bull "befool, mock, cheat".
"Trope Theory and the Unsustainable Lightness of Being", in Philosophical Semantics: Reintegrating Theoretical Philosophy, Newcastle upon Tyne: Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
The app was launched on 12 July 2025, and in it players must guess Venezuelan colloquial words and phrases.
Tolkien interpreted his own surname as derived from the Low German equivalent of dull-keen (High German toll-kühn) which would be a literal equivalent of Greek oxy-moron.
Sophocles, Oedipus st:370 Italian Aristotele, ancora adolescente, aveva avuto accesso all’associazione accademica.
In an article for Reader's Digest, Chloë Nannestad described Quiddler as "the best 2-player card game around" for those who enjoy word games.
For example, (2 + 3) × 4 = 20 forces addition to precede multiplication, while (3 + 5)2 = 64 forces addition to precede exponentiation.
Although Gumuțeasca has been spoken for more than 100 years and it has been passed from generation to generation, today only a few people continue to speak it.
On February 10, Wordle officially moved to The New York Times website, with player statistics carried over.
See also Controlled natural language One-letter word Oulipo Storytelling game Infinite canvas, a movement in comics in a sense opposite to that of constrained comics References Further reading Baetens, Jan.
References External links The Fumblerules of Grammar by William Safire Fumblerules entry on the alt.usage.english FAQ Hacker writing style section of JARGON FILE, VERSION 4.3.3, 20 SEP 2002
The player who has played the last card on the stack once the pickle round ends "wins" the stack and places it next to themself.
Dennis Ritchie, creator of the C language, said of the precedence in C (shared by programming languages that borrow those rules from C, for example, C++, Perl and PHP) that it would have been preferable to move the bitwise operators above the comparison operators.
Example games Two example games could be played as follows: In Example 1, it can be noted that the phrase "AT" does not end the game; this is because words only become valid once they are at least three letters long.
The emergence of insulated glazing and glass-manufacturing companies also caused the people of Mărgău to lose customers.
Similarly, 안녕 (annyeong) in Korean and שלום (shalom) in Hebrew can mean both "hello" and "goodbye" but the central meaning is "peace".
Players compete by racing to create the most coherent or humorous sentence that fits the acronym - in essence, a backronym.
Latin alphabet Near the beginning of the Christian era, the Latin alphabet had already undergone its principal changes, and had become a definite system.
Variations In German the game is known as Ja-Nein-Schwarz-Weiß ("yes-no-black-white") and in Hungarian as fekete-fehér, igen-nem ("black-white, yes-no").
The Australian television show Spicks and Specks had a contest called "Turning Japanese" which used RTT on song lyrics.
Players guess words, and any word that appears in the article is revealed, slowly allowing the player to piece together the topic.
The play modes include Solitaire (both long and shorts games), Banana Café, Live Games, and Challenges.
Uses in ciphers A ten-letter heterogram can be used as the key to a substitution cipher for numbers, with the heterogram encoding the string 1234567890 or 0123456789.
But, if he said simply, “Beast!” that would be hypocatastasis, for the other part of the simile or metaphor (“you”), would be implied and not stated.
The most popular variant of the game is known as chengyu jielong (成語接龍), which involves four character idioms instead.
Ross Eckler Jr., a statistician at Bell Labs, became editor until 2006, when he was succeeded by Jeremiah Farrell (Butler University).
In the book's closing scenes, a Swiss Guard hands Langdon the fifth brand, the Illuminati diamond, as a gift.
Among the lowercase letters "l" is unique since its symmetry is broken if it is close to a reference character which establishes a clear x-height.
Augustine's well-known abecedarian psalm against the Donatists is the earliest known example of medieval rhythmical verse.
Take away the verbs and the language speaks for itself." Thaler went so far as to organize a well-attended, tongue-in-cheek funeral for the verb, at the Sorbonne in Paris.
If the player manages to construct the magic word at the top of the screen, the well will be cleared of all tiles and the player will receive a large bonus.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
The player ends their turn by discarding one card from their hand so that the player ends up with the same number of cards as were dealt.
In popular culture The mnemonic sentence "Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain", mentioned above, also appears in the 2003 novel Artemis Fowl and the Eternity Code, third book of the Artemis Fowl series.
The Greek compound word ὀξύμωρον oksýmōron, which would correspond to the Latin formation, does not appear in any Ancient Greek works prior to the formation of the Latin term.
Special Alias On the flip side of the New Alias board is the Special Alias version of the board game: the rules are otherwise the same as in New Alias, but the game has different classes: The world around us, Sports and exercise, Entertainment and culture, and Sayings and quotes.
In ambigram calligraphy, each letter acts as an illustration, each letter is created with attention to detail and has a unique role within a composition.
Kalodont or kaladont is a South Slavic word game, popular in Croatia, Montenegro, Serbia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and North Macedonia, in which players in turn say words, each beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
Šatrovački was initially developed by Roma and various marginal subcultures and criminal groups in Yugoslavia, who employed it as a device of secret communication.
An inverted speech form similar to Totoiana also exists in the French language and is known as verlan (from l'envers, "the inverse", but inverted).
2020s Revival In 2021, Tutnese gained traction on social media platforms including Discord, Google Classroom and TikTok.
Espy Jeremiah Farrell Martin Gardner Mike Keith Douglas Hofstadter Lila Maria de Coninck See also Constrained writing List of forms of word play Oulipo Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics References Bibliography Books Bergerson, Howard W.
Origin The idea that one can construct a grammatically correct sentence consisting of nothing but repetitions of "buffalo" was independently discovered several times in the 20th century.
Use in the United Kingdom In 2009, the Conservative Party leader David Cameron used the trope with a German accent whilst criticising the idea of ID cards in the United Kingdom by asking a Q&A session "Where are your papers?".
However, their existence is said to be threatened by "river crabs" which are invading their habitat.
In 2005, a complete rosarigasino version of Cervantes' novel Don Quixote de la Mancha was published, entitled Don Quijogasote de la Magasancha and translated by Bernardo "Chiquito" Reyes.
This version lacks the image of a hanged man, instead relying on keeping score as to the number of attempts it took each player to fill in the blanks.
A Void, the English translation of another, considerably later, French novel, having the 'no e' restriction in both languages.
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
Cathy Duffy Reviews described the game as a simple activity that reinforces spelling and vocabulary skills.
"Single-Snaps" are linear combinations of letters that form one word, while "Multi-Snaps" are combinations that form two or more words.
Each player picks and writes down a secret word and attempts to guess the other's word first during their turn.
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
Eventually no boycott was declared and the Vatican stayed officially silent about the film, unlike its condemnation of The Da Vinci Code.
The graph of the complete word contains a subgraph which is a subdivision of the non-planar graph K3,3, and as such is itself non-planar.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
infinitive for verbs, nominative for nouns, etc.) may not be made-up or a proper name, and no previous word may be repeated.
Businesses Gag names can also be applied to businesses, such as Howard Stern's use of the fictitious "Sofa King": in a hoax advertisement, the store was described as being "Sofa King great" (i.e.
Since then the term has mostly been confined to analysis of Biblical rhetoric, and it has never migrated to general public usage.
Shepard Smith, on his evening news program The FOX Report with Shepard Smith on July 10, 2012, described London officials' quoted "overall strategery" in placing anti-aircraft missiles on apartment buildings during the London Olympics.
A perfect pangram is an example of a heterogram, with the added restriction that it uses all the letters of the alphabet.
Anomia Press released multiple expansions of Anomia, including Anomia Party Edition in 2013, Anomia X and Anomia Kids in 2017, Anomia 2.0 in 2021, and Anomia Pop Culture in 2022, each of which added new categories to the game.
In January 2018, bus passengers allege that Border Patrol agents boarded a Greyhound bus in Florida and demanded U.S.
If you guess PEACH and the secret word is PHIAL, the response would be 1 – the P is an exact match, but the A and the H are not.
Dabble is an anagram word game designed by George Weiss, who was 84 years old at the time, and published by INI, LLC in 2011.
Most editions of the game use game board to keep track of points, with each team moving their Scoring Peg on the point track after each of their turns.
History In the Renaissance, several artists tried to establish a sequence of up to seven primary colors from which all other colors could be mixed.
Historic rhymes One example of a historic rhyme (i.e., one that was a true rhyme but is now an eye rhyme) is the following: The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
Alternatively, objects can be named in any alphabetical order, but without repeating an earlier starting letter.
With some mental effort however, they can be dissolved in such a way that a rational person can justifiably ignore them.
The nominal value or minimum sale price for an item can be listed on a tag for the salesperson's reference while being visible but meaningless to the customer.
Expressed more abstractly, the individual colour-instances (the green of a leaf, the similar green of a frog) all partake in the same idea of green.
Lexiko was played with a set of 100 square cardboard tiles, with the same letter distribution later used by Scrabble (see Scrabble letter distributions), but no board.
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
There are other examples of vowelless sentences in Czech and Slovak, such as prd krt skrz drn, zprv zhlt hrst zrn, meaning 'a mole farted through grass, having swallowed a handful of grains'.
See also Alliteration Announcer's test Barbara's Rhubarb Bar Malapropism Spoonerism Theophilus Thistle References External links Interview with MIT researcher Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel
Psychologist Carl Jung wrote in his 1960 book Synchronicity that there was a "sometimes quite grotesque coincidence between a man's name and his peculiarities".
In 1968, Jack Webb guested on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson and took part in a parody of Dragnet.
For example: [ ( 1 + 2 ) ÷ ( 3 + 4 ) ] + 5 = ( 3 ÷ 7 ) + 5 {\displaystyle {\bigl [}(1+2)\div (3+4){\bigr ]}+5=(3\div 7)+5} Special cases Unary minus sign There are differing conventions concerning the unary operation '−' (usually pronounced "minus").
The object of the game is to form horizontal and vertical words by placing letter blocks in crossword fashion on your side of the frame while blocking the formation of words on the opposite side.
The playing space is a dark blue vertical frame, held upright by two detachable black feet, with 11 x 11 square holes with 75 wooden block lettered playing pieces available to place within that frame.
Radio Episodes of Car Talk followed their actual staff credits with a much longer list of pun-based fictional ones, varying from episode to episode but usually concluding with an "Erasmus B.
"Your papers, please" (or "papers, please") is an expression or trope associated with police state functionaries demanding identification from civilians during random stops or at checkpoints.
Derivation The addition of the t results in consonant clusters that do not occur in Ikwerre or other local languages.
It maintained this meaning in Spanish nimio, but it was also misinterpreted as "insignificant, without importance".
(سلام و علیکو ائ یار قدیمی) Bgofto dokhtarak bose' va me de (بگفتو دخترک یگ بوسئ وه مه ده) maga kuri ke bābāyom nadidi?
Reception Cryptmaster received "generally favorable reviews" according to review aggregator website Metacritic, scoring a 77/100 on the site.
You can trap the next player directly or help the next player by playing a word that allows them to trap the next player.
Any number of words in the answer is allowed as long as the first word starts with the correct letter.
The total number of letters is eight on Wednesdays and Thursdays, nine on Fridays and ten on Saturdays, and answers must be at least four letters long on those days.
Nofon èfe fafacifilefe, afanchefe peferchèfe vafa defettofo ifil pifiùfu vefelofocefe pofossifibifilefe Its translation in Italian is: Questo è un esempio di frase in alfabeto farfallino.
For example Psalm 9 and Psalm 10 appear to constitute a single acrostic psalm, but the length assigned to each letter is unequal, five of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet are not represented and the sequence of two letters is reversed.
George Berkeley, for example, argued against universals or Abstract objects using nominalistic arguments.
This is similar to the traditional Chinese practice of representing sounds by two characters known as fanqie.
Over the years, many different versions of the board game have appeared: As well as the New Alias, the Alias family currently also includes the Junior Alias for children, the Alias travel game, and as the newest introduction, DVD Alias.
It also supplies users with information on how to handle a traffic stop, including their legal rights and "best practices" for "how to be safe".
See also The New York Times Games – Casual games by The New York Times References External links Spelling Bee – Official site Glossary of Spelling Bee Terms - Official New York Times guide to Spelling Bee and definition of terms
Towards the 8th century of Rome, the letters assumed their artistic forms and lost their older, narrower ones.
[Italics in original] Bullinger gives the following example: one may say to another, “You are like a beast.” This would be simile, tamely stating a fact.
History Kangaroo words were originally popularized as a word game by Ben O'Dell in an article for The American Magazine, volume 151, during the 1950s, later reprinted in Reader's Digest.
The version of the game in which countries, cities, states, rivers, lakes, or capitals are used is called geography, and a generalized version with place names is called atlas.
Definitions In the 12th century, Rashid al-Din Vatvat defined īhām as follows: "Īhām in Persian means to create doubt.
The phrase was popularized as the first line in the classic 1942 movie Casablanca which depicted life in Vichy-controlled Casablanca during World War II.
Horizontal axis When the reflecting surface is horizontal (like a mirroring lake for example), the calligraphic design is a horizontal axis mirror ambigram.
In the 1993 video game Kirby's Adventure, the initial letters of the names of each of the seven worlds spell "ROYGBIV" backwards.
Words for transcendent ideas in the Platonic sense are often capitalized, especially when used in a religious context.
Though not palindromic in the mathematical sense, they read frontward and backward like real ambigrams.
Bilingual homophonous poetry, where the poem makes sense in two different languages at the same time, constituting two simultaneous homophonous poems.
Also there is another type of šatrovački, where the words are reconstructed by addition of letter P followed by the vowel preceding the inserted P after each syllable.
Unusually, Williams has a separate contest for each semester, and thus its 84th game took place in May 2008.
Borgmann has since been referred to as the "Father of Logology" and his book is credited with ushering in a "golden age of wordplay".
Cassius Caecinianus, which has the following inscription: AX, BV, CT, DS, ER, FQ, GP, HO, IN, LM Jerome explained this similarity.
Visual communication Because they are visual puns, ambigrams generally attract attention, and thus can be used in visual communication to broadcast a marketing or political message.
Dumb crambo Cryptic crossword, for a type of clue based on this game Pictionary, a game inspired by charades where players draw words or phrases Concept Notes References Baynes, T.
According to this theory, it is tropes — including both individual qualities and events — that serve as the truthmakers for true atomic sentences such as "John is hot" or "Mary is loved by John" or "John kicked Bill".
My eyes have grown dim over books; believing in geological periods, cave dwellers, Chinese Dynasties, and the fixed stars has prematurely aged me.
Pressing a button starts a loud ticking and, after a random time interval, the sound of an explosion.
In each turn, they guess a five-letter word; once the player finishes, each letter is colored based on how accurate the player's guess is.
A quip is an observation or saying that has some wit but perhaps descends into sarcasm, or otherwise is short of a point.
Publication history Outburst was originally created in 1986 by Brian Hersch and published by his Los Angeles game company Hersch and Company.
The game has been compared with Scrabble and Boggle; in WordZap, players race to make proper English words to fill their rack of words, but when one player makes a word already found by the other player, the word is "zapped" from both players' racks.
In English Philosophical, religious, and political terms A particular example of where capitonyms are prominent is in terminology relating to philosophy, religion, and politics.
An interlingual homograph is a word that occurs in more than one written language, but which has a different meaning or pronunciation in each language.
These expressions, such as "holy cow" and "kick the bucket" carry meanings and cultural implications that only a native speaker would understand.
Eight The number 8 (八, pinyin: bā; Cantonese Yale: baat) sounds like "發" (pinyin: fā; Cantonese Yale: faat; lit.
The player whose turn it is may — instead of adding a letter — challenge the previous player to prove that the current fragment is actually the beginning of a word.
Together with introducing syllabo-accentual metres, masculine rhymes began to occur in Polish poetry.
One can voluntarily jump back and forth between the rival readings usually by shifting one's physical point of view (moving the design in some way) but sometimes by simply altering one's perceptual bias towards a design (clicking an internal mental switch, so to speak).
Schwartz, the CEO of Sun Microsystems, sent an email to Sun employees on the completion of the acquisition of Sun by Oracle Corporation.
It is often used as an example of such a phrase when learning Czech or Slovak as a foreign language.
Espy discovered Word Ways in 1972, and eventually used material from several dozen articles in his Almanac of Words at Play anthologies.
Rosarigasino (also known as Gasó) is a language game (in the form of a rhyming slang) traditionally associated with the city of Rosario, province of Santa Fe, Argentina, even though very few people, if any, currently employ it.
Of note is a 2003 study by Darryl Francis which investigated Borgmann's assertion that the name "Torpenhow Hill" is a quadruple etymological tautology.
Legman dismissed the "clean" limerick as a "periodic fad and object of magazine contests, rarely rising above mediocrity".
Based on the principle of Scrabble, it allows players to play games with up to 30 friends and random opponents simultaneously.
An example of phono-semantic rhyming slang is the Cockney sorrowful tale 'jail', in which case the person coining the slang term sees a semantic link, sometimes jocular, between the Cockney expression and its referent.
The term sobriquet is equally applicable as a name for a person, group of people, historical event, or place.
1, contains the passage,"Get the Maids to Crambo in an Evening, and learn the knack of Rhyming." Etymology The name comes from the Latin crambe and Greek κράμβη krámbē, meaning "cabbage" (as in crambe repetita (Juvenal, satire 7, 154), literally meaning "re-stewed cabbage").
The OUI–NON ambigram is installed on the Place du Rhône, in Geneva, Switzerland, at the top of a metal pole.
The Hungarian station Class FM uses a variation of the game in their morning zoo program Morning Show.
Applications of this "art of ambiguity" or "amphibology" include texts that can be read as descriptions of earthly or divine love.
It is similar to Antakshari, the Sistanian Baas-o-Beyt, the Malayalam Aksharaslokam and, more generally, the British Crambo.
In Spanish dar (basic meaning "to give"), when applied to lessons or subjects, can mean "to teach", "to take classes" or "to recite", depending on the context.
Wordplay The surname is noted for its humorous spelling, leading to it often being misprounced as "Cock-burn," sometimes intentionally for humour.
Jackbox Games has produced multiple editions of Fibbage, a game in which the players use their mobile devices to choose categories, write fake answers, and vote for the real answers.
Reviews Currently endorsed by Oxford University's Bodleian Library and the British Library (London), which both receive a royalty for each game sold, Ex Libris has been described as "fantastically tricky" and "boring-sounding (but actually extremely entertaining)".
In traditional Chinese history and other Chinese dialect groups like the Teochew people, the number 4 is considered a very lucky and auspicious number.
Million Dollar Password CBS picked up a new version of the show entitled Million Dollar Password, hosted by Regis Philbin, which premiered on June 1, 2008, and ran for 12 episodes over two seasons.
In this case, the letters are inscribed in the Lombardic script of the 1260s and the complete structure would probably have stood near the high altar .
Some rounds may have a specific topic that the answers should fit, although enforcement of the topic depends on solely on the other players' willingness to vote for off-topic answers.
In an alternative variation, the first player describes the minister's cat with an adjective beginning with the letter 'A', the second with the letter 'B' and so forth, going around the circle.
{\displaystyle (1+2)\times 3=3\times 3=9.} Exponentiation before multiplication, multiplication before subtraction: 1 − 2 × 3 4 = 1 − 2 × 81 = 1 − 162 = − 161.
The winner is the player who posed the word with the difficult ending; he gets to start the next round.
An instantiated universal is a property (such as being green) that can exist in multiple locations at the same time.
If a wild card with two symbols is flipped, the card is placed next to the draw pile and those two symbols are considered to match until another wild card is flipped and replaces it.
WordBrain is a word game acquired by Swedish game developer MAG Interactive and released through them on July 19, 2015 for iOS, Android and Windows phone platforms.
Recognition Wonderword has done puzzles that have caught the attention of Boeing, Swarovski and Bill O'Reilly among others.
The "father" of the Irish bull is often said to be Sir Boyle Roche, who once asked "Why should we put ourselves out of our way to do anything for posterity, for what has posterity ever done for us?".
He noted that, although the most popular games were of the first two (e.g., chess and backgammon), the best letter game readily available was Anagrams.
In BreakAway, the player is given a 4x4x4 cube of letters and must find word combinations to remove letters.
When a player has accumulated 100 penalty points over any number of rounds, they are eliminated from the game, and the last player remaining is the winner.
Both entries cite Katalin Lázár's ethnographical work Népi Játékgyűjtemény ("Folk Game Collection").
The game antakshari (ant means end, akshar means letter), played in India, Pakistan and Nepal also involves chaining, but with verses of movie songs (usually Bollywood songs).
Thackeray's scenes—even those said to be "in pantomime"—included dialogue from the actors but truly "dumb" or "mime charades" gradually became more popular as well and similarly dropped their descriptive adjectives.
Designed for two to four players, the game has one participant select a secret word each round, which the others attempt to guess following Wordle's standard rules.
Notable players Samuel Pepys recorded playing in his diary entry of Saturday 19 May 1660: "From thence to the Hague again playing at crambo in the waggon, Mr.
Points are earned by making "Snaps" - valid combinations of letters that form a word or words with the ones already found on the board.
In many cases the problems are bona fide word puzzles, such as challenges to deduce orthographic, phonetic, semantic, or etymological patterns in word lists, or to generate word lists of a given pattern.
Individual house rules may vary when playing Fictionary, but play usually proceeds like this: One player, the "picker" for the turn, chooses an obscure word from the dictionary and announces and spells it to the other players.
The various ways of expressing the idiom (acting, spelling, drawing, shouting) are also determined by the roll of a separate die with icons corresponding to the various means of expressing the idioms.
The rules used by experienced players can be more stringent, such as allowing the use of only one poet's verses or of one theme.
While traditional Japanese haiku usually has 3 phrases of 5, 7, and 5 on ("sound symbols"), haiku in English usually has seventeen (or fewer) syllables.
(Alain Brobecker) (19, missing C, H, J, K, Q, W, and X) In German "Fix, Schwyz!", quäkt Jürgen blöd vom Paß.
Most of Bergerson's other original palindromes are credited not to himself but rather to Edwin Fitzpatrick, a fictitious 19th-century poet.
Šatrovački (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtroʋatʃkiː]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатровачки) or šatra (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtra]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатра) is an argot within the Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian languages comparable to verlan in French or vesre in Spanish.
Brazil also had a show in the 1960s and again from 2012 to 2013 called Let's Play Hangman, hosted by Silvio Santos.
In another convention, perhaps first proposed by typographer Choz Cunningham in 2006, the tilde is placed after the period.
In 1932, the Egyptian Ministry of Education released a manifesto titled Crown Letters and Punctuation Marks and Their Positions of Use, which thoroughly explained the script and was very likely the first book ever written in Crown script.
Guinea language orthography The Guinea alphabet made use of several digraphs (including either "h" or "y" as the second letter), some of which represent consonants not present in European languages, and two diacritics (grave accent and diaeresis) for open vowels.
Some textbooks of New Testament Greek for foreigners have retained the breathings, but dropped all the accents in order to simplify the task for the learner.
So in words of French origin like Orange (orange), logieren (to lodge) or Etage (floor), the g is pronounced as [ʒ]; words taken from English like Gin or Gender use the /dʒ/-sound.
The Greek language question (Greek: το γλωσσικό ζήτημα, to glossikó zítima) was a dispute about whether the vernacular of the Greek people (Demotic Greek) or a cultivated literary language based on Ancient Greek (Katharevousa) should be the prevailing language of the people and government of Greece.
437 “Issues of Ukrainian Orthography”, which approved a new version of “Ukrainian Orthography” allegedly due to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine did not have the appropriate competence.
When according to the rules below, a hamza with an alif seat would occur before an alif which represents the vowel ā, a single alif is instead written with the maddah symbol over it.
Mixtures It is acceptable in Spanish to begin a sentence with an opening upside-down exclamation mark ("¡") and end it with a question mark ("?"), or vice versa, for statements that are questions but also have a clear sense of exclamation or surprise such as: ¡Y tú quién te crees?
In metrical texts, a double daṇḍa is used to delimit verses, and a single daṇḍa to delimit a pada, line, or semi-verse.
History The rule of nine for spelling words of foreign language origin was first formulated in 1913 by the authors of the grammar of the Ruthenian language, Stepan Smal-Stotsky and Theodor Gartner, modeled on a similar rule for the Polish language.
A phonemic orthography is an orthography in which the graphemes correspond consistently to the language's phonemes, or more generally to the language's diaphonemes.
Soon after his wife Devora's death, three of his children died of diphtheria within a period of 10 days.
Ch also occurs as a digraph in certain words but it is not considered as a grapheme on its own right in terms of collation.
When a hyphen is called for, the hyphen-minus is a common choice as it is well known, easy to enter on keyboards, and still the only form recognized by many data formats and computer languages.
While majuscule scripts were originally used to write entire texts, their letters eventually came to be used primarily with the modern function of uppercase letters in European writing, so the term may sometimes be used as a synonym of 'uppercase letter' or 'capital' in contemporary contexts.
Those who prefer lower case claim their preferences gives greater legibility." Wheildon, who informs us that "When a person reads a line of type, the eye recognizes letters by the shapes of their upper halves", asserts that recognizing words in all caps "becomes a task instead of a natural process".
Using this program, kindergarten and 1st-grade students progressed much faster in reading skills than students receiving business-as-usual instruction.
At the same time, everyday writing was carried out in a cursive variant of the block capitals, which during the Middle Ages evolved into new letterforms for use in running text that were more legible and faster to write with an ink pen, such as Carolingian minuscule.
Indicating initialisms In initialisms, the Geresh is written after the last letter of the initialism.
Modern use The pilcrow remains in use in modern documents in the following ways: In legal writing, it is often used whenever one cites a specific paragraph within pleadings, law review articles, statutes, or other legal documents and materials.
It is generally agreed that the two systems were invented independently from one another; both evolved from proto-writing systems between 3400 and 3100 BC, with the earliest coherent texts dated c.
Shallow orthographies, such as Italian and Finnish, have a close relationship between graphemes and phonemes, and the spelling of words is very consistent.
Without short vowels or geminate consonants being written, modern Arabic script نظر nẓr could represent نَظَرَ /naðˤara/ 'he saw', نَظَّرَ /naðˤːara/ 'he compared', نُظِرَ /nuðˤira/ 'he was seen', نُظِّرَ /nuðˤːira/ 'he was compared', نَظَر /naðˤar/ 'a glance', or نِظْر /niðˤr/ 'similar'.
The particle ⟨не⟩ and the preposition ⟨без⟩ are written unchanged, independently of pronunciation: ⟨не быў⟩, instead of ⟨ня быў⟩; and ⟨без мамы⟩, instead of ⟨бяз мамы⟩ (compare with English definite article "the").
External links Works by Giovanni Giorgio Trissino at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Gian Giorgio Trissino at the Internet Archive Gallo, Valentina (2019).
Vowel diacritics Like Urdu, Shahmukhi also has diacritics, which are implied - a convention retained from the original Arabic script, to express short vowels.
Words which begin with ڑ are exceedingly rare, but some have been documented in Shahmukhi dictionaries such as Iqbal Salahuddin's Waddi Punjabi Lughat.
Historically, Icelandic text was supported by ISO 8859-1, followed by Windows-1252, which added various characters unrelated to Icelandic.
The common hijāʾī sequence, read from right to left, is: Persian uses a slightly different order, in which و comes before ه instead of after it.
Physiological background The brain Using positron emission tomography (PET) scans and event-related potentials, researchers have located two separate areas in the fusiform gyrus that respond specifically to strings of letters.
Within each example sentence, the parenthetical phrase is the portion that is displayed in an italic font.
Kodava Takk is generally written in the Kannada script, but can also be found written in the Malayalam script, especially along the borders with Kerala.
The original sound value is a voiceless bilabial plosive /p/ and it retains this value in most Semitic languages, except for Arabic, where the sound /p/ changed into the voiceless labiodental fricative /f/, carrying with it the pronunciation of the letter.
Thus, in addition to the various versions below, the name of Hǫðr could come out as: Hod, Hoðr, Hödhr, Hödr, Höd, Höð, Hoð, etcetera List of names A list of some commonly encountered Old Norse names with variant spellings.
It is called a "parenthetical" phrase even when it is not delimited by any brackets (such as round – [or square] – brackets).
⟨lipid⟩, ⟨limit⟩ but ⟨wining⟩, ⟨winning⟩ Disambiguation of graphemes Where graphemes ambiguously represent more than one sound, they are rewritten to be less ambiguous.
There were several sounds that were unfamiliar to European languages, like the implosive b and d, the ejective y, the velar n (in the initial position), prenasalised consonants, and long vowels.
Of these two scholars, the Rolbiidorj’s numerals, their names and sequencing are commonly accepted and used today, for example, in the calculations and documents pertaining to the Mongolian Government budget.
Phonetic spelling The following table lays out Gill's proposed system of phonetic spelling: Word-final 'ü' is sometimes spelt 'u', as in 'tu chanʒ'.
Eth is also used in Faroese and Elfdalian, while thorn was used in many historical languages such as Old English.
Guest editor-authors have included Colin Banks, John Cage, Adrian Frutiger, Dick Higgins, Richard Kostelanetz, Craig Saper, and George Steiner.
For example bāʾ (ب), tāʾ (ت), thāʾ (ث) are grouped as they have the same base shape or rasm (ٮ) and are differentiated only by consonant pointing known as iʻjām.
A capitonym is a word that changes its meaning (and sometimes pronunciation) when it is capitalized; the capitalization usually applies due to one form being a proper noun or eponym.
Other uses In proofreading, the undertie was used to indicate that word in a manuscript had been divided incorrectly by a space.
Among the longest are "hILLBILLIES" and "SLEIghBELLS" at 11, "gLOSSOLOgIES" and "BIBLIOLOgIES" at 12 letters, and "hEEBEEgEEBEES" at 13 letters, although the latter is not listed under that spelling in the Oxford Dictionary.
In particular, he said, the \ was needed so that the ALGOL Boolean operators ∧ (logical conjunction) and ∨ (logical disjunction) could be composed using /\ and \/ respectively.
Some scholars treat Tartessian as a redundant semi-syllabary, with essentially syllabic glyphs followed by the letter for the corresponding vowel; others treat it as a redundant alphabet, with the choice of an essentially consonantal character decided by the following vowel.
The change began in the 7th century, and by the 14th century, the protoscholastic model was the standard.
In Croatian, it is most often referred to by the English word at (pronounced et), and less commonly and more formally, with the preposition pri (with the addressee in the nominative case, not locative as per usual rection of pri), meaning 'at', 'chez' or 'by'.
There have been manifold discussions and studies concerning the interpretation and translation since the master handcopy by François Thureau-Dangin was published in 1922.
A second lacuna in Italian's shallow orthography is that, although stress position in words is only very partially predictable, it is normally not indicated in writing.
Conversely, in the languages of Western Europe, the dot (formally, tittle) on a lower-case ⟨i⟩ is not a glyph in itself because it does not convey any distinction, and an |ı| in which the dot has been accidentally omitted is still likely to be recognized correctly.
This may create difficulties for plain-text search, unless it uses a conforming Unicode collation algorithm (UCA) with the appropriate tailoring for the Hebrew script, where these controls are assigned ignorable weights after the initial normalization.
Characters similar to apostrophe U+0027 ' APOSTROPHE U+0060 ` GRAVE ACCENT U+00B4 ´ ACUTE ACCENT U+02B9 ʹ MODIFIER LETTER PRIME U+02BB ʻ MODIFIER LETTER TURNED COMMA Hawaiian ʻokina and for the transliteration of Arabic and Hebrew ʻayn.
Word processors Professional desktop publishing applications supporting genuine small caps include Quark XPress, and Adobe Creative Suite applications.
Modern Hebrew uses the forms פ כ‎ finally, when transcribing a plosive pronunciation, for example מיקרוסקופ‎ (microscope), מובארכ‎ (Mubarak, مبارك), while their final forms ף ך‎, are transcribing a fricative pronunciation, for example כך‎ (Kach), שף‎ (Chef).
In MacOS When using the US keyboard, a bullet point character can be produced by pressing 8 while keeping Option(Alt) pressed.
In languages using the ISO basic Latin alphabet, terminal punctuation marks are defined as the period, the question mark, and the exclamation mark.
For example, in German, where all nouns are capitalized, there are many pairs such as Laut 'sound' ~ laut 'loud' or Morgen 'morning' ~ morgen 'tomorrow'.
Historiated initial A historiated initial is an initial, an enlarged letter at the beginning of a paragraph or other section of text, that contains a picture.
In spoken Chinese, a single syllable is used in many different words, and a Chinese child must cope with having many written characters that represent the same syllable.
All communication is achieved through the use of symbols: for example, a red octagon is a common symbol for "STOP"; on maps, blue lines often represent rivers; and a red rose often symbolizes love and compassion.
The orthography of Greek includes several digraphs, including various pairs of vowel letters that used to be pronounced as diphthongs but have been shortened to monophthongs in pronunciation.
by De Saussure) connect *dhu̯es- "smoke, spirit", attested in Baltic and Germanic words for "spook" and ultimately cognate with Latin fumus "smoke." The earliest attested form of the word is the Mycenaean Greek te-o (plural te-o-i), written in Linear B syllabic script.
Orthographic similarities Does not use ض‎, ص‎, ز‎, ذ‎, خ‎, ث‎, ظ‎ , these characters are only used for Arabic loanwords across all systems Always uses diacritics for vowels, which is rare among non-African Arabic writing systems which usually imply vowels.
In the modern languages, there is sometimes a stronger contrast from Old Gaelic in the assumed meaning of "broad" and "slender"; the phonetic distinction can be more complex than mere "velarisation"/"palatalisation".
Pronouns referring to a god are also often capitalized by adherents to a religion as an indication of reverence, and are traditionally in the masculine gender ("He", "Him", "His" etc) unless specifically referring to a goddess.
In 2006, the society called for apostrophes to be used in the names of Harrods, Selfridges, and Currys.
See also Japanese typographic symbols References External links Media related to Iteration marks at Wikimedia Commons
The rarity of pre-Hispanic baybayin texts has led to a common misconception that fanatical Spanish priests must have destroyed the majority of native documents.
The conference was conducted and hosted by the National Office of International Promotion of Chinese Language and Board of Language Usage & Applications of the Ministry of Education of China.
Several scholars have argued that the syllable block structure is a good fit for the phonology and speech cadence of Korean.
Furthermore, loanwords assimilated into the Ukrainian language are often written according to their pronunciation, rather than necessarily following the rule of nine, such as бурмистер (but бургомістр), вимпел, єхидна, імбир, кипарис, and лиман.
A codification of the rules of Russian orthography and punctuation and the Spelling Dictionary of the Russian Language were published in 1956 but only a few minor orthographic changes were introduced at that time.
Attempts to apply such an alphabet for the Nivkh language, which is not related to Nanai, can only be considered as a curiosity.
In Maltese alphabet the digraphs GĦ and IE are treated as single letters, and each is listed after the first character of the pair.
In an essay entitled "For Brevity And Clarity", published in 1887, Ambrose Bierce facetiously proposed the "snigger point" or "note of cachinnation": It is written thus ◡ and represents, as nearly as may be, a smiling mouth.
Pedro Chirino, a Spanish priest and Antonio de Morga noted in 1604 and 1609 that most Filipino men and women could read baybayin.
Various old features, like ⟨ð⟩, had not seen much use in the later centuries, so Rask's standard constituted a major change in practice.
More than 40,000 words were written on the article's talk page (a page for editors to discuss changes to the article) before a consensus was reached to capitalize the "I".
Some Christians changed their profile pictures to the letter ن as a symbol of support, calling it the "Mark of the Nazarene".
Capitalization (American English) or capitalisation (Commonwealth English) is the practice of writing a word with its first letter as a capital letter (uppercase letter) and the remaining letters in lower case, in writing systems with a case distinction.
Options for Overline are available under the menu: "Format > Character", enabling the default solid Overline to be replaced with double overline, dots, dashes, waves, double waves, and the color of the Overline can be set.
Symbolic action may overlap with symbolic speech, such as the use of flag burning to express hostility or saluting the flag to express patriotism.
Hebrew In the Hebrew alphabet the final form is called sofit (Hebrew: סופית, meaning "final" or "ending").
See also Cave Beck Constructed language Emoji Engineered language Ideogram Jacob Linzbach Joseph de Maimieux Philosophical language == References ==
Characters in red are only used in loanwords from Arabic, and characters in green are characters unique to Ajami.
The difference between this form was the use of the letter Ҥ ҥ instead of the standard Ӈ ӈ , use of additional characters Ҕ ҕ, Һ һ, Ү ү, Ө ө, Дь дь, Нь нь (Ү ү was not officially entered into the alphabet, but was used in practice), and also the display long vowels by doubling them.
Mem (also spelled Meem, Meme, or Mim) is the thirteenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Hebrew mēm מ‎, Aramaic mem 𐡌, Syriac mīm ܡ, Arabic mīm م‎, and Phoenician mēm 𐤌.
IBM code page 850 (an MS-DOS character set covering all ISO 8859-1 characters) placed it at position 240 = 0xF0.
Min Dong Foochow Romanized Min Bei Kienning Colloquial Romanized Japanese Romanization (or, more generally, Roman letters) is called "rōmaji" in Japanese.
For example, a silent ⟨e⟩ usually indicates the soft pronunciation, as in change; this may be maintained before a suffix to indicate this pronunciation (as in changeable), despite the rule that usually drops this letter.
The alphabet has since been superseded by the adoption of the Filipino alphabet (with an additional eight letters and repositioning of the letter K) in 1987.
The Unicode standard recommends using this character also in other Indic scripts, like Bengali, Telugu, Oriya, and others.
The Ministry of Education's manifesto specified that Crown Letters may be used with Naskh and Rok’a scripts.
Phonemic orthographies have the highest possible level of orthographic depth, as they have exact grapheme to phoneme correspondence.
Although Modern Mandarin has numerous polysyllabic words, and each syllable is written with a distinct character, the conceptual link between character and word or at least morpheme remains strong, and no need is felt for word separation apart from what characters already provide.
Protoscholastic writing refers to the period in the Middle Ages when writing styles changed from liturgical models, mere adjuncts to the recitation of prayer, to a more complex form.
So, for example, p {\displaystyle p} is the price of the home good and p ∗ {\displaystyle p^{*}} is the price of the foreign good, etc.
Matthijs Siegenbeek (Dutch pronunciation: [mɑˈtɛis ˈsiɣə(m)ˌbeːk]; 23 June 1774 in Amsterdam – 26 November 1854 in Leiden) was a Dutch academic.
Historically, the dinkus was often represented as an asterism, ⁂, though this has fallen out of favor and is now nearly obsolete.
Other examples given are the replacement of Sainte by "Saint" to accommodate the French adjective in its feminine form; or Archives in journal titles by "Archive".
The bowl on the left side can be filled or empty, and occasionally extends far enough downward that the character resembles a mirrored D.
Native descriptions of Cyrillic writing system often use the term "digraph" to combinations ⟨ьо⟩ and ⟨йо⟩ (Bulgarian, Ukrainian) as they both correspond to a single letter ⟨ё⟩ of Russian and Belarusian alphabets (⟨ьо⟩ is used for /ʲo/, and ⟨йо⟩ for /jo/).
It was used much in the same way by later scholars to mark differences between various translations or versions of the Bible and other manuscripts.
The Pe̍h-ōe-jī of Taiwanese Hokkien and Pha̍k-fa-sṳ of Taiwanese Hakka were also created with by the western missionaries.
Geresh (׳‎ in Hebrew: גֶּרֶשׁ‎ or גֵּרֶשׁ‎ [ˈɡeʁeʃ], or medieval [ˈɡeːɾeːʃ]) is a sign in Hebrew writing.
A dinkus dividing a larger section is intended is to maintain a sense of continuity within the overall chapter or section while changing elements of the setting or timeline.
Ideographic runes appear to have mainly been used for saving space, but they were also mainly used without inflection.
Heffernan recalls that, in 1949, her family moved to work in the Jervois Range, far east and towards the Queensland border, where her father had gotten a job with Kurt Johannsen working on a copper mine which had been abandoned.
The DZ and IJ digraphs and the Serbian/Croatian digraphs DŽ, LJ, and NJ have separate code points in Unicode.
Modern use In a manuscript (or typescript) to be typeset, various forms of underlining (see below) were therefore conventionally used to indicate that text should be set in special type such as italics, part of a procedure known as markup.
Hieratic continued to be used by the priestly class for religious texts and literature into the third century CE.
These are some of the most functional of the rune names, occurring relatively often in written language, unlike the elusive peorð, for example, which would be of little or no use as an abbreviation because of its rarity.
Variable names: Some programming languages are case-sensitive for their variable names while others are not.
Forster, and Somerset Maugham, she says: "Done knowingly by an established writer, the comma splice is effective, poetic, dashing.
The most likely explanation for the absence of final consonant markers in baybayin is therefore that its direct ancestor was a South Sulawesi script.
With the advent of Unicode and more easily customized computer keyboards, the need for such workarounds has lessened.
Children learning to read do not immediately realize that allographs represent the same character; the skills develop over the initial years of reading instruction.
Modes for other languages Since the publication of the first official description of the Tengwar at the end of The Lord of the Rings, others have created modes for other languages such as English, Spanish, German, Swedish, French, Finnish, Italian, Hungarian and Welsh.
Italian giorno, French mangeons), though Spanish, Portuguese, French and Catalan use ⟨j⟩ as in jueves.
This system was widely used within the country but differed from the orthographies of neighboring countries of West Africa, as developed in the wake of the 1966 Bamako expert meeting on harmonizing orthographies of the cross-border languages of the region.
In December 2019, when Richards was 95, he announced that the society was shutting down, saying that, despite its efforts, "fewer organisations and individuals are now caring about the correct use of the apostrophe".
The hypodiastole was similar in appearance to the comma and was eventually entirely conflated with it.
Additionally, the letter "i" is used after these nine consonants if it appears at the end of an uninflected loanword, such as колібрі, парі, фрі, and таксі, though таксист is an exception to this rule.
The other main difference is in the fourth tyellë below, where those letters with raised stems and doubled bows can be either voiced fricatives, as in Sindarin (general mode at right), or nasalized stops, as in Quenya (classical mode).
In Ada 2022, @ is the target name symbol, an abbreviation of the LHS of an assignment; it is used to avoid repetition of potentially long names in assignment statements.
The obelos symbol (see obelus) gets its name from the spit, or sharp end of a lance in ancient Greek.
In this context it may be called a "continued line" as the current line continues into the next one.
Hokkien In Pe̍h-ōe-jī for Taiwanese Hokkien, middle dot is often used as a workaround for the dot above right diacritic, since most early encoding systems did not support this diacritic.
The Unicode character ’ (U+2019 right single quotation mark) is used for both a typographic apostrophe and a single right (closing) quotation mark.
The Fernaig manuscript (Scottish Gaelic: Làmh-sgrìobhainn Fheàrnaig or Làmh-sgrìobhainn MhicRath) is a document containing approximately 4,200 lines of verse consisting largely of political and religious themes.
The transliteration of Greek names follows Latin transliteration of Ancient Greek; modern transliteration is different, and does not distinguish many letters and digraphs that have merged by iotacism.
Rarely in Assyrian cuneiform, but commonly in the later cuneiform Ugaritic alphabet, a vertical stroke 𒑰 was used to separate words.
A particular system's characteristics may make it better-suited for various, sometimes contradictory applications, including document retrieval, linguistic analysis, easy readability, faithful representation of pronunciation.
Romanization standards include the following: Arabic Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft (1936): Adopted by the International Convention of Orientalist Scholars in Rome.
Superscript letters: Regular letters contained in the word or letters specifically for abbreviation purposes.
Parentheses have historically been used where the em dash is currently used in alternatives, such as "parenthesis)(parentheses".
However, they were covered in CR 14400:2001 "European ordering rules – Ordering for Latin, Greek, Cyrillic, Georgian and Armenian scripts".
109] In some other countries (such as England and Wales), square brackets are used to indicate that the year is part of the citation and parentheses are used to indicate the year the judgment was given.
Minimal pairs A pair of words like kátur and gátur (above) that differ only in one phone is called a minimal pair for the two alternative phones in question (in this case, [kʰ] and [k]).
Examples of this would include any continuous reading material, posters, bus cards, billboards, magazine advertising copy, headings in books, business forms and records, titles of articles, books and book chapters, and newspaper headlines.
The last country to maintain it was Chile, where the norms of the Royal Spanish Academy (RAE) were adopted in 1927.
In programming languages Some programming languages are case-sensitive for their identifiers (C, C++, Java, C#, Verilog, Ruby, Python and Swift).
Even among supporters of simplification, some make the argument that Classical Chinese texts should not be printed in simplified Chinese because of the complexities involved in the use of tōngjiǎ (通假) or phonetic loan characters.
Austroasiatic languages Khmer script (for Khmer language) Khom script (for Bahnaric languages) Chữ Nôm (historical writing for Vietnamese language) Austronesian languages Most Austronesian languages use Latin script today.
Although (E) is taken as /j/, most current speakers, and likely historical speakers, pronounce it as /jᵊ/ which is represented here.
1986: Brazil invites the other six Portuguese language countries, Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal and São Tomé and Príncipe, to a meeting in Rio de Janeiro to address the remaining problems.
At Batchelor she collaborated with linguist Gavan Breen and, together, they developed the Arrernte orthography.
It can also be used to indicate a spot where a character is supposed to be, but it is rarely used for other purposes.
For instance, if the user wished to write "The fog was dense", but instead put "The dog was dense", a grammar and spell checker would not notify the user because both phrases are grammatically correct, as is the spelling of the word "dog".
The difference between "macron below" and "low line" is that the latter results in an unbroken underline when it is run together: compare a̱ḇc̱ and a̲b̲c̲ (only the latter should look like abc).
The term is infrequently used, as the number of letters is usually specified: Some multigraphs are considered ligatures, or letters unto themselves, such as ⟨ij⟩ in Dutch, ⟨dzs⟩ in Hungarian, and ⟨dž⟩ in Serbo-Croatian and a few other Slavic languages.
Morris commented that the incident shows the impact small groups of Wikipedia editors can have, especially in situations more severe than a simple capitalized letter.
Sholem Aleichem is widely credited with elevating the prestige of Yiddish language as a cultured language in its own right.
Some publications claim that "Тунгусский букварь" (in English, "Tungus language children's primer (or ABC-book), written 1858), as well as the dictionary and translation of the Gospel of Matthew that followed it, were in the Evenki language.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
Smotrytskyi's "Grammar" of 1619 (17th and 18th centuries) In 1619, Meletius Smotrytskyi's work «Грамматіка славенскія правилноє синтагма» was published, where Slavic-Ukrainian writing was partially adapted to Ukrainian phonetics.
Subtitles, such as in Teletext, sometimes use an exclamation mark within parentheses, (!), to mark sarcasm.
Two modern well-known examples of syllabaries consisting mostly of CV syllabograms are the Japanese kana, used to represent the same sounds in different occasions.
The work which, despite its name, was distinct from Logonomia Anglica, probably dates from the period between the second edition of Logonomia Anglica (1621) and the Sacred Philosophie.
Capital Crown Letters are different from small letters in a sense that they possess a loop—or an upside-down لا—on top of them; letters that may connect to the next letter also connect to that loop, whereas letters that do not connect to the next letter also don't connect to that loop.
The upside-down (also inverted, turned or rotated) question mark ¿ and exclamation mark ¡ are punctuation marks used to begin interrogative and exclamatory sentences or clauses in Spanish and some languages that have cultural ties with Spain, such as Asturian and Waray.
The characters for "single" guillemets (European-style single quotation marks, ‹ and ›) are also occasionally used to indicate angle brackets, and normal guillemets (European-style double quotation marks, « and ») used when "nested" (ie, double) angle brackets are needed.
De orthographia bohemica (English: On Bohemian Orthography) is a Latin work published between 1406 and 1412.
It was sometimes added to completed texts as a form of obelism alongside other marginalia, including the obelus.
These scripts in turn gave rise to many of the most important scripts of India, including Devanāgarī (the most common script used for writing Sanskrit since the 19th century), the Gurmukhī script for Punjabi, the Bengali-Assamese script and the Tibetan script.
Example As an example, consider Aṣṭādhyāyī 6.1.77: iKaḥ yaṆ aCi: iK means i u ṛ ḷ, iKaḥ is iK in the genitive case, so it means ' in place of i u ṛ ḷ; yaṆ means the semivowels y v r l and is in the nominative, so iKaḥ yaṆ means: y v r l replace i u ṛ ḷ.
Notable English misspellings in history Arab, Alabama – This town in north Alabama was named Arad, after its founder, Arad Thompson, but the name was misspelled on a US Post Office map as "Arab", and the misspelled name stuck.
Examples of orthographic transcription are "Pushkin" and "Pouchkine", respectively the English and French orthographic transcriptions of the surname "Пу́шкин" in the name Алекса́ндр Пу́шкин (Alexander Pushkin).
Ajay Prakash Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and IT, Government of India said that India Language Stack can help overcome the barriers of communication.
This orthography is not a single standardised form, but rather a set of orthographical practices which exhibit a basic "core" of shared graphemes and a small amount of divergence in several areas.
Robert Slavin, of BEE, goes so far as to suggest that states should "hire thousands of tutors" to support students scoring far below grade level – particularly in elementary school reading.
These lists are printed in the Mikraot Gedolot (rabbinical Bible), in the texts of Baer-Delitzsch and Christian David Ginsburg's Masorah vol.
For example, among the first characters usually learned is the number one, which is written with a single horizontal line: 一.
This book included an Arte of Brachygraphie, one of the earliest attempts to construct a system of shorthand.
The DUCET is customizable for different languages, and some such customizations can be found in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR).
The second component is related to the diversity at the graphemic level, and to the complexity of determining the graphemic elements of a word (graphemic parsing), i.e., how to align a phonemic transcription to its spelling counterpart.
In previous centuries of classical scholarship, scholars who published texts from inscriptions, papyri, or manuscripts used divergent conventions to indicate the condition of the text and editorial corrections or restorations.
The first list of the scheme was put into use nationwide on 1 February 1956, followed by the rest characters in batches.
The Latin script originally had only majuscule forms directly derived from the Greek alphabet, which were originally viable for being chiseled into stone.
Misspellings of the latter type are called "atomic typos", and they can easily make their way into printed material because they are not caught by simple computer spell checkers.
Bullet operator A variant, the bullet operator (U+2219 ∙ BULLET OPERATOR), has a Unicode code point but its purpose does not appear to be documented.
During his period of priestly formation with the Society of Jesus, he studied the Breton language in order to teach the faith to the Breton peasants.
History The Sinckan Manuscripts are one of the earliest written materials of several Formosan languages, including Siraya and Taivoan.
2 = 10,4; this usage is impractical in cases where the point is used as a decimal separator, hence the use of the interpunct: 5.2 · 2 = 10.4.
In contrast, in Italian, as well as Spanish, very few words (except proper names) are capitalized, so there are extremely few, if any, such pairs.
The son-in-law of Maurice Grevisse, he took over editing and updating Grevisse's last book, Le Bon Usage.
Psalms - seven times in Psalm 107 (vs 23-28, vs 40) The images at right show three common variants of the inverted nun – vertically flipped, horizontally flipped, and Z-shaped.
In English, they are often unmarked and must therefore be memorized, or more likely deduced, as exceptions.
An obelos was placed by editors on the margins of manuscripts, especially in Homer, to indicate lines that may not have been written by Homer.
Works Grammar Logonomia Anglica, qua gentis sermo facilius addiscitur, London, by John Beale, 1619, 2nd edit.
The earliest Classical Greek and Roman texts were written in all capital letters with minimal spacing; punctuation was sparse and not standardized.
Mechanical type and the advent of the typewriter Mechanical type systems introduced near the end of the 19th century, such as the Linotype and Monotype machines, allowed for some variable sentence spacing similar to hand composition.
See also Formosan languages Taiwanese indigenous peoples Languages of Taiwan References Further reading External links Taiwanese Indigenous Ebooks Archived 2022-03-03 at the Wayback Machine: This site provides open access ebooks for the indigenous languages.
In Sanskrit, the additional symbol of two vertical lines U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA is used to mark the end of a poetic verse.
For a short time in Nikolayevsk-on-Amur, the newspaper "Nivxgu mәkәr-qlaj-d̦if" ("The Nivkh truth") was published in this alphabet.
Gender star The gender star is another recent, nonstandard typographic convention influenced by feminist linguistics.
This project differed from the alphabet created by Vasilyevich only in the inclusion of letters used only in Russian loanwords (C c, F f, J j, Ш ш, Z z), and also the usage of the letter V v instead of W w, Ç ç instead of Ч ч, as well as the exclusion of the letter Y y.
Cantonese dim sum culture developed rapidly during the latter half of the nineteenth century in Guangzhou.
Ryōwa claimed his family lineage for the Ogasawara Ko school, making him the 4th generation grandmaster after Furuichi Inei.
The procedure and requirements vary by school, but generally only advanced students who have been licensed to take students of their own, and may thus be addressed as sensei, are given a tea name.
Jean Brindesi's early 19th-century oil paintings about Istanbul daily life show simit sellers on the streets.
Coming out in the public markets in 2008 at the World Tea Expo, TeaGschwendner was the highest ranked tea merchant with 27/30 judged teas in a top three respective category; comparably, the next competing company, Rishi Tea, was closer to 13/30.
The tea-drinking habits of Hong Kong residents derive from Chinese tea culture, primarily the Cantonese traditions such as yum cha.
History The origin of the cream tea is disputed, although there is evidence to suggest that the tradition of eating bread with cream and jam existed at Tavistock Abbey in Devon in the 11th century.
Description Cheese tea consists of cold green or black tea topped with a layer of cream cheese blended with cream or condensed milk, creating a cap that can be either sweet or slightly salty.
The drink, already common in Europe, was a favourite of his new Portuguese bride, Catherine of Braganza.
Other collaborations include partnerships with McDonald's, BT21, Horlicks from GlaxoSmithKline, and biscuit brand Julie's.
The appearance of shell cups can be used as a virtual marker for the advent of Hopewell culture in many instances.
As of 2018, more than 60 cafés that were reported to have such activities were closed by the Iraqi authorities.
Altogether, that would be enough silver to buy ten thousand horses." King Seonjo, however, replied "We do not have a tea drinking custom in our country." Late-Joseon dynasty- Japanese Occupation to 1980s Tea was reintroduced to Korea by the Japanese in 1890s, the same time coffee was introduced.
The Herveys Range Heritage Tea Rooms are an historical cafe located at the top of the Hervey Range, approximately 32 kilometres (20 mi) north-west of Townsville in North Queensland, Australia.
It was initially constructed during the Edo period and later relocated due to its deteriorated state and is now in the gardens of the Tokyo National Museum.
There are other indications that Heidegger was inspired by Eastern writings, but let's leave this topic here.
Many hotels and fine Chinese cuisine restaurants offer mooncakes packaged in elaborate boxes with multiple compartments and jeweled clasps.
History The tea house was originally constructed with materials from Kiyosu Castle based on the design by Lord Furuta Oribe (1544–1615).
The classical door case is surmounted by a pediment with a statue of a golden lion, and two figures of Chinese men who signify the origin of the beverage.
The most common type of black tea is from Assam; however, a blend of different tea variations may be used.
It originally derived from the tea-growing region around Mount Jiulong in the South of Jiangxi Province in China, where the tea pickers would sing lengthy songs to each other whilst undertaking the monotonous task of tea-picking.
Waste and Over-packaging Behind Mooncake Mooncake packaging has become increasingly fancy and wasteful due to its giftability.
See also Golden Tea Room Notes References Further reading Floorplan, 3-D view, history, and extensive photos, from Columbia University
This privilege was limited for the upper class, and financially out of reach for most working-class locals.
In 1973, the 32nd head of the Ogasawara family, Ogasawara Tadamune, assumed the head of the Ogasawara Ko school of chanoyu to promote a resurgence of the school.
It was formerly a tea-house and music venue situated in the West End of Glasgow where it served teas, as well as vegetarian and vegan foodstuffs.
Eierkoeken experienced increased popularity in the early 2000s when dietitian Sonja Bakker introduced them as a healthy snack option.
Luk Yu (Chinese: 陸羽茶室) is a teahouse and dim sum restaurant located on Stanley Street, in the Central area of Hong Kong, established in 1933.
Locations Chai Point has presence in eight Indian cities with presence across retail locations, airports, and business parks.
In 1986 the Kakurintei Document was discovered, some 140 years after it was erected and a movement to reconstruct the Kakurintei was started under the auspices of the Saga Prefectural Culture Federation, the Saga Prefectural Tea Ceremony Association and other groups.
Tea bricks were preferred in Asian trade prior to the 19th century, since they were more compact and less susceptible to physical damage than loose leaf tea.
The name "Mushakōjisenke" for the other of the three lines of the family derives from the fact that the family's homestead is located along Mushakōji street.
A popular use of the tea is in cocktails where the showmanship of the cocktail making incorporates the instantaneous color change in front of the patron that ordered the drink.
In addition to designing the internal architectural alterations and a new external façade, in collaboration with his wife Margaret, Mackintosh designed almost every other aspect of the tearooms, including the interior design, furniture, cutlery, menus, and even the waitress uniforms.
Although Browning was arrested several times during these raids, the Rangers were unable to successfully charge him with any crimes until 1950, when he was indicted on gambling-related charges.
Amuleek Singh, however, created an entire ecosystem of making the tea and its packaging more appealing to white collar Indians who were latching on to the high end coffee joints.
The confidence of her owners was such that, before proving the profitability of Agamemnon in service, they were building two sister ships, Achilles (1866) and Ajax (1867).
The ability to drag a long stream of tea above the heads of the patrons without giving them a shower is an amusing novelty for the locals and tourists alike.
The Hatakeyama Memorial Museum of Fine Art (畠山記念館, Hatakeyama Kinenkan) is a private museum established in October 1964 in Tokyo, Japan.
Dishes include waffles, Eggs Benedict, idli burgers, akuri, ragi dhokla, chicken dishes, tortellini, sandwiches, soups, salads and various desserts, among others.
By the later 19th century, jumble dough had become substantially softer, and some recipes called for the cook to firm up the dough on ice for several hours before shaping.
In other parts of the Middle East, in Egypt it is consumed with boiled eggs and/or duggah, which is a mixture of herbs used as condiments.
A faithful reproduction of the front part of the house is located in the Tokugawa Art Museum which showcases a rotating exhibit of Japanese tea utensils.
The Book of Tea (茶の本, Cha no Hon) by Okakura Kakuzō is a long 1906 essay linking the role of chadō (teaism) to the aesthetic and cultural aspects of Japanese life and protesting Western caricatures of "the East".
See also Afternoon tea Tea party Tea sandwich Cuisine of Devon Cornish cuisine References Further reading Smillie, Susan (20 May 2010).
It was transported from Osaka Castle to Hizen Nagoya Castle in the fifth month of Bunroku 1 (1592), from where Hideyoshi launched the Japanese invasions of Korea (1592–98).
He then made a fair copy of the seven volumes, and the book was named Southern Record for the first time.
Eventually, Sōtan's youngest son, Sensō Sōshitsu, inherited that part of the estate, which came to be known as the home of the Urasenke.
Tea bricks were in fact the preferred form of currency over metallic coins for the nomads of Mongolia and Siberia.
Despite his illness, Bramah had been working on a book which was to be called Britain's Tea Heritage.
However, this results in the drink getting gradually diluted as the ice melts, leading to some restaurants preparing their cold milk tea via ice-less methods as a selling point.
Congressman De Priest responded to the Southern insults with strong language of his own in public comments.
The company also claims (although this is contested) to have invented the "original" recipe for Earl Grey tea, Grey having given the recipe to Robert Jackson & Co.
Malaysia nominated it, along with nasi lemak and roti canai, for 2024 United Nations recognition as intangible cultural heritage foods.
From the consumer perspective, milk tea is characterized by its sweet, creamy taste, suitable for many customers, not only students, but also children and office workers.
He described the first act as "Love"; the play opens auspiciously, using gentle themes and pleasant music to draw in the attention of the audience.
Tchai-Ovna Fine Teas, based in Glasgow, is a speciality leaf tea shop and blenders which retails a wide variety of tea online and wholesales to other businesses.
Teas from Europe and Asia were not introduced to Mexican agriculture, however, and have yet to reach the level of popularity that they have in many other countries.
Beginning in 1924, the Argentine government urged farmers to experiment by planting tea seeds that the government imported from China and then distributed to interested farmers.
Due to the tea pet not being glazed, the figurine absorbs some of the tea, resulting in the tea pet changing color over time, as well as building up a tea scent.
In his "sleek complacency", however, the Westerner tended to see in the tea ceremony only "another instance of the thousand and one oddities which constitute the quaintness and childishness of the East to him".
The texture of this type of mooncake crust is similar to the shortcrust pastry used in Western pie crusts or tart shells.
Quickly stores in San Francisco became the center of former Supervisor Ed Jew's extortion controversy, where he solicited bribes estimated at $84,000.
History Located in Mānoa Valley, the Waiʻoli Tea Room was formally dedicated in 1922, as part of the Salvation Army Girls' Home program to teach young women marketable job skills.
In the bakeries of Chinatown, San Francisco, it is commonly referred to as "sponge cake." Preparation Traditionally prepared wrapped cakes are usually steamed in a wok pan, however, Chinese-American sponge cakes are usually baked in an oven.
Orwell says tea should be poured first because "one can exactly regulate the amount of milk whereas one is liable to put in too much milk if one does it the other way round".
had offered dim sum for decades, it was not until the late 1980s that there was a broader public awareness of dim sum.
Names usually include the character for "hut", "hall", or "arbour", and reflect the spirit of rustic simplicity of the tea ceremony and the teachings of Zen Buddhism.
Quickly was founded in California in 1996 and started its trademark licensing program at the same time.
Its creed is "Train (修練) in order to better oneself; Serve (奉仕) your community; Friendship (友情) toward the world and among members." At first, the organization was called Seinenkai.
It sits on the edge of Taipei Basin; the entire city of Taipei can be seen from the mountain, especially on a cloudless day.
The incident led to the island-wide anti-government uprising by the Taiwanese people called the February 28 incident and the implementation of White Terror in Taiwan from 1949 to 1987.
The Brazilian Café (Arabic: مقهى البرازيلية) was an old well-known coffeehouse in Baghdad, Iraq, that was notable for its European style and significant artistic legacy.
The photograph depicts six tea cups and saucers lit so to form shadows that suggest the form of ballet dancers.
Maghrebi mint tea (at-tāy): (Arabic: الشاي, romanized: aš-šāy; Maghrebi Arabic: التاي at-tāy) is a green tea prepared with spearmint leaves and sugar, traditional to the Maghreb region (the northwest African countries of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, and Mauritania).
The Tibetan monks would consume the butter tea twice a day and on occasion enjoy the beverage with paksuma, a special rice porridge.
Fare The Brooke Bond Taj Mahal Tea House is associated with and serves Brooke Bond Taj Mahal and other tea products, totaling over 40 tea varieties.
Content Addressed to a Western audience, it was originally written in English and is one of the great English tea classics.
The 17th-century traveler Evliya Çelebi wrote that there were 70 simit bakeries in Istanbul during the 1630s.
Although there are imports from Japan and China, Ryukyu also produces tea and tea sets locally, providing conditions for the consumption of tea by the Ryukyu people.
Teh tarik madu is teh tarik blended with honey as part of its preparation, which is usually served cold.
In 2001, Tealuxe reported that its top store grossed between $1million and $1.2million annually, comparable with a Starbucks store at the time.
Tavalon Tea is headquartered in New York, New York and operates a website for online retail purchases from their warehouse facility in , New Jersey.
History Eierkoeken have their origins in the Dutch province of Brabant, where they were traditionally made on Christmas and Easter, as well as throughout the rest of the year.
It was the world's first museum devoted to the history of tea and coffee, covering 400 years of commercial and social history of two commodities, since their arrival in Europe from Africa and the Far East.
Meimei-an was designed in the style of the Fumai-ko school of tea ceremony (茶道), which was created by the seventh Lord of the Matsudaira to rule from Matsue.
Following the writings of Zeami, all major forms of Japanese traditional drama (Noh, kabuki, and jōruri) utilize the concept of jo-ha-kyū, from the choice and arrangement of plays across a day, to the composition and pacing of acts within a play, down to the individual actions of the actors.
For a period, Lollicup offered a trademark licensing program, which allowed the licensees (operators) to maintain complete control over the store without having to pay a royalty fee.
This repeated the curved form of the first floor and emphasised the heavily recessed entrance to the building below.
At that time people bought tea leaves from tea houses so that they could serve tea to visiting guests.
European colonists adopted the production of the yaupon leaves from the Native peoples and made an infusion which they called by various names including yaupon tea, Indian tea, Carolina tea, South Seas tea or Appalachia tea.
The Elmwood Inn in Perryville, Kentucky is a historic building which served as a mansion, a battlefield hospital in 1862, as an academy during 1891–1925, and later as a restaurant and as a tea house, and then again as a private residence.
Other names are based on the Byzantine Greek kollikion (κολλίκιον), or Ancient Greek kollyra (κολλύρα), or Greek koulouri (κουλούρι).
They have proven to be an attraction for tourists in destinations such as Sultan Ahmet and Taksim in Istanbul.
Chashitsu which are larger than 4.5 mats are called hiroma ("big room"), while those that are smaller are called koma ("small room").
History The house was constructed in November 1846 (Kouka 3) at Kōno Park, at the command of the 10th lord of the Saga clan, Lord Naomasa Nabeshima.
Along with Omotesenke and Mushakōjisenke, it is one of the three lines of the Sen family descending from Sen no Rikyū, which together are known as the san-Senke or the "three Sen houses/families" (三千家).
In 1879, a baker advertised in a newspaper that eierkoeken are specially recommended by the medical gentlemen, though it was stated that they were not especially intended for sick people but were recommended as a special treat.
Jo-an has been relocated a number of times, but since 1972 has formed part of the Urakuen gardens in Inuyama, Aichi Prefecture, part of the historic Owari Province which the Oda clan ruled starting in the 15th century.
It emerged in the mid-20th century, particularly in the post-World War II era, and is often associated with functionality and affordability.
Mizuya (水屋; "water room") is the term for the preparation area in a Japanese tea house (chashitsu) or attached to any venue used for the Japanese tea ceremony.
Pratt has addressed audiences from Zurich, Switzerland (Le Club des Buveurs de The Suisse) and London's Kew Gardens to Hangzhou (China Tea Research Institute).
Common shorthands include 'kya seint,' 'paw seint,' and 'cho seint.' Sweet Sweet varieties are called a-cho (အချို), which are typically sweetened with more condensed milk, relative to standard varieties.
However, from 1890 to 1908, Southern states dominated by white conservative Democrats passed new constitutions and laws to disenfranchise most blacks, excluding them from the political system.
The museum specialises in the collection, study and display of teaware, including many samples of Yixing teapots, from Jiangsu Province, China, as well as the world's oldest known extant teapot.
The restoration of no 217 included extensive re-creation of Mackintosh's interior schemes and decorative elements lost over the years.
This picture evolved after I had bought some inexpensive cups and saucers from Woolworths for our studio coffee breaks to replace our rather worn old mugs.
Cardamom (Arabic: هال, romanized: hāl) tea is very common in the Arab world, and is known for its strong aroma.
Clipper «Cutty Sark» was built in 1869 at the Scottish shipyard «Linton & Scott» by special order of the shipowner John Willis, to participate in tea races.
The factory and museum are located on the slopes of Chokarmudy, one of South India's highest peaks, from which the entire valley of Lockhart can be seen.
5000 list of fastest-growing privately held companies in America, with a rank of 2939 for its 3-year growth of 123% and an estimated revenue of $60 million in 2013.
However, in 2010 Brazil's national anti-drug body approved the consumption of the drink for religious rituals after decades of studies and talks with religious institutions.
Features The teahouse was designed by Hayahiko Takase, blending Western and Eastern characteristics.
Established in 1885, it is known for its trademark Fuchun baozi and its self-made tea Kuilongzhu (Chinese: 魁龙珠).
A tea room may be a room set aside in a hotel, especially for serving afternoon tea, or may be an establishment that only serves cream tea.
Based on Üsküdar court records (Şer’iyye Sicili) dated 1593, the weight and price of simit was standardized for the first time.
This same concept was later adapted into jōruri and kabuki, where the plays are often arranged into five acts with jo-ha-kyū in mind.
His name was Harusato, however, his nickname was Fumai-ko, thus his style of tea ceremony also took on the name Fumai-ryu (不昧流).
About one hundred years later, in 1686, Tachibana Jitsuzan, the chief vassal of the Kuroda clan purportedly happened to find the book while heading to Edo with his lord.
These buildings are the original stables of the 18th century palazzo designed by Francesco De Sanctis, architect of the Spanish Steps.
According to legend Oda Nobunaga saw the pillar with the two knots and remarked to Toyotomi Hideyoshi that it looked like his face.
In music The cultural importance of Senegalese tea drinking was underlined in the song Ataya, a track on Ismaël Lô's 1986 album, Natt.
Aramaic: ܩܶܠܽܘܪܳܐ/ܩܸܠܘܿܪܵܐ (qeluro/qelora); Turkish: gevrek; South Slavic đevrek, ђеврек, gjevrek, ѓеврек, геврек.
They were Isabel Cargill, granddaughter of William Cargill, founder of the city of Dunedin in New Zealand and Anna Maria Babington, descendant of Anthony Babington who was hanged in 1586 for conspiring against Elizabeth I.
Baanders and Jan Baanders designed the pavilion in the Modernist Nieuwe Bouwen or Nieuwe Zakelijkheid style of architecture, a Dutch take on Bauhaus.
Lu Yu's, heavily influenced by Buddhism, particularly the Zen–Chán Buddhist school, strongly influenced the development of Japanese tea culture.
History In 1978, Wang Chen Tsai-Hsia and her husband, Wang Yuan-hong (王元宏), a businessman who was in the textile trade, founded the Shiatzy International Company Limited in 1978.
When drinking tea, first place the tea on your lap, then while holding the bowl lightly with your right hand, lift and lift it with your left hand.
This was a period of peace, economic and cultural prosperity, and increased domestic self-sufficiency in sugar.
Sometimes thyme, mint or rose water is added, which is believed to be good for the stomach and heart.
The extent of teamaster Rikyū's involvement in the design of the room is not known, however he was in attendance on a number of occasions when tea was being served to guests in the room.
The beverage is traditionally prepared in a gourd vessel, also called mate in Spanish and cuia (= gourd) in Portuguese, from which it is drunk.
During the Kingdom of Iraq, the country saw a massive growing movement of art and poetry, especially in the 1940s.
Cederberg Tea House was founded by a mother/daughter duo from Johannesburg, South Africa in 2013, and gained popularity as the only South African tea shop in Seattle, Washington.
The photograph was exhibited in the London Salon of Photography in 1935, the first work of Cotton's to be shown outside Australia.
In 1880 Tate acquired rights to another process, invented in Belgium by Gustav Adant, where sugar "tablets" were manufactured on rotating machines and then sliced into cubes (at the time, they were called "dominoes").
This concept is applied to elements of the Japanese tea ceremony, martial arts (kenjutsu, iaido, kendō, karate), dramatic structure in the traditional theatre, and to the traditional collaborative linked verse forms renga and renku (haikai no renga).
Britain imported goods and raw materials from its colonies, and exported its cultural traditions to them.
The factory allows public visits during regular working hours, allowing visitors the opportunity to observe the various stages of tea processing.
Tinkham's proposals were defeated but added to the South's feeling of threat from Hoover's administration.
The common people began to eat wagashi that used a lot of sugar, and various types of wagashi were produced, especially in Kyoto.
The Lockhart Tea factory produces about 20 million kilograms of tea annually and is owned by Harrisons Malayalam Limited, one of South India's largest tea cultivators.
The entrance, on the south side, is said to have been designed larger than usual in order to allow Hideyoshi to enter with his armor on.
A heavy cream "cloud" ("Wölkje"—a diminutive of 'cloud' in Frisian) is added to the tea "water", and the sugar represents "land".
Career In the early Edo Period, Ogasawara Tadazane (1596-1667), the lord of the Kokura Domain, hired Ryōwa as Sadō (tea master).
Murder of Harry Lam On 30 November 2002, businessman Harry Lam Hon-lit was shot dead at point-blank range while eating breakfast at Luk Yu.
Expansion On September 25, 2022, Tealive opened its 800th branch in Batu Kawan, Penang, with plans to reach 1000 branches by 2024.
The handsome building served as a boarding school, the Elmwood Academy, from 1896 until 1924 under the care of headmaster Thomas Poynter.
Dutch exploration The next recorded reference to tea in India after the 12th century dates to 1598, when a Dutch traveler, Jan Huyghen van Linschoten, noted in a book that the leaves of the Assam tea plant were used by Indians as a vegetable, eaten with garlic and oil, and as a drink.
Traditional medicinal infusions are common in some Mexican immigrant communities in the United States.
The ship's owner's brother, who was on the crew, suggested that the captain take Cutty to the port of Cape Town for repairs, but the ship's carpenter managed to make a new rudder.
In the Basque Country, in particular, it is common to have a mid-morning snack consisting of high-protein food like eggs, bacon, or cured meat on bread, called "hamarretako" (lit.
Sugar is added to the teapot and the tea is poured into small glasses of a certain height and then poured back and forth from the glass to the teapot several times so that foam appears in the glass.
Although the first tea bushes were commercially grown in Azerbaijan as early as 1912, tea-growing gained commercial value in the 1930s under Soviet rule.
It also hosted musical events, with performances from songwriters, jazz musicians and other music artists.
The Chicago district represented by De Priest had a reputation among some whites for political corruption, at a time when Chicago and other big cities were thought by whites to be dominated generally by machine politics built on ethnic immigrants and their descendants.
This resulted in Hong Kong–style milk tea (among other cultural items, like cha chaan teng) becoming part of the Hong Kong identity.
The tea garden was a part of early English commercial pleasure gardens; often parties of couples visited these, the men occupying themselves with lawn bowls and beer or wine, while the ladies went to the tea garden.
The number of train was changed from the 6865 / 6866 to 16865 / 16866 since December 2010 onwards, as a part of train management system over the entire Indian Railways network.
Mooncakes are luxurious gifts in Singapore and are very popular as gifts to clients, friends and family.
The museum contains exhibits on tea pioneers, including James Taylor and Thomas Lipton, as well as much vintage tea-processing paraphernalia.
Regional variations Australia and New Zealand Australia and New Zealand have "morning tea" that occurs at approximately 10:30 a.m.
In Hannah Glasse's 1747 The Art of Cookery, "jumballs" are made from sugar, flour, eggs, butter, and almonds with rosewater.
The chain was founded in 1978 by the Syrian entrepreneur Khalil Nasraui, as a small shop next to the São João and Ipiranga avenue, in the city of São Paulo.
In popular culture Romanian conductor Sergiu Celibidache's focus was on creating, during each concert, the optimal conditions for what he called a "transcendent experience".
The trades used by the artisans were passed from generation to generation within families, such as the use of nature, and repetition of patterns, descendant from traditional Persian design.
Rembertus Dodonaeus wrote in his Cruydt-boeck (Herb book) from 1608 about the healing properties of eyercoekskens.
Cheese tea, also known as naigai cha, is a beverage consisting of fruity, layered iced teas topped with a pillow of salted, whipped cream cheese.
Snowskin mooncakes in Singapore feature flavors ranging from Lychee Martini, Baileys, Matcha Red Bean, durian, and various fruit pastes.
It is also popular in the Gulf Arab region, where it is known as Chai Karak (Arabic: شاي كرك, Urdu: کڑک چائے).
Ginger is then grated into the mixture, followed by the addition of tea masala, typically consisting of crushed ginger, crushed cardamom, lemongrass, cloves, and cinnamon.
Japanese exchange students attended these lectures, and I explained that there were many other elements of classical Eastern thought in Heidegger's philosophy and gave some examples.
Chamei (literally, "tea name") is a Japanese word that may refer to the name given to a particular blend of powdered green tea (matcha) or to the name bestowed on an advanced practitioner of Japanese tea ceremony.
It also introduced four new menus: Signature Brown Sugar Pearl Milk Tea, Roasted Milk Tea with Handmade Pearls, Signature Passion Fruit Green Tea, and Grapefruit Chia Tea Booster.
America Europe Middle East Africa Oceania Asia Collaborations In 2012, AirAsia announced that it would offer Chatime on its flights and claimed that is would be the "world's first and only in-flight bubble tea".
James Richardson recorded a description of a Moroccan tea ceremony in the 1840s, and said that during his travels tea was drunk widely and all day long.
As a result of the chaos of the 8/15 liberation and the 6/25 war, the former style of dabang gradually disappeared and transformed into a commercial café.
The collection was highly regarded as a direct record of Rikyu's teachings and exerted a great influence on the process of the concept building of wabi-cha.
Okakura had been taught at a young age to speak English and was proficient at communicating his thoughts to the Western mind.
In Tibet pieces of tea are broken from tea bricks, and boiled overnight in water, sometimes with salt.
Simit are generally sold by street vendors in Turkey, who either have a simit trolley or carry the simit in a tray on their head.
The power generation plant of the estate dates back to 1920s; a rail engine wheel of the Kundala Valley Railway that shuttled between Munnar and Top Station by 1924.
The historic building The original one-story lava rock and shingle bungalow features an open lānai (veranda), a large room with an open-beam ceiling, fireplace, and tall double-hung windows, and another smaller room with a fireplace.
The term is particularly associated with the Japanese tea ceremony, and is often brushed onto scrolls which are hung in the tea room.
When the chain's Shanghai branch opened in 2017, reports indicated that customers paid others to wait in line for up to three hours on their behalf.
The Elmwood Inn building was the Elmwood Academy from 1891 to 1925, built c.1850, served as a hospital in the Battle of Perryville.
History Gunpowder tea was introduced into North Africa by the British in the 18th and 19th centuries via Morocco and Algeria.
This is what is meant by "one time, one meeting." This passage established the yojijukugo (four-letter idiomatic) form ichi-go ichi-e (一期一会) known today.
Red bean ice: A drink with red bean, evaporated milk, and ice Soft drinks: Coca-Cola, 7 Up, Fanta, and cream soda are some common selections.
The old tsukubai and some tobi ishi remain in the old park while some other items, like the tōrōs, are being kept in the museum storage.
Similar products Certain varieties of Romanian covrigi are similar to simit, the places that sell them even being known as simigerii.
Preparation Traditionally, eierkoeken were made with ammonium bicarbonate (NH4HCO3) as a leavening agent, which releases carbon dioxide without leaving an alkaline taste.
A three-story building recreates the ambience of a 1970s domestic house, with a view of Hanok Village.
References External links Image of a small built-in mizuya Image of built-in mizuya at Doyu-an View of the main mizuya at the Urasenke Konnichian historical tea room complex, Kyoto
In the 1880s, fine hotels in both the United States and England began to offer tea service in tea rooms and tea courts, and by 1910 they had begun to host afternoon tea dances as dance crazes swept both the US and the UK.
In Malaysia, servers who are adept at pouring the tea from further away, theatrically and seemingly in "defi[ance of] physics", become local celebrities, and pulling contests draw thousands of spectators.
The working class of Hong Kong usually have breakfast in these Cantonese restaurants in the early morning.
Other such facilities included the Kaiulani Home for Girls, the Castle Home, and the Catholic Orphanage.
However, modern researchers believe that the book contains information not from Sen no Rikyū and regard it as a forgery.
See also List of tourist attractions in Taiwan Taipei Futai Street Mansion Monopoly Bureau References External links Taipei Story House website (in Chinese) Taipei Story House (in English)
It is made by combining crushed Oreo cookies on top of vanilla or chocolate pudding, and adding gummy candy worms on top.
Today, Fruit Roll-Ups remain manufactured by General Mills and distributed under the Betty Crocker brand in the United States and under the Uncle Tobys brand in Australia.
Chinese hawthorn is the traditional fruit used, though in ancient times other fruits were also used.
A2 Corporation focused on recovering from the deaths of its founders organizationally and financially, relied on its New Zealand licensees to develop the New Zealand market, and turned its focus to developing overseas markets.
Orange was coated in milk chocolate, while the cherry and raspberry were coated with dark chocolate.
More than 90% of babies aged 12 to 18 months old, and nearly all toddlers older than that, are given a protein source at least once a day.
This is done either manually, or by a series of automatic blades, or by a process called grinding (a method of deboning in which the softer parts of the chicken carcass are forced through a mesh, leaving behind the more solid pieces, resulting in a meat paste.
News of a new variety of sundae quickly spread by word-of-mouth and through correspondence and soon progressed far beyond Latrobe.
From Germany, candy canes spread to other parts of Europe, where they were handed out during plays reenacting the Nativity.
Gingerbread moulds often displayed actual happenings, by portraying new rulers and their consorts, for example.
The explanation given is that the Milky Way bar's three ingredients in the US (chocolate, nougat, and caramel) were originally meant to represent the three musketeers.
The first time the "Ants on a Log" snack was mentioned in print was in an article published by the Star Tribune on February 15, 1959, which reads, "Anne Marie is working on snacks.
The wet food was sold in resealable pouches, which contained aluminium, sandwiched between two layers of plastic which eliminated the need for preservatives and meant that the food could be minimally processed.
In 2005, daylight saving time was extended to the first Sunday in November—just long enough to include Halloween.
In addition, he used the white colour of the converted sticks to teach children about the Christian belief in the sinless life of Jesus.
"Taquitos" in the Mexican border cities of Tijuana and Mexicali refer to small tacos sold in stands, rather than the rolled taco dish.
Babies typically move to consuming baby food once nursing or formula is not sufficient for the child's appetite.
Tanghulu, tang hulu, or bingtang hulu is a traditional Chinese snack consisting of several malt sugar coated fruits of Chinese hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida) on a bamboo skewer.
Post announced its new product to the press in 1964 several months before they went to market, calling them "Country Squares".
From the bone meal, it had about 12 ppm fluorine, which works out to about what pediatricians were prescribing about four decades later.
Children would often place these stickers on their lunch boxes to prove they had eaten Fruit by the Foot.
This gave Drane the idea of creating a convenient prepackaged lunch featuring Oscar Mayer's trademark lunch meats.
It was formerly served by the drive-in restaurant Sonic, but it is now made by companies such as Jimmy Dean.
They are sold individually in orange, kiwi-strawberry, grape, blue raspberry, fruit punch, citrus, and lemonade flavors Little Hug Fruit Slushee They are drinks sold in plastic pouches meant to be frozen that were released in 2015 in the flavors strawberry, blue raspberry, and lemonade.
Baby Bottle Pop is a brand of lollipops introduced by manufacturer Topps in 1998 in a baby bottle shape.
Fiesta Nachos: A kit consisting of nacho chips with "queso blanco" dipping cheese and salsa, a small Strawberry Banana Prime bottle, and a snack-sized Feastables Milk Chocolate Bar, based on the "Nachos with Cheese Dip and Salsa" Lunchable.
Red Velvet was initially released as a limited flavor in 2013, but sold so well that it was kept in production until 2017.
On 1 January 2014, The a2 Milk Company exited its joint venture with MWD by acquiring MWD's stake for a "nominal" amount.
Although neither Pablum nor its biscuit predecessor was the first food designed and sold specifically for babies, it was the first baby food to come precooked and thoroughly dried.
In popular culture The children's board game Candy Land includes a "Gumdrop Pass" and "Gumdrop Mountain" amongst its confectionery-themed nomenclature.
The name "Tater Tot" was created in the 1950s, and soon trademarked by a member of the Ore-Ida company's research committee who used a thesaurus to come up with an alliterative name.
On November 16, 2012, Hostess officially announced that it "will be winding down operations and has filed a motion with the U.S.
He ordered cooks to prepare the hawthorn with rock sugar, advising Huang to take five to ten of them before each meal.
In 2014, McDonald's introduced a mascot to Happy Meals in the United States named Happy, who originated in France and some international countries as early as 2009.
The sausage in a bun that is called a hot dog in other countries is known as an "American Hot Dog" and is usually available at the same locations.
Old-fashioned versions of the cake are basically a round braided brioche without filling but these days bakeries try to outdo one another with creative fillings.
See also Fruit by the Foot – Fruit-based snack made by General Mills Fruit Roll-Ups – American fruit snacks that originated in the 1980s References External links Official website
Tropical Variety Pack Sold in packages containing orange, fruit punch, lemonade, and tropical punch flavored drinks.
Targeted at children, they were acorn-shaped with a soft "licorice-like" exterior and a liquid inside, including "strawberries and pear puree concentrate", and came in two flavors: "Strawberry Splash" and "Gushin' Grape".
Food franchises Potato Corner and Papa John's also offer tater tots in select locations, though in the latter case these are branded as "Potato Tots".
For Chinese New Year, chocolate coins are sometimes now given in place of traditional Hongbao or "lucky money".
In recent years, it has become increasingly popular to decorate caramel apples for holidays like Halloween.
The bars cost five cents when they were introduced, and they were marketed as one of the largest chocolate bars available.
Baker's innovations solved these problems and made it possible to form chicken nuggets in any shape by first coating the meat in vinegar, salt, grains, and milk powder to make it hold together and then using an egg- and grain-based batter that could be fried as well as frozen.
Internationally Outside of the U.S., Go-Gurt is sold as "Yoplait Tubes" in Canada, as "Frubes" in the United Kingdom (previously as a sub-brand of Petit Filous), and was also sold in Japan as "グルト" ("Guruto").
Discontinued products Dizzy Grizzlies were a variant of Teddy Grahams, and were so called because they would "become dizzy" due to the snacker looking at each side again and again, as the backside is covered with chocolate and sprinkles.
The FTC is responsible for the regulation of advertising that they deem as being unfair or deceptive to the viewer.
20,000 children signed up online in 17 days, and many came back again and again to play branded games.
Until the late 1970's the Borden corporation also produced a brand of animal crackers, which came in a red box featuring the Elsie the Cow logo.
The gâteau des rois (referred to as royaume, brioche des rois, or coque des rois) is mainly popular in the Occitan-speaking regions of the south of France.
Classically, the preferred apples for use in caramel apples are tart-tasting apples with a crisp texture such as Granny Smith.
In the mid-1920s, records of Girl Scouts preparing "Some Mores" using the modern recipe appear, with the contraction s'more arising by the 1930s.
in 1964, fans of the Beatles in the US pelted the band with jelly beans (emulating fans in the UK who threw the British candy Jelly Babies at George Harrison, who reportedly liked eating them).
Ovaltine, also known by its original name Ovomaltine, is a brand of milk flavouring product made with malt extract, sugar (except in Switzerland), and whey.
Fudgsicle, originally sold as Fudgicle, is a flat, frozen dessert that comes on a stick and is chocolate-flavored with a texture somewhat similar to ice cream.
A plan offered in November 2009 would allow shareholders of Bristol-Myers to exchange one dollar of stock in that company for $1.11 worth of shares in Mead Johnson for the 133.5 million shares in the firm, which would value the company at $7.7 billion based on the stock's then current closing price.
"Advergaming" is a relatively new term in which computer games are built completely around a product with the ultimate goal of maintaining the child's attention to that specific product for longer than it would be held with a traditional commercial.
In 2022, the company released an advertisement more directly targeted at parents in light of new regulations, starring a character named "Juicio".
It is typically made by skewering hawthorn fruits and coating them in heated sugar syrup, which hardens in the cold.
It does not contain common allergens such as chicken eggs, lactose or nuts of any kind, while it does contain wheat and corn, which can be allergenic for some.
After this book was published, German bakers began baking ornamented fairy-tale houses of lebkuchen (gingerbread).
Kaufman told the Minneapolis–Saint Paul magazine City Pages that the original conception was for the yogurt to be firm, so the tube would stand straight up—like an ice pop—but when that didn't work out, they shifted toward a creamy yogurt.
Pre-made frozen corn dogs can also be heated in a microwave oven, but the cornbread coating will lack crisp texture.
Tip Top director Ben Schurr said that the previous version of the flavour had 5–6 gumdrops per scoop, and that the new version has 9–10 gumdrops per scoop.
Advertisers spend approximately $1 billion on television marketing that directly targets children and another $5 billion on other promotions.
In their first year, they earned $100,000,000 and after five years were earning $300,000,000 annually.
In December 2017 the company announced that in the summer of 2018 Geoffrey Babidge, who had been nearing retirement age, would step down and Jayne Hrdlicka would take over as CEO; at that time she was CEO of a subsidiary of Qantas.
External links Products Page on Hostess' website Products Page on Crumbs Carnival Treats website The T.W.I.N.K.I.E.S.
History Twinkies were invented on April 6, 1930, by Canadian-born baker James "Jimmy" Alexander Dewar for the Continental Baking Company in Schiller Park, Illinois.
This candy is formed by allowing a supersaturated solution of sugar and water to crystallize onto a surface suitable for crystal nucleation, such as a string, stick, or plain granulated sugar.
A2 Australia established new contracts with the dairy farmers who had A1 protein-free herds, promising better payment terms—a week in advance instead of once per month, after shipment.
Two problems the meat industry was facing at the time were being able to clump ground meat without a skin and producing a batter coating that could be both deep-fried and frozen without becoming detached.
Their "Mellow crème Pumpkin" was made to look like an autumnal fruit; each pumpkin contained 25 calories and 5 grams sugar.
The company's shares were delisted from the Amsterdam Stock Exchange at the end of 2007 as Danone gained full control.
In the United Kingdom, chocolate coins mimic the design of real money; they are traditionally bought around Christmas and are used to decorate the Christmas tree and to fill children's stockings.
The original mascot was Sydney, a caricature of modern Australian culture, who wore a hat, vest, and tie and spoke with an Australian accent, and was voiced by John Cameron Mitchell.
In October 2002, the food and drinks division of Novartis, the maker of Ovaltine, was bought by Associated British Foods.
However, the granules of the tea contained 94 to 96% sugar, which means that a fruit tea mixed according to specifications contained around two grams of sugar per 100 milliliters.
The a2 Milk Company launched an infant formula in New Zealand and Australia in September 2013 and an A1 protein-free thickened cream was launched in January 2014 under the a2 and a2 MILK brands.
History The origin of the cake tradition was popularly believed to be related to the Roman Saturnalia.
Capri Sun GmbH (renamed from SiSi-Werke in 2018) is organized and headquartered in Germany and is a subsidiary of Swiss companies Capri Sun AG and Capri Sun Group Holding AG and of German company Wild.
See also List of apple dishes Lollipop Tanghulu Caramel apple References External links Media related to Candy apples at Wikimedia Commons
According to Kellogg's, the rice used in the US version of the cereal is grown in the states of Louisiana and Arkansas.
It also used to link to the BuzzFeed article in the bio, but this was later changed to their official website.
Further development toward plastic packaging continued in 2003 after the 2001 change was considered a financial success.
In 2024, Boston hospital Shriner’s Children issued a press release warning about the possibility of severe scald burns as a result of following online recipes to make Tanghulu.
In 2007, French conglomerate Danone acquired Royal Numico for €12.3 billion, after the Numico board accepted the offer.
There have been caramel apple and green apple, s'mores and pumpkin spice, carrot corn (green and orange, with a carrot cake flavor), and birthday cake candy corn flavors.
The linear viscoelastic (LVE) property can be probed on pre-shaped gum cuds through a small isothermal strain deformation (i.e., below yield strain) under small amplitude oscillatory shear (SAOS).
The name "Tater Tot" is a registered trademark of Ore-Ida—which has been a subsidiary of Heinz (now part of Kraft Heinz) since 1965—but has become so widely associated with the dish that it is often used as a generic term.
Their use of the spices nutmeg and mace give the basic animal cracker a somewhat different taste from the Nabisco crackers.
The firm's first major infant formula was developed in 1910, and Dextri-Maltose, a carbohydrate-based milk modifier was introduced in 1911, making it the first American product for infants to be clinically approved and recommended by doctors.
Ovaltine also expanded by offering chocolate bars, chocolate Easter eggs, parfait, cookies, and breakfast cereals flavored with the original powder.
Most historians suggest that jelly beans were first associated with celebrations of Easter in the United States sometime during the 1930s due to their egg-like shape.
The pits and seeds of the hawthorn are emptied and are commonly filled with sweet red bean paste before being skewered and dipped.
Children do not begin to be able to understand advertising until about 7–8 years of age, and even at this age children's cognitive development is still not able to distinguish misleading advertising from others.
Studies also indicate they differ in nutrition, with plant-based alternatives typically containing less saturated fat, and that replacing meat with plant-based alternatives may lower LDL and total cholesterol.
The company also asserts that their products are low in sodium, fat, and saturated fats, have 0 grams of trans fat, and contain fewer than 400 calories.
In Argentina, sales continue with the comics in Spanish using the name "Yo amo Bazooka" (I love Bazooka).
The brand also has animal mascots, originally starting with a monkey, but later also including an alligator, a zebra, a jaguar, an elephant and a bear.
Nutritional information A standard-size 3 Musketeers bar (60 g) has 257 kilocalories (1,080 kilojoules) of food energy, 7 grams of total fat, and 40 grams of sugar, while the mini-size bar (serving size 41 g) has 179 kilocalories (750 kilojoules), 5 grams of total fat, and 27 grams of sugar.
BYU receives 55% of the royalties, which will go toward BYU's mentoring program and research, while Ogden receives the rest.
However, there is a scene with two children, a boy and a girl, where the little boy is supposedly proposing to the little girl with the Ring Pop.
Bristol-Myers announced in February 2009 that it was going to spin off Mead Johnson to focus on its primary pharmaceutics business, with an initial public offering estimated to bring in $562.5 million and would leave Bristol-Myers with 90% ownership of the firm.
McCormack's brother-in-law, Gregory Harding Keller, was a seminary student in Rome who spent his summers working in the candy factory back home.
Nutrition experts recommend, that children should not be given any sweetened beverages, but drink water instead.
More elaborate versions of s'mores came about in the 1990s, and today, s'mores are popular in the United States and Canada, where they are regarded as nostalgic.
They are created by dipping or rolling apples-on-a-stick in hot caramel, sometimes then rolling them in nuts or other small savories or confections, and allowing them to cool.
The brand's current marketing and product packaging incorporate this feature of the product: "The snack that smiles back!
In 2009, the company expanded to Sweden, Norway, and the United States and by 2014 was the UK's best-selling baby food company.
At the time, breast-feeding had declined in the middle and upper classes, with the effect that the diets of babies were often deficient in essential elements.
Many gingerbread people have a face, though whether the features are indentations within the face itself or other candies stuck on with icing or chocolate varies from recipe to recipe.
The company gave the development of the product to Bob Bernstein, who then came up with the idea for the Happy Meal.
The three characters are seen in Kellogg's 1933 national advertising and the three have since appeared together in many forms of advertising, including radio, movie shorts, and comic strips.
In the United States, the National Gingerbread House Competition began in 1992 at the Grove Park Inn in Asheville, North Carolina.
Fruit Roll-Ups have featured variants on the original plain sheets such as punch out shapes on the rolls and temporary tattoos for tongues and formerly on skin.
He left his job as managing director at Nickelodeon and launched the business with personal savings.
Regional variations and analogues In Scotland, macaroni and cheese can often be found in pies, known as a macaroni pie.
The wrapped coins are warmed and struck on both sides with coin-like dies, simultaneously embossing a design onto both the foil and the chocolate underneath.
While Jelly Belly still makes candy corn, the largest manufacturer of candy corn is Brach's Confections owned by the Ferrara Candy Company.
By the late 1990s, competitors of Brach's realized that the market for the special Halloween candy pumpkin was expanding.
Brazilian fast-food chain Bob's offered since 1959, milkshakes and sundaes made with Ovaltine where it goes by the name of "Ovomaltine," which became a flagship product of the fast-food chain in Brazil.
An updated version of the elf-like Snap Crackle and Pop appeared for the first time on television in 1960; previously it was advertised by Woody Woodpecker.
However, in 1885, the brothers were persuaded to join the temperance movement, and hence poured their entire stock into the gutters of Guildford High Street.
In some recipes for baked goods, apple sauce can be used as a substitute for fat or eggs to make them low-fat or vegan.
The factory is shown to have survived completely intact, allowing the Griffins to use it as a food source and a means to rebuild society.
The Rubin family eventually achieved control of Tootsie Roll and agreed that Bernard Rubin would run the company as president.
"Adorable Alert: Cow & Gate Pushes The Cute Envelope in New Spot – A bunch of cute kids messing around in a recording studio turns into an impromptu performance of an 80's classic".
United Kingdom The Twelfth cake, Twelfth-night cake, or Twelfth-tide cake was once popular in the United Kingdom on Twelfth Night.
In 2025, Consumer Reports assessed that Lunchly kits were not generally healthier than those of competitor Lunchables, and contained concerning levels of lead and phthalates.
Currie believes that the reason for the success of Goody Goody Gum Drops is its appeal to children, saying that ice cream can "arguably be a little bit bland", and that it is not uncommon for families to have an "adult" flavour and one that caters more for children.
The game was similar to Club Penguin, it included character customization, socialization, decorating your home area, and minigames.
Products Kidfresh meals are promoted as being made with natural ingredients and are free from artificial colors, flavors, and preservatives.
On July 8, 1986, President Ronald Reagan signed the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1986 into law; it contained a daylight saving rider which continued daylight saving time until the early morning of last Sunday in October; this did not include Halloween night.
The product was developed at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto to combat infant malnutrition.
For example, the strawberry flavor contains no strawberries, and the only ingredient derived from fruit is concentrated pear juice.
In Chile, the Happy Meal, along with kids' meals at other fast food chains, no longer includes free toys, in response to a 2012 law banning such toys in a move to prevent obesity.
Each 3 Musketeers package contained three flavors, chocolate, strawberry and vanilla, hence the name, which was derived from the 1844 novel The Three Musketeers by Alexandre Dumas.
Apple sauce (in American English usually the closed compound applesauce) is a purée (not necessarily served as a true sauce) made of apples.
Variations While cheddar cheese is most commonly used for macaroni and cheese, other cheeses may also be used—usually sharp in flavour—and two or more cheeses can be combined.
When milk is added to the cereal the rice tends to collapse, creating the characteristic "snap, crackle and pop" sounds.
In 1862 he transferred premises to 7, Exeter Street and in 1912 Edwin Farley sold the business, including the secret formula for Farley's rusks to Mr William Bolitho Trahair, prior to emigrating to Canada.
In 2011, Ovaltine was banned in Denmark under legislation forbidding the sale of food products with added vitamins unless claims about their effectiveness are proven.
Johannes introduced Backhaus to his brother, Martinus van der Hagen, who owned a factory in The Netherlands producing margarine and dairy products.
A gingerbread relief of the patron saint was frequently given as a gift on a person's name day, the day of the saint associated with his or her given name.
In 1998, the bar's advertisements featured three men dressed as the legendary Three Musketeers to market the "45% less fat" campaign.
In April 2007 A2 Corporation announced a deal in which the joint venture would license rights to the Original Foods Company, whose branding the A1 protein-free product would carry, and in which the product would be sold in several midwestern states through the Hy-Vee supermarket chain.
The most common variety is light-colored and slightly sweet, but darker chocolate-flavored and colorful frosted varieties are also sold.
The meal, which included a standard Big Mac or Chicken McNuggets combo meal, came with a collectible toy of the brand's mascot Cactus Buddy or four-eyed variants of McDonaldland characters Grimace, Birdie or the Hamburglar.
In the late 19th and early 20th century, chocolate pudding was thought of as an appropriate food for invalids or children as well as a dessert.
ISI acquired Twinlab in September 2003, followed by another string of acquisitions in the dietary supplement market.
Reception A 1991 Sun-Sentinel review said that the insides oozed rather than gushed, and found the confectionery surprisingly pleasant.
Left with no livelihood, they converted their now empty shop into a dairy, trading under the name of the West Surrey Dairy.
However, other shapes, especially seasonal themes (Christmas, Halloween, Easter, etc.), and characters are also common.
Chicago confectioners, the Bunte Brothers, filed one of the earliest patents for candy cane making machines in the early 1920s.
Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches are seen in a poor light by proponents of gourmet cuisine, who have historically used the sandwich as an example of low-quality food.
Due to rising costs and wartime restrictions on sugar, the vanilla and strawberry pieces were phased out leaving only the popular chocolate piece.
Also in 1946, Dave Barham opened the first location of Hot Dog on a Stick at Muscle Beach in Santa Monica, California.
In 1895, Johnson developed a side business called The American Ferment Company to create a digestive aid.
Products Plum Baby had 38 products ranges including Stage 1 – 3 baby and toddler food, snack ranges and others.
Marketing and sales channels Yashili sell its products via a comprehensive national sales and distribution network, which covers all regions within mainland China.
In the episode "Angela's New Best Friend" on the TV series Who's the Boss (season 2 episode 22), Angela gets upset when she can't find her Butter Brickle ice cream and Tony tells her "Some other person ate it." when in fact it was just in another spot in the freezer.
In February 2017, British consumer goods company Reckitt (then known as Reckitt Benckiser) bid $16.7 billion for the company.
Manufacture Until the sale by Nestlé, Juicy Juice was manufactured in Ocean Spray production facilities, as a result of a 2002 joint agreement between Nestlé and Ocean Spray.
In therapeutic diets The BRAT diet and the CRAM diet, which are given to children with diarrhea and stomach problems, include apple sauce.
A common misconception regarding the Three Musketeers bar and Milky Way bar is that on release the two candies had their respective labels swapped in manufacturing.
The production method, called "corn starch modeling", likewise remains the same, though tasks initially performed by hand were soon taken over by machines made for that purpose.
They are also sometimes sold at carnivals and fairs Israel – almost solely sold in cities' squares on Yom Ha'atzmaut eve (Israel Independence Day) as part of the street celebrations.
A 2019 review in The BMJ, which criticized the health effects of marketing sugary drinks to children, found that the marketing techniques introduced by Philip Morris were still in use, even after Kraft became independent of it in 2007.
Children's song about making peanut butter and jelly were written, and "It's Peanut Butter Jelly Time" by Buckwheat Boyz became a popular internet meme in the early 2000s.
Composition Strawberry-flavored Fruit Gushers are composed of sugar, dried corn syrup, corn syrup, modified corn starch, fructose, pear concentrate, and grape juice concentrate.
A 2017 New York Times article found that Nestlé had been financing the society and vetting the articles before publication, leading to questions of scientific impartiality.
The designs include McDonald's, Coca-Cola, Hello Kitty & Peanuts, Beanie Babies, Barbie & Hot Wheels, and Shrek, Jurassic Park & Minions.
See also Starch mogul Dragée Gummy bears Skittles (candy) Turkish delight Nerds (candy) Jelly babies Jujube (confectionery) Gumdrop Mint (candy) Jelly (preserves) Jelly (dessert) Jelly bean rule References External links Media related to Jelly beans at Wikimedia Commons
Fruit by the Foot is a fruit snack made by General Mills and distributed under the Betty Crocker brand.
During the 1920s, the business transferred to Woolster Street and gave up its agencies to concentrate on rusk production.
In addition, the brand changed its mascots, ran an ad campaign aimed directly at children, which included games where children could sign up and win prizes.
United States One theory is that James Hemings brought the recipe to the United States after discovering it in France, prompted by Thomas Jefferson who was interested in extruded pasta.
Advertising and promotion Commercial jingle Commercials for the snack featured a song with the slogan you can lick it, shake it, and dunk it.
After the announcement, people across the country were outraged and many people wrote about their disappointment on social media.
Mead Johnson & Company, LLC is an American company that is a manufacturer of infant formula, both domestically and globally, with its best-known product Enfamil.
The original recipe used strawberries, raspberries and crushed pineapple with marshmallow syrup, chopped nuts, and pitted black cherries.
The modern definition of a taquito as a rolled-tortilla dish was given in 1929 in a book of stories of Mexican people in the United States aimed at a youth audience, where the dish was noted as a particularly popular offering of railroad station vendors.
In December 2019, Dunkaroos were briefly brought back in Australia by Nestlé with a chocolate-hazelnut flavour and kangaroo-shaped biscuits.
In May 2020, Dunkaroos began arriving at 7-Eleven stores in the United States until being brought to other stores, including Walmart, Target, and Kroger, a few months afterwards.
Original advertising was done through Nickelodeon whom he offered a share of revenue in exchange for free advertising.
Conversely, legislators in Arizona prohibited such restrictions, and Florida state senators proposed the same.
Several bakeries in Singapore sold dirt cakes served in flowerpots after the dessert appeared on the Taiwanese show A Hint of You.
The product is known for being mainly focused on children and consists of two (usually chocolate) biscuits with a sweet crème filling, with the difference that each cookie is modeled in the shape of a face with two holes for the eyes and one for the mouth.
Similar international flavors A similar flavor has been sold in both Italy and Malta under the name puffo, which is Italian for 'Smurf', as well as in Germany under the names Schlumpf and Engelblau, which translate to 'Smurf' and 'angel blue', respectively.
Numerous variations are made by swapping elements, such as graham crackers for ginger snap, saltines or potato chips, marshmallow for Peeps, and chocolate for Reese's Peanut Butter Cups.
In the summer of 2021, the Limited flavor "Mister-E" was discontinued shortly after its two-month marketing surge.
Advertising In the 1970s, Kellogg's revitalized Pop-Tarts advertising with a talking toaster named Milton.
Early versions of the dish using both egg and flour can be found in the 1918 edition of Fannie Farmer's Boston Cooking School Cook Book and in the 1903 edition of Mary Harris Frazer's Kentucky Receipt Book.
To ensure a random distribution of the pieces, the youngest person is to place themselves under the table and name the recipient of each piece as they are cut.
Marketing The Dunkaroos mascot is a cartoon kangaroo, explaining the product's name which is a portmanteau of dunk and kangaroos.
Boston Market, Michelina's, Kraft Foods, Cracker Barrel, and Stouffer's are some of the more recognizable brands of prepared and frozen macaroni and cheese available in the United States.
Away from a campfire, s'mores are sometimes prepared under a broiler, microwave, grill, or at the table in restaurants furnished with hibachi grills.
Nutricia is a Danone brand that specialises in therapeutic food and infant formula, including medical nutrition for babies with specific needs.
For a long time the management consisted of the three brothers Claus Hipp, Georg Johannes Hipp and Paulus Hipp.
The two most popular colors for growlers are amber (a brownish hue) or clear (often called "flint").
A widget is a device placed in a container of beer to manage the characteristics of the beer's head.
They are first mentioned in 1513 and from 1531 to 1572 were the most important of three items that apprentices were required to submit to the guild in order to move up from journeyman to master status.
The neck of the Asante Jug bears six roundels, three on either side, each with a falcon spreading its wings, with one to each side of the spout and two either side of the handle.
Bush White House state china has a gold rim with a green basket-weave pattern and a historically-inspired gold eagle.
Any beer which has dropped bright or fined will have a layer of yeast sediment at the bottom of its storage vessel.
Sausages, offal, and raw watery fruits (oranges, plums, peaches, apricots, and grapes) were apparently considered uniquely appropriate for starting the meal, as those foods appear only in the entree de table.
It is applicable to most types of table service: without waitstaff, the host or hosts may find it informative in judging when to clear away a course or the meal.
There seems no doubt that this Spanish word is the source of the English salver; a parallel is found in the origin of the term credenza, which comes from Italian.
a mug holds more liquid than the cup, as the latter is used in a close proximity of a teapot anyhow.
Plain and ornate platters suitable for more formal settings or occasions are made of, or plated with, silver, and antique examples are considered quite valuable.
During the Shang and Zhou dynasties of Bronze Age China, it became one of a number of designs of Chinese ritual bronzes.
Sometimes the basket contains other side dishes as well, such as a container of coleslaw or a pickle.
The order of attestations in charters was an indication of status, and dish-bearers and butlers usually attested charters above ordinary thegns.
The President had also commissioned a gold plaque as a token of goodwill for the last ruling Sultan of Zanzibar, Sayyid Jamshid bin Abdullah Al Said.
Presumably many such sets existed, but recycling the precious metal elements was too tempting at some point, leaving only the porcelain cups.
Health concerns Anchovies can concentrate domoic acid, which causes amnesic shellfish poisoning in humans, sea mammals, and birds.
By the later part of the decade, though, shakers were quickly giving way to modern electric appliances that either added a mixing unit to the shaker's lid or did away with the shaker entirely, with the introduction of the electric blender.
A spoon (UK: , US: SPOON) is a utensil consisting of a shallow bowl (also known as a head), oval or round, at the end of a handle.
The Jian chawan, a Chinese tea bowl known as Tenmoku chawan in Japan, was the preferred tea bowl for the Japanese tea ceremony until the 16th century.
Wine service could include a separate wine for each course, or champagne may be the only wine after the sherry served with the soup.
In others, such as Japanese and Chinese, where bowls of food are more often raised to the mouth, little modification from the basic pair of chopsticks and a spoon has taken place.
Crudités from France are a blend of salads of raw vegetables and the serving has a minimum of three vegetables of striking colors.
Mai'a Iced Coffee Straws are designed to flavour a 250mL/ 8.5oz glass of cold milk, and are pitched to young adults as a healthier alternative to other iced coffee drinks.
It is also depicted in the watermark used as a security feature on several Khuzestanian monetary banknotes.
Fried Padrón peppers are typically served hot with a dusting of coarse salt, sometimes accompanied by chunks of bread, as tapas.
This method worked fine if the beer was served cold; when served warm the can would overflow when opened.
The Tiffany Yellow Diamond (128.54 carats (25.708 g)) is usually on display in the New York City flagship store.
"The Influence of Teacup Shape on the Cognitive Perception of Tea, and the Sustainability Value of the Aesthetic and Practical Design of a Teacup".
To make the puzzle more interesting, it was common to provide a number of additional holes along the tube, which must be closed off before the contents could be sucked.
Gravity then creates a siphon through the central column, causing the entire content of the cup to be emptied through the hole at the bottom of the stem.
See also The Classic of Tea Pictorial of Tea Ware bamboo stove References Tea Terms 2010 中英文茶術語 Best Kitchen Product Reviews
A tasse à café (French pronunciation: [tɑs‿a kafe], coffee cup) is a cup, generally of white porcelain and of around 120 ml (4 fl oz), in which coffee is served.
Another type of butter dish, a French butter dish, keeps butter fresh by using water to keep the butter away from the air, thereby keeping it fresh.
Fo Niemi, the Cagadocs' lawyer and the executive director for the Center for Research-Action on Race Relations (CRARR), had to actively discourage people from the Filipino community from protesting in front of the school board.
Coconuts were also referred to as the "Indian nut" or "nut of the sea", which Kathleen Kennedy prefers to take literally.
Beyaynetu (Amharic: በያይነቱ, romanized: bäyaynätu) is an Ethiopian/Eritrean dish, often enjoyed as a hearty meal.
They were historically attributed to the Phoenicians, but are today considered to have been made by a broader group of Levantine peoples.
The disintegration of highbrow and lowbrow foods has led to increased accessibility of various foods.
Unfamiliarity with finger bowls has led to many common faux pas, including drinking the water, eating the flower, or failing to move the doily with the bowl when shifting it off of the dessert plate.
A magic mug, also known as a heat changing mug, transforming mug, or disappearing mug is a mug that changes color when it is filled with a hot liquid.
Furthermore, many local traditions of what constitutes the proper care and display of the items on a Welsh dresser would come to assume an important role in the culture of North Wales in particular.
The metal kovsh began to appear around the 14th century, although it also continued to be carved out of wood and was frequently brightly painted in peasant motifs.
The first step in bottling beer is depalletising, where the empty bottles are removed from the original pallet packaging delivered from the manufacturer, so that individual bottles may be handled.
According to lore, Thomas Jefferson invented the device, which was known as a "dumbwaiter", for his daughter Susan.
"I broke the ttukbaegi and spilled the soup" (뚝배기 깨고 국 쏟았다) is an analogy to mean that one mistake will result in a loss many times.
are, in no particular order, International Paper, LBP Manufacturing, Java Jacket, and Labansat & Schulz Manufacturing.
Merry "helped promote the organization of the Indiana Glass Company" in Dunkirk in 1904, and he was elected president of the company.
For the period of 1870 to 1885, Bellaire's nickname was "Glass City" because of its numerous glass factories and the large amount of capital invested in them.
Such steins may be made out of stoneware, pewter, porcelain or even silver, wood or crystal glass; they may have open tops or hinged pewter lids with a thumb-lever.
'Grace' cups were passed round when a traditional grace (a prayer of thanksgiving) was said to give thanks for the food eaten.
A penny lick was a small glass for serving ice cream, used in London, England, and elsewhere in the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century.
Since the 19th century, dinner has generally been served in the evening, but other times ranging from late morning to late afternoon have been historically common.
Other containers for the host include the paten (a small plate) or a basin (for loaves of bread rather than wafers) used at the time of consecration and distribution at the main service of Holy Eucharist.
The clerk, also known as warden of the hanaper, was paid fees and other moneys for the sealing of charters, patents, writs, etc., and from which issued certain writs under the great seal.
The wooden parts that make up a barrel are called staves, the top and bottom are both called heads or headers, and the rings that hold the staves together are called hoops.
Ingredients Onions, ginger, salt, turmeric, panch puran (optional), rice flour, ground rice, chopped coriander (optional) and water.
The field ration eating device (FRED) is an Australian eating utensil and multi-tool that serves as a combination of a can opener, bottle opener, and spoon.
Windermere kettles are rapid boilers and can heat enough water to make a pot of tea in only a few seconds.
However, earthenware exhibited significant technical weaknesses for this application: the body was easily chipped, the glaze would craze over time and the underlying porous ceramic would absorb moisture and odours.
A very early example of a bridge-spouted vessel in Minoan pottery has been recovered at the ancient palace of Phaistos on Minoan Crete, dating to the Bronze Age.
Additionally, metal Sierra cups can become very hot very easily, which can burn the user when attempting to eat from it; burning one's lips on a Sierra cup while attempting to eat or drink was considered "standard practice" when they were in frequent use.
Formal functions in Europe can sometimes have very elaborate centrepieces, which can span the entire length of the table.
The first US patent for a coffee percolator was issued to James Nason of Franklin, Massachusetts, in 1865, U.S.
After Buck's death in 2010, a New York Times writer described the motto on the cup as having "welcome intimations of tenderness, succor, and humility".
Interpretation One of the women Surrealists, Oppenheim in this work combines the domesticity of the tea set (part of the traditionally feminine decorative arts) with the eroticism and animality of the fur covering.
Whilst this is happening, the corker vacuums the air out of the bottle to form a negative pressure headspace.
A spoon and chopstick rest is a piece of tableware on which a spoon and chopsticks can be placed without their used ends touching the table.
Diners could either dip food into their individual salt cellars or use a small salt spoon to sprinkle the seasoning over their food.
The tea- and coffeepots are small (one pint in a service for two, so called tête-à-tête, half a pint in a solitaire service for one), the cups and saucers are frequently also smaller than the ones in the regular sets.
At the center of the table is the secondary main course, such as galbi or bulgogi, and a shared pot of jjigae.
In the 1970s, the dish became so ubiquitous in UK venues offering evening entertainment that the locations became known to musicians and entertainers as the "chicken-in-a-basket circuit".
The term pony dates to the 19th century, and is due to the diminutive size, being used earlier for a pony glass, and similarly for a pony keg.
Multiple dishes were served for each stage, for example, multiple potages, multiple entrées, multiple roasts, and so on.
Another very rare group of specimens, attributed to the potter Andokides and his workshop, have figural decoration on the flat base of the foot.
The modern B&B plate is simply a smaller plate and has other uses, thus other names: side plate, quarter plate, cheese plate.
A jamonera (Spanish pronunciation: [xamoˈneɾa]), also known as a portajamones or jamonero, is a form of clamp fixed to a wooden stand, specifically designed to hold a leg of jamón serrano (Spanish cured ham) or jamón ibérico whilst it is sliced.
It was first described in a recipe from 1691 by the chef of the French king Louis XIV, using ingredients such as truffles, sweetbreads, and cream cheese.
Whirlpool At the end of the boil, solid particles in the hopped wort are separated out, usually in a vessel called a "whirlpool" or "settling tank".
History Unlike the more formal chanhap (찬합) enjoyed by the nobility, Joseon era peasants and soldiers would carry lunch in a simple woven bamboo or wood tumak (투막) box when expected to be outside the home during meal time.
Porsgrund Porcelain Factory (Porsgrunds Porselænsfabrik, abbreviated PP) is a porcelain flatware company located at Porsgrunn in Telemark county, Norway.
In private settings, this kind of disposable products has proven very popular with consumers who prefer easy and quick cleanup after parties, etc.
To make sungnyung, the unscorched part of rice is scooped and transferred into another serving bowl right after being served, and hot water or tea (usually mild-grain teas such as barley tea or corn tea) is poured into the dolsot while it is still blistering hot.
Although a Russian jackboot сапог (sapog) could be used for this purpose, bellows were manufactured specifically for use on samovars.
At a less formal dinner, not served from the kitchen, the dessert fork and spoon can be set above the plate, fork pointing right, spoon pointing left.
Preserving food in this manner allows people to keep summer vegetables throughout the winter months when gardens and crops are not producing.
The museum specialises in the collection, study and display of teaware, including many samples of Yixing teapots, from Jiangsu Province, China, as well as the world's oldest known extant teapot.
This form was developed based on older versions of the jia that which had hollow conical legs that opened to the lower bowl section of the vessel.
The cabaret services originated in France, where the tea drinking was not ritualized, and thus small-scale arrangements for one or two were appropriate.
Crocks are made from stoneware, which is a nonporous ceramic that is water-tight, even without glaze.
A bridge-spouted vessel is a particular design of ewer (jug or pitcher) originating in antiquity; there is typically a connecting element between the spout and filling aperture, and the spout is a completely independent aperture from the usually smaller central fill opening.
The thickness of the glass made the contents appear greater than they were, often disappointing the customer, and the glasses commonly broke or were stolen.
By 2007, it was mentioned in passing in a New York Times television review as "one of those endangered artifacts".
The modern dallah is a more typically practical vessel, and even automatic dallahs and Thermos dallahs are available to the modern coffee drinker.
Therefore, with the exception of the quadruple silverplate moustache cups made in the U.S., it is nowadays extremely difficult to find an authentic Victorian moustache cup bearing an American pottery mark.
In this case, a self-contained portable tap is required that allows beer to be served straight from the keg.
History The teacup and saucer originated in China at the time of the near-simultaneous introduction of tea and porcelain.
If a butter spreader is used, it is laid on top of the B&B plate, either vertically, horizontally, or diagonally.
A special dish for resting the teaspoons, a "spoon boat", was a part of the tea set in the 18th century.
Eating one meal away from home each week translates to 2 extra pounds each year or a daily increase of 134 calories and a decrease in diet quality by 2 points on the Healthy Eating Index.
Following a fire, the company’s foundry was moved to Santa Fe in 1976, and remained there until 1994 when it was moved to Espanola, and later moved abroad to Asia.
Thirdly, it has been argued that, unlike regular glasses and cups, in which hot liquids cool evenly, the Armudu ensures proportional cooling at the time of drinking allowing cooling of the tea in the top portion of the glass while keeping the bottom part hot.
A cocktail umbrella or paper parasol is a small umbrella made from paper, paperboard, and a toothpick.
The compulsory high recycled-content of these bottles makes them very dark and the lack of temper makes them chip easily when being opened.
Some similar tea glass holders can occasionally be seen in the West in tea houses and pubs; they are however usually of much simpler design (made of either stainless steel bent wire or even of some plastic material) than those seen in Russia (and in the former USSR).
In 1986, researchers in Florida discovered the 7500-year-old remains of ancient Native Americans and discovered small grooves between many of the molar teeth.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
It was chosen for the “Britain Can Make It” exhibition in London, which ran at the V&A for 14 weeks in the autumn of 1946.
Some ingenious designs were made including expanding or folding types (so as to take up less space).
Bazaars and food stalls in the Indian subcontinent traditionally served hot beverages, such as tea, in kuhlars, which suffused the beverage with an "earthy aroma" that was often considered appealing.
Instead the term cheese board might be used for a dish with largely cheese or some other descriptive title used for a board with a large variety of different cold foodstuffs.
Terminology Originally, the term referred to pies and other sweet delicacies served after a main meal, but now can refer to a light meal before a main meal or a snack, which may also be eaten at a stand-up bar known as zakusochnaya.
He likely intended this as a compliment to Sviatoslav; sources report that Kurya and his wife drank from the skull and prayed for a son as brave as the deceased Rus warlord.
Reception During its November 2015 launch, Pryme Vessyl was carried in Apple Stores across North America and had a launch partnership with Equinox.
It has been acknowledged that the kusztyk shares a visual similarity with the ancient Greek rhyton, however, it is unlikely that these vessels were employed during equivalent ritualistic occasions.
The shape of the canteen is unusual compared to other examples of 13th-century Islamic metalwork and is similar to the shape of ceramic pilgrim flasks, which are characterized by a wide vessel with two rounded handles along the sides of the spout.
The glass might be able to be used for drinks, but when used for food, it is referred to as a verrine, and indeed the dish itself can be named ″a verrine″.
Albanian-style meze platters typically include prosciutto ham, salami, and brined cheese, accompanied with roasted bell peppers (capsicum) or green olives marinated in olive oil with garlic.
These were decorated with brightly coloured enamel and motifs that included musical instruments or military trophies.
Tiara Tiara Exclusives, a multi-level marketing company owned by Lancaster Colony, began on July 1, 1970.
See also Hoosier cabinet Hutch (furniture) Sideboard References External links The Irish Dresser Project
In the early Catholic Church, Holy Communion was not kept in churches for fear of sacrilege or desecration; the religion was still largely illegal and subject to frequent persecutions.
A course may include many different dishes served at the same time, as in Service à la française (lit.
In Korean cuisine, various hot rice dishes such as bibimbap or gulbap (oyster rice) as well as plain white rice can be prepared and served in dolsot.
South Korean girl group Red Velvet released their debut Japanese EP titled #Cookie Jar in 2017, along with its lead single of the same name.
Wine can also be fermented in large wooden tanks, which—when open to the atmosphere—are called "open-tops".
A dallah (Arabic: دَلَّة), also known as bakraj (Arabic: بَكْرَج), is a traditional Arabic coffee pot used for centuries to brew and serve qahwa, a spicy, bitter coffee traditionally served during feasts like Eid al-Fitr and made through a multi-step ritual.
After opening the store in the cosmopolitan area of Chiado, in Lisbon in 1887, with José and his brother Narciso, they develop its activity in the capital of the kingdom benefiting from the proximity of the court.
Vessyl pre-order backer disappointment In October 2015, the company announced that refunds would be issued to those who opted not to wait out production delays of Vessyl.
A third handle was added, but the smith presented the vessel to Tuathal by holding the cup by two handles and pointing the third towards himself.
Some newer formulations use a Thermite-like reaction between a more reactive metal powder such as aluminum or magnesium, with a less reactive metal oxide such as iron oxide or silicon dioxide.
Single-serve coffee containers can both reduce the time needed to brew coffee and simplify the brewing process by eliminating the need to measure out portions, flavorings, and additives from large bulk containers.
Meals served à la française can include from one to five courses, depending on the way the stages of the meal are grouped together.
This measure had the most effect in Japan as many of its disposable chopsticks are imported from China, which account for over 90% of the Japanese market.
A flight may include several beers (say, a pilsner, an IPA and a stout) from one brewery, or the same style but from several breweries, or a combination of both.
The term is a word of Persian origin meaning the tablecloth which is spread on the ground, floor, or table as a sanitary surface for food.
The fish were substitutions or counterparts to the roasts served on meat days, corresponding to their position in the meal but not their cooking method.
In Ethiopia they use a slightly different variation, theirs having a separate spout lower on the pot for pouring out the coffee.
Though designed for use as a cup and originally designed for collecting water from streams, its handle and wide top allows it to also be used as a ladle, bowl, or cookware.
It typically consists of white potatoes that have been cut into two-centimeter-wide (3⁄4-inch) cubes, then fried in oil and served hot with a spicy "brava" sauce.
In this instance, a cup and spoon has grown hair, turning objects from which one should derive relaxation and pleasure into something aggressive, unpleasant and faintly disgusting.
Beakers are often graduated, that is, marked on the side with lines indicating the volume contained.
A designer noted for his innovative take on the toast rack was Christopher Dresser (1834–1904), who studied at the Glasgow Government School of Design and contributed to the development of modern design.
are the official makers of the newly redesigned Summoner's Cup, which was first awarded to DRX after their 3-2 victory over T1.
References External links "Nancy Newhall, Tioga Mine, California" – a photograph of Nancy Newhall with a Sierra Club cup hooked in her belt, by Ansel Adams
At the end of the meal, the trencher could be eaten with sauce, but could also be given as alms to the poor.
About fifty cups or, more often, fragments have survived, and there are only a few in near-complete condition.
However, these were not widely known at the time of Layard's 1849 discoveries in Nimrud, and the specific connection to the Phoenician bowls was only made in 1876 following the discovery of the Bernardini Tomb.
The term salva was also applied to the dish or tray on which the food or drink was presented after the tasting process.
By 1588, reference is documented in England to the "trencher salt"; by the early 18th century, these had mostly supplanted large salts.
The entrée in the "Classical Order" of table service The stages of the meal underwent several significant changes between the mid-16th and mid-17th century.
Sinosphere China When eating rice from a bowl, it is normal to hold the rice bowl up to one's mouth and use chopsticks to push or shovel the rice directly into the mouth.
The fragment shows a pattern based on circles, that is very similar to the glass diatreta, suggesting that the same style may have been used in silver plate, though which came first is unknown.
The art samovars of Borujerd are often displayed in Iranian and Western museums as illustrations of Iranian art and handicraft.
A medieval table in a wealthy household might be covered in a cloth that was used as a common napkin rather than having a decorative purpose.
Large "ceremonial" or feasting cups, sometimes called grace cups or "welcome cups", and drinking horns, including ivory, with metal mounts, were important prestige pieces, typically too large to drink from all evening, so passed around or drunk from once.
History The earliest example in England is the Exeter puzzle jug—an example of medieval pottery in Britain.
By the middle of the 18th century, china cabinets were typically more elaborate; later cabinets had especially elaborate doors and were lighter weight.
History Loving cups found in several Christian denominations that practice the lovefeast, including the Schwarzenau Brethren, Moravians, and Methodists.
The pieces are mostly cast as a single piece, and the solid construction is efficient at retaining heat.
For instance, a 250 mL beaker might be marked with lines to indicate 50, 100, 150, 200, and 250 mL of volume.
As the drip coffee, invented in France in the 18th century, gained popularity, the need for tall cups disappeared, so Sèvres porcelain pioneered shorter cups.
Nevertheless, onggi types share similarities: biodegradability, porosity, resistance to rot, and firmness or "vertebration".
A jue (Chinese: 爵; Wade–Giles: chüeh) is a type of ancient Chinese ritual bronze vessel used to serve warm wine during ancestor-worship ceremonies.
In the United States, the silent service code is a way for a diner to communicate to waitstaff during a meal to indicate whether the diner is finished with their plate.
It has been criticized as being decadent, humiliating, degrading, cruel, antiquated, objectifying, and sexist.
Later, the object was mounted in silver, forming a pedestal where the name of the owner, the year, and the place of the manufacturer was written.
Padrón pepper, also called Herbón pepper, is a landrace variety of pepper (Capsicum annuum) from the municipality of Padrón in northwestern Spain (mainly in the valley of the parish of Herbón).
See also Bridge-spouted vessel Dribble glass Pythagorean cup References External links A puzzle jug Martin Homer's Puzzle Jugs
It has been in operation since 1923 and specializes in the production of high-quality glass accessories or liquid vessels such as jugs, vases, carafes, decanters and chalices as well as stemware and tumblers for serving spirits.
Egg cups can be made from a variety of materials, including bakelite, glass, plastic, porcelain, pottery, various metals, wood, or a combination of two materials, such as ceramic and wood.
The capsules have an outer ring or rim that stays dry during use, allowing for removal and disposal after use without getting the user's hands wet or sticky.
Bread-and-butter plate (B&B plate) is a small, about 6 inches in diameter, plate that holds bread and butter for an individual table setting.
The heyday of the cabinet cup was the second half of the 18th century and the first decades of the 19th century; they worked well in the showy Empire style then in fashion.
The typical "picnic tap" uses a hand pump to push air into the keg; this will cause the beer to spoil faster but is perfectly acceptable if the entire keg will be consumed in a short time.
Variations Spinach dip in a bread bowl originated as a promotional appetizer for supermarkets ahead of the 1985 Super Bowl.
Another British company, Lifeventure, sells titanium and plastic versions using the name "Forkspoon".
Because it is a wet process, the tea draining tray is necessary to keep the process tidy and elegant.
The glass was usually made with a thick glass base and a shallow depression on top in which the ice cream was placed.
Thompson, "our object was to get nothing but the best, for we want our State Set to be as near perfect as possible ...
In the "Classical Order" of service à la française, the main course generally follows the entrée (lit.
With stores in Lisbon and Cascais, the house stands out in the manufacture of custom-made and personalized pieces, namely engagement rings, jewelry, cutlery, tableware, as well as maintenance and restoration.
By this stage a shell was cheaper than a bowl made of silver, which has contributed to a higher survival rate for coconut cups than those in precious metal, as they had a lower recycling value, and were less likely to be melted down.
If there are more courses, additional flatware is brought to the table at the time the course is served.
The jug was found in Manhyia Palace in Kumasi in 1895, but when and how it arrived in West Africa is not known.
Trays range in cost from inexpensive molded pulp trays which are disposable and inexpensive melamine trays used in cafeterias, to mid-priced wooden trays used in a home, to expensive silver trays used in luxury hotels.
It is, however, almost certain that the devices under discussion were wheeled serving trays similar to those introduced by Thomas Jefferson to the United States from France, where they were known as étagères.
The idea behind a thali is to offer different flavours of sweet, salt, bitter, sour, astringent and spicy on one single plate (technically the last two are actually forms of chemesthesis rather than true flavours).
Records dating to the 18th century attest to this as well as other variations such as 밥고리, and 밥동고리.
Methers can be found in a number of private collections and museums, sometimes decorated and once hereditary treasures of famous Celtic families.
Taiwan Railway Bento is a well known bento dish manufactured and distributed by the Taiwan Railway Corporation at major railway stations and in train cars.
On tramways of the horse and early electric age, toastrack cars – usually with roofs and often reversible seats – were common in warm climates or for summer use.
Cooking in earthenware containers has always been common in most cultures, but the idea of casserole cooking as a one-dish meal became popular in the United States in the twentieth century, especially in the 1950s when new forms of lightweight metal and glass cookware appeared on the market.
Here, ʾätkəlt refers to "plants" or "vegetables", and yetsom signifies "fasting", denoting the period when members of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church abstain from consuming meat and dairy products for several weeks.
Kitchen staff The kitchen staff is responsible for preparing the food according to service standards and work procedures.
In the United States and Australia there are formal tablesetting competitions and exhibitions that date back to the 1930s and 1940s.
Some growler caps are equipped with valves to allow replacement of carbon dioxide lost while racking.
In Provence, the dish may be made with vegetables alone, but also with lamb, fish, or egg added to vegetables.
Responsible for the image of Our Lady of Fátima, all Portuguese crown jewels since the 19th century and major works, it is known for luxury jewelry, particularly in gold and diamond.
There are a number of companies that manufacture coffee sleeves; the top four companies by volume of coffee sleeves sold in the U.S.
That same year, their future National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame filly Paseana won the Breeders' Cup Distaff at Gulfstream Park.
In 2014, she was awarded the International Food and Agribusiness Management Association (IFAMA) Lifetime Award.
In 1963, Latham began advocating for the use of breastfeeding instead of infant milk formula, and after a decade of struggle, in 1981 he was able to regulate the marketing of infant formula.
Career Feingold worked as the house officer at the children's clinic of the University of Vienna, Austria from 1928 to 1929.
She entered the Rostov Medical Institute, graduated from it, and was left in the residency of the surgical clinic of the same institute.
The name is taken from the fictional Shangri-La, a reference Roberts explained by stating that Shangri-La is a "very peaceful place.
Dr Elisabet Helsing DrMedSci (3 June 1940 – 26 January 2019) was a Norwegian nutritional physiologist.
He was the chairman of HealthWatch (formerly the Campaign against Health Fraud) from 1991–1993, 1997–1999, 2003–2005.
Born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, she attended the University of Saskatchewan and graduated with a bachelor of science degree in dietetics and nutrition.
Janine Leal Reyes (born 13 November 1976) is a Venezuelan nutritionist, television presenter and model.
He was house physician at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh.
She invented a gluten-free all-purpose flour and consults to the food industry regarding product development and consumer eating habits.
Lahmann stressed the importance of diet, exercise and fresh air, and was an ardent practitioner of physiotherapy and hydrotherapy.
In 2012, she still lived in the house in Arima where she had been born a century earlier, which she had inherited from her parents, and in 2019 was living in a care home in the same area.
He was awarded a KCB in the New Year honours of 1952 and in 1953 was appointed Honorary Physician to the Queen.
Publications Soy Bean Recipes (1942) The Useful Soybean: A Plus Factor in Modern Living (1945) Soybean Cookbook (1968) [with Dorothea Van Gundy Jones] == References ==
She completed her doctorate in 2000 with a thesis titled "The relationship between body fat distribution, insulin sensitivity and postprandial lipids in Europeans and South Asians: a cross-sectional study".
Works (ed.) Art of Swimming, by Matthew Webb, 1875 (ed.) Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery, 1875-6 Common Sense Cooking, 1877 Choice Dishes at Small Cost, 1882 (ed.) Billiards, by W.
Career Poorwo Soedarmo lived in Banten, West Jakarta, during the Japanese occupation in Indonesia and was head of its medical services until 1948.
In the last chapter Brinton demonstrates the absence of pathological ground for the affection often named "gout in the stomach".
On October 15, 1933, she founded a health food store named The House of Better Living at 1207 West Sixth St., Los Angeles, California.
She was born in Bury on 16 March 1891, went to school in Hough Green and then studied medicine at the University of Liverpool where she was a Roger Lyon Jones scholar, won the Holt and Kanthack medals and the university prize for medicine.
(June 29, 1924 – April 27, 2004) was a professor of pathology at University of California, Los Angeles School of Medicine, a leading advocate of calorie restriction for life extension and health improvement, and a crew member of Biosphere 2.
He served as president of the Royal Society of Medicine and the Royal College of Physicians and was created 1st Baronet Hutchison, of Thurle, Parish of Streatley, Berkshire (UK) in 1939.
In 2010 Pollan was interviewed for the film Queen of the Sun: What are the bees telling us?, a feature-length documentary about honey bees and colony collapse disorder.
Early life and education One of three children, Rossi was raised by her single mother, a science teacher, on a farm near Cairns in rural Australia.
Hedayat Award", the highest award in Iran bestowed annually by the Iranian Food Science and Technology Association (chairman: Seyed Mohammad Hosseini) to the most achieved Iranian persons or institutions in the field of nutrition and food science.
In 1885 he was admitted as privatdocent to the medical facility of the University of Giessen, where he had been assistant in the medical clinic since 1883.
Writings Kicinski has written cookbooks including Simply Gluten Free Desserts (2011), Simply Gluten Free Quick Meals (2012), Simply Gluten Free Cupcakes (2013) and Simply Gluten Free 5 Ingredient Cookbook (2016).
In his 25 years as a physician at Mayo, Alvarez published 347 scientific papers, focusing on digestion and the human gut.
As group director for nutritional specialties, the firm made nutrition products for infants and children.
In 1914 he married May Tweedy, a lecturer at Bedford College (London) who would also carry out research into nutrition and dental disease.
He grew up on the island of Karmøy and took his secondary education at Lycée Corneille in Rouen, France.
Oneworld Publications, 2019 ISBN 978-1786075130 Ending Hunger:The Quest to Feed the World Without Destroying it.
Blog The website and blog, Simply Gluten Free, was Kicinski's first platform for sharing gluten-free recipes, starting in 2007.
It looks at the evolution of human diets, protein needs within the body and problems of world malnutrition.
Since at least 2023, Maye Musk has developed a large following in China, where she has "star status" and is seen as a role model.
He fell ill and, after police officials realized the severity of his condition, they transported him to a hospital.
Philip Bovier Hawk (July 18, 1874 - September 13, 1966) was an American biochemist, nutritionist, and amateur tennis player.
Oniang'o is the Founder Editor-in-chief of the African Journal of Food, Agriculture, Nutrition and Development (AJFAND) in 2001 to highlight relevant academic research in the field.
Over many years Grant championed the use of fresh and natural ingredients along with minimising the amount of processing in our food.
He served on bodies advising the National Institutes of Health and the National Research Council in the United States, and internationally to the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization.
In 2024, Hill released The living Proof Challenge, a zero-cost 12 week challenge to help people optimise important biomarkers to lower their risk of disease and live better for longer.
She wrote many papers and 12 books, including Toxicity of Industrial Organic Solvents which became the standard reference on the subject.
DiSpirito was a contestant on season seven of Dancing with the Stars and was paired with professional ballroom dancer Karina Smirnoff.
Horace Benge Dobell (1 January 1828 – 22 February 1917) was an English doctor and medical writer, consulting doctor to the Royal Infirmary/Hospital for Diseases of the Chest.
She is a member of the Canadian Association for the Gastronomic and Hotel Press (Association canadienne de santé publiqu) and of the Union des Artistes.
During Project Mercury, the astronauts could not safely remove their protective clothing to perform this physiological function, so this diet was crucial.
Rorer's Vegetable Cookery and Meat Substitute, which illustrated how to cook three meatless meals a day.
While at the Bamako institute, she notably developed Deliken, a sorghum-based nutritional biscuit, among other food products and techniques.
This booked was well received by the media with stellar reviews from the women's magazine Marie Claire (February 2009), further reviews were cited by other UK newspapers.
COVID Symptom Study In March 2020, during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in the UK, Spector made use of twins already taking part in a genetic study to begin an investigation of COVID-19 symptoms.
Other work Pollan is a contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine and a former executive editor for Harper's Magazine.
Most RDs work in the treatment and prevention of disease (administering medical nutrition therapy, as part of medical teams), often in hospitals, health-maintenance organizations, private practices, or other health-care facilities.
Genster was born September 5, 1917, in Sheffield, Illinois, where he graduated from high school when he was 16 years old and spent a year working on a farm before attending college.
Michael Hebranko (May 14, 1953 – July 25, 2013) was an American man who suffered from an extreme case of morbid obesity and was one of the heaviest men in the world.
She became a passionate believer in the diet, and after advocating for it in a series of articles in Sunday Graphic, she was visited by William Howard Hay, the developer of the diet, who asked her to create a recipe for British tastes.
Agnes White Tizard (July 10, 1895 – March 28, 1979) was an American home economist and nutrition consultant who worked for General Mills and was associated with the brand character Betty Crocker.
She became especially interested and competent in the field of nutrition, including related economic considerations.
Legacy and impact Wahlqvist is recognized for pioneering human nutrition as an academic discipline in Australia and for advancing cross-disciplinary approaches linking nutritional science with ecosystem and public health.
Louise Horne DCSG (12 May 1912 – 28 March 2021) was a Trinidad and Tobago politician and nutritionist who introduced the school meals programme.
Subsequently she worked as an agricultural officer in Tobago, a small island north of Trinidad, where she was the first and only woman in the ministry of agriculture, and where she met her husband, Finn Thilsted.
Wicks also topped both the YouTube charts as the number one trending and breakout creator of the year.
Her research was the first to show that nutritional deficiency in the host can permit a non-virulent virus to become virulent, indicting that the nutritional status of the host can drive infection.
Works Kitab al-Iqtisad "The book of moderation," this was a treatise on general therapy written in his youth for the Almoravid prince Ibrahim Yusuf ibn Tashfin.
By July 2020 the app had more than 4 million users, and the next month the project received grant funding from the Department of Health and Social Care.
Career Ryley was a dietitian at Albany General Hospital for a year, and superintendent of the dining halls at the University of Toronto for nine years.
Claiborne was the first man to supervise the food page at a major American newspaper and is credited with broadening The New York Times's coverage of new restaurants and innovative chefs.
She served as a member of the Commission on Education and Training, the International Union for Conservation of Nature & Natural Resources (IUCNNR), Switzerland and as Chairperson, Food & Nutrition Programme Committee, International Federation For Home Economics (IFHM), France.
Selected publications Black's Medical Dictionary (1906 and later editions) History of Scottish Medicine to 1860 (London, Baillière, Tindall & Cox, 1927) Diet in Health and Sickness (1933) Comrie, John D.
She later became the Head of the Department of Food and Nutrition and the Dean of the School of Home Economics (1947-1960).
Although an injury ruled her out of both matches, she recovered to participate in the 2014 UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship qualification series hosted by Ireland later that month.
Kabir received several awards from the food and television industries, including the Sheltech Award in 2009.
The Park Avenue Diet The Park Avenue Diet is a six-week weight loss program including meal plans and advice regarding exercise, hair, makeup, and relationships.
Chantal Yvette Kaboré-Zoungrana (née Kaboré) is a Burkinabé animal nutritionist and biosecurity expert.
As of 2022, she is a professor of nutrition at the University of Illinois Chicago (UIC) in the department of Kinesiology and Nutrition.
Méthodes analytiques et procédés pour reconnaître les fraudes, 1884 – The sophistication of wines: analytical methods and processes to recognize fraud.
One of those programmes was the development of the first television programme devoted to nutritional advice, called Creative Cooking.
A Journal of Daily Renewal: The Companion to Make the Connection, by Bob Greene and Oprah Winfrey, 1996; ISBN 0-7868-8215-8.
His first National Geographic article, in the July 1972 issue, described his two-week stay on an uninhabited island off the coast of Maine.
Clement in the 1981 American film The Bunker Bettina Redlich in the 2004 German film Downfall (Der Untergang) See also Adolf Hitler and vegetarianism List of people who disappeared References Footnotes Citations Sources Beevor, Antony (2002).
Stillman’s 14-Day Shape-Up Program (with Irwin Stillman, 1974) The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet (with Herman Tarnower, 1978) Delicious Quick-Trim Diet (1985) References External links Samm S.
Television In 2009, Kicinski started doing television cooking segments on the NBC-based WFLA-Tampa Bay's Daytime TV show.
In April 2013 she scored a hat-trick for the latter in their 4–3 FAI Schools Cup final win over Christ King.
Felice Nellie Jacka is an Australian academic, founder and president of the International Society for Nutritional Psychiatry Research.
Selected publications and reports by Klicka "Effects of Reduced Fat Intake on Serum Lipids in Healthy Young Men and Women at the U.S.
With the onset of World War II, Blaxter was conscripted and served with the 10th Field Regiment of the Royal Artillery from spring 1940 to the end of 1941, when he returned to NIRD.
In his book Healthy Aging, Weil looks at the process of growing older from a physical, social, and cross-cultural perspective, and in his book Why our Health Matters is focused on health care reform.
Research and publications Wahlqvist’s work encompasses clinical nutrition, public health, food systems, and ecohealth.
As part of this role Kaboré-Zoungrana announced the trialling of genetically modified cotton in association with Monsanto, an important crop for Burkina Faso, in 2011.
He worked as an assistant to Wilbur Olin Atwater in nutrition research at Wesleyan University (1898–1900).
For example, while Schuster served as the last Ambassador of Czechoslovakia to Canada from 1990 until 1992, Schusterová handled the diplomatic social duties expected of an ambassador's spouse.
Since the product contained Western medicine laxative ingredients and was not manufactured with the permission of the health authorities, it clearly violated the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act.
It was published in 2017 and has been seen as a reaction to and debunking of food faddism and unscientific advice about food promoted by advocates of "clean eating" and celebrities such as Gwyneth Paltrow.
Jung Da-yeon is a South Korean health influencer widely known as a Korean popular culture figure under the moniker "Auntie with a striking body" (Korean: 몸짱 아줌마; RR: momjjang ajumma).
A nutritionist, Valbonesi owns a healthy dining establishment, fitness center and has specialized in healthier diets and weight loss.
Selected publications The Erect Posture (Good Health, 1921) Fasting (The Medical Standard, 1922) Minor Maladies and Their Treatment (1923) The Science and Art of Living (1924) Middle Age and Old Age (1925) Obesity (1926) Minor Medical Mysteries (1935) See also Raw foodism == References ==
She then worked as a researcher at the Institut d'Economie Rurale in Bamako from 1990 to 1995 and at Texas A&M University in the U.S.
He was appointed full professor at the Faculty of Public Health at the University of São Paulo in 1989.
Selected publications His book on diabetes and its treatment, "Die zuckerkrankheit und ihre behandlung" (1895), was published over numerous editions.
Personal life She is the daughter of the artist William Geissler and the glass engraver Alison Geissler.
She appeared nude on both the cover of Time magazine for a health issue and the cover of New York magazine in 2011, the latter with a fake pregnant belly.
His column, "The Minimalist," ran in The New York Times for more than 13 years; the final column was published on January 26, 2011.
Selected works Anderson, Craig; Sally Rubenach; Cliona Ni Mhurchu; Michael Clark; Carol Spencer, and Adrian Winsor.
Madelyn Hirsch Fernstrom is an American scientist and broadcast journalist, She is also Professor of Psychiatry, Epidemiology and Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and a Board certified Nutrition Specialist.
Tayyem received the UNESCO-L'Oreal Fellowship for Young Women in Life Sciences and conducted postdoctoral research at UCSD Cancer Center at the University of California, San Diego, in the United States.
In 2021 she left her work to join the Schoenstatt Sisters of Mary, an international Catholic community of religious women, part of the international Schoenstatt movement.
Christine Envall (born 28 November 1972) is an Australian professional bodybuilder and nutritionist.
Christian diet programs are books and other name-brand products promoting weight-loss diets and other diets that the authors believe are consistent with Christian rules and values.
Tedstone is a Registered Public Health Nutritionist and a founding fellow of the Association for Nutrition, the voluntary regulator for nutritionists in the United Kingdom.
He was a singles semifinalist at the Cincinnati Open in 1908 and won singles titles at the state championships of Delaware (1905), and Connecticut (1907, 1908 and 1909).
While she was based at Nazi Boni University, Kaboré-Zoungrana investigated the effects of plant nutrition on livestock, including measuring the health of sheep consuming native plants Afzelia africana, Pterocarpus erinaceus or Khaya senegalensis when obtained during different seasons.
The Valley Center History Museum has a permanent exhibit about Tizard's life and work, where visitors can listen to a 1936 recording of Tizard speaking on the Cooking School of the Air radio program.
A growing number of dietitians work in the food industry, medical corporations, journalism, sports nutrition, corporate wellness programs, and other non-traditional dietetics settings.
One of the most extensive testimonies came from the couple's maid, Lilia Cárdenas, who had worked for them since 1995.
Awards and honours Rank Nutrition Named Lecture, Diabetes UK, 2017 University of Cambridge Impact Award, 2016 Senior Investigator, National Institute for Health Research, 2021 == References ==
Education Tedstone has a BSc and a PhD degree from the University of London, and conducted research into nutrition at the University of Oxford.
In 1985, she worked as dietetic internship director at Alton Ochsner Medical Foundation, also in New Orleans, LA, until 1993.
In 2019 Kaboré-Zoungrana also opened a new National Biosafety Laboratory on the Institut de l'Environnement et Recherches Agricoles campus in Ouagadougou, alongside Prof Alkassoum Maiga, Minister of Higher Education, Scientific Research and Innovation.
Dimbleby's great-grandmother, May Gaskell, was a "romantic confidante" of the artist Edward Burne-Jones, and a painting of her daughter Amy Gaskell by Burne-Jones is in the collection of Andrew Lloyd Webber.
Diehl suggested that most vegetarians are not really vegetarian because they consume dairy or egg products.
The President's Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition updated the President's Challenge Youth Fitness Test to reflect the latest science on kids' health and promote active, healthy lifestyles rather than athletic performance and competition.
The Feingold diet To treat or prevent hyperactivity, Feingold suggested a diet that was free of salicylates, artificial colors, artificial flavors, BHA, and BHT.
Rützler added that even in a blind trial she would have taken the product for meat rather than a soya copy.
The book condemned the food-habits of Australians, their meat-eating three times a day and excessive beer and tea consumption.
She was employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs from 1935 to 1944, then took a position with National Research Council until 1949, and from 1949 to 1954 at the University of New Mexico.
In 2013, Freedhoff criticized Health Check, a nutritional certification program operated by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, for having endorsed products with high sodium and/or sugar contents.
Education Mellanby was born in West Hartlepool, the son of a shipyard owner, and educated at Barnard Castle School and Emmanuel College, Cambridge, where he studied physiology.
Also in 1990, she was awarded honorary life membership of the New Zealand Dietetic Association / Dietitians New Zealand.
The Kindergarten system in the state was founded by that organisation, as was the local Girl Guides Association.
On May 23, 2007, Hasselbeck was involved in a heated on-air argument with co-host Rosie O'Donnell concerning the war in Iraq, which she supported and O'Donnell opposed.
In 2018, she was one of 18 French former Olympic and Paralympic athletes chosen to support the Paris bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics.
His father, John Dobell, was a wine merchant and his mother Julietta was a daughter of Samuel Thompson (1766–1837), a London political reformer.
Lahmann was influenced by the methods used by Vincenz Priessnitz (1799-1851) and Johann Schroth (1798-1856), both pioneers in the field of alternative medicine.
Having already been in Moscow as a hitting partner, she joined Alicia Molik, Samantha Stosur and Rennae Stubbs as the fourth team member after Nicole Pratt withdrew.
Little-White focused on outreach programmes to increase awareness, accessibility, and assistance for Jamaicans with disabilities in her later years.
She designed rations and their packaging for special contexts, including MREs and food for the Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo manned space missions, at the Army's Food Engineering Laboratory in Natick, Massachusetts.
She graduated from high school at the Nairobi International School (now known as International School of Kenya).
In 1993, she hosted the premiere of an educational video promoting the importance of a healthy diet for people living with HIV/AIDS.
Bodybuilding career Amateur career Envall is one of the few female bodybuilders with a career that spans more than two decades.
The author of over 400 published papers and other works, he served as editor of Nutrition Reviews from 1968 until 1978.
The diet recommended taking six bananas with 1000 cubic centimetres (4 glassfuls) of skimmed milk each day.
She is remembered for conducting ground-breaking research from the late 1940s into the Indigenous and First Nations peoples of Australia, Papua New Guinea and the Pacific region.
Tene, Ofra (2015), "'The New Immigrant Must Not Only Learn, He Must Also Forget': The making of Eretz Israeli Ashkenzi Cuisine", in Helman, Anat (ed.), Jews and Their Foodways, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0190265434 External links 1981 oral history interview with Dr.
They are looking to alternate sources of protein such as peas, beans, fish, poultry, cheese, eggs, milk, and milk products...
She carried out a year of research in nutritional epidemiology at the Geneva University Hospitals (French: Hôpitaux universitaires de Genève, HUG) in 1995.
In January 2012, Dukan suggested that the Baccalaureate exam, taken by 17-year-old children, should include one test which the children could pass simply by staying within appropriate weight limits.
Agatston is now the CEO of The Agatston Center, a multidisciplinary preventive practice in Miami with notable physicians Cindy Shaffer, MD, Oren Mechanic, MD, James Trice, MD, and Judi Woolger, MD.
He prescribed his patients individualized diets to help cure their ailments and also experimented with meat substitutes.
In March 2012 the French Ordre des médecins asserted that Dukan had violated the organization's medical code of practice by practising medicine as a business.
Claire Loewenfeld died on 20 August 1974, and is buried at St Lawrence's Church, Cholesbury, Buckinghamshire, near where she lived, alongside her husband Gunther Loewenfeld's cousins, Margaret Lowenfeld and Helena Wright née Lowenfeld.
Foreseeing the need to develop formal training programs and courses for dietitians and nutritionists in the Hadassah system after the establishment of the State of Israel, Bavly asked for and received a scholarship to return to Columbia University in 1946.
"Sleep timing is associated with diet and physical activity levels in 9-11-year-old children from Dunedin, New Zealand: the PEDALS study".
The book also inspired a film by Woody Allen, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (*But Were Afraid to Ask) (1972).
He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters since 1988 and was a Knight, First Class of the Order of St.
After the war, she worked as a neurosurgeon at the Central Institute of Neurosurgery of the USSR Academy of Sciences.
They live on beans, fruits, seeds, monkey nuts, yams, maize, cayenne peppers, palm oil and occasionally palm wine.
His research focuses on the molecular and clinical aspects of nutrition and cancer, particularly folate metabolism, colorectal and breast cancer prevention, and epigenetics.
Additionally, in the weeks before each Project Mercury launch, Finkelstein would manage the astronauts' diet at a specialized facility behind NASA Hangar S in Cape Canaveral, Florida.
She sat as a full member on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Delegation for relations with the Federative Republic of Brazil.
The Rural Outreach Africa works with Kenyan smallholder farmers to promote the growth of indigenous crops like sorghum, cassava, arrowroot, and jute mallow as a solution to ensuring food security and Nutrition.
However, Bunge rejected the entire idea of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies; he opposed the doctoral dissertation of Nikolai Lunin regarding Vitamin C and scurvy.
Jean-Michel Cohen (born 22 May 1956) is a French nutritionist and author, best known for the Parisian Diet.
Ashley Adamson is a British dietician, Professor of Public Health Nutrition at Newcastle University.
Works She was the author of many books and a large number of publications including: "A System for all Systems." Soviet Life, Issues 1–6, pg.30-33, 1989.
The significance of this work in shaping future nutrition policy is disputed, and the Dietary Goals for the United States asks Americans to, "Reduce the consumption of refined and other processed sugars by about 45 percent to account for about 10 percent of total energy intake".
The experts are socialite Tinsley Mortimer, hairdresser Joel Warren, fitness personality Bernadette Penotti, psychologist Stanley Krippner, makeup artist Laura Geller, business consultant Helene Hellsten, and chef Marie-Annick Courtier.
Widdowson became one of the first woman graduates of Imperial College of London after earning her Bachelor's degree in 1928 for chemistry.
In 1963, Calloway took a position as a professor of nutrition at the University of California, Berkeley; she retired in 1991 and stayed a professor emerita until she was too affected by Parkinson's disease to work.
Garland recalled, "When my brother, Cedric, and I looked at one of the first maps produced by the National Cancer Institute of colon cancer incidence rates in the United States, we both immediately noticed a pattern, a distinct North-South gradient in incidence.
Here she developed Newcastle's research activity in Public Health Nutrition, and was made a Personal Chair in 2010.
A portion of each sale goes to the Garden to Table charity, which teaches children the essential skills of gardening and cooking.
Her book, Family Circle Quick Menu Cookbook offers quick full meals that can be prepared in less than an hour.
Willett is the principal investigator of the second Nurses' Health Study (NHS2 or NHS II), a compilation of studies regarding the health of older women and their risk factors for major chronic diseases.
Pavy died on 19 September 1911 and was buried in a family vault on the western side of Highgate Cemetery.
In 1976, she married the retired Harvard anthropology professor Douglas Oliver and settled with him in Honolulu.
In November 2018, Gordon-Larsen was appointed the University of North Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health's Associate Dean for Research as she stepped down as chair of the NIH Kidney, Nutrition, Obesity and Diabetes study section.
In 1882 Dobell moved to Bournemouth, where in 1885 he became a consulting physician at the newly opened Mont Dore hydropathic sanatorium for patients with chest diseases.
This was based on observations of the difference in patterns of diseases between Western and traditional African societies.
De la Fuente de Diez Canseco, Luciana; Muñoz Jáuregui, Ana María; Valdizán Ayala, José; Gómez Mendoza, José; Portugal Melgar, Alan; Cárdenas Jarama, Martín; Cuya Alvarado, Shirley (September 2019).
As part of her academic growth, she has participated in congresses by a variety of institutions, including the Latin American Society of Nutrition, Chemical Society of Peru and Peruvian Society of Nutrition, of which she is a member.
Rorer was in charge of the Philadelphia Cooking School for 18 years and was able to reach 5,000 students through education during that time.
Brophy also sat as a substitute member on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and Delegation for relations with Afghanistan.
Brazil To obtain the Nutritionist title, one must have studied at a recognized university for four years plus a year practice (internship).
Helsing attended the University of Oslo, and subsequently wrote on and campaigned for natural breastfeeding.
The main criticism was taste, with Betty Friedan describing in her 1963 book The Feminine Mystique that women "ate a chalk called Metrecal".
He joined the Medical Department of King's College, gained the senior Medical Scholarship and qualified M.D from London University.
In 2013, DiSpirito hosted the Food Network reality show Restaurant Divided, where he went to struggling restaurants where the owners had two differing visions and then picked which concept would save the restaurant.
He was commissioned as a lieutenant in February 1916 rose to the rank of captain, serving in both France and Italy.
In 2017, she received the Ryley-Jeffs Memorial Award, the highest honour given to a Canadian dietitian.
Mosley described himself as "quite religious" until around the age of 20 and considered becoming a priest.
In June 1999, Hebranko was at his peak weight of 499 kg (1,100 lb), before again undergoing a massive weight loss and dropping to 207.5 kg (457 lb).
Genster oversaw the addition of chocolate, butterscotch and several other flavors, and created brand extensions such as Metrecal cookies and clam chowder, many of which were first tested on his own children.
These studies were important in examining the physical properties and energy values of common dietary foods so that calorie tables could be compiled.
She played a significant role in establishing the Jordanian Dietary guidelines for healthy individuals and patients with chronic diseases related to diet.
In 1985, in Chihuahua, he married María Luisa López-Collada Márquez de Richardson, the widow of American banker William B.
Aside from that, he also was among some of the first doctors in the world to emphasize the weight and significance of food allergy.
The book presents nutritional information and recommendations based on what was then the consensus of nutrition scientists, and is critical of many misconceptions about diet and nutrition, including ideas presented by guidelines from American organizations such as the USDA.
The home became a haven for Dolly, away from the crowds and fitted out with suitably sized furniture and bathroom fixtures.
Early life She was born in Maidstone, Kent, where her father was a director of the Lead Wool Company, a tool company.
Nonetheless, it was another decade before OSU conceded it should have called in outside investigators.
For the first office visit, Gosnell allegedly charged $115, but around December 2009 he allegedly increased the initial office visit fee to $150.
Investigation The murder investigation began in 1988 after Wood's ex-husband, whom she had told about the murders, went to the police.
During the legal proceedings, Agüero was incarcerated at the Bouwer prison in inner Córdoba, where she was isolated from other inmates to protect her from harm.
During the mental health assessment, psychiatrists found out that Nykopp-Koski is psychopathic and has an antisocial personality disorder, but she was deemed culpable for her actions.
Harold Shipman, the British doctor dubbed "Doctor Death" whose inquiry suggested he was responsible for 250 deaths.
Murders While working at Adventist Health Glendale in Glendale, California, Saldivar killed his patients by injecting a paralytic drug which led to respiratory and/or cardiac arrest.
Legal case 2010 raid Gosnell's clinic, the Women's Medical Society, was raided on February 18, 2010, under a search warrant by investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Pennsylvania State Police.
In the mid-seventies, she served as geriatrics manager within a Belgian public hospital in Wetteren.
Later murders From 2006 up until the autumn of 2010, Vila lamented to her colleagues that 'all the old women were dying on [her]'.
Media coverage and public reactions Gosnell's arrest has been the subject of much public comment and expressions of condemnation and shock by senior public figures of all parties.
She discovered in the process that she enjoyed playing God and holding the power of life and death in her hands.
The documentary was made by David Altrogge and won Best Short Film at the 2013 Justice Film Festival.
Wood was incarcerated in the minimum security Federal Correctional Institution, Tallahassee in Florida; she was released January 16, 2020 and is expected to live with relatives in South Carolina.
She was released on parole after only serving two years and later, on the condition that she move to New Zealand, received a full pardon from Governor Ernest Lister in 1916.
She worked as a nurse and was found guilty of killing five patients and the attempted murder of five more.
Both women labelled Jones as "evil" and "cold-blooded", while Connie Weeks, mother of victim Joshua Sawyer, read a statement in court, wishing that Jones "live a long and miserable life behind bars".
Eventually, Majors's coworkers began noticing a correlation between the spike in deaths and when he was on duty and joked about when the next patient would die.
See also Beverley Allitt, another nurse dubbed "The Angel of Death" who was responsible for killing patients.
Efren Saldivar (born September 30, 1969) is an American serial killer who murdered patients while working as a respiratory therapist at Adventist Health Glendale, named at that time Glendale Adventist Medical Center in Glendale, California.
Maria Gruber, Irene Leidolf, Stephanija Meyer, and Waltraud Wagner were four Austrian women who worked as nurse's aides at the Geriatriezentrum am Wienerwald in Lainz, Vienna, and who murdered scores of patients between 1983 and 1989.
Tomlinson, began a hearing in February 2011 to look into the failure of the Pennsylvania Department of State — which is responsible for licensing doctors — to provide any oversight of Gosnell's activities.
Wilson claimed that the acid had been mistakenly given to her by the pharmacist who prepared the medicine.
See also List of serial killers in the United States List of serial killers active in the 2020s == References ==
Police during her house search found books about bulimia, anorexia nervosa, death and her most read novels are Invisible Women by Fabiola De Clercq, Sprecata by Marya Hornbacher, Death is a friend by Marie de Hennezel, and above all Veronika Decides To Die by Paulo Coelho.
Described as kind and without any prior criminal history, on 27 June 2013, a tragedy occurred that changed her life: the death of her mother from leukaemia.
This was discovered by the medical director of the garrison, who informed the Public Prosecutor's Office.
Malèvre's arrest raised a national debate over the case itself as well as over the controversial topic of euthanasia in France.
As it was not supposed to do that, it was examined further, with the doctors discovering that it had been mixed with diamitol.
The Besançon poisonings was a French legal case resulting in the conviction of French anesthesiologist Frédéric Péchier to a life sentence for intentionally poisoning 30 patients and killing 12.
In 2008, the Justice Ministry in Austria announced that it would release Wagner and Leidolf from prison due to good behaviour.
Some of the more famous were Mirza Mohammad Farrokhi Yazdi, Abdolhossein Teymourtash, Sardar As'ad and his brother Khānbābā Khān As'ad, Taghi Arani, and Ayatollah Mirza Mohammad Najafi Khorasani (Ayatollah Aghazadeh).
See also Hayato Imai, another nurse who killed patients in the same region, on death row References External links Court proceedings (in Japanese)
Taking prior convictions into account, the court determined Högel's "severe gravity of guilt", a German legal term which significantly increases the respective sentence's severity and precludes a chance of early release after serving a minimum of 15 years.
The judge, speaking directly to Mays, stated, "Several times your counsels made the point that you shouldn't be considered a monster.
The Kanagawa Prefectural Police have designated this as the Oguchi Hospital Inpatient Murder Case, while the Kanagawa Shimbun named it the Oguchi Hospital Continuous Drip Murder Case.
In April 2013, 71 other Members of Congress joined Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn in a letter condemning the media "blackout" on the Gosnell trial.
Prosecutors said Gilbert threatened the life of at least one person verbally and physically in July 1996.
She was charged with three counts of criminal damage with intent to endanger life, three counts of criminal damage being reckless as to whether life was being endangered, and one charge of theft.
The principal French association supporting the right to die immediately dropped its support for Malèvre.
The only case for which any reports were produced was that of Semika Shaw, a 22-year-old, who died at the University of Pennsylvania hospital as a result of bleeding and sepsis caused by a botched procedure by Gosnell.
In all, Angelo was suspected of poisoning at least 35 people at the hospital while working there for seven months, though the medical examiner was unable to conclusively attribute the deaths to the injections.
On April 4, 1969, after Thomas had passed out, Velma and their children left the house; when they returned, they found the house burned and Thomas dead.
Marie Fikáčková (9 September 1936 – 13 April 1961) was a Czech suspected serial killer, convicted for the killing of two newborn babies in Sušice in 1960.
In August 1979, Hansson was sentenced to closed psychiatric treatment, where he remained until 1994.
Her former lawyer Harald Schmidt was jailed for seven years for being an accomplice to grievous bodily harm and for forging the will of Alois Pichler.
Four years later, she was found guilty of murdering her 64-year-old husband Friedrick Doecker and 84-year-old female neighbour Franziska Koeberl.
The significance of the evidence that the defendants had been in the room shortly before was that the injections of Pavulon, according to the prosecution's experts, must have been administered only minutes before the victims had suffered paralysis and stopped breathing.
Holland called an ambulance and Jones was hospitalized, with doctors performing a stomach pumping to clean her system of the drug.
See also Anders Hansson, a nursing aide who committed similar murders at a nursing home in Malmö, Sweden, during roughly the same time.
However, they rebuked the claims that her schizophrenia affected her judgment, finding that she was legally sane at the time when she committed the murders.
When he suspected his lover and roommate Carl Hoeweler of infidelity, he poisoned Hoeweler's food with arsenic so he would be too ill to leave their apartment.
His charges included 16 counts of murder, 12 counts of manslaughter and one count of killing on request.
At Stepping Hill it was suspected that, due to the increased levels of insulin in the patients' bloodstreams, they quickly became hypoglycemic and three confirmed fatalities occurred.
With 22 claimed victims between 1995 and 2001, he is the most prolific serial killer in Swiss criminal history.
According to her testimony, Joyner wanted attention, as she claimed that a few days before his arrest, he had contacted her, claiming that he would soon become famous and be written about in the media.
Investigation Between March and June 2022, unusually high infant mortality rates occurred at a neonatal nursing unit in the Ramón Castillo Neonatal Hospital in Córdoba, Argentina.
Murders Petrov committed his first murder on 2 February 1999 during his thirtieth robbery, when he was interrupted by the daughter of an anaesthetised patient who returned home while he was stealing.
Her second job came as an employee of the South Texas Medical Center, where she worked in the obstetric unit.
A forensic psychological evaluation determined that Hansen suffered from histrionic personality disorder.
Harvey became a person of interest when investigators learned he had been forced to resign from the Cincinnati VA hospital after he was caught stealing body parts for occult rituals.
Sisák was convicted as an accomplice in her husband's murder and sentenced to 15 years imprisonment.
However, Mark Sochaski, an analytical chemist and bioterrorism expert, was developing a test for measuring chlorine exposure by measuring the presence of chlorotyrosine, an amino acid formed from exposure to chlorinating agents such as bleach.
In the course of one month up to fifteen children are thought to have been targeted, all between the ages of one and ten.
In January 1998, Gilbert stood trial for calling in a bomb threat to the Northampton VAMC to retaliate against coworkers and former boyfriend James Perrault (who also worked at the hospital) for their participation in the investigation.
Police selected 20 bodies to exhume out of a total of 1,050 patients who had died at Glendale Adventist during Saldivar's shifts.
His former partner said after his conviction that Norris had once hit him during an argument, bruising his head and once threw a bottle at him, which caused him to break up with Norris.
Early life Beverly Gail Allitt was born on 4 October 1968 and grew up in the village of Corby Glen near the town of Grantham.
In September 2019, he was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison after pleading guilty to killing Harvey.
Alpine Manor has since gone out of business, but the building now houses a nursing home called "Sanctuary at Saint Mary's".
The length and complexity of the trial meant that judge Mr Justice Griffith Williams took five days to read out his 571-page summing-up.
This case is considered by the prosecution to be the key piece of evidence in the case, but the accused continues to dispute it, citing outside manipulation.
The five were accused of having prior knowledge of the "Cazzaniga protocol" and intentionally hampering investigations by not reporting the suspicious deaths to the authorities.
Senior legal counsel Kenneth Brody insisted that the department had no legal obligation to monitor abortion clinics, even though it exercised such a duty until the Ridge administration, and exercised it again as soon as Gosnell became big news.
Hazzard claimed that the deceased had succumbed to undisclosed or hitherto undiagnosed illnesses such as cancer or cirrhosis.
Evidence of colchicine poisoning was given by toxicologist Alfred Swaine Taylor, the defence being that the poison could not be reliably detected after so long.
In popular culture Geen's case has been the subject of multiple television programmes: A series 1 episode of the series Nurses Who Kill aired in 2016 which focused on Geen's crimes.
On the same day, the Yokohama District Public Prosecutor's Office announces that it will take up the case.
They also conducted an investigation in the United States and Canada and learned about their suspect's history, including the conviction for a murder by poison in 1881.
The judge described Brega Massone as "cruel, malevolent and lacking the slightest sense of human pity".
Investigation An autopsy revealed high levels of arsenic in Obendoerfer's body, which aroused police suspicions.
Emergency Medical Services had been called to the clinic 30 times in April, during the previous 15 months there had only been two such calls.
Murders Hahn allegedly began poisoning and robbing elderly men in Cincinnati's German community to support her gambling habit.
Wood testified that the couple turned the selection of victims into a game, first trying to choose their victims by their initials to spell M-U-R-D-E-R.
More seriously than this, the three nuns disclosed that Bombeek had murdered Maria van der Gunst (87), an elderly woman who suffered from diabetes and was killed through an insulin overdose which induced a severe hypoglycemia attack.
Cardozo said that he had presented his resignation with the goal of helping clarify and serve justice in the case.
Paramedic Karol Banaś was sentenced to 25 years imprisonment for the "particularly cruel" (szczególnie okrutne) murder of Ludmiła Ś.
December 2001 – Ex-employee Marcella Choung gave what a grand jury would later call "a detailed written complaint" to the Pennsylvania Department of State, one which she followed up with an interview in March 2002.
As a nurse in hospital Havlíčkův Brod, 100 kilometres (62 mi) southeast of Prague, he murdered seven patients by lethal injection, and attempted to kill 10 others between May and December, 2006.
Gerolamo Kuchich, 73, from Yugoslavia and visiting Dix Hills, was injected with a non-fatal dose of Pavulon on October 11, 1987.
Graham maintained her innocence, testifying that the alleged murders were part of an elaborate "mind game" by Wood.
Maria Catherina van der Linden-Swanenburg (9 September 1839 – 11 April 1915) was a Dutch serial killer who murdered at least 27 people and was suspected of killing more than 90 people.
2015 trial and confession From January 2014 onward, the Oldenburg district attorney's office initiated another investigation into the incidents at the Delmenhorst Clinic.
These leaks stated that the terminally ill patients had neither wanted nor asked her to aid in their suicides.
Geen was formally accused of two murders and of inflicting grievous bodily harm with intent upon 16 patients.
After a deliberation lasting only 12 minutes, the jury found him guilty of all counts, and Justice Henry Hawkins sentenced him to death.
Wood also portrayed Graham as being sexually, physically and emotionally dominant in their relationship.
He attempted to rationalize this by claiming that he had done it while the patient was either restless or in pain, and that he did not know what to do as there were supposedly no doctors around, attempting to portray himself as the victim.
Despite these confessions and Feltner being questioned by police, no charges were brought due to a lack of evidence.
After this, Petrov's modus operandi changed: he began to use a lethal mix of a variety of different drugs to inject into his victims instead of an anaesthetic so that the victim would die, and so the police would think that the killer had little medical knowledge.
He claimed that his own studies had shown that up to 1 in 10 of hypoglycaemia episodes in elderly people were caused naturally.
He received his medical degree in December 1921 and relocated to Villeneuve-sur-Yonne, where he received payment for his services both from the patients and from government medical assistance funds.
However, she was suspected of murdering more than thirty of that facility's elderly residents during a two-year span, between 1976 and 1978.
In the court ruling, it was deemed that the suspect's confession was very unlikely to have been forced, and was deemed credible.
Petrov had been married twice and has three children, one from his first marriage and two from his second marriage.
The complaint was that Gosnell had been unable to complete an abortion, but then apparently failed or refused to call paramedics or other clinical emergency personnel after the patient had needed help.
After some time in this role, Bombeek was officially accused of killing three patients – due to allegations that each was too noisy at night.
In 1976, Barfield began caring for the elderly, working for Montgomery and Dollie Edwards in Lumberton.
He had a drinking problem, and his wife was disturbed by his unusual behavior and his abuse of the family dogs.
The GMC charged six doctors who signed cremation forms for Shipman's victims with misconduct on the grounds that they should have noticed the pattern between Shipman's home visits and his patients' deaths; they were all found not guilty.
On 29 March 2014, Chua was charged with the murders of Tracey Arden, Arnold Lancaster and Alfred Derek Weaver, and 31 other offences including grievous bodily harm and attempted poisoning.
On February 16, 2016, the Kanagawa Prefectural Police arrested 23-year-old Hayato Imai, a former employee, on murder charges.
In popular culture Horror writer Stephen King reportedly based Annie Wilkes, the antagonist of his novel Misery, on Jones, with many fans finding similarities between Wilkes and Jones.
Less than a month after his conviction, on 15 November, Cream was hanged at Newgate Prison by James Billington.
The Malmö Östra hospital murders were a Swedish case of serial senicide committed by the 18-year-old Anders Hansson at a hospital in Malmö between October 1978 and January 1979.
See also List of homicides in Michigan List of serial killers in the United States References Resources Buhk, T.T.
He was arrested after Malla Yassin was arrested in early 2006, and confessed to being the leader of an insurgent cell that included Louay.
Eight, including Gosnell's wife, subsequently pleaded guilty, most of whom would testify against Gosnell, and three of these pleaded guilty to third-degree murder, carrying a 20- to 40-year term.
In 2003, after Shipman had been convicted, a paper by statistician David Spiegelhalter and others found that Shipman's mortality rates had been broadly in line with national rates between 1988 and 1994, and started increasing in 1995.
Statistics only made up a minor part of the evidence against Geen, his conviction being mainly based on the direct evidence against him that the CCRC had taken note of when turning down the application, such as the murder weapon found in his pocket full of the drugs used in the attacks.
But when medical examination failed to reveal physical evidence of homicide, not entirely unusual in a smothering case, the county medical examiner nevertheless ruled the deaths homicides, basing it on the interviews Wood had given to the police.
After Majors started working at the facility, however, the rate skyrocketed to more than 100 per year, with nearly one out of every three patients admitted to the hospital dying.
Charges were only brought against Davis for four deaths due to the difficulty in proving the others.
He was committed to hospital in 1958 by his former wife, but released after less than three months of therapy.
Though Massachusetts does not have capital punishment at the state level, her crimes were committed on federal property and thus tried in federal court and subject to the federal death penalty.
They committed their crimes in the Alpine Manor nursing home, where they both worked as nurse's aides.
However, Wood's accounts and her self-portrayal as Graham's pawn were later brought into serious question by award-winning journalist Lowell Cauffiel in his 1992 true crime book, Forever and Five Days.
The state police medical team noticed several patients' heart patterns widening around the time that Majors was on duty.
Prosecutors sought the death penalty, but on April 2, 2012, Saenz was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for the five murders, plus three consecutive 20-year sentences, totalling sixty years, for aggravated assault.
These drugs could have included morphine and suxamethonium chloride as they were found in his locker with fresh and used syringes.
Norris admitted predicting the time of Hall's death to his colleague but said it was because he had a "black sense of humour".
Sentencing On 14 December 2007, Caleffi was sentenced to serve 20 years of imprisonment for five murders and two attempted murders in San Vittore Prison causing anger among the families of the victims.
The FBI obtained a warrant charging Swango with using fraudulent credentials to gain entry to a Veterans Affairs hospital.
Staff were unable to revive her (emergency medications were not used and the defibrillator was not working), and paramedics were unable to revive her after gaining access, in part because they were deceived by staff as to what had happened and the drugs and dosages responsible.
It was soon revealed that several nurses at Drake had raised concerns with administrators upon noticing a spike in deaths while Harvey was employed there, but they had been ordered to keep quiet.
She induced cardiac arrest in patients by injecting their intravenous therapy bags with lethal doses of epinephrine, commonly known as adrenaline, which is an untraceable heart stimulant.
Murders, arrest, and trial From 2017 to 2018, multiple patients experienced unexplained complications after heart surgeries while in recovery.
Despite the fact that his post was in the minor injuries unit at the hospital, he would often leave his post without authority to work in the emergency department.
In some cases, as time goes on, this behavior escalates to encompass the healthy and the easily treated.
See also Serial killers with health related professions List of serial killers by number of victims References External links BBC news entry.
Bertha Alice Williams Graham Gifford (October 30, 1871 – August 20, 1951) was a farmwife in rural Catawissa, Missouri during the early 1900s who was accused of murdering three members of the local community and suspected in 15 additional deaths.
Mays offered no motive but claimed to be taking medication for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
He served his sentence at Indiana State Prison in Michigan City, where he died of heart failure on September 24, 2017.
Since Mays' guilty pleas, the federal government has settled civil lawsuits with the families of 10 victims.
The owner of Atlantic Women's Services, Leroy Brinkley, also owned Delta Clinic of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and facilitated the hiring of staff from there for Gosnell's operation in Philadelphia.
Early life Anna Hahn was the youngest of twelve children though five of her siblings had died by the time Anna was born.
He was also suspected of four attempted murders; a 1-year-old girl on 2 February 2000, an 11-year-old girl on 31 October 2000, a four-year-old boy on 13 November 2000 and a 45-year-old man on 24 November 2000.
There, she confessed to CAMH staff about killing or attempting to kill her patients, leading to CAMH notifying the College of Nurses of Ontario (CNO) and the Toronto Police Service.
Crimes Between 2004 and 2009 Nykopp-Koski worked at a range of hospitals, care homes and patients' homes.
By 2009, it had been taken over by Union Hospital, based in Terre Haute, and renamed Union Hospital Clinton.
Toppan insisted upon her own sanity in court, claiming that she could not be insane if she knew what she was doing and knew that it was wrong, but nonetheless she was declared insane and committed.
Hahn's scandalized family sent her to the United States in 1929, while her son remained with them in Bavaria.
The hospital then claimed that he had “purposely filed a frivolous lawsuit” even though the case had “no merit.” In March 2010, the Lehigh County jury dismissed St.
According to them, there was no feasible evidence demonstrating that Hayato was responsible for the deaths, and it couldn't be ruled out that they were accidents or suicides.
Kareema Cross, who testified at the state trial she had seen at least ten babies breathe after being aborted who were then killed, pleaded guilty to federal drug charges over improper distribution of pain medicine from Gosnell's clinic.
ISBN 978-1443453325 Further reading Bloomfield, Jeffrey: "Gallows Humor: The Alleged Ripper Confession of Dr.
The following year, Barfield was convicted of seven counts of writing bad checks and sentenced to six months in prison, but was released after serving three months.
She was also known as "The Ogress of Colonia Roma," "The Female Ripper of Colonia Roma" and "The Human Crusher of Little Angels." Early life She was born in 1890 in Cerro Azul, Veracruz to a mother who was not affectionate towards her.
However, after Majors began his public relations offensive, several relatives of patients who died at VCH called the state police to report suspicious behavior on Majors's part before their loved ones' deaths.
When evidence was found of Amy sending her patients to the drugstore to buy quantities of arsenic, the police were able to arrest and convict her.
Several of the families sued the owners of Alpine Manor for hiring "dangerous and unbalanced employees".
Both defendants were recent immigrants to the United States, and the trial was marred by accusations of racism.
Their case is featured in the fifth episode, titled "Michigan Wolverines", of the fifth season of the show Deadly Sins.
Crimes The two women met at the Alpine Manor nursing home shortly after Graham had moved to Michigan from Texas.
Rebecca Leighton On 20 July 2011, GMP confirmed that they had arrested a 27-year-old nurse – Rebecca Jane Leighton, who worked at the hospital in wards A1 and A3 – in connection with the murder inquiry.
Irene Becker (born 1952) is a German nurse, and serial killer, who killed at least 5 people by administering them drugs while working at the Charité clinic.
I can only say I’m sorry for the pain I caused them and my family." In addition to her sentence, Mays was ordered to pay $172,624.96 to the victims' families, the VA Hospital, Medicare, and insurance companies.
The chief prosecutor at his trial, Olaf Jakhelln described Nesset as "an ambitious man, who wanted complete control over life and death [of his victims]." Death Nesset died at a nursing home on 2 December 2025, at the age of 89.
Fearing a possible contamination, all IV bags on the building's premises were checked, leading to the discovery that one of the bags administered to 88-year-old Nobuo Yamaki, a patient who had died two days prior had been tampered with.
In a psychiatric hospital in Fleury-les-Aubrais, Petiot was again diagnosed with various mental illnesses but was returned to the front in June 1918.
The details of the murders came almost entirely from accounts to criminal justice authorities by Wood, whose murder charges were reduced by a plea agreement so she could testify against Graham in Graham's trial for first-degree murder.
The first two victims she was charged with murdering were James Bartoe, 55, and Joseph Campbell, 83.
According to the criminal code of the canton of Geneva, the death penalty could be imposed for these crimes.
For his first application his defence team again recruited mathematical experts who stated that a statistical cluster of respiratory arrests was not unusual, but the miscarriage of justice watchdog was likewise unconvinced and rejected his application.
See also List of French serial killers List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
(Strosser, 1975) Investigators found that the nurse Filipina Narciso had been on duty in the relevant ward during every poisoning, and she was identified by a patient as the nurse who had injected something into his IV just before his breathing suddenly stopped.
A neonatal nurse, Fikáčková claimed to have killed at least ten newborns between 1957 and 1960, and was executed by hanging in 1961.
Marie Jeanneret (13 January 1836 – 4 April 1884) was a Swiss serial killer who murdered at least six people.
A few days later, Gerzsány came across Palinkás again, offering to give her a stronger poison for an additional six korona, to which the latter agreed.
See also List of serial killers in the United Kingdom List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
Crucial evidence came from a relative of the victims, who testified that one of the defendants had been in the room and doing something to the bedside equipment just before he suddenly stopped breathing.
In 1989, he was convicted of murdering several of his patients and sentenced to 50-years-to-life in prison.
On her cremation form, Adams stated that "as far as I am aware" he had no pecuniary interest in the death, thereby avoiding the necessity of a post-mortem.
Public opinion controversy France disallows euthanasia, unlike its neighbours, Belgium and the Netherlands.
On 15 May 2008 he was found guilty by judge Valéria Caldi on four counts of murder and four counts of attempted murder.
District Judge Thomas Kleeh had recommended that Mays be placed at Federal Medical Center, Carswell, in Fort Worth, Texas, so that she could receive mental health treatment there; the BOP ultimately assigned her to Aliceville.
During the sentencing, Mays, in tears, gave a brief statement: "There’s no words I can say that can offer the families any comfort.
One man, originally slated to be the lead witness for the prosecution, referred to Perez and Narciso as "slant-eyed bitches" and asserted that there was a nationwide conspiracy of Filipino nurses to murder veterans.
Amy was once again financially secure because during their short marriage her new husband had drawn up a will which left his entire estate to her.
Barfield's execution raised some political controversies when Governor Jim Hunt, who was challenging incumbent Jesse Helms for his U.S.
The reason for the change was, in particular, a forensic and evidence-specific detail: although it was found that Hansen's medical abuse on patients did not occur "in treatment or pain relievers by mistake", the technical evidence was not strong enough to confirm the verdict.
When questioned about the cases Norris said "he seemed to have been unlucky over the last 12 months." The first three incidents occurred at Leeds General Infirmary.
When questioned by police, Nesset initially confessed to the murders of 27 patients, whom he claimed to have killed by injecting them with suxamethonium chloride, a drug to paralyze muscles.
The series is based on the book of the same name written by the Danish journalist Kristian Corfixen.
He supposedly developed secret weapons that killed Germans without leaving forensic evidence, planted booby traps all over Paris, had high-level meetings with Allied commanders, and worked with a (nonexistent) group of Spanish anti-fascists.
The same corroded suction tubing used for abortions was the only tubing available for oral airways if assistance for breathing was needed… [F]etal remains [were] haphazardly stored throughout the clinic– in bags, milk jugs, orange juice cartons, and even in cat-food containers...
Letter confessed to some of the killings but insisted that he had acted out of sympathy and a desire to end the suffering of sick patients.
On May 11, 2021, Mays was sentenced to seven consecutive life sentences, plus 20 years, during a three-hour-long hearing at the United States District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia in Clarksburg by U.S.
According to police, Louay administered anti-coagulants to pro-Coalition forces brought into the hospital for treatment, to excaberate their bleeding and causing a number of deaths.
Semi-conscious women scheduled for abortions were moaning in the waiting room or the recovery room, where they sat on dirty recliners covered with blood-stained blankets.
Career Following his doctoral studies, Fotiadis held research positions at the University of Minnesota, the RWTH Aachen University in Germany, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
In 1999, he won the William Allan Award, the highest honor of the American Society of Human Genetics.
Joseph Stephen Alpert (born 1942 in Connecticut) is an American cardiologist and professor of medicine at the University of Arizona Sarver Heart Center.
He traveled widely in Africa and the Caribbean and held academic appointments at the University of Ibaban, Ibadan, Nigeria, and the University of the West Indies in Kingston, Jamaica.
He returned to England with photographs of the camp that he would keep in his desk drawer as a reminder.
Shikora has also worked on advisory boards for several medical companies including Medtronic and EnteroMedics.
Gillenwater with the support of Hovey Dabney, was responsible for the creation of University of Virginia Health Sciences Foundation, with a significant institutional impact enabling innovation and discovery for clinical practitioners and scientists.
His team pioneered consumer engagement in research by including drug users on research advisory panels and as fieldworkers.
Jennie McCowen (June 15, 1845 – July 28, 1924) was an American physician, writer, and medical journal editor.
Early life and education Brown was born in Grimsby, England and attended Wintringham Grammar School.
One of the leading features of that laboratory was the amount of original work accomplished in structural botany by both teacher and pupils.
5,308,833, 8,404,215, 8,642,012, 9,095,559, 13,610,580,) and international patients with multiple patents pending.
Turner read a paper on “Physical Culture,” before the teachers' institute, February 21, 1885; “Hygiene of Bathing,” Chautauqua assembly, June 24, 1890; “Climacteric Period,” “Epileptic Mania,” “The Tongue in Health and Disease,” and “Mineral Acids,” before the Jasper County Medical Society, 1887–89.
Neufeld remained on the Institute staff as an "honorary member" (Ehrenmitglied) and continued to publish.
After medical training at St George's Hospital he qualified MRCS in 1886 and graduated MB BChir from the University of Cambridge in 1887.
A year before he died, he was interviewed by Todd Dufresne, who found Wortis at age 87 "active, lucid, and intellectually engaging".
S2CID 25114211.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) Bray GA, Popkin BM (2013).
Awards and honors When the New England Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons established the Robert M.
In the United Kingdom, the Health Protection Agency attributed a large measles outbreak in 2008 and 2009 to a concurrent drop in the number of children receiving the MMR vaccine.
Career When Cotton was recruited by Boston University to serve as the first Assistant Provost for Clinical Research and Director of the Office of Clinical Research in 1998, she was recruited from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School.
He is also a Boyd Professor emeritus at the Pennington Center, and a professor of medicine emeritus at the Louisiana State University Medical Center.
He co-edited the Medical Reporter, a journal published by the Chester County Medical Society from 1863 to 1866.
On his graduation from Harvard, in 1872, his thesis on "Anaesthetics" gained him the Boylston Prize.
Leung became the interim director of the School of Public Health, after the former director, Keiji Fukuda, retired in 2021.
Gerald Horner matriculated in October 1899 at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, graduating there B.A.
Previously, she was a professor of pediatrics and immunology and surgery at Stanford University and the medical director of the Pediatric Kidney Transplant Program.
Career In September 1877, she was engaged as instructor in microscopic botany, and placed in charge of a botanical laboratory, which position she held for twelve years.
In 1970, Bray became the director of the Clinical Research Center at the Harbor–UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA.
Her doctoral research on patient-driven rehabilitation following a stroke developed an intervention designed especially for Māori and Pasifika.
He also led the United States Preventive Services Task Force, the National Guideline Clearinghouse, and became an assistant Surgeon General.
In March 2016, he was named as the founding national director of the Integrative Health Coordinating Center at the Veterans Health Administration.
In 2025, she received the Professional Achievement Award from the Alumni Board of the University of Chicago in recognition of her leadership and contributions to academic medicine.
Born in Brooklyn, New York, he was a board-certified anatomic, clinical and forensic pathologist, and a private forensic pathology consultant.
Robert James Nicholl Streeten (born 28 June 1800, London – 10 May 1849, Worcester) was a British physician and medical editor and secretary of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association.
Education He obtained his M.B.B.S degree in 1940; he also obtained an M.D (Pathology) in 1945 from the Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam.
On her paternal grandfather's side, she is a great great great grand daughter of Joseph Jackson Lister, pioneer of the compound microscope and father of Joseph Lister, 1st Baron Lister.
In 1998 he wrote: There are not two kinds of medicine, one conventional and the other unconventional, that can be practiced jointly in a new kind of "integrative medicine." Nor...are there two kinds of thinking, or two ways to find out which treatments work and which do not.
In 2020, the year after he was appointed full professor, he was senior author on the team that published their results on an imaging technique that uses gallium-labelled prostate specific membrane antigen in a PET/CT scanner (PSMA PET-CT), for detecting the early spread of prostate cancer.
Flinn Professor of Medicine and Chair of the Department of Medicine at the University of Arizona College of Medicine.
Delafresnay (dir.) Brain mechanisms and consciousness, a symposium, Springfield, 1954 Neurotic Distortion of the Creative Process, New York : Noonday Press, 1958 « L'hypnotisme.
Contributions to surgery Muguti contributed to the establishment of Zimbabwe's training pathway in plastic and reconstructive surgery.
Dritte, völlig umgearbeitete Auflage [Microorganisms : With special reference to the etiology of infectious diseases.
Nemiah was born on November 30, 1918, in Cheshire, Connecticut, and later on moved with his family to Hanover, New Hampshire, when he was young.
Hubbard Award (National Board of Medical Examiners, US) (2013) References External links Kevin Eva's publications
In the late 1970s, assisting Michael Lockwood who introduced him to Beauchamp and Childress's principles of medical ethics, Gillon taught on the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries' course, DPMSA, on philosophical medical ethics, possibly the first such course in the UK.
Landis served as president of the American Society for Clinical Investigation in 1942 and as president of the American Physiological Society in 1952.
He gained a Bachelor of Science degree in Endocrinology from the Middlesex Hospital Medical School, University of London in 1981.
He is also a professor at the Ochsner Clinical School of the University of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia, and the editor-in-chief of the medical journal Progress in Cardiovascular Diseases.
She became a senior lecturer at the university in 2004, the same year that she received a Medical Research Council clinical fellowship.
Instead he returned home, hoping that it was not caused by SARS and that he could recover without treatment.
He was a book collector and donated more than 200 historical medical books to the University of Chicago Library.
Horner retired in 1946 at age sixty-five and was succeeded as editor-in-chief by Hugh Clegg, CBE, FRCP.
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: Weaver, James Baird (1912).
She has advocated for people to consider gut microbes as a "human microbial organ." Selected publications Gut microbiota: married to our gut microbiota Nature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology.
He is the medical director of cardiac rehabilitation and preventive cardiology at the John Ochsner Heart and Vascular Institute in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Eugenics An outspoken advocate for genetics research to identify and curtail severe inherited diseases and birth defects, Herndon provided genetics counseling to the North Carolina government's eugenics sterilization program that later prompted the governor of North Carolina to apologize for it.
She qualified as a doctor in 1985 at the University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, having studied at Trinity College, Cambridge.
In 1995, he published a study that found that women had the best chance of conceiving a child if they had sex on the day of ovulation, with the odds of conception falling sharply thereafter.
Selected publications Christakis, Dimitri A.; Zimmerman, Frederick J.; DiGiuseppe, David L.; McCarty, Carolyn A.
Professor of Surgery; Director of Pediatric Cardiac Surgery; and Director of The Dana and Albert "Cubby" Broccoli Center for Aortic Diseases , at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, he returned to Hopkins in 2023.
He began working in the field of endocrinology in 1930, and after completing a doctoral thesis in 1933, he became head of the Hormone Department of Statens Serum Institut, a medical research institute.
He expressed repeated dissatisfaction with its operations and public statements, and resigned in 1960.
Cynthia Louise Sears is an American infectious disease physician-scientist specializing in food borne and intestinal infections.
Lustberg is also an associate editor for the peer-reviewed medical journal covering oncology nursing with respect to cancer survivors called Journal of Cancer Survivorship.
Education Lao was first trained in acupuncture at the Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
Research and activism Poland is known for researching the immunogenetics of responses to certain vaccines, including smallpox vaccines.
The Ethics of the Medical Internet Primary source, peer reviewed, exclusively electronic medical journals.
Laura Weiss Roberts (born 1960) is an American psychiatrist and bioethicist who is the Katharine Dexter McCormick and Stanley McCormick Memorial Professor and chair of the department of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stanford University School of Medicine.
He serves as the Executive Director at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rewari and (AIIMS) Jammu.
For most of Herndon's academic career, from 1966 to 1989, he was senior associate dean for research and development at the medical school.
Hamburger received international attention in 1952 after treating Christine Jorgensen, an American transgender woman who wanted a male-to-female sex reassignment.
During Simmons' 25-year term as editor-in-chief and general secretary, the number of JAMA subscribers increased from 1,000 to 80,000.
In 2017-2018, Brown served as the 90th President, and is the current Chief Scientific Officer, of the American Physiological Society.
He is a member of the MGH Executive Committee on Research (ECOR), the central body for research governance at MGH.
Lawrence Oglethorpe Gostin (born October 19, 1949) is an American law professor at Georgetown University Law Center who specializes in global health law as well as the law of public health and human rights.
Superintendent at Butler Hospital In 1899, he accepted the post of Superintendent of the private Butler Hospital in Providence, Rhode Island where he remained until his retirement in 1921.
He returned to the United States and worked as a professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania.
Current work focuses on developing the research needed to advance an endgame for the tobacco epidemic.
She has said that she was impressed by how quickly Singapore responded to SARS-CoV-2, which was likely informed by their experiences with the SARS epidemic years before.
In 2023 she was a visiting researcher at The Brocher Foundation in Switzerland to examine the unintended harms of pandemic publishing, how covid-19 struck a blow to women's expertise, and equity for women in science.
Based on observations of hundreds of patients in Guangdong, Zhong was determined to advocate for the moderate usage of cortisone.
Borel had founded an aid organization called Secours Médical Français ("French Medical Relief") in response to the 1970 Bhola cyclone.
“Behind the mugshot grin: uses of madness-talk in reports of Loughner’s mass killing." Journal of Communication Inquiry 37, no.
Subsequent research in his laboratory demonstrated that FMRP is involved in the regulation of local protein synthesis at the synapse and that in the absence of FMRP, the FMRP-associated mRNAs are over translated, in an activity-dependent manner.
He has contributed key reviews on the “dark side of addiction” in very prominent journals in the field, including Annual Review of Psychology, Nature, Neuron, and Neuropsychopharmacology, and Nature Reviews Drug Discovery.
Among his chief contributions to the medical literature are his "Principles and Practice of Medicine", "Medical Education and Reform", "Verdict of Science Concerning the Effects of Alcohol on Man", and "Clinical Lectures".
His clinical, surgical and scientific main interest centered on hearing, inflammatory ear diseases, cholesteatoma, the facial nerve, equilibrium, and microsurgery of the middle ear.
William Harcourt Ranking (1814 – 4 June 1867) was an English physician, medical editor, and photographer.
“Circulating Urokinase Receptor as a Cause of Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis.” Nature Medicine, vol.
Koob's contributions include scholarly treatises on the conceptual framework and theoretical bases for understanding the neurobiology of drug addiction.
Northway was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 2016 Birthday Honours for services to learning disability nursing.
During the 2002–2004 SARS outbreak, she worked with Postdoctoral fellow Ted Cohen to develop a mathematical model that proved that a number of multidrug-resistant strains of tuberculosis can easily reproduce and spread.
Turpin served one 5-year term on the executive committee of the World Federation of Orthodontists (2010–2015).
He had a sharp eye for the pompous or ridiculous and was encouraged by Thomas Wakley, who had founded the journal in 1823.
Personal life Adler was married to Dame Karen Dunnell from 1979 to 1994, and subsequently to Baroness Margaret Jay from 1994 onwards.
Carl Georg Friedrich Wilhelm Flügge (12 September 1847 – 10 December 1923) was a German bacteriologist and hygienist.
At the conclusion of the 2016–17 academic year, Katz and Jonathan Edmondson were appointed Distinguished Research Professorship for their "outstanding contributions to the University through research".
Honors, awards and positions Rothman received the American Public Health Association’s Abraham Lilienfeld Award for 2002, recognizing excellence in the teaching of epidemiology during the course of a career.
Kligler has researched the effectiveness of multiple alternative medicine treatments, including yoga and acupuncture.
He is an honorary member of the Hungarian Association of Rheumatology, Slovenian National Academy of Sciences and the Royal College of Physicians (UK).
Research Malone is known for researching the activities of the tobacco industry with respect to public health, as well as the social construction of tobacco use.
Romeyn Beck's noted work on medical jurisprudence, and became the standard work on infanticide in the English language.
He was appointed a faculty member at McGill in 1975, and was credited with bringing its Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics to "new, more collegial premises".
Subsequent work involved inherited blood disorders, which he conducted at Walter Reed Army Medical Center 1951 to 1953 during service in the U.S.
She founded the institute for ethics and was named the Jack and Donna Rust Professor of Biomedical Ethics.
Because of this, he was investigated by the United States Senate Subcommittee on Internal Security in 1953.
Her educational opportunities were so limited that up to the age of 21, she had attended school for only two and half years.
He was accused of "glibly glossing over the pain" of cancer, to quote Michael Broderick, one of the 173 respondents on thebmj.com.
Personal life In August 1894, Kinney was confined to the Massachusetts General Hospital for more than three weeks after a critical operation.
Later, Emami and Igor Karp received a research grant to study the link between oral health and colorectal cancer.
He is the Distinguished Professor of Pharmacology and Medicine and one of the co-directors of the UCSD Medical Scientist (MD/PhD) Training Program.
She was one of two founding editors-in-chief of Schizophrenia Research, which she founded with Henry Nasrallah in 1988.
He is recipient of the Russell and Mary Scott Award by the American Urological Association, the Annual Chicago Urological Society, the Charles C.
He serves as Professor of Neurology and Associate Dean at the University of California, San Francisco, Chief of Staff at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of the American Heart Association.
In October 2019, The Board of Directors of the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) announced Menias will be the next editor of RadioGraphics beginning in January 2021.
Cotton also earned a MPH from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health (1986) and a degree in Biology from Brandeis University.
"Addresses Delivered at the Opening of the Pathological Laboratory of the Rhode Island Hospital, 10 May 1900," The Providence Medical Journal (1900): 83-85.
He was a lecturer in the history department of the University of Chicago from 1967 until near the end of the 1980s.
He was then appointed house physician to Hammersmith Hospital, where he worked under Graham Bull on electrolyte metabolism and prototype dialysis machines.
In 2018 he revealed in the Medical Journal of Australia , his findings that three-quarters of men with low-grade prostate cancer who should have been getting regular checks, did not comply with surveillance recommendations.
Born in Cattaraugus, New York, Farrar studied at Allegheny College and Harvard before earning his M.D.
John Angus Walker-Smith (born 1 December 1936) is an Australian-born British emeritus professor of paediatric gastroenterology, formerly at the Royal Free Hospital.
After graduating from university in 1960, Zhong Nanshan had few opportunities to participate in clinical medicine.
Simon Fenton Chapman, AO (born 14 December 1951) is an Australian academic and tobacco control activist.
Between 1957 and 1966 he attended Xavier College, and then studied at Newman College, a residential college of the University of Melbourne.
Fiona Godlee (born August 4, 1961) was editor in chief of The British Medical Journal from March 2005 until 31 December 2021; she was the first female editor appointed in the journal's history.
She is an investigator at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and an expert in immunology and the immunotherapy of both ovarian and breast cancers.
He became a Professor and Director of Educational Research and Scholarship in the UBC Faculty of Medicine in 2010, and is Associate Director and Scientist in the Centre for Health Education Scholarship (CHES).
After the Civil War Logan published works on a variety of subjects - sanitary conditions, climatology, and infectious disease.
Corso is the current president of the European Cancer Prevention Organization and the editor-in-chief of the European Journal of Cancer Prevention.
Mann, Jonathan M.; Gostin, Lawrence; Gruskin, Sofia; Brennan, Troyen; Lazzarini, Zita; Fineberg, Harvey V.
Depressed and disenchanted with her old school when she returned to Australia, she transferred to Narrabundah College in Canberra, where she completed Years 11 and 12.
He has been a member of the American Society for Clinical Investigation since 1998, as well as an elected Fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Shikora completed both his surgical residency and a fellowship in hyperalimentation at the New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts.
In 1939 he was nominated for the Goethe-Medaille für Kunst und Wissenschaft for his scientific achievements, but did not receive the honour until Feb.
Life Pertseva completed a Doctor of Sciences in Medicine with honors at the Dnipro State Medical University in 1975.
They reached this conclusion after analyzing the hospital records of 3,419 children in the United States and Canada from 2000 through 2009 to find that more children than expected survived after prolonged CPR.
He is an adjunct/visiting professor at the Stanford University School of Medicine, participating in collaborative global surgery projects and training programs.
She was a co-founder of both the Schizophrenia International Research Society and the International Society of Psychiatric Genetics, and went on to serve as secretary of both organizations.
Since late 2013, he has been the director of the University of Hong Kong's School of Chinese Medicine, He has also held the Vivian Taam Wong Professorship in Integrative Medicine at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) since 2014.
From 1865 to 1869 he represented the 5th Senate District (Chester, Delaware, and Montgomery counties).
Brody was chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and Dean for Social and Behavioral Studies at the University of Maryland.
He was educated at Cornell University and the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University.
She was a member of the European Association of Science Editors' Gender Policy Committee and the peer review committee in 2017.
Pockets of measles – which can be fatal —have also cropped up in Canada and the United States as a result of parents' decision not to vaccinate.
The eldest of eight (or perhaps nine) children of John Mitchell Streeten and Maria Streeten (née Crane), Robert J.
He then continued his research career as a postdoctoral researcher, first at Temple University and then at Thomas Jefferson University.
He became an assistant professor at Yale in 1982, founding the Developmental Disability Clinic in the same year.
Models developed by Nelson's research group have improved the understanding of mechanisms of this disease, including a role for RNA-binding functions such as TDP-43 and alterations in 5-Hydroxymethylcytosine.
Education Poland received his BA in biology from Illinois Wesleyan University in 1977 where he was a member of Sigma Pi fraternity.
The following year he moved to Australia and took up a consultant post at the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre.
He attended the High School in Edinburgh and then studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh graduating with an MD in 1837, having won the Harveian Prize in 1836 and a gold medal in 1837 for his thesis on the presence of air (oxygen) in the organs of circulation.
He was the oldest of five siblings born to a middle-class Italian family and was the first in his family to go to medical school.
Lundberg's article coincided with President Clinton's impeachment trial during which the question of whether oral sex constitutes “sexual relations” was an issue.
In February 2012, he became editor in chief of Archives of Disease in Childhood, a peer-reviewed paediatric medical journal.
He worked with Koch on studies of tuberculosis and went to Rhodesia with Koch in 1903 to study rinderpest.
At the Savile Club he associated particularly with Edmund Gosse and William Hunt, the historian, and was on dining terms with the leaders of the "æsthetic" literary movement.
Altman was also editor in chief of Trials, a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical Society.
Gender atypicality and sexual development among lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth: prevalence, sex differences, and parental responses.
After graduating, Legido-Quigley started a master's course in social policy at the University of Edinburgh.
This debate also pits traditional individual-based medical ethicists against the utilitarian perspective of the modern bioethics movement.
From 1968 to 1973 he was a secretary to the faculty of medicine, and from 1968 to 1985 he was Psychiatrist-in-Chief at the Beth Israel Hospital.
At the request of the chair of the department, Motulsky established the Division of Medical Genetics in 1957.
After a stage production in Chicago in 1977, John Malkovich encouraged him to join the Steppenwolf Theatre.
Research Spitzer was noted for his research into the potential adverse effects of oral contraceptives.
In 2016, Ahima joined Johns Hopkins University as a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor of Diabetes with appointments in the School of Medicine, School of Nursing, and Bloomberg School of Public Health.
They were from 1935 to 1936 in Madrid, where he studied silver-staining techniques and neuroanatomy under the supervision of Pío del Río-Hortega.
Chenzhong Li (Chinese: 李晨钟) is a Chinese-born Canadian & American biomedical engineer, chemist, inventor, professor, and journal editor.
Education and career Kamhawi received her PhD in Medical Entomology the Salford University in Manchester, England, in 1990, before returning to Jordan to work at Yarmouk University, initially as an assistant professor before becoming an associate professor.
The same year, G20 Health Ministers cited CARB-X as playing a critical role in accelerating antimicrobial R&D and access.
Climate change and health professionals A few days after the worldwide mobilisation promoted by the activist movement Extinction Rebellion, Horton asserted in a video that health professionals should involve themselves directly.
As part of a popular TEDx talk, Christakis spoke regarding the newborn brain and media exposure on children.
He was a researcher at the University of California, San Francisco and the Buck Institute for Age Research.
(April 27, 1941 – June 21, 2018) was an American philosopher, holding doctorates in both philosophy from the University of Texas at Austin and medicine from Tulane University.
She gave birth to their son, Henry William Kennedy Markham, on 26 July 1848 and died on 19 August 1848.
Career Disis is an oncologist and the director of the University of Washington's Cancer Vaccine Institute, Center for Translational Medicine in Women's Health and its Institute of Translational Health Science.
While working as a breast medical oncologist at The James Cancer Hospital in 2011, Lustberg was involved in a clinical trial aimed at finding a better way to assess early cardiac injury.
He established the Center for Neurovirology and Neurodegenerative Disorders at UNMC in 1997, which evolved into UNMC's current Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience in 2004.
He tested the prenatal androgens and found that children later diagnosed as autistic were exposed to elevated levels of prenatal testosterone, and the Δ4 sex steroid precursors to prenatal testosterone.
In 1847, he moved to Putney, London and founded both the London Medical Journal and the Associated Medical Journal.
On May 27, 1950 the Journal of the American Medical Association published the resulting scientific report.
In 2014 he became the director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and continues to hold that position.
{{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) Methods of publishing: the cost of production.
Ahima's research focuses on central and peripheral actions of adipocyte hormones in energy homeostasis, and glucose and lipid metabolism.
He joined the Department of Computer Science at the University of Ioannina as a lecturer in 1995, becoming an assistant professor in 1999 and associate professor in 2002.
This interest led him to co-found the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN) in 2019 with colleagues including Dr Lara Fortunato, Professor Christopher Chambers, Professor Dorothy Bishop, and Professor Malcolm Macleod.
doi:10.1093/jhmas/XXXIV.2.163 Bio, 19th-Century Psychiatrists of Note, www.nlm.nih.gov Obituary, Br Med J.
Clark is committed to gender equality in science, whether that is in medical trials, research groups or scientific publishing.
Career Upon completing his formal education, Nadkarni was offered the director's job at Christiana Hospital's pediatric intensive care unit.
Steers was President of the University of Virginia physician’s practice plan from 2002-2009, and was a member of the Health System Strategic Planning and Executive Committees.
Ronald Melzack, Katz interacted with amputees experiencing phantom pains, which he dubbed "somatosensory pain memories." This sparked his interest in pain research.
Sheen Award by the American College of Surgeons for her advancements in the study and science of medicine.
Poland has also been president of the Armed Forces Epidemiological Board and worked for over ten years as a consultant to the department.
Education and career Professor Bomanji obtained a graduate degree (MBBS) from the University of Punjab (Pakistan) in 1980, and a PhD in 1987.
He became chairman of medicine at University of Virginia School of Medicine in 1939, and professor of physiology at Harvard Medical School in 1943.
Majerus said that the Vietnam War had pushed him toward a career in research; after his residency, he had the choice between going to war as a physician or working for the government in his research position.
Robert Fortescue Fox (1858–1940) was a British physician, surgeon, and one of the founders of physical medicine and rehabilitation.
Publications by Sachs concerning Tay–Sachs disease "On arrested cerebral development, with special reference to its cortical pathology", in: – Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease, Chicago, 1887; 14: 541–553.
From May 1912 to late 1915, Cadbury was the editor of The Chinese Medical Journal (Zhonghua yi bao), a bi-monthly journal consisting of scientific papers, articles on government policy, reports, and more.
In 2001 Volberding left the SF General Hospital to become chief medical officer at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, at which time he also became vice chairman of the department of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF).
John William Israel (4 July 1850 – 30 May 1926) was Commonwealth Auditor-General for the Australian Government between 1902 and 1926.
He was a Labor member for Yerrabi in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly from July 2019 to October 2020.
References Commission report: Eliminating Nuclear Threats – A Practical Agenda for Global Policymakers Nuclear Terms Handbook.
In 1948, when there was a departmental reorganization, his position was reverted to first assistant secretary.
Edgar Charles Johnston, DFC (30 April 1896 – 22 May 1988) was an Australian fighter pilot and ace of the First World War and, later, a leading member in civil aviation in Australia.
Biography Early life and education John Gerald Anderson was born on 12 February 1836 in Orphir, a parish in Orkney, Scotland.
It reported that trends emerging before the pandemic - higher levels of unemployment, poverty and psychological distress - have been amplified and "could fracture Australian society".
However, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd stated that neither he nor his office played any part in Bryce's decision.
The Special Operations Command (SOCOMD) is an Australian Defence Force command that was established on 5 May 2003 to unite all of the Australian Army's special forces units and by 2008 was fully operational.
The Commissioner is appointed by the Australian Government to review employees’ concerns about matters affecting employment, such as recruitment, discipline (misconduct) and performance management, and also provides recruitment and inquiry services to agencies.
Structure The department was an Australian Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Education, Susan Ryan.
The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was an Australian government department that existed between December 1975 and July 1987.
The department's first Minister, Peter Howson, was not keen on the job, reportedly calling the portfolio "trees, boongs and poofters".
Education O'Connell attended Queen's University Belfast, where he studied to attain a Bachelor of Arts (with first class honours) and his doctorate.
It comprised the whole of the cadastral Hundreds of Angas, Anna, Bagot, Forster, Fisher, Jellicoe, Nildottie, Ridley, Skurray, and parts of the Hundreds of Dutton and Bowhill.
On 16 February 2016, the court ruled Canada "did not have to change its laws nor its Constitution for the British royal succession rules to be amended and effective".
The Commissioner of Corrective Services is a statutory office-holder in the State of New South Wales, Australia, with responsibility for the State's prison, parole and community corrections systems.
Preparations for the Duke's visit began in April 1946, when Rockhampton mayor Henry Jeffries announced that the Duke, who was also serving as the 11th Governor-General of Australia, would visit Rockhampton with his wife.
While 45% of companies disclosed how they were prioritising selected SDGs, "very few companies link business goals and targets with the SDGs which makes assessing real progress towards achieving them difficult to determine".
On 27 February 2016, Cobb announced that he was retiring from politics and would not re-contest the Division of Calare in the 2016 Australian federal election.
Due to the state's population growth and growing use of the roads for mining in Australia many more projects are being planned and implemented across Queensland.
He was a member of the Opposition Shadow Ministry from 1992 to 1996, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Social Security in 1996, Assistant Treasurer from 1996 to 2001, and Minister for the Arts and Sport from November 2001 to January 2007.
Eyre Peninsula In 1930, Robert Bedford and other wheatgrowers proposed that the Eyre Peninsula become a separate state from South Australia.
It was set up in 1994 in the then Department of Human Services and Health to give a greater focus on the health needs of Indigenous Australians in mainstream health programs.
Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex-husbands.
Following an amalgamation of departments in 1982, Schubert's responsibilities increased to administrating state affairs in the Premier's Department during a time when the National Party governed Queensland, led by Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen.
Translations included early Russian poets by Rosemary Dobson and David Campbell, Laurence Springarn's translations from Portuguese and Mark Scrivener's translations of German classics.
These constitutions are separate from the Australian Constitution, which governs the federal government of Australia and is also the relevant constitutional document for each of Australia's territories.
The administrative unit does not have jurisdiction over the uninhabited Ashmore and Cartier Islands and Heard Island and McDonald Islands, despite these territories lying within the Indian Ocean.
Divorce No-fault divorce Australia has no-fault divorce with the only ground for divorce being a claim of an irretrievable breakdown of marriage, evidenced by a twelve-month separation.
As a Company Director, Hielscher had considerable experience at Board level and had been associated with a number of public and private sector Boards.
Publication of unredacted version By comparing the redacted and unredacted copies it was possible to identify the censored sections of the report.
Her father arrived in Australia in 1953 to work at the Port Kembla steelworks, and was joined by his future wife six years later.
Statistics At 30 June 2015, there were 243,163 staff (203,348.50 full-time equivalent) employees in 20 Queensland Government departments and 15 other organisations included for statistical purposes.
Henderson was promoted to cabinet in 2001 after Labor won a Territory election for the first time in 2001.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1886 election out of parts of the seats of George Town, Selby and Fingal, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
In 1862 he was employed there as Assistant Emigration Officer and promoted to Emigration Officer in 1863.
The act became law on 14 December 1909, the day after the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 had been passed by the Commonwealth government.
History It was established in 1977 as the District Council of Murray Bridge, with the amalgamation of the Corporate Town of Murray Bridge and the surrounding District Council of Mobilong.
The by-election was triggered by the resignation of CLP Chief Minister Paul Everingham to seek election to the Federal House of Representatives.
This means that whilst one NSW senator represents 682,000 people, one NT senator would represent approximately 21,000 people.
If the application is made by one spouse (called a "sole application"), the divorce documents must be served on the other spouse, at least 28 days before the court hearing if the spouse is in Australia or 42 days if overseas.
He began evacuating women and children in December 1941, following the attack on Pearl Harbor, and in January 1942 sought permission from the Australian government to evacuate all white civilians from the territory.
Critics argued that applying TFES to low-value commodities might discourage the development of better uses for residues, raising concerns about the long-term financial viability of these practices.
Christie commenced his career as cadet engineer with the Department of Railways New South Wales, becoming general manager of operations of the Public Transport Commission in August 1979, then deputy chief executive of the State Rail Authority in July 1980.
He played for the All Australian Universities (1969) and All Australian Amateurs (1970) football teams and was picked in the opening Richmond Australian Football League side of 1972.
The early council meetings were held at a house in the riverside township of Caurnamont until a council chamber was built at Walker's Flat in 1896.
He was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Council and Legislative Council of Papua and New Guinea.
In March 1903 Tait was appointed Chairman of Commissioners of the Victorian Railways, Australia with a salary of £3000 per annum.
The current elected councillors as of November 2022 are as follows: References External links Official website
Arltarlpilta Community came under the Local Government Act on 26 September 1997, combining the Atitjere, Mount Eaglebeak, Foxalls Wells, Irrelirre and Unpayekerke communities.
These proposed colonies were geometric divisions of the continent, and did not take into account soil fertility, aridity or population.
Kalisch apologised on behalf of the Bureau for the outage, stating that the site had been subject to a "malicious" denial-of-service attack and had been taken down to prevent exfiltration of census data.
Galvin joined the Australian Public Service in 1950, with a personnel cadetship that enabled him to obtain an arts degree from the University of Adelaide.
There was a swing against the Liberals of 7.9 points, but Hawke won the seat with 61.6 per cent of the vote on a two-party-preferred basis.
Pearce was elected to the House of Representatives at the 2001 Aston by-election, retaining the seat for the Liberal Party following the death of incumbent MP Peter Nugent.
He continued in the top job when the department was abolished and replaced with the Department of Industry, Technology and Regional Development in March 1993.
In those territories with an Administrator, the Administrator can be considered the indirect representative of the King in the territory.
ROKA soldiers poured through a gap under protective covering fire from Australians who were holding their section of the line despite heavy pressure.
He was wounded in action by enemy shelling in December, but was able to rejoin his unit in Egypt the following month.
After graduating from the University of Sydney with an agricultural science degree, he moved to the Territory of New Guinea in 1936 to become an Agricultural Officer.
It was then recreated ahead of the 1903 election, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
The Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (DAFF) is a department of the Australian Government that was created on 1 July 2022.
History The council was established in 1883 from a western portion of the District Council of Echunga and an eastern portion of the District Council of Mitcham.
The act selected the Yass-Queanbeyan region as the site for Canberra, the new capital city of Australia.
The seat was created ahead of the Assembly's first election held in 1856, and was abolished at the 1903 election, when it was merged with neighbouring Richmond into the new district of Monmouth.
It is modelled on the equivalent commands in the United States and British military forces, and is led by a major general as Special Operations Commander Australia (SOCAUST).
The bill lapsed with the prorogation of Parliament for the 2013 Australian federal election and has not been reintroduced.
The AusInfo letter, said that the "Attorney-General's Department wants all copies recalled" and asked that copies of the report be returned to AusInfo.
References National Archives of Australia Documenting Democracy - Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 Seat of Government Acceptance Act, Austlii
The court may decline to make any orders, leaving the legal and equitable interests of the parties as they were.
Although based in Canberra, the AMC was able to conduct trials anywhere in Australian territories and overseas in operational areas where Australian forces were serving.
He stayed at the Communications Department in the Secretary role as its functions expanded, first becoming the Department of Communications and the Arts in 1994, and later the Department of Communications, Information Technology and the Arts in 1998.
The organisation is owned by the Australian Institute of Petroleum and is financed by nine participating oil companies and other industry-related companies.
This book was shortlisted for the 2014 ACT Book of the Year Award and won the 2014 ACT Writing and Publishing Awards: Poetry Book Category.
The department existed between November 1976 and November 1980, operating under the Fraser government.
A vote of 94 was required, so that if at least 94 of the 95 Labor parliamentarians supported the bills, each would be passed.
The two departments merged in 1921 to form the second Department of Defence, regarded as a separate body.
David Miller (1857 – 1934) was a senior Australian Commonwealth public servant, appointed in the year of Federation to head the Department of Home Affairs.
In Queensland, plurality block voting (also referred to as first-past-the-post by the Electoral Commission) is used.
List of constitutions The following is a list of the current constitutions of the six states of Australia.
Joseph Lyons (1932–1939) Frank Forde (1945); born to Irish Catholic parents, Forde was educated at Christian Brothers' school in Toowoomba.
The electoral district of Brighton was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
He worked as a barrister and solicitor for the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, and as a senior policy adviser and legal officer for the Attorney-General's department, the Department of Transport and Regional Services, and the Australian Antarctic Division.
Originally it was understood by the mainstream population as a need for acceptance that many members of the Australian community originally came from different cultures and still had ties to it.
He gave evidence before a Royal Commission on the migration of troublesome convicts from Western Australia to South Australia, and the effect on the crime rate.
Uses elsewhere The term has been used by various other governments in relation to unconventional circumstances where a head of state is required to make use of reserve powers.
Iran In August 2024, ASIO director Mike Burgess claimed that Iran had been one of "three or four" foreign countries spying on and attempting to intimidate diaspora communities in Australia.
Its primary source information includes legislation, treaties and decisions of courts and tribunals.
In criminal cases the concept is used both as a form of bail when a person has been charged but not tried and also when a person has been found guilty at trial as an incentive not to commit further misconduct.
The prosecutor dropped the charge but proceeded on a charge of sending blasphemous materials through the mail.
The Department of the Arts, Sport, the Environment, Tourism and Territories was an Australian government department that existed between July 1987 and December 1991.
He was Secretary of the Department of Supply and Shipping (1946–1948) and later the Department of Supply (1953–1959).
Miller retired officially from Canberra in his final position as Secretary of the Department of Works and Railways in August 1917.
All other senior RAAF commanders who were veteran pilots of World War I, with the exception of the-then Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Jones, were also dismissed, ostensibly to make way for the advancement of younger officers.
On return to Australia in 1973 he joined the National Pipeline Authority under energy minister Rex Connor.
The authors added that "it is now clear that none of the arguments for retaining a law of blasphemy are sufficiently strong to support this view and each of them is outweighed by other considerations which persuade us that a law of blasphemy is not a necessary part of a criminal code.
They therefore do not bind State parliaments to the same degree that the Commonwealth constitution binds the Australian Government.
Stirling council annexed a northerly-adjacent portion of the District Council of Crafers when it was abolished in 1935, enlarging the council area in a region of high population growth.
He later served as Deputy Mayor from 2022–2023 and again from 2024–2025, before stepping into the role of Acting Mayor between June and September 2025.
David Evans was employed by the office from 1999 to 2005 to conduct carbon accounting and to build models.
It was temporarily abolished at the 1886 election when neighbouring seats absorbed its area and became two-member seats.
EMA is made up of the Crisis Management Branch, Disaster Recovery Branch, and the Disaster Preparedness Branch.
Proposed Changes to the Constituation The proposal was to alter section 51 of the Constitution as follows: Section fifty-one of the Constitution is altered— industry and Commerce.
The administrative head of the department is the Secretary of the Department of Finance, presently Matt Yannopoulos, who reports to the Federal Minister for Finance, presently Senator Katy Gallagher.
History The agency was responsible for administering the Energy Star program in Australia and provided funds for a fuel cell bus trial in Perth.
govdex provides a mechanism for the definition, and on-going development of the meta-data, common data dictionaries, and taxonomies that form the basis of a semantic framework.
In the 2002 Australia Day Honours Christie was made a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) in recognition of his "service to public administration, particularly transport management in New South Wales".
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Services came under fire from the media in 2004 when its benefactor, the CEO of ATSIC, Geoff Clark, faced rape allegations.
Question Do you approve of the proposed law for the alteration of the Constitution entitled 'Constitution Alteration (Industry and Commerce) 1926'?
She holds a Masters in Public Affairs from Princeton University and a Bachelor of Economics from the Australian National University.
The hotline was established following the 2002 Bali bombings, in which 202 people were killed, including 88 Australians.
By 1960, 20,800 km of controlled levelling had been completed with the addition of the Northern Territory and Queensland state authorities.
The website of the Supreme Court of New South Wales describes tipstaff positions as "extremely popular and therefore highly competitive" and that applicants are expected to have "a strong academic record".
In the Turnbull government he was appointed Assistant Minister for Defence from 21 September 2015; and between 18 February 2016 and 20 December 2017, Chester served as the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport following a rearrangement in the First Turnbull Ministry.
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973, which was included despite some uncertainty as to whether the provisions of Section 57 had been met.
Meagher, Gummow & Lehane's Equity: Doctrines and Remedies is a scholarly legal text originally composed by three Australian judges, Roddy Meagher, William Gummow and John Lehane.
Labor leader Kevin Rudd made reference to the phrase and to Menzies in the lead-up to the 2007 federal election for a perceived current generation of "Forgotten People".
He remains a member of the Liberal Party campaign Committee, and a Delegate to the Liberal Party State Council.
The magazine was conceptualised by Grace Perry to be international while maintaining an Australian presence.
Walsh was educated at the Hutchins School, and then attended the University of Tasmania, from which he graduated with degrees in Arts and Law.
The issue was raised again in January 2009, when a private member's bill to amend the Act of Succession was introduced in parliament.
Paul Raymond Henderson (born 15 August 1962) is a former Australian politician who was Chief Minister of the Northern Territory from 2007 to 2012.
The Rural City of Murray Bridge is a local government area of South Australia, centred on the regional city of Murray Bridge and stretching south to Lake Alexandrina.
He later served as director-general of the Department of Public Works, head of the Roads & Traffic Authority, head of transport for the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games, and Co-ordinator General of the state's rail industry before retiring in June 2001.
In 2006, Schubert received an honorary doctorate from James Cook University as recognition for his management of environmental assets in North Queensland.
In October 2006, Cobb sparked controversy after reports that he had allegedly stated at a meeting of disability service advocates that he would "get rid of" a child who had a disability.
She was Counsellor (Public Affairs) for the Public Affairs section of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta at the time of her death.
Despite their Meteors having inferior maneuverability to the Soviet-built MiGs, the Australian pilots managed to score their first victories of the Korean War, for the loss of three aircraft.
Awards While Deputy Secretary of the Defence Production Department in January 1957, Knott was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire.
How do you plead: Representing yourself when charged with drink-driving in New South Wales local courts (with Helen Walsh).
The Scottish Parliament unanimously passed a motion in 1999 calling for the complete removal of any discrimination linked to the monarchy and the repeal of the Act of Settlement.
Born in Melbourne, Canada East, the son of Melbourne McTaggart Tait, Tait entered the service of the Grand Trunk Railway in 1880, and by 1903 he was manager of transportation with Canadian Pacific Railway company.
As of 2026, Australian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 182 countries and territories, ranking the Australian passport 7th in the world according to the Henley Passport Index.
Eligible people, for example those with a disability, can purchase a key that opens all accessible toilets displaying the MLAK symbol.
For supporting incumbent McCormack in the 2021 Nationals leadership spill, Chester was stripped of his ministerial portfolios by new leader Joyce.
Recognition Knibbs was created a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in 1911 and was knighted in 1923.
COMDISPLAN is normally activated when Commonwealth assistance for emergency response or short-term recovery is requested or likely to be requested.
The Incident Response Group had received extensive training to build its capabilities in preparation for the meeting from SOCOMD units and the New Zealand Special Operations Component Command.
Sir Leo had more than fifty years' experience in the areas of government, the banking and finance industry, domestic and global financial markets, superannuation industry and as an independent Company Director.
In July 2013, Bird was appointed as the Minister for Regional Development, the Minister for Regional Communications and the Minister for Road Safety in the Second Rudd Ministry.
Such members ran for office as independents or under a variety of political labels but saw themselves as linked to other candidates by their support for a particular premier or government.
The National Centre for Vocational Education Research (NCVER) is an Australian non-profit that promotes research on the vocational education and training (VET) sector in Australia, and acts as a funding body for research in that field.
The AMOSplan is voluntary mutual aid arrangement where oil company equipment may be shared to best respond to a spill.
His son Tristram and daughters Emily and Fanny and a female relative escaped serious injury, and their maid servant, Miss Chew, sustained a broken arm.
Victoria As a result of the Local Government Act 2020, all rural-based councils in Victoria now have the option to become undivided or have equal-sized multi-member wards.
COAG differed from the United States' National Governors Association or Canada's Council of the Federation, because these bodies only include state/provincial representatives, whereas COAG also included federal and local representatives.
The second series was also filmed in Sydney with some scenes filmed in Canberra, and aired on the 12th of June 2023 on ABC Me and ABC iview.
He submitted the Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Transport to and from Tasmania in 1976, and it became known as the Nimmo Report.
The Department of Workplace Relations and Small Business was an Australian government department that existed between July 1997 and October 1998.
Qualification is based on terms (geographical location) set by the Exceptional Circumstances Relief Payments program.
Establishment The Australian Military Court was created when the Parliament of Australia passed the Defence Legislation Amendment Bill 2006, adding Section 114 to the Defence Force Discipline Act 1982, and commenced on 1 October 2007.
See also Federal Register of Legislation (Australian Government's online register of federal legislation) Free Access to Law Movement Legal Information Institute References External links Australasian Legal Information Institute
See also Translink Transport in Brisbane References External links Department of Transport and Main Roads
Prior to 2009 and since 2024, the Commissioner managed their own Department of Corrective Services, known from 1 October 2024 as Corrective Services NSW.
Philipp, Notes on the Study of Australian Colonial Architecture, "Historical Studies – Australia and New Zealand", Vol.
The long-term strategy of the Office was to improve the access of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples to comprehensive primary health care services.
The term is commonly used in Australia, where it has been applied in various contexts, most recognizably in relation to special consideration policies for students and drought relief payments for farmers known as Exceptional Circumstances Relief Payments or ECRP.
On 13 February 1990, Headquarters Special Forces was established, which was renamed in 1997 to Headquarters Special Operations and in 2003 to Special Operations Headquarters or SOCOMD.
As of 2014 the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) has been responsible for Australia's official development assistance (foreign aid) to developing countries.
The seat was created ahead of the Assembly's first election held in 1856, and was abolished at the 1903 election, when it was merged with the neighbouring seats of Campbell Town and the northern part of Glamorgan into the new district of Cambria.
The department was established on 1 July 2022, superseding the water and environment functions from the Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment and energy functions from the Department of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources.
It was established on 25 May 1876 as the Corporate Town of Mount Gambier, and became the City of Mount Gambier when it gained city status in 1955.
The Hawke government was the last Australian Government to operate within the international climate of the Cold War, which came to a conclusion in the aftermath of the 1989 Fall of the Berlin Wall.
It found that, as the Act of Settlement is part of the Canadian constitution, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, as another part of the same constitution, does not have supremacy over it.
She has also served on the Australian Commission for Law Enforcement Integrity since 2016, and the Law Enforcement Committee since 2019.
Refugee intake In 2015 Laundy was shown photographs of a dead Syrian toddler fleeing the Syrian civil war by his daughter at the dinner table, which brought him and the rest of his family to tears.
In December 2024, Pitt announced he would be quitting parliament, criticising party leader David Littleproud for being "too obedient" to the Liberal Party.
Canada In Canada, the Chief Justice has a dormant commission to act as Administrator of the Government of Canada in the absence of the Governor General of Canada.
History It was established on 1 November 1997 with the amalgamation of the City of Kensington and Norwood, the City of Payneham and the Town of St Peters.
He played for Toowong in Brisbane district cricket and in 1903 he scored 233 for the club against South Brisbane, setting the record highest individual score in Queensland district cricket.
Clement Wilks (15 February 1819 – 2 May 1871) was a civil engineer and architect in colonial Victoria, Australia.
The Petrovs had been sent to the Canberra embassy in 1951 by the Soviet security chief, Lavrentiy Beria.
On 1 July 2008, the community was merged into the Central Desert Shire, although the Community Government Council remained in existence as a Local Board, which meets at Atitjere.
His residency was the first permanent building in Canberra and he was responsible for conducting an international design competition for establishing the national capital.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Prime Minister of Australia of the day, John Gorton.
In June 2021, the Australian and UK governments announced that their reciprocal working holiday scheme would soon be expanded to allow citizens of both countries aged 18 to 35 live and work in the other country for up to three years.
McBurney was named the All Australian Umpire for the 2003 and 2007 seasons and umpired the AFL Grand Final in 2002, 2003, 2007 and 2009.
Elizabeth Josephine "Liz" O'Neill (19 March 1969 – 7 March 2007) was an Australian public servant and diplomat.
Assessment and ratings Under the NQF, regulatory authorities conduct assessments of approved education and care services against the criteria.
Over the years, differences of application have emerged in Australia's tests for causation, duty of care, calculation of damages, amongst other areas.
Makassan trepangers (along with shipwrecked Dutch sailors) made contact with Indigenous Australians along the northern coast of Australia during the 17th and mid-18th centuries, although this did not lead to permanent settlement.
List of ministers for health 1 Ministerial role expanded on 19 October 2000 to include Housing, as well as Health and Community Care.
In Australian local government, an undivided council (also referred to as unsubdivided, a single ward or an at-large ward) is a council that does not have any wards, meaning all councillors are elected in a single area representing the entire local government area (LGA).
History The council was established on 27 April 1854, bringing local government to the western half of the Hundred of Munno Para, the District Council of Munno Para East having been formed the year before.
He later attended the University of Queensland, where he earned a BA in 1966 and an LLB(Hons) in 1969, and the London School of Economics, where he earned an LLM in 1979.
The Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme is an Australian Government scheme to provide financial assistance to shippers of freight between Tasmania and mainland Australia.
History Farquhar was born on Lefevre Peninsula the eldest son of (ship's) Captain Allan Farquhar (c.
At the end of his term in November 1968, when he had been already appointed to head the Postmaster-General's Department starting the following month, Knott attended the UN World Space Conference in Vienna.
Its population centre was the town of Sorell east of Tasmania's capital, Hobart, and included the Tasman Peninsula.
It split the preceding Department of Education, Skills and Employment into the newly formed Department of Education and Department of Employment and Workplace Relations.
(Listed on the National Trust of Australia (Victoria) Register: B6439 and on the Register of the National Estate: Place 102643).
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1886 election, largely replacing the seat of Norfolk Plains, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
The creation of the department, with a Darwin-based Secretary, was seen by many as an effort to undermine the role of the Northern Territory Administrator.
Australia in the War of 1939–1945: Series Three (Air) Volume I – Royal Australian Air Force 1939–1942.
The Transforming Australia: SDG Progress Report - Update 2020 included an evaluation of the effects of COVID-19 on Australia's capacity to achieve the SDGs.
Seselja was previously a member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly from 2004 to 2013, and served as leader of the Canberra Liberals and Leader of the Opposition from 2007 to 2013.
In 1935 the council was abolished with the southern part of the Hundred of Bowhill annexed by District Council of Karoonda and the remainder amalgamated with the District Council of Angas to form the new District Council of Marne.
According to the OECD, the percentage of Australians living in poverty fell during the Hawke government's time in office, from 11.6% of the population in 1985–86 to 9.3% in 1989–90.
Private life On 17 April 1873, Anderson married Edith Sarah, daughter of William Wood, reader at the Queensland Government Printing Office.
Ministries of the Welsh Government See also List of British governments List of Northern Ireland Executives List of Scottish governments
After the war, his father handed over to him all his land, and Ormsby-Gore farmed the 400 acres (1.6 km2) of the Woodhill Estate, Oswestry, Shropshire.
Eventually, the Unionist government would falter after Chamberlain proposed his scheme for tariff reform, whose partial embrace by Balfour led to the resignation of the more orthodox free traders in the Cabinet.
Cabinet December 1834 – April 1835 List of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
After Nottingham's resignation in 1704, Godolphin and Marlborough turned for support to the "Country" Whigs, led by Speaker Robert Harley.
The Attlee government increased pensions and other benefits, with pensions raised to become more of a living income than they had ever been.
The Ministry relied on Independent and Labour support, and the former Ministerial faction opposing them gradually dissolved with members either associating with the new Government or sitting as independents.
Appointment Cabinet Deputy ministers See also Shadow Cabinet (Wales) Members of the 5th Senedd 2018 Welsh Labour leadership election 2021 Senedd election == References ==
Labour would soon ascend in the opinion polls, and the next few years brought a string of heavy defeats for the Conservatives in local council elections and parliamentary by-elections, with both Labour and the Liberal Democrats benefiting at their expense.
On 21 November 1901, following a failed attempt by Frederick Henry Piesse to form a ministry, the First Leake Ministry officially resigned and was followed by the Morgans Ministry led by Alf Morgans.
Prior to the election Cameron had led his first ministry, the Cameron–Clegg coalition, a coalition government that consisted of members of the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, with Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg as deputy prime minister.
The 1987 general election was as disappointing for the Alliance as the 1983 election and it lost one seat.
He helped to found the Camberwell Trades and Labour Council in 1913, and later became honorary Secretary of the Dulwich branch of the Independent Labour Party (ILP).
The First Commissioner of Woods and Forests, Lord Lincoln, enters the Cabinet, while Sir Edward Knatchbull, the Paymaster, leaves it.
January 2001 – Peter Mandelson is dismissed as Northern Ireland Secretary and is succeeded by John Reid.
No longer eligible to sit as a crossbencher, Owen now sits in the House of Lords as an "Independent Social Democrat".
David Lloyd George had been expected to join the government after recovering from surgery following an operation on his prostate as he was still the official leader of the Liberal party.
Initially, the government was a continuation of the previous coalition administration but lost three Peelites (William Ewart Gladstone, Sir James Graham and Sidney Herbert) within a few weeks.
The proposal did not pass, but caused tensions within the coalition which contained both proponents and opponents of political reform.
Junior Ministers Scottish Law Officers See also Premiership of Nicola Sturgeon Notes == References ==
Despite this, Tory support in the opinion polls remained relatively strong, with any Labour lead now being by the narrowest of margins, although Labour still made some gains at the expense of the Tories in local elections, and seized the Monmouth seat from the Tories in a by-election.
July 1801 – The William Cavendish-Bentinck, Duke of Portland succeeds John Pitt, Earl of Chatham as Lord President (Chatham remains Master of the Ordnance).
The Liberal government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in 1905 and ended in 1915 consisted of four ministries: the first led by Henry Campbell-Bannerman (from 1905 to 1908) and the final three by H.
This equal mix would prove difficult for the ministry, however, as strong debates occurred over the Security of the Succession, etc.
He worked as Political Secretary of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of India from 1926 to 1929, then he became a barrister-at-law at the Inner Temple in 1931.
Ministry See also 1734 British general election 1741 British general election 1742 vote of no confidence in the Walpole ministry Notes References == Further reading ==
The Irish Church The principal issue of the 1868 parliamentary session was the Irish question, manifested this time in the debate over the Anglican Church of Ireland.
Public expenditure as a share of GDP increased at around 1.5 per cent per year during the 1979–1983 period, despite the target being a reduction of one per cent, per year.
October 1927 – Lord Cushendun succeeded Lord Cecil of Chelwood as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster March 1928 – Lord Hailsham (former Sir D.
Under the Supplementary Benefit Act 1966, an owner occupier on benefits was entitled to an allowance for repairs, insurance, rates, and "reasonable" interest charges on a mortgage.
Arthur Hugh Elsdale Molson, Baron Molson, PC (29 June 1903 – 13 October 1991) was a British Conservative politician and member of the Molson family of Montreal.
February 1888 – Sir Michael Hicks Beach succeeds Lord Stanley of Preston as President of the Board of Trade.
References External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by William Adamson Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs
The Lid Lifts: An Account of the Author's Experiences During Two Visits to Occupied Germany in the Spring of 1945.
Palmerston was heavily criticised by Parliament in 1857 over the conduct of the Second Opium War and called a dissolution, but the nation voiced its support in the resulting general election and he returned with a Whig majority.
The Conservative government under Benjamin Disraeli had been defeated at the 1868 general election, so in December 1868 the victorious William Ewart Gladstone formed his first government.
See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1761 British general election Great Britain in the Seven Years' War Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
As Scottish Secretary, he presided over the last execution in Scotland when Henry John Burnett was hanged at Craiginches Prison in Aberdeen on the morning of 15 August 1963 by the hangman Harry Allen for the murder of merchant seaman Thomas Guyan.
It was formed during the 9th Parliament, after Premier James Dunsmuir resigned and named Prior as his successor.
It succeeded the Daglish Ministry on 25 August 1905 after the previous Labor minority administration fell on a vote of no confidence.
The deal also saw the Conservatives drop their 2017 manifesto commitments to pension and winter fuel allowance changes.
Notable quotations "I will look at any additional evidence to confirm the opinion to which I have already come." Arms See also Canadian peers and baronets References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Hugh Molson
The post was filled by the then Solicitor General, Colin Boyd, who was in turn replaced by Neil Davidson.
Baroness Scotland of Asthal and Lord Malloch-Brown were given the right to attend Cabinet as Attorney General and Africa, Asia and UN Minister.
Noble was the youngest son of Sir John Noble, 1st Baronet, and the grandson of Sir Andrew Noble, 1st Baronet, and was educated at Eton College and Magdalen College, Oxford.
He broadcast about the liberation of the German concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen, and wrote a book on the subject called The Lid Lifts.
He was almost a resident at the White House, being more a friend of the family than a mere ambassador.
Richard Simpson resigned from his post as Deputy Justice Minister on 26 November 2002, and was replaced by Hugh Henry.
Parliamentary Private Secretary Sir Alec Douglas-Home, who became Prime Minister in October 1963, choose Pearson to be his Parliamentary Private Secretary, an unpaid but pivotal role where Pearson had to maintain relations between the Prime Minister and his own backbenchers.
The second McConnell government (20 May 2003 – 16 May 2007) was formed following the 2003 general election to the 2nd Scottish Parliament.
The office of Prime Minister Lord Salisbury was the second and last person to be head of government while not simultaneously holding the title of First Lord of the Treasury.
The Michael administration was formed by Alun Michael following the 1999 National Assembly for Wales election and was a Labour minority administration.
Farron confirmed this stance on 9 June 2017, the day after the 2017 general election, which resulted in the Conservatives losing their majority.
His successor in the office is not a Cabinet member Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
Alun Davies was sacked from the government on 8 July 2014, his responsibilities were temporarily restructured with some going to Rebecca Evans who joined the government as a junior minister.
On his retirement from the cabinet in 1968, he was appointed a Member of the Order of the Companions of Honour.
See also History of the United Kingdom during the First World War § Lloyd George as Prime Minister References Further reading Burk.
On 3 May 1974 Noble was elevated with a life peerage as Baron Glenkinglas, of Cairndow in the County of Argyll.
Conservative MPs elected Chancellor of the Exchequer, John Major as their new leader on 27 November 1990, and he was invited by the Queen to form a majority government the following day.
Cabinet May 2011 to September 2012 September 2012 to November 2014 Junior ministers Scottish law officers == References ==
It was agreed that Parliament would be dissolved on 15 June and the election would be held on 5 July.
Harold Wilson and Europe: Pursuing Britain's Membership of the European Community (IB Tauris, 2007).
As a result, he suddenly and unexpectedly inherited the family peerages and estates, except for the Lordship of Nairne, which under Scottish law went to the 7th Marquess's sister Katherine Evelyn Constance Bigham (1912–1995).
A Companion to Early Twentieth-Century Britain (Blackwell, 2003); 32 essays by experts, on 1900–1939, with emphasis on historiography.
She also appointed Vikki Howells as Minister for Further and Higher Education, and added Culture and Skills to Jack Sargeant's portfolios, alongside Social Partnership.
Peel was in Sardinia at the time, so the Duke of Wellington took control of the government in a caretaker capacity until Peel returned and was able to form his government on 10 December.
In late 1981, the SDP formed the SDP–Liberal Alliance with the Liberal Party to strengthen both parties' chances in the UK's "first past the post" electoral system.
Cabinet December 1868 – February 1874 Notes † The Earl de Grey was created the Marquess of Ripon in 1871.
Notes Other uses of the term The term has since been used in politics to describe an administration with members from more than one party or even a non-coalition government that enjoys cross-party support due to gifted and/or non-partisan members.
In return, they (and the wives of male contributors) were eligible for flat-rate pensions, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, and funeral benefit.
Cabinet Junior ministers Retirement of Rhodri Morgan See also Members of the 3rd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
The Baldwin Age (1960), essays by scholars 252 pages; online Archived 10 October 2019 at the Wayback Machine Smart, Nick.
Michael German, Deputy First Minister and Minister for Rural Affairs and Wales Abroad June 2002 to May 2003.
Victor Alexander George Anthony Warrender, 1st Baron Bruntisfield, (23 June 1899 – 14 January 1993), known as Sir Victor Warrender, Bt, between 1917 and 1942, was a British Conservative politician.
Two years previously, Lord Hyde (later Earl of Clarendon) had been appointed Lord Chancellor, and in 1660, he was joined by several other powerful statesmen, including the heir presumptive of the English throne, the Duke of York.
On 4 January 1687 James II dismissed Rochester and his brother the Earl of Clarendon, replacing both with Catholic appointees, Lord Belasyse (aged 72) and Lord Arundell (aged 79).
He could not continue as Leader of the House of Lords, having ceased to be a member of it, but was made Minister for Education in April 1964.
It was led by the two Pelham brothers in Parliament, Prime Minister Henry Pelham in the House of Commons and Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle in the House of Lords.
Background and education Dundee was the elder son of Colonel Henry Scrymgeour-Wedderburn, de jure 10th Earl of Dundee, and Edith, daughter of John Moffat.
In the Conservative–Liberal Democrat coalition agreement of 11 May 2010, the two parties formed a coalition government.
In 1900 he joined the 1st London Rifle Volunteers (territorial army) as a major, rising to the rank of colonel and commanding officer.
The agreement will see both parties pledge for a second referendum on Scottish independence, an increase investment in active travel and public transport, enhancing tenants rights, a ten-year £500m Just Transition and establishing a National Care Service.
However, following her death, Bedford married Jacquetta of Luxembourg, which the Duke of Burgundy disapproved of and Burgundy made peace with France.
Ashdown, a strong proponent of a Lib–Lab coalition, said that from Blair's point of view, in order to get the Conservatives out of power and because he wanted to move his party towards the New Labour ideal, a coalition would strengthen his majority in the likely event of a victory.
The government included several men from the previous administration, but four of the most important, Lords Dudley and Palmerston and Messrs Huskisson and Grant, resigned in May 1828.
The chancellor served as Keeper of the Great Seal, presided over the Privy Council and Parliament, and led the High Court of Chancery.
Samuel George Mercer Nairne (born 1976); married Claire Aussudre, and has two sons (born 2009 and 2011) and one daughter.
History Formation of government In the May 2016 Scottish Parliament election, the Scottish National Party (SNP) won 63 of the 129 seats contested.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
April 1939 – Leslie Burgin becomes Minister without Portfolio pending the legislation to create the Ministry of Supply.
He served as Secretary of State for War from 1951 to 1956 and as Minister of Defence (with a seat in the cabinet) from 1956 to 1957, in the administrations of Winston Churchill and Anthony Eden.
The Ulster Unionist Party (UUP), Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) and Alliance Party of Northern Ireland returned to the Executive, having been absent since 2016; Alliance's Naomi Long obtained the cross-community vote to become Minister for Justice.
This Ministry ran until Morgan formed a coalition government with the Liberal Democrats in October 2000.
The ministry was replaced by the Reid ministry on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
He was the first Tory prime minister since the Harley ministry during 1710–1714 though his ministry was largely made up of Whigs.
Mark Harper replaced Gove as Chief Whip, whilst Matthew Hancock became the new Minister for the Cabinet Office, being replaced by Anna Soubry as Minister of State for Small Business, Industry and Enterprise.
He supervised 50,000 employees and over a thousand local offices where people could obtain ration cards.
While the term was in common parlance in the 19th and early 20th centuries, it has become rarer, except in official and academic uses.
Unemployment rose significantly, but when Wilson called a general election for June 1970, the opinion polls all pointed towards a third successive Labour victory.
He is succeeded at the Board of Trade by William Huskisson 1823 – Lord Maryborough, the Master of the Mint, leaves the Cabinet.
Edward Heath of the Conservative Party formed the Heath ministry and was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by Queen Elizabeth II on 19 June 1970, following the general election of the previous day.
On 30 July 1954, he was created Baron Glassary, of Glassary in the County of Argyll, in the Peerage of the United Kingdom, giving him an automatic seat in the House of Lords (not guaranteed by his Scottish peerages).
The Labour Party chose to go into minority government, and Rhodri Morgan was re-elected first minister on 26 May 2007.
Five more of the original Alliance Government MPs have announced they would not be seeking reelection.
This is a list of all Welsh Government ministerial teams which have existed since the introduction of devolution for Wales in 1999.
The Walpole ministry was led by Whig Prime Minister Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford, from 1730 to 1742—when Walpole left the government.
He served as Northern Secretary throughout until his resignation, having been the mainstay of whom the respective prime ministers were dependent for support.
The government was also supported by the sole Welsh Liberal Democrat MS Kirsty Williams and the independent MS Dafydd Elis-Thomas.
The union strikes affected Britain during the Winter of Discontent (1978–1979) as public services ground to a halt.
Incumbent First Minister Nicola Sturgeon soon afterwards announced her intention to form a minority government.
Creech Jones took over at a time when the tensions in Palestine were increasing, and he frequently appealed to moderate Jewish leaders to restrain the more violent.
Cabinet Changes May 2002 – Stephen Byers resigns and the Department of Transport, Local Government & the Regions is broken up.
Edward Heath, the Conservative Prime Minister, attempted to negotiate a coalition agreement with the Liberal Party, but resigned as prime minister after failing to do so.
His successor at the ensuing byelection was Norman Lamont, the future Chancellor of the Exchequer under John Major.
Smethwick had been a focus of immigration from the Commonwealth but the economic and industrial growth of the years following the Second World War were coupled with local factory closures, an ageing population and a lack of modern housing.
4th Executive of Northern Ireland See also List of Northern Ireland Executives Members of the Northern Ireland Assembly elected in 2016 == References ==
In 1931, the situation deteriorated and there was much fear that the budget was unbalanced, which was borne out by the independent May Report which triggered a confidence crisis and a run on the pound.
The Rule of Democracy, 1905–1914 (vol 6 of "History of the English People, 1905–1914") (1934); online Hay, James Roy.
August 1877: George Ward Hunt dies and is succeeded as First Lord of the Admiralty by William Henry Smith.
The Foxites allied with the supporters of Lord North to bring down the government, and the Fox–North coalition came to power in April 1783.
Both parties' ministers shared collective responsibility for the government's positions, although the coalition agreement detailed several issues on which the parties agreed to differ; the Liberal Democrats abstained from voting in such cases.
History Formation The Duke of Wellington finally came to power after the abortive attempt at a Canningite-Whig coalition government came to an end with Viscount Goderich's resignation in January 1828.
"MacDonald's Parties: The Labour Party and the 'Aristocratic Embrace' 1922–31," Twentieth Century British History (2007) 18#1 pp 1–53.
2 Richard Pennefather had served as Attorney-General since 27 October 1897 as part of the Forrest Ministry.
The second Stanhope–Sunderland ministry (1718–1721) was a continuation of the British Whig government headed by Charles Spencer, 3rd Earl of Sunderland and James Stanhope, 1st Earl Stanhope.
Subsequently, two Liberal ministers, Alec Glassey and John Pybus, defected to the Liberal Nationals.
July 1865 – Robert Rolfe, 1st Baron Cranworth succeeds Lord Westbury as Lord Chancellor The Earl Russell's Cabinet, October 1865 – June 1866 Changes February 1866: The Lord de Grey succeeds Sir Charles Wood as Secretary for India.
In 1937, Irvine stood as a Liberal candidate at Bethnal Green North East in the London County Council elections.
This article details the third Thatcher ministry which she led at the invitation of Queen Elizabeth II from 1987 to 1990.
The money lent under the Advances to Workers Act 1906 led to the construction of 9,675 houses by 1919.
Sir Arthur James Irvine, QC PC (14 July 1909 – 15 December 1978) was a British barrister and politician.
Lauderdale retained his position and his relatively autonomous power in Scotland, becoming an enemy of Shaftesbury.
The National Insurance (Unemployment and Sickness Benefit) Amendment Regulations 1966 provided that where a person's employment has been terminated, payments from the employer (other than wages in lieu of notice) do not affect entitlement to unemployment benefit.
Joe FitzPatrick's local government position was abolished, and he therefore departed government along with Equalities Minister Emma Roddick and Parliamentary Business Minister George Adam.
It is also the last time in Canadian political history that a lieutenant governor dismissed a premier.
Intensive talks resumed in December 2019 following the 2019 UK General Election with a new deadline of 13 January 2020 for fresh assembly elections set by Secretary of State Julian Smith.
This was the first time a deputy first minister had been appointed to the Welsh Government since Ieuan Wyn Jones in 2007.
Only four members of the Cabinet (Derby himself, St Leonards, Lonsdale, and Herries) were existing Privy Councillors and many others were complete political unknowns.
Senior ministers in the cabinet were once again named "cabinet secretaries" with junior ministers referred to as "ministers", as they were in Carwyn Jones's third government.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
In later life, Molson was Chairman (1968–71) and President (1971–80) of the Council for the Protection of Rural England.
He is also said to be the first politician Margaret Thatcher looked up to before beginning her career in politics.
December 1933 – Stanley Baldwin ceases to be Lord Privy Seal, and his successor in that office is not in the cabinet.
Membership Shown here is a table showing the main membership of the Danby Ministry for its duration.
In popular culture Ormsby-Gore was portrayed by Peter Donat in the 1974 television play The Missiles of October, which was about the October 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis.
Living conditions were poor; instead of expansion, the country's task was to replace the national wealth destroyed or used up during the war.
Keith, British Historical Facts 1830–1900 External links "Lord Derby looses bigotry on the streets".
Lady Georgina Elizabeth Petty-Fitzmaurice (1950–2022); married Guy Hamilton in 1974 (divorced 1980), and married Robert Eric Miller in 1981 (divorced 1990).
Returning to Downing Street, MacDonald attended what would be the Labour cabinet’s last meeting, informing members of what had been discussed.
The nominal head of the ministry was Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, until his death in 1743.
References Times Guide to the House of Commons 1979 External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Joseph Godber Portraits of Joseph Godber at the National Portrait Gallery, London
On 25 August 1905, the Governor, Admiral Sir Frederick Bedford, designated 6 principal executive offices of the Government under section 43(2) of the Constitution Acts Amendment Act 1899.
Leading members See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1757 in Great Britain Notes References Works cited == Further reading ==
On 6 April 1757, following Pitt's opposition to the execution of Admiral John Byng, the King (who distrusted Pitt) dismissed him and his brother-in-law Lord Temple, who had been First Lord of the Admiralty.
Two members of the National Assembly were elected to the UK Parliament at the 2005 UK general election (David Davies and Peter Law) reducing the collective strength of the opposition for day-to-day business.
This is a list of the principal Ministers of the Crown of the Kingdom of England, and then of the Kingdom of Great Britain, from May 1702, at the beginning of the reign of Queen Anne.
The Conservative Government of the United Kingdom that began in 1922 and ended in 1924 consisted of two ministries: the Law ministry (from 1922 to 1923) and then the first Baldwin ministry (from 1923 onwards).
The Labour Party in Scotland was defeated by the SNP with the SNP winning 47 seats to Labour's 46, leaving the SNP short of an overall majority in the Parliament.
It was led by William Ewart Gladstone of the Liberal Party upon his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by Queen Victoria.
He was swiftly named as an Assistant Government Whip (1960) and became a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury (Government Whip) in March 1962.
April 1882: Earl Spencer becomes Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, but retains his seat in the cabinet and his position as Lord President.
A new coalition government (the coalition used the term government rather than administration; officially referred to as the Coalition Partnership) was officially announced on 5 October 2000 with policy details emerging the day later.
Military career A career soldier, Head was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 15th/19th The King's Royal Hussars on 30 August 1926.
Charles Townshend, 2nd Viscount Townshend, was appointed Secretary of State for the Northern Department by George I of Great Britain in September 1714.
Rosen, Greg (ed.) Dictionary of Labour Biography, London: Politicos Publishing 2001; ISBN 978-1-902301-18-1 Shepherd, John.
It succeeded the First Leake Ministry on 21 November 1901, and was followed by the Second Leake Ministry on 23 December 1901.
They had three children: John Warrender, 2nd Baron Bruntisfield (7 February 1921 – 14 July 2007) Simon George Warrender (11 August 1922 – 8 May 2011), married Pamela Myer – built Bruntisfield House Melbourne and had issue – Edwina Jane Maitland (11 Dec.
Henry Goulburn was Chancellor of the Exchequer, the future Prime Minister Lord Aberdeen Foreign Secretary and Sir James Graham Home Secretary.
On 29 June 2017, the DUP and Sinn Féin had both announced that they had not come to an agreement to form the next Northern Ireland Executive.
The Rockingham Whigs had generally been sympathetic to the cause of the Colonists and under Rockingham the British government began the negotiations leading to the Peace of Paris that concluded the war.
Supporting these peers were two unofficial whips in the House of Lords: the earls of Sunderland and Portland.
Former Commons Chief Whip Jacqui Smith was given a substantial promotion as the first female Home Secretary and was replaced by Geoff Hoon, who was promoted from being the Europe Minister.
The ministry is chiefly remembered for Gladstone's first attempt to introduce the Home Rule Bill for Ireland.
Following the vote to leave at the EU referendum on the morning of 24 June, Cameron said that he would resign as prime minister after a new Leader of the Conservative Party was chosen after the party conference in the autumn.
According to Alistair Cooke, Baron Lexden, a Conservative member of the House of Lords, Nicholls had an affair with the Russian spy John Vassall.
History Following the split in the Tory Party over the Corn Laws in 1846 and the consequent end of Sir Robert Peel's second government, the Whigs came to power under Lord John Russell.
Sir Robert Peel's first government succeeded the caretaker ministry of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington.
The Reid ministry succeeded the Watson ministry, which dissolved on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support and Chris Watson was forced to resign.
However, it only lasted two days, collapsing on 12 February (even before all the ministers could be appointed), and Pelham was reappointed by George II to resume the Broad Bottom ministry on 14 February.
However Russia's ambassador Semyon Vorontsov organised Pitt's enemies and launched a public opinion campaign.
After the official Liberal Party withdrew from the latter government in 1933, another faction, the National Liberals, remained in coalition with the Conservatives.
Cabinet Changes January 1887 a Liberal Unionist, George Goschen, joined the ministry, succeeding Churchill as Chancellor of the Exchequer.[C.
The Conservative government of the United Kingdom that began in 1957 and ended in 1964 consisted of three ministries: the first Macmillan ministry, second Macmillan ministry, and then the Douglas-Home ministry.
Notably for the first time in the assembly's history, parties entitled to seats on the executive could instead opt to go into formal opposition.
References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities Notes
When this led to an attempt to replace the conciliatory Southern Secretary, Lord Shelburne, Chatham finally roused himself enough to resign from his position as Lord Privy Seal, leaving Grafton as the nominal as well as real head of a ministry in which the Bedford faction was now stronger than ever.
History The Whig elite rose to government ascendancy while Lord Danby held office through three shortly-spaced changes of sovereign (dating to the royal-dominated ministries of Charles II).
While on leave from the Navy, Callaghan was selected as a Parliamentary candidate for Cardiff South: he narrowly won the local party ballot with twelve votes, against the next highest candidate George Thomas, who received eleven.
Theresa May formed the first May ministry in the United Kingdom on 13 July 2016, after having been invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government.
Cabinet Ministers not in Cabinet Thomas Robinson, 2nd Baron Grantham – First Lord of Trade Isaac Barré – Treasurer of the Navy Thomas Townshend – Secretary at War Edmund Burke – Paymaster of the Forces William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland – Lord Lieutenant of Ireland == References ==
He was later High Commissioner to Nigeria from 1960 to 1963 and High Commissioner to Malaysia from 1963 to 1966, where he unsuccessfully attempted to negotiate Singapore's continued status as part of Malaysia.
It was this government which would conduct the Second Boer War from 1899–1902, which helped them to win a landslide victory at the 1900 general election.
Ministers not in Cabinet Lord Chamberlain – William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland == References ==
Who?" ministry, a short-lived British Conservative government which was in power for a matter of months in 1852.
late January 1986 – Paul Channon succeeded Leon Brittan as Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
First term 2007–2011 Cabinet appointments and changes On the same day of Salmond's appointment, he began making appointments to the Scottish Cabinet.
Carwyn Jones was re-elected First Minister in May 2011 and continued to serve up to and beyond the 2016 election.
Sir Francis Fenwick Pearson, 1st Baronet, (13 June 1911 – 17 February 1991) was a British colonial administrator, farmer and politician.
In foreign affairs, the government was active in the United Nations and negotiated a $5 billion loan from the United States and Canada in 1946.
Ministry As compared to the 20th and 21st century, when ministers hold a cabinet-level position under the British prime minister, it is unclear which of the following ministers, beyond Pitt, functionally acted as members of Prime Minister Newcastle's cabinet.
However, during the 1970s, there were allegations that the RCMP Security Service – the predecessor to CSIS – had been involved in numerous illegal activities.
The Information Commissioner of Canada is an independent ombudsman and an officer of parliament of Canada who reports directly to the House of Commons of Canada and the Senate of Canada.
But, since the building has been renamed, media usually simply speak of staff "in the prime minister's office".
List of ministers Key: References External links Department of Foreign Affairs: History: Introduction Department of Foreign Affairs Canada
The 11th Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan was elected in the Saskatchewan general election held in June 1948.
The Ceremony of the Flags (French: Cérémonie des drapeaux) (abbreviated as C of Fs) is a Canadian military music event usually held by unit of the Royal Canadian Navy.
Abuse of process – A malicious and deliberate misuse or perversion of regularly issued court process not justified by the underlying legal action.
History Construction of the armoury began in September 1932 and was completed in the following spring.
Legislative functions Laws, known in their draft form as bills, may be introduced by any member of either house.
Function The TBS assists the Treasury Board, which functions as the government's management committee by overseeing the operations of the federal government as a whole and serving as the principal employer of the core public administration.
Despite the fact that the Progressive Conservatives ended up winning one more seat than his party, premier Brian Gallant sought and received permission to attempt to form a government.
265(2) provides that this definition of assault applies to all forms of assault, including the sexual assault offences.
The building is listed on the Vancouver inventory of heritage buildings as a "B" Category and is classed as a "Registered" building by the Federal Heritage Buildings Review Office.
Prior to the agency's renaming in 1998, the position was termed Minister responsible for the Federal Office of Regional Development – Quebec.
Mission in New York City covers Canada, has an honorary consul in Toronto Botswana, embassy in Washington D.C.
Public debt charges that had reached a peak of about "30 percent in the mid-1990s" were down to "6.7 per cent of expenses in 2018–19." The report said there was strong growth in most regions of the world in 2016 and 2017 and that global economic expansion was more moderate in 2018.
Victor Charles Goldbloom (July 31, 1923 – February 15, 2016) was a Canadian pediatrician, lecturer, and politician.
It was dissolved by the government of Jean Chrétien in 1995, and replaced by an Advisory Committee on Science and Technology.
A Marine Wildlife Area is a conservation designation for a marine geographical region of Canada that restricts most human activities on that region.
Role Certain activities carried out by CSIS and the CSE must be authorized by their ministers, the Minister of Public Safety and Minister of National Defence, respectively.
The position was created in 1981 assuming some of the responsibilities previously exercised by the Postmaster General of Canada.
Of these 232 live on one of the band's own reserves (115 male, 117 female), 51 live on reserves administered by another band (25 male, 26 female), while 196 live off-reserve (91 male, 105 female).
David Eby KC MLA) The Chief Justice of British Columbia (Leonard Marchand Jr.) Former Lieutenant Governors of British Columbia (by seniority of assuming office) Hon.
CCOG meets twice a year to discuss programs, developments, legislation, and issues relevant to geomatics.
Although police and city officials claimed the bylaws to be effective, they were found to be unconstitutional.
In addition, private members' bills must undergo a preliminary reading, while government bills go to first reading directly when they are introduced.
A principal role of the department is assisting the government in the development of its annual budget.
The 10th General Assembly of Prince Edward Island represented the colony of Prince Edward Island between November 3, 1818, and 1820.
Increases were seen in the proportion of murders committed by methods other than shooting; but these homicides were less likely to involve multiple victims.
A., the recurring danger of the trial process becoming or appearing to become a “never closing revolving door” through which litigants could come and go as they pleased.
Prior to 2018, responsibility for oversight of SSC was in the portfolio of the minister of Public Services and Procurement.
The Executive Council in Canadian provinces is composed only of ministers in office, and is the official body by which the Cabinet's constitutional advice is given to the lieutenant governor.
He was appointed by the Department of the Interior to represent the federal government's position in negotiations with Alberta.
History Presently, eight former prime ministers have official coats of arms featuring the mark, including: Joe Clark, Pierre Trudeau, John Turner, Brian Mulroney, Kim Campbell, Jean Chrétien, and Paul Martin.
The Government of Canada is directed by the Cabinet, a group of senior government ministers led by the Prime Minister.
Selection Since it is the House of Commons of Canada that determines what party(ies) form government, the size of party caucuses in the Senate bear no relation to which party forms the government side in the Senate and which party forms the opposition.
The names of these geologic units may be formal, informal or undefined; they may also be obsolete or currently in use.
Yakweakwioose First Nation or Yakweakwioose Band (Halkomelem: Yeqwyeqwí꞉ws) is a band government of the Sto:lo people located in the Upper Fraser Valley region at Sardis, near Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada.
From 1996 until 2006, the position has been held by the Minister of Public Works and Government Services and from 2006 to 2015 by the Minister of Transport.
15, 1/2 mile southeast of Chilliwack, 64.80 ha (shared with eight other bands Pekw'Xe:yles (Peckquaylis) - 10.30 ha.
Chrétien's successor, Paul Martin, changed the structure of the PMO to more match that of the Executive Office of the President of the United States.
Though, the rise of globalization in the 1990s, was to believe that it was more realistic than in the 1970s.
Also that year, Telefilm Canada announces guidelines for the Canada New Media Fund, replacing the Multimedia Fund.
The Treasury Board of Canada (French: Conseil du Trésor du Canada) is the Cabinet committee of the Privy Council of Canada which oversees the spending and operation of the Government of Canada and is the principal employer of the core public service.
They ran freight between Whitehorse and Dawson City, along the Yukon River, the first from 1929 to 1936 and the second, an almost exact replica of the first, from 1937 to 1950.
Turner was appointed a Companion of the Order of Canada on October 19, 1994, and was invested on May 3, 1995.
Such was the case when the power of the Court of Chancery to rehear cases was extinguished by the Judicature Acts in 1873 by fusing common law and equity jurisdictions into one court and providing for a single appeal to a newly created Court of Appeal.
See also Canada Foundation for Innovation (CFI) Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) Canadian Institutes for Health Research (CIHR) Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) References External links Official website
The Quebec order of precedence is a nominal and symbolic hierarchy of important positions within the province of Quebec.
1951 - The Financial Administration Act of 1951 provided final authority to the Treasury Board for management (administration and organization) of the public service.
The office is equivalent to that of a deputy minister and as a member of the public service, the position is nonpartisan.
Management and performance policies and principal employer The Treasury Board, on advice of the Secretariat, sets policies regulating the authority of ministers and deputy ministers to administer and manage their departments, ensuring a government-wide approach to administration.
Minister of Pensions and National Health was an office in the Cabinet of Canada from 1928 to 1944 who oversaw the Department of Pensions and National Health.
These threats include terrorism, espionage and foreign interference in Canadian affairs, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and information security threats.
It was created by the Fair Access to Regulated Professions Act, which came into effect on 1 March 2007.
He enrolled at the University of British Columbia (UBC) in 1945 at age 16 where he was a member of the UBC chapter of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, and was among Canada's outstanding track sprinters in the late 1940s.
However, in 2006, with the situation in Kandahar Province turned increasingly violent, the Canadian Forces participated in several operations and battles.
Composition The committee is a statutory committee made up of parliamentarians, but it is an independent agency whose members are appointed by and administratively housed within the executive branch rather than within the structures of Parliament.
The only major city this left out was Toronto, although the Conservatives indicated that they considered enough Cabinet Ministers to be from the Greater Toronto Area, including Jim Flaherty and Bev Oda, to adequately represent the city in Cabinet.
With this in mind, Canadian immigration authorities decided to indirectly halt Indian immigration to the country.
The 8th Northwest Territories Legislative Assembly was the 15th assembly of the territorial government.
The Saskatchewan Film and Video Classification Board is a board of the Saskatchewan Department of Justice responsible for providing film and video classification documents to movie theatres in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan.
One was hit by anti-aircraft machine-gun fire and managed to land without casualties, the other was struck by a SA-7 missile, leaving no survivors.
Thus, the leader of the Opposition in the Senate may lead more senators than the leader of the Government in the Senate.
After that date, other colonies of the empire attained Dominion status and similar arrangements were made.
On December 21, 2016, a CSIS flag was raised for the first time by the director at the national headquarters.
Dumaresq's design provided accommodation for the Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council chambers, a Supreme Court chamber, and a legislative library, the latter arranged at the rear in the form of a Roman basilica.
The Commissioner turned over Executive Council privileges allowing elected members to form the cabinet and become leader of government in 1980 for the first time since 1905.
Prior to being given market authorization, a manufacturer must present substantive scientific evidence of a product's safety, efficacy, and quality as required by the Food and Drugs Act and Regulations.
Films with this rating will contain: horror, explicit violence, frequent coarse language and sexually suggestive scenes.
Legislation was passed in the House of Assembly approving the amalgamation in November 2022, and Western Health became part of Newfoundland and Labrador Health Services on April 3rd, 2023.
878 transferred Canada's provincially regulated telephone companies to federal jurisdiction, meaning that they would be regulated by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.
Standards The program defined national standards for four performance levels (Excellence, Gold, Silver, and Bronze) by age, sex, and activity, for participants from 6 to 17 years old.
At the signing of the Declaration by United Nations, Canada was one of four Dominions of the British Commonwealth present, alongside Australia, New Zealand, and the Union of South Africa.
Formation When the Canadian Expeditionary Force went overseas in 1914, no provision had been made for its administration.
Late career He served as head of the international team observing the Iraqi legislative election in January, 2005 On December 28, 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced that Kingsley would step down effective February 17, 2007.
Like in the United States, welfare in Canada colloquially refers to direct payments to low-income individuals only, and not to healthcare and education spending.
In London, Ontario the Dutch Canadian Society runs the Dutch Canadian Club one of the most popular clubs in that city.
Aftermath To review the City of Winnipeg Act, a provincial Committee of Review (the "Taraska" Commission) was appointed in 1975, chaired by Peter Stanley Taraska.
A statue of Britannia holding a trident crowns the upper roof, symbolizing Britain's maritime power at the time of the building's construction.
O'Brien 2015–2017 Charles Robert (Interim) 2017–2018 Nicole Proulx (Interim; first female clerk) 2018—2020 Richard Denis (Interim) 2020—2024 Gérald Lafrenière (Interim) May 7, 2024 — present Shaila Anwar See also Clerk of the House of Commons (Canada) Clerk of the Parliaments
Donahue, Alicia Elliott, Samra Habib, Catherine Hernandez, Shawn Hitchins, Ben Lewis, Téa Mutonji, Owen Pallett, Casey Plett, Heath V.
Consorts The Canadian monarch's consort—his or her spouse—has no constitutional status or power, but is a member of the Canadian royal family.
When necessary, an officer at an MCTS station can break into a CMB transmission and broadcast an urgent live message, such as a navigational warning or a distress relay message.
Info Source is a Government of Canada agency repository of information about or collected by the Canadian government.
Since 2000, the governor general also awards the Commander-in-Chief Unit Commendation to units in the Canadian Forces and allied militias that have performed extraordinary deeds or activities in highly hazardous circumstances in active combat.
(See Nickle Resolution) These items are worn at the end of the current order of precedence, and one receiving a British Order, Decoration or Medal after 1 June 1972 will abide by the normal order of precedence, not the one catered to pre-1972 awardings.
With the above in mind, a program was designed and implemented where young men between the ages of 16 and 17 (no younger and no older) were recruited into a seven-year program of which the first two years were a combination of military training, trades training, and additional schooling.
Relations with mainstream media Army.ca has on one occasion drawn negative attention to itself from a journalist of the mainstream (print) media.
In addition to age and name, geologic units in the Lexicon may also be searched by first citation, by source data set or by province or territory.
The Medical, Dental, Chaplain and Record Services came under the Adjutant General's Department for general administration.
This means that they are not part of the Canadian honours system and their insignia must be worn on the right side of the chest, similar to organizational medals granted by the Royal Canadian Legion or the Canadian Cadet Organizations.
Fiji In Fiji under the 2013 Constitution of Fiji, the Chief Justice of Fiji has a dormant commission to act as President of Fiji when it is vacant or when the President is either absent or ill.
Every second Wednesday is reserved for debating members' bills, although this rule is overridden when certain government business is before the House, such as the Budget.
An independent lab later claimed that the faking had been poorly done, including the use of shavings from gold jewelry.
Classes 2-6 have certain limitations for arable crop production, denoted by sub-classes which specify the limitations of the soil (for example, excessive water, adverse climate, stoniness).
CBC Arts (French: Radio-Canada Arts) is the division of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that creates and curates written articles, short documentaries, non-fiction series and interactive projects that represent the excellence of Canada's diverse artistic communities.
His replacement, Claude Drouin, would handle virtually all responsibilities for this portfolio as Secretary of State (Economic Development Agency for the Regions of Quebec) for the remainder of the Chrétien Ministry.
Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development: Previously two posts, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of International Development.
When policy rates in Canada hit the effective lower bound, the central bank combated the crisis with the non-standard monetary tool "conditional commitment" in April 2009 to hold the policy rate for at least one year, in a boost to domestic credit conditions and market confidence.
He was educated at the Académie De La Salle and went on to earn a BCom and a master's degree in Hospital Administration from the University of Ottawa.
The Minister of Housing and Community Development was a cabinet minister position in the province of Manitoba, Canada.
In 1979, this seal replaced an earlier version, which displayed the shield from the royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom along with a Tudor Crown above and the coat of arms of Quebec below.
Canadian doctrinal and judicial writing on functus officio is sparse, even though the rule itself derives from a 19th century case of the English Court of Appeal.
2005 PEI Provincial MMP referendum Prince Edward Island held a referendum in 2005 regarding the adoption of mixed member proportional representation.
Poland: 290 Hungary: 290 Indonesia: 290 Canada or Iran: 290 Total: 1,160 Those who had served at least 90 days with the ICCS were eligible for the International Commission of Control and Supervision Medal.
Fletcher Commanding Officer, HMCS Nonsuch Commanding Officer, 1 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 1 Area Support Group Commanding Officer, 41 Canadian Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 4 Wing Sources Government of Alberta: Order of Precedence == References ==
Population The band has a registered population of 40, 25 of whom live on one of the band's reserves.
He is particularly notable as having occupied positions as the Chief of Staff or Deputy Chief of Staff of two Canadian federal political leaders, Preston Manning and Stephen Harper.
In the past, ICURR independently produced and published research reports as well as collaborated on research reports with the Institute of Public Administrators of Canada (IPAC), the Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM) and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC).
An Indian agent was the chief administrator for Indian affairs in their respective districts, although the title now is largely in disuse in preference to "government agent".
The Commission receives complaints from the public and conducts reviews when complainants are not satisfied with the RCMP’s handling of their complaints.
Contentious bills are likely to run out of parliamentary time unless the government allocates some; any pending private members' bills lapse at the end of each parliamentary session.
The British Columbia order of precedence is a nominal and symbolic hierarchy of important positions within the province of British Columbia.
List of commissioners Jean Augustine, 2007–2015 Mary Shenstone, 2015–2016 Grant Jameson, 2017–2019 Irwin Glasberg, 2020–present See also Criticism of Canada relating to foreign credentials Ministry of Citizenship and Immigration (Ontario) References External links Official website
See also Symbols of Quebec Great Seal of Ontario Great Seal of Canada References External links Image of the old Great Seal of Quebec
I remember lines of unknown people linking arms and walking down Whitehall, all of us just swept along on a tide of happiness and relief." During the war, plans were drawn to quell Welsh nationalism by affiliating Elizabeth more closely with Wales.
It consisted of Victoria Island with the adjacent part of the mainland as far as the Boothia Peninsula, together with King William Island and the southern portion of Prince of Wales Island.
That is, it serves the same function provincially as the Privy Council does federally, except that the Executive Council does not have the ceremonial role of directly advising the Monarch, proclaiming their successors, or assenting to some royal marriages.
Strictly speaking, the five-year time limitation is applied to the life of the parliament or assembly in question — that body is not deemed to have been formed until the return of the writs and ceases to exist the moment it is dissolved.
Grierson made a report on the Canadian film industry in 1938, and the National Film Act, which he drafted, was passed on 2 May 1939 causing the creation of the NFB.
Barlow's contention that water "must be declared a public trust" has its basis in her involvement with water rights issues going back to the Canada-US Free Trade Agreement in the 1980s, when water was under consideration as a tradable good under the terms of that agreement.
However, its parliament never adopted the statute to create a separate position of king of Newfoundland and would remain under the British Crown until it joined Canada in 1949.
Originally the entire region was part of the Fort Smith Region, Northwest Territories and was later called the "Central Arctic Region".
The scientific members include a toxicologist nominated by the Society of Toxicology of Canada, a microbiologist nominated by the Canadian Society of Microbiologists and a chemist nominated by the Chemical Institute of Canada.
Following his father’s death in 2000, Justin Trudeau inherited Pierre Trudeau’s coat of arms, and is consequently the eighth former Canadian prime minister to possess arms featuring the heraldic mark.
On Aladdin, with the higher X-ray intensity, new areas of science were opened up and the number of users increased mostly focused on X-ray absorption and photoemission spectroscopy of gases and solids.
Federal SOAs function, without legislation, within a framework agreement approved by their given department's deputy minister, the minister responsible for the agency, and the Treasury Board.
ISED is responsible for a number of the federal government's functions in regulating industry and commerce, promoting science and innovation, and supporting economic development.
Doyle (2000) Murray Sinclair (2001) Joan McKelvey (2001) Martin Freedman, (2002) Colleen Suche, (2002) Marilyn Goldberg, (2002) Shawn Greenberg (2003) Karen Simonsen (2004) Marianne Rivoalen (2005) Lori Spivak (2005) Lori Douglas (2005) A.
Originally enacted in 1867 by the British Parliament under the name the British North America Act, 1867, in 1982 the Act was brought under full Canadian control through the Patriation of the Constitution, and renamed the Constitution Act, 1867.
It also marks the first participation by a First Nations member of the council (John Tetlichi, appointed).
Films with this rating are allowed to include: occasional violence, occasional swearing and coarse language, the most innocent of sexually suggestive scenes and nudity.
Canada, Denmark, Norway, Russia and the United States discussed key issues relating to the Arctic Ocean.
Later that year, the CRC gave a public demonstration of Telidon, the Canadian videotex/teletext system that contributed to the development of international standards for the Web.
While data sovereignty may require that records about a nation's citizens or residents follow its personal or financial data processing laws, data localization goes a step further in requiring that initial collection, processing, and storage first occur within the national boundaries.
After a controversial 2009 decision approved a community of up to 1,400 homes in the Manotick neighbourhood of Ottawa, Minister of Municipal Affairs Jim Watson was quoted in the local press as stating: "Has the OMB been perfect?
The remains of the hull of the Klondike I can still be seen at low water by canoeists on the Yukon River.
On 6 May 2023, Charles and Camilla's coronation took place at Westminster Abbey, in a ceremony planned for many years under the code name Operation Golden Orb.
As of April 1, 2011, the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) withdrew the federal government's share of the funding of ICURR.
This leads to underfunded housing, social services and health outcomes across all indigenous reserves in Canada.
The "intermodal" and "anomaly" classes are not distinct designations, however, but simply represent an additional clarification of why the road holds "core" or "feeder" status.
Through its networks and partners, CCUNESCO promote's UNESCO's values, priorities and programs in Canada and brings the voices of Canadian experts to the international stage.
Section 5 still co-exists with section 86 of the Constitution Act, 1867, which requires annual sessions for the legislatures of the provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
other advantages including reductions in property tax, exemptions and rebates under the GST/HST system.
The Canadian and Polish delegations had been present for nearly two decades, whilst the Hungarians and Indonesians were new to the task.
Among residents, most believed that only individuals who migrate legally should be allowed to remain.
Choosing either one would require much travel by the members of the Parliament, while Ottawa's central position would be advantageous.
The new king showed impatience with court protocol, and caused consternation among politicians by his apparent disregard for established constitutional conventions.
The CLI in this modified form consists of a soil survey with rankings from 1 to 7, with Class 1 soil having no limitations for arable crop production and Class 7 having no capability for agricultural activities.
After that, the responsibility was divided among the Department of Marines and Fisheries, Agriculture, and Inland Revenue.
The LINC is not available for Canadian citizens, refugee claimants, temporary residents (e.g., foreign students, foreign workers, or visitors).
Ottawa and Edmonton created task forces in 1992 while Halifax, Montreal and Toronto police addressed juvenile prostitution and, in particular, exiting schemes.
The National Advisory Board on Science and Technology was a Canadian organization that provided advice to the Prime Minister on matters relating to natural science and technology.
The Office of the Commissioner of Lobbying of Canada is an officer of Parliament of Canada who is responsible for achieving the objectives of the Lobbying Act that came into force in 2008.
In Canadian law, a real and substantial connection or the real and substantial connection test is a legal principle used to determine whether a subject matter falls within a jurisdiction.
Mandate The Standing Committee on Indigenous and Northern Affairs was established by the then new Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development (now Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada), in 1968.
History Ministers holding the external affairs and foreign affairs portfolios have sometimes played prominent international roles: Lester B.
The first three days included meetings, followed by a ministerial-level meeting on 13–14 June observed by representatives from Germany, Poland, the United Kingdom, and the United Nations.
Ministries See also List of Canadian federal parliaments List of prime ministers of Canada References External links Parliament of Canada - Ministries
The premier of Prince Edward Island is the first minister to the lieutenant governor of the Canadian province of Prince Edward Island and presides over the Executive Council of Prince Edward Island.
Role The Canadian Cabinet is arranged into several committees with varying responsibilities, but all other ones are informal structures and frequently change.
Pearson (a future prime minister) defused the Suez Crisis and established the United Nations Peacekeeping Forces and as a result received the 1957 Nobel Peace Prize.
See also Data governance Data sovereignty Information privacy (data protection) Legal aspects of computing Privacy Privacy law == References ==
The Lexicon of Canadian Geologic Units includes both lithological units and chronological units, the latter of which may be searched only by age or name.
Meanwhile, Senator Camille Villar has been the youngest Senator since 2025, taking over her older brother, Mark Villar.
History The Department of Trade and Commerce was created in statute on 23 June 1887 and proclaimed into force on 3 December 1892.
On August 5, 2010, Chrétien complained of experiencing difficulty walking, and was admitted to a hospital.
On the 25-years anniversary of Genome Canada, a C$175-million Canadian Genomics Strategy was announced.
Membership As of the 45th Canadian Parliament: Sub-Committees Subcommittee on Agenda and Procedure (SINA) References External links Official website Committee List
In the 2002 Species at Risk Act, COSEWIC was appointed as the body to identify and assess a species status.
Following the Westminster system, the premier is normally the leader of the political party which has the most seats in the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island who is called upon by the lieutenant governor to form a government.
Special Advisory Committee (SAC) is the term given to ad-hoc groups formed in Canadian government circles to provide advice and consultation, especially public health as governed by the Public Health Agency of Canada.
The council presided by Major-General John Wallace Carson, to which Hughes appointed his own son-in-law as secretary, began meeting weekly and formulating changes in policy.
To that end, the Privy Council Office serves as the policy-oriented but politically neutral advisory unit to the prime minister, while the Prime Minister's Office is politically oriented but policy-sensitive.
Membership The Tsimshian First Nations treaty council is made up of four band governments including: BC Treaty Process In the British Columbia Treaty Process, the treaty council is at Stage 4.
The test was updated in 1973 to promote an individual's improvement against earlier performance in addition to the program awards, and the 300-yard run was eliminated.
2002-1192 dates 3 Nov 2022 External links Order of Precedence – Governor General of Canada Canadian Medals Chart – Department of National Defence (archived version) Canadian Forces Administrative Order 18-4 Recommendations for Canadian Orders, Decorations and Military Honours
The Treasury Board Secretariat is headed by the secretary of the Treasury Board, currently Bill Matthews, who is responsible to Parliament through the president of the Treasury Board, currently Shafqat Ali.
As all executive power is legally reposed in the Crown, the role of commander-in-chief is the only constitutional means by which decisions are made over the deployment and disposition of the Canadian Armed Forces.
History During the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, QC, the department was called the Department of National Revenue Customs and Excise.
It also formed a union that has lasted over 50 years that one can relate to when two apprentices meet again, even among other intakes formerly unknown.
For its first 2 terms in the UNSC, Canada took the Commonwealth seat on the council, but in 1967, Canada has run for the Western European and Others Group seat.
The position was established in 1920 under the Dominion Elections Act to be the chief executive of the independent agency now known as Elections Canada.
The site has been in operation since 1993, but up until 2007 it went by the name Army.ca and CdnArmy.ca.
The NDP presented a motion to the House of Commons requesting the prime minister not advise the governor general to prorogue parliament for more than seven days unless approved by a majority vote by the lower house.
The agency's mandate is to ensure the integrity and accuracy of trade measurement in Canada, through enforcement and administration of federal acts and regulations.
As far as the province of Manitoba is concerned, section 5 of the Charter replaced section 20 of the Manitoba Act, which was also repealed in 1982.
Canada's Radiocommunication Act and Radiocommunication Regulations require that manufacturers, importers, distributors and sellers must test and label radio apparatus, interference-causing equipment or radio-sensitive equipment.
It includes the names of more than 16,000 geologic units throughout Canada, as well as information about each geologic unit from several sources.
It protects marine areas extending from the edge of territorial waters to the boundary defined by Canada's Exclusive Economic Zone, that is, the areas between 12 and 200 nautical miles (370 km) from the coastline.
He was the second judge advocate general for the Canadian Militia and the first chief electoral officer of Canada.
Jurisdiction When a claimant wishes to bring an action to a Canadian court, the Court must be satisfied that it has jurisdiction over the matter.
DeBakey operated on him in Houston for an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta in December 1964, and Sir Stewart Duke-Elder treated a detached retina in his left eye in February 1965.
The content of a CMB is a continuously-played back loop of marine weather information, provided by Environment Canada and updated several times a day, as well as live broadcasts of selected notices to mariners, shipping, and fishermen.
The nominated successor accepts the invitation and undertakes to inform the Governor General or Lieutenant Governor when the new Ministry is in a position to be sworn in.
The second study focused on the implementation of Part VII of the Official Languages Act by the federal government and suggested different ways that Section 41 of the Official Languages Act could be implemented.
The CCRA was subsequently split into the Canada Border Services Agency and Canada Revenue Agency in December 2003.
The most recent five-year evaluation by Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada was published in June 2020 with recommendations for efficiency gains and to minimize duplications.
Ujjal Dosanjh PC KC Gordon Campbell OC OBC Christy Clark The Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia (Hon.
The specific epithet (elata) means 'tall or elated', "in reference to this being one of the tallest species of Acacia".
Brachychiton diversifolius, commonly known as the northern kurrajong, is a small tree of the genus Brachychiton found in northern Australia.
The name Alsophila tricolor was considered the correct scientific name for the species, due to the species epithet dealbata being preoccupied in the genus by a species described in 1848 by Carl Borivoj Presl, now considered a synonym of Sphaeropteris glauca.
Callistemon 'Captain Cook' is a cultivar of the plant genus Callistemon, widely grown as an ornamental plant.
The Aztecs planted āhuēhuētl along processional paths in the gardens of Chapultepec because of its association with government.
One is in the Rio Grande Valley of southernmost Texas, while the other is in southern New Mexico, near Las Cruces.
Uses The plant is propagated by corms and plant division, and is a popular ornamental in both the local and international markets.
Ecology Uses Brahea armata has an attractive appearance, especially when young, and is commonly available at nurseries in the American southwest and in warm temperate locations elsewhere.
Although listed as Endangered in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, the same research has suggested that this classification is unwarranted.
The central style is surrounded by four yellow anthers which are also joined at the base with the tips rolled back, so that it resembles a cross when viewed end-on.
Description A small bushy tree growing to at most 8 m (26 ft), it generally has reddish buds, shell pink 2 cm (0.8 in) flowers and typical red (if a bit pale) 1.5 cm (0.6 in) cherries.
cespitosa (synonyms: Deschampsia bottnica (Wahlenb.) Trin.; Deschampsia littoralis (Gaudin) Reut.) Horticulture The species is cultivated as an ornamental garden plant, and numerous cultivars are available.
In the 1920s, eleven healthy Medjool palms were transferred from Morocco to the United States where they were tended by members of the Chemehuevi tribe in a remote region of Nevada.
selloana populations are best distinguished by a Bayesian analysis of genetic features such as microsatellites.
macrophyllus – southern China, southern Taiwan, and Japan (Honshu and Shikoku) Podocarpus macrophyllus var.
It does not tolerate prolonged exposure to temperatures below 10 °C (50 °F), so in temperate regions it must be grown under glass with heat.
Leaves are up to 1 m (39 in) long and often sharply recurved towards the tip, looking stiff and spiny.
A smaller shrub with dentate leaves, this turned out to be an immature plant of the same species with juvenile leaves.
— Hilton daisy Gerbera galpinii Klatt — Galpin's gerbera Gerbera jamesonii Bolus — Barberton daisy, Gerbera daisy, Transvaal daisy Gerbera sylvicola Johnson, N.R.Crouch & T.J.Edwards Gerbera viridifolia (DC.) Sch.Bip.
Dianthus caryophyllus ( dy-AN-thəs KAIR-ee-ə-FIL-əs), commonly known as carnation or clove pink, is a species of Dianthus native to the Mediterranean region.
Uses Although verbena ("vervain") has been used in herbalism and traditional medicine, usually as an herbal tonic, there is no high-quality evidence for its effectiveness.
zebrina is illegal in the Philippines and is punishable with six to ten years imprisonment and a fine of ₱100,000 to ₱1,000,000.
The best distinction is the slightly brighter green tone of the leaves, compared to the more greyish-green of P.
Companion planting is thought by its practitioners to assist in the growth of one or both plants involved in the association.
Description The individually growing Gymnocalycium mihanovichii have a broad-spherical, gray-green, often reddish overgrown plant body, which reaches stature heights and diameter of 3 to 5 centimeters.
The leaves are dark green above, purple below, marked heavily with silver along the veins and midriff.
Control measures Pheromone traps (attracting adult males) are able to prevent impregnation of adult females and therefore control the severity of the damage.
Goeppertia picturata is a species of plant now classified as belonging to the genus Goeppertia in the family Marantaceae.
The hermaphrodite flowers are white, produced in corymbs 4–11 cm (2–4 in) in diameter at the top of the stems.
Specifically these are food or drink additives of mostly botanical origin used in nutritionally insignificant quantities for flavoring or coloring.
The leaves are approximately triangular, about 3,5 cm long, with longitudinal pale brown or greyish veines along the upper surfaces and small teeth along the edges.
Its role as a species of mature forests has led it to be replaced by more opportunistic species in areas where forests are cut over.
Each seed is separated from the others by a membranous separator, and has a long rectangular wing, which is much longer than the seed itself.
An application to register the name 'Dusky Bells' was received by the Australian Cultivar Registration Authority in 1980 and accepted in 1986.
Plants growing in southern Australia often lose their fronds by the end of winter, as is the case with Alsophila dregei in South Africa.
Description Clerodendrum tomentosum grows up to 15 metres tall with a trunk diameter of 25 cm, though usually much smaller.
The piles beneath the Rialto in Venice, and the foundations of several medieval cathedrals are made of alder.
Description It is a coniferous evergreen tree, growing to 15–25 m (rarely to 30 m) in height, forming a wide, dense, conical crown.
Mayten tree is fully naturalized in New Zealand where it is spreading very rapidly in the Canterbury region, it now classed as an invasive species and illegal to sell or distribute in NZ.
The bright green straplike leaves are soft, up to 35 cm long and 2.5 cm wide, and are borne along the length of the stems, rather than the tufted habit typical of Dracaena.
It has been popular as a gourmet bushfood since the early 1980s and is commercially cultivated on a small-scale basis.
This does not imply high rates of self-fertilisation, however, as the species appears highly self-incompatible: although pollen grains will germinate on flowers of the self plant, they apparently fail to produce pollen tubes that penetrate the style.
Uses Cussonia spicata is harvested locally for its wood, roots, and leaves to be used as food, medicine, and timber.
Cultivation Celtica gigantea is grown as an ornamental grass for planting as single specimens and massed drifts in parks, public landscapes, and gardens.
The inner flesh of the mature fruit forms a regular part of the diets of many people in the tropics and subtropics.
Name and taxonomy The curious common name of 'downy chance' alludes to both the generic and species names.
However, essences are not used to prevent, control, or cure cancer or any other physical condition." The essential oil of various species, mainly common vervain, is traded as "Spanish verbena oil".
It is native to Inner Mongolia, Manchuria, northern and south-central China, Primorsky Krai in the Russian Far East, the Korean Peninsula, and Kyushu in Japan, and it has been introduced to Bulgaria, Great Britain, Ireland, the United States, and Uzbekistan.
Young trees up to 5–10 years old bear juvenile leaves, which are very different, single (not paired), 2–4 cm (3⁄4–1+1⁄2 in) long, glaucous blue-green; the adult leaves appear mixed with juvenile leaves from the fourth or fifth year on, replacing it fully by around the tenth year.
Depending on the growing conditions, live oaks vary from a shrub-size to large and spreading tree-size: typical open-grown trees reach 20 m (66 ft) in height, with a limb spread of nearly 27 m (89 ft).
It is found at a wide range of elevations, generally in habitats that have limited competition from other plants.
Haworthiopsis tessellata, formerly Haworthia tessellata, is a species of the genus Haworthiopsis belonging to the family Asphodelaceae.
It was named in honour of Victorian 19th century parliamentarian and agriculturist Samuel Henry Bindon.
More recently, prostrate shrubs have received attention for their usefulness in planting green roofs and green walls, where they can contribute to environmental conservation.
Ilex pedunculosa, called longstalk holly, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Ilex, native to central and southern China, Taiwan, and Japan.
The tree is sometimes called fierce lancewood, in reference to its fierce-looking saw-tooth shaped juvenile leaves.
Adapted to cold, arid environments, its many‑stemmed growth habit fixes blowing sand, an important contribution to succession.
It is also found in the northeast of Argentina (Misiones and Corrientes), locally in Paraguay (Alto Paraná), growing in low mountains at altitudes of 500–1,800 metres (1,600–5,900 ft) and in northern regions of Uruguay where it was thought to be extinct until recent discoveries.
"Bromeliaceae da Mata Atlântica Brasileira: lista de espécies, distribuição e conservação" [Bromeliaceae of the brazilian Atlantic Forest: checklist, distribution and conservation].
The small, scented flowers, are 6–8 cm (2–3 in) in diameter, come in shades of blue, from violet, blue-violet, deep purple, blue-purple, deep blue-purple, pale purple, deep blue, to mid-blue.
The genome of Fraxinus excelsior has been sequenced using the self-pollinated offspring of a tree from Worcestershire, held by the Earth Trust.
Areas occupied by mountain hemlock generally have a cool to cold maritime climate that includes mild to cold winters, a short, warm-to-cool growing season and moderate to high precipitation.
It feeds on the sap of developing conifer cones throughout its life, and its sap-sucking causes the developing seeds to wither and misdevelop.
Distribution The natural range of this species is in the arid Little Karoo area around the boundary between the Western Cape and the Eastern Cape Provinces, South Africa.
Taxonomy A global phylogeny of Asplenium published in 2020 divided the genus into eleven clades, which were given informal names pending further taxonomic study.
Symbols of territorial entities and organizations The carnation is the national flower of Spain, Monaco, and Slovenia, and the provincial flower of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands.
An attempt was tried to grow the iris in West Germany and the US (near New York City), but they were unsuccessful, due to high humidity conditions.
huegelii ms Distribution Preference for temperate and sandy coastal plains from Geraldton to the Esperance Plains, predominantly those of the north and south mallee shrubland and heath.
Gallery References External links Pampas grass Cortaderia selloana Blueplanetbiomes.org Pampas Grass under the microscope Pampas Grass Montserrat, Vila (2009).
bipinnatifidum is cultivated as a landscape plant in many tropical, subtropical and warm temperate countries including the Philippines, throughout Australia, the gulf coast and east coast of the United States, including Florida and California, and in South Africa and northern New Zealand.
Medicinal Allium chinense is used as a folk medicine in tonics to help the intestines, and as a stomachic.
Cultivation Various forms of Rosa chinensis have been cultivated in gardens in China for a long time; therefore, it is not easy to distinguish between wild forms and cultivated forms.
Cultivation Heat and drought tolerant, it can be grown as a specimen tree or as a hedge bush, and it's hardy from zone 8b to 11.
The fruit is used to treat common colds, diabetes, asthma, headaches, diarrhea, and gallstones, while the roots are used as a diuretic.
Description This species has a fast growth rate of up to 10 to 80 cm (4 to 31 in) a year, growing to about 6 m (20 ft) tall.
The hard shells, fibrous husks and long pinnate leaves are used to make a products for furnishing and decoration.
Description It is an evergreen or semi-deciduous, vigorously-growing climber, capable of reaching 5 m in height.
There is a prominent, dark brown gland below the lowest pinna and sometimes a gland at the base of the uppermost pinnae.
It is native in Greece and Albania and may be naturalized elsewhere in Mediterranean Europe where it occurs in maritime sandy habitats and in waste places.
Biology The adult scale insect resembles a limpet and remains stationary on the bark of its host tree where it feeds on sap.
The fronds usually have a half-twist so that the leaflets at the distal end are more or less vertical.
The juvenile leaves are very long and narrow, measuring up to 25 by 1 cm (9.8 by 0.4 in), while the mature leaves are broadly oblanceolate, measuring up to 15.5 by 5 cm (6.1 by 2.0 in).
In order to increase the efficiency of weed control not only chemical weed control should be applied but also mechanical weed control.
The tree was called platane in ancient Greek history and literature and by related names in continental Europe.
The flowers are white or creamy-white, the corolla with a tubular base 0.16–0.24" (4–6 mm) long and a four-lobed apex 0.12–0.24" (3–6 mm) across, and a strong fragrance; they are produced in broad panicles 5–30 cm (2.0–11.8 in) long and 3–20 cm (1.2–7.9 in) broad in early summer.
A deciduous shrub reaching 2.5 m (8 ft), it is typically found in scrublands and mixed evergreen/deciduous forests, at elevations from 100 to 1,500 m (300 to 4,900 ft) above sea level.
Today the tulip tree is one of the largest and most valuable hardwoods of eastern North America, thriving in temperate deciduous forests east of the Mississippi River.
An intensive hybridisation and selection programme was initiated by Jan Hoog (Van Tubergen nursery) and E.A.
It occurs in the wild on limestone rocks and south-facing slopes at relatively high elevations of 500–2,150 metres (1,640–7,050 ft), but has also been planted at lower elevations.
Cultivation Like most cacti, Parodia leninghausii needs well drained soil, sunny exposure, regular watering in summer and no watering in winter.
External links Erythrina coralloides photos International Legume Database & Information Service: Erythrina coralloides
Rubus formosensis, the Formosan raspberry or Formosan bramble, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae, native to southeastern China (Guangdong and Guangxi), and Taiwan.
They are a deep green color, and since these plants are grown in the tropics, there is no apparent color change that correlates with the fall season.
It is presently registered under the name Gypchek and is available for use in USDA Forest Service sponsored suppression programs.
The spikelets are stalked, awnless, 1–2 cm (0.4–0.8 in) long when flowering, and loosely arranged on delicate paired or spreading branches.
Distribution and habitat The plant is native to the mountainous areas of Southwest China, particularly Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunnan, as well as Myanmar.
The flowers are bright blue with white lobes at the end in the wild species, but other colours are available, including white.
Flowers are yellow, 5 cm diameter, at the top of the plants, but only if adult (at least 20 cm tall) Sometimes, they present monstruous forms.
Hybrids With Banksia hookeriana Banksia prionotes readily hybridises with Banksia hookeriana (Hooker's banksia) under experimental conditions, indicating that these species have highly compatible pollen.
This coastal forest is at least 13 kilometres (8 miles) long, with dense and tall stands of Pinus pinea mixed with Pinus halepensis.
A contribution of 2 or 3 handfuls of wood ash around the stump in the spring may keep the gastropods away and make a good contribution of potash.
The cones are 5–10 mm long, with four scales, two very small sterile basal scales and two large fertile scales; each fertile scale has two winged seeds 3–4 mm long.
The cultivar was produced by plant breeder Stijn van Hoecke of the Belgian company Rudy Raes Bloemzaden nv.
Description It is a twining evergreen climber, growing to 3 metres (9.8 ft) or more, with panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers in summer.
The combined application of those two herbicides has been shown to be recommendable for effective weed management in Papaver somniferum.
The genus includes a single species, Rhodosphaera rhodanthema, which is a rainforest tree of eastern Australia.
The annual football rivalry game between Clemson and South Carolina is known as the "Palmetto Bowl".
1880: Karl Maximovich published first scientific description of the tree based on the specimens collected by Przhevalsky and Bretschneider.
Hybridization The dwarf habit and erect flowers characteristic of this species were taken advantage of by John Seden, who rapidly evolved several garden forms, including a dwarf race of hybrids suitable for summer-bedding which became popular in Victorian England.
regalis is primarily a pest of urban trees; its sap-sucking activities reduce its hosts' vigour, and the excess honeydew produced by the insects encourages the growth of sooty mould, which is unsightly.
The acorns are small, 1–2.5 cm (3⁄8–1 in), oblong in shape (ovoid or oblong-ellipsoid), shiny and tan-brown to nearly black, often black at the tips, and borne singly or in clusters.
Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWVI) is a plant pathogenic virus of the order Picornavirales, family Secoviridae, subfamily Comovirinae, genus Fabavirus.
In 1939, it was thought to be a form of Iris scariosa, then in 198 Brian Mathew classed it as a species related to Iris suaveolens.
chodatii are similar in form and size, but their color goes from creamy white centers to yellow tips.
It is a hybrid born in Japan and one of its cultivars, Prunus × yedoensis 'Somei-yoshino' or Yoshino cherry (Japanese: 染井吉野 or ソメイヨシノ, Hepburn: Somei Yoshino), is one of the most popular and widely planted cherry cultivars in temperate regions around the world today.
Fraxinus velutina, the velvet ash, Arizona ash or Modesto ash, is a species of Fraxinus native to southwestern North America, in the United States from southern California east to Texas, and in Mexico from northern Baja California east to Coahuila and Nuevo León.
As of October 2025, it has not been assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
obvallaris, sometimes classed as a separate species), which probably originated in cultivation but now grows wild in southwest Wales.
The leaves are produced in opposite pairs on long shoots and singly on short shoots; they have a 1.4–4.7 cm petiole, and are rounded with a heart-shaped base and a crenate margin.
Fancy-leaf zonal pelargoniums – besides having green leaves with or without zoning, this group also have variable coloured foliage that is sometimes used in classifying for exhibition purposes, e.g.
The natural range of distribution is from the Macleay River, New South Wales to Maryborough in south east Queensland.
Rural decline The plight of Cordyline australis in the sudden decline epidemic drew attention to another widespread threat to the tree in rural areas throughout New Zealand.
The lacebark pine produces cones that turn yellowish brown as they mature and are roughly egg-shaped and 5–7 centimetres (2.0–2.8 in) long.
Being a warm temperate plant which dislikes temperatures below −5 °C (23 °F), in cooler areas it must be lifted and stored in the winter months.
It is cultivated in Europe and North America as an ornamental tree, valued for its feathery white flowerheads.
However, it must be protected or brought-inside as a house plant when frost is a risk, or when nighttime temperatures drop below 40 °F (4.4 °C).
One reference mistakenly lists its common name as 'Chalcedonian iris', but this is normally used for Iris susiana.
Like Akebia quinata, it grows in USDA hardiness zones from 5a to 9b: from −20 °F (−28.9 °C) to 30 °F (−1.1 °C).
Ecology An example of plant associations of Rumohra adiantiformis is found in the Westland podocarp/broadleaf forests of New Zealand, with flora associates including Ascarina lucida, Pseudowintera colorata, Neopanax colensoi, Alsophila smithii, and Blechnum discolor.
Botanist Simon Mayo documented that these were names of the same plant species that exhibited slight anatomical differences.
Description Haworthia magnifica is a succulent evergreen slow-growing species reaching a size of 40 cm in height.
dielsiana (Poelln.) M.B.Bayer – common in cultivation, with short blue-green stumpy leaves, with no bristles or leaf-awns and completely rounded leaf-ends H.
After a century of naturalistic landscape gardening and two generations of revived pattern planting some bosquets re-entered garden design at the turn of the twentieth century.
Cultivation For best results in growing Virginia stock, sow on the surface in patches or rows and thin the young plants to 6 inches apart.
The wood of the lacebark pine is not commercially used as timber, but it is used locally by populations in northeast China for construction, furniture, and transport structures like pallets.
Flower clusters grow at intervals on short equal stalks along the stem, with bright yellow to red or pink bilateral flowers.
Fossil evidence suggests that it has only recently become adapted to the Mediterranean climate as its closest relatives are part of the Madrean pine-oak woodlands found at higher elevations in the southwest US and Mexico.
Confusingly, another mountain near Arsiero in the province of Vicenza (Veneto), is also known as Monte Cengio Alto.
These palms are naturally found in groups, formations of several individuals, or composing large caranday forests where they present strong dominance.
Description Occasionally reaching 30 metres in height and 90 cm in trunk diameter, the tree's crown is dense with small leaves, above a tall straight trunk.
Taxonomy Narcissus broussonetii was described by the Spanish botanist, Mariano Lagasca and published in Genera et species plantarum 1, in the year 1816.
The species is indigenous to the wetlands of the south-central and south-eastern United States from Texas to South Carolina.
Allium neapolitanum is a bulbous herbaceous perennial plant in the onion subfamily within the Amaryllis family.
It is tender, with a minimum temperature of 16 °C (61 °F) required, and in temperate areas is cultivated indoors as a houseplant.
Throughout spring and summer, the fungus produces acervuli on the exterior of the necrotic areas at their mature stage.
The leaves are elliptic-acute, 2.5–15 cm (0.98–5.91 in) long and 1–8 cm (0.39–3.15 in) broad, with an entire margin, and a roughish texture with slightly impressed veins.
Numerous cultivars have been developed, of which 'Luna Red' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The fruit is a yellow-orange to red capsule 13–25 mm (0.51–0.98 in) long, with a single seed in each locule.
fargesii 'Carnival' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit (confirmed 2017).
Paul Fryxell, in the journal "Australian Plants" (1966), described the species as one of two in a uniquely Australian genus.
This event, known as the Concours international de roses nouvelles de Bagatelle (International competition for new roses), has taken place annually ever since and remains one of the world's top rose competitions.
An analysis by Rio de la Loza showed the seeds contain 13.35 solid and liquid fat, 0.32 resin soluble in ether, 13.47 resin soluble in alcohol, 1.61 erythrococalloidine, an alkaloid, 5.60 albumen, 0.83 gum, 1.55 sugar, 0.42 organic acid, 15.87 starch, 7.15 moisture and 39.15 inorganic matter.
Although medical uses of Erysimum became uncommon in Europe after the Middle Ages, Erysimum diffusum, as well as purified erysimin and erysimoside, have been applied more recently as Ukrainian ethnobotanical treatments.
Port Melbourne: Elsevier Australia - Inkata Imprint, copyright Forestry Commission of New South Wales (published 1 December 1989).
References External links Ornamental Plants from Russia: Quercus pontica Other sources Rushforth, K.
In many communities of the mountain hemlock forest in British Columbia and Washington and northern Oregon, Pacific silver fir is a major climax species.
In its native habitat it blooms between July and December producing inflorescences that appear in groups of two to eight on an axillary raceme.
The hybrid populations were found at Mount Reid, Tyndall Range, Crooked Lake, Brumbys Creek, and Tarn Shelf, while the individuals are located at Mount Kate, Pine Lake, Wylds Craig and Lake Dobson Road.
Cultivation Aloidendron dichotomum is cultivated in arid areas around the world, for use in landscaping.
Dark, disc or cushion-shaped acervuli are formed under the plant epidermis which then splits open revealing the fruiting structures.
Agapanthus praecox (common agapanthus, blue lily, African lily, or lily of the Nile) is a popular garden plant around the world, especially in Mediterranean climates.
The second variety was first described as a separate species Pinus pentaphylla by Heinrich Mayr in 1890, but in reducing it to the rank of variety in 1910, Augustine Henry pointed out that the differences cited by Mayr between the two were minimal and inconsistent, with much overlap.
In 2021 the new genus Oreomecon was described by Enrico Augusto Banfi, Fabrizio Bartolucci, Jean-Marc Tison, and Gabriele Galasso including Oreomecon nudicaulis.
It is also the host plant of Mononychus schoenherrii Kolenati (a weevil that feeds on the seeds of the iris).
After being administered via intraperitoneal injection to diabetic mice in amounts of 300 mg/kg, blood glucose levels decreased by 43.75%, and by 29.61% in non-diabetic mice.
Kevin Collins of the Banksia Farm recalled that for many years pale seeds were discarded by seed collectors, who thought they were infertile.
Many of the trees in the avenue of jacarandas, at Grafton, were grown from seed of the trees that she grew in the garden of the Fells' home, 'Rostrevor', at Northwood.
Common names include coolamon, watermelon tree, durobby and robby; it is also called "rose apple" but this can refer to many species of Syzygium.
Taxonomy The specific epithet pontica, refers to the Latin term for Pontus, a historical region near the Black Sea where the tree is found.
Taxonomy The species was formerly placed in Hibiscus as Hibiscus huegelii, taking its name from Charles von Hügel (Baron von Huegel).
Description Melaleuca nesophila is a large shrub or small tree growing to 4.7–6 m (20–20 ft) in height by 4–5 m (10–20 ft) in width.
The Shirley poppy is an annual ornamental cultivar group derived from the European wild field poppy (Papaver rhoeas).
Lolium multiflorum (Italian rye-grass, annual ryegrass) is a ryegrass native to temperate Europe, though its precise native range is unknown.
is well defined as its own monophyletic group, including species from the genera Cyrtomidictyum, Cyrtogonellum, Cyrtomium, and Phanerophlebia.
There is an alternative theory suggesting the name originates from the Persian word نرگس (nargis), which also denotes an intoxicating quality associated with the plant.
The pollen resulting from the hairs on the leaves and flowers of Western sycamores can be allergens for some people.
The flowers are borne in panicles in leaf axils up to 280 mm (11 in) long, each flower on a pedicel 5–10 mm (0.20–0.39 in) long.
They are in the same family (Melastomataceae) as a native shrub Melastoma affine, which is known as native lasiandra.
Haworthia cooperi is a diverse and varied species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, endemic to the Eastern Cape Province in South Africa.
Spiraea salicifolia, the bridewort, willow-leaved meadowsweet, spice hardhack, or Aaron's beard, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
The genus is closely related to the southern African genus Strelitzia and the South American genus Phenakospermum.
Its fruit, the world's largest fig (syconium), up to 18 cm (7 in) in diameter are edible but rarely eaten except as an emergency food.
A small number of trees have been planted in gardens of California and private collections in Spain, and all of them have acclimatized in those lands.
yedoensis Matsumura has yet been heard." In 1932, Koidzumi discovered that Yoshino cherry (currently identified as king cherry) along with the cherry which was found by Taquet were growing naturally and reported that Yoshino cherry is originated on Jeju island.
Haworthiopsis limifolia, formerly Haworthia limifolia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asphodelaceae.
Botanist Karl Moritz Schumann named it after Wilhelm Lenninghaus (1845-1918), a native of North Rhine-Westphalia who, in the 1880s, left his hometown of Ennepetal and emigrated to Porto Alegre, Brazil, where he became Guillermo Lenninghaus, and collected cacti for the German grower Haage.
This is well seen in the case of the colours of the Shirley Poppies, one of the subjects with reference to which copious statistics have been amassed and published".
Primary hybrids Of these, A, U and Sc groups are sometimes lumped together as Species Derived (Sppd).
It is endemic to dry areas of the State of Nuevo León in northeastern Mexico and can also be found in Spain and Italy.
Habitat It grows on the dry grasslands of the steppes, or on the dry stony slopes of the lower mountain belt.
It prefers well-drained or alkaline soils rich in nutrients and humus with good water provision, but is extremely tough and adaptable.
Hibiscus 'Albo Lacinatus' is a cultivar of Hibiscus that was hybridized no later than the late 1700s or early 1800s, making it one of the earliest Hibiscus cultivars.
The performance of most genotypes of Papaver somniferum is very susceptible to environmental changes.
Common names include Neapolitan garlic, Naples garlic, daffodil garlic, false garlic, flowering onion, Naples onion, Guernsey star-of-Bethlehem, star, white garlic, and wood garlic.
Aloidendron dichotomum, formerly Aloe dichotoma, the quiver tree or kokerboom, is a tall, branching species of succulent plant, indigenous to Southern Africa, specifically in the Northern Cape province of South Africa, and parts of Southern Namibia.
They measure 10 to 15 centimetres (4 to 6 in) in diameter and their shape is superficially similar to hibiscus flowers.
Distribution and habitat It is native to Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, and it has been introduced to the Canary Islands, Morocco, Eritrea, Ethiopia, South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.
Health risks Like all Narcissus species, daffodils contain the alkaloid poison lycorine, mostly in the bulb, but also in the leaves.
Varieties It is a relatively widespread species, with several known varieties, including arcana, gigantea, glaucophylla, keithii, striata, ubomboensis.
Latin species name multipartitus means divided into several or many parts, referring to the shape of the flower; it comes from multi- + partitus, past participle of partire 'to divide', from part-, pars 'part'.
Spanning approximately 5.5 miles (8.9 km), the trail provides a continuous off-road connection between northeastern Austin and the suburb of Manor and follows the proposed Capital Metro Green Line, linking to the larger Southern Walnut Creek Trail system.
Picnic tables can be found outdoors in many public parks, residential back yards, rest areas, campgrounds, amusement parks, and many other places.
The canal "would be cut in a V-shape, with a concrete base and grassy slope," with intersections only at President, Victory, DeRenne and Montgomery Crossroad.
In 1980, to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Alberta and the legacy of the former Buffalo National Park, four bison from Elk Island National Park were moved to Wainwright.
See also Protected areas of the United States List of long-distance footpaths Long-distance trails in the United States References Further reading Karen Berger, Bart Smith (photography), and Bill McKibben (foreword): America's Great Hiking Trails.
A fourth gun was salvaged by the British Government and taken back to England but it is unclear where it is now located.
History Royal Hibernian Military School The Royal Hibernian Military School was founded in 1769 as the Hibernian Asylum by the Hibernian Society, a philanthropic organisation founded in Ireland in 1769 after the Seven Years' War.
This is the only French-style garden created by this landscape architect, and the only 19th century park to have a French-style part.
The park was officially opened on 6 September 1996, although it had been open to the public since December 1995; in 1998, it was added to the Civic District Heritage Trail.
The tomb was repaired in 1973 and in the 1990s, including the addition of a concrete block to support the capstone.
Some are open-air museums – heritage parks – devoted to depiction of daily life or occupational activity at a particular time and place, and may feature re-creations of typical buildings of an era.
Lathkill Dale is known for its range of wildflower species (including orchids and the rare Jacob's ladder), butterflies, ancient woodland and the presence of birds of prey, dippers, woodpeckers and water voles.
The greening of such alleys or laneways can also involve the planting of native plants to further absorb rain water and moderate temperature.
Examples include Ballincollig Regional Park (managed by Cork City Council), Millennium Regional Park (Fingal County Council), and Malahide Demesne Regional Park (also Fingal County Council).
The Serpentine Galleries are two contemporary art galleries in Kensington Gardens, Westminster, Greater London.
In the 21st century, the Emden Gun in Hyde Park remains a reminder of an important victory for the Australian Navy and the Australian crew involved in the Emden action.
Birmingham Blitz On the night of 11 December 1940, all but the fine tower of St Thomas' and classical west portico was destroyed by German bombs.
The Santa Maria Ship & Museum, a replica of Christopher Columbus's Santa María, was docked on the Scioto River by the park beginning in 1991, as part of the city's 1992 Christopher Columbus Quincentennial Jubilee, celebrating the 500th anniversary of Columbus's voyage to the Americas.
Little excavation work was conducted at Moundville by the Bureau of Ethnology's Division of Mound Exploration, partly because the landowner imposed a fee.
Today it is thought more likely to be a strongly Hellenised Punic cult, perhaps to Demeter or Asclepius-Eshmun.
Columbia Parkway carries US-50 traffic from downtown towards east-side suburbs of Mariemont, Anderson, and Milford, and is a limited access road from downtown to the Village of Mariemont.
Their exhibitions, architecture, education and public programmes attract up to 1.2 million visitors a year.
The series presents the work of an international architect or design team who has not completed a building in England at the time of the Gallery's invitation.
On 14 January 1966, a tractor with a snowplough was clearing the landing strip of snow when it broke through the ice and sank to the bottom of the lake, taking the driver, Walter Wilde (29), with it.
The Sept Îles Archipelago Regional Park (French: Parc régional de l'archipel des Sept Îles) is a proposed protected area in the Côte-Nord region of Quebec, Canada.
It then heads south along Borrowdale to Rosthwaite and crosses the fells to Grasmere and then to Patterdale, returning south to Windermere.
In 1653 the poet and angler Charles Cotton wrote of the ‘Lathkin’: it is by many degrees, the purest and most transparent stream that I ever saw, either at home or abroad, and breeds, it is said, the reddest and best Trouts in England.
Maintenance: Some rangers perform regular maintenance on infrastructure or equipment such as fire rings as part of their duties — especially in preparing for winter closures and spring reopenings.
Index Seminum meaning in Latin "seed index", is a catalog of seeds of wild or cultivated plants offered free of charge or in exchange of seeds of equivalent value by botanical gardens or arboretums.
Crescent Island or Ngo Mei Chau (Chinese: 娥眉洲) is an island of Hong Kong, located southeast of Crooked Island (Kat O) and northeast of Double Island (Wong Wan Chau).
After improvements were made to the Mormon Road wagon route in 1855, it had become what was known as the Los Angeles - Salt Lake Road.
On April 17, 2020, UC Berkeley published its plans for the People's Park Housing Project during its third virtual open house.
In that period, the embankment was reshaped, the paved promenade on the river wall, the stairs, the fountains, the lighting and the first plantings were executed.
Citing the city's Adopt-a-Park program, which encourages residents to keep small parks clean, permission was granted by the program's director.
If opening the ice to public use is possible, and those responsible give it their blessing, specific, demarcated areas of the lake are opened, but never the whole lake.
The museum exhibit claimed the shadow belonged to a 42-year-old woman named Mitsuno Ochi (越智ミツノ, Ochi Mitsuno), but conclusive proof of this claim cannot be determined and the victim's identity remains unknown.
Delta The Nemunas Delta wetlands are considered globally significant and are protected under the Ramsar Convention.
History The land where the park now stands was until the end of the 18th century a swampy area, between the wandering arms of Bega River in the south of the Timișoara Fortress.
The islands are Petite Boule, Grosse Boule, Grande Basque, Petite Basque, île du Corossol, île Manowin and the îlets De Quen.
Park systems are included, but not ranked because park systems are networks that contain multiple parks.
The ranch also had Japanese silkie bantam chickens, Buff Cochin bantams, White King pigeons, "several varieties of pheasants, twelve varieties of doves, and several hundred finches, canaries, and other small birds," and ostriches.
A potential eastward extension of Rail Deck Park to include Oxford Place could place the park among the largest rail deck parks in the world, with a total combined park area of nearly 10.5 hectares (26 acres).
The west of the park is clearly narrowed between Notre-Dame-en-Saint-Melaine to the north and the Anne de Bretagne college to the south; it can be accessed by Place Saint-Melaine, the closest entrance to the center of the city.
The resulting lake is 3,050 acres (1,230 ha) in total area, has 75 miles (121 km) of shoreline, and is 18 miles (29 km) long.
The 583 km2 (225 sq mi) park land was developed for use by Canadian Forces Base Wainwright and comprises the majority of its space.
The train then climbs up a small slope and enters into a pre-lift hill brake run, to reduce stress on the ride.
At the end of the Punic invasion the owners had never recovered it so it had escaped the clutches of the Carthaginians.
Built following plans by Georg Wenzeslaus von Knobelsdorff it arose as a representation of the revived interest in garden architecture.
In some states, such as Illinois, park districts are also authorized to have their own park police departments, independent of the other local police departments or state or national park police.
Heyns notified the media via a press release that the university would build a fence around the property and begin construction.
Its source is located at 39°56′52″N 111°40′37″W, the confluence of Shram Creek and an unnamed creek that flows through the Frank Young Canyon.
2024 California Supreme Court decision On June 6, 2024, the California Supreme Court unanimously sided with the university in an appeal to begin construction on the site.
Park Place (formerly Molson Park) is a power centre located in the south end of Barrie, Ontario, Canada.
State statutes often have a general law to provide for park districts' creation, dissolution, geographic borders, and annexation; the selection of governing boards, often referred to as park boards; and the criteria for levying property taxes on behalf of the district.
History Since the establishment of Haddenham & Thame Parkway station in 1987, there have been calls for a safe walking and cycling link between Haddenham and Thame.
See also List of parks in Columbus, Ohio References External links Official website Scioto Mile page
Concert venue In 1987, the Toronto-based Edgefest began looking for a new open-air venue to support large acts.
It claims on its website to have the largest membership of any polo club in Europe, and is one of the four polo clubs in the United Kingdom that stage elite high goal tournaments; the others are the Cirencester Park, Cowdray Park and Royal County of Berkshire Polo Club.
On February 3, 2025, Westside Park was renamed to Shirley Clarke Franklin Park, in honor of the former mayor of Atlanta.
It is not waymarked, but is recognised by the Long Distance Walkers Association, and by several commercial companies which offer packaged walking holidays over the route.
It is also a popular tourist attraction since it is much closer to the centre of the city than the larger Soviet war memorial at Treptower Park.
History The road originally opened as Dart Boulevard on June 16, 1987 as a two-mile stretch between U.S.
The area contained a building for public balls and concerts as well as a park, and was used for balls, concerts, fire works, military parades and all sorts of artists performances against an entrance fee.
In the centre of the delta lies Lithuania's largest island, Rusnė Island (5 km²), and its eponymous village.
The creation of the botanical garden and its collection of plants was the work of Professor Jean Danthon.
Grace had a fondness for horticulture and studied art and horticulture at The Ohio State University.
History Biography and memorial plans Sonny Bono was an entertainer whose acting and singing with his wife, Cher, made him a celebrity during the 1960s and 1970s.
An old mill pond with a many stepped weir and a few mill stones are all that remains of Carters Mill (an old corn mill).
Description "Parks" in this context may be broadly defined by some systems in this context and may include forests, wildlife preserves, deserts, beaches, and even protected culturally/historically important manmade environments and monuments.
The park suffered from its breeding success and the limited understanding of how to manage such wildlife populations.
See also Paleontology Prehistoric life Timeline of geography, paleontology, biology Synchrotron X-ray tomographic microscopy Fossil Parks of India List of fossil sites == References ==
Following Ferreira Leal's rearrangement of the park, the Passeio quickly become a social meeting place for the aristocracy of Lisbon.
The endangered Gurney's pitta (Hydrornis gurneyi) was rediscovered in the area of the proposed park in 2003.
Attractions Alma Park Zoo was fully landscaped with walking paths through tropical gardens under a canopy of rainforest trees and plants.
History Natural urban beaches by the sea have attracted both tourists and locals for a long time, such as the Copacabana of Rio, the central beach of San Sebastián, or the City Beach in Stralsund.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
A diversion of certain paths was carried out in 2010 around the cedar near the menagerie, in order to preserve the roots.
Two proposals were considered, but the preferred design consisted of a semicircular concept, with the centre containing a water feature and shrubs of the national colours planted around the park.
It consists of approximately 56,000 acres (230 km2) and is the largest privately owned nature preserve in the Southeastern United States.
The monument and its tanks are a background feature of Rory's jet-lagged run in Tom Hanks' short story "A Junket in the City of Light".
The Office of Public Works stated that the damage had resulted from the failure of the earlier repairs.
This variety of species is joined by brown trout, char and rainbow trout where the streams enter the lake, and by eels and burbot on the lake bed.
The conches on the sides, arranged into the shape of waterfalls and the great shell inside, made from many real shells, are a characteristic theme of Rococo.
The trail began as the Okeechobee Segment of the Florida National Scenic Trail (FNST), a 1,000 mile trail that runs from Miami to Pensacola.
In addition, it is possible that a moraine (deposit of rock material that is transported with the glacier) prevents the runoff.
Puente de Vallecas Parque Lineal del Manzanares (also in Usera); 97.3 ha in the municipality of Madrid.
The ancient texts of India refer to Mandala Vatikas that were dedicated to deities such as Ganesha, Durga, Lakshmi, Shiva, Kartikeya, to planets and even to constellations (Nakshatra Vana), so that individuals could meditate in these groves.
History The park is located in land previously part of the San Luis farm, which was expropirated by the government of President Eduardo Frei Montlava which was sold to the Las Condes Municipality.
The reserve serves as a haven for the locally threatened gopher tortoise, an inhabitant of longleaf pine forests.
La Demajagua functions as a museum of site and collaborates with local schools, particularly in Manzanillo, to promote historical education.
A park may feature walking paths and decorative landscaping, while a park intended to provide recreation for children may include a playground.
At the entrance, on the ground, is a plaque that reads as follows: IN MEMORY OF MY FRIEND SONNY BONO 1935-1998; ENTERTAINER - ENTREPRENEUR - STATESMAN - FRIEND.
Little Switzerland and tourism The Little Switzerland term refers to the coast and countryside around Lynton and Lynmouth, including the Valley of Rocks, Watersmeet and Heddon Valley.
A similar project in Metro Manila, the Pasig River Esplanade, is a planned 25-kilometre (16-mile) linear park, of which about 1.1 km (0.68 mi) have been completed in several sections.
The tunnel was originally built by the Great Southern and Western Railway company to connect Kingsbridge station to the Dublin Docklands, and primarily used for freight.
Access European route E60 București – Moviliţa – Urziceni – National road DN2A Slobozia – Țăndărei – Giurgeni – bridge Giurgeni-Vadu Oii == References ==
As of 2015, the park, covering an area of 108,000 hectares (1,080 km2), was projected to be open by 2021.
While the walls prevent wind damage to the fruit, they also retain nighttime humidity, creating a microclimate within the garden that is much cooler and more humid than the surrounding environment.
John Knox, president of the Vancouver Southsiders, described Empire as their ancestral home and that "it gave us a taste of the experience our parents and their parents had when going to matches in Vancouver." TransLink served the stadium with the routes 28 and 135.
In 1999, Haddenham Safe Walking and Cycling group, also known as HaddSWAC, was established by Robyn Thorogood to campaign for this link.
Taylorsville Lake State Park is a public recreation area encompassing more than 1,650 acres (670 ha) in Spencer County, Kentucky, roughly midway between Louisville and Lexington.
During World War II the pool was drained and part of Chestnut Avenue was used for Camp Griffiss, the first headquarters of SHAEF and the base where D-Day was planned.
Serpentine South Serpentine South, previously known as the Serpentine Gallery, was established in 1970 and is housed in a Grade II listed former tea pavilion built in 1933–34 by the architect James Grey West.
There are several buildings within the park, such as the My Art Space, a studio-cafe that hosts art classes.
She was responsible for identifying the plant Gelsemium elegans as a possible cause of the poisoning of Alexander Perepilichny in 2015.
The Austin to Manor Trail is a multi-use cycling and pedestrian trail in Travis County, Texas, United States.
Gallery See also List of individual trees References External links Media related to Hollow Tree at Wikimedia Commons
Around 1800 the official name was changed to Batthyány-erdő (Batthyány Forest) after its tenants, the Batthyány family.
National Association of State Park Directors is an organization dedicated to the preservation of state parks in the United States.
In 1988 the Wildlife Institute of India recommended that Mannarkkadu Valley 225.00 km2 be established as a protected area.
Overview The Club is based at Smiths Lawn, in Windsor Great Park, which is thought to have been named after a game keeper at the time of the Stuart Restoration.
PVC is a plastic that is a rot proof alternative to wood, and is often used on homes to prevent rot or siding damage.
History After World War II, many communities in the United States were designed to facilitate easy and fast access to destinations via automobile.
(Wilder was later sold to Memorial for expansion.) July: The Corps of Engineers determined that potential flooding was a factor as to whether the road should be built.
When the elder Raisley Calvert died in 1791, his sons inherited his substantial assets and land holdings in Keswick, including the family home, Greta Bank.
Mound Excavations at Moundville: Architecture, Elites, and Social Order (University of Alabama Press; 2010) 404 Knight, Vernon James Jr.
He was born in Greystoke, Cumberland, where his father—also called Raisley—was steward for the Duke of Norfolk's estate at Greystoke Castle.
It is important that the origin of the seeds is well specified, clarifying whether they were collected outside or inside the botanical garden itself.
Simmonds identified sesame in the food from Pret a manger eaten by Natasha Ednan-Laperouse before her allergic reaction and death in 2016.
In 2008, FEDENATUR promoted a Recommendation – that was approved- at the IUCN World Congress in favour of protecting periurban natural areas around cities and metropolitan areas.
Set into this dike at one end of the park are flood control machinery and a lock for moving boats into and out of the lake.
In 1814, the count of Ferrières, extraordinary commissioner sent to Brittany by Louis XVIII, decides that the bishop can recover his old pleasure garden: the public promenade is thereby shortened.
The Lake Okeechobee Scenic Trail (LOST) is a 109-mile multi-use path around Lake Okeechobee, the seventh largest lake in the United States and the largest in the state of Florida.
Over 33,000 acres (130 km2) are now protected in the Montgomery County, Maryland portion and provide welcome green space in this urbanized region.
Features Each year the park is features numerous exciting events such as Thunder Over Louisville, Forecastle Festival, WFPK Waterfront Wednesdays, Fridays at the Front, Fourth of July at Waterfront Park, and the Juneteenth Jubilee Celebration.
This route remained the only winter season route to the outside world until the railroad arrived in Utah in the late 1860s.
Asclepius' staff with a snake coiled round it (known as a symbol of the medical professions) was placed at the base of the seal to emphasise the medical interests of the School.
With the support and patronization of Chairman of Summit Group Muhammed Aziz Khan, sculptor Hamiduzzaman Khan began working on the sculptures for the park.
Even in rural areas, greenways provide residents access to open land managed as parks, as contrasted with land that is vegetated but inappropriate for public use, such as agricultural land.
Text of the Open Spaces Act 1906 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
Alberta Parks is a division of the Ministry of Forestry and Parks of the Government of Alberta which is responsible for managing Alberta's provincial parks and protected areas.
Its current appearance is the result of anastylosis (reconstruction using the original material) carried out – controversially – between 1956 and 1959.
However The Cambridge Dictionary of English Place-Names (2004) simply says the reason for the addition is unknown.
The site previously hosted the Pulzor neighborhood, whose residents were primarily engaged in floriculture, producing rosewater and various herbal infusions from flowers and plant roots.
This park is one of the beautiful areas in Barisal with a playground, walkway, helipad, many trees and an adjacent lake.
Location The Cathedral Park is located behind the Metropolitan Cathedral, between the Bega Canal, King Ferdinand Boulevard and 16 December 1989 Boulevard, with a total area of 45,400 m2, of which 38,000 m2 of lawn and trees and 2,900 m2 of alleys.
To accommodate this new hall, the only remaining room in the old house of the estate's last owner had to be repurposed.
The First World War Memorial colonnade, which had been built as part of the Hall of Memory to designs by S.
The New National Gallery, the most significant element of the project, is due to be completed by 2028.
2021 occupation In January 2021, UC Berkeley erected fences around portions of People's Park to take core samples of the soil composition in preparation for construction.
It says "The Selinuntines are victorious thanks to the gods Zeus, Phobos, Heracles, Apollo, Poseidon, the Tyndaridae, Athena, Demeter, Pasicrateia and other gods, but especially thanks to |eus.
As part of the redevelopment plans, a set of Olympic Airways airliners that had remained at the airport since its closure – a Boeing 747, Boeing 727, Boeing 737 and a BAC One-Eleven – were acquired by Lamda Development, with the intention to preserve them and place them on display at the park.
It passes through Ambleside and Coniston, and on via Eskdale, reaching its furthest west on the way to Wasdale.
In 2011, the archaeologist, Andreas Haasis-Berner, published an article stating that they had to date to the period between 700 and 900.
The park includes multiple attractions, including a Children´s Park, Birdcage, Skate park, Rose garden and multiple sport areas.
These physical indicators—such as worn-down keys on a keyboard, chew marks on a pen, or paint transfers on road guardrails—provide an unbiased record of how an object or environment is actually used.
Alex Asase; Alfred A Oteng-Yeboah; George T Odamtten; Monique S J Simmonds; Asase, A.; Oteng-Yeboah, A.A.; Odamtten, G.T.; Simmonds, M.S.J.
For example, the beach of Barcola is connected to the center of Trieste by bus and people of all ages take the opportunity to spend their free time by the sea.
The petition was subsequently denied by the German federal government, which iterated that it would honor the 1990 Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany requiring it to maintain Soviet war memorials.
For something that was in the scheme of life pretty short-term, it was just an incredible relationship." Simon began planning a way to memorialize Bono in the nation's capital as a way to cope with the loss of his friend.
Gutach includes six villages: Gutach Bleibach Siegelau Stollen Kregelbach Oberspitzenbach Twin towns Worthing, United Kingdom External links Official website of the municipality == References ==
NRW announced they hope to hold two further consultations in autumn 2024 and 2025, as the boundaries of the park become more refined.
History In 1960, sisters Grace and Mary Innis purchased a 38-acre slice of land that would become Inniswood Metro Gardens.
In 1984, Inniswood Metro Gardens was open to the public as the eighth Columbus and Franklin County Metro Park.
Monique Sheelagh Jacquard Simmonds (born February 1950) is a British chemist and botanist who is deputy keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Queen Sirikit Botanic Garden (QSBG) is a botanical garden in Mae Rim District, Chiang Mai Province, Thailand.
The rooms for business, reception and coinage were on the first floor, the meeting rooms and cafeteria on the fourth floor, and the boiler room in the basement.
The announcement was made by Toronto Mayor John Tory and Joe Cressy, city councillor representing the Trinity—Spadina ward who described the project as a legacy for the city.
Many influential garden designers of the Italian Renaissance drew inspiration from the novel's garden concepts, incorporating them into their own designs.
2024 incident In 2024, David Ordoñez Castillo, a 17 year old park patron, died following a series of seizures after riding the rollercoaster.
There are four types of trails: the national scenic trails, national historic trails, national recreation trails, and connecting or side trails.
It provides stroke rehabilitation to patients of all ages, inpatient rehabilitation to older people, and residential care to older people.
Enclosed, padded, constrained, low structures may prevent children from taking risks and developing a sense of mastery over their environment.
When conditions appear favourable for the opening the lake, daily ice measurements are taken by the Titisee-Neustadt municipal authorities at three or four places.
The delta undergoes annual flooding, but the greatest threats to its integrity are posed by pollution, agriculture, the fishing industry, and tourism.
While the locations, elements, and uses of pocket parks vary considerably, the common defining characteristic of a pocket park is its small size.
In some jurisdictions, furniture used in public parks is made by prison inmates as part of prison work programs.
The case involved five fields (13 hectares) in south Lancaster, the Moorside Fields, owned by Lancashire County Council.
The Balta Mică a Brăilei Natural Park (Romanian: Parcul Natural Balta Mică a Brăilei) is a protected area (natural park category V IUCN) which is situated in Romania, in Brăila County, on the administrative territory of communes Berteștii de Jos, Chiscani, Gropeni, Mărașu and Stăncuța.
The Grans Octoberfest and the music festival Fjordfesten take place here, as well as a seasonal amusement park (tivoli).
However, pocket parks are typically designed for human use and therefore may only provide limited ecological benefits to non-human species.
Birds ringed at the Cape have been found migrating to Iran, Egypt and even to the Republic of South Africa.
In the 297 years after the statue was relocated to its current site in the park, many of the waterspouts became clogged and only four were functioning before the renovations of 2009/10.
Both the Lions and Whitecaps moved to the newly constructed, then 60,000 seat BC Place for the 1983 season.
Badeparken ("the Bathing Park") is a 12-acre (4.8 ha) public park in the city centre of Sandefjord, Norway.
2022 demolition effort Just after midnight on August 3, 2022, the UC Berkeley Police Department and contractors began fencing off People's Park.
Fishing is the main attraction, as Taylorsville Lake is the most heavily stocked lake in the Commonwealth of Kentucky; it is known for its bluegill, and features bass and crappie.
Europe Gardening was not recognized as an art form in Europe until the mid 16th century when it entered the political discourse, as a symbol of the concept of the "ideal republic".
From October 2012 to March 2013, Los Angeles research collaborative Parklet Studies to design and implement a one-year study of the Parklets in downtown Los Angeles.
List of botanical gardens See also List of botanical gardens in India List of botanical gardens Ministry of Environment and Forests (India) References External links Botanic Garden Conservation International's garden search database
A sculpture garden may be private, owned by a museum and accessible freely or for a fee, or public and accessible to all.
The plants were sourced from Indonesia, Malaysia, and other nearby countries as well as Queensland, Australia, for the foxtail palm trees.
The Donnafugata Garden On 12 September 2008, the Fondo Ambiente Italiano (Italian Environment Fund) received a donation of a Pantellerian garden from the Sicilian winery Donnafugata.
In 2015, Hélène Littke noted that the "High Line in New York City started a worldwide trend of elevated parks", and new elevated parks are often compared to it.
Some have claimed that transportation engineers in the US have become too focused on separating cyclists from pedestrians and motorists.
It is to include a park as well as luxury homes, hotels, a casino, a marina, shops, and offices and will have Greece's tallest buildings reaching up to 200 metres (660 ft) in height.
The site had been a place where one could find trash, weeds, and rats, making it an unsightly area of the neighborhood.
An iPad-only application, iSOPARC, is developed by CIAFEL, a research center at the University of Porto, with the contribution of Dr.McKenzie, the original developer of SOPARC.
1974 April: The project was approved as an official project for study by the State Tollways Authority.
The Hellinikon Metropolitan Park (also called "the Ellinikon") is an urban development under construction in Hellinikon, Athens, Greece, on the site of the former Hellenikon International Airport.
This park also displays several diesel engines, valves, and pipes that once were part of the flood control facility.
There is a group of such burials, having mounds of similar size and situated on a hilltop or similar location.
Their height can vary from one to over three meters, depending on the size of the plants grown within them (almost always citrus fruits).
Prior to post-World War II border changes, it was known in German as the Memel Niederung, as the Neman was for centuries called the Memel in German.
Lucky Tor An island divides the flow, with a long boulder garden down the left, and easy rapids to a steeper exit on the right.
They claimed the consultants - Wilbur Smith and Associates and Howard, Needles, Tammen and Bergendoff - have provided studies for toll roads in Florida that were failing financially.
The plan was a portion of the extensive Beltline project to construct a ring of parks, trails, and transit surrounding the core of Atlanta.
The Neptune Grotto (German: Neptungrotte) close to the Obelisk entrance in Sanssouci Park, Potsdam, was created by Frederick the Great between 1751 and 1757 (1757) to beautify the park.
Landscape architect George Kessler designed extensive parkway systems for Kansas City, Missouri; Memphis, Tennessee; Indianapolis; and other cities at the beginning of the 20th century.
$5–6 million was estimated for its repairs, and with the extensive renovation of the Scioto's riverfront, the ship had to be relocated.
Leaves The unique characteristics of Garrya elliptica are its waxy convex leaves with wavy leaf margins, coupled with dense individual hairs on the leaf undersides that are scarcely distinguishable with a hand lens.
Charred remains of cowpeas have been found in rock shelters located in Central Ghana dating to the 2nd millennium BCE.
Description Myrtillocactus geometrizans is a large shrubby cactus growing to 4–5 m tall, with candelabra-like branching on mature plants.
Leaf juice is gently applied around the eyes for eye disorders and is also used in hair care, where a paste of ber, amla (Phyllanthus emblica) and neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves is applied to the scalp.
Cultivation Heuchera maxima is also cultivated as an ornamental plant for traditional, drought tolerant, native plant, and wildlife gardens.
Companion planting is thought by its practitioners to assist in the growth of one or both plants involved in the association.
Distribution and habitat The plant is widespread across most of Canada, the United States (including Alaska but excluding Florida), and northeast Mexico.
Uses This species, and most buckwheats (Eriogonum sp.), are of special value to butterflies and native bees.
A bodega cat, also known as a deli cat, store cat, shop cat, is a type of working cat that inhabits a bodega, which in New York City English refers to a convenience store or deli.
This mineral ranks a 5 on Mohs scale of mineral hardness, though it is considered brittle, exhibiting conchoidal fracture when broken.
The development also won the 2013 National Federation of Roofing Contractors Sustainable Roof Award for Green Roofing.
The genus is also widespread over the high eastern plains of South Africa, where it was introduced via contaminated horsefeed during the Anglo-Boer War.
See also Integrated pest management Pest (organism) Pesticide Pheromones Codling moth == References ==
Eriogonum arborescens is a species of wild buckwheat known by the common name Santa Cruz Island buckwheat.
During the Nationalist era when the Kuomintang ruled mainland China, as well as Chinatown in Singapore, the night soil collector usually arrived with spare and relatively empty honey buckets to exchange for the full honey buckets.
As a rule of thumb, the foraging area around a beehive extends for two miles (3.2 km), although bees have been observed foraging twice and three times this distance from the hive.
With both vetches, their agricultural usefulness is typically given precedence over concerns regarding potential ecological degradation.
Yucca angustissima is a low-lying species forming colonies of basal rosettes up to 3 m (10 feet) in diameter.
Cuttings made from roots that are "pencil-sized" will develop into plants when started in late autumn or early winter.
This genus is noted for its disproportionately high number of noxious weeds compared to other flowering plant genera.
Description Curio rowleyanus receives its common name from specialized leaves which are the size and shape of small peas (about 6 mm or 1⁄4 inch diameter).Its trailing stems can grow 2–3 feet (60–90 cm).
While once favored by professional and low-handicap players, they are now obsolete, replaced by newer Surlyn and urethane technology.
In 2002, Bayer CropScience was formed through Bayer's acquisition of the plant biotech branch Aventis CropScience.
Linanthus androsaceus) is a species of flowering plant in the phlox family known by the common name of false babystars.
The leaves are bunched in tight tufts with plants forming a very tussocky, low sward 5 to 20 cm tall before flowering, to 30 cm high.
The inflorescence is a raceme of urn-shaped flowers very similar to those of the related shrubs, the manzanitas.
The fruit is a juicy red or purple cherry 7–14 mm (1⁄4–1⁄2 in) diameter, which, as the plant's English name suggests, are bitter.
This species was the first magnolia to be cultivated in England, although it was soon overshadowed by the evergreen, larger-flowered southern magnolia (M.
Black gram is one of the key ingredients in making idli and dosa batter, in which one part of black gram is mixed with three or four parts of idli rice to make the batter.
Common names include redvein abutilon, red vein Indian mallow, redvein flowering maple, Chinese-lantern and red vein Chinese lanterns.
Important sponsors of the meeting are Andermatt Group, BASF, Bayer, Biobest, Biogard, De Sangosse, Koppert, Monsanto Bio AG, Oro Agri, Sumitomo, Syngenta, Vallent Biosciences.
Table of isolated biogenic compounds Abiogenic (opposite) An abiogenic substance or process does not result from the present or past activity of living organisms.
The evergreen leaves are oppositely arranged and up to 5 centimeters long, rounded to oval in shape.
Once it has invaded an area, Lonicera japonica grows rapidly and outcompetes native plants for sunlight and nutrients.
It is especially common in second growth, Douglas-fir or western redcedar forests, making use of those pools of sunlight that intermittently reach the ground.
Despite Marggraf's success in isolating sugar from beets, it did not lead to commercial beet sugar production.
For these reasons, ASP's are typically implemented at sites composting putrescible feedstocks (manures, biosolids or food waste) with a higher potential for adverse environmental impact.
Square foot gardening is the practice of dividing the growing area into small square sections, typically 1 foot x 1 foot (30cm x 30cm).
To encourage a variety of different crops in succession, and to discourage pests, each square is used for a different kind of plant (crop rotation) within the growing season.
Limonium arboreum is a species of sea lavender known by the common name tree limonium and siempreviva.
Polypogon is a nearly cosmopolitan genus of plants in the grass family, commonly known beard grass or rabbitsfoot grass.
Hazards As a main component of orange oil, limonene can dissolve skin oils, potentially causing irritation.
In order to determine where to locate hives for maximum honey production and brood one must consider the off-season.
Description Plant The stems are scandent (climbing habit), creeping, sprawling or clambering, and branch profusely.
The thick, wrinkly blades are divided into three to five toothed lobes, and are hairy, glandular, and aromatic.
The sweetly-scented flowers are 3–7 cm (1–3 in) across with five to eight pure white petals and a cluster of yellow stamens.
Uses Japanese honeysuckle flowers are edible to humans and appreciated for their sweet-tasting nectar.
Fruits average 88.0% water, and their dry weight includes 8.3% carbohydrates and 9.0% lipids, which is one of the highest lipid values among European fleshy fruits.
Extensive outcrops of Arizona flagstone are also found in Mohave, Coconino, Yavapai, Navajo, Apache, and Gila counties.
Taxonomy Rubber rabbitbrush was moved from the genus Chrysothamnus to the genus Ericameria in a 1993 paper.
Since most cockroaches remain in the sewer system and sheltered areas which are inaccessible to insecticides, employing active-hunter wasps is a strategy to try and reduce their populations.
Ground bay leaves, however, can be ingested safely and are often used in soups and stocks, as well as being a common addition to a Bloody Mary.
Bouteloua curtipendula, commonly known as sideoats grama, is a perennial, short prairie grass that is native throughout the temperate and tropical Western Hemisphere, from Canada south to Argentina.
The process of microbial proliferation within a body is referred to as putrefaction and leads to the second stage of decomposition known as bloat.
However, Limoniastrum monopetalum is now the only recorded species found growing in the oil-contaminated soil, since 2002.
Trass was formerly worked extensively in the Brohl valley and is now obtained from the valley of the Nette, near Andernach.
Distribution The species can be found in the eastern half of Africa, from southern Sudan, and South-Sudan to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Gabon, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
quadrifolia Randell (N.T., S.A., Qld.) has cylindrical petioles 15–25 mm (0.59–0.98 in) long, the leaflets narrowly elliptic, 20–50 mm (0.79–1.97 in) long and 2–10 mm (0.079–0.394 in) wide.
Taxonomy Five subspecies are currently recognised, although intermediate forms are commonly found: Clarkia amoena subsp.
It is endemic to the four northern Channel Islands of California, within Channel Islands National Park.
The glumes are 7–12 millimetres (0.28–0.47 in) long, usually without an awn or with only a short one.
Breeding has been eased by discovery of a cytoplasmic male sterility line – this has especially been useful in yield breeding.
Eutrochium maculatum, the spotted Joe Pye weed, is a North American species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae.
Cultivation As an annual wildflower, Mentzelia lindleyi is cultivated as an ornamental plant in traditional flower beds, drought tolerant and habitat gardens, and desert rock gardens.
Born of Eugene's radical political organizing community in the late 1990s, Food Not Lawns was founded in 1999 by Heather Jo Flores and colleagues of the Eugene Food Not Bombs chapter.
In California, the ice plant is found in coastal habitats from north of Eureka, south at least as far as Rosarito in Baja California.
The calyx is tubular or campanulate, they are slightly curved or straight, and the limbs are often 2-lipped with five teeth.
The worker bees in the colony mix dry pollen with nectar and/or honey with their enzymes, and naturally occurring yeast from the air.
During the wood oxidation process; microorganisms, mainly bacteria and fungi, degrade wood substrate into CO2, H2O, and subsequently release heat in the presence of oxygen.
See also Hyperaccumulator List of hyperaccumulators Permaculture References External links The Facts about Dynamic Accumulators Does Comfrey Really Improve Soil?
Oils from the families Lamiaceae (mints), Poaceae (true grasses), and Pinaceae (pines) are common haematophagous insect repellents worldwide.
Description Prunus pensylvanica grows as a shrub or small tree, usually with a straight trunk and a narrow, round-topped crown.
Uses Vigna mungo is popular in Northern India, largely used to make dal from the whole or split, dehusked seeds.
Ceanothus arboreus is a species of perennial shrub to small tree in the family Rhamnaceae, commonly known as the feltleaf ceanothus, island ceanothus, and island mountain lilac.
Though debate between botanists on the correct classification continues in the 21st Century, as of 2023 the most common place ment of the species is again in Berberis as Berberis nevinii.
Description The grass-like plant is typically smaller than other Dasylirions, with small crowns and trunks usually less than 1.5 feet, with long foliage reaching 3–6 ft.
Conglomerates are widely distributed in sedimentary rock of all ages, but usually as a minor component, making up less than 1% of all sedimentary rock.
Distribution and habitat The plant is found in the California Coast Ranges, San Francisco Bay Area, and San Joaquin Valley of California; and in Arizona.
Nevadaite is a rare phosphate mineral with a chemical formula of Characteristics Nevadaite is a pale-green to turquoise colored mineral belonging to the phosphate group.
Limbing can happen at the stump in log/tree length systems and cut-to-length systems or at the landing in whole-tree logging.
Location Nevadaite was first discovered in the Gold Quarry mine near the town of Carlin, Eureka County, Nevada.
Like most succulents, it requires very infrequent watering (about once a month), a few hours of direct sunlight and is not affected by humidity.
They also found a way to make plant cells resistant to the antibiotic kanamycin by transferring a bacterial neomycin phosphotransferase gene into the plant genome.
cerulea is cultivated as an ornamental plant by plant nurseries, for planting in traditional, native plant, and habitat gardens.
Vigna hosei, also known as the sarowak bean, is a perennial legume that grows in low-lying, humid, tropical areas but more commonly disturbed or roadside areas.
The use of compost, manure mulch and other organic fertilizers yields a higher organic content of soils on organic farms and helps limit soil degradation and erosion.
If the lines are allowed to drain between pulses, most of the water will preferentially flow to those at the beginning of the line.
Cultivation Carpenteria californica is cultivated as an ornamental plant, grown for its lush foliage, large scented flowers and drought tolerance.
After significant difficulty in cultivating this species in the laboratory, it was released once in 1993 and has not established in New Zealand.
It has clusters of four to eight flowers with petals 7–10 mm (0.28–0.39 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods 60–70 mm (2.4–2.8 in) long and 9–12 mm (0.35–0.47 in) wide.
Many of these bird-attracting plants are ornamental as well, since many have pretty fruits, red in color and often clinging to their branches far into the winter, furnishing grateful additions to the meager fare of hard-weather birds.
It endures shade in early life and light shade when mature; shade tolerance appears to be greater with increased soil moisture.
Taxonomy The Latin specific epithet jacquemontii refers to the French botanist and geologist Victor Jacquemont (1844–1912).
When used as a protection against the wind the fleece is wrapped around, or covered over the delicate plants to protect them from frost and cold wind.
Some particulates not filtered out by the grass filter strip or the sand bed settle within the ponding area.
(= Bignonia radicans, or Tecoma radicans) Catalpa bignonioides Walter Catalpa speciosa Warder ex Engelm.
As it matures, the plant will grow a small stalk or trunk at the base with the foliage growing out of the top.
Uses Indigenous Californians use the twigs of the western redbud to weave baskets, and even prune the shrub to encourage growth of new twigs.
Lavandula pinnata (also known as fernleaf lavender and jagged lavender) is a species of flowering plant in the mint family, Lamiaceae, native to southern Madeira and the Canary Islands (Lanzarote).
ISBN 1-85383-150-6 Whealy, Kent; Garden Seed Inventory: An Inventory of Seed Catalogs Listing All Non-Hybrid Vegetable Seeds Available in the United States and Canada, Seed Savers Exchange, 2005.
kanabensis Archived 2013-11-23 at the Wayback Machine Gartendatenbank, Gabriele Jesdinsky, Berlin, Palmlilien (Yucca angustissima) Archived 2015-09-24 at the Wayback Machine Sunshine Seeds, Ahlen Germany, Yucca angustissima, Palmlilie, Yucca
Cultivation This drought-tolerant and dramatic Dasylirion is cultivated by nurseries for use in both personal gardens as well as public or corporate xeric landscapes, mainly in the Southwestern United States (from Texas west to California).
Ecology It is a larval host to the ursine giant skipper, yucca giant skipper, and various yucca moths, including Tegeticula baccatella.
LECA has an approximately round or oblong shape due to circular movement in the kiln and is available in different sizes and densities.
In Nigeria, the seeds are prized for their bitter flavor; they are commonly added to sauces or eaten as a fried snack.
Hill Department of Entomology Macdonald College Cass County Extension Companion Planting List Companion Planting Infographic
In the autumn, it produces large (30–70 cm long by 20–30 cm wide) effuse inflorescences (clusters on a stalk) of tiny red and purple spikelets (the type of flower seen in grasses).
davidii is widely marketed throughout the United States, where it has reportedly become invasive in some, but not all, areas within which it has been planted.
Flowers The inflorescences are panicles emerging from the twigs opposite a leaf, up to 3 cm (1.2 in) long, the ultimate segments umbellate and crowded.
Phytoremediation Polypogon monspeliensis was investigated for its mercury-accumulating properties as a phytoremediation plant.
The green or yellow flowers are borne on spikes which resemble a medieval mace, and stand up to 2 m (6 ft 7 in) high.
Nepeta species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera (butterfly and moth) species including Coleophora albitarsella, and as nectar sources for pollinators, such as honey bees and hummingbirds.
Their benefits include: a 0-day pre-harvest interval (see: maximum residue limit), success under moderate to severe disease pressure, and the ability to use as a tank mix or in a rotational program with other fungicides.
In addition, a branch may be supporting the tree, and the tree can fall or roll when the branch is cut.
Together with other species in Mimulus section Erythranthe, it serves as a model system for studying pollinator-based reproductive isolation.
Biomeiler has been paid a lot of attention and the number of biomeiler has increased dramatically in the world.
It spreads beyond landscape plantings and has invaded foredune, dune scrub, coastal bluff scrub, coastal prairie, and, most recently, maritime chaparral communities.
At one time Brazil was considered to be where it originated, but its diploid chromosome count now points to Mexico as its place of origin.
macrourus – few flowered mountain mahogany, California and Oregon Cercocarpus betuloides is sometimes treated as a part of Cercocarpus montanus, var.
Setts, also called Belgian blocks, are often referred to as "cobbles", although a sett is distinct from a cobblestone by being quarried and shaped into a regular form, while cobblestones are naturally occurring rounded forms less uniform in size.
This is a list of undomesticated or feral plants, generally considered weeds, yet having some positive effects or uses, often being ideal as companion plants in gardens.
Netafim is headed by President & CEO Gaby Miodownik, and jointly owned by Orbia (80%) and Kibbutz Hatzerim (20%), following extensive bidding by half a dozen interested parties, including U.S.
(1993), The Jepson Manual: higher plants of California, Berkeley and Los Angeles, California: University of California Press, ISBN 0-520-082559 Hogan, C.
The two biflavonoids, 3′-O-methyl loniflavone and loniflavone, along with luteolin and chrysin, can be isolated from the leaves.
During the Oligocene geologic uplift and an altering climate restricted a majority of the group arbutoideae to western North America.
Bouteloua repens, colloquially known as slender grama, is a grass species in the grama genus native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico.
This specific behavior has also been documented in Dominican amber fossils dating back 15 million years ago, with queens of the fossil species Acropyga glaesaria being found preserved with species of the extinct mealybug genus Electromyrmococcus.
perfoliatum described as an "unapproved homeopathic medicine" with unknown safety by the US National Library of Medicine.
Distribution and habitat Yarrow is native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, being found in Europe, Asia, and North America.
(The digestive systems of ruminants such as cattle and sheep destroy and use all cellulose in their food, and their droppings remain cold and do not heat up.) Hotbeds employed in gardens are generally simple in application.
See also "The Bitter Withy", a folk song Coppicing Fascine Widmore, London, a suburb named for the withy Willow Man, a sculpture in England References External links Willows in the farming landscape: a forgotten eco-cultural icon (2022)
Bignoniaceae (Trumpet creeper family) All the plants of this family are found mostly in the tropics or subtropics.
It is closely related to the similar genus Philadelphus and is monotypic, being represented by the single species Carpenteria californica which is a flowering evergreen shrub native to the Sierra Nevada foothills in California.
Those who received promising omens from the Pythia were crowned with laurel wreaths as a symbol of Apollo's favor.
As with the tie stones, the capstones span the entire width of the wall and prevent it breaking apart.
Like others of its kind, it produces multiple offsets which can be separated from the parents in spring, and grown separately - hence the common name "hen and chicks", applied to several species within the genus Echeveria.
Zaluziansky seems to have been a deservedly prominent botanist in his day, with some views on taxonomy quite advanced for his time.
Berberis nervosa, commonly known as dwarf Oregon-grape, Cascade barberry, Cascade Oregon-grape, or dull Oregon-grape, is a North American flowering plant.
More complex compounds have been isolated, some of which were first identified in this manner, including perovskatone; the glycosides atriplisides A and B; and atricins A and B, a pair of triterpenes that are similar to oleanane.
Description Prunus emarginata is a deciduous shrub or small tree growing to 1–15 metres (3+1⁄2–49 feet) tall; west of the Cascade Range, it commonly reaches 24–30 m (80–100 ft) tall.
Abiogenic products may, e.g., be minerals, other inorganic compounds, as well as simple organic compounds (e.g.
Biodynamic Farming & Gardening Association Irish Organic Farmers and Growers Association (IOFGA) Organic certification and promotion body in Ireland.
Mediterranean On the Mediterranean coast, Carpobrotus has spread out rapidly and now parts of the coastline are completely covered.
Sorbents may be used to collect undesirable ions and act like a reusable ion-exchange resin, composed of charged layers of material that can be heated or otherwise treated to remove pollutants.
Significantly, farmers in developing countries are particularly affected by prohibitions on seed saving.
According to the City of Austin, Dillo Dirt contains levels of heavy metals including arsenic, cadmium, copper, lead, mercury, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, and zinc.
Feces, urine, paper, leaves, other materials for wiping, and potentially anal wash water all go into the pit.
Studies of fenugreek are characterized as having variable, poor experimental design and quality, including small numbers of subjects, failure to describe methods, inconsistency and duration of dosing, and not recording adverse effects.
Cotoneaster horizontalis is a species of flowering plant in the genus Cotoneaster of the family Rosaceae.
Mating disruption, due to the specificity of the sex pheromone of the insect species, has the benefit of only affecting the males of that species, while leaving other non target species unaffected[3].
Modern researchers continue to study whether reduced tillage improves weed control and yield for strawberry plants.
The name sorbent is derived from sorption, which is itself a derivation from adsorption and absorption.
This work in turn cites: Kennard, H., List of Trees, Shrubs, Vines and Herbaceous Plants, native to New England, bearing fruit or seeds attractive to Birds (Reprint from Bird-Lore, v.
Relationship to plant life In locales where gravelly soil is predominant, plant life is generally more sparse.
Considered a permaculture practice, advocates claim that the technique helps to improve soil fertility, water retention, and soil warming, thus benefitting plants grown on or near such mounds.
Distribution and habitat This shrub is endemic to the northern Channel Islands of California except San Miguel Island.
Description Lavandula pinnata is a shrub growing between 18 and 24 inches in height, with opposite, simple, pinnately dissected leaves, and square stems.
Filtration, adsorption, chemical transformation, and biological degradation are the main methods of pollutant treatment in bioretention.
Edmonton EcoPark is a waste-to-energy plant which burns waste from several London boroughs to provide electricity for the National Grid.
It is also used for other applications, such as electromagnetic shielding or low-profile surface mount transmission line in electronics and in the production of tiffany lamps.
It has sword-like leaves more than 1 metre (3 ft) long and it grows a flower spike up to 6 metres (20 ft) high.
Spanish explorers in California called the plant romero, the Spanish term for rosemary, and that common name is still sometimes used in Mexico.
By using the nutrient-rich soil of a retired pit, the arborloo, in effect, treats feces as a resource rather than a waste product.
The term “knap”(1500s) was originally onomatopoeic and meant “strike with a sharp sound” (with the k- pronounced) and later shifted to mean “to shape or work by sharp strikes”.
It has been reported that the Huichol of Mexico use the plant as an entheogen by smoking Tagetes lucida with Nicotiana rustica, and that Tagetes lucida is occasionally smoked alone as an hallucinogen.
Description Wavy hair-grass, Avenella flexuosa, has wiry leaves and delicate, shaking panicles formed of silvery or purplish-brown flower heads on wavy, hair-like stalks.
Larinus is a genus of true weevils, comprising about 180 species, mostly in the Palaearctic region with some species introduced to North America.
According to a more detailed description, Larinus are stocky in shape unlike the related genus Lixus.
Silk fiber: Fiber secreted by glands (often located near the mouth) of insects during the preparation of cocoons.
Leaves are succulent, greyish green and up to 1.8 feet long at a maximum, ending in sharp black spines that are up to 1.2 inches long at the tips.
Origins Sea Island red peas came to the Sea Islands from the Mende of modern Sierra Leone, where from 1750 to 1775, 50,000 enslaved Sub-Saharan Africans, predecessors to the Gullah, were kidnapped.
Cultivation Encelia actoni is cultivated as an ornamental plant for drought tolerant and wildlife gardens, natural landscaping design, and habitat restoration projects.
It has since spread all over North America, apart from the far south of the US and some prairie states and Canadian provinces.
Notable examples include the island of Baljenac, which has 23 kilometres (14 mi) of dry stone walls despite being only 14 hectares (35 acres) in area, and the vineyards of Primošten.
vacciniifolia were an extensive shrub in the Klamath Mountains (at the northern portions of California), which had ultramafic soils.
Taxonomy The genera Photinia, Aronia, Pourthiaea, and Stranvaesia have historically been variously combined by different taxonomists.
Studies have also shown anti-inflammatory properties against pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-ɑ and anti-bacterial properties against macrophages and gram-postivie bacteria.
AMSilk produces a lightweight material trademarked as Biosteel, created from recombinant spider silk, which was used by Adidas to create a biodegradable running shoe.
It was selected from German plantings by the British Notcutts Nurseries, and first exhibited in 1961.
California's seismic risk levels are almost three times as high as New Mexico's, and risk worldwide rises much higher.
Muhlenbergia sericea, synonym Muhlenbergia filipes, known as gulf hairawn muhly or sweetgrass, is a species of grass in the family Poaceae.
The goal of the conference is the exchange of business and scientific experience and presentation of commercial and scientific advances on the subject of the protection of plants and pest control in plant crops by natural (biological) methods, with particular reference to Bioeffectors.
Description Salvia uliginosa is an herbaceous perennial growing up to 3 to 6 feet (0.91 to 1.83 m) tall in one season, with multiple thin stems and yellow-green lance-shaped leaves that have serrated edges.
Beyond that, squarebud daisy displays these vegetative features distinguishing the species: The plant grows up to about 1.2 meters tall (4 feet).
These biocontrol products against plant diseases and pests can be used in the organic production of food as well as in IPM production systems.
In 1996 Jepson defined a California variety with smooth leaves, punctata, in comparison to which Gray's specimens, with pubescent leaves, become the variety fasciculata.
Other trace alkaloids include nicotine and mescaline (the latter of which is found in many cacti but infrequently in other plants).
Black gram has also been introduced to other tropical areas, such as the Caribbean, Fiji, Mauritius, Myanmar and Africa, mainly by Indian immigrants during the Indian indenture system.
It is native to the West Coast and Southwestern United States and Baja California, and is generally found at low elevation in moist areas.
millefolium was used in traditional medicine, in part due to its astringent properties and the mild laxative effect of its leaves.
Bees are able to communicate direction and distance of a food source by means of the round dance, waggle dance and shaking signals.
"Insights into Selective Gas Sorbent Functionality Gained by Using Time-Resolved Neutron Diffraction".
Ribes triste, known as the northern redcurrant, swamp redcurrant, or wild redcurrant, is an Asian and North American shrub in the gooseberry family.
Genetic Modification Techniques This strain was modified using Agrobacterium tumefaciens and plasmid pMHL2113.
Watercress—can be eaten raw or cooked; is considered a weed in some cultures (caution required when harvesting wild because of the risk of contracting potentially fatal liver fluke).
While this idea is quite common and often taprooted plants are used for this reason in companion planting, there is no scientific data supporting it, and the definition itself varies quite depending on the author.
but can be kept smaller/espaliered, has large green leaves splashed boldly with gold, narrow light orange flowers.
Gallery References External links Media related to Senegalia berlandieri at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Acacia berlandieri at Wikispecies
Each individual leaf is composed of 5 to 7 leaflike leaflets, each of which is up to 4–8 cm (1+1⁄2–3+1⁄4 in) (rarely to 16 cm (6+1⁄4 in)) long, lance-shaped to narrowly oval, and irregularly serrated along the edges.
Factors such as temperature, humidity, and the season of death all determine how fast a fresh body will skeletonize or mummify.
Role of Unions: While union membership has declined in recent decades, unions still play a crucial role in the collective bargaining process, representing workers in negotiations with employers.
She received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Radcliffe College of Harvard University in 1987 and a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School in 1992.
The report shocked public opinion and calls were made to imprison, flog and pillory recalcitrant factory owners.
The whole act, except sections 64(1)–(3), 72, 73, 80(3)–(5), 80(13) and 81(14), and the short title in section 115, was repealed by section 133 of, and the seventh schedule to, the National Health Insurance Act 1924 (14 & 15 Geo.
In committee, Lord Ashley moved an amendment to the bill's clause 2, which defined the terms used in subsequent (substantive) clauses; his amendment changed the definition of 'night' to 6 p.m.
Anonymous reporting mechanisms, as mentioned previously, help foster a climate whereby employees are more likely to report or seek guidance regarding potential or actual wrongdoing without fear of retaliation.
This constitutional provision was implemented by the Labor Court Act, which entered into force on October 1, 1953, and established the Federal Labor Court.
Graham amended the educational clauses, but this only triggered a fresh round of indignation meetings and a fresh round of petitions (11,839 petitions and 1,920,574 signatures).
Esping-Andersen traces in this persistency the origins of the chronically high Italian unemployment rates.
In June 2022, the Office of the Chief Justice warned the public that somebody impersonating Mabindla-Boqwana had contacted several people and entities to request private and sensitive information.
Following its creation in 2000 the Global Compact initially focused on support for Ten Principles and the Millennium Development Goals.
Unpaid care and domestic work sustain households and contribute to the reproduction of the labor force across generations.
The Employee Relations Law Journal is a legal journal which publishes articles in the field of labor and employment law.
Romme also worked as an associate professor of labour law at Tilburg University from 1 January 1933 until 1 January 1935 and as a distinguished professor of Labour law, administrative law and constitutional law and at Tilburg University from 1 January 1935 until 24 June 1937.
Part III: Wages, Special Clothing and Records The general minimum increased from $17.40 per hour to $17.85 per hour on June 1, 2025.
The issue to be decided was whether employees of a nationalised industry (in this case British Gas plc) could rely upon the Equal Treatment Directive when making claims in the English courts.
See also Parental leave Garden leave Leisure Paid Educational Leave Convention, 1974 Sabbatical Career break References External links Full Text of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 - FMLA - 29 U.S.
As of April 2024, there were 23,571 pending cases with the labour courts and the Labour Appellate Tribunal.
Subsequent developments The whole act so far as it related to collieries were repealed by section 126 of, and the fourth schedule to, the Coal Mines Act 1911 (1 & 2 Geo.
Finance Both the contributory and non-contributory benefits are financed through a 1.55% contribution by employees and 5,5% by employers on employees salaries up to 3262 euros per month Unemployment Benefits and the Disabled There are many people with disabilities in Spain.
Congress passed China’s Employment Contracts Act in 2007 to provide a specific mass layoff procedure aimed at ensuring transparency, consultation, and regulatory oversight before any mass layoffs proceed.
The centre's mandate include reduction in cost and delays in judicial delivery through efficient, fast and equitable settlement of disputes.
The inspectors reported that magistrates habitually did so, and to an extent which defeated the law; it was more profitable to break the law and pay the occasional fine than to comply with the act.
Edward Sadlowski (September 10, 1938 – June 10, 2018) was an American labor activist associated with Steelworkers Fight Back, a rank-and-file movement against corruption in the international United Steelworkers of America union.
Pakistan According to Section 27 of the Contract Act, 1872, any agreement that restrains a person from exercising a lawful profession, trade or business is void.
Article 16 makes clear that member states may have more favourable provisions and may not regress in standards.
Its promulgation enraged the sans-culottes, who called for an end to the National Constituent Assembly, which nonetheless continued through the second phase of the Revolution.
The authors of the Marjolin Report state: "...the means of redressing imbalances between Community countries should be considerably reinforced….
No progress had been made with the government bill when the death of King William, and the consequent dissolution of parliament, brought the session to an end.
Political career In the late 1960s, Sauquillo joined the clandestine union Acción Sindical de Trabajadores (AST), one of the groups that would give rise, in 1969, to the Workers' Revolutionary Organization (ORT), and would later assume Maoist ideology.
United Kingdom The UK's main piece of legislation falls under the Employment Agencies Act 1973, which required licensing until 1994.
This explains the fact that the Articles 117 and 118 of the European Economic Community treaty are soft in nature, while in contrast the hard Articles 119 and 120 of the EEC treaty have a limited scope.
Night working was forbidden for anyone under 21 and if a mill had been working at night the onus of proof was on the millowner (to show nobody under-age had been employed).
Since 2000, the board has ruled for whistleblowers just three times in 56 cases decided on their merits, according to a Government Accountability Project (GAP) analysis.
Goldstein Memorial Prize in Labor Law and served as an editor of the University of Pennsylvania Law Review.
History of labor law in the United States refers to the development of United States labor law, or legal relations between workers, their employers and trade unions in the United States of America.
Around a hundred employment lawyers signed a petition against it, referring to her lack of experience, notwithstanding the support of the APM.
"Law, Lawyers and Labor: The United Farm Workers’ Legal Strategy in the 1960s and 1970s and the Role of Law in Union Organizing Today." Pennsylvania Journal of Labor & Employment Law.
The anti-gag statute is a little-known legal boundary in the long struggle in the United States between Executive Branch secrecy and the United States Congress and the public's right to know.
After transitioning to law, he clerked for Judge Leonard Garth of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit from 1989 to 1990 and then worked as an associate at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett in New York City.
Recent Asian Regional Congresses were hosted in Manilla and Taipai, and recent European Regional Congresses were held in Stockholm, Bologna, Sevilla (2011) and Dublin (2014).
Under the act, regulations and rules came into force on 2 December 1802 and applied to all textile mills and factories employing three or more apprentices or twenty employees.
Since the cantons in the arrangement of their administrative law are largely autonomous, all cantons have their own regulations for public employment.
ISBN 978-84-460-4850-3 2020: Desafío, el virus no es el único peligro, Ediciones Akal ISBN 978-84-460-4975-3 2020: El pueblo gitano contra el sistema mundo.
For over-25 year old employees, the wage began at £7.20 per hour in April 2016 and was projected to rise to at least £9 per hour by April 2020.
However, there are specific exemptions for people working in non-hazardous occupations such as the entertainment industry.
The Office of Labor-Management Standards, part of the United States Department of Labor, is required to collect all collective bargaining agreements covering 1,000 or more workers, excluding those involving railroads and airlines.
The NES have applied to employees since 1 January 2010, having replaced the previous five entitlement standard (called the Australian Fair Pay and Conditions Standard) under the WorkChoices legislation.
Pangilinan welcomed proposals from the Department of Agriculture to increase rice import tariffs and urged that tariff collections must reach and directly benefit farmers, warning that the law had not delivered intended support.
After one year of uninterrupted membership to an unemployment fund, and six months of half-time work, a worker is entitled to receive an earnings-related daily allowance of up to 80% of his or her regular income (with a maximum of 680 SEK per day) for the first 200 days.
Judgement themselves are to be done by consensus, or a majority vote where consensus cannot be found and all judgements are to be communicated in writing to complainant and the Institution involved, with the reasons for the judgement clearly outlined.
These dress codes may also contain specifications related to the wearing of cosmetics and heels and the styling of hair.
An undue hardship is an American and Canadian legal term referring to special or specified circumstances that partially or fully exempt a person or organization from performance of a legal obligation so as to avoid an unreasonable or disproportionate burden or obstacle.
Resignation of Integrity Commissioner In October 2010 the head of OPSIC, Public Sector Integrity Commissioner Christiane Ouimet, unexpectedly resigned less than halfway through her seven-year term, following media reports that she was under investigation by Canada's Auditor General.
Section 17 made requirements for the safeguarding of machinery but was repealed and superseded by the Provision and Use of Work Equipment Regulations 1992 between 1 January 1993 and 1 January 1997.
Venezuelan labour law is covered by the Ley Orgánica del Trabajo, los Trabajadores y las Trabajadoras (2012), and underpinned by parts of the Constitution of Venezuela which cover labour rights.
This decision ultimately became an important precedent that it is illegal to discharge an employee due to expressing milk or lactation.
Essential minimum services and abusive minimum services There may be disagreements about what is considered an essential service and what is not.
The term is also applied to special arrangements between private corporations and government entities, whereby the corporation and sometimes a government official reap the benefits, rather than the public.
Today, the primary mission of OSC is to safeguard the merit system by protecting federal employees and applicants from prohibited personnel practices, especially reprisal for whistleblowing.
History The then Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announced, at the end of his budget speech on 8 July 2015, a new national minimum wage rate for people over the age of 25, which he termed the "National Living Wage".
Although many anti-sweatshop campaigners would like for globalization to be reversed and factories to close, citizens of these developed countries do not have many options for alternative work.
It has failed to ratify the two basic onventions of the International Labour Organization on freedom of association and collective bargaining, and on the abolition of child labour.
The framework also matches empirical findings on the shares of average earnings losses following displacement that are due to reduced employment and lower wages." Weinstein, Bruce, "Downsizing 101", BusinessWeek magazine, September 12, 2008.
Contemporary examples In a report released on November 26, 2011, a Palm Beach County organization, People Engaged in Active Community Efforts (PEACE), sent postcards to Macy's and Bealls executives as a form of protest.
Pompeyo Benito Guloy and Jimmy Bulosan Ramil, both members of Local 37 and of the Tulisan gang, were found guilty of first degree murder and sentenced to life in prison.
A French law passed in the National Assembly on 17 February 2015 and effective from the end of 2015 imposed statutory minimum wage regulations on foreign truck drivers plying international routes to and from France and undertaking cabotage in the country.
In this model, seven harassing behaviors were classified into three levels of severity: less severe, moderately severe, and most severe.
Whistle-blowing Policy in Nigeria is an anti-corruption programme that encourages people to voluntarily disclose information about fraud, bribery, looted government funds, financial misconduct, government assets, and any other form of corruption or theft to the Nigeria's Federal Ministry of Finance.
Since 1948, he headed the Permanent Commission for Open Trials on the Most Important Cases of former servicemen of the German army and German punitive bodies, exposed of atrocities against Soviet citizens in the temporarily occupied territory of the Soviet Union.
The foreign country where someone seeks to obtain a work permit for is also known as the "country of work", as opposed to the "country of origin" where someone holds citizenship or nationality.
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 159 of, and the fourth schedule to, the Factories Act 1937 (1 Edw.
Career and further education Summers' brother had enlisted in the United States Army at the beginning of World War II.
In the United States, commercial law is the province of both the United States Congress, under its power to regulate interstate commerce, and the states, under their police power.
There is a prohibition on any employer treating an employee as if the person is not an employee under the Act.
8) amended the 1998 act to allow employees to claim back payments from a previous employer of an employee in cases where the previous employer failed to pay them the minimum wage.
Many labor leaders, including the leadership of the AFL–CIO, supported the legislation, including testifying in support at congressional hearings.
The Labour Court (Dutch: Arbeidsrechtbank, French: Tribunal du travail, German: Arbeitsgericht) in Belgium is a court which deals in first instance with disputes between employers and employees and disputes regarding social security.
Even though domestic work is the fastest-growing sector of women and girls' employment in urban India, the country lacks a separate law for domestic workers' safety and social security.
The terms of a 2008 plea bargain to settle criminal charges against financier Jeffrey Epstein have been called a sweetheart deal by many commentators.
Collective contracts (established by article 4) were negotiated following the issuing of the Charter of Labour, but with the effect of a decrease in wages.
The Highlands and Islands Medical Service was established in the crofting counties on a non-contributory basis in 1913.
In summer 2015, Blair's law firm accepted a large fee to advise the Maldives government as it faced a challenge from former Maldivian president Mohamed Nasheed over his imprisonment for "terrorism".
On November 5, the House agreed to the Senate's amendment by a vote of 403–12, sending the bill to President Barack Obama's desk.
In 2018, legislative battles over it and the largely public union organizations it has jurisdiction over were taking place.
The difference between the two classifications depends on the permanency of the employment, opportunity for profit and loss, the worker's level of self-employment along with their degree of control.
For example, countries with more permissive labor laws may see higher rates of unionization and collective bargaining coverage.
The Government of Canada introduced multiple temporary social security and financial aid programs in response to the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in Canada.
The Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth) is an act of the Parliament of Australia, passed by the Rudd government to reform the industrial relations system of Australia.
Subsequently, Constitutional Amendment number 19 relaxed this requirement by establishing the possibility of adopting the statutory regime or Hired Under Employment Laws, but was reinstated after the foregoing assessment of ADIn 2135.
This presumption may be rebutted when the agreement is in writing and contains an explicit provision asserting that it should be legally enforceable.
The issue was first raised by Robert Michels in his Political Parties and termed the Iron law of oligarchy: all forms of organization, regardless of how democratic or autocratic they may be at the start, will eventually and inevitably develop into oligarchies.
The 8th Circuit Court of Appeals stayed the District Court's ruling, and the lockout continued pending a final determination in the appellate court.
He received a Bachelor of Civil Law degree in 1978 and a Bachelor of Law degree in 1979 from McGill University.
Former non-sovereign state members The ILO constitution indicates that members must be states (initially, although not exclusively, members of the League of Nations or, after 1945, members of the United Nations), which has been interpreted to imply those entities with state sovereignty.
15) again set a twelve-hour day, its main provisions being: Children 9–13 years could work for 9 hours a day with a lunch break.
If no cause exists yet the employer dismisses without providing lawful notice, then the dismissal is a wrongful dismissal.
He was replaced in 2006 and later was appointed head of McGill University's government relations and inter-institutional affairs office, effective January 3, 2007.
See also German labour law Notes References Hans Jürgen Teuteberg, Geschichte der Industriellen Mitbestimmung (1961)
Health (general provisions) Sections 1 to 7 define general broad requirements for healthy factory working conditions: Cleanliness; Overcrowding; Temperature; Ventilation; Lighting; Drainage of floors; and Sanitary conveniences.
Contents The Act provides for fixing wage rate (time, piece, guaranteed time, overtime) for any industry .
This crucial role in collective bargaining is why the right to strike is constitutionally protected by s.
During this assessment, states enjoy a margin of appreciation of varied scope, depending on the specific circumstances.
His political opponents mocked the thought of Lord John Russell turning his undoubted talents to the production of a reading primer, and it was soon announced that once the bill went into committee it would be amended to restore the 1833 education clauses.
Sadler, as chairman of the committee, reported the minutes of evidence on 8 August 1832, when they were ordered to be printed.
In the general election, Green finished well ahead of his three opponents, including Communist Party leader William Ross.
More recent review and analysis of the Act In 2017 the Standing Committee on Government Operations and Estimates (known as OGGO) was asked by the government to conduct a review of the Act.
The formula ensures that any individual working 40 hours per week (be it from one or more jobs) will be able to afford basic food, clothing, shelter (an efficiency apartment), and public transportation, wherever that work is done throughout the United States.
In order to become eligible for unemployment benefits, one must become part of one of the twenty four private and state approved Insurance funds; these funds are commonly known in Denmark as A-kasser's or A-kasse.
The draft Bill was reviewed and critiqued with amendments, and the amended bill resubmitted to the government.
There was no requirement on local authorities for enforcement (or penalties for non-enforcement) of legislation for workshops.
Judgments of the Labour Court can be appealed to the Labour Appeal Court or the Supreme Court of Appeals which in turn can be appealed to the Constitutional Court of South Africa.
The second reading of Poulett Thomson's Bill was opposed by Ashley, who denounced the bill as a feeler towards total repeal of protection for factory children.
According to the Federal Statistical Office of Germany, in 2021, the average number of leave days taken was 32.2 days.
Whether respondents did not want to label their experiences as rape or if they feared that their perpetrator was going to be punished the use of language was leading to inaccurate results.
The determination of minimum services in crucial services is sometimes a limitation of the right to strike, which matches the corresponding governmental authority in each State.
She remained minister in charge of HRDC until Paul Martin became Prime Minister on December 12, 2003.
– after allowing 90 minutes for meal breaks only ten-and-a-half hours could be worked; this passed by nine votes.
The following sections were repealed in part and superseded by the Pressure Systems and Transportable Gas Containers Regulations 1989 on 1 July 1994: 32 Steam boilers – attachments and construction; and steam boilers – maintenance, examination and use.
See also European labour law Trade unions in Turkey Demir and Baykara v Turkey (2008) Yazar, Karatas, Aksoy and Hep v Turkey (2003) 36 EHRR 59 == References ==
Its South Texas Project, led by Harrington, became the Texas Civil Rights Project in September 1990.
Francis Pancratius "Kiko" Nepomuceno Pangilinan ([paŋɪˈlinan]; born August 24, 1963) is a Filipino lawyer, and politician who has served as a senator of the Philippines since 2025.
Background The act was the final consolidation of a line of legislation under Factory Acts that began in 1802.
That came to nothing, and on September 3, 1968, Green announced he would seek the party's leadership himself.
However, these workers were required to prove that they also lost at least 50% of their revenue because of these measures.
Background No national minimum wage existed prior to 1998, although there were a variety of systems of wage controls focused on specific industries under the Trade Boards Act 1909.
The policy was launched on December 21, 2016 by Nigeria's Federal Government and facilitated through the Federal Ministry of Finance.
The report explained that exchange rates between countries reflect economic productivity and, thereby, offset the advantages of lower wages in other States.
The doctrine of International Shoe is broad, but the Court has recognized that it has limits, nevertheless.
Articles 13 to 15 require member states to implement the law, inform people, and evaluate and review it.
Four years later she was appointed Magistrada de Trabajo, employment judge number 1 in Madrid and in 1988 she was appointed to the Employment section of the High Court of Madrid.
743, "the federal whistleblowers have seen their protections diminish in recent years, largely as a result of a series of decisions by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which has exclusive jurisdiction over many cases brought under the Whistleblower Protection Act (WPA).
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 116(2) of, and part I of the seventh schedule to the Unemployment Insurance Act 1935 (25 & 26 Geo.
The Trade Dispute Decree No.7 of 1976 set up the National Industrial Court; initially consisting of a president and four other members and a quorum of the president and two members.
The board usually meets twice a year to determine minimum wages for agricultural workers, and to set conditions for holiday and sick pay entitlement.
The term industrial democracy was also used by British socialist reformers Sidney and Beatrice Webb in their 1897 book Industrial Democracy.
In 1912, the Industrial Arbitration Act of South Australia provided at section 22 that: The Court shall not have power to order or prescribe wages which do not secure to the employee affected a living wage.
The original union put it under trusteeship to block the transfer, and the court upheld the move as legal under the Act.
The Adequate Minimum Wage Directive 2022 (2022/2041) is a European Union Directive on the setting of minimum wages and collective bargaining in EU law.
Starting in 1909, Liberals, led especially by David Lloyd George, promoted the idea of a minimum wage for farm workers.
This process often benefits the employer because it reduces the chances of a strike or legal action, and benefits the employee because it allows them more bargaining power and prevents mass layoffs in a dispute.
But if the employee's Agency has clear and convincing evidence that a personnel action would have been taken against a civilian employee absent their disclosure of alleged wrongdoing, the Inspector General “non-substantiates” the case.
However earlier that week a similar bill had been introduced into the House of Commons by MP John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury that would apply to England and Wales.
In the case that the ECHR ruled on, the company that engaged in forced labor and human trafficking appeared to be owned by the wife of Azerbaijan minister Azad Rahimov.
Law of May 19, 1874 limiting the working time of children under twelve years of age to 6 hours per day in sectors authorized to employ them.
Moreover, the peace obligation does not apply to the secondary action, the general prohibition of industrial action against a neutral third party is lifted, and permissible actions are not limited to walk-outs (can include boycotts, blockades, etc.).
The term was defined by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) in 1990, in the case of Foster, A and others v.
Initially the courts followed a strict interpretation of territorial jurisdiction, where states only had power over property or defendants who were actually present in the state (excepting corporations or residents).
The second is that either party may terminate the employment contract as long as the other party is given notice.
Today industries like screenwriting, hotels, and railroads still see sectoral bargaining predominate.
In his view the CDA too much emphasised policies that resulted in the dismantling of social security.
Since 1988, eight countries have been suspended or terminated from the GSP program: Burma, Liberia, Maldives, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan (several products), Sudan and Syria.
Social Catholicism, particularly the work of René de La Tour du Pin, which emphasized corporate harmony.
2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Section 4207 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R.
European Works Councils (EWC) are information and consultation bodies representing employees in European multinational companies.
Ikoyi Whistle-blower In 2017, a whistler-blower helped the Nigerian government recover 43.5million, GBP27,800, and N23.2 million at No.
This unpaid work contributes a real monetary value to the digital platforms' owners that is included in the GDP, while all the unpaid work is on the wrong side of the production boundary and is therefore not counted.
The act had established wage committees to fix minimum agricultural pay; these, too, were soon abandoned.
According to the Ontario Human Rights Commission, "sexualized" or "gender-specific" dress codes may harm women, reinforce gender stereotypes, and exclude transgender people and other marginalized groups.
The decisions of the Labour Court can be appealed to the Court of Labour (Dutch: Arbeidshof, French: Cour du travail, German: Arbeitsgerichtshof).
He helped enforce the first Russian labour code (1 June 1882) which provided a measure of protection for Russian factory workers.
She retired from politics on February 13, 2004, to become an executive director of the International Labour Organization.
An employee is hired for a trial period that gives the company an opportunity to evaluate an employee's job performance and conduct.
The journal has carried articles on transnational labour law, legal issues concerning immigrant domestic workers, freedom of speech in the workplace, globalization, work–life balance, and more.
The other three are the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, the Industrial Relations Code, and the Code on Social Security, which have been passed in 2020 but not yet come into force because the date of coming into force is yet to be notified in the official gazette.
It replaced the previous Labor Government's Industrial Relations Act 1988 and Industrial Relations Reform Act 1993, and commenced operation on 1 January 1997.
Universal Allocation Per Child (Spanish: Asignación universal por hijo) is a social security program in Argentina.
In an "equivalent" system, a European fund would pay out funds to either the national budget or national unemployment insurance in case unemployment increases steeply in a member state.
A federal agency violates the Whistleblower Protection Act if agency authorities take (or threaten to take) retaliatory personnel action against any employee or applicant because of disclosure of information by that employee or applicant.
The government picked up responsibility for the basic benefits that the unions and societies had promised, thus greatly helping their financial reserves.
carpenters, doctors, lawyers, and plumbers) who control their own work are accountable for their profits and losses.
In the 1990s, MTUC and AWAM joined forces in an awareness campaign that targeted all sections of society.
First it requires the abstraction of a man's labour from both his person and the product of his work.
Uk passed the 1833 Factory Act ] In 1839 Prussia was the first country to pass laws restricting child labor in factories and setting the number of hours a child could work.
Protecting Sources The mechanics of protecting Defense Intelligence Community whistleblowers occurs, in part, through the Inspector General Act passed in 1978.
He was also a prominent Irish nationalist, and in 1919 was arrested and fined for leading a prohibited Saint Patrick's Day march.
The organization was established with 42 states, of which 29 states are considered founder members as signatories to the Versailles Treaty; another 13 states, not signatories, were invited to be members and granted status as founder members.
British Columbia (Council of Human Rights) Work-product doctrine Constructive trust Employment discrimination law in the United States Section 508 Amendment to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Forum non conveniens Chapter 7, Title 11, United States Code Hardship clause == References ==
The report, based on an international survey, details how the laws of each country affect women's abilities to secure employment and start a business.
63 of 1948), as amended by the Factories (Amendment) Act, 1987 (Act 20 of 1987), served to assist in formulating national policies in India with respect to occupational safety and health in factories and docks in India.
This had led to predictions that there could be a "showdown" between the Strasbourg and Luxembourg courts.
Boyle v Equal Opportunities Commission (1998) C-411/96, [1998] ECR I-6401 Mrs Boyle worked for the EOC, which as an emanation of the state, was subject to the Directive with direct effect.
They consider that abusive minimum services cause the strike to cease to be noticed, thus distorting the right to strike.
Case law Manu v Steelink Contracting Services Ltd (1998) WEC2/98 Grey Advertising (New Zealand) Ltd v Marinkovich (1999) AEC 70A/99 == References ==
In 1966, Green won election to the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba for the north-end Winnipeg riding of Inkster.
The law then requires the DNI (or the relevant agency head) to forward the complaint to the congressional intelligence committees, along with any comments he wishes to make about the complaint, within seven days.
Where an employee has had at least one year's service, the employer also faces a separate claim for severance pay (French: indemnité de licenciement).
She is a member of the editorial board of the Industrial Law Journal, the European Labour Law Journal and Current Legal Problems.
The Employment and Social Insurance Act (French: Loi sur le placement et les assurances sociales) was a statute enacted by the Parliament of Canada in 1935 during the final months of the government of R.B.
The Hofstra Labor and Employment Law Journal is an American law journal which publishes articles in the field of labor and employment law.
2007: The Tamil Nadu state government announced that it has fixed minimum wages for 90% of all occupations.
Pre-independence The history of labor disputes in America substantially precedes the Revolutionary period.
Conferences Every two years, Labor Notes holds a national conference that brings together more than a thousand union members and leaders from the United States, Canada, Mexico, and other countries.
Marco Biagi Award The late Italian jurist Marco Biagi was instrumental in forming the Association, originally called the Club of Labour Law Journals, and served as its first president.
These explore topics such as new employment and labor relations laws, regulations, court cases, developments in employee benefits administration, on-the-job safety and health issues, and labor-management relations.
Activity Holding the posts of the Prosecutor General of the Soviet Union and the Minister of Justice of the Soviet Union, he participated in the repressions.
The number of workers affected was expected to be about 4.5 million, forming between 3% and 30% of the workforce in a given area depending on the location.
People operations is a holistic reinvention of traditional human resources, and is tailored to a more modern workplace and work practices, such as remote roles and global teams.
Although the lawsuit was eventually dismissed because the events had taken place before the LMRDA, also known as the Landrum–Griffin Act, had been passed, the case marked the start of a decades-long collaboration between Benson and Summers.
They estimate that it raised wages for farm labourers by 15 per cent by 1929, and by more than 20 per cent in the 1930s.
Announced during the summer of 2007, former Nickelodeon star Amanda Bynes also debuted a clothing line, Dear, on August 16, 2007.
In February 2007, Air Canada Technical Services reached an agreement to acquire 80% of Aeroman, the MRO affiliate of TACA Airlines, a Central American airline.
Originally, it functioned as a price-point retailer at prime locations in town centres, goods were sold using standard prices (hence its name), with everything having a standard price of 10, 25 or 50 cents, and later also 75 and 100 cents.
History Herbal Magic was founded in 1995 by Dieter Decker, who opened his first weight loss and nutrition center in London, Ontario.
The former Sigfox entity had raised more than $300 million from investors that included Salesforce, Intel, Samsung, NTT, SK Telecom, energy groups Total and Air Liquide.
Juventus striker Roberto Baggio became the face of the company in the 1990s, and launched his own personalized football boots, the Matchwinner.
That credit belongs to Blockbuster itself." Commentators view Blockbuster as a main example of failing to change with the times.
The company was criticised in late February 2025 for refusing to accept its own gift vouchers during its closing-down sale.
Fraudulent trading is entirely separate and distinct from "insider trading", which focuses purely upon the abuse of inside information in relation to financial markets for personal financial gain, and is wholly unrelated to creditor's rights or insolvency law.
Four days later, the chain's bankruptcy case was formally converted to Chapter 7, as proceeds from liquidation sales fell short of targets.
However, the phenomenon first emerged in the UK in 2009 when it was reported that German and Austrian nationals were moving to Kent in order to take advantage of bankruptcy laws in England and Wales, whilst residing close to Eurostar.
That takeover required changes in legislation, which at the time prohibited a fixed telephone company from purchasing another fixed telephone company in a different license area.
At the end of this wire the hand–grip would slam into a blocking mechanism and come to a stop about 20 feet (6.1 m) above the water, with the momentum thrusting the hanging rider 20 feet (6.1 m) forward into the lagoon.
Railroad Acquisition Holdings, LLC has established a new railroad named Central Maine and Quebec Railway (reporting mark CMQ) to operate the former MMA rail lines.
According to MMA, losses from operating the lines had reached the point where they were threatening the financial health of the entire railroad.
the equipment and power delivered for the price are outstanding", noting that the $2,795 computer "costs less than many stand-alone hard-disk drives".
Andrew Lutfy, a Quebec businessman who began working as a stock clerk at the first GDI store in 1982, is the owner of Groupe Dynamite.
By the end of 1971, Recrion was planning a $5 million sale of the Aladdin, which would help pay off the resort's debts.
As of late October 2024, the orchestra announced that the bankruptcy had been annulled and that they are rebuilding with a new Board of Directors.
Throughout the mid-1970s, Cuisinart sales rose due to the brand's association with celebrity chefs such as James Beard, a close friend of Sontheimer.
On March 20, 2016, SeaPort Airlines ceased service to North Bend/Coos Bay, and PenAir began service on March 21.
The downtown heliport on East River Pier 6 opened in 1960 and New York Airways moved all its Manhattan passenger flights down there around December 1960.
In February 1981, Metrospan Community Newspapers (a unit of Torstar) and Inland Publishing Company (formerly owned by The Telegram Corporation, owned by the Eaton and Bassett families) merged to become Metroland.
Knights Inn used to be built with all-exterior corridors and medieval-inspired architecture, but the chain now has updated options for all Knights Inn properties.
As the company grew, Mason increased the products’ performance and strength, and he was awarded numerous patents connected with Masonite.
IBBI has regulatory oversight on Insolvency Professionals, Insolvency Professional Agencies, Insolvency Professional Entities and Information Utilities.
Pier 1 filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on February 17, 2020, and on May 19, 2020, announced it was asking the bankruptcy court to close all stores, due in large part to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Canwest also bought broadcasting assets internationally, including outlets in New Zealand, the Republic of Ireland, and Australia, although all were eventually sold off.
Leon Restaurants Limited (branded as LEON) is a fast food chain based in the United Kingdom, established in 2004.
Under the scrapped plan, the $304 million in cash portion of the Greenberg-Ryan group’s May 24 deal with owner Tom Hicks would serve as a minimum bid, with the next bid at least $20 million higher.
2021: Reduction of fleet and closure of long-haul operations In 2021, restructuring continued in order to formulate a sustainable business plan that would allow the airline to both receive further governmental aid and investment from private enterprise.
Today Robertson Properties currently acquires and develops retail, office, and residential properties.
Tandy and Luther Henderson of the Tandy Corporation provided a loan to the California-based Cost Plus Imports chain in exchange for franchise rights.
In 2000, the company changed its name to 360networks Inc., and its United States entity to 360networks (USA)inc., to better describe its 360-degree focus on a global network.
This can be a way for people to deal with debt problems by protecting the debtor from the legal enforcement of debts which are included in the trust deed, but only once it has become protected.
While the Inuit of Fast Runner are depicted in a church, the Inuit of The Journals are represented in contemporary news stories as living in impoverished areas within wealthy nations.
The same private equity firm Wexford Capital eventually became involved with Republic Airways Holdings after disposing of its interests in Midway Airlines along with National Airlines after the 9/11 terrorist attack, which affected the airline industry so drastically.
Accordingly, the documentary claimed it observed Herbal Magic salespeople using tactics that lead customers to overestimate the supplements' effectiveness.
In 1971, Brown bought Ollie Gleichenhaus's "Ollie Burger" recipe for $1 million (equivalent to $7,949,877 in 2025), along with stock in the new company and a ten-year contract for $50,000 a year to appear as the official spokesperson of the Ollieburger on behalf of Lum's.
In the late 1960s, Dorothy Perkins co-funded Biba's expansion into a large boutique on Kensington High Street.
was created by Tandy Corporation in 1986 to operate Radio Shack stores in Canada, Europe and Australia.
Since the airport was self-funded it would charge higher-than-normal landing fees to pay back the bonds.
On September 24, the company announced that it would sell its 50.1% stake in Ten Network Holdings for A$680 million, in order to pay down its significant debt.
The Bon-Ton Stores began the decade by opening more stores, establishing a new division, Maxwell's, and acquiring L S Good, including its Fowler's department stores.
Construction was haphazard; all stores opened unfinished and renovations would continue well into 2001.
C E L ( 40 , 80 ; 100 ) = ( 30 , 70 ) {\displaystyle CEL(40,80;100)=(30,70)} ; here r = 10 {\displaystyle r=10} .
On March 11, 2025, the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil suspended all operations of MAP and parent company Voepass due to management issues.
Suspended registration On November 26, 2012, the FDA suspended Sunland's registration to produce and distribute food product.
Brinquedos declare bankruptcy and cease operations began in 1994, when imported toys sold by street vendors began to strongly compete with the retail toy industry.
If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B owes Party A 105, the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A).
It was announced in November 1987 that the final three stores were to liquidate, closing before the end of the year.
Due to this, the French Directory and the Minister of Finance, Dominique-Vincent Ramel-Nogaret, on 30 September 1797, issued one-time only paper bonds that would be redeemable for national lands; similar to what the Assignat was originally before it became a paper currency.
The Army and Navy depended on the product to develop Quonset huts for soldier housing throughout the European and Pacific war theatres.
As imports did not have continuity, Mesbla found itself in difficulties to provide technical assistance for the goods sold.
In March 2020, the Company reported profits of $3.7 billion in 2019, an increase of 57% from the previous year.
History The company was established in 1980 as a single, family-owned store in Mississauga in the Greater Toronto Area, with 12 employees.
A month before the bankruptcy proceedings, Billboard published that Ruffles and his wife were giving up the night club business to live in Los Angeles.
This practically assured him of being only the sixth person to represent this heavily Democratic, Latino-majority district.
The corporate headquarters remained in York, Pennsylvania, but the merchandising headquarters was relocated to Milwaukee.
Generally speaking, a floating charge is only potentially vulnerable if it is entered into within the vulnerability period under applicable law.
Ling later split Wilson into three parts (meat packing, sporting goods (Wilson Sporting Goods), and pharmaceuticals (Wilson Pharmaceutical and Chemical), and spun them off into separate companies traded on the American Stock Exchange.
Building the chain The flagship Sam the Record Man store was famous for its Boxing Day sales and often served as the location for newspaper and television reports on Boxing Day shopping.
12 further stores were closed during bankruptcy, reducing the chain to 32 stores before exiting bankruptcy in late 1986.
History Public records show that shortly before the closure of Republic Windows the owners purchased Echo Windows and Doors, a non-unionized window factory in Red Oak, Iowa.
"The maintenance component that supplies work to the Air Canada fleet has effectively ceased operations," according to Lorne Hammerberg, the IAMAW's local president in Winnipeg.
In practice the most important grounds tend to be insolvency (the fourth ground) and just and equitable winding up (the sixth ground).
To make calls, users dialed the BroadPoint toll-free number, then entered their PIN, followed by the desired number.
It became a Dominion store until 2002, when it moved to a larger store at the "big box" development at Murphy Square.
In 2009, Beth Ditto of the indie rock band the Gossip launched the Beth Ditto at Evans collection, also exclusive to the retailer.
In 2007, Adam, Ashley, and Austin reunited as The Clark Brothers and won the Fox Networks talent show The Next Great American Band that year.
Some stores were not full franchises but used Roblan Distributors as their principal rack jobber and were known as RD 2000 stores.
Due to financial problems during 1990 and 1991, Airlift International ceased operations in June 1991.
The reason why he chose the name to begin with was because, as Weinstein said, "it reminded me of the countryside and the flowers and the springtime".
Following a slump in business caused by nearby construction, the company that managed the plaza where Prego Della Piazza was located chose not to extend the restaurant's lease in early 2010.
The range proved popular: Adele wore a dress at a gig in Canada and was reported to have bought the whole range.
The airline was founded in 1981 in Panama City, Florida and operated scheduled passenger service between 1981 and 1988.
Financial problems and closure Since 2002, Todeschini Alimentos was suffering from financial problems due competition and administrative problems.
A survey of US debt settlement companies found that 34.4% of enrollees had 75 percent or more of their debt settled within three years.
In a creditor's voluntary winding-up, he must report to the creditor's meeting on the exercise of his powers.
The eighth of eleven children, Hinojosa was reared in Hidalgo County, which borders on Mexico, and earned two business degrees, a Bachelor of Business Administration from the University of Texas at Austin and his MBA from the University of Texas–Pan American.
The company emerged from bankruptcy in less than 24 hours due to the agreement of all stakeholders, a strong strategic plan, and a stable team.
One of the major characteristics of the company was counting on huge stores often similar to a real market or specialized shopping mall only with toys.
A low-cost carrier, it was formed in 1994 under the name Commercial Air, later changed to Western Pacific, and began operating scheduled passenger flights on April 28, 1995, with eight Boeing 737-300s.
The Court also held that the legislative history of the termination and severance pay provisions and the other provisions in the ESA supported an interpretation that such benefits were payable to employees whose employment is terminated upon bankruptcy.
Sigfox 0G technology is a global Low-Power Wide-Area (LPWA) networking protocol founded in 2010 and adopted by 70+ Sigfox 0G Network Operators globally.
In 1999, PizzaExpress introduced its Schools Programme, a programme where the company turns its restaurants into classrooms, educating children about fresh ingredients, how to run a local business and how to cook for themselves.
The flagship, downtown Toronto location, at Brookfield Place (formerly BCE Place), went out of business in January 2010.
As of that time, it was operating nearly 80 stores, mostly in the Northeastern United States and on the West Coast, under the corporation PLVTZ LLC.
Aviation Safety Network and NTSB incorrectly identify this as an aircraft operated by Interior, but contemporaneous reporting is very clear.
New Look was owned by private equity groups Apax Partners and Permira, and founder Tom Singh, until May 2015 when it was acquired by Brait SE (SA) for £780 million.
On August 4, 2008, Steve and Barry's LLC, a retailer of casual apparel, filed a stalking horse agreement with the U.S.
Litigation arising from the conflict eventually reached the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
Best known for its lingerie, tights, and sleepwear collections, its other clothes had difficulty competing with the more trendy Lewis Separates, now owned by River Island Clothing Company Ltd, and Peter Robinson.
Senator Daniel Inouye, and a deal between Aloha and Saltchuk was struck and approved by the federal bankruptcy court, where Saltchuk would purchase the cargo division for $10.5 million.
In order for 722 redemption to apply the item in question must be personal property intended primarily for personal, family or household use.
In November 2000, the company had a market capitalization of $13 billion, despite only $234 million in revenue for the first six months of 2000.
By the fall of 1975, the factory that had made only 30 pairs of shoes a day was making more than 2,000.
The whole organization soon was mired in bankruptcy and spurred the decline of the regional department store.
On March 21, 2019, it was announced that the Sabres would play the Tampa Bay Lightning in the 2019 NHL Global Series at Ericsson Globe in Stockholm, Sweden.
In Idaho, its main competitors were Gem State Airlines, Cascade Airways, and to a lesser extent Hughes Airwest (later Republic Airlines).
In 2013, Christmas Tree Shops introduced a new brand and store format called Christmas Tree Shops andThat!, with the name change intended to avoid confusion in new markets unfamiliar with the store.
It has attracted the attention of the Australian Securities & Investments Commission, the Australian Taxation Office and the Fair Work Ombudsman, who have been pursuing those undertaking such practices to evade liability under their respective statutes.
The company certified and produced the inline piston twin-engined Adam A500, while the turbofan-powered Adam A700 AdamJet was under development.
They also act on directions, instructions and guidance from the service's Inspector General or, less often, from the Secretary of State for Business and Trade.
A fire in March 1933 destroyed many of the racing pictures, though some still remain in the family of the subsequent owner, William Soshnick.
Merger with World Color Press In 1999, Quebecor Printing merged with World Color Press in a US$2.7 billion deal to create Quebecor World.
On May 4, 2011, it was reported that nearly three months after abruptly closing down local drugstore chain and filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, El Amal was liquidating the inventory it had left, the company in charge of the transaction announced in an ad published Tuesday.
The company began charter operations on 15 June 1946 using Fairchild F-24 Argus and Douglas DC-3 aircraft.
in 2017, the Ontario Securities Commission permanently banned Drabinsky from becoming a director or officer of any public company in Ontario.
Thomas Hurkmans, president of DQE Enterprises, at the time, was the initial financier of this business.
This process, too, has a unique Nash equilibrium, in which the payoffs are equal to the ones prescribed by the constrained equal losses rule.
Today, Tinsley IV and Booth operate the company out of its current corporate headquarters in Houston.
Signed to Curb Records in 2000, The Clark Family Experience debuted on the American country music scene that year with the release of their single "Meanwhile Back at the Ranch".
Ayre's Supermarkets Ayre's also began to open supermarkets in the 1960s, under the name Ayre's Supermarkets.
Throughout 2007 the company started selling off aircraft from its training fleet to raise capital to increase recruiting, which further slowed down training.
In November 2009, Subway signed a deal to serve exclusively Seattle's Best Coffee coffee as part of its breakfast menu in the US.
On 9 July 1953 it may have been the first scheduled helicopter airline to carry passengers in the United States, with headquarters at LaGuardia Airport.
For example, a payment is due in three months' time but the borrower has been put into liquidation: and covenant default, when the borrower fails to keep a promise (a covenant) that it has made in the contract.
On May 30, it was announced that Pier 1 Imports had received court approval to liquidate all locations.
Uncooperative creditors of HFI during this period are prevented from disrupting our regular business.
By late 2000, the F100s became expensive to maintain and operate, so Midway began to replace them with Boeing 737-700s.
At this point, many properties had begun re-branding to other companies, most notably Motel 6, Travelodge, and Days Inn; conversely, HMS began acquiring buildings from other chains and re-branding them to Knights Inn, thus abandoning the chain's architecture standards.
After LTV departed its headquarters for Cleveland, the building was renamed the Trammell Crow Tower; it is now Trammell Crow Center.
2011–2013: Leaseholds acquisition and partnership On January 13, 2011, Target announced that it would purchase the lease agreements of up to 220 Zellers stores for C$1.825 billion (approximately $2.427 billion in 2025 adjusted for inflation).
The Humane Society pledge While there was talk of New York banning the sale of pets, Petland Discounts had gone towards becoming a puppy-friendlier pet store.
On June 14, it was reported that Fortress Investment Group, a Wall Street investment firm co-founded by the Milwaukee Bucks co-owner Wesley Edens, was interested in saving Red Lobster out of bankruptcy.
The company was founded in 2010 through the merges of two retail companies, being the Belo Horizonte-based Ricardo Eletro and Salvador-based Insinuante.
SMCD 5126 Canadian Trumpet Concerti, works by Hetu, Forsyth, Nimmons, Guy Few, James Thompson, Dan Warren trumpet, Armenian conductor.
The opening of Za was part of a five-year plan to refresh and improve the brand, called Future Express.
To fulfill the wishes of a daughter, he commissioned from a renowned architect from São Paulo a dollhouse, worth 300 000 dollars, which was installed on his farm in Indaiatuba.
In 2009, it was advertised the comeback of Mesbla: an e-commerce company negotiated the purchase of name usage rights with Mansur and intended to open a site aimed at women in March 2010, with official launch in May of the same year.
Western governments were convinced that they should openly support the anti-Bolshevik forces to restore a capitalist order.
Business areas Metroland's regional and specialized business units can be grouped into five categories: Newspapers, Printing, Distribution, Digital Media, and Consumer Marketing.
However, Texas officials—particularly those from Fort Worth—thought that increased traffic at Love Field could draw flights away from DFW Airport and threaten its financial stability.
In 2025, SSENSE filed for bankruptcy protection with $371 million CAD of debt, including over $93 million CAD owed to vendors.
Two months later, the almost-brand-new aircraft was still stranded in Shiraz and subject to seizure by the Iranian government.
In the ensuing off-season, Jason Heyward was released and Willson Contreras left in free agency, leaving Kyle Hendricks as the only remaining player from their 2016 championship team.
Right now, Diadora is the kit maker of Norwegian Eliteserien club Viking FK At the 2025 season, Diadora made a return to the Brazilian football, providing kits for Coritiba and Náutico.
It aired on YouTube on the 9th anniversary of BTS’s debut, June 13, in celebration of the release of their new anthology album Proof.
HEMA (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈɦeːmaː]; originally an acronym for Hollandsche Eenheidsprijzen Maatschappij Amsterdam, "Holland Unitary Pricing Company Amsterdam") is a Dutch variety chain store known by relatively low pricing of generic household goods.
Promotions In 2003, Red Lobster offered an endless snow crab leg promotion, the second in its history.
The interest in the property must be exempted under the bankruptcy code or has to be abandoned by the bankruptcy estate in order for 722 redemption to be used.
In English law the concept of universalism is usually used in contrast to the alternative theory of judicial cooperation in cross-border insolvencies referred to as the doctrine of unity.
An expanse of arid land on the eastern edge of the Mojave Desert 100 yards (91 m) from Interstate 15 was chosen for the project.
Café des Artistes was designed for the residents of the Hotel des Artistes, since the apartments lacked kitchens.
Dorothy Perkins is a British online women's fashion retailer operated by Debenhams Group in the United Kingdom.
In March 2007, The Wall Street Journal reported many lenders, including HSBC Mortgage Services and Countrywide, were demanding AFM repurchase loans pursuant to repurchase provisions contained in loan purchase agreements.
Shortly before the opening of the airport Continental Airlines shut down their Denver hub, leaving Denver as a hub for only one carrier, United Airlines, whereas Stapleton had once been a hub for airlines like the original Frontier Airlines (1950-1986) and Western Airlines.
The company announced that it intended to return the A500 to production after re-engineering it to lose 1,000 lb (454 kg) of empty weight and recertifying it.
It was listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange on 7 October 2010 with the IPO price of HK$3.48 per share.
Soy protein in chicken products In 2017, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) investigated chicken sold by five fast-food restaurants.
Bachelder is served as interim CEO until the former Pier 1 CFO, Robert Riesbeck took over in November 2019.
The balance available, if any, after the non-preferential creditors are repaid is distributed amongst the company's shareholders.
§ 1692g(a) requires specific information regarding the consumer's right to dispute all or part of the debt to be provided in writing to the consumer within 5 days of the initial communication.
In 1979, Bob Goodfriend became president of the business and the company changed its merchandise focus from the outlet model to offering current, first-quality, brand-name merchandise.
Non legal staff familiar with bankruptcy and the assignment process can also affect the speed validity of the process.
Northern Telecom was the first company in its industry to announce and deliver a complete line of fully digital telecommunications products.
AEI had large national customers into international markets, while DMX had dealt with smaller businesses.
By 1981, Crazy Eddie operated ten locations, including a Manhattan store on East 57th Street on the Upper East Side.
The Force Drive drive train is integrated into the Ford Transit Connect Electric, Ford E-Series Balance Hybrid, as well has a number of other passenger and medium and heavy duty trucks.
Harrison made its products more functional for users with disabilities, designing larger fonts so that people with vision problems could see them.
These dates must fall due on the same day and be in the same currency, but can be agreed in advance.
The receivership remedy is an equitable remedy that emerged in the English chancery courts, where receivers were appointed to protect real property.
Both the AFM and Burch bankruptcy cases were subsequently converted to "asset" cases by the Bankruptcy Trustee after assets for distribution to unsecured creditors were discovered.
The remaining open stores in Northwest Indiana were sold in bankruptcy auction to the Strack and Van Til families and the Indiana Grocery Group.
1980s Before the Internet, companies like DAK relied on catalogs and print ads to generate sales and incurred high costs for printing and mailing.
Zeckendorf secured the loan by giving the Teamsters Union his lease of the park's 149-acre (60 ha) site, among other sites; this resolved the park's short-term debt.
This process is known as creditors voluntary liquidation (CVL), as opposed to members voluntary liquidation (MVL) which is for solvent companies.
The airline's first president, Mike Malik, rebranded the airline, launched a host of new products and services, and established "Aloha Tech Ops", the MRO division.
Target would sell the remaining 64 to 74 acquired locations to other retailers, including 39 already resold to Walmart Canada.
An unsecured creditor is a creditor other than a preferential creditor that does not have the benefit of any security interests in the assets of the debtor.
reincorporated as the real estate company that currently does business, using the real estate that its stores had previously occupied.
filed for liquidation in February 2021, citing low customer numbers because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
After the Zellers stores at the selected locations closed, Target planned to renovate between 125 and 135 of them, and reopen them under the Target banner.
Lift 6 (Cornice Express) is a high speed detachable lift serving advanced terrain, as well as allowing skiers to traverse to the Timber Creek area through Sentinel Bowl.
First, it only operated seasonally, thus reducing potential income; this contrasted with Disneyland, which operated year-round.
In the 1990s, Diadora was also the official kit supplier of several Italian football clubs, including AS Roma for three seasons, between 1997 and 2000.
Prior to the purchase, Mega and Mattel were partners in adding Mattel brands to Mega "Worlds" plus a line for Mattel's American Girl that competes with Lego's Friends line.
On the 5 September 2024, ASOS announced that it sold a 75% stake of Topshop & Topman to the Danish company Bestseller.
Manhattan real estate developer Joel Schreiber purchased a 33% interest in the company for $15 million.
1940—1970: Wartime contributions and wide-scale use During World War II, Masonite’s hardboard became an important substitute for metals.
In the event of the bankruptcy of the debtor, the secured creditor can enforce security against the assets of the debtor and avoid competing for a distribution on liquidation with the unsecured creditors.
See also Landmarks of the Nebraska Territory References External links Official website The Archway Monument on VisitNebraska.org Archived July 19, 2011, at the Wayback Machine Federal bankruptcy court documents via archive.org Review Essay in the Spring 2001 Great Plains Quarterly
In 1992, the chain was advertising its two remaining locations in Manhattan—at 51st Street and Broadway (originally the famous Lindy's location), and at 45th Street and Eighth Avenue.
On November 28, 2008, Enerjet received an air operator's certificate (AOC) and Air Operator License issued by the Canadian Transportation Agency.
International expansion In 1981, the restaurant opened its first international franchise in Australia under the name Charlie Cheese's Pizza Playhouse.
The chain filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy again in 1987, planning to close 26 of 29 stores and operate 3 stores, two in Lima, Ohio and one in Wauseon, Ohio.
By 2024, Hampton Farms in Portales employed 170 people, and was the community's fifth-largest employer.
However, some countries have "ring-fenced" payments made for fraudulent trading so that they are made available to the pool of assets for unsecured creditors.
Leon has also introduced a retail grocery range, including sauces and frozen meals, which were sold through UK supermarkets such as Sainsbury’s and Ocado.
According to the New York Times, it caters to those in New York society who derive "fame from power rather than the other way around".
In other jurisdictions various forms of ad hoc cross-border cooperation exist on the basis of a foreign main proceeding.
Gertner initially proposed a repayment plan that returned a very small amount of money to his creditors with a total of 500,000 GBP was to be split between all creditors.
Common items for exemption include clothing, furniture, appliances, motor vehicles, medical and dental aids, a home, family heirlooms, and some insurance.
When the company closed, the team removed their logos on their cars, although the logo remained on the firesuits.
However, access to such procedures may still be restricted due to barriers such as the requirement to pay for legal procedures, limited size of the debt, or if one already went through a procedure before.
Any person wanting to make an application for a protected trust deed must have been a resident of Scotland for at least six months prior to making the application.
Policy For many years, it was city policy in Ottawa that buildings in the downtown core not be taller than the Peace Tower of the Parliament Hill buildings.
The patent for the Railplow was transferred to a subsidiary of the two companies and 360networks received a royalty-free, exclusive license for the use of the Railplow, giving it a significant advantage over some of its competitors that also utilized rail corridors.
Loan Xpress will forgive 75 percent of the amount borrowed by the majority of Silver State Helicopter's 2,700 students with the percentage of loan forgiveness per individual will vary by the amount of training that students successfully completed.
JW-SEZ Raiwind The Board of Investment (BoI) has approved MG JW Automobile Pakistan Pvt Ltd to manufacture electric vehicles in the country’s first private Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Raiwind.
The refinery received its first shipment of crude oil on 12 March 1924, with product coming "on-stream" on 17 May 1924.
It was initially established in January 1984 as a joint venture with BAIC Motor of Beijing, China, and American Motors Corporation (AMC) of Michigan, USA; therefore named Beijing Jeep Corporation (Chinese: 北京吉普汽车有限公司).
In May 2023, due to market policy by the Indian government, SAIC was forced to reduce shareholding in the venture.
Trillian restores AOL IM connection Archived 2007-11-07 at the Wayback Machine, CNN (February 26, 2002).
Awards Vice News has won four Peabody Awards for its documentary programs, The Islamic State and Last Chance High in 2015, Charlottesville: Race and Terror in 2017, and Losing Ground in 2020.
Entering into the program automatically classifies a player as professional, and thus disqualifies them from playing college soccer.
In 2021, the Federal Board of Revenue (FBR) investigated MG Motors in Pakistan for under-invoicing vehicles to evade taxes.
TV Group, as president of business operations in s the newly created position, to reduce the number of direct reports from 17 to about 8.
The company The BPA board comprises five directors, although the articles of association allows for up to ten.
Diamond has also missed payments to the Texas Rangers, Cleveland Guardians, Cincinnati Reds and Minnesota Twins of MLB and the Orlando Magic of the NBA.
Branch: Bari, Italy) TMEIC International Corporation (Istanbul, Turkey) Toshiba Mitsubishi-Electric Industrial Systems (China) Corporation (Beijing, China.
Games – Allowed users to play games, such as chess, billiards, checkers and backgammon; launched upon acquisition of ClassicGames.com in 1997, shut down in 2016.
Examples Filter RSS feeds Convert CSV to JSON or XML Extract HTML via CSS Selectors Get AppLinks meta data Parse any XML source Rate limits Use of the YQL should not exceed reasonable request volume.
The event, held at the Westgate Las Vegas Resort & Casino on July 11–13, had a total prize pool of US$100,000 and was described by IGN as "the 'World Cup' of competitive fighting games." Games Eight major tournaments were held at Evo 2014.
It is owned by a joint venture between American media group A&E Networks, and Network18 Group, an Indian media group a subsidiary of Reliance Industries.
The company has also granted voluntary licenses to 14 generics companies to enable the low-cost manufacture and sale of generic versions of the company's products in specific countries and/or regions.
GameWorks filed its second bankruptcy in 2010; as a result, Sega Entertainment USA, the parent company at that time, closed seven GameWorks venues on March 29, in an attempt to focus on profitability and future growth.
Prior to Game 3 of the 1995 World Series, Cleveland Indians slugger Albert Belle unleashed a profanity-laced tirade at NBC reporter Hannah Storm as she was waiting in the Indians' dugout for a prearranged interview with Indians lead-off man, Kenny Lofton.
In 2003, Fandango secured $15 million in funding from venture capitalists Technology Crossover Ventures.
Most of the companies acquired by Yahoo are based in the United States; 78 of the companies are from the United States, and 15 are based in a foreign country.
MGM+ On Demand MGM+ On Demand, a television video on demand service, is available to the channel's subscribers at no additional cost.
The plant solely produced vehicles for international exports, while vehicles for domestic market supply are manufactured by 50-50 joint ventures Dongfeng Honda and Guangqi Honda.
In May 2017, it was announced that PEPS had produced and sold more than 5000 electric bus powertrains for the Chinese market.
The service requires internet connection, television models able to support a HbbTV 1.5 standard and the manufacturer making the service available on the TV receiver.
UF4+F2 → UF6 Distillation Finally, uranium hexafluoride from the previous step is purified in a two-stage distillation system.
However, pricing disagreements, and international sanctions on Russia have caused delays in delivery and production.
In February 2017, CGG received a six-year contract to operate a processing centre in Seria for 2D, 3D, and 4D seismic data.
The Japan Consortium covers broadcasts of the Olympic Games (Summer and Winter), Paralympic Games (Summer and Winter), FIFA World Cup, Asian Games, and other major tournaments.
On March 15, 1930, the board of directors of SAVA approved a share capital increase of 4,000,000 Lire and afterwards, on April 11 of that same year, FIAT purchased the entire shareholding.
The BMA alliance operates five mines in the Bowen Basin: Broadmeadow Caval Ridge Goonyella Riverside Peak Downs Saraji BMA also operates Moranbah Airport and part of the Hay Point Coal Terminal.
From 1991 to 1994, VH1 (also owned by Viacom) carried ANC-produced interstitials during the morning music video block Hits, News & Weather.
He brings our trademark color pink to life." Asbestos controversy In 1978, two shipyard workers filed a class action lawsuit against which alleged that Owens-Corning and 14 other manufacturers had known about asbestos-containing products.
In 2023, Tony Excoffon succeeded Sugato Bhattacharjee as Nexcelle’s President, based on the alternating management agreement of the two parent companies.
Shortly after the Miss USA 2022 competition, the Miss Universe Organization suspended the organizers of the Miss USA pageant (headed by Crystle Stewart) after allegations of favoritism toward the eventual winner, R'Bonney Gabriel, while she was still Miss Texas USA.
See also Canadian Centre for Energy Information History of the petroleum industry in Canada (oil sands and heavy oil) Scotford Upgrader Suncor References Further reading External links Official website Canadian Oil Sands Trust Archived 27 May 2010 at the Wayback Machine Pollution Watch Canada
However, due to the growth of popularity and acceptance of mixed martial arts in the United States in the following years, the company would continue to grow.
Services The bank provides a range of financial products including travel money, insurance, credit cards, savings and loans, having withdrawn from the mortgage market in 2019.
Wind Force filed for a permit with the West Virginia Public Service Commission to build a 166 turbine wind farm, which would have been the largest wind farm east of the Mississippi River.
The frequent failures of JLVs have led to criticism of the Singapore government's conceptualisation and implementation of the JLV.
It uses a V-shaped hull of steel and monocoque construction to direct the force of the blast away from the occupants under a Ural truck chassis.
During this period, the name i-Guide became associated with the products, which gained a reputation for strong promotion of advertising similar to the ads that appear on web pages today.
Games The eight games played at Evo 2018 were announced on February 6, 2018, during a special announcement stream on Twitch, with event co-founder Joey Cuellar discussing the inclusion of each game.
The title sold only 50,000 units and is considered one of the worst video games of all time, and left Steven Spielberg, one of the owners of DreamWorks, in doubt about continuing a video game company.
Centering on a newly built production base in Shenzhen, it had an annual production capacity of 200,000 vehicles.
also did not do critic pre-screenings for The House, which held a score of 16% until the day of its release, and opened to just $8.7 million; the lowest of star Will Ferrell's career.
As of July 2015, the first incarnation of Yahoo had acquired 114 companies, with Polyvore being the latest.
Training The SJI Training Center provides the support for SSJ100 flight and maintenance training through courses for: Flight crews (Type Rating and Recurrent), cabin crews (Transition and Refresher) and Maintenance and Ground Operations staff.
Wave Money (Burmese: ဝေ့မန်းနီး) is a mobile financial services provider in Myanmar which was established in 2016.
It then became part of ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks on December 4, 2019, when CBS merged with Viacom.
Successful identification and repair of the leak narrowly averted a planned lock down of the station in an attempt to isolate the leak, which would have affected station operations.
As the 1990s continued, Tropicana further expanded internationally, entering several more Latin American countries, Hong Kong and China.
On March 20, 2015, Aniplex and German distributor Peppermint Enterprises announced the establishment of Peppermint Anime GmbH, a joint venture aimed at expanding Japanese anime distribution in German-speaking countries.
Fincke and Chamitoff wave goodbye but express their relief at Garriott's leaving as he was annoying them with his constant talk of computer games.
The Corridor Pipeline which transports diluted bitumen from the Muskeg River Mine to the Scotford Upgrader is owned by Inter Pipeline Ltd.
From early 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic and the enforcement of the movement control order, Touch 'n Go eWallet and other competing e-wallet services have seen boosted in popularity as many users rely on these services to make payments for take-out and donations for zakat.
On May 15, 2023, Vice Media formally filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, as part of a possible sale to a consortium of lenders including Fortress Investment Group, which will, alongside Soros Fund Management and Monroe Capital, invest $225 million as a credit bid for nearly all of its assets.
The show aired on Nickelodeon from May 9, 1991, to March 11, 1994, and continued in reruns often in early morning time slots right after Nick at Nite had finished (usually as part of Cable in the Classroom) until September 1, 2000.
Leasys, a subsidiary of FCA Bank, in 2018 acquired Winrent, a short-term rental company and at the same time continued its internationalization path.
A number of their juice products designed for an extended shelf life are colored with carmine, an extract of cochineal beetles.
Smith Scott Thompson Maynard Webb (2012) – chairman, Yahoo; founder, Webb Investment Network; chairman and former CEO of LiveOps Gary L.
A second production facility is at Dharwad, Karnataka, and this facility can produce up to 30,000 buses per year.
Transdev John Holland Buses inherited a fleet of 474 buses from the STA, which included Volvo B12BLEs, Mercedes-Benz O500LEs, Volvo B12BLEAs, Scania K310UBs, Scania K280UBs, Volvo B8RLEs and Custom Denning Elements.
Frontier and a mobile seed cleaning business, formed a joint venture operation in 2013, to process and market seed in the East Midlands.
Shortly after Kelly's arrival at the Space Station, A Beautiful Planet shows him participating in an initial examination of his eye, to study and correct any vision decline reported by many astronauts.
Research & Technology Centers Chevron Phillips Chemical has two US based Research and Technology Centers.
On December 24, 2021, GameWorks announced that it would be closing all of its remaining locations, citing financial difficulties brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Battery Park was constructed on a site purchased by the Kentucky state in 2002 to attract Hyundai to build a car plant.
In 2005, Daimler decided against purchasing a 50% share in the Dutch NedCar plant used to manufacture the ForFour, ending its production.
Tata Marcopolo (officially Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd.) is a bus and coach manufacturing company with headquarters in Karnataka, India.
During 2018, transactions amounted to $1.3 billion, which is approx 2 percent of Myanmar's GDP, and raised to $4.3 billion during 2019.
On August 6, 2003, EA Los Angeles moved from their offices in Bel Air to a new campus in Playa Vista.
AWAC's business is the mining of bauxite, the extraction of alumina (aluminium oxide) and the smelting of aluminium.
Bankruptcy and sale (2023–present) In January 2023, Vice began exploring the possibility of selling itself.
History On December 31, 2016, the project to create an equal joint venture between CK Hutchison Holdings, owner of 3 Italy, and VimpelCom, owner of Wind Telecomunicazioni, was completed.
Exide Life Insurance distributed its products through multiple channels, including an agency channel with over 40,000 advisors and more than 200 company offices across the country.
According to congresswoman Helen Delich Bentley (Rep., MD), when challenged, they told the Army, "It is policy—so sue us." == References ==
In February 2011, Sollers decided to terminate their partnership with Fiat at the end of the year, and the Naverezhny Chelny plant was offered to Ford as part of the new Ford Sollers joint venture.
The reasons for the crash were never fully investigated and the results of the limited investigation were only made public in 1990.
The joint venture subsequently was selected to provide the nacelle and thrust reverser for GE's Passport integrated propulsion system, which powers the Bombardier Global 7000 and Global 8000 business jets.
In 2023, True North announced that it would sell a 20% stake in the company to Bupa for ₹2,700 crore (US$320 million), making Bupa the majority shareholder at 63%.
As of 1 May 2020, Touch 'n Go eWallet has facilitated donations to 22 non-governmental organizations in Malaysia with amounts worth more than RM280,000 (~US$69,000).
On January 6, 2020, Fujifilm announced that it would not renew its technology agreement with Xerox when it expires at the end of March 2021, and that Fuji Xerox would be renamed Fujifilm Business Innovation Corporation in April 2021.
While Fandango initially chose to keep the "Vudu" name for brand recognition as the larger of the two services, it would eventually be renamed to Fandango at Home on February 15, 2024.
In January 2011, Reach sold FLAG North Asia Loop System to PCCW Global (Singapore), a subsidiary of HKT.
On June 30, 2007, Toshiba Corporation sold the remaining 45% stake in the company to EMI, giving EMI full ownership of the company.
A government probe later found Xerox Modi Corp had violated certain corruption laws and in May 2005 it was reported that action would be taken against the company.
Space Explorers: The ISS Experience is a Canadian virtual reality series directed by Félix Lajeunesse and Paul Raphaël, and produced in association with Time Studios.
On April 13, 2020, the channel resumed its regular primetime programming after 24 Oras, and its full programming was restored by September 21.
By 1991, all these Famicom Network System online services had shut down, except for the Super Mario Club as the sole final application of the Famicom Modem and Network System.
In February 2019, Max India's entire 51% stake was acquired by Fettle Tone LLP, an affiliate of Indian private equity firm True North, for ₹510 crore (US$72.42 million).
It allowed members to subscribe to various groups, read subscribed discussions online, view and share photos, files and bookmarks within a group, access a group calendar, create polls for group members, and receive email notifications of new discussion topics.
See also Human rights in the People's Republic of China List of Chinese dissidents External links Dissident jailed 'after Yahoo handed evidence to police' Times online article about Li Zhi Man jailed for posting critical comment online Sydney Morning Herald article about Li Zhi == References ==
A number of employees had been found stealing confidential data from its Silicon Valley software subsidiary that develops software for machine optimization.
KDF is located on a 2.5-hectare (6.2-acre) parcel of land leased from the Natural Energy Laboratory of Hawaii Authority (NELHA), which is located on the west shore of the island of Hawaii.
In 1993, the United States and Russia agreed to merge their separate space station plans into a single facility integrating their respective modules and incorporating contributions from the European Space Agency and Japan.
websites during the month in comparison to Google websites—the occasion was the first time that Yahoo!
In collaboration with Aniplex, SACRA MUSIC aims to strengthen its overseas expansion efforts and promote its artists' activities on a global scale by participating in events and holding overseas concerts.
Like History (which is 50% owned by Disney through A&E Networks) and Discovery Channel, the channel features documentaries with factual content involving nature, science, culture, and history, plus some reality and pseudo-scientific entertainment programming.
See also UK Oil Pipeline Network Oil and Pipelines Agency References External links BPA website Linewatch Map including BPA Network
According to The Financial Times, the company's co-ownership structure may change depending on the achievement of certain milestones.
In June 2019, Toshiba Memory Holdings Corporation experienced a power cut at one of its factories in Yokkaichi, Japan, resulting in the loss of at least 6 exabytes of flash memory, with some sources estimating the loss as high as 15 exabytes.
Models Special/Club Citroën Axel Gallery See also Bulgarrenault Oyak-Renault Polski Fiat References External links Media related to Oltcit at Wikimedia Commons
Following the formation of German Democratic Republic during 1949, many of the deported German scientists were allowed to return to East Germany and to practice their professions once more.
Production Garriott, as a private space explorer, flew into Earth orbit aboard Soyuz TMA-13 on October 12, 2008, docked on the 14th, and returned on October 24 after 10 days aboard the ISS.
Coverage on most competitions took feeds from the WTA international TV feed, but with larger events from the Premier Mandatory and Premier 5 category matches, Sam Smith or occasionally Annabel Croft presented coverage alongside Martina Navratilova.
Ocean Odyssey was 90 minutes timed ticketed walk-through attraction with retail space plus private event space managed by the Shubert Organization.
Initially launched in October 2008 with access to Yahoo APIs, February 2009 saw the addition of open data tables from third parties such as Google Reader, the Guardian, and The New York Times.
Programming 24 to Life 48 Hours Mystery Australian Federal Police: Frontline Beyond Scared Straight Bloodwork Born to Kill?
The rebrand would result in the addition of more reality series, talk shows and other original series from Lifetime to the channel's films and television dramas.
Nat Geo TV Nat Geo TV is an application for smartphones and tablet computers, along with Windows 10.
Santa Elina and MSP paid the rest of the debt through what they owned from Biopalma's participation in quitting their debt with Itaú.
Although Spring Airlines uses Airbus A320 aircraft, the 737 was chosen for its Japanese subsidiary due to Boeing's greater popularity among Japanese airlines and the relative ease of finding 737-qualified pilots.
Although Legends began as a concessions company it has since expanded to help teams build and operate stadiums.
TMEIC Corporation (株式会社TMEIC) ( TEE-myke) is a joint venture between Toshiba and Mitsubishi Electric headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, specializing in industrial electric and automation systems for industrial plants.
NTT's launch initially suffered reliability problems that were painstakingly assessed by Nintendo at individual users' homes and traced back to the network.
Pantelion Films said that Latinos were the fastest growing segment of the movie going audience in the 2010s and were loyal DVD consumers.
The channel is fully owned by the National Geographic Society with no involvement from Disney General Entertainment Content.
Headquarters Fujifilm Business Innovation Corporation has its headquarters situated at Tokyo Midtown West in Minato, Tokyo.
Melee BlazBlue: Chrono Phantasma Killer Instinct Injustice: Gods Among Us King of Fighters XIII Tekken Tag 2 2014 was the first year to feature Killer Instinct as a main title at the Evolution Championship Series.
History Tognum AG was formed when private equity fund EQT IV acquired in late 2005 several Off-Highway divisions of DaimlerChrysler.
The circuit will focus on Guilty Gear Xrd REV 2, BlazBlue: Cross Tag Battle, and BlazBlue: Central Fiction.
According to Zappa, this was because a Phonogram executive objected to the lyrics of a Zappa single titled "I Don't Wanna Get Drafted".
The service catered towards fans of geek and nerd culture, featuring cult classic films and television series, digital comics, and behind-the-scenes content from Wizard World's Comic Cons.
After two months of launching Wave Money, the number of its subscribers reached 100000 customers and reached 1.3 million as of March 2018.
On 4 February that year, the Spanish-language feed was launched on the operator in Spanish-speaking markets.
In 1999, Summers published his memoir with Hollander titled Everything in Its Place: My Trials and Triumphs with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, detailing his experiences living with the condition.
It entered a JV disposition agreement with SK On and SK Battery America, dividing ownership of the plants.
In October 2016, a second Vice News program, a nightly news program called Vice News Tonight, premiered.
Dongfeng and GAC had formed separate joint venture with Honda as Dongfeng Honda (in July 2003) and Guangqi Honda (in 1998) respectively.
In 2001, the three year alliance came to an end, at which point, under the terms of the deal, both AOL and Sun retained equal rights to the code that had been jointly developed.
The film offers distinctive views of Earth and provides insight into the day-to-day activities of the crews, captured over fifteen months aboard the space station.
Reports suggest that the consolidation may also affect mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) that rely on Three and Vodafone’s networks, potentially altering pricing structures and service offerings for budget-conscious consumers.
set up their own marketing and production unit in the UK in Theobalds Road, London, having acquired Oriole Records and its record-pressing plant that had prospered in manufacturing discs for U.K.
He hosted the CBS News morning programs, The Early Show and its predecessor, CBS This Morning, for seventeen years.
To contrast itself from the "grittier" offerings of other mainstream cable networks, USA Network's original programming during this era was marked by a focus on comedic and "optimistic" action and drama series, referred to as a "blue sky" approach.
Design The MPV debuted in 2010, with the design aimed at protection of Indian security forces conducting anti-terrorism and anti-Naxalite operations in India's rugged forested and hilly terrains.
Cooperation Manufacturing Plant Aguascalientes (COMPAS) is a joint venture manufacturing plant between Mercedes-Benz Group and Nissan based in Aguascalientes, Mexico.
On 2 October 2020, Vice Media Group appointed Nadja Bellan-White as the global CMO, to be in charge of worldwide branding, communications and promotions.
to Style Rowhouse Showdown Lost in Love Best in Bridal The Coolest Places on Earth Bio Programs BIO Classroom Biography My Ghost Story My Ghost Story Asia My Ghost Story: Caught On Camera Hollywood Cold Case Files Panic 911 I Survived...
All News Channel was never profitable throughout its history and could not withstand the challenges of MSNBC and Fox News Channel (both launched in 1996), which pushed ANC to fifth place in the ratings—behind Headline News—among all cable news channels.
On September 17, it was announced that Vice would air MLW's Fightland as a television special on October 7.
History The company was spun out of National CineMedia in 2013 to focus on live performances that National CineMedia had started presenting; the parent company remained focused on producing advertising for movie theaters, which had been its original business.
In late 2006, Sony Pictures Television and KingWorld planned a new game show called Combination Lock, with Summers hosting the first pilot.
It was damaged during transport to the launch site on 25 May 2016, and repairs might take up to two year.
An agreement to manufacture the F1A diesel engine for the Fiat Ducato and the UAZ Patriot in Nizhniy Novgorod was signed in December 2006.
This includes the Nikon 24-70mm f/2.8E ED VR, the Nikkor 600mm f/4G AF-S VR ED, the Nikon 800mm f/5.6E FL ED VR, and the Nikon AF-S FX TC-14E III 1.4x Teleconverter.
Some analysts believe the goal of the coalition was to try to force AOL toward a more open IM standard.
Grip tape as used on skateboards or stairwells is placed strategically throughout the loop to prevent slipping.
Viceland was not relaunched, but the new deal saw its content dispersed across some Bell-owned services such as MTV, Much, and Crave.
The city residences correspond to business travelers on a long term assignment but also French or foreign families on vacation, who can use their kitchens in these apartments and avoid restaurant expenses.
It became one of USA Network's first breakout hit series, and ran for eight seasons until it ended on December 4, 2009.
The plan spearheaded by Germany and Italy included a module which would be attached to Freedom, and with the capability to evolve into a full-fledged European orbital outpost before the end of the century.
From its inception in 2001 until Friday, February 27, 2009, the DNA was responsible for the non-editorial operations of both major newspapers in Denver, the Rocky Mountain News (owned by the E.
On November 10, 2023, Legends announced it would be acquiring California-based ASM Global for an undisclosed amount.
Due to their small staff on 9/11, the network could only be live for 30 minutes per hour and then repeat the broadcast.
Flurry also merged with a company called Pinch Media based in New York that was working on a similar product, and together they had almost 80% marketshare for mobile analytics.
I also think it and its competitors will eventually transform into services that more directly serve the interests of mail recipients.
Formed in 2008, Legends is a joint venture of Yankee Global Enterprises and Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys.
Sony Music Entertainment Japan was officially incorporated in March 1968 as a Tokyo-based 50/50 joint venture between Sony and U.S.
Programming The network rebroadcasts a direct feed of NEW-10 Perth, including programming and events produced in Perth.
In 1967, ACC was bought out by Purolator Filters, who made automotive oil filtration systems (hence the name "Pure-oil-later" = "Pur-o-lator").
Lewis's Ferrari 360 Challenge Stradale collided with an unidentified 1977 Porsche before hitting a light pole.
Telkomsel is the largest cellular telecommunication carrier in the country with 169.5 million customer base as of 2020.
Language editions Active In April 1995, National Geographic began publishing in Japanese, its first local language edition.
When CNBC acquired FNN in 1991, FNN: Sports was dropped in favor of the weekend talk programming on CNBC.
ESPN also had international holdings: Eurosport (33.3%, England), TV Sport (10%, France; Eurosport affiliate) and The Japan Sports Channel (20%).
At the hot shear line, steel coils of 1–8 mm (0.039–0.315 in) thickness and 800–1,600 mm (31–63 in) width can be cut to sheets of 1,000–8,000 mm (39–315 in) length.
Under such structures, it has manufactured elements of the following engines: IAE V2500, General Electric CF34-8/-10, General Electric GEnx, Rolls-Royce Trent 1000, Pratt & Whitney PW1100/1400G-JM, General Electric Passport 20 engine and General Electric GE9X.
It has three alumina refineries in Western Australia, located at Kwinana Beach, Pinjarra and Wagerup, and two bauxite mines at Huntly and Willowdale, also in Western Australia.
Buzz – A community-based news article service that allowed users to publish news stories; shut down on April 21, 2011.
JDCR's victory in an Echo Fox team kill Grand Finals lead to him receiving his second EVO championship, his previous title was in 2014 for Tekken Tag Tournament 2.
The implementation of drag-reducing flight modes of the space station resulted in saving about 1,000 kg of orbital-maintenance propellant per year.
Vice originally operated under the creative direction of film director Spike Jonze, and had a focus on lifestyle-oriented documentary and reality series aimed towards millennials; including new original series, and adaptations and reruns of existing Vice web series.
Announced in June 2018, when test broadcasting started, it was formally launched on 28 November 2018.
Bostock Patti Hart Eric Hippeau Sue James (2010) – retired partner, Ernst & Young Vyomesh Joshi David Kenny Timothy Koogle Robert Kotick Max Levchin (2012) – chairman and CEO, HVF, LLC Peter Liguori Daniel S.
AOL entered into an agreement with systems and software company Sun Microsystems whereby engineers from both companies would work together on software development, marketing, sales, installation and support.
Programmes Initial programmes Pawn Stars (2016–) Mountain Men (2016–) American Restoration (2016–) Exclusive A&E programming (April 2019—) Pawn Stars Storage Wars Counting Cars Programmes from Sky History Britain's Greatest Obsessions with Harry Hill, Chris Packham and Suggs.
This merger means that Telkomsel will begin to expand its coverage in the fixed broadband market while preparing for the transition to a digital economy and 5G technology.
Products and services Content Along with the core of AOL, brands such as Engadget, Autoblog, TechCrunch, and Built by Girls became part of Verizon Media (now Yahoo) in 2015.
Company operations TBC markets on a wholesale basis to regional tire chains and distributors serving independent tire dealers throughout the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
Services Flurry Analytics Flurry Analytics enables users to analyze consumer behavior through data observations.
In November 2024, Niva Bupa went public with an initial public offering and listed on the NSE and BSE, with Bupa continuing as the sole promoter after the IPO with an ownership of over 55%.
High-definition feed On September 1, 2008, History Channel Asia officially launched their own History HD Asia channel in Singapore and Hong Kong, followed by Japan, South Korea (Localized Version Launched), India, Philippines and Malaysia.
As of April 2008, the company's largest acquisition is the purchase of Broadcast.com, an Internet radio company, for $5.7 billion, making Broadcast.com co-founder Mark Cuban a billionaire.
Weed and insect resistance Recently, rapid emergence of weeds thought to be resistant to Roundup have been observed.
On October 3, 1994, the equity ratio of the company was changed, in which EMI obtained 55% with Toshiba owning the remaining 45%.
West Digital Television was also due to close down on 1 July 2024, but the Albanese government's communications department approved $32.9 million in an increase in funding the costs for the station's satellite contract.
The spacecraft concept would have a dry mass of 5.5 tons, and could store up to 13 tons of xenon propellant.
It was reported in 2004, that the joint venture would export most of their products to Europe, as well as Southeast Asia.
The International Space Station Archaeological Project (ISSAP) is a research group working in the areas of space and contemporary archaeology.
When you hold that L and run it back: EVO.”; the message is a response to all of the passion and support that the fighting game community has done towards the events and fighting games.
The joint venture was formally established during 1981, it became a part of the larger International Aero Engines (IAE) consortium in the following year.
Banks Cargill Agriculture was formed in February 2001 between Cargill and Sidney C Banks, a UK grain trader based in Sandy.
"Modelos de negocio en el nuevo entorno mediático: LovesTV como coopetición en la televisión híbrida y hacia el servicio OTT".
Nickelodeon Launch Box is an educational television series that was produced jointly by Nickelodeon, NASA and the Astronauts Memorial Foundation.
Structure In the agreement that created Nova Andino Litio Codelco maintains control of the assets while SQM runs the operation in Salar de Atacama.
Unlike NBC, ABC, CBS, Fox and The WB (the latter of which debuted its own children's program block, Kids' WB, the day before UPN Kids made its debut), UPN ran its weekend morning children's programs on Sundays instead of Saturdays.
Operational history In August 2011, the first production series vehicles were delivered to Jharkhand Police.
Fleet development Spring Airlines Japan took delivery of its first aircraft, a Boeing 737-800, on 17 July 2013.
Novel and film In 1996 the Swedish novelist Jacques Werup adapted her life in his novel Den ofullbordade himlen ("The Imperfect Sky").
He sortied in command of 1st Division of the 'Young Guard' under fire, was wounded by grapeshot in the right leg and his horse was killed under him by five 'biscaïen' (large musket shots), but he remained on the battlefield until midnight despite the pain of his wounds.
They initially reported that his parachute had been sabotaged, with the risers (fabric connectors between the harness and lines) for his reserve parachute having been deliberately cut with a hook knife.
After previously running for Nike, on November 25, 2014, it was announced that he had signed with Hoka One One.
The conviction of OLL Ltd was the first example of a successful corporate manslaughter prosecution in the United Kingdom.
The Dughlat historian Mirza Muhammad Haidar characterized Saniz Mirza as a "violent, but generous man".
Kayode won the silver medal in 4 × 100 m relay at the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, together with teammates Chidi Imoh, Olapade Adeniken and Davidson Ezinwa.
He followed that up with a pair of strong finishes at the World Cross Country Championships the next year.
Matylda Vilma Pálfyová (11 March 1912 – 23 September 1944) was a Slovak gymnast who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics, helping her team to a silver medal.
Hugh Weir reported to the Australian Olympic Federation that Because Ross Milne was only seventeen years of age, the question was raised at the [Innsbruck] IOC meeting as to whether inexperienced people were being sent to compete in ...
29 March 1912), married on 4 July 1863 Sir William Earle Welby-Gregory, 4th Baronet He died in 1844 of the effects of a hunting accident suffered earlier in life.
At that time he was elected Sports Secretary of Haji Muhammad Muhsin Hall student council on behalf of Bangladesh Chhatra League.
Harry died in 1943 after drowning in the Murray River attempting to retrieve a duck he had just shot.
Kayode was an All-American sprinter for the BYU Cougars track and field team, placing runner-up in the 200 metres at the 1993 NCAA Division I Outdoor Track and Field Championships.
Deaths of active drivers This is a list of notable deaths in NASCAR and untimely deaths of professional NASCAR drivers.
The aquatic area used was not constructed for competitive swimming, and the water was reportedly contaminated, which led to health risks for a few athletes, including Bratton and his teammate George Van Cleaf.
1851–1897) was an American inventor, credited with introducing electric motors for the purpose of marine propulsion.
Bombing Centennial Olympic Park was designed as the "town square" of the Olympics, and thousands of spectators had gathered for a late concert by the band Jack Mack and the Heart Attack.
In 667, Saborios was the governing general (strategos) of the theme of the Armeniacs, covering the northeastern part of Byzantine Anatolia.
As a junior, Fagernes competed on top national level in cycling, athletics, and cross country skiing, before deciding to focus on javelin.
Wellman, Busby Berkeley and William Dieterle, his film career ended with his death on October 30, 1935, one week before his 32nd birthday, from a skull fracture sustained in a polo accident that had occurred three days earlier.
Lou Gehrig - New York Yankees's first baseman who was forced into retirement after being diagnosed with ALS, he would ultimately die from the disease, two years later in 1941.
About 30 boats searched for the jumpers along the axis from Huron to Vermilion, but efforts were hampered by the cold and strong winds.
Following Cocking's death parachuting became unpopular, and was confined to carnival and circus acts until the late 19th century, when developments such as the harness and breakaway chutes made it safer.
A stocky right-handed wicketkeeper-batsman, Sen first toured with the Indian team in 1947–48 in Australia where he was to act as the reserve keeper to Jenni Irani.
The Foothills Cuisine of Blackberry Farm: Recipes and Wisdom from Our Artisans, Chefs, and Smoky Mountain Ancestors with Marah Stets, Clarkson Potter, New York (2012).
Around 4,500 players brought multiple lawsuits against the NFL alleging that it had covered up a growing body of medical evidence about the preponderance of head-trauma related CTE in ex-NFL players, and some testimonials have come in that context.
Creighton, who had thus far played primarily in the infield, was brought on as a substitute pitcher.
Princess Alicia of Bourbon-Parma (13 November 1917 – 28 March 2017); she married Infante Alfonso, Duke of Calabria, on 16 April 1936.
Achievements Personal bests 3000 metres – 8:06.56 (2002) 5000 metres – 12:54.15 (2004) 10,000 metres – 27:12.22 (2005) Marathon – 2:08:46 (2006) References Dejene Berhanu at World Athletics Evans, Hilary; Gjerde, Arild; Heijmans, Jeroen; Mallon, Bill; et al.
The limited-rules event was billed as a "Ukraine Against the World" contest and drew about 4,000 spectators.
Edith Maud Cook (1 September 1878 – 14 July 1910), was an early British parachutist, balloonist, and aviator, recognized as Britain's first female pilot.
Achievements External links Interview with Franziska Rochat-Moser about her life growing up References Evans, Hilary; Gjerde, Arild; Heijmans, Jeroen; Mallon, Bill; et al.
However, as Chesham was serving in South Africa, Lord Churchill was appointed to act as Master of the Buckhounds in his absence.
In 1926 he settled in the city of Taganrog on Shevchenko street 111, where he founded The Taganrog Animal Theater of Anatoly Durov.
Bochatay was the third athlete to die at a Winter Olympics, after British luger Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski and Australian skier Ross Milne, who both died at Innsbruck 1964.
Lemp was elected mayor in April 1927 but was seriously injured in a polo accident shortly thereafter.
dead, Cricinfo, 4 December 2004 Fulham FC article on Andy Ducat Scorecard for his final match – 29 not out
His injuries were three broken vertebrae, two broken femurs, a broken collarbone, a punctured lung, and a smashed pelvis.
John Patrick McSherry (September 11, 1944 – April 1, 1996) was an American umpire in Major League Baseball who worked in the National League from 1971 until his death.
In 2002, he was elected to the Verkhovna Rada after winning a single-member districts seat as a member of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine in Manevychi.
The oldest of twelve children, Harry was recruited to Carlton by Jack Worrall and made his debut in Round 11, 1906, against Collingwood at Princes Park.
In 1835, Peralta participated in the Costa Rican civil war, the Guerra de la Liga (English: "War of the League") against Head of State Braulio Carrillo Colina.
That would remain his last victory on the track, because George Saling was killed in a car accident in Missouri six months after the Olympic Games, aged only 23.
He had a personal best of 13:45.37 minutes in the 5000 metres, achieved in March 2002 in Bellville, and 28:24.61 minutes in the 10,000 metres, achieved in March 2002 in Port Elizabeth.
FIS Ski Jumping World Cup, FIS Ski Jumping Continental Cup, FIS Nordic World Ski Championships, and the Olympic Games), though many ski jumpers have died during practice or in national events (nb:Skader og dødsulykker i skihopping).
Douglas Dedge (June 18, 1966 – March 18, 1998) was an American mixed martial artist who was the first known American competitor to be fatally injured in an MMA fight and the first death in the modern era of professional MMA.
The race developed into a thriller, with fellow Canadian runner Édouard Fabre matching Duffy's pace throughout.
Upshaw attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools where he averaged 24 points, 12 rebounds and seven assists as a junior in 2008, when he was named the most valuable player (MVP) of the Independent School League.
He successfully rode his last bull for the full eight seconds, and rode him an additional eight seconds in memory of Frost.
McConkey was known for combining BASE jumping with skiing, as seen in such feats as skiing into a BASE jump off the Eiger.
Robert Cocking (1776 – 24 July 1837) was a British watercolour artist who died in the first known fatal parachute accident.
A third tradition holds that two pioneers from Kentucky who were being held captive by Indians near Detroit, Michigan saw a man enter the Indian camp.
Bertil Gustafsson Uggla (19 August 1890 – 29 September 1945) was a Swedish officer, track and field athlete, modern pentathlete, and fencer.
In 1880, he was part of the Oxford University team that reached the FA Cup Final, where they met the previous year's losing finalists, Clapham Rovers.
Foley had nine DGA Award nominations and 21 Emmy nominations—a record for a single person working on a variety series.
According to some British reports, Fandiño had tripped on his cape, and perhaps even fallen, leaving him vulnerable to the goring.
Then Pálfyová worked in Košice as a correspondent from the age of 18, between 1934 and 1937 at Východoslovenské elektrárne, úč.
He died at Chertsey, Surrey, on 3 August 1878, after suffering a brain injury during a cricket match.
He produced and directed all 72 episodes of Live on Letterman including concerts with The Black Keys, The Killers, Adele, Phoenix, Taylor Swift, and Tim McGraw.
New York State boxing authorities were criticized for giving Paret clearance to fight just several months after the Fullmer fight.
Post World War I On 22 April 1919, Gerrard relinquished his posting as acting major and reverted to the rank of captain.
Borcke commanded the Prussian 9th Infantry Brigade of the Third Corps during the Hundred Days Campaign against Napoleon and fought in the battle of Ligny and was then the commander of the Fortress of Luxembourg in 1815.
One of his sons, Michael, has written a memoir, The Blue Cabin (2006), about his move to the family's former holiday house on the island of Islandmore on Strangford Lough.
Richard Alfred Weiss (September 18, 1963 – June 25, 1997), known as Rich Weiss, was a West German-born, American slalom kayaker who competed from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s.
Following the 2007 election, Hickey remained in cabinet as Minister of Labrador Affairs, but lost the transportation portfolio.
In return, Arghun offered to return Jerusalem to the Christians, once it was re-captured from the Muslims.
In 2007 Hickstead and Eric Lamaze won the coveted $1Million CN International at the Spruce Meadows "Masters" Archived 2011-11-21 at the Wayback Machine Tournament in Calgary, Alberta (Canada).
Brian Faulkner was educated initially at Elm Park preparatory school, Killylea, County Armagh, but at 14 was sent to the Church of Ireland-affiliated St Columba's College at Rathfarnham in Dublin, although Faulkner was Presbyterian.
1975) Westenholz, who lived at Little Blakesware, Hertfordshire, died at age 60 in a skiing accident on 9 March 2006.
His son, Abd al-Rahman ibn Mu'awiya, was the founder of the Emirate of Córdoba and the Umayyad line of al-Andalus.
Zrinski, Hungarian: Zrínyi Miklós; 5 January 1620 – 18 November 1664) was a Croatian and Hungarian military leader, statesman and poet.
In Detroit, Walker was reunited with former high school teammate Bobby Layne who the Lions acquired by trade in April 1950.
The NFL has implemented rule changes to reduce collisions to the head and has sought to improve football helmet design.
That year, there were five rider fatalities as a result of falls in the United Kingdom alone, four of which resulted from rotational falls.
In December 1836, President Sam Houston appointed Scurry as district attorney of the First Judicial District.
Notes External links Max Smith's playing statistics from AFL Tables Max Smith at AustralianFootball.com
Rankings During his career, Howard was ranked among the top jumpers in the US by Track and Field News.
Written works Klinische Beobachtungen aus der Augenheilanstalt in Wiesbaden (with Edwin Theodor Saemisch and Arnold Pagenstecher).
Lawrence Hospital, a short distance from the Polo Grounds, where he was diagnosed with a depressed skull fracture.
At the end of the women's marathon of the Paralympics, on 8 September, the organising committee held a minute of applause in her honour.
Disappearance On the morning of 6 December 1971, Major Mostaq, the director of Al-Badr forces, released Miraj from Dhaka Central Jail and took him in a jeep.
He is known to have performed exhibition jumps in Germany (Berlin and Bremen) and Russia (Moscow, Saint Petersburg).
I didn't hurt it," he said, though rope grooves in the soft sandstone were later found, possibly created or enhanced by the professional photographers Potter brought along to publicize the climb.
The same year, he was inducted in 51st Paratrooper Division, Airborne Corps, and from there, he was selected for the Special Service Group (SSG).
Estonia Erich Altosaar – though better known as a basketball player, he played for Kalev when they won the 1930 Estonian Football Championship.
Their consensus view is that the only thing that can definitely be said about the origin of cricket is that its earliest record is in a late 16th-century court case in Surrey which proves it was played by children in southeast England in the middle of that century.
But the king would hear nothing less than conquering the capital Ava (Inwa), and the court ultimately agreed to a full scale invasion.
By a royal decree of 19 March 2004, Prince Friso was granted the surname 'Van Oranje-Nassau van Amsberg', the hereditary noble predicate 'Jonkheer (Jonkvrouw) van Amsberg and the hereditary title 'Count of Orange-Nassau', to take effect upon his marriage.
Career Mützelburg joined the Reichsmarine of the Weimar Republic on 1 April 1932 as member of "Crew 32" (the incoming class of 1932).
The organisers eventually decided to temporarily suspend the remaining racing events following the fatal crash.
He accomplished the world record feat in front of dozens of spectators on January 25, 2006, plunging headfirst into the snow upon landing and having to be extricated by friends.
In his obituary, Saad Shafqat profiled Wasim Raja as a cult batting figure defined by a "relaxed attack" style, carefree demeanour, open-collared 1970s flair, and memorable off-side strokeplay, who valued entertainment as much as accumulation.
Dumas noted the warm temperature: "If the boys stick their nose in a 'topette' [bag of drugs] today, we could have a death on our hands".
Sometimes, the deaths came during competition or practice, while other times deaths occurred due to road accidents or other non-sports-related reasons.
He soon died of his wounds; upon his death Dost Muhammad came down to Yarkand and demanded Saniz Mirza's widow named Jamal Agha, whom he married upon her surrender.
Cocking spent many years developing his improved parachute, based on Cayley's design, which consisted of an inverted cone 107 feet (32.61 m) in circumference connected by three hoops.
Kipyegon Bett (1 February 1998 – 6 October 2024) was a Kenyan middle-distance runner specialising in the 800 metres.
Peranius (Georgian: პერანი, romanized: p'erani) was a Georgian prince from Iberia and a military commander in Roman (Byzantine) service.
After retiring from football, Griffiths kept active as a district cricketer and spent some time with the St Kilda Cricket Club.
On December 13, 1906, Stuart had a letter published in the Montreal Star that detailed his problems with the IPHL.
Klouček joined Orli Znojmo in the Erste Bank Eishockey Liga after previously playing in the Slovak Extraliga with HC Kosice.
Prior to the Olympics, he had won three national marathon championships in Portugal, where he represented S.L.
John (DStJ) in July 1901, and in December the same year received the decoration of the Royal Red Cross (RRC) for her services with the Imperial Yeomanry Hospital during the Boer War.
He was called into the senior team as part of the 30-man squad for the 2017 African Cup of Nations but was dropped from the 23-man squad.
He is remembered for introducing a surgical practice known as intracapsular cataract extraction, and in 1862 he introduced yellow Präcipitatsalbe (precipitate salve) as an eye ointment.
In popular culture Harry Turtledove, a historian noted for his speculative fiction based on alternative history, has written several series set in a place called Videssos, which is a thinly disguised Byzantine Empire.
His father, a farmer who had served as a private in the Australian Imperial Force during the First World War, died before Colin's birth.
To secure their releases Valdemar II had to acknowledge the break away territories in Germany, pay 44,000 silver marks, sign a promise not to seek revenge on Count Henry and send his son Erik to prison instead.
The hotel survived into the early twentieth century though was sold by the Jones family upon the premature death of the younger Cobb in the 1890s.
It was not considered controversial to compliment a pitcher with the caveat that he "warn't no Creighton." For years following his death, the Excelsiors' program included a portrait of their club with Creighton, shrouded in black, featured prominently in the center.
In April 1910 he set the official World Airspeed Record of 48.186 miles per hour (77.548 km/h) in his Antoinette VII.
Career statistics Regular season and playoffs References External links Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database
After deciding to enter the 2016 NBA Development League Draft, Upshaw was selected in the fourth round by the Grand Rapids Drive.
Early death Three months following the 1904 Olympics, Bratton died on December 3, 1904 of typhoid fever and peritonitis at Chicago's Auditorium Hotel.
He acquired a love of the country, particular horses and fox hunting, from his first wife, and became a keen follower of the Pytchley Hunt, in Northamptonshire.
Burke was a known promoter of the superpipe skiing event, working to have it added to the Olympic program.
Gray was born in Charlotteville, Ontario, Canada, and attended North Tonawanda High School in North Tonawanda, New York, from which he graduated in 1906.
On 13 July 2023, Dwamena scored his first two goals in European competitions, scoring a brace for Egnatia in a 4–4 draw with FC Ararat-Armenia in a UEFA Conference League match.
A month later, on 15 June 1918, after two years of combat, Nardini rounded out his list with a solo victory over another Albatros D.III.
On 26 June 2012, Batman was killed in a car crash at Marrakai, southeast of Darwin, Northern Territory.
The troops of the Bishop made every effort to overrun Heerenveen, but they were stopped every time and could do nothing but plunder the defenceless countrymen, until on 1 September they were forced to retreat, without having accomplished anything of importance.
Before the race, he had supposedly said: "Either I win or I die." The following weekend, a memorial service for Lázaro was attended by 23,000 people at the Olympic Stadium.
Swimmers and water polo players, and several fellow 1904 Olympic water polo medalists including Joe Ruddy, L.
Death Torrence was found dead in a swimming pool in Scottsdale, Arizona, on August 28, 2017, at the age of 31.
Vakhtang, serving to the shah as a prefect of Qazvin and having the example of his brother before him, was reluctant.
On 2 November, he was caught by the Pakistan army while planting dynamite on the Baniajuri bridge on the Dhaka-Aricha highway.
On his eight patrols in the Atlantic, the US east coast, and the Caribbean Sea, he sank 19 ships for a total of 81,961 gross register tons (GRT), and damaged three more (17,052 GRT).
Taking advantage of the absence of many soldiers of the other themes with Constans in Sicily, Saborios launched a revolt in late 667.
Sigismund of Luxembourg came to Buda and persuaded the queen mother to give her consent to his marriage to Mary.
Another hostile scout was then attacked by pilot, end-on, and received a long burst at very close range, the enemy going down in a spin, but apparently righting himself lower down.
Al-Afdal was exiled to Salkhad, while Al-Aziz was proclaimed supreme overlord of the Ayyubid Empire.
Donoso was previously married to and had two children (singer Amber Donoso and model Olivia Donoso) with UK model Lisa Butcher.
International reactions King Hussein of Jordan, the only leader of an Arab country to denounce the attack publicly, called it a "savage crime against civilization ...
In one such show in Grenaa on 30 August 1931, the parachute failed to open and she fell to her death.
Count Henry demanded that Denmark surrender the land conquered in Holstein 20 years ago and become a vassal of the Holy Roman Emperor for father and son to be released.
Vakhushti makes David the father of George, king of Kakheti, whom he differentiates from George VIII, Demetrius's younger brother, at first king of Georgia and then king of Kakheti.
While McSherry did not eject anyone directly (home plate umpire Steve Rippley did), he ordered the benches cleared and all reserve players back to their dressing rooms in the ninth inning.
The couple bought the property, located in the foothills of the Great Smoky Mountains, in December 1976 and ran it as a small country inn.
While at Georgia, he was part of the team that won the 1942 Orange Bowl, which was Georgia's first bowl appearance and first win.
Club career Born in Brazzaville, Congo, Malonga played professionally for MSP Batna in the Algerian Championnat National, before joining AS Contres of the French Division Honneur in 2010.
In 1898, Johnston enlisted in the United States Army to fight in the Spanish–American War, serving in Cuba with the 1st U.S.
Historian Shaun Fitzroy Tougher cites a history written by George the Monk that uses the Greek word pothos to describe Basil's relationship with Michael, a word which had historically been used in some Greek Christian sources to describe the desire between a wife and a husband.
The piece describes Raja’s instinct to dominate from the outset and his dazzling left-handed strokeplay, high backlift powering fierce square-cuts, cover drives, pulls and hooks, contrasting his power with a lean, wiry build.
Early career During his stay in Milan he met with many artists and being a regular visitor to their workshops he discovered his love for painting.
In July he took the silver medal at the 2009 South American Junior Championships in Athletics and then won the gold medal in the 2009 Pan American Junior Athletics Championships, throwing a new age-15 world best of 69.84m with the men's 800 gram implement.
Van Doren dropped from a height of more than 2 miles (3.2 km) landing in a garden in the town of Opglabbeek.
Already 200 enemies had been shot down, and that place would undoubtedly have been conquered, if the Bishop had not obtained a hasty release of 2000 men from Kampen and Zwolle.
Death Abderrahim Goumri died on 19 January 2013 in a car crash in Temara, Morocco, while en route to Rabat.
His personal best throw in the shot put was 20.72 metres, a French national record, achieved in May 2008 in Versailles.
They were doing what Ed liked best, skiing powder snow at Monarch Ski Area near Salida, Colorado, when he suffered a heart attack at the high altitude.
He made an attempt at the record that fall at the Silicon Valley Turkey Trot, but he finished with a time of 13:33, 9 seconds shy of the 13:24 record.
See also List of fatalities while playing cricket References External links Andy Ducat at ESPNcricinfo Not out ...
At city marathons, Syster finished fifth in the 2002 London Marathon, and won the Beijing Marathon the following year.
On 26 June 2003, Cameroon faced Colombia in the semi-final, held at the Stade de Gerland in Lyon, France.
The plane then went into a spin and crashed into the water about 150 feet (46 m) beyond the end of the runway.
He finished fifth in the 2004 Olympic Trials, falling short in his attempt to make the Olympic team for the third time.
Cocking was in a basket which hung below the parachute which in turn hung below the basket of the balloon.
The Chandela ruler Paramardi initiated negotiations with Aibak but died before a treaty could be finalized.
Representing the Central YMCA, Duffy came in second in the 1911 Ward Marathon, a 20-mile (32 km) event in Toronto.
A legal deposition from Harrod's sister claims that Harrod came to live with her following his disappearance in Kentucky.
While preparing to receive the next ball, Abdul Aziz fell to the ground and never regained consciousness, dying en route to the hospital.
Niaré competed at the 2001 World Championships, the 2006 European Championships, the 2007 World Championships, the 2008 Olympic Games and the 2009 World Championships without reaching the final.
See also List of historical horses References External links Eric Lamaze Archived 2008-08-22 at the Wayback Machine at Olympic.ca Hickstead at Torrey Pines Stable Trinity Chinner EMG
Soon Nur al-Din demanded the city be handed over to him, and Ayyub and Shirkuh negotiated its surrender in 1154.
World War I During World War I Weiler served in France as a member of the 131st Field Artillery Regiment, a unit of the 36th Infantry Division.
Career Zhang won the 2024 Dutch Junior International beating fellow Chinese player Hu Zhean 21–10, 11–21, 13–21.
Coaching career Besides playing goalkeeper he also coached the Feminine football club Entente Gévaudan.
International career Malonga made a full international debut for Congo on 14 November 2009 in a friendly against Angola, for his only international appearance.
Marriage and family On 25 May 1903 at Vienna, Elias married Archduchess Maria Anna of Austria (1882–1940), daughter of Archduke Friedrich, Duke of Teschen, and a niece of Queen Maria Cristina of Spain.
They also noted Karns's failure to disclose his equipment's inability to navigate and communicate at the same time.
They fortified the interior garrison of Mpwapwa and reopened the main caravan route through the area, using Lts.
Gülbahar Hatun, daughter of Kötürüm Bayezid Sons Süleyman Pasha had at least three sons: Ishak Bey, Rumelia's bey.
He became a member of the Lexington Police Department's narcotics squad in the early 1970s and worked on narcotics investigations with the Louisville office of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
She was also known as Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, Viola Kavanagh, and perhaps as Viola Fleet and Elsa Spencer.
Tom Compernolle (13 November 1975 – 16 June 2008) was a Belgian runner, who specialized in the 5000 metres.
Delicate Arch climb Controversy surrounded Potter after his 2006 climb of Delicate Arch in Arches National Park, for which he lost his sponsorship from the Patagonia clothing company.
Dedge was reported to have passed out during a training session leading up to the bout and it is now widely believed (though never officially confirmed) that Dedge had a preexisting medical condition.
The event featured a grand total of 24 racing events, including 12 motorcycle and motorcar events each.
Destin Chancel Onka Malonga (16 March 1988 – 31 July 2016) was a Congolese professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper.
On 16 May 2021, Kasheer, a horse ridden by Pakistani Olympic hopeful Usman Khan, died at an Olympic eventing qualifier in South Australia.
Once in Aden, Burton was not granted a medical certificate to travel and thus Speke left on HMS Furious and arrived in England on 8 May 1859.
From 1967 to 1982, LaChapelle was professor of atmospheric sciences and geophysics at the University of Washington, and then professor emeritus following his retirement until his death.
Prince Friso was a co-founder of the MRI Centre in Amsterdam and was also a founding shareholder of Wizzair, the largest low-cost airline in Eastern Europe.
She died on the 14th, and an inquest was held on the 16th; her death certificate states the cause of her death as "Internal injuries, broken pelvis and arm, caused by a fall from a parachute.
He became the first European prince to patronize the Templars, giving them an annual income of 30 pounds in the money of Anjou.
Elias was to have half of the estate in order to support his rank as head of the family; this half included the château de Chambord.
The three surviving Black September gunmen had been arrested and were being held in a Munich prison for trial.
From 1964 to 1968 he studied at the Brera Academy in Milan with the well known professors Francesco Messina, Marino Marini and Alik Cavaliere.
Parachute design Robert Cocking was a professional watercolour artist with a keen amateur interest in science.
In 2000, Westenholz, a former director of Grindlay Brandts, was a member of the Jupiter International board of directors.
Largely due to an effective guerrilla campaign by troops from Friesland under Hans Willem van Aylva against their supply lines.
Cobb suffered great financial loss during the war including the destruction and theft of property as well as the death of at least one child.
At trial, the jury failed to reach a verdict on Joe Stoddart and the prosecution decided against a retrial.
Maxwell Henry Smith (21 December 1915 – 27 October 1941) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Essendon in the Victorian Football League (VFL).
In January 1998, at age 71, Walker was paralyzed from the neck down in a skiing accident at Steamboat Springs.
In late June, Dr Elena Duta was charged with manslaughter on reports that she did not attempt to resuscitate Ekeng in the ambulance.
Neville Sellwood, Australian Racing Hall of Fame jockey killed in 1962 at Maisons-Laffitte Racecourse, France.
Early life Slack's family migrated from the Windward Islands to High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire, England, when he was 11 years old.
Friedrich Alexander Hermann Pagenstecher (21 April 1828 – 31 December 1879) was a German ophthalmologist born in Wallau.
they bought and installed the bolts) but who was unsuccessful in redpointing it, and it is now considered to be "open" to any climber to try; sometimes the original bolter will leave colored tape on the first bolt(s) to note the route is "not open".
It was the first shoe to introduce the "P" logo which has since been used on all of the company's shoes.
fixed rope, base camps, etc.) in helping the lead climbers reach the eventual summit; opposite of alpine style.
Some big wall climbers such as those climbing Yosemite's Half Dome or El Capitan have "invented" novel ways to extend its use and compromise its safety.
In popular culture In the 2015 film Kingsman: The Secret Service, one of the villains, Gazelle, is seen wearing a pair of bladed Flex-Foot Cheetah.
For example, large rocks above the soil surface do not normally appear on topographic maps but can be important features on many orienteering maps.
A 2019 Yale study showed that there were 306 chemicals in crumb rubber and that 52 of these chemicals were classified as carcinogens by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Due to the large forces exerted on the rock when an SLCD is fallen on, it is very important that SLCDs are only placed in solid, strong rock.
After Sibley's death, his relatives attempted unsuccessfully to collect the royalties from the War Department.
An alpine route where protection is from permanent steel fixed ropes or chains, with progression aided by artificial steel steps or ladders; commonly found in the Dolomites.
When belaying a seconder from the top of a climb, the Reverso is attached by a carabiner through the "extra loop" that an ATC does not have, to the anchors in the place of an italian hitch knot.
Tousse Running Apparel is an American supplier of custom uniforms for track and field, which produces track suits, speedsuits, shorts and shirts for teams.
In rock climbing, a nut (or chock or chockstone or wire for the smallest versions) is a metal wedge threaded on a wire that climbers use for protection by wedging it into a crack in the rock.
The first team to score the requisite number of points as determined by the competitive format, wins the game.
A new location for its headquarters was not immediately selected, and the possibility of the company's sale was being considered.
To carry the swag is to be the bearer of the stolen goods to a place of safety." James Hardy Vaux, a convict in Australia, used the term for similar purposes in his memoirs written in 1812 and published in 1819.
On the same surface, a dance shoe with a leather or suede sole will give much less traction than a gym shoe with a composite rubber sole.
Soloflex refers to both the Soloflex exercise machine and to Soloflex, Inc., the company that created and produces it.
The Automatic Scorer digital computer was mathematically accurate, however the detection system at the pinsetter mechanism sometimes reported the wrong number of pins knocked down.
These casual bowlers unfamiliar with the formula thought the scores given by the computers were confusing.
Ortuseight is an Indonesian sport manufacturing company based in the Tangerang, Indonesia and it was established in 2018 which produces sports shoes and jerseys.
Keep is installed by default on devices in Apple Stores in China and was on Apple's "2015 Best of App Store list".
A line marker is a device or machine with which lines or markings are drawn on a sports field or pitch.
They are often preferred by alpine mountaineers over spring-loaded camming devices because of their lack of moving parts and overall lower weight for the same size crack.
The use of whitewashed or chalked lines was developed by William Wing, a Cincinnati Red Stockings groundskeeper.
Some communes have decided to fund this maintenance by charging an admission fee, but this applies to very few vias and most remain free of charge.
Issues of plumbing connections, fuel toxicity, leakage, spillage, and stove flareup are also nonexistent when using a solid-fuel portable stove.
The kit also had a wire handle which many soldiers used to hang the mess kit from their web equipment or backpack.
While it seemed to be as much effort to "kick" as a regular scooter, the novelty of it caught on and it became popular nevertheless.
Trymax is a Bulgarian manufacturer of sports accessories, with its primary hub for business operations in Sofia, Bulgaria.
In rock climbing, a copperhead is a small nut with a head made of soft metal on a loop of wire, originally copper or brass, later aluminium.
Leavittation A technique used to climb off-width cracks pioneered in the late 1970s by Randy Leavitt and Tony Yaniro that uses alternating hand-fist stacks and leg-calf locks; helpful for resting, and when placing protection.
Around 1862, Richard Lindon was desperate to find a replacement for the pig’s bladder and used an India rubber bladder, instead.
Containers effective against the American black bears in the Sierra Nevada may not be effective against the grizzly bears found elsewhere.
Flexible Flyer is a toy and recreational equipment brand, best known for the sled of the same name, a steerable wooden sled with steel runners.
For Yin Yoga The teacher of Yin Yoga Bernie Clark wrote that many yoga students see props as "cheating", perhaps feeling that since they are used in restorative yoga sessions, they are not suitable for other students.
The White Room - Product Innovation The White Room was first introduced to the 4FRNT community in 2010.
Comedian and TV personality Stephen Colbert used his show The Colbert Report to encourage his viewers to write in votes to use "Colbert" during the contest.
Due to the nature of the game, the fabric is generally strong, and traditionally rugby shirts have rubber buttons so that they would, if pulled on in a game, come undone rather than pop off.
z-pulley A system of rope, anchors, and pulleys; is typically used to extricate a climber after falling into a crevasse.
Later fuselages made of fabric-covered steel tubes were married to wood and fabric wings for lightness and strength.
For gymnastics, the ball originally began as a small ball around the size of a tennis ball and grew in size to make it easier for the audience to see and for the gymnast to roll along the body.
Sporting competitions In principle, the correction of ametropia is permitted with all suitable means.
Popularity The driving force in the company's growth and popularity has been in the skating scene, where its shoes has become popular among skaters for its durability.
Matthews, no longer features the product on their website, but notes that the company initially worked on "energy-generating play products" before shifting to other areas.
A shamiana (Bengali: শামিয়ানা, Urdu: شامیانہ) is a South Asian ceremonial tent, shelter or awning, commonly used for outdoor parties, weddings, feasts etc.
The vinyl tarp is ideal for agriculture, construction, industrial, trucks, flood barrier and temporary roof repair.
In 1957, Harrod Sport produced its first pair of football nets following a request from a local school teacher.
The German company Edelrid introduced the first kernmantel rope in 1953, which revolutionized fall prevention.
Athleta (and Umbro itself) were both manufacturers of Brazil jerseys for the 1958, 1962, and 1970 FIFA World Cups.
By 1992, 1.5 million had been sold at $19.95 directly from TV advertising, and 2 million more had been sold in stores, This was described by Jay Conrad Levinson and Seth Godin as "a classic example of the way that informercials can drive the retail market".
A notable exception was the tennis player Jane Régny (the pseudonym of Madame Balouzet Tillard de Tigny), who opened a couture house specialising in clothing for sport and travel.
Products Self-inflating mattress A Therm-a-Rest self-inflating mattress consists of an airtight nylon fabric envelope filled with a sheet of low density, open-cell polyurethane foam.
Equipment for the cyclist Basic equipment The basic equipment set out in the UCI technical regulation guide (Section 3: riders’ clothing) includes a jersey with sleeves, a pair of shorts and possibly a skinsuit.
Water shoe－The most common type and can be worn casually in and out of water because it functions as a normal shoe.
In 2007, Beermaker Rolling Rock aired a commercial poking fun of male thong wearers during Super Bowl XLI.
Solid-fuel stoves are also commonly used in emergency kits, both because they are compact and the fuel is very stable over time.
Edelson produced several prototypes that were used in a home and work office since the early 1990s with utilizing treadmills, stationary bicycles, and standing uptight to work.
The third method is to put a carpet or mat with woven or tufted fibres on the surface, then to brush in sand or sand mixes to keep the fibres in an upright position and finally to seed grass mixtures on top.
Most players affected choose to wear contact lenses, although Dutch player Edgar Davids, unable to wear contact lenses due to glaucoma, was known for his distinctive wraparound goggles.
In the Netherlands, the British forces were working in flooded conditions which demanded Wellingtons and thigh boots in vast supplies.
Type A ropes are intended for general use due to their superior strength; whereas type B ropes are intended for use in specialised circumstances where their usually thinner diameter and lower weight are critical for an operation.
Yoga as therapy is the use of asanas as a gentle form of exercise and relaxation, applied specifically with the intention of improving health.
Hockey jerseys started to become more popular as a fashion choice with the general public starting with the expansion of teams like the San Jose Sharks and Mighty Ducks of Anaheim to southern California.
Aiders (or the French etriers) are short 5–6 rung ladders made of lightweight webbing and are a central part of the technique of aid climbing.
The most common method is to use one bivouac sheet as the roof of the shelter and a second as the groundsheet.
History In the early 1800s, the term swag was used by British thieves to describe any amount of stolen goods.
In November 2020 ESPN2 broadcast a tape-delayed package covering the final round of the 2020 Tour Championship produced by Jomez Productions.
She said that despite spending a substantial amount of time on looking at exercises, she remained uncertain about which exercise to do.
Blue Valley High School, Stilwell, used by Blue Valley High school and Blue Valley West High School.
These jerseys are usually made from lightweight synthetic microfiber materials that wick moisture from the skin to aid evaporation, keeping the rider cool and dry.
It was reported that German team TSG 1899 Hoffenheim achieved its highest finish in the Bundesliga for five years - ninth place - after using the contraption.
Carrying sharp objects which could be used as weapons on one's person was banned in Finland in 1977.
Membership started with 25 members in 1974 with Harry Yalocki as the first Executive Director and Tom Burton as the first President.
Multi-pitch climbing, which can be done in sport or traditional formats, requires added rope devices like ascenders and descenders for moving up and down fixed-ropes.
Because it did not use a wick and did not produce soot, the Primus stove was advertised as the first "sootless" and "wickless" stove.
2009 – MTV presenter, Natasha Gilbert, stars in the first ever Life Style Sports Woman's Fitness Campaign "Your Life, Your Style, Your World”.
As of 2008 there are only four teams who do not have at least one player wearing the helmet: Boston Red Sox, Cleveland Indians, New York Yankees, and Washington Nationals.
Construction and materials The feel of a blade is influenced by the number of plies (layers) and the specific wood species used: 5-Ply Wood: Typically thinner and more flexible, providing greater dwell time and feedback, which is advantageous for generating spin.
The company started out as Bucksteel Mfg in Roswell, New Mexico, in a small plant on the old Army Air Force base south of town.
The athlete and wheelchair are viewed together by some sport researchers as a unified performance system.
Through points earned by finishing at DGPT tournaments, competitors can earn berths in the final season event, the Tour Championship.
The Footbanaut, which costs $3.5 million is as large as an apartment with a cube shape and is capable of firing balls from a range of 360 degrees at different speeds and trajectories toward the training players.
Copperheads are most often placed into small shallow seams and crevices by pounding or hammering them in to place, with a climbing hammer, sometimes with the aid of metal rod, chisel, or punch.
Reducing swing can be accomplished by minimizing the inner angle between individual anchors, and by increasing the number of individual anchors.
alpine style Carrying all your own gear (even for multi-day climbs); also called "light-weight" climbing; opposite of expedition style.
One of the most famous performers of the 20th century, Claude Alexander, was often billed as "Alexander the Crystal Seer".
Traditionally, a tent peg is improvised from a section of a small tree branch, if possible with a small side branch cut off to leave a hook, driven into the ground narrower end first.
Beginning with the 2014 season, all three governing bodies for lacrosse in the United States (US Lacrosse, NFHS, NCAA) have mandated that only balls meeting the NOCSAE ball standard may be used for competition.
McCardell once proclaimed: "I belong to a mass production country where any of us, all of us, deserve the right to good fashion." Martin credits the 1930s and 40s sportswear designers with freeing American fashion from the need to copy Paris couture.
Since this activity requires craning one's neck to look up at the climber, a common malady named "belayer's neck" can occur.
Both the Finnish Defence Forces and the Swedish Armed Forces issue rubber boots to all soldiers for use in wet conditions and during the winter with felt liners.
In artistic gymnastics, gymnasts will sometimes wear wrist guards to absorb the impact on the skills they perform.
Sun Mountain Sports, often referred to simply as Sun Mountain, is an American manufacturer of golf equipment based in Missoula, Montana.
The company was initially named Cascade Designs, which is now the parent company of Therm-a-Rest and other outdoor brands.
Therm-a-Rest is a Seattle, Washington-based outdoor product company specializing in camping mattresses, sleeping bags, camp chairs, cots, and pillows.
There are also auto-belay devices on the market which allow a climber to climb solo in their climbing gym.
As he desired to exude a certain "WASPishness" in his clothes, initially adopting the style of clothiers like Brooks Brothers, J.
Since 2006 there have been two separate companies creating Feiyue shoes: Da Fu Rubber and its subsidiary manufacturer, Double Coin Holdings, and a French company operating separately from the original Chinese company.
The service was founded in 2009 by Mark Gainey and Michael Horvath, along with co-founders Davis Kitchel, Chris Donahue, Mark Shaw, and Pelle Sommansson, and is based in San Francisco, California.
Drive and transmissions The simplest drive mechanism of stand-up scooters is the electric direct drive, where the motor directly drives the rear wheel.
It is now available for iPhone and Android devices and allows its user to track and analyze their performance and to share workout data and photos with its friends.
Ruder accepted, but the deal fell apart before the episode aired due to differences in strategy for the direction of the company.
History Predecessors Patent by Arthur Aubriot Pons The original device was patented in 1912 by Arthur A.
Heavier weighted clothing can also be used for slow, controlled movements, and as a way to add resistance to body-weight exercises.
Using a Grigri to bring up a second on a traditional anchor is however less favorable than other belay devices because the Grigri gives a more static catch with little to no rope slippage.
Media reaction The SOCCKET scored on the "Highbrow" and "Brilliant" quadrant of New York's "Approval Matrix" for the week of February 8, 2010.
Assistive technology is the array of new devices created to enable sports enthusiasts who have disabilities to play.
The construction of the lure is similar to how they were originally built, with the exception that the core is made from balsa wood instead of cork, and the outer coating is now paint and lacquer.
See also Crystal skull Magic Mirror (Snow White) Palantír Salvator Mundi (Leonardo), da Vinci's "Savior of the World" painting depicting Christ holding a crystal ball Seer stone (Latter Day Saints) Yard globe References Further reading Lang, Andrew (1900).
The frame design underwent a number of evolutions and eventually became the Mogema Diamond Series frame that for years was the most-prevalent inline speedskating frame in the world.
A study done on consumer practices suggests that users will either repair or purchase new objects when faced with worn materials that affect service.
In 2013, Life Style Sports became the official retail partner of Leinster Rugby, with a Life Style Sports shop located in Donnybrook Stadium and the Royal Dublin Society (RDS), home of Leinster Rugby.
In addition to this exercise, much like the trap bar can be used for deadlifts, a dip bar has other potential uses.
Martin Stadium at Washington State University in Pullman switched to Omniturf in 1990, and used it for a decade; like Autzen Stadium, it now uses FieldTurf.
Unlike quick releases, thru-axles are also available in many different lengths, which must be selected according to the frame and derailleur hanger of the bicycle.
Types Variations of climbing bolts include: Ring bolt has a loop on one end so it presents as a U-shape embedded in the wall.
It is another object of the invention to provide an exerciser which gives a greater amount of contraction for the same initial length of telescopic system.
Portable stoves in modern times can be divided into several broad categories based on the type of fuel used and the design of the aluminium stoving frame.
In cases of homogeneous terrain with few distinct features, a bearing between 2 known points on the map may be used.
This initiative aims to identify and nurture young female handball talent across India, providing a structured pathway for emerging athletes.
In 1988 TST was incorporated by David Lippes and soon after started producing rigid manual wheelchair frames from titanium.
In fall 2017, the company said it had sold its one-millionth net and was generating $15 million in sales per year.
Hockey jerseys are often more complicated than football or baseball jerseys, due the front crest being a major feature rather than player numbers.
World Tour In 1888–1889, Spalding took a group of major league players around the world to promote baseball and Spalding sporting goods.
Sustainability In 2020, Rapala VMC Corporation launched its new sustainability strategy, with the aim of being one of the world's leading fishing tackle companies in terms of sustainability by 2024.
These shoulder pads were sewn into the players' jerseys rather than being worn as a separate piece of equipment.
In a 2022 interview with Climbing, Sherman credited El Paso-based boulder climbers, Donny Hardin and Fred Nakovic, for the original idea "after a heel-bruising session not at Hueco, but City of Rocks, New Mexico".
It was used in the team portable apparatus competitions for women at both the 1952 and 1956 Olympics before the event was discontinued.
Aircraft To commemorate the company's 30th anniversary, the company began manufacturing gliders in 1936.
According to these results, Sports Tracker ranked 2nd-4th in distance accuracy, and 9th in elevation difference.
After that, flywheel resistance training was studied in space travelers exposed to microgravity environments to fight the effects of sarcopenia and bone mineral density loss, started at Karolinska Institute in the 1990s funded by NASA and ESA.
Playing across the western U.S., the tour made stops in Hawaii (although no game was played), New Zealand, Australia, Ceylon, Egypt, Italy, France, and England.
Any splices narrow enough to maintain smooth running would be less able to support the required weight.
A simple nylon guide is used to ensure both discs activate simultaneously to jam the discs between each drum ramp and the frame's lock ring.
A scrimmage vest, sometimes referred to as a pinny (NAE) or bib (BrE), is a piece of clothing or sportswear, often made of mesh, used in practices as a substitute for a sports team's usual uniform or to differentiate temporary teams in informal scrimmages.
The rope diameter and elasticity is critical for operation, as higher than normal fall forces can be generated due to the rapid locking rate, in the order of 13 kN at runners and anchor points.
Disabled Sports USA - The national organization that provides over 40 different adaptive sports to over 60,000 people with disabilities in the US through a network of over 100 community-based chapters.
Mountain bikers often prefer to point the lever backwards, to reduce the risk of it catching on undergrowth and being pulled open.
Some Robert Mole blades survive as souvenirs of travellers to Trinidad, Jamaica, and, less commonly, St.
Lowe's innovation also featured the first side compression straps, the first modern sternum strap, and the first load stabilizers.
Climbing routes that are bolted are known as sport climbs, and those that do not use (or allow) bolts, are known as traditional climbs.
Dip bars that are high enough can also be used via having the hands below the bar instead of on top of them, using the finger flexors to hang on.
Rugby football Until 1870, rugby was played with a near spherical ball with an inner-tube made of a pig's bladder.
Many players of other disc sports will often use a throw-and-catch (no plastic nails or sprays) version of freestyle to warm up for their disc games.
SIBBG conducts visual inspection and various structural tests, then containers are filled with food and left in the cages of captive black bears in a zoo in California.
SERENE Acronym for building anchors; stands for Strong, Equalised, Redundant, Efficient, No Extension.
In 2021, the company acquired Callaghan Country Wilderness Adventures in Whistler, and with it a backcountry lodge called the Journeyman Lodge.
the body belay for belaying, the dülfersitz abseil for descending, and the prusik knot for ascending), and these mechanical devices help with both control and safety in all conditions (e.g.
Mechanically the StairMaster 6000 was virtually identical to its predecessor, but the 6000 displayed workout information on a digital screen.
Runners are used by rock and ice climbers to extend the distance between an anchoring device and the rope.
Other names for the object include crystal sphere, orbuculum, scrying ball, shew/show(ing) stone, and more variants by dialect.
In 1982 Boreal, the Spanish company located in Villena, produced the "Firé" style of shoe with a revolutionary sticky rubber sole.
The exact heights at which these apply depend on the heights of the campers involved; those over 182 cm (5.97 ft) are likely to have less choice of tents than those who are somewhat shorter.
The 32-panel configuration is the spherical polyhedron corresponding to the truncated icosahedron; it is spherical because the faces bulge from the pressure of the air inside.
As the soldier passed along the mess line, food service personnel would dole out hot items first, often meat followed by vegetables, potatoes, and other side dishes, ostensibly separated by the tray dividers.
Uses The volume of the reservoir and the pack carrying it can vary widely depending on the purpose of the hydration pack.
United States For American football, Omniturf was installed several college football stadiums in the United States.
A modern example of this departure was evident during the 2012 Olympics when the USA men's volleyball team opted for the more athletic-friendly thigh length.
The common characteristic is a single wall, in most cases, waterproof." See also Poncho tent Bivouac Basha Hammock Camping == Notes ==
Additionally, common personal items such as toothbrushes, razor and toilet paper may also be stored in a chuck box.
there are both ice and bare rock sections), a separate M-grading grading system is used, which goes from M1, M2, M3, .....
Mountaineers sometimes build tent platforms in their base camps from materials such as pebble or snow.
Their original colours of light blue and white were chosen to reflect an association with Cambridge University, where a number of the club's founders had been educated.
Most puukkos have a slight shoulder but no ricasso (an unsharpened section nearest the handle), because the point where the blade ends and the handle begins, is also the point where most power can be applied.
References External links When Great Britain won the World Cup Tracking down the heroes of 1972 Warrington's World Cup heroes – Jim Challinor Coaching Profile at saints.org.uk HALL OF HEROES: Warrington Wolves' Jim Challinor, World Cup winning pläyer and coäch
Saddle seat riders, whose riding clothing styles were derived from men's business suits, wear Kentucky Jodhpurs in dark colors, usually black, navy blue, or a shade that matches the riding coat.
The NICE guidelines in the UK state that healthcare professionals should not offer rocker-bottom shoes as a treatment for people with lower back pain or sciatica.
Snowboarders such as Craig Kelly adapted plastic "tongues" to their boots to provide the same support for toe-side turns that the highback provided for heel-side turns.
The lusikkahaarukka are hard wearing, so much so that new conscripts are still issued with units manufactured during World War II.
Common items found in household and travel first aid boxes include adhesive bandages, sterile gauze pads, adhesive tape, antiseptic solutions, cotton wool, scissors, tweezers, disposable gloves, and wound dressings.
This issue was fixed in the 1990s when synthetic fibers were added, making the shoulder pads more breathable.
The company entered the sporting goods market in 1910, when it began to manufacture rubber golf balls at its base in Birmingham.
It is one of the five apparatuses utilized in this discipline, alongside the clubs, hoop, ribbon, and rope.
Kick scooter In 1974, the Honda company made the Kick 'n Go, a scooter driven by a pedal on a lever.
An agreement was reached soon after for Mogema metalworking to produce quantities of the frame for sale by the Stouwdam skate shop in nearby Oldebroek.
Subsequently, the design changed from copper/brass to spun aluminium; there is no record of when this change occurred.
See also Amateur wrestling Collegiate wrestling Freestyle wrestling Greco-Roman wrestling Leotard Wrestling shoes Wrestling headgear == References ==
Nuts may be generically referred to as wires or stoppers, though "Stopper" is a brand name of a nut made by Black Diamond Equipment.
Nylon was discovered in the late 1930s and was first introduced into fiber ropes during World War II.
1 stove, made of brass, consists of a fuel tank at the base, above which is a "rising tube" and the burner assembly.
The two most common materials are a mix between cotton and polyester (many of these shirts are meant for supporter use, though they can be used in a rugby game), and pure polyester (these shirts are generally designed specifically for game use by players).
Guidelines for health exercise can also be the purpose of training which can be pursued and monitored by loading a training program to a Smart Card and accomplish exercises guided by machines themselves.
Following on from their previous success in 2017 Nidecker acquired the binding and boot manufacturer Flow.
The Xiaomi Mi Smart Band 4 (Xiaomi Mi Band 4 in China) is a wearable activity tracker produced by Xiaomi Inc released in China on 16 June 2019, in Europe on 26 June 2019 and in India on 19 September 2019.
In 1989, the StairMaster 4000 was the company's most popular model, which Aron Kahn of the Ottawa Citizen attributed to its affordability and implementation of positive reinforcement through an on-screen display of goals and congratulatory messages.
A scrum machine, or scrummaging machine, is a padded, weighty device against which a pack of rugby forwards can practice scrummaging and rucking.
Mizuno Corporation (ミズノ株式会社, legally 美津濃株式会社, Mizuno Kabushiki-gaisha) (TYO: 8022) is a Japanese sports equipment and sportswear company, founded in Osaka in 1906 by Rihachi Mizuno.
The Razor was introduced to Japan in 1999, with many early adopters being young Japanese who used it for portable transport.
As China was experiencing economic deceleration, Keep in October 2019 laid off 15% of its workforce after having increased it by fourfold in 2018.
(Chuck and grub are both "cowboy" terms for food.) A chuck box, grub box, camp box and patrol box (scouting version) are all the same thing.
A physical therapist interviewed by Men's Health suggested that the device would not protect the back, but would reduce effort and so lower the effectiveness of exercise.
In the Tour de France, jerseys are awarded to the leaders of specific classifications after each stage: Yellow jersey for general classification, Green jersey for points classification, Polka dot jersey for mountains classification, and White jersey for best young rider.
Damping layers, shock pads, and anchoring techniques determine this flooring's level of performance.
In 2014, Giant introduced the D-Fuse seat post, it features cylindrical front side and flatten rear side, according to Giant, is designed to absorb shocks and vibrations to give flatter experience for cycling, and increase maneuverability on complex grounds.
Note that the necessity to serve multiple purposes can often be eased by the use of a gym floor cover to protect the floor.
They are designed to be lightweight and flexible, providing traction and ankle support on wrestling mats.
Wilson, former president of meatpacker Morris & Company, was appointed president by the controlling banks and renamed the company "Thomas E.
In such cases, the wearer maintains solid and stable footing while standing, but the rock of the heel assists with the propulsive phase of gait, making walking more natural and less painful to the affected joints.
The actual capacity in number of days of hiking food stored varies with the appetite of the hiker, the selection of food, and the skill in which it is packed, but a 700 in3 canister likely holds up to a week's worth of food for the average hiker.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Federación Mexicana de Levantamiento de Pesas (FMLP).
Men Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by Cycling South Africa Not ratified or later rescinded by the Cycling South Africa Women References General South African records July 2023 Specific External links Cycling South Africa web site
Least attended game in history The record was set on September 28, 1882, in game between the Troy Trojans and the Worcesters in Worcester, Massachusetts, which some reports had only six spectators attend.
He met immediate success while standing at Lasater Farm in Ocala, and by 1981 his progeny made him that year's Leading sire in North America.
Timeline of the "number one" ranking The first official ranking list, the Sony Ranking, was published prior to the Masters in April 1986, with Bernhard Langer the first world No.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Kosovo Weightlifting Federation.
Of these skaters, only one (Mao Shimada) has accomplished the feat more than once, winning all four major competitions for 4 consecutive seasons between the 2022-23 and 2025-26 seasons.
In autumn at Belmont he was moved up in class to finish fourth in both the Lawrence Realization Stakes and the Man o' War Stakes.
The wave height was estimated by the Mavericks Rescue Team, but has not yet been confirmed by Guinness World Records.
Drumtop (1966–1983) was an American Thoroughbred horse racing mare purchased as a yearling for $47,000 who won close to half a million dollars in racing against both females and males.
At the 2018 World Championships, judokas from North Korea and South Korea competed as a unified Korean team and won bronze medals in the mixed team competition.
The objective is not to create combined medal tables; the focus is on listing the best positions achieved by teams in major international tournaments, ranking the nations according to the most podiums accomplished by teams of these nations.
MLS Cup championship The list only includes clubs that failed to win an MLS Cup championship for ten or more consecutive seasons.
The following are the national records in athletics in Ivory Coast maintained by its national athletics federation, the Fédération Ivoirienne d'Athlétisme (FIA).
After finishing as runners up at the 2019 Netball Quad Series and defeating both Australia and New Zealand, England returned to the number two position.
In recent years, Genius Sports has focused on enhancing its offerings through acquisitions and technological innovations, particularly in the realm of sports betting and real-time data solutions.
{\displaystyle {\frac {p_{A,B}}{1-p_{A,B}}}={\frac {p_{A}}{1-p_{A}}}\times {\frac {1-p_{B}}{p_{B}}}.} One can then solve p A , B = p A − p A × p B p A + p B − 2 × p A × p B .
Most rated players As of November 2018, Germany has the highest number of active FIDE-rated players with 11,813.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international rugby union, rugby sevens, rugby league and wheelchair rugby tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
On July 12 he was matched against the five-year-old gelding John Henry in the Sword Dancer Invitational Handicap at Belmont.
McHenry urged Dan Patch hard down the homestretch and he responded with a final quarter mile in under 30 seconds to set the record.
On September 7 at the half-mile track in Lima, Ohio, Dan Patch paced a world record of 2:04, only to have the record broken by Prince Alert a few weeks later.
Three skaters are also tied for winning the most bronze medals (also with four each): Carolina Kostner of Italy, Anna Kondrashova of the Soviet Union, and Viktoria Volchkova of Russia.
In the following year he showed much-improved form, winning seven races including the Fort Marcy Handicap, Edgemere Handicap, Bowling Green Handicap and Tidal Handicap as well as finishing second in the Washington D C International.
To the extent that they exist, losing streaks may arise from the loser effect: an increased probability of losing at time T, based on losing at time T−1, T−2, etc.
However, of the men to attempt the record since the rule change, only five were on a UCI World Tour team at the time: Jens Voigt of Trek Factory Racing, Rohan Dennis of the BMC Racing Team, Alex Dowsett of the Movistar Team, Victor Campenaerts of Lotto Soudal, Filippo Ganna of Ineos Grenadiers.
Only in 1903, apart from the cyclist that won the race, was there no other former or future Tour de France winner.
Curling and wheelchair curling *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
3-3-3 Legacy World Record Progression Female 3-6-3 Legacy World Record Progression Female Cycle Legacy World Record Progression Female Doubles Legacy World Record Progression 3-6-3 Relay Legacy World Record Progression == References ==
There is also a maximum of 52 tournaments, which means that only the player's 52 most recent tournaments (within the two-year period) are used.
The mark of 43.133 km was achieved on 1 October at the National Cycling Centre in Manchester, Great Britain.
Ice hockey Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The Masters series along with the Grand Slam tournaments, the ATP Finals championship and the Olympic Games are considered the top-tier events of men's tennis, referred to by the ATP as the "Big Titles".
Basketball, 3x3 basketball and wheelchair basketball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The following are the national records in speed skating in Brazil maintained by the Brazilian Ice Sports Federation (CBGD).
Previous events were held in London (2004, 2011), Sydney (2005), Mumbai (2006), Johannesburg (2007, 2009), Dubai (2008) and Bangalore (2010).
^BC was in the West Division for all 20 years, but qualified for the Crossover to the East Division Playoffs in 1997, 2003, 2009, and 2014.
His 1956 performances earned Canadian Champ Canadian Horse of the Year honours, and he retired as the richest Thoroughbred in Canadian racing history.
Using their experience, knowledge and appreciation of the game, they selected the ICC World XI Teams and provided a long list of nominations to the 32 members of the voting academy to cast their votes in the individual player award categories.
Most aces in WTA 1000s in a season Elena Rybakina has served the most aces in WTA 1000 events in a season with 235 in 2023, the most since 2009.
Under jockey Rafael Manuel Hernandez, Pink Lloyd settled behind the early leader Conquest Enforcer, who completed the first quarter mile in 21.96 seconds.
Medals earned by athletes from defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are NOT merged with the results achieved by their immediate successor states.
This is a list of achievements in major international table tennis events according to gold, silver and bronze medal results obtained by athletes representing different nations.
The fixed-roof Ford Field in Detroit hosted one doubleheader and a single game, and another was held at the retractable-roof Veltins-Arena in Gelsenkirchen, Germany (with the roof closed for that game); all other games on the list were held in open-air venues.
Frusquin was also a leading sire in Great Britain and Ireland in 1903 and the Leading broodmare sire in Great Britain & Ireland in 1924.
Records can be set at intermediate distances in an individual race and for the first leg of a relay race.
Background Nodouble was a chestnut stallion, bred in Arkansas by oilman Gene Goff’s Verna Lea Farms.
The outcome of a match does not solely depend on the strength of the opponents, but also on how much effort one or the other is willing to invest.
After retirement to stud, he became the leading sire in North America of 1981 and was also a notable broodmare sire.
Not counting this, the lowest recorded attendance was at the 1953 edition in Switzerland, with 53,000 total spectators.
All disciplines Chronological To date, sixteen single skaters and twenty-three couples have completed the Junior Grand Slam.
Points per match Teams earn points for each match, with the specific amount determined based on the outcome of the match (win or loss) and the rating of their opponents.
The world's most valuable sports teams, as ranked annually by the American magazine Forbes, includes teams from the National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), Major League Baseball (MLB), and several European association football leagues.
[3] Breeding record When her racing career ended, Drumtop was a broodmare at Rokeby Farm in Upperville, Virginia She produced nine foals that raced of which three were stakes race winners.
For the 2018 NHL Global Series, the Florida Panthers and Winnipeg Jets played two games at Hartwall Arena in Helsinki, Finland on November 1 and 2, 2018, with both teams splitting the hosting duties as the home team.
Through the end of the 2025 NBA play-in tournament, the Miami Heat and Atlanta Hawks are tied for the most play-in tournament games played, with six each.
Racing at ages four and five, Nodouble was named American Champion Older Male Horse by the Thoroughbred Racing Association in both years.
Qualifiers in final Age statistics All countrymen in final Titles won by decade as of 2026 Monte Carlo.
When Pink Lloyd first started training, he would chase any horse who was working out at the same time, leaving him tired and sore.
The "Different holders" column gives the number of cyclists of the country that wore the yellow jersey.
Starting pitcher Daisuke Yamai pitched eight perfect innings and received the win, with Hitoki Iwase pitching a perfect ninth inning and receiving the save; the Dragons' victory also resulted in them winning the Japan Series.
For the creation of the list only results from adult competitions were consulted; therefore, results achieved at the Youth Olympic Games and at the World Junior Championships were not considered.
Within each of the belts, students have the opportunity to earn up to generally 4 stripes on their belt, indicating progress within that belt.
For comparison, the fastest known 400m lap was skated by Jenning de Boo on 25 January 2025 in Calgary during a 1000-meter, with a lap time of 23.92 seconds and an average speed of 60.20 km/h (37.41 mph).
Preseason seedings disappear over the course of the season, and are completely absent from consideration by the time the season ends.
A study of streaks in Major League Baseball and National Basketball Association concluded that the actual results were similar enough to predictions with no momentum effect, that the effect was of limited importance.
There are 4 other countries who have hosted the championships at least once, and are represented on the top 30.
According to this list, 6 events are from WWC's annual Aniversario supercard, which in the late-1980s had been held exclusively at the Juan Ramón Loubriel Stadium which typically has a seating capacity of at least 22,000 people or more.
Since MLB implementation of the softball variant of the WBSC tie-breaker in 2020, the offensive team is awarded a free runner on second base each half-inning during extra innings.
Example In the standings below from the 1994 Major League Baseball season, the Atlanta Braves are six games behind the Montreal Expos.
In 2001, Glenn McGrath invented the tradition of a bowler raising the ball to the crowd at the completion of a five-wicket haul.
In May 2018, after winning gold at the 2018 Commonwealth Games, they initially remained at number three.
Some stadiums are only used by a team for certain high attendance matches, like local derbies or cup games.
FIG also considers the defunct Four Continents Championships as an official competition, but since the tournament excluded nations from Europe, results have not been included.
The Goldberg win streak was a lengthy series of victories that established the character of American professional wrestler Goldberg, following his debut on WCW Monday Nitro on September 22, 1997.
Although the term "personal best" is increasingly used in official sports statistics, it can also refer to an unofficial best individual performance.
Racing career Discovery was owned by Adolphe Pons of Country Life Farm in Bel Air, Maryland, who raced him at age two with limited success, winning only two of thirteen starts and being beaten in several races by future Hall of Famer Cavalcade.
Note that for continuity purposes, the Cleveland Browns are officially considered to have suspended operations for the 1996, 1997, and 1998 seasons.
Men's national teams ranking The unofficial national teams ranking is calculated by the Elo rating system.
The Streak was a series of 21 consecutive victories for professional wrestler The Undertaker (Mark Calaway) at WWE's annual flagship marquee event, WrestleMania.
In tennis, the ATP Masters is an annual series of nine top-level tennis tournaments featuring the elite men's tennis players on the ATP Tour.
An October 19, 1987 article in Sports Illustrated referred to White Skies as a "bullet" horse in the same vein as racing greats such as Tom Fool, Decathlon, Ta Wee, Dr.
The David Shepherd Trophy is awarded annually by the International Cricket Council to the ICC Umpire of the Year.
Drumtop's son Topsider, sired by Northern Dancer, set a new track record for 6½ furlongs at Saratoga Race Course.
Dan Patch was the subject of the 1949 motion picture The Great Dan Patch starring Dennis O'Keefe and Gail Russell.
As of October 2022, they have played 38 Test matches against five different opponents—Australia, England, South Africa, New Zealand and the West Indies.
All competitions Overall Longest matches by duration Only two professional competitive matches have lasted longer than seven hours and 14 matches have lasted longer than six hours.
Racing career Hidden Treasure won the 1959 Display, Carleton and Summer Stakes and ran second to Victoria Park in the two most important races for Canadian two-year-olds, the Cup and Suaucer and Coronation Futurity Stakes.
Noted basketball analyst Dean Oliver also applied James' Pythagorean theory to professional basketball.
Long Course (50 m) Men Women Mixed relay Short Course (25 m) Men Women Mixed relay Notes References General Jordanian records 5 April 2026 updated Specific External links JSF web site
Later that same season, the Montreal Alouettes moved into Olympic Stadium, following the 1976 Summer Olympics.
RankTennis recorded the same time and TNNS recorded one minute longer, but SofaScore recorded five minutes less.
The red-and-white belt is often reserved only for ceremonial occasions, and a regular black belt is still worn during training.
Outdoor Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by ÖLV Not ratified or later rescinded by FSHA Men Women Mixed Indoor Men Women Notes References General Austrian Records 7 December 2025 updated Specific External links ÖLV web site
Opta provides data for more than 30 sports in over 70 countries, with clients ranging from leagues and federations to broadcasters and betting websites.
If the winning dart is in the first or second dart thrown in a visit, only those darts are counted as thrown for that visit (the one or two darts not thrown are not counted).
The Houston Outlaws hold the distinction of having lost the most matches (5) among the teams with the lowest number of wins (1).
Alexei Urmanov of Russia won the inaugural men's event, Michelle Kwan of the United States won the women's event, Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov of Russia won the pairs event, and Oksana Grishuk and Evgeni Platov, also of Russia, won the ice dance event.
Frusquin, a multiple winner of top-level races including the 1896 British Classic and the 2,000 Guineas Stakes.
These records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts.
At age four in 1953, his wins included the Interborough and Sport Page Handicaps plus he set a new track record of 1:22 3/5 for seven furlongs in a win at the Atlantic City Race Course.
But there's always horses around him, he's an aggressive horse." Pink Lloyd completed the season with eight stakes race wins from eight starts – believed to be the longest stakes-winning streak ever at Woodbine Racetrack.
Pedigree * Tiller is inbred 4S x 4S to the stallion Firdaussi, meaning that he appears fourth generation twice on the sire side of his pedigree.
Each competition is held once every two years since 1984, except for 2020 edition which was postponed due to the pandemic.
{\displaystyle R_{\mathsf {A}}'=R_{\mathsf {A}}+K\cdot (S_{\mathsf {A}}-E_{\mathsf {A}})~.} This update can be performed after each game or each tournament, or after any suitable rating period.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2020 Grand Prix Final, scheduled to be held in Beijing, was at first postponed, and then removed from China altogether.
Men Women Historical records Men (2018–2025) Men (1998–2018) ^1 The IWF website still lists Nijat Rahimov (Kazakhstan) record of 214 kg in the clean and jerk, which was later disqualified for doping.
One ice dance team and one ice dancer have won all major junior and senior level competitions and the Olympic Team event.
Aside from the NBA Playoff appearance streaks, this list also includes the NBA Finals appearance streak and the NBA championships win streak.
Seating capacity of venues also plays a role in what media they are able to provide and how they are able to provide it.
In a space of less than two weeks in 1958, he set two track records while beating two horses ranked near the top in American racing history.
This list is a compilation of total centuries scored by international cricketers, split between different formats of the game.
The following are the national records in track cycling in the Philippines, maintained by its national cycling federation, Integrated Cycling Federation of the Philippines.
Junior Golden Slam The Junior Golden Slam is the junior-level equivalent to the Golden Slam, first coined by fans following the establishment of the Winter Youth Olympic Games in 2012.
The STATS FCS awards have been presented annually by STATS LLC since 2015 to recognise the most outstanding collegiate football players and coach in the NCAA Division I Football Championship Subdivision.
He was sired by the French stallion Herbager who won the Prix du Jockey Club and the Grand Prix de Saint-Cloud before his racing career was ended by injury.
These records were maintained by the Soviet Athletics Federation during the country's existence until its dissolution in 1991.
This also skews the list towards sports with salary caps where salaries are therefore public knowledge and easy to cite.
Higher grades In Japanese martial arts the further subdivisions of black belt ranks may be linked to dan grades and indicated by 'stripes' on the belt.
The contract figures referenced below are presented at face value and do not reflect potential pre or post-tax treatments.
It was part of the National Wrestling Alliance from 1979 to 1986 and is the last remaining North American member of the original NWA territory system.
Tiller was beaten in his last four races of 1978, but was in the money against top-class opposition on each occasion.
The tries scored in this match brought both players to six apiece, but as to which of these players reached that mark first is unclear.
Few skaters have won the gold medal in the individual event at the Olympic Games in addition to all three major competitions a second time, achieving a double Career Golden Slam.
Her record was unchallenged until 2007, when another female angler, Bev Street, broke the record for largest caught freshwater fish by landing a 66lb catfish at Bluebell Lakes in Peterborough.
Garrett McNamara - Apart from his 2011 world record, McNamara has reportedly surfed to what was dubbed by the media as a "100 foot wave" on 28 January 2013 at Praia do Norte.
For example, opponents of the 2016 New England Patriots had a combined record of 111–142–3 (a win percentage of 0.439, the SOS), and Patriots' wins came against teams with a combined record of 93–129–2 (a win percentage of 0.424, the SOV).
Strategy Apart from using hands in neutral space to shield or deflect a pass or a shot, the defender uses their body to impede the ball-carrier's advance toward the basket.
Since 2020, The Basketball Tournament has awarded one free throw plus possession for any defensive foul during the Elam Ending that would result in bonus free throws at any other point during the game.
Background Bred by renowned Lexington, Kentucky horseman, Charles Nuckols Jr., he was out of the mare Milk Dipper and sired by Calumet Farm's Arlington Futurity winner, Sun Again.
This is a list of Canadian Football League regular season records by teams that played in the Canadian Football League as well as the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union and the Western Interprovincial Football Union that preceded it.
These areas are supported by applying financial metrics such as revenue and operating income to each one.
Balkans Cup is not considered a UEFA competition, and hence clubs' records in the Balkans Cup are not considered part of their European record.
Notes and references External links World Skate Europe Rink Hockey (official website) rinkhockey.net
It was Tot Robinson that was to break this record on 9 March 1901 with his mark of eight tries and no one challenged this until Arthur Hudson equalled and then broke it at Parc des Princes when England defeated France on 3 March 1910.
Current records Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Not ratified or later rescinded by IWF When the previous records and weight classes were discarded, the IWF defined "world standards" as the minimum lifts needed to qualify as world records in the new weight classes.
The following are the national records in track cycling in South Korea maintained by the Korea Cycling Federation.
The following are the national records in athletics in Puerto Rico maintained by its national athletics federation: Federación de Atletismo de Puerto Rico (FAPUR).
On March 30, 2014, radio station DZBB-AM reported that Guinness has officially recognized the new world record set by the Philippine Basketball Marathon.
The French performance is still recognized as the European record, while the official world record is held by the United States.
In November 2020, Sportradar announced extending its I&I capabilities to specifically supporting more US clients.
The Boston Celtics hold the longest consecutive NBA Finals appearance streak with ten appearances between 1957 and 1966.
The ISU left open the possibility for postponement until the end of the season, but did not announce a post-season date or location for any rescheduled event.
Breaks are limited to 5 minutes per 1 hour of playing time There are two teams and these teams are limited to 12-a-side (11 on the field plus one "sub") No player is permitted to leave the ground unless they are incapacitated A break is not permitted between innings.
MLS Cup Final appearance The list only includes clubs that failed to make the MLS Cup final for nine or more consecutive seasons.
From their highest camp at 19,325 ft (5,890 m), they and some of their guides and carriers reached an altitude of 22,259 ft (6,785 m) according to their barometric measurements, which would have put them higher than Llullaillaco.
He was undefeated in eight starts that year, with his largest win coming in the Kennedy Road Stakes.
This kind of ranking is less common in arts that do not claim a far Eastern origin, though it is used in the United States Marine Corps Martial Arts Program.
In 1938, Menow finished third in the Kentucky Derby to Lawrin and third to Dauber in the Preakness Stakes.
d The Brooklyn Nets last appeared in the 2003 Conference Finals and NBA Finals as the New Jersey Nets.
Career Golden Masters The achievement of winning all of the nine active ATP Masters tournaments over the course of a player's career.
When he raced in 1957 at age four, Canadian Champ's best results were a win in the Swynford Stakes at Woodbine Racetrack and three stakes race seconds.
Men Women References General ISU world records 28 January 2026 updated Specific External links ISU web site Speed skating statistics by Evert Stenlund
Outdoor Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by FEDACHI Not ratified or later rescinded by FEDACHI Men Women Mixed Indoor Men Women Notes References General Chilean Records 9 August 2025 Specific External links FEDACHI web site
Selection Committee Chaired by ICC Cricket Hall of Famer Clive Lloyd, the ICC Selection Committee was charged with two main tasks.
The distance completed in the hour is determined by adding the fraction of that final lap, calculated from the ratio of the time remaining at the start of that lap to the time taken for that lap, to the preceding completed laps.
If player A has a rating of R A {\displaystyle \,R_{\mathsf {A}}\,} and player B a rating of R B {\displaystyle \,R_{\mathsf {B}}\,} , the exact formula (using the logistic curve with base 10 and scale factor 400) for the expected score of player A is E A = 1 1 + 10 ( R B − R A ) / 400 .
The tables are pre-sorted by total number of first-place results, second-place results and third-place results, then most first-place results, second-place results, respectively.
Alex Rodriguez, Cristiano Ronaldo, Stephen Strasburg, Manny Machado, Deshaun Watson, Stephen Curry, and Giannis Antetokounmpo are on the list two times each.
This was the only time that a Triple Crown winner has not been retrospectively recognized as Horse of the Year.
The International Building Code specifies, "In places of assembly, the seats shall be securely fastened to the floor" but provides exceptions if the total number of seats is fewer than 100, if there is a substantial amount of space available between seats or if the seats are at tables.
All-time droughts NBA championship droughts Closest approaches without winning Updated through the 2025 NBA Finals.
The following are the national records in athletics in Guyana maintained by its national athletics federation: Athletics Association of Guyana (AAG).
The list is dominated by Puerto Rico's oldest promotion, the World Wrestling Council, which has controlled the industry in the country since its founding in 1973.
Active streaks NBA Playoffs appearance streaks This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons with a playoff appearance.
Many early claims of world altitude records are muddied by incomplete surveying and lack of knowledge of local geography, which have led to reassessments of many of the heights which were originally claimed.
{\displaystyle p_{B,P}={\frac {\frac {p_{B}\times p_{P}}{p_{L}}}{{\frac {p_{B}\times p_{P}}{p_{L}}}+(1-p_{B})\times {\frac {1-p_{P}}{1-p_{L}}}}}.} Or simplified as p B , P = p B × p P × ( 1 − p L ) ( p B × p P ) − ( p L × p B ) − ( p L × p P ) + p L .
157 – Harvey Wylie 151 – Gene Gaines 147 – Don Sutherin Most interception return yards, single game 151 – Marvin Coleman (November 4, 1995) 116 – Kenny Wheaton (November 5, 2004) 115 – Alfred Jordan (November 2, 1997) 106 – Greg Peterson (November 15, 1987) 103 – Glenn Rogers Jr.
The NFL officially counts and includes the statistical records logged by teams that played in the American Football League (AFL) and All-America Football Conference (AAFC).
The following are the national records in athletics in Saudi Arabia maintained by the Saudi Arabian Athletics Federation (SAAF).
Key: Season playoffs The following listing does not include play-in tournaments and is accurate as of the end of the 2021 Overwatch League playoffs.
The following are the national records in speed skating in Germany maintained by the Deutsche Eisschnelllauf-Gemeinschaft (DESG).
Other early sporting bodies dedicated to playing football include "The Gymnastic Society" of London which met regularly during the second half of the eighteenth century to pursue two sports: football and wrestling.
Furthermore, the company supports several charitable projects like the Czech affiliate of SOS Children's Villages.
As of 2021, mobile apps developed by Livesport have been globally downloaded by more than 100 million users.
At a time when harness racing was one of the largest sports in the nation, Dan Patch was a major celebrity.
The following are the national records in athletics in Russia maintained by All-Russia Athletic Federation (ARAF).
See also List of WNBA franchise post-season streaks List of NBA franchise postseason droughts Basketball portal == References ==
This too was considered controversial by the UCI, and while the record was allowed to stand, the position was banned.
Unless notified these statistics concern all seasons since inception of the ULEB Cup in the 2002–03 season, including qualifying rounds of the EuroCup as per "Competition facts"; all matches before regular season count as "qualifying matches".
Ajax accepted the penalties, and announced that it had extended the fan's stadium ban by 30 years and banned him for life from the club and its season ticket list.
Wally Buono is the all-time leader in both wins and losses with 282 wins, 165 losses, and three ties.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Weightlifting Federation of Turkmenistan.
If Goldberg was to lose another match at any point in time, unless he managed to duplicate his undefeated streak from 1997 to 1998, he would be forced to retire from professional wrestling.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Samahang Weightlifting ng Pilipinas.
If the number of gold medals is identical, the silver and bronze medals are used as tie-breakers (in that order).
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international indoor handball, beach handball and field handball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
In 1969, he was sent to a breeding operation in Japan, where he died in 1978 at the age of twenty-five.
This recumbent features two 700c-sized wheels similar to the M5 Carbon high-racer, and a single speed and an elliptical chainring.
This article involves the historical statistics of the National Games of China, starting with the first edition of the event hosted in 1959 by Beijing at Workers' Stadium.
The International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) restructured its weight classes in 1993, 1998, 2018 and 2025 nullifying earlier records.
The "Most recent holder" column shows the cyclist of the country that wore the yellow jersey most recently.
All major World Championships organized by Union Cycliste Internationale (International Cycling Union, UCI) are covered, as well as cycling events at the Olympic Games.
Main WTA Tour The longest match consisting of two standard sets and a match tie-break was played in the second qualifying round of a $25,000 ITF tournament in Darmstadt, Germany, on July 16, 2024.
These technical fouls are not for unsportsmanlike conduct, so they do not result in ejections from the game.
Men Women References General Danish records 12 January 2025 updated Specific External links Dansk Skøjte Union official website Dansk Skøjte Union records subpage
António Laureano - On 29 October 2020, Laureano, 18 at the time, rode a wave estimated by FMHUL to be around 101.4 feet (30.9 meters) at Praia do Norte.
Menow ended his career having bowed in both forelegs while finishing third to Seabiscuit in the Havre de Grace Handicap.
In the Merchants and Citizens Handicap, he carried 139 pounds to victory in August before a crowd of 25,000 including the Governors of New York and Pennsylvania.
A typical system awards a decreasing number of points for the top eight finishers, with eight points for first place, down to one point for eighth place.
He then describes the Malthusian struggle for existence, given the ability of organisms to reproduce in a world of finite resources.
The Selfish Genius: How Richard Dawkins Rewrote Darwin's Legacy is a 2009 book by Fern Elsdon-Baker about the history of evolutionary theory, published to coincide with the 150th anniversary of the publication of Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species.
According to Kösemen, the: "tone of voice is a high school student fanboying on the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire by Edward Gibbon".
This is a good example of the type of non sequitur that is abundant in this book, in that weighability and pourability are not criteria that come to mind when evaluating theories, nor is autoevolution itself especially weighable or pourable.
The second edition of The Dinosauria revised and reorganized into 30 chapters organized into two sections, the first on "Dinosaur Systematics" and the second on "Dinosaur Distribution and Biology".
He examines the magnificent achievements of civilised society, the sublime explorations that make up science and the humanities, as well as the horrible behaviours of this same society such as war, slavery and rape.
In Prum's "Beauty Happens" hypothesis, mates may have arbitrary preferences for certain traits and their offspring inherit not only the traits but also the preference for them leading to a runaway co-evolution, a concept envisioned by Ronald Fisher a century ago.
a worthy addition to the numerous individual studies of either man", and praised Lander for providing a new means of understanding and appreciating each man.
The theoreticians of Judaism and Christianity have misinterpreted the biological significance of sex, with the insistence that its primary role is procreation, and particularly in its treatment of homosexuals.
describes the book as a useful text for philosophy of religion courses, particularly those on the topic of the problem of evil.
Television documentary The documentary The Real Eve, based on the book and known as Where We Came From in the United Kingdom, was released in 2002.
Dinosaurs (The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages) is a book by Thomas R.
In May 1865 he sent a manuscript to his friend Thomas Huxley outlining his theory which he called pangenesis and asking whether he should publish it.
Prum indicates that while Charles Darwin made this argument in The Descent of Man, published in 1871, the concept was sidelined and forgotten and the notion of natural selection being the sole driver of evolution took over.
Reception Jerry Coyne writes "no one can finish Life without having accrued considerable knowledge of evolutionary history and a sense of the excitement of discovery that can be conveyed only by a professional scientist chipping away at the rock face of his discipline.
An Introduction to African Cave Taphonomy is a 1981 book by Charles Kimberlin Brain regarding the taphonomy of cave deposits in Africa.
[...] But the whole point of agriculture is to manipulate the environment so as to increase the amount of food that it will provide.
Shapiro in a review for the National Center for Science Education commented: David Holbrook, Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge, has written a polemic not so much against evolution as against scientific reductionism (which he sees incarnate in neo-Darwinism).
Darwin: The Life of a Tormented Evolutionist is a biography of Charles Darwin by Adrian Desmond and James Moore.
The Journey of Man: A Genetic Odyssey is a 2002 book by Spencer Wells, an American geneticist and anthropologist, in which he uses techniques and theories of genetics and evolutionary biology to trace the geographical dispersal of early human migrations out of Africa.
The second type, "proactive aggression", is planned, premeditated, and involves deliberate tactical strikes.
Hamilton realized was that the same applies to other close relations—brothers and sisters, nephews and nieces, close cousins.
For instance, the apex predator of the South American pampas, the coelurosaurian "cutlasstooth", has evolved huge, cutting teeth to allow it to prey upon large sauropods.
Ward ultimately concludes that humanity may last for hundreds of millions of years, overcoming every obstacle.
Branham) "Day of the Hunters" (Isaac Asimov) "Herding with the Hadrosaurs" (Michael Bishop) "Ontogeny Recapitulates Phylogeny" (R.
The discovery was made thanks to a graduate student named Alan Hildebrand that notified Alvarez of the evidence of a crater on the Yucatan Peninsula, which had never been published in the scientific literature by the Mexican petroleum geologists that had found it.
The first part, "A Guide to the Interpretation of Bone Accumulations in African Caves," details the processes and effects on how taphonomy occurs.
While the majority of Bone Sharps is true and all of it is based on history, Ottaviani took liberties throughout to better serve the story.
The Creationists: From Scientific Creationism to Intelligent Design is a history of the origins of anti-evolutionism by Ronald Numbers.
Williams writes that the only way adaptations can come into existence or persist is by natural selection.
Sujatha Byravan wrote in The Hindu that the book tells a compelling story of our forefathers based on genetic evidence.
Making the New from the Old describes gene duplication, particularly in the evolution of color vision in primates.
The book is written in question/answer format from Dembski's point of view as one of the conceptual leaders in the movement.
Anthropologists no longer regard "race" as a useful concept in understanding human evolution and variation." The anthropologist C.
It also considers questions of longevity – the previous generation dies because its biological clock shuts down metabolism and repair as to divert investment from the parent individual to that of the offspring.
Though Dixon made illustrations of his future animals to pitch the project, the final book used illustrations by other artists due to a publisher decision.
References ISBN 0-09-928375-1 (UK edition) ISBN 0-8050-6332-3 (US edition) External links Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation, Google Books Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation at IMDb
Frozen Evolution is a 2008 book written by parasitologist Jaroslav Flegr, which aims to explain modern developments in evolutionary biology.
Interactive version Using BBCi (BBC Interactive Television), viewers could during the programme's original airing watch Walking with Cavemen with additional layers of factual evidence, such as facts about fossils and comprehensive summaries of the science behind every episode.
Dennett does not believe there is much hope of discovering an algorithm for doing the right thing, but expresses optimism in our ability to design and redesign our approach to moral problems.
Moreover, it is but fair to leave it to Darwin himself at first to beat off the attacks of his opponents from the splendid structure which he has raised with such a master-hand.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
Hooker and Darwin exchanged roughly 1400 letters over the course of 40 years during their friendship.
In sexual reproduction they were transmitted from parents to their offspring with the mixing of the gemmules producing offspring with 'blended' characteristics of the parents.
In this book, Swamidass, a computational biologist and Christian, uses the findings of biology and genealogy to affirm belief in both evolution and a historical Genesis creation narrative.
The book collects fourteen novelettes and short stories by various science fiction authors, together with a general preface by the editors.
Müller argued that Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection that he had advanced in his book The Origin of Species only five years earlier was correct, citing evidence that he had come across in Brazil.
The high incidence of rape by non-alpha male orangutans and infanticide by male gorillas are also cited as examples of our mutual genetic heritage.
They do not.We are in full agreement that there is no support from the field of population genetics for Wade's conjectures.
Darwinian Fairytales is a 1995 book by the philosopher David Stove, in which the author criticizes application of the theory of evolution as an explanation for sociobiological behavior such as altruism.
The entomologist and geneticist Michael Majerus reviewed this in his 1998 book Melanism: Evolution in Action, and compared it with more recent studies which did not support some of Kettlewell's conclusions.
Martin Stuart-Fox noted that Holbrook's criticism of natural selection was a "cobble together, in a sort of scissors-and-paste criticism...
Reception Neil Tappen, writing in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology, wrote that the book "brings together the findings of a versatile investigator who has been working many years to interpret the hominid-bearing cave deposits in South Africa.
The book received anonymous reviews by biologist Alfred Russel Wallace that were generally supportive.
Description The Descent of Woman states that female apes raised their young without help from the males and that they stayed away from any males unless they were in their estrous cycle.
Fifty years after its publication, the National Academy of Sciences commissioned a book entitled Tempo and Mode in Evolution: Genetics and Paleontology 50 Years After Simpson edited by Walter M.
Acclaim and criticism The book has provoked controversy with some online commentary claiming it is another 'flea', a term used by Dawkins to describe people who have published books about him or his ideas.
The story's time traveller who views this new refuse-covered habitat is gruesomely attacked by ravenous flesh-eating crows.
Some groups of Humans choose to believe that God himself had placed them on there, leading to a resurgence in Religion, however, a leading theory is that an Alien Species had took them onto this planet.
The book rejects reductionist biology and takes influence from Michael Polanyi and vitalist philosophy.
Reception to Gale's book The book has received positive reviews, but the title has been criticized as misleading.
In a talk given to the large Houston Geological Society, Morris received a whimsical introduction by the president that fell well short of praise for his work.
Ward describes garbage dumps 10 million years in the future infested with multiple species of rats, a snake with a sticky frog-like tongue to snap up rodents, and pigs with snouts specialized for rooting through garbage.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
Arthropods are built from simple repeating patterns, but from those patterns there are many possible permutations (as Robert May noted earlier.) 8.
This original Man After Man would have been set in the same world as After Man and would have focused on man-made catastrophes destroying the ecosystem established in the previous book.
Biblical passages may be viewed metaphorically, taking them out of conflict with scientific knowledge.
Lima-de-Faria holds that there are no random events in evolution, there is no natural selection and all living and non-living matter evolve from the same laws.
The book is one of a series of long essays by respected contemporary Darwinian thinkers, which were published under the collective title Darwinism Today.
Others however argue that the broad scope of the edits in the fifth edition make up for any generalizations pertaining to specific details related to geological paleontology.
Away on a cave expedition, Athalaric asks Honorius to become a priest on his father's request, to lead Rome away from decay.
The invention of a super-strong material named Bulerite is partially responsible for this, which enables Earth to, at last, initiate a burgeoning space industry.
When I found out that Knight had met Cope just before Cope died, I became convinced that he was the character I needed.
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
Examples include Easter Island and the ruins of Petra, both of which were the result of deforestation resulting in desertification, according to Diamond.
In response the British Centre for Science Education published an open letter to UK school librarians together with a leaflet called "Explore Evolution Exposed" that was based on the NCSE analysis and adapted for the UK.
He theorizes about how the timing of orgasm can affect fertility, due to changes in the cervical mucus said to accompany orgasm, which then affect its ability to "filter out" sperm and prevent them from traveling into the cervix.
The bee falls into the liquid; as it escapes from the orchid, it deposits its pollen sacs on the bee’s back.
Vail, a river guide in the park, had recently converted to Christianity and adopted "'a different view' of the Canyon, which, according to a biblical time scale, cannot possibly be more than about a few thousand years old.
Notably, in Chapter XXVII Darwin introduced his "provisional hypothesis" of pangenesis that he had first outlined to Huxley in 1865.
Forced by a grassland fire to take refuge in a jungle, she survives an attack by pithecines and eventually joins another hominid tribe, who use axes much to her amazement.
Other topics mentioned include the evolution of the brain (with emphasis on the function of the neocortex in humans), the evolutionary purpose of sleep and dreams, demonstration of sign language abilities by chimps and the purpose of mankind's innate fears and myths.
The first unabridged edition of the book came out in 1995, and the third, latest unabridged edition came out in 2000; abridged versions were also distributed.
This was a book Wallace wrote as a defensive response to the scientific critics of natural selection.
Gould's claim is that "the Cambrian phylum count was larger, maybe much larger, than the contemporary count.
Distribution In 2007 tens of thousands of copies of the book were given to schools, prominent researchers and research institutes throughout the United States and Europe, including to a large number of French, Belgian, Spanish and Swiss schools.
On the Movements and Habits of Climbing Plants is a book by Charles Darwin first printed in book form in 1875 by John Murray.
See also The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature Mutual Aid: A Factor of Evolution References External links A Darwinian Left for Today and Beyond Peter Singer Excerpted from A Darwinian Left, pp.
believe that God has written on the rocks one enormous and superfluous lie for all mankind." (reproduced from Hardin, 1982).
Summary Chapter One, "What is Evolution?", gives a brief overview of Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection as theory and fact.
Some other taxonomic choices, such as the assignment of some genera to specific groups and the use of original clades (such as "minmids" and "paxceratopsians") also received some criticism.
David McKinnon, writing for the Journal of Clinical Investigation, notes that the book is stylistically and conceptually similar to the works of Stephen Jay Gould, but based strongly on findings in molecular biology that were not yet available for Gould.
Teihard's description of consciousness and of the Omega Point has been characterised as prophetic of the information age and the concept of the technological singularity.
It is a follow-up to his earlier book The Naked Ape; both books examine how the biological nature of the human species has shaped the character of the cultures of the contemporary world.
As in Dixon's previous work, After Man, ecology and evolutionary theory are applied to create believable creatures, all of which have their own binomial names and text describing their behaviour and interactions with other contemporary animals.
Animals mentioned: Tyrannosaurus Edmontosaurus Triceratops Ankylosaurus Ornithomimidae Dromaeosauridae Troodontidae == References ==
Gould's hope was to show that the relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny is fundamental to evolution, and at its heart is a simple premise—that variations in the timing and rate of development provide the raw material upon which natural selection can operate." M.
Paulin stated that "Darwin's conception of the cruelty of nature to her sentient offspring is wholly mistaken." He argued that the struggle for existence emphasized by Darwin was immoral.
Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History is a 1989 book on the evolution of Cambrian fauna by Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould.
Modern influence Various alternative evolutionary mechanisms favoured during "the eclipse of Darwinism" became untenable as more was learned about inheritance and mutation.
He cites data suggesting that in Britain at least 4% of children (but perhaps as many as 6–12%) are conceived via sperm competition, and claims that this lower figure is consistent with the earlier finding that 10% of children have a biological father who is other than their supposed father.
Our Flesh and Blood: Arms Races, the Human Race, and Natural Selection looks at evolutionary arms races, starting with the rough-skinned newt and garter snake.
It should rather be said that plants acquire and display this power only when it is of some advantage to them; this being of comparatively rare occurrence, as they are affixed to the ground, and food is brought to them by the air and rain." (p.
Since the genetic code is degenerate, some mutations result in codons that code for the same amino acid.
In tall and dense forests, twining plants would probably succeed better with minor expenditure of organic matter.
Modern biologists respect Poulton's advocacy of natural selection and sexual selection, despite the lack at the time of an adequate theory of heredity, and his recognition of frequency-dependent selection.
It is just a thoughtful, readable, and very stimulating book." Reviews In his review of The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change, Donald J.
Gould's thesis was that if the history of life were replayed over again, human-level intelligence would prove unlikely to ever arise again.
Carroll, Endless Forms Most Beautiful Richard Dawkins, The Blind Watchmaker Jonathan Weiner, The Beak of the Finch == References ==
Nagel's position is that principles of an entirely different kind may account for the emergence of life, and conscious life.
Bold lines, plentiful white space, and careful use of just two colors provide clarity and focus throughout the progression.
Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth is a book about natural history by British paleontologist Richard A.
It is a general interest book on evolution, following on his two previous works Endless Forms Most Beautiful and From DNA to Diversity (an introductory text for biology graduate students).
Creationists mentioned in the book include George Frederick Wright, Louis Agassiz, John William Dawson, George D.
Heilmann examines and rejects Beebe's own Proavis (named "Tetrapteryx" by Beebe) based on his analysis of Beebe's documentation of pelvic wings in bird embryos, which Heilmann found little evidence for.
Addressing topics such as animal psychology, the history of ethics, and human–animal relationships, the book argues that animals' mental and emotional capacities warrant ethical and legal recognition.
Morgan also wrote that the female orgasm went from a "natural sexual response" to becoming "very difficult".
The Sandwalk Adventures is a graphic novel created by Assistant Professor of Biology at Juniata College, Jay Hosler.
The book was described as having significant, "broad" coverage, but not as much "depth", making it a potential resource for students and researchers looking to find more-detailed references.
Ridley argues that few, if any, aspects of human nature can be understood apart from sex, since human nature is a product of evolution, driven by sexual reproduction in the case of sexual selection in human evolution.
The book is a journey through 65 million years of palaeontological records, from the extinction of the dinosaurs to just before present.
In the arena of efficacy he explores the forces beside natural selection that have been considered in evolutionary theory.
Paul when creating his creatures and also used patterns seen in the actual evolutionary history of the dinosaurs and pushing them to an extreme, such as with the creation of the "gourmand", an armless and massive scavenger descended from the tyrannosaurids.
It includes a timeline and author's note at the end for older children or parents who want material for further discussion.
Dawkins says the gene is the fundamental unit of selection, and then points out that selection does not act directly upon the gene, but upon "vehicles" or '"extended phenotypes".
Flowering Plants: Evolution Above the Species Level is a book written by evolutionary biologist and botanist G.
Ridley points out the relationship between cholesterol, steroidal hormones such as progesterone, cortisol, aldosterone, testosterone and oestradiol.
Newman Phenotypic Plasticity and Evolution by Genetic Assimilation, Vidyanand Nanjundiah Genetic and Epigenetic Factors in the Origin of the Tetrapod Limb, Günter P.
Townsend described it as a "scholarly book, well organized and well written, interesting to the intelligent reader whatever his special field".
It was highly important in asserting his dominance of comparative anatomy, and in the long run more influential in establishing evolution amongst biologists than was the debate with Samuel Wilberforce.
The book is widely used, and has received excellent reviews: "This book is a ′must′ for a biology or geology student and researcher concerned by palaeontology.
It is a geological blink." And, "it is no wonder the eye has evolved at least forty times independently around the animal kingdom." God's utility function This chapter is Dawkins's take on the meaning of life or the purpose of life.
Reception and legacy In his review for the Humboldt Journal of Social Relations, Robert Wisniewski commended the book for its revolutionary ecological perspective on global issues.
It was intended to promote the eugenics movement and bring its aims to a broader non-academic audience.
An article by Fern Elsdon-Baker in New Scientist of 19 July 2009 entitled the "Dawkins Dogma" contains parts of the arguments put forward within the book.
Mammoths, Sabertooths, and Hominids: 65 Million Years of Mammalian Evolution in Europe is a book written by Jordi Agustí and illustrated by Mauricio Antón.
The volume made The New York Times Best Seller list, was the 1991 winner of the Royal Society's Rhone-Poulenc Prize and the American Historical Association's Forkosch Award, and was a 1991 finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.
Cuvier concluded there must have been sudden and violent catastrophes that caused mass extinctions of viable species.
Gail Patricelli, Eileen Hebets, and Tamra Mendelson, while describing the book as containing "engaging descriptions of the natural world", criticize Prum's reasoning, description of modern sexual selection research, and conclusions.
He begins by stating that humans are indeed animals, sharing a common ancestry with all living creatures.
Lincoln and Darwin is structured as a series of alternating narratives concerning each man's interactions with the events and discoveries of the mid-19th century.
Kesavan Veluthat of The Hindu stated that the book shows a firm basis on which the study of Indian history can begin.
The earliest groups of humans are believed to find their present-day descendants among the San people, a group that is now found in western southern Africa.
Relation to other works The Scopes Trial was the subject of a comprehensive study previously written by L.
Despite his heavy teaching load and administrative duties at Virginia Tech, where he had just become head of a large civil-engineering program, Morris made steady progress on his section of the book, eventually contributing more than twice as much material as Whitcomb.
Dennett noted discomfort with Darwinism among not only lay people but also even academics and decided it was time to write a book dealing with the subject.
However, the pseudo-scientific method he uses in his work The Atlas of Creation cannot in any way be considered scientific.
He argues in the book that selection is not the mechanism of evolution because it cannot be weighed on a balance, poured into a vial, or measured in specific units.
He also looks at the relationship between science and race in the 19th century United States and the emergence and influence of scientific racism.
Trivers' starting point is to illustrate that self-deception is something of an evolutionary puzzle.
Here the cuckoo does not interact directly with the host (which could be meadow pipits, dunnocks or reed warblers).
(1982) Naked Emperors, Essays of a Taboo-Stalker, William Kaufmann Inc., Los Altos, CA, USA ISBN 0-86576-032-2 Roizen, Ron (1982).
Prum's chapter on duck sex shows how female ducks evolved having convoluted vaginas to protect themselves against effects of forced copulation.
First published in 1992 as The Creationists: The Evolution of Scientific Creationism, a revised and expanded edition was published under the current title in 2006.
By only presenting facts without any theory or proof, Harun Yahya abuses the credulity of individuals who listen to him or read his works.
There is an internet version of the test called the Moral Sense Test which is aimed at a worldwide public.
The book also developed concepts of time (offered in Bergson's earlier work) which significantly influenced modernist writers and thinkers such as Marcel Proust and Thomas Mann.
Most evolution—"nine-tenths"—occurs by the steady phyletic transformation of whole lineages (anagenesis).
They encounter descendants of beetles, rats, lizards and toads, and Cactus is hunted by a huge, transparent salamander.
(Adnan Oktar has also let readers download much of his work from his dozens of websites for free.) According to biologist Kenneth R.
Thus, history's final state will take place such that all of the creatures of the universe exist together with Jesus Christ as the "Logos" or sacred "Word".
Although Greenworld has so far only been published in Japan, Dixon has expressed interest in getting an English-language version published.
It was not until one century later that feminists were working from inside the natural sciences, and could address Darwin's androcentricity.
"In the general proportions of the body and limbs there is a remarkable difference between the Gorilla and man (p87)...
For example, selection between individuals should be preferred to group selection as an explanation if both seem plausible.
To him that predicament is the natural outcome of evolutionary processes and the powers given to humans through those processes.
But the tenth chapter, "Retardation and Neoteny in Human Evolution", would "mislead a great many people" who would be unable to make an informed judgement about its conclusions.
He writes that mind is a basic aspect of nature and that any philosophy of nature that cannot account for it is fundamentally misguided.
She criticized Darwin for basing his theory of evolution on "time-honored assumption that the male is the normal type of his species".
as a needed summary of our knowledge about the fossils found in the Cretaceous rocks of western Kansas and elsewhere in the Great Plains, Everhart's book is a success." Brian R.
He had a large collection of additional notes and by the middle of June had written drafts of an introduction and two chapters on the domestication of pigeons that would eventually form part of The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication.
Reception Horace Freeland Judson praised the book for its extremely extensive coverage which he likened to an encyclopaedia.
Dobzhansky considered Genetics of the Evolutionary Process (1970) a fourth edition, but one so much changed that it needed a new title.
It enclosed a twenty pages manuscript describing an evolutionary mechanism that was similar to Darwin's own theory.
It was broadcast on Arte as part of the television programme The Human Adventure, and dubbed into German under the title Charles Darwin und die Evolution.
Chapter 18, Cures Recombinant DNA enabled genetic manipulation with restriction enzymes and a ligase.
Moore challenges the traditional view that places human consciousness and mental abilities on a unique pedestal, arguing that many cognitive and emotional capacities, such as problem-solving, memory, emotions, and social behaviors, are also present in varying degrees across the animal kingdom.
For instance he considers mutations to be errors only, not a process that has persisted to provide variation and evolutionary potential.
It was first published in paperback by Ace Books in June 1990, and as an ebook by Baen Books in November 2014.
Amongst the theories advanced in the book, Lane endorses the hydrogen hypothesis for the formation of the eukaryotic cell, whereby mitochondria are the original defining characteristic of the structure.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
It was described in a 1998 review by palaeontologist Mark Purnell as being uniquely inclusive in its coverage of the subject, going into detail about the history of the science as well as methodology and other aspects.
https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=23485800&lang=ru&site=eds-live&scope=site Moral Minds: How Nature Designed Our Universal Sense of Right and Wrong.
Lima-de-Faria emphasizes that the laws of physics and chemistry generate the basic forms found in living organisms, and that physicochemical forces and organisms interact at many levels.
Hall, Evolution & Development Book review – by Dan Graur, The Quarterly Review of Biology Notes External links Frozen Evolution - available online
The Turkish original was translated into English, German, Chinese, French, Dutch, Italian, Urdu, Hindi and Russian.
It is only by the accumulation of new and valuable material that the controversy will gradually be brought into a state fit for final decision, and this appears to be for the present of more importance than a repeated analysis of what is already before us.
In Neanderthals, Bandits and Farmers, Tudge offers an explanation for the beginning of the population explosion and that farming was not suddenly invented 10,000 years ago, but had existed as what he called proto-farming or hobby farming for at least 30,000 years earlier.
In a morphodynamic system, the tendency towards symmetry produces not global equilibrium, but a complex geometric form like a hexagonal Benard cell or the resonant frequency of a flute.
Several future human species evolve through natural means and through genetic engineering, conducted by both humans themselves and by a mysterious and superior alien race called the Qu.
Content The work is an examination of naturalist Charles Darwin and the theory of evolution he proposed and marshaled evidence for in The Origin of Species.
Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex is a 2002 popular science book by the British evolutionary biologist Olivia Judson written in the role of her alter ego, agony aunt Dr Tatiana.
"The interpretation of something as information indirectly reinforces the capacity to do this again." References Incomplete Nature: How Mind Emerged from Matter.
It focuses largely on how the philosophical assumptions of biologists influenced and limited their understanding.
The aim of the book is to "clarify certain issues in the study of adaptation and the underlying evolutionary processes." Though more technical than a popular science book, its target audience is not specialists but biologists in general and the more advanced students of the topic.
Summary The Naked Ape, which was serialised in the Daily Mirror newspaper and has been translated into 23 languages, depicts human behaviour as largely evolved to meet the challenges of prehistoric life as a hunter (see Nature versus nurture).
Examples are the decorative feathers of the male great argus, the dances of the male red-capped manakin, and the flight patterns of the male golden-winged manakin.
In a letter to Joseph Alston, then superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park, the presidents of seven geoscience societies voiced their concerns: "The Grand Canyon provides a remarkable and unique opportunity to educate the public about earth science.
Stepping from simple to higher organized organisms, Lorenz shows how they gain and benefit from information.
Kelleher comments that the authors’ argument makes it difficult to imagine the language in which their book would have been written, were it not for the ability to digest milk.
President of the Linnean Society (1912–1916) Royal Society's Darwin Medal in 1914 Linnean Society's Linnean Medal in 1922.
Boquila trifoliata, a South American member of the family Lardizabalaceae, is a climbing vine with a highly variable appearance (phenotype).
Military camouflage relies predominantly on disruptive patterns, though methods such as outline disruption are also used, and others have been prototyped.
Ships Until the 20th century, naval weapons had a short range, so camouflage was unimportant for ships, and for the men on board them.
Although lions are cathemeral, and may be active at any time of day or night, they prefer to hunt at night because many of their prey species (zebra, antelope, impala, wildebeest, etc.) have poor night vision.
Thus, it is not certain that the form is indeed extinct, if one can speak of "extinction" in any but a population genetical sense anyway.
The pied raven had large areas of white feathering, most frequently on the head, the wings and the belly, and its beak was light brown.
They also demonstrated that crickets, like moths, fly away from bats once they've heard their echolocating calls, an example of negative phonotaxis.
Buchanan White, in an 1877 letter to Nature made the association between the moth's high-pitched sounds and the high-pitched bat calls and wondered whether the moths would be able to hear it.
Several other insects have sensitive ultrasonic hearing that probably is used in bat evasion, but direct evidence is not yet available.
Cepaea is a genus of large air-breathing land snails, terrestrial pulmonate gastropod molluscs in the family Helicidae.
First World War In the First World War, the French army formed a camouflage corps, led by Lucien-Victor Guirand de Scévola, employing artists known as camoufleurs to create schemes such as tree observation posts and covers for guns.
Its similarity to the "broadband, harsh sounds" used as warning calls by birds and mammals may enhance its effectiveness.
Infants might also lack the physical ability to produce alarm calls or lack the necessary experience to classify unfamiliar objects as dangerous and worthy of an alarm signal.
In a manner that is similar to the development of Drosophila fruit flies, Hh is expressed in all cells in the posterior compartment of the developing butterfly wing during the mid fifth instar of butterfly wing development.
In some cases, the variation in larval type is a 'plastic' trait in that it is environmentally mediated.
A gene is said to be polymorphic if more than one allele occupies that gene's locus within a population.
Sir Edward Bagnall Poulton, FRS HFRSE FLS (27 January 1856 – 20 November 1943) was a British evolutionary biologist, a lifelong advocate of natural selection through a period in which many scientists such as Reginald Punnett doubted its importance.
The presence of genes for synthesizing carotenoids in these arthropods has been attributed to independent horizontal gene transfer (HGT) events from fungi.
"By skilful jugglings we are shown how anything and everything may be rendered inconspicuous," citing the skunk among other boldly black and white animals with both the skunk coloration and the "well-known skunk smell".
Such animals, like the tawny dragon lizard, may resemble rocks, sand, twigs, leaves, and even bird droppings (mimesis).
Statistical research has shown that an individual of a given phenotype will generally be, compared to an individual of a differing phenotype, more resistant to certain diseases while less resistant to others.
A study by Deborah K Letourneau in 1983 found that the ants were so sated by the plant's pearl bodies that more than half the insect eggs they encountered while patrolling were dropped to the ground.
Implicitly, also, Cott follows Thayer in his Figure 3 "Larva of Eyed Hawk-moth" in both "natural (e.g.
On a day-to-day basis, species can see significant changes in their internal temperatures, their general movement, feeding and body mass.
Among vertebrates, snakes such as the rubber boa and the coral snake coil up and hide their head, instead displaying their tail as a false head.
Many species of cat, including Geoffroy's cats, jungle cats, pampas cats, and servals, have white markings, whether spots or bars, on the backs of their ears; it is possible that these signal "follow me" to the young of the species.
Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats.
As the predominant chlorophylls degrade, the hidden pigments of yellow xanthophylls and orange beta-carotene are revealed.
Each of these areas has one to four mimicry rings, with patterns different from those in other areas.
Snipers of many armies have since then adopted the ghillie suit for the effective concealment that it affords.
However, when the water level is low and desiccation is imminent, the tadpoles develop a morphology (wide mouth, strong jaw) that permits them to cannibalize.
Gould as distinct species, supposed to have been created here; yet the close affinity of most of these birds to American species in every character, in their habits, gestures, and tones of voice, was manifest.
In the species Hemisphaerota cyanea, the larva constructs a shield which may be more descriptively called a "fecal thatch", because it is woven from narrow, coiled strands of frass.
He predicted that the insects (Brood X) "may be expected again in they year 1800 which is Seventeen Since their third appearance to me".
The second type of thorn mimicry, a more classic case of Batesian mimicry, involves the pointed, colorful organs like buds, leaves and fruit of mimetic plant species that mimic warning-coloured aposematic colorful thorns not found anywhere else in the organism.
Among the observations in Bates's 1862 paper is the statement: I was never able to distinguish the Leptalides from the species they imitated, although they belong to a family totally different in structure and metamorphosis from the Heliconidae, without examining them closely after capture.
The genetics of this situation cannot be clarified in the absence of a detailed breeding program, but two loci with linkage disequilibrium is a possibility.
Many external mechanical defenses and quantitative defenses are constitutive, as they require large amounts of resources to produce and are costly to mobilize.
On the contrary, when a given allele is low in frequency (p → {\displaystyle \to } 0) it will increase in frequency in the future, avoiding its extinction and maintaining polymorphism at the locus.
These results were consistent with those found in studies on chickens, lizards, and blue crabs at the time, and provided support that rabbits use tonic immobility as an antipredator response.
This cost can be seen when plants that use chemical defenses are compared to those plants that do not, in situations when herbivores are excluded.
For instance, the orchid Epipactis helleborine is physiologically and morphologically adapted to attract social wasps as their primary pollinators.
Batesian mimicry is frequency dependent: it is most effective when the ratio of mimic to model is low; otherwise, predators will encounter the mimic too often.
Vein cutting is when a herbivore creates small openings along the length of the leaf vein, while trenching refers to the creation of a cut across the width the leaf allowing the individual to safely consume the separated portion.
In ecology, crypsis is the ability of an animal or a plant to avoid observation or detection by other animals.
See also Animal suicide Anti-predator adaptation Apoptosis Autohaemorrhaging Exploding animal Self-destruct == References ==
Tarantulas from the genera Avicularia, Pachistopelma and Iridopelma possess Type II hairs (Hoover, 1997).
The Española cactus finch (Geospiza conirostris) lives on Isla Genovesa (formerly Tower Island) which is formed from a shield volcano, and is home to a variety of birds.
Bamboo fossils are uncommon because their hollow stems and fibrous tissues decay rapidly, leaving little trace in the geological record.
Plants, on the other hand, protect their resources for use in growth and reproduction, by limiting the ability of herbivores to eat them.
Mobbing can also be used to obtain food, by driving larger birds and mammals away from a food source, or by harassing a bird with food.
A third hypothesis is that automimics are more likely to die or to be injured by a predator's attack.
coli and many other bacteria, but also in several eukaryotic model organisms such as baker's yeast and fission yeast.
Costs and decision to display Risks While animals performing distraction displays are rarely documented as being killed, risks to the displaying animal do exist.
Vertebrates Tonic immobility has been observed in a large number of vertebrate taxa, including sharks, fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Research has also shown that they do not develop typical signs of aging and do not accumulate age-related diseases like cancer.
Hamilton's frog, found on Stephens and Maud islands, stays hidden for most of the day when temperatures are warmer and is mainly active at night.
It may be that since plants often grow in clusters, foraging herbivores are hard to deceive once they have started to feed in an area.
Awards and distinctions Cuthill won the Scientific Medal of the Zoological Society of London in 1998, the Nature and NESTA award for mentoring in science in 2005.
Seven species of frogs in the genus Pleurodema have lumbar glands (making the animals distasteful, so in their case the display is likely aposematic); these glands are usually boldly contrasted in black as a further warning.
Autothysis (from the Greek roots autos- αὐτός "self" and thysia θυσία "sacrifice") or suicidal altruism is the process where an animal destroys itself via an internal rupturing or explosion of an organ which ruptures the skin.
Its presence in Northeast India indicates that the region served as a refuge where bamboo continued to survive under favorable conditions.
Poulton's son, Ronald Poulton-Palmer played international rugby for England and was killed in May 1915 in World War I.
The philosopher and jazz musician David Rothenberg wrote of Cott's art: Back to Hugh Cott's marvelous engraving of a potoo hidden in a black and white Costa Rican forest, frozen vertically like the tree trunk on which it hides.
When necessary, in order to scare away a potential predator, it can display markings which resemble eyes.
Self-decoration is seen in some insects such as caddis fly larvae, the nymphs of the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
Scorpions perform non-bluffing threat displays, as they have powerful defences, but various predators still eat them.
When the wasp eggs hatch, the larvae feed on the stinkbug eggs from within, killing the stinkbug eggs, after which the wasps hatch.
Hemiptera Cercopidae – including spittlebugs Prosapia bicincta and Prosapia ignipectus Lepidoptera Tiger moth adults, such as Arctia caja, which mixes haemolymph with glandular products (neurotoxic choline esters).
nemoralis in Scotland and Scandinavia and it is the only one of the two species in Iceland and the only one native to North America.
He then went on an expedition to the lower Amazon (1925–1926), and on research trips to the Zambesi river area in Africa (1927), including Mozambique, Zambia and East Africa, and Lanzarote (1930).
Now, that these colours are onely fantastical ones, that is, such as arise immediately from the refractions of the light, I found by this, that water wetting these colour'd parts, destroy'd their colours, which seem'd to proceed from the alteration of the reflection and refraction.
The urticating setae, or spines, can cause irritation when they break off and lodge in the skin of larger animals or humans.
Agri-environment schemes spread across the neighbouring area of Romney Marsh have been set up to provide over 800 hectares of additional flower-rich habitat for the bees.
Light pollution Light pollution is a major issue for nocturnal species, and the impact continues to increase as electricity reaches parts of the world that previously had no access.
Some, such as Emma Lundgren and Stüssy, have created their own designs or integrated camouflage patterns with other symbols.
As seals are distributed over such a large area, these display behaviours can slightly change geographically as males try to appeal to the largest number of females possible over a large geographical range.
All the same, the conspicuousness of motion raises the question of whether and how motion itself could be camouflaged.
Sheppard found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
They are known for their ability to spray a liquid with a strong, unpleasant scent from their anal glands.
Multi-shelled chitons also volvate, although evidence suggests that they do not use this behavior as an anti-predatory defense but rather as a form of locomotion.
Studies of rear-wing damage support the hypothesis that this strategy is effective in deflecting attacks from the insect's head.
History In 1889, William Bateson observed in detail the way that decorator crabs fix materials on their backs.
The other side of the argument is that the alarm calls create mental representation of predators in the listeners minds.
By appearing non-living, they are less likely to be eaten by herbivores, and in dusty dry conditions among stones are extremely difficult to detect.
The colour is mainly determined by alleles at a single locus with brown dominant to pink, which is dominant to yellow.
Orthoptera Bushhoppers, such as Dictyophorus spumans, Phymateus viridipes and Phymateus leprosus – their haemolymph contains cardiac glycosides, sequestered from milkweed on which they feed.
He studied, described and presented examples of such diverse camouflage effects as obliterative shading, disruption, differential blending, high contrast, coincident disruption, concealment of the eye, contour obliteration, shadow elimination, and mimicry.
Thus, he began to give more attention to the underwater lighting and scenery where he frames his objects, to create better image compositions, "I’ve really worked on making my photographs aesthetically pleasing", he has mentioned.
References External links b/w photo of the Braunschweig specimen Den Hvide Ravn- extensive information in Danish
Electrical mimicry The electric eel, Electrophorus, is capable of delivering a powerful electric shock that can stun or kill its prey.
Kerr was accompanied by John Samuel Budgett, who studied the frogs of the area and discovered a new genus.
Polymorphisms are also classified based on whether the change is in the sequence of the resulting protein or in the regulation of the expression of the gene, which can occur at sites that are typically upstream and adjacent to the gene, but not always.
hortensis is more active at lower temperatures, aestivates higher on the vegetation and is more diurnal, although this appears to be independent of whether the other species is present or not.
These and other species of rodent are also known to exhibit a so-called "false caudal autotomy," whereby the skin on the tail slides off with minimal force, leaving only the bare vertebral structure.
Among animals, self-decoration is found in decorator crabs, some insects such as caddis flies and the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
In cases where this relationship demonstrates "specificity" (the evolution of each trait is due to the other), and "reciprocity" (both traits must evolve), the species are thought to have coevolved.
Mimesis Mimesis is practised by animals such as the leafy sea dragon, Phycodurus eques, and the leaf scorpionfish, Taenianotus triacanthus, which resemble parts of plants, and gently rock their bodies as if swayed by a current.
Some species preferentially select stinging animals such as sea anemones or noxious plants, benefiting from aposematism as well as or instead of crypsis.
For instance, tree-dwelling parakeets are mainly green; woodcocks of the forest floor are brown and speckled; reedbed bitterns are streaked brown and buff; in each case the animal's coloration matches the hues of its habitat.
Martin Stevens is a British sensory and evolutionary ecologist, an underwater photographer and a natural history and popular science writer.
Gaping is a common form of behavior in the animal kingdom, in which an animal opens its mouth widely and displays the interior of its mouth, for any of various purposes.
History The pied raven received binomial names such as Corvus leucophaeus (by Vieillot, 1817) and Corvus leucomelas (by Wagler, 1827).
Larvae of species that eat aphids decorate themselves with the waxy material produced by the aphids; larvae decorated like this are ignored by ants which farm the aphids, whereas the ants eject undecorated larvae, making this a wolf in sheep's clothing strategy of aggressive mimicry.
These colours provide strong contrast with green foliage, resist changes in shadow and lighting, are highly chromatic, and provide distance dependent camouflage.
In experiments with Bombus terrestris, workers were trained to solve a novel task (string-pulling) to obtain a reward, and naïve individuals that observed trained demonstrators were significantly more successful than those that did not.
Nakagawa & Cuthill (2007) was selected by Biological Reviews as one of their highlight papers of the last 200 years == References ==
Foraging behaviour Bumblebees generally visit flowers that exhibit the bee pollination syndrome and these patches of flowers may be up to 1–2 km from their colony.
This is sufficient to maintain the system, although in this case the heterozygote has slightly lower viability.
They may make use of conspicuous mating displays, including vocal signals, which may then develop through sexual selection.
Once she has infiltrated a host colony, the Psithyrus female kills or subdues the queen of that colony, and uses pheromones and physical attacks to force the workers of that colony to feed her and her young.
The aphid forms a large ball-shaped plant-made nest, called the gall, in which hundreds of aphids are living as a colony.
The coloration of these insects evolved between 1860 and 1940 to match the changing colour of the tree trunks on which they rest, from pale and mottled to almost black in polluted areas.
Therefore, alarm calling may require advanced levels of development, perception, categorization, and social cognition.
Size dimorphism shows a correlation with sexual cannibalism, which is prominent in spiders (it is also found in insects such as praying mantises).
More recent studies generally find more recent (Late Carboniferous to Permian) age for the basalmost divergence among lissamphibians.
Some animals are named for their tendency to use gaping as a threat display, or for the features that become apparent when making such a display.
Medical Entomology: a Survey of Insects and Allied Forms Which Affect the Health of Man and Animals.
Male body size is not under selection due to cannibalism in all spider species such as Nephila pilipes, but is more prominently selected for in less dimorphic species of spiders, which often selects for larger male size.
Polyphenism in Lepidoptera is commonly seen in the form of seasonal morphs, especially in the butterfly families of Nymphalidae and Pieridae.
One habitat is rocky sea-side cliffs, where the plants are bushy with broad leaves and expanded inflorescences; the other is among sand dunes where the plants grow prostrate with narrow leaves and compact inflorescences.
The background colour of the shell ranges from dark brown, through pink to yellow or even approaching white.
Termites will use autothysis to defend their colony, as the ruptured gland produces a sticky harmful secretion that leads to a tar baby effect in defense.
Genotype contributes to phenotype, the observable traits and characteristics in an individual or organism.
Ford described peppered moth evolution as "one of the most striking, though not the most profound, evolutionary changes ever actually witnessed in nature".
Defensive Batesian In Batesian mimicry, named after the English naturalist Henry Walter Bates, a harmless species has evolved to imitate the warning signals of a harmful species directed at a predator.
By the use of cutting edge camera equipment, the researchers successfully showed how the orange is perceived by horses as shades of green.
In fact, two new carotenoids that were isolated from a sponge called Phakellia stelliderma showed mild cytotoxicity against mouse leukemia cells.
To reduce light production, the squid can change the shape of its iris; it can also adjust the strength of yellow filters on its underside, which presumably change the balance of wavelengths emitted.
Applications An example of the usage of SSLPs (microsatellites) is seen in a study by Rosenberg et al., where SSLPs were used to cluster different continental populations of human beings.
Tenebrionidae (darkling beetles) - larvae of Asbolus verrucosus have been observed to autohaemorrhage while they feign death.
In nesting bumblebees, it is modified to form a pollen basket, a bare shiny area surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen, whereas in cuckoo bumblebees, the hind leg is hairy all around, and they never carry pollen.
The thrushes hunt by sight, and selectively capture those forms which stand out against the background, so predation may be one factor influencing the different proportion of phenotypes (morphs) found in woodland than in open habitats.
Several mimicry mechanisms in plants were described in the 20th century, starting with Pouyannian (1916), Vavilovian (1951), and Gilbertian (1975).
Autotomy serves either to improve the chances of escape or to reduce further damage occurring to the remainder of the animal such as the spread of a chemical toxin after being stung.
These ants mostly use autothysis against other arthropods, like invading ant colonies or against termite colonies, and are rather ineffective towards larger vertebrate predators such as lizards or birds.
In 1775, Thomas Jefferson recorded in his "Garden Book" Brood II's 17-year periodicity, writing that an acquaintance remembered "great locust years" in 1724 and 1741, that he and others recalled another such year in 1758 and that the insects had again emerged from the ground at Monticello in 1775.
Second, both dishonest and honest individuals must escalate aggression according to the quality they have signalled, regardless of their actual quality.
The blood of these animals usually contains toxic compounds, making the behaviour an effective chemical defense mechanism.
These bristles can embed themselves in the other animal's skin or eyes, causing physical irritation, usually to great discomfort.
Clarke for his pioneering work on frequency-dependent selection "by predators acting on non-mimetic polymorphic prey (i.e.
Sexual dimorphism is present in all families of the Papilionoidea and more prominent in the Lycaenidae, Pieridae, and certain taxa of the Nymphalidae.
In other cases, the larval type is genetically determined - a good example is the polychaete Streblospio benedicti, where some mothers release small planktotrophic eggs and other mothers release large lecithotrophic eggs.
Unkenreflex – interchangeably referred to as unken reflex (Unke is the German word for fire-bellied toads) – is a defensive posture adopted by several branches of the amphibian class, including salamanders, toads, and certain species of frogs.
As such it can be any mechanism that may evolve by natural selection; no conscious intention is involved.
For example, the larva of the tortoise beetle Plagiometriona clavata obtains chemical compounds from its diet of bittersweet (Solanum dulcamara), excretes them, and incorporates them into its shield, where they repel the predatory ant Formica subsericea.
Termites Groups of termites whose soldiers have been found to use autothysis to defend their colonies include Serritermes serrifer, Dentispicotermes, Genuotermes, and Orthognathotermes.
The "piebald" allele(s) was or were presumably recessive or (if more than one) only caused the novel coloration if they were all present.
Plot summary Technical Fairy, First Class gives the troops "A Lecture On Camouflage" with the aid of Private Snafu.
In the Teleogryllus cricket, two ascending interneurons carry information to the brain - one carries information about cricket song (around 5 kHz) while the other gets excited at ultrasound and other high frequencies (15–100 kHz).
The important role of secondary plant substances in plant defense was described in the late 1950s by Vincent Dethier and G.S.
With this subfamily's notorious obscurity, and the relative variation between species and subspecies, the relationships between members is still quite indeterminate.
A larger cornea and pupil correlated well with whether these two classes of organisms were nocturnal or not.
A study by Ward-Fear, Brown & Shine (2010) found that meat ants could severely injure toad metamorphs within 5 seconds, and that more than 80% of ant attacks were fatal.
Similarly, sea urchins use their tube feet to pick up debris from the bottom and attach it to their upper surfaces.
Nocturnality is a behavior in some non-human animals characterized by being active during the night and sleeping during the day.
Evolution Aposematism, camouflage, and mimicry Müllerian mimicry relies on aposematism, or warning signals.
This pattern implies that the rattling "could serve as a general attention-getting device", which "is designed as a deimatic or startle display".
Skunks carry just enough for five or six successive sprays – about 15 cm3 – and require up to ten days to produce another supply.
The majority of the subfamily extending as far north as the Russian Far-East (Elcysma westwoodi) and as far west as Pakistan (Campylotes).
It excretes an amount of feces, sometimes with a droplet of gluey secretion, and places it on the caudal furca using its anal turret.
Some species of frogs are blinded by the quick changes in light, while nocturnal migratory birds may be disoriented, causing them to lose direction, tire out, or be captured by predators.
Its exceptional preservation provides insight into bamboo evolution and survival during the Ice Age.
Weaponry leads to increased fitness by increasing success in male–male competition in many insect species.
Cuttlefish may be doing this with their active camouflage by choosing to form stripes at right angles to their front-back axis, minimising motion signals that would be given by occluding and displaying the pattern as they swim.
Such injury-feigning displays are particularly well known in nesting waders and plovers, but also have been documented in other species, including snowy owls, the alpine accentor, and the mourning dove.
He was a junior research fellow at Brasenose College Oxford until 1989 when he became a lecturer at the University of Bristol.
External links Tree of Life: Caudata Salamander Gallery Caudata Culture Critter Crossings: Salamander Tunnels at U.S.
Müllerian mimicry has been implicated in the coloration of some Mediterranean nudibranchs, all of which derive defensive chemicals from their sponge diet.
Similarly the threat display of the walking stick phasmid (Peruphasma schultei) is not a bluff: the insect sprays defensive dolichodial-like monoterpene chemical compounds at attackers.
Genotype can also be used to refer to the alleles or variants an individual carries in a particular gene or genetic location.
Spatial disturbance The increasing amount of habitat destruction worldwide as a result of human expansion has given both advantages and disadvantages to different nocturnal animals.
Camouflage While trying to photograph a hen partridge on her nest, Cott waited for hours for the bird to return, finally taking some pictures of the empty nest before giving up.
Form and phase are sometimes used, but are easily confused in zoology with, respectively, "form" in a population of animals, and "phase" as a color or other change in an organism due to environmental conditions (temperature, humidity, etc.).
Allocation cost is related to the channelling of a large quantity fitness-limited resources to form resistance traits in plants.
In Taï National Park and on Tiwai Island, monkeys have a predisposition to threat-specific alarm signals.
Two Napoleonic era skirmishing units of the British Army, the 60th Foot and 95th Rifles, were the first to adopt camouflage in the form of a rifle green jacket, while other British troops largely continued to wear red coats.
Normal individuals of the subspecies varius, which is found on Iceland and the Faroe Islands, already show a tendency towards more extensive white feather bases compared with the nominate subspecies.
Pixellated shapes pre-date computer aided design by many years, already being used in Soviet Union experiments with camouflage patterns, such as "TTsMKK" developed in 1944 or 1945.
He conducted a range of experiments on the colours of polymorphic caterpillars to examine if food, background or other factors are involved in their colour changes.
Another plant that could well be a cryptic mimic of its host is the parasitic Australian mistletoe, Amyema cambagei, which has an "uncanny resemblance" to the foliage of Casuarina trees.
Further, it grades into other means of protection including "the borrowing of protection from aposematic partners" and the use of "fortified hiding-places" and burrows.
It uses occlusion, covering certain facial features; transformation, altering the shape or colour of parts of the face; and a combination of the two.
Dodson, is a form of reproductive floral mimicry where the model belongs to a different species than the mimic.
There's evidence that topsentins are potent mediators of immunogenic inflation, and topsentin and scytonemin are potent inhibitors of neurogenic inflammation.
Nevertheless, statistically we can detect systematic variation at continental scales, and also between habitats, and at various scales down to a few tens of metres.
The points of these bristles usually break off in the wound, and the acrid fluid is pressed into it.
General disturbances in Taï National Park and both general disturbances and leopards on Tiwai Island result in alarm calls assembled into long sequences.
Cott suggests this follows the more general rule that animals resemble their background: in a transparent medium like seawater, that means being transparent.
Subsequent research has provided evidence for only two functions of moth sounds, neither of which involve "auditory crypsis".
Humans In humans, environmental differences due to lifestyle choices are a consideration, for instance the differences between someone who spends much time on the sofa before the television, beer in hand, and an individual who spends his time in the gym or the soccer field can be pronounced.
Defence of Darwinism Edward Bagnall Poulton's 1890 book, The Colours of Animals, renamed Wallace's concept of warning colours "aposematic" coloration, as well as supporting Darwin's then unpopular theories of natural selection and sexual selection.
Emsleyan/Mertensian Emsleyan or Mertensian mimicry describes the unusual case where a deadly prey mimics a less dangerous species.
In his 1896 book Charles Darwin and the Theory of Natural Selection, Poulton described Darwin's On the Origin of Species as "incomparably the greatest work" that the biological sciences had seen.
Here they observed that both seem to be expressed in eyespots, suggesting a relation with the Hh signaling pathway.
Popular science writing Besides the academic textbooks, Stevens has also written for a broader audience and has three books on popular science.
They have aposematic (warning) coloration, often consisting of contrasting bands of colour, and different species of bumblebee in a region often resemble each other in mutually protective Müllerian mimicry.
Both male and female puffins use gaping as a prominent part of their threat display, with "a range of intensities" based on the situation, and with puffins engaging in territorial gape contests, where they mirror each other until one gives up and leaves, or an actual fight occurs.
The end of the glaciation was caused by volcanic release of carbon dioxide and dissolution of clathrate hydrates and may have been hastened by the release of methane from equatorial permafrost.
The Taghanic event is found in the Tully Formation and Marcellus Formation in New York and Pennsylvania, including the Windom shale there.
Mary River Formation and Willow Creek Formation in the southern Alberta plains; into the upper part of the Wapiti Group in the northern Alberta and northeastern British Columbia; and into the upper part of the Brazeau Formation and the Coalspur Formation in the foothills of the Canadian Rockies.
The spreading rate then dropped off, with the decrease occurring around 63 million years ago, by which time the main phase of Deccan volcanism ended.
The extinction pulse at the end of the Katian was selective in its effects, disproportionally affecting deep-water species and tropical endemics inhabiting epicontinental seas.
That year's conference was under-attended and their report attracted little attention, as many experts on impact craters and the K–Pg boundary were attending the Snowbird conference instead.
In Europe it is also known as the Grande Coupure (French for "great cut"), marked by the extinction of many endemic mammal groups present in the region during the Eocene, and the immigration of previously absent mammal groups into Europe from Asia.
Permo-triassic events in the Eastern tethys: stratigraphy, classification and relations with the Western tethys.
The extinction's extreme bias towards larger animals further supports a relationship with human activity rather than climate change.
This boundary is marked by a major extinction event, including that of the dinosaurs along with about 70% of all other species.
In 2007, Underhill continued to present evidence that he argues does not support the impact hypothesis.
However, the dinosaur remains in the Denver Formation are significantly more disarticulated and fragmentary, suggesting that the formation's depositional environment was not conducive to the rapid burial that would have preserved articulated dinosaur skeletons.
The introduced pigs had great success on Mauritius and became abundant, likely killing dodo young and outcompeting adults.
Bird and dinosaur eggs have also been found at the site, along with unidentified hadrosaur fossils (possibly from Edmontosaurus or Kritosaurus).
Regional crustal thinning supports the theory of this rifting event and likely encouraged the rise of the plume in this area.
The metaphor refers to the mythological Medea (representing the Earth), who kills her own children (multicellular life).
Ice ages During the ice ages of the Pleistocene, a clear correlation existed between marine regressions and episodes of glaciation.
Out of all known bird species, (approximately 11,154), 159 (1.4%) have become extinct, with 226 (2%) being critically endangered.
The Lilliput effect, a term coined to describe a phenomenon wherein organisms shrink in size following a mass extinction, affected megalodontid bivalves, whereas file shell bivalves experienced the Brobdingnag effect, the reverse of the Lilliput effect.
The effects of the impact arrived in the form of an onslaught of seismic waves and the rain of spherules that set the surrounding vegetation on fire.
He speculates that it was destroyed around 12,000 years ago by sudden climate change during the Younger Dryas cool period, but that its few survivors taught agriculture, monumental architecture and astronomy to primitive hunter-gatherers around the world.
It is also thermally tolerant and is found in cool-water environments, mild environments as well as tropical warm-water.
Pterygotus had also been designated as containing two subgenera; Pterygotus (Curviramus) and Pterygotus (Erettopterus), but Erettopterus would later be raised to its own genus.
They proposed that these rocks be regarded as the standard to which other rocks thought to be of this age are compared.
Magicians of the Gods: The Forgotten Wisdom of Earth's Lost Civilisation is a 2015 book by British pseudoarchaeology writer Graham Hancock, published by Thomas Dunne Books in the United States and by Coronet in the United Kingdom.
See also Archaeology and racism Legends of the Lost with Megan Fox, a 2018 documentary series References Further reading Hartlep, Michael (8 December 2022).
The Scollard strata span the K-Pg boundary, therefore the lower member of the Scollard provides a record of the last of the dinosaurs, while the upper member records the dawn of the Age of Mammals after the K-Pg extinction event.
Unlike the non-African populations, there is no consensus as to the cause of the African bottleneck.
Most lingering agnathan (jawless fish) groups, such as osteostracans, galeaspids, and heterostracans, also went extinct by the end of the Frasnian.
Increased sulphate flux from volcanism caused an increase in hydrogen sulphide production, which in turn increased phosphorus availability in the water column by inhibiting its burial on the seafloor and enabled the development of anoxia.
Immediately after the CPE, hyperodapedontines were widespread and abundant in the late Carnian world, suggesting that they benefited from the climate fluctuations or floral turnover.
There were four or more separate basaltic flows during this cycle, with thickness ranges of 140 to 600 m (460 to 2,000 ft).
Some critics of the impact theory have put forward that the impact precedes the mass extinction by about 300,000 years and thus was not its cause.
It coincided with a global drop in sea level, and is closely followed by an excursion in geochemical isotopes.
Multiple LIPs have been implicated as causes of the rapid global warming responsible for the onset of OAE1a, including the High Arctic Large Igneous Province (HALIP), the Kerguelen Plateau, and the Ontong Java Plateau.
An element of the paradigm of the Grande Coupure was the apparent extinction of all European primates at the Grande Coupure.
The Shuram excursion occurred around the same time as the boundary between the White Sea and Nama assemblages.
As the balance shifts between the global cryosphere and hydrosphere, more of the planet's water in ice sheets means less in the oceans.
Fossils have been found from Argentina of Late Cretaceous age from the Bajo de la Carpa Formation (dating back to the Santonian), the Pichi Picun Leufu Formation (dating back to the Coniacian and Santonian).
Recent research observed geochemical cyclicity in clastic rocks, showing that the snowball periods were punctuated by warm spells, similar to ice age cycles in recent Earth history.
The concentration of U238 decay products in impact glasses from the crater were used to derive an age of 65.04 ± 1.10 million years.
With the start of the Paleogene, mammals, reptiles - including lizards, snakes, turtles and crocodiles and their relatives, among others - and birds inherit the planet, beginning the age of mammals that persists to the present day.
Distribution The Scollard Formation is present in the subsurface throughout much of southwestern Alberta, and it outcrops extensively along the banks of the Red Deer River in the area of Trochu.
Spore availability Fern spikes cannot occur without ferns already existing in the area, so spikes occur primarily in regions where ferns are already a prominent part of the ecosystem.
A leading model of climate cooling at this time predicts a decrease in atmospheric carbon dioxide, which slowly declined over the course of the Middle to Late Eocene.
Upon analysis of conodont history, it is evident that while P elements vary among conodonts, the S-M array is essentially conserved for over 250 million years.
Anoxia and euxinia Anoxia was another mechanism of extinction; the end-Triassic extinction was coeval with an uptick in black shale deposition and a pronounced negative δ238U excursion, indicating a major decrease in marine oxygen availability.
Others, however, have argued that Rhuddanian anoxia was simply part of the second pulse, which according to this view was longer and more drawn out than most authors suggest.
Proposed by Luis and Walter Alvarez, it is now widely accepted that the extinction was caused by a huge asteroid or bolide that impacted Earth in the shallow seas of the Gulf of Mexico, leaving behind the Chicxulub crater.
These continental clastic rocks are thought to be of Triassic-to-Jurassic age, although they may extend into the Lower Cretaceous.
In the mid to late Triassic, the dinosaurs evolved from one group of archosaurs, and went on to dominate terrestrial ecosystems during the Jurassic and Cretaceous.
The motion of the Indian tectonic plate and the eruptive history of the Deccan traps show strong correlations.
Fossil sites Many fossil sites around the world reflect the changing conditions of the Carboniferous rainforest collapse.
Due to positive feedback for melting, the eventual melting of the snow and ice covering most of Earth's surface would require as little as a millennium.
Rather than one star for every brown dwarf, there may be as many as six stars for every brown dwarf.
Tanis is an extraordinary and unique site because it appears to record the events from the first minutes until a few hours after the impact of the giant Chicxulub asteroid in extreme detail.
This result was presented at the April 2007 annual meeting of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists Underhill then focused his research attention upon understanding why the salt moves where it does when it does and why the so-called crater took the form that it did.
Trilobites Trilobites were hit hard by both phases of the extinction, with about 70% of genera and 50% of families going extinct between the Katian and Silurian.
Deep-water anoxia and euxinia would impact deep-water benthic fauna, as expected for the first pulse of extinction.
Evidence used by proponents of the Tollmann's bolide hypothesis to argue for catastrophic Holocene extinctions have alternative explanations by more frequently occurring geological processes.
Extinction: The Facts is a 2020 documentary film by the natural historian David Attenborough which aired on the BBC.
Geochemistry Subsequent to the first extinctions, excursions in the δ13C and δ18O records are observed; δ13C rises from +1.4‰ to +4.5‰, while δ18O increases from −5.6‰ to −5.0‰.
After the event, conodont abundance surged during the interval of biotic recovery from the Šilalė mass rarity.
At Tanis, unlike any other known Lagerstätte site, it appears specific circumstances allowed for the preservation of moment-by-moment details caused by the impact event.
Leaf analysis of the Genesee flora estimated mean annual temperature at 11 °C (52 °F) with a cold month mean temperature of 2.4 °C (36.3 °F).
In the case of the kākāpō, a critically endangered New Zealand parrot, the sole means of defense against predators is crypsis, involving minimal movement.
The corresponding time period, referred to as the Marinoan Epoch, spanned from the middle Cryogenian to the top of the Ediacaran in modern terminology.
Further shallowing across the Julian-Tuvalian boundary left only a few aberrant limnocytherids (Renngartenella, Simeonella) and cytherurids (Kerocythere) which could manage severe salinity fluctuations in the restricted coastal basins.
In Beringia, megafauna may have gone extinct because of particularly intense paludification and because the land connection between Eurasia and North America flooded before the Cordilleran Ice Sheet retreated far enough to reopen the corridor between Beringia and the remainder of North America.
Evidence points to the glaciation of Antarctica occurring in two steps, with the first step, the less pronounced and more modest step of the two, taking place at the Eocene-Oligocene boundary itself.
The Rajmahal Traps is a volcanic igneous province in Eastern India, covering the parts of Jharkhand, West Bengal and Meghalaya.
The authors of the paper suggested that the impact may have disrupted recovery after the K/Pg extinction.
The Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary occurs in the lower part of the formation, and an exposure of the boundary layer has been identified and documented on South Table Mountain near the city of Golden.
Sunella has often been suggested to be closely related to Isoxys, a genus of Cambrian arthropods with a superficially similar bivalved carapace, though true understanding of Sunella's affinities was for a long time hampered by poor knowledge of its soft tissue.
The Couches de Saint Christophe occupy the following nappes: External Valais Moûtiers unit Roc de l'Enfer unit Petit St.
Unlike the Grande Coupure, which took place via Central and Northern Asia, this later dispersal occurred via a southern corridor.
The Huronian glaciation broadly coincides with the Great Oxygenation Event, a time of increased atmospheric oxygen and decreased atmospheric methane.
Overall, the biotic effects of OAE1a were comparatively minor relative to other LIP-driven extinction events.
The Chota Formation is an Early Campanian to Late Eocene geologic formation of the Cajamarca and western Amazonas Region in northern Peru.
These rings give the crater a somewhat similar appearance to Valhalla crater on Jupiter's moon Callisto, and other craters on Europa.
In addition, possible associated release of deep sea methane clathrates has been potentially implicated as yet another cause of global warming.
See also Death drive Fermi paradox Future of Earth § Climate impact References External links Ward, Peter.
Cenozoic aged fossils unearthed here consist of mammals like multituberculates, barylambdids, and insectivores, as well as alligatorids like Bottosaurus.
Olson's Extinction represents the third highest peak of extinction rates seen in plants throughout the Paleozoic, and the number of genera fell by 25%.
Regressions are, therefore, seen as correlates or symptoms of major extinctions, rather than primary causes.
Island species are especially sensitive to these factors, with 95% of bird extinctions since the late 15th century being native to islands.
Geochemical analyses CAMP lava flows of North America can be geochemically separated in three units: the older ones are classified as high titanium quartz normative (HTQ) basalts (TiO2 = 1.0-1.3 wt%), followed by lava flows classified as low titanium quartz normative (LTQ) basalts (TiO2 = ca.
A major regression could cause marine organisms in shallow seas to go extinct, but mass extinctions tend to involve both terrestrial and aquatic species, and it is harder to see how a marine regression could cause widespread extinctions of land animals.
Description The three glacial diamictite-bearing units of the Huronian are, from the oldest to youngest, the Ramsay Lake, Bruce, and Gowganda formations.
This includes the understanding of crater fill mechanics and chronology, as well as satellite effects such as resurge, pyroclastic explosions, landslides, and more.
Causes While often impacted by many factors simultaneously, habitat loss, exploitation, and invasive species are the greatest influences on avian extinction.
A release on this scale would increase the methane content of the planet's atmosphere by a factor of twelve, equivalent in greenhouse effect to a doubling in the 2008 level of CO2.
Environmental tolerance After the eruption of El Chichón, the fern Pityrogramma calomelanos was observed to regenerate from rhizomes buried by ash, even though the plants' leaves were destroyed.
In paleontology, a fern spike is the occurrence of unusually high spore abundance of ferns in the fossil record, usually immediately (in a geological sense) after an extinction event.
It was probably deposited around the intertidal zone, as the sedimentary rocks of this formation alternate according to sea level changes between deposits of muddy beaches and of shallow ocean.
The negative δ13C excursion preceding the OAE, occurring in the C3 isotopic interval, is believed to reflect volcanic release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and its consequent warming of the Earth.
The confusion of the terms glaciation and ice age has led to the more recent impression that the entire time period represents a single glacial event.
The theory that all Ediacarans became extinct at the start of the Cambrian is disproven if any post-Ediacaran survivors are found.
Classification Habrosaurus is a sister taxa to both Pseudobranchus and Siren which are the only genera in the family Sirenidae.
In 2008 Sahney and Benton confirmed that this was not just a turnover (gradual replacement of one faunal complex by another) but a real extinction event in which a significant drop in the biodiversity of tetrapods on a global scale and community level occurred.
Hawaiian honeycreeper populations are harmed by avian malaria, and its spread to these birds correlates with the arrival of the invasive southern house mosquito, a known avian malaria vector.
Acritarchs and prasinophytes suffered no extinction during the crisis, although their relative frequencies and abundances did vary over the course of the extinction event as marine environments were perturbed.
Thus, while supporting the extinction periodicity, it appears to be inconsistent with the Nemesis hypothesis, though of course not inconsistent with other kinds of substellar objects.
Causes Volcanic activity, particularly that of large igneous provinces, has been speculated to have been the cause of the environmental crisis.
Nannoconids that were highly calcified suffered significant decline during OAE1a, likely as a consequence of ocean acidification, although this causal relationship is disputed by other authors.
Critical to an assessment of the validity of the theory, therefore, is an understanding of the reliability and significance of the evidence that led to the belief that ice ever reached the tropics.
Climate During the Maastrichtian, Seymour Island was located just outside the Antarctic polar circle at around ~64°S latitude.
The sediments were eroded from the Canadian Cordillera, and were transported eastward by river systems and deposited in fluvial channel and floodplain environments.
The Tethys Ocean experienced an increase in humidity at the beginning of OAE1a, while conditions around the Boreal Ocean were initially dry and only humidified later on during the OAE.
The San Francisquito Formation is a geologic formation located in northern Los Angeles County, California.
Multiple reports have described evidence for climatic changes in Antarctica prior to the mass extinction, but the extent to which these affected marine biodiversity is debated.
CNN's Anderson Cooper, Sanjay Gupta and Animal Planet's Jeff Corwin investigate the current state of our planet, focusing on four major areas: global warming, overpopulation, deforestation and species loss.
An object 120 m (390 ft) across smashing into the sea at many kilometers per second would generate enormous tsunamis.
Olson's Extinction is a hypothesised mass extinction that occurred around 273 million years ago in the late Cisuralian or early Guadalupian epoch of the Permian period, predating the much larger Permian–Triassic extinction event.
Their affiliation is, however, poorly secured, mostly based on vertebrae descriptions from only a few fossils.
All three had been declining since the Taghanic event at the end of the Givetian, which also killed off the order Lichida.
Description Cynodontosuchus was the first non-Cenozoic sebecosuchian to be described, being assigned to the suborder in 1896 by Arthur Smith Woodward.
It is classified as a pan-dermatemydid due to the contact between the inguinal buttress and the eighth peripheral bone.
Mantle xenoliths have been described from Kachchh (northwestern India) and elsewhere in the western Deccan and contain spinel lherzolite and pyroxenite constituents.
The Caledonian Mountains were also growing across what is now the Scottish Highlands and Scandinavia, while the Appalachians rose over America.
Evidence also exists for the development of anoxia (a loss of oxygen) in some environments in the oceans.
Nigeremys ("Niger turtle") is an extinct genus of bothremydid pleurodiran turtle from Niger, Mali and Syria.
It was retracted in 2025 by Scientific Reports and was the second retraction by the publication from CRG members.
Marine life Radiolarians increased in their diversity, likely as a result of increased continental weathering amidst the warmth and humidity of the CPE.
The second peak’s start is close to the base of the ludensis-gerhardi graptolite biozone, during the recovery interval.
Beneath the bivalved carapace was a segmented trunk made up of 8 segments, each of which likely had attached one pair of biramous (two-branched) limbs, composed of a stenopodous (stout) endopod (lower leg-like branch) with at least 7 segments (podomeres) and flap-like exopods (upper branches).
The depositional environment included tidally influenced meandering rivers, anastomosed distributary channels, crevasse splays, levees, lakes, ponds, and mires.
The recovery of the global climate from the injection of large amounts of isotopically light carbon lasted for over a million years.
Other Volcanic activity has also been promoted as a possible cause of the cat gap as well as other extinctions during this time period.
Orbit of Sedna The trans-Neptunian object Sedna has an extra-long and unusual elliptical orbit around the Sun, ranging between 76 and 937 AU.
The effect on living creatures even hundreds of kilometers away was immense, and much of present-day Mexico and the United States would have been devastated.
Extinctions The Taghanic event at the Givetian/Frasnian boundary caused many extinctions, including the disappearance of about 50% of coral genera.
This type of animal is called a disaster taxon, an organism that survives a major environmental disruption, perhaps forming the basis for a new adaptive radiation.
These faulted contacts, along with the Damodar Gondwana graben, form a triple junction at the mouth of the Bengal basin.
Agomphus can be distinguished from other pan-dermatemydids by its short axillary buttresses, a highly domed shell (carapace), and broad neural bones.
This theory was later substantiated by other evidence, including the eventual discovery of the impact crater, known as Chicxulub, on the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico.
Even before OAE2, during the late Cenomanian, tropical sea surface temperatures (SSTs) were very warm, about 27-29 °C.
Modern ruminant herbivores produce methane as a byproduct of foregut fermentation in digestion, and release it through belching or flatulence.
It was declared extinct in 1914, upon the death of the last known survivor of the species, Martha, at the Cincinnati Zoo, 20 years after the species became extinct in the wild.
Trigonia is an extinct genus of saltwater clams, fossil marine bivalve mollusk in the family Trigoniidae.
Radiolarians suffered major losses due to a decrease in nutrient availability in deep and intermediate waters.
It is Earth's most severe known extinction event, with the extinction of 57% of biological families, 62% of genera, 81% of marine species, and 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species.
This event may have fragmented the forests into isolated refugia or ecological "islands", which in turn encouraged dwarfism and, shortly after, extinction of many plant and animal species.
It also aired as a special presentation on December 2 and 3, 2007 on Animal Planet & Animal Planet HD.
Catastrophe is a five-part British documentary television series telling the story of the catastrophic events that shaped planet Earth.
The crater is estimated to be over 150 km (93 mi) in diameter and 20 km (12 mi) in depth, well into the continental crust of the region of about 10–30 km (6.2–18.6 mi) depth.
Nitrogen isotopes during the anoxic event record-high rates of denitrification, a biological process which depletes nitrates.
As is seen with regularity in species with abundant food and no predators on an isolated island, their descendants evolved per their environment.
Sediments Old Red Sandstone continent sediments have been studied to evaluate the Taghanic extinction event.
They focused on the extinction intensity of fossil families of marine vertebrates, invertebrates, and protozoans, identifying 12 extinction events over the time period in question.
The heavier 53Cr is oxidized preferentially over the lighter 52Cr, and the soluble oxidized chromium carried into the ocean shows this enhancement of the heavier isotope.
The larger extinction was the Kellwasser Event (Frasnian-Famennian, or F-F, 372 Ma), an extinction event at the end of the Frasnian, about midway through the Late Devonian.
They are one of the largest volcanic features on Earth, with lava erupted from multiple volcanic centres.
On February 15, 2023, the following editor's note was posted on this paper: "Readers are alerted that concerns raised about the data presented and the conclusions of this article are being considered by the Editors.
This paper also suggested annual temperature variability of 5 °C (41 °F) based on Belemnite growth bands, perhaps in agreement with another study which has suggested that sea surface temperatures may have possibly dropped below freezing and formed sea ice at times.
In 1859, his colleague William Dawson discovered the oldest known reptile-ancestor, Hylonomus lyelli, and since then hundreds more skeletons have been found, including the oldest synapsid, Protoclepsydrops.
The basement forms part of the Maya Block and information about its makeup and age in the Yucatán area has come only from drilling results around the Chicxulub crater and the analysis of basement material found as part of the ejecta at more distant K–Pg boundary sites.
This hypothesis proposes that the Sun may have an undetected companion star in a highly elliptical orbit that periodically disturbs comets in the Oort cloud, causing a large increase of the number of comets visiting the inner Solar System with a consequential increase of impact events on Earth.
Although there are other glacial deposits recognized throughout the world at this time, the Huronian is restricted to the region north of Lake Huron, between Sault Ste.
Pelagic cephalopods, other than a drop in overall abundance, were unaffected by the biotic crisis, and saw no meaningful decrease in diversity.
Major orogenic event in Australia: Isan Orogeny influences Mount Isa Block of Queensland – major deposits of lead, silver, copper and zinc are laid down.
Thoracosaurus (chest lizard) is an extinct genus of long-snouted eusuchian which existed during the Late Cretaceous and Early Paleocene in North America and Europe.
Sources include sediment that has been accumulating in a lake since the event of interest and sedimentary rocks such as sandstone.
See also List of prehistoric bony fish genera References Further reading Fossils (Smithsonian Handbooks) by David Ward (Page 215)
It is divided into two subgroups, the Lower Gosau Subgroup which dates from the Turonian to Campanian, approximately 90 to 75 Ma and the Upper Gosau Subgroup which dates to the Santonian to Eocene, about 83.5 to 50 Ma.
The glacial diamictite deposits within the Huronian are on par in thickness with Quaternary analogs.
Phylogenetic analysis has proposed them as being related to the extant file snakes (family Acrochordidae), although these results have been disputed since, and new analysis show this relationship as poorly supported.
He links this to the construction of various ancient monuments, including Göbekli Tepe, Baalbek, the Great Sphinx and the Pyramids of Giza, some of which Hancock claims to be much older than mainstream archaeologists determined.
The gene which selects for earlier birth has increased in the population because those with the gene have more calves over their lifetime.
Euclastes is an extinct genus of sea turtles that survived the Cretaceous–Paleogene mass extinction.
Modeling on an emission of 8.5×1014 g of sulfur, which is 100 times the 1991 Pinatubo sulphur, volcanic winter has a maximum global mean cooling of 3.5 °C (6.3 °F) and returns gradually within the range of natural variability 5 years after the eruption.
Its age is between about 70 and 66 million years, which puts it in the Maastrichtian, a stage that was named after the formation.
Clark (1974) proposed that Hindeodus was most abundant in nutrient-deficient deep waters of normal salinity, but some may have been in shallow water as well.
The End-Ediacaran extinction, also called the Kotlin Crisis, is a mass extinction believed to have occurred near the end of the Ediacaran period, the final period of the Proterozoic eon.
It was formed at or near the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary about 66 mya around the same time as the Chicxulub crater.
It depicts the continuing sixth mass extinction, caused by humans, and the consequences of biodiversity loss and climate change.
The hypercarnivorous nimravid feliforms were extinct in North America after 26 Ma and felids did not arrive in North America until the Middle Miocene with the appearance of Pseudaelurus.
The eruptive volume is between two and six million cubic kilometres, making it one of the most voluminous eruptions in Earth's history.
The authors suggested that even a significantly accelerated methane release would still largely fail to reach the atmosphere.
The Marinoan glaciation, sometimes also known as the Varanger glaciation, was a period of worldwide glaciation.
It consists of sedimentary rocks that were deposited in nonmarine to brackish water environments between the Canadian Rockies in the west and the Western Interior Seaway to the east.
Volcanism was excluded because there were no magnetic anomalies in the crater, which would be expected if eruptions had occurred there.
West argued that Marlon's radiocarbon dating calibration was wrong, which Marlon dismissed due to her use of multiple sites, none of which showed any spike as required by YDIH.
A sequel to Hancock's Fingerprints of the Gods (1995), the book builds on the premise that a highly advanced "lost civilisation" operated in prehistory but was destroyed in a global catastrophe.
Evidence for this period is found in Enorama Creek and other areas in the Ikara-Flinders Ranges National Park, in the Flinders Ranges of South Australia.
Stratigraphy The Denver Formation rests on the Arapahoe Formation, and its base is marked by the first appearance of tuffaceous sediments.
1–4, retrieved 2017-06-05 Weishampel, David B.; Dodson, Peter; Osmólska, Halszka (2004), The Dinosauria, 2nd edition, Berkeley: University of California Press, pp.
The fossil remains of Coniophis were first discovered at the end of the 19th century in the Lance Formation of the US state of Wyoming, and were described in 1892 by Othniel Charles Marsh.
However, the East Siberian Arctic Shelf averages 45 meters in depth, and it is assumed that below the seafloor, sealed by sub-sea permafrost layers, hydrates deposits are located.
The OAE is associated with large igneous province volcanism and an extinction event of marine organisms driven by global warming, ocean acidification, and anoxia.
However, it was found in 2021 that each square meter of coral reef area contains about 30 individual corals, and their total number is estimated at half a trillion - equivalent to all the trees in the Amazon, or all the birds in the world.
However, because it is rare in any case for animals and plants to be fossilized, the fossil record leaves some major questions unanswered.
Specimens of Lystrosaurus individuals have been found preserved in burrows, suggesting that they were habitually fossorial, and were capable of constructing burrows relatively early in life.
The abundances of these algal groups are strongly related to the increase of both the oxygen deficiency in the water column and the total content of organic carbon.
They had determined that a 10-to-15-kilometer-wide (6 to 9 mi) asteroid hurtled into Earth at roughly (34,000 mph) into Chicxulub on Mexico's Yucatán Peninsula.
Methodologies using oxygen-18 isotope values from fossil vertebrate remains to estimate average meteoric water temperature have estimated a mean annual temperature near or just above 0 °C (32 °F).
Mawson recognised a glacial episode within the Marinoan Epoch which he referred to as the Elatina glaciation after the Elatina Tillite (now Elatina Formation) where he found the evidence.
Popular perception is that one or more of the glaciations may have been snowball Earth events, when all or most of Earth's surface was covered in ice.
Orthophragminid foraminifera (late Paleocene–early Eocene larger benthic foraminifera of two families, Discocyclinidae and Orbitoclypeidae) disappeared in the extinction event; in Alpine carbonates, bryozoan facies show an expansion in response to the loss of orthophragminids.
Formations that are stratigraphically equivalent in the western United States are the Horsethief Formation in Montana; the Fox Hills Formation and Lance Formation in Montana; and the Lennup Formation and Muteetse Formation in Wyoming.
The Stewart–Walker lemma provides necessary and sufficient conditions for the linear perturbation of a tensor field to be gauge-invariant.
W = L λ = 2 10 = 0.2 {\displaystyle W={\frac {L}{\lambda }}={\frac {2}{10}}=0.2} We can even apply Little's Law to the counter itself.
Hence d ( x 0 , x ′ ) < r {\displaystyle d(x_{0},x')<r} by the triangle inequality, which implies that A n q ⊂ U α 0 {\displaystyle A_{n_{q}}\subset U_{\alpha _{0}}} .
Applications As mentioned before, the Algorithmic Version of the Lovász Local Lemma applies to most problems for which the general Lovász Local Lemma is used as a proof technique.
Notes References External links Favorite Theorems: Unique Witnesses by Lance Fortnow The Isolation Lemma and Beyond by Richard J.
When the water reaches elevation a {\displaystyle a} , the underwater surface is M a = def f − 1 ( − ∞ , a ] {\displaystyle M^{a}\,{\stackrel {\text{def}}{=}}\,f^{-1}(-\infty ,a]} , the points with elevation a {\displaystyle a} or below.
Assume that a primitive nth root of unity ζ n ∈ O k , {\displaystyle \zeta _{n}\in {\mathcal {O}}_{k},} and that n and p {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {p}}} are coprime (i.e.
Calderón–Zygmund decomposition Given f as above, we may write f as the sum of a "good" function g and a "bad" function b, f = g + b.
For example, that force may be the gravity, when f {\displaystyle f} is a constant function (since the gravitational force is the same at all points).
{\displaystyle w(S)=\sum _{x\in S}w(x)\,.} Then, with probability at least 1 − n / N {\displaystyle 1-n/N} , there is a unique set in F {\displaystyle {\mathcal {F}}} that has the minimum weight among all sets of F {\displaystyle {\mathcal {F}}} .
The W p m ( Ω ) {\displaystyle \textstyle W_{p}^{m}(\Omega )} norm is not the usual one but the terms are scaled with d {\displaystyle \textstyle d} so that the right-hand inequality in the equivalence of the seminorms comes out exactly as in the statement here.
Bramble and Stephen Hilbert, bounds the error of an approximation of a function u {\displaystyle \textstyle u} by a polynomial of order at most m − 1 {\displaystyle \textstyle m-1} in terms of derivatives of u {\displaystyle \textstyle u} of order m {\displaystyle \textstyle m} .
A first proof uses the definition of E p ( x ) {\displaystyle E_{p}(x)} and Dwork's lemma, which says that a power series f ( x ) {\displaystyle f(x)} with rational coefficients has p {\displaystyle p} -integral coefficients if and only if f ( x p ) f ( x ) p ≡ 1 mod p Z p [ [ x ] ] .
Then lim sup ξ → ± ∞ | f ^ ( ξ ) | ≤ lim sup ξ → ± ∞ | ∫ ( f ( x ) − g ( x ) ) e − i x ξ d x | + lim sup ξ → ± ∞ | ∫ g ( x ) e − i x ξ d x | ≤ ε + 0 = ε .
This property gives actually an equivalent form for the theorem (except for the value of the constant).
First, we reformulate the statement of the lemma to ( 1 N ∑ i ∈ I ∖ I N | a i | q ) 1 / q ≤ ( 1 N ∑ j ∈ I | a j | p ) 1 / p .
Under this correspondence, Dickson's lemma may be seen as a special case of Hilbert's basis theorem stating that every polynomial ideal has a finite basis, for the ideals generated by monomials.
{\displaystyle Y.} In fact, a relatively open map is a strongly open map if and only if its image is an open subset of its codomain.
For all x ′ ∈ A n q {\displaystyle x'\in A_{n_{q}}} , notice that: d ( x n q , x ′ ) ≤ diam ⁡ ( A n q ) < r 2 {\displaystyle d(x_{n_{q}},x')\leq \operatorname {diam} (A_{n_{q}})<{\frac {r}{2}}} , because n q ≥ M {\displaystyle n_{q}\geq M} .
The colorful name of the lemma comes from imagining the graph of the function g as a mountainous landscape, with the sun shining horizontally from the right.
{\displaystyle \displaystyle {\|\int _{X}T(x)v\,d\mu (x)\|\leq {\sqrt {AB}}\cdot \|v\|.}} The result can be proven by replacing sums with integrals in the previous proof, or by utilizing Riemann sums to approximate the integrals.
The jump part of g {\displaystyle g} is g ( t ) − g ( t − ) = h ( t ) d t ∫ Δ g Δ g η g ( ⋅ ) d Δ g + d J g ( t ) .
Nakayama, Tadasi (1951), "A remark on finitely generated modules", Nagoya Mathematical Journal, 3: 139–140, doi:10.1017/s0027763000012265, ISSN 0027-7630, MR 0043770.
(Here, "of finite type" means "finitely generated algebra" and "finite" means "finitely generated module".) The lemma was introduced by E.
It is an important tool in algebraic geometry, because it allows local data on algebraic varieties, in the form of modules over local rings, to be studied pointwise as vector spaces over the residue field of the ring.
Finite-dimensional range: Any continuous surjective linear map L : X → Y {\displaystyle L:X\to Y} with a Hausdorff finite-dimensional range is an open map and thus a topological homomorphism.
However, Dickson's lemma concerns only tuples of natural numbers, and over the natural numbers there are only finitely many minimal pairs.
Data reordering, bit reversal, and in-place algorithms Although the abstract Cooley–Tukey factorization of the DFT, above, applies in some form to all implementations of the algorithm, much greater diversity exists in the techniques for ordering and accessing the data at each stage of the FFT.
{\displaystyle \bigcup _{n=1}^{\infty }A_{n}\in D.} To be clear, this property also holds for finite sequences A 1 , … , A n {\displaystyle A_{1},\ldots ,A_{n}} of pairwise disjoint sets (by letting A i := ∅ {\displaystyle A_{i}:=\varnothing } for all i > n {\displaystyle i>n} ).
Lemma Suppose that ℓ {\displaystyle \textstyle \ell } is a continuous linear functional on W p m ( Ω ) {\displaystyle \textstyle W_{p}^{m}(\Omega )} and ‖ ℓ ‖ W p m ( Ω ) ′ {\displaystyle \textstyle \left\Vert \ell \right\Vert _{W_{p}^{m}(\Omega )^{^{\prime }}}} its dual norm.
In mathematics, Abhyankar's lemma (named after Shreeram Shankar Abhyankar) allows one to kill tame ramification by taking an extension of a base field.
There exists a neighborhood U of Λ with the following property: for any δ > 0 there exists ε > 0, such that any (finite or infinite) ε-pseudo-orbit that stays in U also stays in a δ-neighborhood of some true orbit.
See also Banach–Alaoglu theorem – Theorem in functional analysis Bishop–Phelps theorem Eberlein–Šmulian theorem – Relates three different kinds of weak compactness in a Banach space James's theorem – Theorem in mathematics Goldstine theorem References Renardy, Michael & Rogers, Robert C.
The first upper bound for this problem was proven (for d = 1 and d = 2) in 1938 by John Edensor Littlewood and A.
A controlled vector field has a continuous flow (despite the fact that a controlled vector field is discontinuous).
Although the exact value of F(X) is not known for any two-dimensional convex X, much work was devoted to establishing upper and lower bounds in various classes of shapes.
Indeed, for any non-Noetherian ring A we can define an A-algebra structure on C = A ⊕ A {\displaystyle C=A\oplus A} by declaring ( a , x ) ( b , y ) = ( a b , b x + a y ) {\displaystyle (a,x)(b,y)=(ab,bx+ay)} .
Since X {\displaystyle X} is sequentially compact, there exists a subsequence { x n k } {\displaystyle \{x_{n_{k}}\}} (with k ∈ Z > 0 {\displaystyle k\in \mathbb {Z} _{>0}} ) that converges to x 0 {\displaystyle x_{0}} .
An assignment (evaluation) to all random variables is denoted ( v P ) P {\displaystyle (v_{P})_{\mathcal {P}}} .
The lemma is named after Issai Schur who used it to prove the Schur orthogonality relations and develop the basics of the representation theory of finite groups.
The last equality is true because γ {\displaystyle \gamma } is a geodesic, therefore γ ′ {\displaystyle \gamma '} is parallel.
Statement Recall that a topological vector space (TVS) X {\displaystyle X} is Hausdorff if and only if the singleton set { 0 } {\displaystyle \{0\}} consisting entirely of the origin is a closed subset of X .
Define the maximal function f ∗ {\displaystyle f^{*}} by setting for every x {\displaystyle x} (using the convention ∞ × 0 = 0 {\displaystyle \infty \times 0=0} ) f ∗ ( x ) = sup r > 0 ( μ ( B ( x , r ) ) − 1 ∫ B ( x , r ) | f ( y ) | d μ ( y ) ) .
Roughly stated, the theorem says that if a formula φ implies a formula ψ, and the two have at least one atomic variable symbol in common, then there is a formula ρ, called an interpolant, such that every non-logical symbol in ρ occurs both in φ and ψ, φ implies ρ, and ρ implies ψ.
Since almost surely t ∗ = lim sup S N = X 1 + lim sup ∑ n = 2 N X n = X 1 + t ∗ {\displaystyle t^{*}=\limsup S_{N}=X_{1}+\limsup \sum _{n=2}^{N}X_{n}=X_{1}+t^{*}} and X1 is not a.s.
Normalizing the measure space to 1, it becomes a probability space and the measure P ( A ) {\displaystyle P(A)} of its set A {\displaystyle A} represents the probability of finding the system in the states represented by the points of that set.
Applications Graph counting lemma If we have enough information about the regularity of a graph, we can count the number of copies of a specific subgraph within the graph up to small error.
Since the maps t ↦ f ( s , t ) {\displaystyle t\mapsto f(s,t)} are geodesics, ∂ ∂ t ⟨ ∂ f ∂ t , ∂ f ∂ s ⟩ = ⟨ D ∂ t ∂ f ∂ t ⏟ = 0 , ∂ f ∂ s ⟩ + ⟨ ∂ f ∂ t , D ∂ t ∂ f ∂ s ⟩ = ⟨ ∂ f ∂ t , D ∂ s ∂ f ∂ t ⟩ = 1 2 ∂ ∂ s ⟨ ∂ f ∂ t , ∂ f ∂ t ⟩ .
There is a Fodor's lemma for trees: Fodor's lemma also holds for Thomas Jech's notion of stationary sets as well as for the general notion of stationary set.
For example, the Dirac delta function distribution formally has a finite integral over the real line, but its Fourier transform is a constant and does not vanish at infinity.
This construction can be perturbed to a ring of n {\displaystyle n} finite circles, without additional tangencies, whose minimum radius is arbitrarily close to this bound.
Since T v T p M ≅ T p M ≅ R n {\displaystyle T_{v}T_{p}M\cong T_{p}M\cong \mathbb {R} ^{n}} , we can put α ( t ) := v ( t + 1 ) {\displaystyle \alpha (t):=v(t+1)} .
In symbols, E ⁡ ( A ) = [ GL ⁡ ( A ) , GL ⁡ ( A ) ] {\displaystyle \operatorname {E} (A)=[\operatorname {GL} (A),\operatorname {GL} (A)]} .
Proof of the graphon counting lemma: It suffices to prove | t ( F , W ) − t ( F , U ) | ≤ | E ( F ) | ‖ W − U ‖ ◻ .
For a vertex x ∈ X i {\displaystyle x\in X_{i}} , let V x {\displaystyle V_{x}} denote V i {\displaystyle V_{i}} .
In mathematical analysis, the rising sun lemma is a lemma due to Frigyes Riesz, used in the proof of the Hardy–Littlewood maximal theorem.
Now assume that n ≥ 0 {\displaystyle n\geq 0} and that the sets U ( k / 2 n ) {\displaystyle U\left(k/2^{n}\right)} and V ( k / 2 n ) {\displaystyle V\left(k/2^{n}\right)} have already been constructed for k ∈ { 1 , … , 2 n − 1 } {\displaystyle k\in \{1,\ldots ,2^{n}-1\}} .
{\displaystyle H.} Let f : U → R {\displaystyle f:U\to \mathbb {R} } be a ( k + 2 ) {\displaystyle (k+2)} -times continuously differentiable function with k ≥ 1 ; {\displaystyle k\geq 1;} that is, f ∈ C k + 2 ( U ; R ) .
In mathematics, the Riemann–Lebesgue lemma, named after Bernhard Riemann and Henri Lebesgue, states that the Fourier transform or Laplace transform of an L1 function vanishes at infinity.
{\displaystyle {\begin{bmatrix}u&0\\0&u^{-1}\end{bmatrix}}=e_{21}(u^{-1})e_{12}(1-u)e_{21}(-1)e_{12}(1-u^{-1}).} Here, e i j ( s ) {\displaystyle e_{ij}(s)} indicates a matrix whose diagonal block is 1 {\displaystyle 1} and i j {\displaystyle ij} -th entry is s {\displaystyle s} .
In statistics, the Robbins lemma, named after Herbert Robbins, states that if X is a random variable having a Poisson distribution with parameter λ, and f is any function for which the expected value E(f(X)) exists, then E ⁡ ( X f ( X − 1 ) ) = λ E ⁡ ( f ( X ) ) .
Thus it's important to use all integers mod n and not just the units mod n to define the right permutation.) When n = p is an odd prime and a is not divisible by p, multiplication by a fixes 0 mod p, so the sign of multiplication by a on all numbers mod p and on the units mod p have the same sign.
Similarly exists t ∗ ∈ [ − ∞ , ∞ ] {\displaystyle t_{*}\in [-\infty ,\infty ]} such that lim inf S n = t ∗ {\displaystyle \liminf S_{n}=t_{*}} almost surely.
In the original result, the choice of the polynomial is not specified, and the value of constant and its dependence on the domain Ω {\displaystyle \textstyle \Omega } cannot be determined from the proof.
The Lax–Milgram theorem, named after Peter Lax and Arthur Milgram who proved it in 1954, provides weak formulations for certain systems on Hilbert spaces.
In particular, we have that either ker ⁡ ( f ) = M {\displaystyle \ker(f)=M} , meaning that f {\displaystyle f} is the zero morphism, or that ker ⁡ ( f ) = 0 {\displaystyle \ker(f)=0} , meaning that f {\displaystyle f} is injective.
A version of the degree sum formula also applies to finite families of sets or, equivalently, multigraphs: the sum of the degrees of the elements (where the degree equals the number of sets containing it) always equals the sum of the cardinalities of the sets.
{\displaystyle x\in \mathrm {ker} (f^{k})+f^{k}(y)\subseteq \mathrm {ker} (f^{k})+\mathrm {im} (f^{k}).} Consequently, M {\displaystyle M} is the direct sum of i m ( f k ) {\displaystyle \mathrm {im} (f^{k})} and k e r ( f k ) {\displaystyle \mathrm {ker} (f^{k})} .
If X is countable, the Rasiowa–Sikorski lemma yields a D-generic filter F and thus a function F: X → Y.
In mathematics, Spijker's lemma is a result in the theory of rational mappings of the Riemann sphere.
When dealing with the Lebesgue measure on RN, it is more customary to use the easier (and older) Vitali covering lemma in order to derive the previous maximal inequality (with a different constant).
Proof Euler's proof of the degree sum formula uses the technique of double counting: he counts the number of incident pairs ( v , e ) {\displaystyle (v,e)} where e {\displaystyle e} is an edge and vertex v {\displaystyle v} is one of its endpoints, in two different ways.
Statements of the lemma (symmetric version) Let A 1 , A 2 , … , A k {\displaystyle A_{1},A_{2},\dots ,A_{k}} be a sequence of events such that each event occurs with probability at most p and such that each event is independent of all the other events except for at most d of them.
Proof Let Σ {\displaystyle \Sigma } be a well-quasi-ordered alphabet of symbols (in particular, Σ {\displaystyle \Sigma } could be finite and ordered by the identity relation).
References Édouard Goursat, "Sur les substitutions orthogonales et les divisions régulières de l'espace", Annales Scientifiques de l'École Normale Supérieure (1889), Volume: 6, pages 9–102 J.
{\displaystyle S_{N}=a_{0}b_{0}-a_{1}B_{0}+a_{N}B_{N}+\sum _{n=1}^{N-1}B_{n}(a_{n}-a_{n+1}).} Finally S N = a N B N − ∑ n = 0 N − 1 B n ( a n + 1 − a n ) .
{\displaystyle h.} Céa's lemma can be applied along the same lines to derive error estimates for finite element problems in higher dimensions (here the domain of u {\displaystyle u} was in one dimension), and while using higher order polynomials for the subspace V h .
{\displaystyle m\leq n.} By reordering μ m w m , … , μ n w n {\displaystyle \mu _{m}w_{m},\ldots ,\mu _{n}w_{n}} if necessary, we may assume that μ m {\displaystyle \mu _{m}} is nonzero.
{\displaystyle |\operatorname {Ric} |_{g}^{2}\leq \textstyle {\frac {1}{n}}R^{2}.} If ( M , g ) {\displaystyle (M,g)} is a connected smooth pseudo-Riemannian manifold, then the first three conditions are equivalent, and they imply the fourth condition.
By symmetry, { ( g ′ N ′ , g N ) ∣ ( g , g ′ ) ∈ H } {\displaystyle \{(g'N',gN)\mid (g,g')\in H\}} is the graph of a well-defined homomorphism G ′ / N ′ → G / N {\displaystyle G'/N'\to G/N} .
{\displaystyle \langle T_{v}\exp _{p}(v),T_{v}\exp _{p}(w)\rangle _{q}=\langle v,w\rangle _{p}.} For p ∈ M {\displaystyle p\in M} , this lemma means that exp p {\displaystyle \exp _{p}} is a radial isometry in the following sense: let v ∈ B ϵ ( 0 ) {\displaystyle v\in B_{\epsilon }(0)} , i.e.
Stein, Elias (1970), Singular Integrals and Differentiability Properties of Functions, Princeton University Press.
For A ∈ A {\displaystyle A\in {\mathcal {A}}} let Γ ( A ) {\displaystyle \Gamma (A)} denote the neighbours of A {\displaystyle A} in the dependency graph (In the dependency graph, event A {\displaystyle A} is not adjacent to events which are mutually independent).
This article incorporates material from Schwarz lemma on PlanetMath, which is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License.
Here, the term "tail" means those terms in the sequence that are not among the N largest terms, for an arbitrary natural number N.
In probability theory, Slepian's lemma (1962), named after David Slepian, is a Gaussian comparison inequality.
In set theory, a branch of mathematics, the condensation lemma is a result about sets in the constructible universe.
Besides the thick-thin decomposition some other applications are: The collar lemma: this is a more precise version of the description of the compact components of the thin parts.
have zero covariance; see uncorrelatedness), we have the converse of the piling up lemma: if it does not hold, the variables are not independent (uncorrelated).
{\displaystyle V.} This, together with the above properties of this form, implies that a ( ⋅ , ⋅ ) {\displaystyle a(\cdot ,\cdot )} is an inner product on V .
The Morse–Palais lemma was originally proved in the finite-dimensional case by the American mathematician Marston Morse, using the Gram–Schmidt orthogonalization process.
Because the two propositional variables occurring in P ∨ ¬ R {\displaystyle P\lor \lnot R} occur in both φ {\displaystyle \varphi } and ψ {\displaystyle \psi } , this means that P ∨ ¬ R {\displaystyle P\lor \lnot R} is an interpolant for the implication φ → ψ {\displaystyle \varphi \to \psi } .
{\displaystyle V.} The resulting norm ‖ v ‖ a = a ( v , v ) {\displaystyle \|v\|_{a}={\sqrt {a(v,v)}}} is called the energy norm, since it corresponds to a physical energy in many problems.
It is often useful to repeat zero times, which removes v {\displaystyle v} and x {\displaystyle x} from the string (this is "pumping down").
Baraniuk, Richard; Davenport, Mark; DeVore, Ronald; Wakin, Michael (2008), "A simple proof of the restricted isometry property for random matrices", Constructive Approximation, 28 (3): 253–263, doi:10.1007/s00365-007-9003-x, hdl:1911/21683, MR 2453366, S2CID 15911073.
Then there exists a prime ideal P {\displaystyle P} satisfying I ⊆ P {\displaystyle I\subseteq P} and P ∩ M = ∅ {\displaystyle P\cap M=\varnothing } .
For that end, consider the set P = { f : X ′ → U ∣ X ′ ⊂ X , f ( S ) ∈ S for each S ∈ X ′ } {\displaystyle P=\{f:X'\to U\mid X'\subset X,f(S)\in S{\text{ for each }}S\in X'\}} .
{\displaystyle v(a)=v(b)=0.} The inner product on this space is ( v , w ) = ∫ a b ( v ( x ) w ( w ) + v ′ ( x ) w ′ ( x ) ) d x {\displaystyle (v,w)=\int _{a}^{b}\!\left(v(x)w(w)+v'(x)w'(x)\right)\,dx} for all v {\displaystyle v} and w {\displaystyle w} in V .
In the original proof by Aubin, the spaces X0 and X1 in the statement of the lemma were assumed to be reflexive, but this assumption was removed by Simon, so the result is also referred to as the Aubin–Lions–Simon lemma.
The basic idea behind the proof is that we will approximate g ( t ) {\displaystyle g(t)} by finitely many terms of its Taylor series.
The free monoid of strings and string concatenation has this property (by Levi's lemma for strings), but by itself equidivisibility is not enough to guarantee that a monoid is free.
Since the statement is local, assume N = R n {\displaystyle N=\mathbb {R} ^{n}} and ∂ i {\displaystyle \partial _{i}} the coordinate vector fields on R n {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} ^{n}} .
The result gives information on the asymptotic distribution of a statistic φ(Zε) of a family of random variables Zε as ε becomes small in terms of a rate function for the variables.
If it is locally finite, it meets the conditions of the lemma and has a ray, and if it is not locally finite then it has an infinite-degree vertex.
In mathematics, more specifically in group theory, a group is said to be perfect if it equals its own commutator subgroup, or equivalently, if the group has no non-trivial abelian quotients.
{\displaystyle M.} Therefore, the rank of the γ {\displaystyle \gamma } th homology group, that is, the Betti number b γ ( M ) {\displaystyle b_{\gamma }(M)} , is less than or equal to the number of critical points of index γ {\displaystyle \gamma } of a Morse function on M .
{\displaystyle b\in B.} Any such function is called a Urysohn function for A {\displaystyle A} and B .
None of these shattered sets contain x {\displaystyle x} , since a set that contains x {\displaystyle x} cannot be shattered by a family in which all sets contain x {\displaystyle x} or all sets do not contain x {\displaystyle x} .
More specifically, the J {\displaystyle \ \mathbf {J} \ } above only consisted of external "source" terms introduced into Maxwell's equations.
Therefore, for any f ∈ [ H 0 1 ( Ω ) ] ′ {\displaystyle f\in [H_{0}^{1}(\Omega )]'} , there is a unique solution u ∈ V {\displaystyle u\in V} of Poisson's equation and we have the estimate ‖ ∇ u ‖ ≤ ‖ f ‖ [ H 0 1 ( Ω ) ] ′ .
{\displaystyle f-g\in IR[X].} If h ∈ R [ X ] , {\displaystyle h\in R[X],} a factorization of h modulo I consists in two (or more) polynomials f, g in R [ X ] {\displaystyle R[X]} such that h ≡ f g ( mod I ) .
Over Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, the Teichmüller–Tukey lemma is equivalent to the axiom of choice, and therefore to the well-ordering theorem, Zorn's lemma, and the Hausdorff maximal principle.
Now let us calculate the scalar product ⟨ T v exp p ⁡ ( v ) , T v exp p ⁡ ( w ) ⟩ {\displaystyle \langle T_{v}\exp _{p}(v),T_{v}\exp _{p}(w)\rangle } .
The lemma plays an important role in the conditional expectation in probability theory, where it allows replacement of the conditioning on a random variable by conditioning on the σ {\displaystyle \sigma } -algebra that is generated by the random variable.
The existence of these polynomials was proven by Axel Thue; Thue's proof used what would be translated from German as Dirichlet's Drawers principle, which is widely known as the Pigeonhole principle.
A simple corollary of the second statement is that every complex irreducible representation of an abelian group is one-dimensional.
Additionally, for odd values of r {\displaystyle r} , the number of edges must be divisible by r {\displaystyle r} .
In other words, w m {\displaystyle w_{m}} is in the span of { u 1 , … , u m , w m + 1 , … , w n } {\displaystyle \{u_{1},\ldots ,u_{m},w_{m+1},\ldots ,w_{n}\}} .
However it can also be used to suggest particular test-statistics that might be of interest or to suggest simplified tests — for this, one considers algebraic manipulation of the ratio to see if there are key statistics in it related to the size of the ratio (i.e.
It may be the case that V has a subspace, W, such that for every element g of G, the invertible linear map ρ(g) preserves or fixes W, so that (ρ(g))(w) is in W for every w in W, and (ρ(g))(v) is not in W for any v not in W.
Riesz's theorem (named after Frigyes Riesz) is an important theorem in functional analysis that states that a Hausdorff topological vector space (TVS) is finite-dimensional if and only if it is locally compact.
The statement of the law in terms of random variables is obtained from the latter by taking each F n {\displaystyle F_{n}} to be the σ-algebra generated by the random variable X n {\displaystyle X_{n}} .
In the mathematics of paper folding, the big-little-big lemma is a necessary condition for a crease pattern with specified mountain folds and valley folds to be able to be folded flat.
Additionally, this yields the estimate ‖ u ‖ ≤ 1 c ‖ f ‖ , {\displaystyle \|u\|\leq {\frac {1}{c}}\|f\|,} where c {\displaystyle c} is the minimal real part of an eigenvalue of A {\displaystyle A} .
Also let S ∩ T be the intersection of the languages of the two theories; the signature of S ∩ T is the intersection of the signatures of the two languages.
infinite sequences of words w 1 , w 2 , w 3 , … ∈ Σ ∗ {\displaystyle w_{1},w_{2},w_{3},\ldots \in \Sigma ^{*}} such that no w i {\displaystyle w_{i}} embeds into a later w j {\displaystyle w_{j}} .
Thus, for any set S of P-smooth numbers, there is a finite subset of S such that every element of S is divisible by one of the numbers in this subset.
That is, we have one of five possibilities for vwx: v w x = a j {\displaystyle vwx=a^{j}} for some j ≤ p {\displaystyle j\leq p} .
It is related to Gordan's lemma in that it shows that the set of these matrices is generated by a finite set of integral matrices.
We need to show that the inequality holds for any subset of A {\displaystyle {\mathcal {A}}} of a certain cardinality given that it holds for all subsets of a lower cardinality.
In many cases, a lemma derives its importance from the theorem it aims to prove; however, a lemma can also turn out to be more important than originally thought.
Proof In general, for any finite group G of order n, it is straightforward to determine the signature of the permutation πg made by left-multiplication by the element g of G.
Further, continuity is independent of openness and closedness in the general case and a continuous function may have one, both, or neither property; this fact remains true even if one restricts oneself to metric spaces.
As an immediate consequence, we see that the endomorphism ring of every finite-length indecomposable module is local.
Then there exists an open set Ω such that: (1) Ω is a disjoint union of open cubes, Ω = ∪k Qk, such that for each Qk, α ≤ 1 m ( Q k ) ∫ Q k | f ( x ) | d x ≤ 2 d α .
Since B 0 {\displaystyle B_{0}} is a finitely generated A {\displaystyle A} -algebra, also B {\displaystyle B} is a finitely generated A {\displaystyle A} -algebra.
This is similar to classical numerical analysis, where, for example, the error of linear interpolation u {\displaystyle \textstyle u} can be bounded using the second derivative of u {\displaystyle \textstyle u} .
The result is often called the Steinitz–Mac Lane exchange lemma, also recognizing the generalization by Saunders Mac Lane of Steinitz's lemma to matroids.
Their isolation lemma chooses a random number of random hyperplanes, and has the property that, with non-negligible probability, the intersection of any fixed non-empty solution space with the chosen hyperplanes contains exactly one element.
Their proof used Papakyriakopoulos' tower construction, but with double covers, as follows: Step 1: Repeatedly take a connected double cover of a regular neighborhood of the image of the disk to produce a tower of spaces, each a connected double cover of the one below it.
Then the number of triples ( x , y , z ) ∈ X × Y × Z {\displaystyle (x,y,z)\in X\times Y\times Z} such that x , y , z {\displaystyle x,y,z} form a triangle in G {\displaystyle G} is at least ( 1 − 2 ϵ ) ( d X Y − ϵ ) ( d X Z − ϵ ) ( d Y Z − ϵ ) | X | | Y | | Z | .
In algebra, Quillen's lemma states that an endomorphism of a simple module over the enveloping algebra of a finite-dimensional Lie algebra over a field k is algebraic over k.
If 𝜏 is any other locally convex Hausdorff topological vector space topology on X, then we say that 𝜏 is compatible with duality between X and Y if when X is equipped with 𝜏, then it has Y as its continuous dual space.
Newman's lemma: If an abstract rewriting system is terminating and locally confluent, then it is confluent.
There exists a constant bN depending only on the dimension N with the following property: Given any Besicovitch cover F of a bounded set E, there is a subcollection G of F such that G is a cover of the set E and every point x ∈ E belongs to at most bN different balls from the subcover G.
Technically, the Morse functions form an open, dense subset of all smooth functions M → R {\displaystyle M\to \mathbb {R} } in the C 2 {\displaystyle C^{2}} topology.
The continuity of the normal function implies the class of fixed points is closed (the supremum of any subset of the class of fixed points is again a fixed point).
Generalizations Renyi–Lamperti lemma The assumption of independence in the second lemma can be relaxed.
External links "Urysohn lemma", Encyclopedia of Mathematics, EMS Press, 2001 [1994] Mizar system proof: https://www.mizar.org/version/current/html/urysohn3.html#T20
Gauss's Lemma states: Let v , w ∈ B ϵ ( 0 ) ⊂ T v T p M ≅ T p M {\displaystyle v,w\in B_{\epsilon }(0)\subset T_{v}T_{p}M\cong T_{p}M} and M ∋ q := exp p ⁡ ( v ) {\displaystyle M\ni q:=\exp _{p}(v)} .
{\displaystyle \limsup _{\varepsilon \to 0}{\big (}\varepsilon \log \mathbf {E} {\big [}\exp {\big (}\gamma \phi (Z_{\varepsilon })/\varepsilon {\big )}{\big ]}{\big )}<\infty .} Then lim ε → 0 ε log ⁡ E [ exp ⁡ ( ϕ ( Z ε ) / ε ) ] = sup x ∈ X ( ϕ ( x ) − I ( x ) ) .
In mathematics, Heegner's lemma is a lemma used by Kurt Heegner in his paper on the class number problem.
Now apply a permutation V which swaps any pairs in which the upper member was originally a lower member: Finally, apply a permutation W which gets back the original matrix: We have W−1 = VU.
Note that we have essentially proved Pr ( A ¯ ∣ ⋀ B ∈ S B ¯ ) ≥ 1 − x ( A ) {\displaystyle \Pr \left({\overline {A}}\mid \bigwedge _{B\in S}{\overline {B}}\right)\geq 1-x(A)} .
Formulation in the language of modules Theorem: Let M , N {\displaystyle M,N} be two simple modules over a ring R {\displaystyle R} .
In computational geometry, they have been applied to range searching, derandomization, and approximation algorithms.
The main difference is that in WalkSAT, after the unsatisfied clause C is selected, a single variable in C is selected at random and has its value flipped (which can be viewed as selecting uniformly among only k {\displaystyle k} rather than all 2 k {\displaystyle 2^{k}} value assignments to C).
In this case, the claim holds because there are no vectors u i {\displaystyle u_{i}} , and the set { w 1 , … , w n } {\displaystyle \{w_{1},\dotsc ,w_{n}\}} spans V {\displaystyle V} by hypothesis.
{\displaystyle f(B)\subseteq \{1\}.} This step requires the V ( r ) {\displaystyle V(r)} sets in order to work.
If sup A {\displaystyle \sup A} is a limit ordinal then the equality follows from the continuous property of f {\displaystyle f} .
In 1945 Paul Erdős improved the upper bound for d = 1 to ( n ⌊ n / 2 ⌋ ) ≈ 2 n 1 n {\displaystyle {n \choose \lfloor {n/2}\rfloor }\approx 2^{n}\,{\frac {1}{\sqrt {n}}}} using Sperner's theorem.
If the function α is non-negative, then it suffices to insert these results into Claim 1 to derive the above variant of Grönwall's inequality for the function u.
Statement Let U {\displaystyle U} and W {\displaystyle W} be finite subsets of a vector space V {\displaystyle V} .
{\displaystyle \Delta \delta T=\epsilon {\mathcal {L}}_{\xi }T_{0}.} The only three possible ways this can be satisfied are those of the lemma.
The Mackey–Arens theorem is an important theorem in functional analysis that characterizes those locally convex vector topologies that have some given space of linear functionals as their continuous dual space.
Riesz's "rising sun" lemma", Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society, 133 (5): 1437–1440, doi:10.1090/S0002-9939-04-07653-1 Riesz, Frédéric (1932), "Sur un Théorème de Maximum de Mm.
History The lemma was not published by Adolf Lindenbaum; it is originally attributed to him by Alfred Tarski.
In particular, a complete finite-volume hyperbolic manifold is always diffeomorphic to the interior of a compact manifold (possibly with empty boundary).
So, by dominated convergence, we have the analogous identity lim R → ∞ 1 2 R ∫ − R R ν ^ ( ξ ) d ξ = ν ( { 0 } ) .
See also Chaotic systems Butterfly effect References External links Shadowing Theorem on Scholarpedia Can a butterfly in Brazil control the climate of Texas?
A non-trivial finite perfect group that is not simple must then be an extension of at least one smaller simple non-abelian group.
The existential version of the Local Lemma permits a larger upper bound on dependencies: | Γ ( A ) | < 2 n e , {\displaystyle |\Gamma (A)|<{\frac {2^{n}}{e}},} This bound is known to be tight.
Scholars have applied the tetralemma to issues such as family-business tensions, organisational purpose, and governance, where competing rationalities often cannot be adequately addressed through either–or reasoning.
Practice In practice, the ⁠ X {\displaystyle X} ⁠s are approximations to the S-boxes (substitution components) of block ciphers.
Suppose that ℓ ( v ) = 0 {\displaystyle \textstyle \ell \left(v\right)=0} for all v ∈ P m − 1 {\displaystyle \textstyle v\in P_{m-1}} .
Let r 1 , … , r n {\displaystyle r_{1},\ldots ,r_{n}} be selected uniformly at random from S {\displaystyle S} .
By the use of Finsler's lemma, it is possible to derive a sufficient condition for universal stabilizability in terms of a differential linear matrix inequality.
Moreover, consider a polynomial g = ∏ i ∈ I ( X − α i ) {\displaystyle g=\prod _{i\in I}(X-\alpha _{i})} with coefficients and roots in K.
By the induction assumption, these two subfamilies shatter two collections of sets whose sizes add to at least | F | {\displaystyle |{\mathcal {F}}|} .
In general, a ring R is a Jacobson ring if and only if every finitely generated R-algebra that is a field is finite over R.
The two pairs of small Bézout's coefficients are obtained from the given one (x, y) by choosing for k in the above formula either of the two integers next to ⁠x/b/d⁠.
{\displaystyle f(x):={\frac {1}{n}}\sum _{i=1}^{n}d(x,C_{i}).} Since f {\displaystyle f} is continuous on a compact set, it attains a minimum δ {\displaystyle \delta } .
It is easy to check that P {\displaystyle P} is indeed a projection onto V {\displaystyle V} and that ‖ P ‖ ≤ n {\displaystyle \|P\|\leq n} (this follows from the triangle inequality).
In that case, the lemma constructs an isotopy from the fiber f − 1 ( a ) {\displaystyle f^{-1}(a)} to f − 1 ( b ) {\displaystyle f^{-1}(b)} ; whence the name "isotopy lemma".
Statement of the lemma Let X be a regular topological space; let (Zε)ε>0 be a family of random variables taking values in X; let με be the law (probability measure) of Zε.
In mathematics, Fatou's lemma establishes an inequality relating the Lebesgue integral of the limit inferior of a sequence of functions to the limit inferior of integrals of these functions.
167–190, doi:10.1515/9781400882182-010, ISBN 9781400882182, MR 0067317, Zbl 0058.08703 {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) External links MathWorld page on Lax–Milgram theorem
In 2008, Sergey Bereg, Adrian Dumitrescu, and Minghui Jiang established new bounds for various F(X) and f(X) that improve upon earlier results of R.
We separate w {\displaystyle w} into a component w T {\displaystyle w_{T}} parallel to v {\displaystyle v} and a component w N {\displaystyle w_{N}} normal to v {\displaystyle v} .
Statement of the lemma Suppose Ω {\displaystyle \textstyle \Omega } is a bounded domain in R n {\displaystyle \textstyle \mathbb {R} ^{n}} , n ≥ 1 {\displaystyle \textstyle n\geq 1} , with boundary ∂ Ω {\displaystyle \textstyle \partial \Omega } and diameter d {\displaystyle \textstyle d} .
Proof We will focus on the one-dimensional case n = 1 {\displaystyle n=1} , the proof in higher dimensions is similar.
Extensions The effective version of the lemma's statement, "every consistent computably enumerable theory can be extended to a complete consistent computably enumerable theory," fails (provided Peano arithmetic is consistent) by Gödel's incompleteness theorem.
For example, starting with an equation xα = yβ where x and y are the unknowns, we can transform it (assuming |x| ≥ |y|, so there exists t such that x=yt) to ytα = yβ, thus to tα = β.
Remarks If f is continuous on the semicircular contour CR for all large R and then by Jordan's lemma lim R → ∞ ∫ C R f ( z ) d z = 0.
The 11n different events we want to avoid correspond to the 11n pairs of adjacent points on the circle.
If R = Z {\displaystyle R=\mathbb {Z} } , then it says a rational root of a monic polynomial over integers is an integer (cf.
This can be verified by noting that conditions 2 and 3 together with closure under finite intersections imply closure under finite unions, which in turn implies closure under countable unions.
The exponential map is a mapping from the tangent space at p to M: e x p : T p M → M {\displaystyle \mathrm {exp} :T_{p}M\to M} which is a diffeomorphism in a neighborhood of zero.
(1957b), "On Dehn's Lemma and the Asphericity of Knots", Annals of Mathematics, 66 (1): 1–26, doi:10.2307/1970113, JSTOR 1970113, MR 0090053 Rubinstein, J.H.
Because the set of norm-1 points make up a convex symmetric body in V {\displaystyle V} , there exists a hyperplane P n {\displaystyle P_{n}} supporting V {\displaystyle V} at e n {\displaystyle e_{n}} .
Hence a PPP calculated using the US consumption as a base will differ from that calculated using China as a base.
This is stronger than the usual statement of the uncertainty principle in terms of the product of standard deviations.
Grönwall is the Swedish spelling of his name, but he spelled his name as Gronwall in his scientific publications after emigrating to the United States.
{\displaystyle \|u\|_{L^{4}}\leq {\begin{cases}C\|u\|_{L^{2,\infty }}^{1/2}\|\nabla u\|_{L^{2}}^{1/2},&n=2,\\C\|u\|_{L^{2,\infty }}^{1/4}\|\nabla u\|_{L^{2}}^{3/4},&n=3.\end{cases}}} See also Agmon's inequality References Constantin, P.; Seregin, G.
Informally Janson's inequality involves taking a sample of many independent random binary variables, and a set of subsets of those variables and bounding the probability that the sample will contain any of those subsets by their pairwise correlation.
Proof Define an indicator random variable E {\displaystyle E} , that indicates the event that our estimate X ~ = f ( Y ) {\displaystyle {\tilde {X}}=f(Y)} is in error, E := { 1 if X ~ ≠ X , 0 if X ~ = X .
In the words of Bell, "If [a hidden-variable theory] is local it will not agree with quantum mechanics, and if it agrees with quantum mechanics it will not be local." In his original paper, Bell analyzed independent measurements on two spatially separated particles of an entangled pair.
As r goes to zero, the ratio approaches one, so together with the monotonicity this implies that V o l B ( p , r ) ≤ V o l B ( p K , r ) .
Form the ( N + 1 ) × m {\displaystyle (N+1)\times m} matrix G {\displaystyle G} whose columns are the homogeneous coordinates of these points.
to be in one of some collection of states described by a vector) multiplied by the probability to be outside of a neighbourhood of that subspace at least a distance t {\displaystyle t} away, is bounded from above by the exponential factor e − t 2 / 4 {\displaystyle e^{-t^{2}/4}} .
Definition Let Y {\displaystyle Y} be any random variable with E [ | Y | ] < ∞ {\displaystyle \mathbb {E} [|Y|]<\infty } .
Lower bounds Some historical data on best known lower bounds of K G R ( d ) {\displaystyle K_{G}^{\mathbb {R} }(d)} is summarized in the following table.
Let F n {\displaystyle F_{n}} denote the associated empirical distribution function defined by F n ( x ) = 1 n ∑ i = 1 n 1 { X i ≤ x } , x ∈ R .
{\displaystyle |u-v|\geq {\bigl |}|u|-|v|{\bigr |}.} The taxicab norm or 1-norm is one generalization absolute value to higher dimensions.
Proof of Loewner's torus inequality Loewner's torus inequality can be proved most easily by using the computational formula for the variance, E ⁡ ( X 2 ) − ( E ⁡ ( X ) ) 2 = v a r ( X ) .
By definition, the arc length of a curve is the least upper bound of the lengths of all polygonal approximations of the curve.
The system is called invariant under spin flipping if, for any j {\displaystyle j} in Λ {\displaystyle \Lambda } , the measure μ {\displaystyle \mu } is preserved under the sign flipping map σ → τ {\displaystyle \sigma \to \tau } , where τ k = { σ k , k ≠ j , − σ k , k = j .
This leaves us with one solution to the implicit equation for aN, namely a N = 1 + g N 2 1 + 1 + 4 σ 2 ( 1 + g N ) 2 − 1.
{\displaystyle G(\alpha )+\int _{0}^{t}\,f(s)\,ds\in \operatorname {Dom} (G^{-1}),\qquad \forall \,t\in [0,T].} == References ==
consider a second copy of the spin, σ ′ {\displaystyle \sigma '} , with the same distribution of σ {\displaystyle \sigma } .
Tradable goods such as non-perishable commodities that can be sold on the international market (like diamonds).
( 1 − x n ) ≥ 1 − S n , {\displaystyle (1-x_{1})(1-x_{2})(1-x_{3})(1-x_{4})....(1-x_{n})\geq 1-S_{n},} and similarly, for 0 ≤ x1, ..., xn, ( 1 + x 1 ) ( 1 + x 2 ) ( 1 + x 3 ) ( 1 + x 4 ) .
Generalizations and comparisons to other bounds For generalizations see Freedman (1975) and Fan, Grama and Liu (2012) for a martingale version of Bennett's inequality and its improvement, respectively.
, u n {\displaystyle u_{0},..,u_{n}} , including Hölder's inequality and Young's inequality for convolutions which are also presented below.
The proof above holds for any function g {\displaystyle g} such that f ( x ) = x g ( x ) {\displaystyle f(x)=xg(x)} is convex, such as all continuous non-decreasing functions.
Parabolic partial differential equations There is a version of Harnack's inequality for linear parabolic PDEs such as heat equation.
In the language of large deviations theory, Sanov's theorem identifies the rate function for large deviations of the empirical measure of a sequence of i.i.d.
Formulation Given m0,...,m2m-1 ∈ R, consider the collection C of measures μ on R such that ∫ x k d μ ( x ) = m k {\displaystyle \int x^{k}d\mu (x)=m_{k}} for k = 0,1,...,2m − 1 (and in particular the integral is defined and finite).
{\displaystyle f(x):=\ln x-\ln(1-x)=\ln {\frac {x}{1-x}},\qquad x\in (0,{\tfrac {1}{2}}].} Detailed proof: (a) If at least one xi is zero, then the left-hand side of the Ky Fan inequality is zero and the inequality is proved.
We want to bound the probability that any A ∈ S {\displaystyle A\in S} is a subset of Γ p {\displaystyle \Gamma _{p}} .
{\displaystyle r={\frac {d}{\sqrt {3}}}.} General metric spaces For any bounded set S {\displaystyle S} in any metric space, d / 2 ≤ r ≤ d {\displaystyle d/2\leq r\leq d} .
Doob, also known as a Levy martingale) is a stochastic process that approximates a given random variable and has the martingale property with respect to the given filtration.
Then (x1, …, xn) majorizes the n-tuple (a, a, …, a), since the arithmetic mean of the i largest numbers of (x1, …, xn) is at least as large as the arithmetic mean a of all the n numbers, for every i ∈ {1, …, n − 1}.
In the geometry of circle packings in the Euclidean plane, the ring lemma gives a lower bound on the sizes of adjacent circles in a circle packing.
Theorem There are many variations on the basic idea, some employing stronger mathematical assumptions than others.
In this case van Zuijlen has shown that P ( | μ − σ | ) ≤ 0.5 {\displaystyle P(|\mu -\sigma |)\leq 0.5\,} where μ is the mean and σ is the standard deviation of the sum.
The inequality generalizes the subadditivity property of entropy, which can be recovered by taking S i = { i } {\displaystyle S_{i}=\{i\}} for i ∈ { 1 , … , n } {\displaystyle i\in \{1,\ldots ,n\}} .
This is in fact the original version published by Loomis and Whitney in 1949 (the above is a generalization).
They give bounds for the Lp-norms of the sum and difference of two measurable functions in Lp in terms of the Lp-norms of those functions individually.
In mathematics, Gårding's inequality is a result that gives a lower bound for the bilinear form induced by a real linear elliptic partial differential operator.
The theorem follows by choosing the constant a so that this harmonic function has the same maximum value on both circles.
Furthermore, if A is a closed set, then lim n → ∞ 1 n log ⁡ q n ( p ^ x n ∈ A ) = − D K L ( p ∗ | | q ) .
Statement Let m and M be the lower and upper bounds, respectively, for a set of real numbers a1, ..., an , with a particular probability distribution.
Stochastic Gronwall inequality is a generalization of Gronwall's inequality and has been used for proving the well-posedness of path-dependent stochastic differential equations with local monotonicity and coercivity assumption with respect to supremum norm.
In mathematics, Abel's inequality, named after Niels Henrik Abel, supplies a simple bound on the absolute value of the inner product of two vectors in an important special case.
Relationship to polynomials Samuelson was not the first to describe this relationship: the first was probably Laguerre in 1880 while investigating the roots (zeros) of polynomials.
Then for almost every x ∈ R n {\displaystyle x\in \mathbb {R} ^{n}} , | ∇ | f | ( x ) | ≤ | ( ∇ + i A ) f ( x ) | .
} {\displaystyle n\in \{1,2,...\}} and s ∈ R + {\displaystyle s\in \mathbb {R} ^{+}} let N [ n , s ] {\displaystyle N[n,s]} be the maximum number of observations among X 1 , X 2 , .
{\displaystyle |\beta _{n}|^{2}\leq \exp \left(\sum _{k=1}^{n}(k|\alpha _{k}|^{2}-1/k)\right).} See also exponential formula (on exponentiation of power series).
These inequalities often appear in mathematical competitions and have applications in many fields of science.
Several techniques have been introduced to obtain so-called Welch Bound Equality (WBE) sets of vectors for the k = 1 {\displaystyle k=1} bound.
, n}, the set { ( s 1 , … , s n ) ∈ I s , t n ∣ s i = s j } {\displaystyle \{(s_{1},\ldots ,s_{n})\in I_{s,t}^{n}\mid s_{i}=s_{j}\}} is contained in a hyperplane, hence by an application of Fubini's theorem its measure with respect to the n-fold product of μ is zero.
{\displaystyle A_{n}=\{1,2,\dots ,n\}.} Then ( ∑ i = 1 n p i x i ) ( ∑ i = 1 n p i x i ) ≤ ( a + b ) 2 4 a b ( ∑ i = 1 n p i ) 2 − ( a − b ) 2 4 a b ⋅ min { ( ∑ i ∈ X p i − ∑ j ∈ Y p j ) 2 : X ∪ Y = A n , X ∩ Y = ∅ } .
{\displaystyle S_{n}=x_{1}+x_{2}+x_{3}+x_{4}+....+x_{n}.} The inequality is named after the German mathematician Karl Weierstrass.
In probability theory, the Chung–Erdős inequality provides a lower bound on the probability that one out of many (possibly dependent) events occurs.
Hölder's inequality holds even if ‖ f g ‖ 1 {\displaystyle \|fg\|_{1}} is infinite, the right-hand side also being infinite in that case.
Hanner, Olof (1956), "On the uniform convexity of Lp and ℓp", Arkiv för Matematik, 3 (3): 239–244, Bibcode:1956ArM.....3..239H, doi:10.1007/BF02589410, MR 0077087.
Informally speaking, the smoother the function is, the better it can be approximated by polynomials.
In information theory, Pinsker's inequality, named after its inventor Mark Semenovich Pinsker, is an inequality that bounds the total variation distance (or statistical distance) in terms of the Kullback–Leibler divergence.
In mathematics, especially functional analysis, Bessel's inequality is a statement about the coefficients of an element x {\displaystyle x} in a Hilbert space with respect to an orthonormal sequence.
{\displaystyle \sum _{k=1}^{n}a_{k}b_{k}=a_{n}B_{n}-\sum _{k=1}^{n-1}B_{k}(a_{k+1}-a_{k}).} References Weisstein, Eric W.
{\displaystyle \left|\det N\right|={\bigg (}\prod _{i=1}^{n}\|v_{i}\|{\bigg )}\left|\det M\right|\leq \prod _{i=1}^{n}\|v_{i}\|.} To prove (1), consider P =M*M where M* is the conjugate transpose of M, and let the eigenvalues of P be λ1, λ2, … λn.
In matrix theory, Samuelson’s inequality is used to locate the eigenvalues of certain matrices and tensors.
When mes ⁡ E < 1 − log ⁡ n n {\displaystyle \operatorname {mes} E<1-{\frac {\log n}{n}}} a similar inequality holds for p > 2.
Also, let σ 2 = ∑ i = 1 n σ i 2 {\displaystyle \sigma ^{2}=\sum _{i=1}^{n}\sigma _{i}^{2}} and S n = X 1 + X 2 + ⋯ + X n σ {\displaystyle S_{n}={X_{1}+X_{2}+\cdots +X_{n} \over \sigma }} be the normalized n-th partial sum.
Note that for p = 2 {\displaystyle p=2} the inequalities become equalities which are both the parallelogram rule.
For any two θ , θ ′ ∈ Θ {\displaystyle \theta ,\theta '\in \Theta } , let χ 2 ( μ θ ′ ; μ θ ) {\displaystyle \chi ^{2}(\mu _{\theta '};\mu _{\theta })} be the χ 2 {\displaystyle \chi ^{2}} -divergence from μ θ {\displaystyle \mu _{\theta }} to μ θ ′ {\displaystyle \mu _{\theta '}} .
Suppose 0 < x i ≤ a {\displaystyle 0<x_{i}\leq a} and 0 < p i {\displaystyle 0<p_{i}} for i = 1 , … , n {\displaystyle i=1,\ldots ,n} .
Precisely, let B : c 0 × c 0 → C {\displaystyle B:c_{0}\times c_{0}\to \mathbb {C} } or R {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} } be a bilinear form.
In the fourth subplot, the k-value of "AFGP" and "Aesthetic Function Graph" is added to get the resultant graph, where both texts can be seen with some distortion due to the effects of binary addition.
See also Chapman–Robbins bound Kullback's inequality Brascamp–Lieb inequality Lehmann–Scheffé theorem Ziv–Zakai bound References and notes Further reading Amemiya, Takeshi (1985).
If K is a non-empty, compact subset of Rn, let ‖ K ‖ = max { ‖ v ‖ R n | v ∈ K } {\displaystyle \|K\|=\max \left\{\left.\|v\|_{\mathbb {R} ^{n}}\right|v\in K\right\}} and define the set-valued expectation E[X] of X to be E [ X ] = { E [ V ] | V is a selection of X and E ‖ V ‖ < + ∞ } .
∎ Related inequalities The Paley–Zygmund inequality can be written as P ⁡ ( Z > θ E ⁡ [ Z ] ) ≥ ( 1 − θ ) 2 E ⁡ [ Z ] 2 Var ⁡ Z + E ⁡ [ Z ] 2 .
Define A0 = B0 = 0 and A i = x 1 + ⋯ + x i , B i = y 1 + ⋯ + y i {\displaystyle A_{i}=x_{1}+\cdots +x_{i},\qquad B_{i}=y_{1}+\cdots +y_{i}} for all i ∈ {1, …, n}.
Further, let M ( t ) , t ≥ 0 {\displaystyle M(t),\,t\geq 0} be an ( F t ) t ≥ 0 {\displaystyle ({\mathcal {F}}_{t})_{t\geq 0}} - local martingale with M ( 0 ) = 0 {\displaystyle M(0)=0} and càdlàg paths.
External links Gauss–Bonnet theorem, in the Encyclopedia of Mathematics, including a brief account of Cohn-Vossen's inequality
In mathematics, particularly, in asymptotic convex geometry, Milman's reverse Brunn–Minkowski inequality is a result due to Vitali Milman that provides a reverse inequality to the famous Brunn–Minkowski inequality for convex bodies in n-dimensional Euclidean space Rn.
Denote by M ( n , t ) {\displaystyle M(n,t)} the maximum number of codewords in a t-asymmetric-error-correcting code of length n.
[An inverse form of the Brunn-Minkowski inequality, with applications to the local theory of normed spaces]".
Moreover, in the case where the summands X1, ..., Xn have identical distributions ψ 0 = ψ 1 = ρ 1 σ 1 3 n , {\displaystyle \psi _{0}=\psi _{1}={\frac {\rho _{1}}{\sigma _{1}^{3}{\sqrt {n}}}},} and thus the bounds stated by inequalities (1), (2) and (3) coincide apart from the constant.
For n = 4 {\displaystyle n=4} , Maclaurin's inequality states: a 1 + a 2 + a 3 + a 4 4 ≥ a 1 a 2 + a 1 a 3 + a 1 a 4 + a 2 a 3 + a 2 a 4 + a 3 a 4 6 ≥ a 1 a 2 a 3 + a 1 a 2 a 4 + a 1 a 3 a 4 + a 2 a 3 a 4 4 3 ≥ a 1 a 2 a 3 a 4 4 .
To be a balanced incomplete block design it is required that: k different varieties are in each block, 1 ≤ k < v; no variety occurs twice in any one block; any two varieties occur together in exactly λ blocks; each variety occurs in exactly r blocks.
"Eine Determinantenidentität und ihre Anwendung auf analytische Gebilde in euklidischer und Hermitescher Maßbestimmung".
In words, C ( θ α ) {\displaystyle C(\theta _{\alpha })} is a cap symmetric around the positive axis x 1 {\displaystyle x_{1}} with the same area as the intersection Ω ∩ { | z | = r } {\displaystyle \Omega \cap \{|z|=r\}} .
Let f be a continuous function from an interval I ⊆ R {\displaystyle I\subseteq \mathbb {R} } to R {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} } .
Statement of the inequality Let X1, ..., Xn : Ω → R be independent random variables defined on a common probability space (Ω, F, Pr), with expected value E[Xk] = 0 and variance Var[Xk] < +∞ for k = 1, ..., n.
It generalizes the discrete form of Jensen's inequality, and generalizes in turn to the concept of Schur-convex functions.
Matus proved that no finite set of inequalities can characterize (by linear combinations) all entropic inequalities.
Then V 1 ( K , L ) ≥ V ( K ) ( n − 1 ) / n V ( L ) 1 / n , {\displaystyle V_{1}(K,L)\geq V(K)^{(n-1)/n}V(L)^{1/n},} with equality if and only if K and L are homothetic, i.e.
When analyzing similar objects where the differences are not independent, the main tools are martingales and Azuma's inequality.
{\displaystyle \displaystyle {\frac {{\frac {a}{S-a}}+{\frac {b}{S-b}}+{\frac {c}{S-c}}}{3}}\geq {\frac {S/3}{S-S/3}}.} A straightforward computation then yields a b + c + b c + a + c a + b ≥ 3 2 .
Then the Remez inequality states that sup p ∈ π n ( σ ) ‖ p ‖ ∞ = ‖ T n ‖ ∞ {\displaystyle \sup _{p\in \pi _{n}(\sigma )}\left\|p\right\|_{\infty }=\left\|T_{n}\right\|_{\infty }} where Tn(x) is the Chebyshev polynomial of degree n, and the supremum norm is taken over the interval [−1, 1+σ].
If N {\displaystyle N} is unorientable, it is classified by a number g > 0 {\displaystyle g>0} and is diffeomorphic to the connected sum of g {\displaystyle g} real projective spaces R P 2 .
It has important consequences in complex geometry, such as showing that the normalized exterior powers of the Kähler form of a Kähler manifold are calibrations.
In probability theory, Lorden's inequality is a bound for the moments of overshoot for a stopped sum of random variables, first published by Gary Lorden in 1970.
Optimal constant While the original proof yielded the constant C = 8.52, Lieb and Oxford managed to refine this result to C = 1.68.
{\displaystyle \operatorname {E} (aI_{(X\geq a)})\leq \operatorname {E} (X).} Now, using linearity of expectations, the left side of this inequality is the same as a E ⁡ ( I ( X ≥ a ) ) = a ( 1 ⋅ P ⁡ ( X ≥ a ) + 0 ⋅ P ⁡ ( X < a ) ) = a P ⁡ ( X ≥ a ) .
− ∫ − ∞ ∞ | f ( x ) | 2 log ⁡ | f ( x ) | 2 d x − ∫ − ∞ ∞ | g ( y ) | 2 log ⁡ | g ( y ) | 2 d y ≥ 0.
Statement Suppose that a map f from the circle T to itself has irrational rotation number α, and p/q is a rational approximation to α with p and q coprime, |α – p/q| < 1/q2.
Montgomery & Vaughan's generalizations of Hilbert's inequality are then given by | ∑ r ≠ s u r u s ¯ csc ⁡ π ( x r − x s ) | ≤ δ − 1 ∑ r | u r | 2 .
The proof below illustrates also why Hölder conjugate exponent is the only possible parameter that makes Young's inequality hold for all non-negative values.
In mathematical analysis, Agmon's inequalities, named after Shmuel Agmon, consist of two closely related interpolation inequalities between the Lebesgue space L ∞ {\displaystyle L^{\infty }} and the Sobolev spaces H s {\displaystyle H^{s}} .
The proof utilizes the coarea inequality, the isoperimetric inequality, the cone inequality, and the deformation theorem of Herbert Federer.
In combinatorial mathematics, the XYZ inequality, also called the Fishburn–Shepp inequality, is an inequality for the number of linear extensions of finite partial orders.
{\displaystyle y_{1},\ldots ,y_{n-1}.} Consider now x 1 ≤ ⋯ ≤ x n {\displaystyle x_{1}\leq \cdots \leq x_{n}} and y 1 ≤ ⋯ ≤ y n .
Example of application of Cauchy–Schwarz inequality to determine Linearly Independent Vectors Tutorial and Interactive program.
In mathematics, the Fekete–Szegő inequality is an inequality for the coefficients of univalent analytic functions found by Fekete and Szegő (1933), related to the Bieberbach conjecture.
Then ∫ 0 L y ( x ) 2 d x ≤ L 2 π 2 ∫ 0 L y ′ ( x ) 2 d x , {\displaystyle \int _{0}^{L}y(x)^{2}\,\mathrm {d} x\leq {\frac {L^{2}}{\pi ^{2}}}\int _{0}^{L}y'(x)^{2}\,\mathrm {d} x,} and equality holds if and only if y(x) = c sin ⁠πx/L⁠ for some number c.
{\displaystyle \Vert T\Vert _{L^{2}\to L^{2}}^{2}\leq \sup _{x\in X}\int _{Y}|K(x,y)|\,dy\cdot \sup _{y\in Y}\int _{X}|K(x,y)|\,dx.} This inequality is valid no matter whether the Schwartz kernel K ( x , y ) {\displaystyle \,K(x,y)} is non-negative or not.
{\displaystyle f(t)={\frac {x_{1}+\cdots +x_{n}+t}{n+1}}-({x_{1}\cdots x_{n}t})^{\frac {1}{n+1}},\qquad t>0.} Proving the induction step is equivalent to showing that f(t) ≥ 0 for all t > 0, with f(t) = 0 only if x1, .
{\displaystyle (c_{\max })^{2k}\geq {\frac {1}{m-1}}\left[{\frac {m}{\binom {n+k-1}{k}}}-1\right].} When k = 1 {\displaystyle k=1} , this reduces to ( c max ) 2 ≥ m − n n ( m − 1 ) .
It can be obtained by applying the Paley–Zygmund inequality to the number of A i {\displaystyle A_{i}} which occur.
{\displaystyle r_{1}<r_{2}<r_{3}.} Proof The three circles theorem follows from the fact that for any real a, the function Re log(zaf(z)) is harmonic between two circles, and therefore takes its maximum value on one of the circles.
At least one of the λi is strictly smaller than 1 {\displaystyle 1} , say λn+1; therefore by convexity inequality: φ ( ∑ i = 1 n + 1 λ i x i ) = φ ( ( 1 − λ n + 1 ) ∑ i = 1 n λ i 1 − λ n + 1 x i + λ n + 1 x n + 1 ) ≤ ( 1 − λ n + 1 ) φ ( ∑ i = 1 n λ i 1 − λ n + 1 x i ) + λ n + 1 φ ( x n + 1 ) .
A theorem giving conditions on f, W, and Z which guarantee the saddle point property is called a minimax theorem.
Projective planes over division algebras R , C , H {\displaystyle \mathbb {R,C,H} } In the special case n=2, Gromov's inequality becomes s t s y s 2 2 ≤ 2 v o l 4 ( C P 2 ) {\displaystyle \mathrm {stsys} _{2}{}^{2}\leq 2\mathrm {vol} _{4}(\mathbb {CP} ^{2})} .
{\displaystyle \alpha :={\frac {\log(r_{2}/r)}{\log(r_{2}/r_{1})}}.} Here we use the following normalisation for the L 2 {\displaystyle L^{2}} norm: ‖ u ‖ L 2 ( S ρ ) 2 := ρ 1 − n ∫ S n − 1 | u ( ρ x ^ ) | 2 d σ ( x ^ ) .
{\displaystyle 2^{p}{\big (}\|F\|_{p}^{p}+\|G\|_{p}^{p}{\big )}\geq {\big (}\|F+G\|_{p}+\|F-G\|_{p}{\big )}^{p}+{\big |}\|F+G\|_{p}-\|F-G\|_{p}{\big |}^{p}.} For p ∈ [2, +∞) the inequalities are reversed (they remain non-strict).
Applications The Christ–Kiselev maximal inequality has applications to the Fourier transform and convergence of Fourier series, as well as to the study of Schrödinger operators.
In some statistical applications, the standard binomial variance estimator can be used even if the component probabilities differ, though with a variance estimate that has an upward bias.
{\displaystyle 1-2\Phi \leq \lambda _{2}\leq 1-{\frac {\Phi ^{2}}{2}}.} See also Stochastic matrix Cheeger constant Conductance == References ==
More generally, such sums for the Jacobi symbol relate to local zeta-functions of elliptic curves and hyperelliptic curves; this means that by means of André Weil's results, for N = p a prime number, there are non-trivial bounds O ( p ) .
In mathematics, the Weierstrass product inequality states that for any real numbers 0 ≤ x1, ..., xn ≤ 1 we have ( 1 − x 1 ) ( 1 − x 2 ) ( 1 − x 3 ) ( 1 − x 4 ) .
We consider the descendants at depth ℓ n {\displaystyle \ell _{n}} (i.e., the leaf nodes among the descendants); there are r ℓ n − ℓ 1 {\displaystyle r^{\ell _{n}-\ell _{1}}} such descendant nodes that are removed from consideration.
Denote by λ i {\displaystyle \lambda _{i}} , i = 1, 2, ..., n and μ i {\displaystyle \mu _{i}} , i = 1, 2, ..., r the eigenvalues of A and BTAB, respectively (in descending order).
When bounding the event random variable deviates from its mean in only one direction (positive or negative), Cantelli's inequality gives an improvement over Chebyshev's inequality.
Using this notation, we have I ( X ≥ a ) = 1 {\displaystyle I_{(X\geq a)}=1} if the event X ≥ a {\displaystyle X\geq a} occurs, and I ( X ≥ a ) = 0 {\displaystyle I_{(X\geq a)}=0} if X < a {\displaystyle X<a} .
Generalizations It can be generalized to any finite number n of points instead of 3, taken on the right-hand side k at a time instead of 2 at a time: Let f be a continuous function from an interval I ⊆ R {\displaystyle I\subseteq \mathbb {R} } to R {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} } .
Using the two previous results and the fact that there exists a Morse function on any differentiable manifold, one can prove that any differentiable manifold is a CW complex with an n {\displaystyle n} -cell for each critical point of index n .
Their proof relied on the machinery of weakly defined inverse mean curvature flow, which they developed.
In mathematical analysis, the Pólya–Szegő inequality (or Szegő inequality) states that the Sobolev energy of a function in a Sobolev space does not increase under symmetric decreasing rearrangement.
Alternative version Note that the expression of Pinsker inequality depends on what basis of logarithm is used in the definition of KL-divergence.
(1993), "On an inequality of Haagerup–Pisier", Journal of Operator Theory, 29 (1): 57–67, MR 1277964.
Well, it is possible that C 12 = C 23 = 1 {\displaystyle C_{12}=C_{23}=1} , so that if the value of Q {\displaystyle Q} at t 1 {\displaystyle t_{1}} is ± 1 {\displaystyle \pm 1} , then it is also ± 1 {\displaystyle \pm 1} for both times t 2 {\displaystyle t_{2}} and t 3 {\displaystyle t_{3}} .
Then the following holds: ( ∑ i , j = 1 ∞ | B ( e i , e j ) | 4 / 3 ) 3 / 4 ≤ 2 ‖ B ‖ , {\displaystyle \left(\sum _{i,j=1}^{\infty }|B(e_{i},e_{j})|^{4/3}\right)^{3/4}\leq {\sqrt {2}}\|B\|,} where ‖ B ‖ = sup { | B ( x 1 , x 2 ) | : ‖ x i ‖ ∞ ≤ 1 } .
Furthermore, equality in the Wirtinger inequality is seen to be equivalent to y′(x) = y(x) cot x, the general solution of which (as computed by separation of variables) is y(x) = c sin x for an arbitrary number c.
Here the fundamental class is taken in homology with integer coefficients if the manifold is orientable, and in coefficients modulo 2, otherwise.
Statement Let a 1 , … , a n {\displaystyle a_{1},\ldots ,a_{n}} and b 1 , … , b n {\displaystyle b_{1},\ldots ,b_{n}} be nonnegative numbers.
Let the discrete random variables X {\displaystyle X} and Y {\displaystyle Y} represent input and output messages with a joint probability P ( x , y ) {\displaystyle P(x,y)} .
Then, for each p > 1, there is a constant Cp > 0 such that, for all natural numbers n and functions f ∈ Lp(Rn; R), ‖ M f ‖ L p ≤ C p ‖ f ‖ L p .
{\displaystyle d\leq n-k+1.} In the linear code case a different proof of the Singleton bound can be obtained by observing that rank of the parity check matrix is n − k {\displaystyle n-k} .
Antoni Zygmund proved the inequality in the case when k = 2 , ω 2 ( t , f ) ≤ c t , t > 0 {\displaystyle k=2,\omega _{2}(t,f)\leq ct,t>0} in 1945.
According to the table, an American living or travelling in Switzerland on an income denominated in US dollars would find that country to be the most expensive of the group, having to spend 27% more US dollars to maintain a standard of living comparable to the US in terms of consumption.
Examples Assuming no income is negative, Markov's inequality shows that no more than 10% (1/10) of the population can have more than 10 times the average income.
Thus Boole's inequality holds not only for probability measures P {\displaystyle {\mathbb {P} }} , but more generally when P {\displaystyle {\mathbb {P} }} is replaced by any measure.
Applications The main applications of interpolation inequalities lie in fields of study, such as partial differential equations, where various function spaces are used.
Here ∂ j {\displaystyle \partial _{j}} are the components of the trivial connection for L {\displaystyle L} .
In quantum mechanics, it is also possible to calculate a charge density ρ, which is a function of x ∈ R 3 {\displaystyle x\in \mathbb {R} ^{3}} .
The case when β = 0 {\displaystyle \beta =0} can also be written as 3 F 2 ( − n , n + α + 2 , 1 2 ( α + 1 ) ; 1 2 ( α + 3 ) , α + 1 ; t ) > 0 , 0 ≤ t < 1 , α > − 1.
{\displaystyle (c_{\max })^{2}\geq {\frac {m-n}{n(m-1)}}.} Welch bounds are also sometimes stated in terms of the averaged squared overlap between the set of vectors.
Here, the term "tail" means those terms in the sequence that are not among the N largest terms, for an arbitrary natural number N.
{\displaystyle S_{k-1}S_{k+1}\leq S_{k}^{2}.} Equality holds if and only if all the numbers ai are equal.
Shearer's inequality or also Shearer's lemma, in mathematics, is an inequality in information theory relating the entropy of a set of variables to the entropies of a collection of subsets.
It is a generalization of the rule for the sum of variances of independent random variables to moments of arbitrary order.
See also Total variation for a list of upper bounds Bretagnolle–Huber–Carol Inequality in Concentration inequality == References ==
The theorem is named after the mathematician Marcel Berger, who derived it from an inequality proved by Jerry Kazdan.
Then W ∗ : ℓ p ( Z ) → L q ( N , ν ) {\displaystyle W^{*}:\ell ^{p}(\mathbb {Z} )\to L^{q}(N,\nu )} is a bounded operator.
Bound Ross's conjecture is a bound for the mean delay in a queue where arrivals are governed by a doubly stochastic Poisson process or by a non-stationary Poisson process.
In the original version, T {\displaystyle \,T} is a matrix and α = β = 1 {\displaystyle \,\alpha =\beta =1} .
Vysochanskij–Petunin inequality Let X be a random variable with unimodal distribution, mean μ and finite, non-zero variance σ2.
Given this general case, the formula E [ e λ ( X − E [ X ] ) ] ≤ e λ 2 ( b − a ) 2 8 {\displaystyle \mathbb {E} \left[e^{\lambda (X-\mathbb {E} [X])}\right]\leq e^{\frac {\lambda ^{2}(b-a)^{2}}{8}}} is a mere corollary of a general property of variance proxy.
The hypotheses of Gårding's inequality are easy to verify for the Laplace operator Δ, so there exist constants C and G ≥ 0 B [ u , u ] ≥ C ‖ u ‖ H 1 ( Ω ) 2 − G ‖ u ‖ L 2 ( Ω ) 2 for all u ∈ H 0 1 ( Ω ) .
To precisely state the inequality, let L 2 ( R n ) {\displaystyle L^{2}(\mathbb {R} ^{n})} denote the usual Hilbert space of square-integrable functions, and H 1 ( R n ) {\displaystyle H^{1}(\mathbb {R} ^{n})} the Sobolev space of square-integrable functions with square-integrable derivatives.
{\displaystyle \mathbb {E} \left[e^{\lambda (X-\mathbb {E} [X])}\right]\leq \exp {\Big (}{\frac {\lambda ^{2}(b-a)^{2}}{8}}{\Big )}.} Proof The following proof is direct but somewhat ad-hoc.
Symmetrization If Ω ⊂ R n {\displaystyle \Omega \subset \mathbb {R} ^{n}} is measurable, then it is denoted by Ω ∗ {\displaystyle \Omega ^{*}} the symmetrized version of Ω {\displaystyle \Omega } i.e.
Some non-zero qi, however, may have been excluded since the choice of indices is conditioned upon the pi being non-zero.
{\displaystyle \det(M)\leq \det(A)\det(C).} If M is positive-definite, equality is achieved in Fischer's inequality if and only if all the entries of B are 0.
In other words, the manifold H P 2 {\displaystyle \mathbb {HP} ^{2}} admits Riemannian metrics with higher systolic ratio s t s y s 4 2 / v o l 8 {\displaystyle \mathrm {stsys} _{4}{}^{2}/\mathrm {vol} _{8}} than for its symmetric metric (Bangert et al.
Differences bounded with high probability McDiarmid's inequality may be extended to the case where the function being analyzed does not strictly satisfy the bounded differences property, but large differences remain very rare.
History The inequality was first proved by Frigyes Riesz in 1930, and independently reproved by S.L.Sobolev in 1938.
Correspondingly, the lower bound in (1) is attained only for permutations σ {\displaystyle \sigma } that reverse the order of y 1 , … , y n , {\displaystyle y_{1},\ldots ,y_{n},} meaning that y σ ( 1 ) ≥ ⋯ ≥ y σ ( n ) .
{\displaystyle S=\sum _{j=1}^{n}\sum _{k=1}^{n}(a_{j}-a_{k})(b_{j}-b_{k}).} The two sequences are non-increasing, therefore aj − ak and bj − bk have the same sign for any j, k.
In mathematics, the Borell–Brascamp–Lieb inequality is an integral inequality due to many different mathematicians but named after Christer Borell, Herm Jan Brascamp and Elliott Lieb.
In general metric spaces Ptolemy's inequality holds more generally in any inner product space, and whenever it is true for a real normed vector space, that space must be an inner product space.
It can be shown that these inequalities are the best possible and that further sharpening of the bounds requires that additional restrictions be placed on the distributions.
Then ( ∑ i ∈ I ∖ I N | a i | q ) 1 / q ≤ ( ∑ i ∈ I | a i | p ) 1 / p 1 N r {\displaystyle \left(\sum _{i\in I\setminus I_{N}}|a_{i}|^{q}\right)^{1/q}\leq \left(\sum _{i\in I}|a_{i}|^{p}\right)^{1/p}{\frac {1}{N^{r}}}} where r = 1 p − 1 q > 0 {\displaystyle r={\frac {1}{p}}-{\frac {1}{q}}>0} .
Hoeffding proved this result for independent variables rather than martingale differences, and also observed that slight modifications of his argument establish the result for martingale differences (see page 9 of his 1963 paper).
In the mathematical theory of Kleinian groups, Jørgensen's inequality is an inequality involving the traces of elements of a Kleinian group, proved by Troels Jørgensen (1976).
Audenaert also proved that—given only the trace distance T and the dimension d—this is the optimal bound.
Conditional Hölder inequality Let (Ω, F, P {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} } ) be a probability space, G ⊂ F a sub-σ-algebra, and p, q ∈ (1, ∞) Hölder conjugates, meaning that 1/p + 1/q = 1.
{\displaystyle s(x)=\mathop {\mathrm {ess\,sup} } _{y\in \mathbb {R} ^{n}}f\left({\frac {x-y}{1-\lambda }}\right)^{1-\lambda }g\left({\frac {y}{\lambda }}\right)^{\lambda }.} Then s is measurable and ‖ s ‖ 1 ≥ ‖ f ‖ 1 1 − λ ‖ g ‖ 1 λ .
{\displaystyle \Psi ''_{\theta }(0)={\frac {d\mu _{\theta }}{d\theta }}\lim _{h\to 0}{\frac {h}{\tau }}.} Moreover, lim h → 0 Ψ θ ∗ ( μ θ + h ) h 2 = 1 2 Ψ θ ″ ( 0 ) ( d μ θ d θ ) 2 = 1 2 Var ⁡ ( X θ ) ( d μ θ d θ ) 2 .
Audenaert in 2007 as an optimal refinement of Mark Fannes' original inequality, which was published in 1973.
The terms ⟨ x , e k ⟩ {\displaystyle \langle x,e_{k}\rangle } are the Fourier coefficients of x {\displaystyle x} with respect to the sequence ( e k ) {\displaystyle (e_{k})} .
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmva.2021.104849 External links Biography of Leonid Vitalyevich Kantorovich
equal to 0, ‖ u ‖ L ∞ ( Ω ) ≤ C ‖ u ‖ H 1 ( Ω ) ( 1 + ( log ⁡ ( 1 + ‖ u ‖ H 2 ( Ω ) ‖ u ‖ H 1 ( Ω ) ) ) 1 / 2 ) .
Mathematical description Let {a1, a2,...} be a sequence of real numbers that is either nonincreasing or nondecreasing, and let {b1, b2,...} be a sequence of real or complex numbers.
(1978), "An inequality for the weights of two families of sets, their unions and intersections", Probability Theory and Related Fields, 43 (3): 183–185, CiteSeerX 10.1.1.380.8629, doi:10.1007/BF00536201, ISSN 0178-8051, MR 0491189, S2CID 120659862 Alon, N.; Spencer, J.
Triple less-than sign In PHP, operator <<<OUTPUT is used to denote the beginning of a heredoc statement (where OUTPUT is an arbitrary named variable.) In Bash, <<<word is used as a "here string", where word is expanded and supplied to the command on its standard input, similar to a heredoc.
Note that the base for the logarithm is arbitrary, so long as the same base is used on both sides of the inequality.
Equality holds in Popoviciu's inequality if and only if half of the aj are equal to the upper bounds and half of the aj are equal to the lower bounds.
(1974), Uniform distribution of sequences, New York: Wiley-Interscience [John Wiley & Sons], ISBN 978-0-486-45019-3, MR 0419394, Reprinted by Dover 2006
Korn's theorem is a quantitative version of this statement, which intuitively says that if the gradient of a vector field is on average not far from the space of skew-symmetric matrices, then the gradient must not be far from a particular skew-symmetric matrix.
It is similar to Jensen's inequality and was found in 1965 by Tiberiu Popoviciu, a Romanian mathematician.
Tightness of Bound Without loss of generality, assume α = 0 {\displaystyle \alpha =0} and ρ = 1 {\displaystyle \rho =1} .
{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{a+b}}+{\frac {1}{b+c}}+{\frac {1}{a+c}}\geq {\frac {(1+1+1)^{2}}{2(a+b+c)}}={\frac {9}{2(a+b+c)}}.} == References ==
Another way of using convexity is to re-cast the desired inequality to log ⁡ ( 1 + x ) ≥ 1 r log ⁡ ( 1 + r x ) {\displaystyle \log(1+x)\geq {\frac {1}{r}}\log(1+rx)} for real r ≥ 1 {\displaystyle r\geq 1} and real x > − 1 / r {\displaystyle x>-1/r} .
Finally, by another change of variables, the last expression equals ∫ 0 1 ( ∫ 0 ∞ f ( x ) p d x ) 1 / p s − 1 / p d s = p p − 1 ( ∫ 0 ∞ f ( x ) p d x ) 1 / p .
Then | λ 1 ( A ) ⋯ λ k ( A ) | ≤ σ 1 ( A ) ⋯ σ k ( A ) {\displaystyle |\lambda _{1}(A)\cdots \lambda _{k}(A)|\leq \sigma _{1}(A)\cdots \sigma _{k}(A)} For k = 1 , … , n {\displaystyle k=1,\ldots ,n} , with equality for k = n {\displaystyle k=n} .
Let M := [ A B B ∗ C ] {\displaystyle M:=\left[{\begin{matrix}A&B\\B^{*}&C\end{matrix}}\right]} so that M is a (p+q)×(p+q) matrix.
The 2022 Hulu series Under the Banner of Heaven (set in the 1980s) depicted the throat-slicing gesture of the pre-1990 LDS endowment ceremony.
Illness and death In his final years, Andrianov developed the degenerative neurological disorder multiple system atrophy and in his final months was unable to move his arms or legs or talk.
William Barlow made mischief by suggesting Parsons in any case was second fiddle to Robert Bellarmine.
The fable in the arts Jean Restout made a painting of La Fontaine's fable for the Hôtel de Soubise in 1738.
The voter's oath or affirmation, formerly the freemen's oath, is a citizen's oath or affirmation taken during voter registration in the U.S.
(A) Aham-pi: "Ārogyaparamā lābhā" ti maṭṭāmi, Tathāgataṁ upaṭṭhātukāmomhi, tasmāhaṁ mayhaṁ vejjakammena ārogyabhāvaṁ vaḍḍhemi ceva gilānaṁ hitāya dayena anukampāya upaṭṭhahāmi.
The vows are regarded as the individual's free response to a call by God to follow Jesus Christ more closely under the action of the Holy Spirit in a particular form of religious living.
lupaan ja vakuutan kaikkivaltiaan ja kaikkitietävän Jumalan edessä (vakuutuksessa: kunniani ja omantuntoni kautta), olevani Suomen valtakunnan luotettava ja uskollinen kansalainen.
Amrik "Mik" Basi MBE (born 21 May 1966 in Forest Gate in east London) is a British boxing referee based at Fairbairn Boxing Club in Manor Park in the London Borough of Newham.
The islanders were angered by the increasingly harsh imperialism of Athens and attempted to take advantage of the defeat of Athens in the Battle of Coronea in neighbouring Boeotia (c.
For example, Sir Thomas More opposed the King's separation from the Roman Catholic Church in the English Reformation and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England, a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
Notes References External links Text of the False Oaths (Scotland) Act 1933 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
Connections Rituals involving the sacrifice of horses in a similar manner to the sea-god Poseidon Hippios are also attested, and might have influenced the horse-sacrificing rituals to Helios.
She participated in the 1968 Winter Olympics, placing fourteenth (tied) in the 1500 metres and seventeenth in the 3000 metres.
This was vowed to James before the battle by Ramiro I of Asturias in Calahorra, offering Saint James part of the booty taken from the Moors along with the first fruits and crops from each year's harvest as an ex voto.
Schweizer feels that as with the previous verse Jesus is countering the belief that swearing by things other than God is not equivalent to swearing by God.
This was largely aimed at the oligarchic wealthy who hoped to gain the assistance of Sparta or Persia in their revolts.
They met eight times in the finals of major international championships and Medved won on all occasions.
It is traditional for officers to recite the oath upon promotion but as long as the officer's service is continuous this is not required.
He is one of the most successful sailors at Olympic Games and one of the most successful Brazilian Olympic athletes, being one of only two to earn five medals along with fellow sailor Torben Grael, and only behind the six medals of Rebeca Andrade.
The brothers and sisters of the new and former grand dukes, with their respective spouses, as well as the entourages of His Majesty the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess, were also present at the event.
New citizens take an oath to that effect at the end of their naturalization process: The oath in Italian is: Giuro di essere fedele alla Repubblica e di osservare la Costituzione e le leggi dello Stato.
Kosciuszko stated the council was formed of "...virtuous citizens and friends of the people, and when I nominated them, I did not want to think about whether they are peasants, burghers or aristocrats.".
Release on recognizance is sometimes abbreviated as RoR, OR (own recognizance, particularly in the United States), or PR (personal recognizance).
TG Xers retired his number 9 jersey, a legacy inherited by its current successor team Wonju DB Promy.
It is certainly not open to this Court to rewrite the oath required by Los Angeles of its employees..." The lack of an explicit requirement for scienter in the law, he concluded, asked the employees "to swear to something they cannot be expected to know.
Section 1 of the act required all officers to take the oath required by the Oaths of Allegiance and Supremacy Act 1688 (1 Will.
These achievements won her fame and drew the attention of martial arts superstar Jackie Chan who sponsored her while promoting his film Shanghai Noon in the United Kingdom.
senators that are not President Pro Tempore of the Senate (last in 1969) 5 times, the speaker of the United States House of Representatives (last in 2005) 4 times, a U.S.
IOC 1984 Summer Olympics USA Gymnastics January 2007 selection of judges for the 2007 Elite season, including Weber.
Ogiwara's twin brother Tsugiharu competed with him at the 1995 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships in Thunder Bay, Ontario, sharing a gold with him in the 4 x 5 km team event.
After the death of President Paul von Hindenburg on 2 August, a referendum was passed on 19 August, with 88.1% voting to confirm the merger of the post of President with that of Chancellor, and Hitler became Führer und Reichskanzler.
On multiple occasions, the state attempted to revoke the Church's tax-free status in order to tap into its significant financial resources, with official declarations calling for formal surveys of the Church's wealth and subsequent taxations being levied in 1749 and 1780.
Because his weight and height exceeded the Optimist recommendations, he began sailing in the Snipe class, and was second at the 1989 Brazilian Snipe Junior Championship, and champion in 1990, 1991 and 1992.
For a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 5:35-36 Analysis Jesus quotes Isaiah 66:1 in the previous verse to tell his followers not to swear by Heaven.
During the campaign Cartier had fallen ill with Bright's disease, which may have been causing his judgment to lapse; he died in May 1873 while seeking treatment in London.
The Aufruf was printed in the Völkischer Beobachter, the Nazi party newspaper, on 18 August 1934, the day before a plebiscite to confirm the merger of the offices of President (the head of state), and Chancellor (the head of government), in the person of Adolf Hitler.
The people of Moguer greeted them happily; Columbus and his crew headed promptly to the Santa Clara Monastery to light a taper and spend the night in vigil, in fulfilment of one of their vows.
Before facing the Minotaur Theseus promised a thank offering to Apollo in rewards for favoring him during his quest.
The use of dull colors is to show the importance of the story behind the painting over the painting itself.
(2) The pledge of loyalty is to be in the following form: Under God, I pledge my loyalty to Australia and to the people of New South Wales.
Adoption of the pledge was a project of Myron Walwyn, the territory's Minister for Education and Culture.
The Halieia (Ancient Greek: Ἁλίεια, Halíeia) or Halia was one of the principal festivals celebrated on the island of Rhodes in honour of their patron god Helios, the Sun.
Some have interpreted the commandment to be against perjury, since invoking God's name in an oath was considered a guarantee of the truth of a statement or promise.
Trying to pass Swedish troops unexposed, he rode with only a small host from Silesia through Carpathian Mountains, finally reaching Lwów in March 1656.
See also List of multiple Olympic gold medalists References External links Zhang Yining world ranking record at the ITTF ITTF Stats for Zhang Yining
Jag skall ock med liv och blod försvara det Konungsliga väldet samt Riksdagens rättigheter; allt i överensstämmelse med Rikets Grundlagar, dem jag till alla delar skall lyda och efterkomma.
The Lwów Oath (Polish: Śluby lwowskie) was an oath made on April 1, 1656 by Polish king John II Casimir in the Latin Cathedral of the city of Lwów (today Lviv, western Ukraine).
The subject was addressed again in 1994, when the House of Commons Standing Committee on Citizenship and Immigration examined changes to the Citizenship Act.
The location of the declaration/attestation, and the words used, make no difference to the extent of the constable's jurisdiction.
In 1768 the Reverend James Webb was tried in the Court of King's Bench for saying Mass but was acquitted, the Chief Justice, Lord Mansfield, ruling that there was no evidence sufficient to convict.
She uses a specially made Zhang Yining ZLC for her blade made by butterfly, and tenergy 05 for forehand and tenergy 64 for her backhand.
Autocratic and overbearing, he commanded rather than persuaded, and since he became attorney-general in 1783, his influence in Irish government was immense.
An affirmation has exactly the same legal effect as an oath but is usually taken to avoid the religious implications of an oath; it is thus legally binding but not considered a religious oath.
They may be activated in the service of their state in time of local or state emergency in addition to federal activation.
In Virgil he is the grandfather of Latinus, the son of Sol's daughter Circe who lived not far from Rome at Monte Circeo.
The vice president's swearing-in ceremony also moved that year, from the Senate chamber inside the Capitol, to the presidential inaugural platform outside the building.
In comparison to the older oath, the younger text shows that the Hittite pantheon was increasingly influenced by Hurrian gods.
October Equus), the Halieia also included a ritual, that took place on the 24th day of the summer month of Gorpiaeus, where the Rhodians sacrificed to the god a team of four white horses, by driving a four-horse chariot, representing the chariot of the sun, into the sea.
The oath sworn to Hitler by members of the Schutzstaffel (SS) predated that of the 1934 Wehrmacht oath and may have served as an inspiration or model for it.
Voreadis has, from time to time, given interviews and made public statements criticizing both the shortcomings of Greek basketball and the actions of the Hellenic Basketball Federation.
Justice Thomas Au Hing-cheung said he would deliver his ruling "as soon as practicable" in the light of the possibility of the interpretation of the Basic Law by the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC).
In some common law nations, a recognizance is a conditional pledge of money made by a person before a court.
14) You should not tell what you have learned from the time you enter a woman's room, and, moreover, you should not have obscene or immoral feelings when examining a woman.
Tsuzaki took the Officials' Oath at the Opening Ceremony of the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan, becoming the first female water polo referee to be given the honour.
Lee Hak-Rae (born 1938) is a retired South Korean judoka and sport official best known for taking the Judge's Oath at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul.
In 2000, he was elected the first Chairman of the Laureus World Sports Academy, an international service organization of world-class athletes.
The Disney versions of the Titans also appear in various games in the Disney-Square Enix video game franchise Kingdom Hearts.
In modern law, covenant is described as "a promise or agreement under consideration, or guarantee between two parties" and is distinguished from modern contract by the seal or symbol of guarantee.
The Baljuna Covenant was an oath sworn in mid-1203 AD by Temüjin—the khan of the Mongol tribe and the future Genghis Khan—and a small group of companions, subsequently known as the Baljunatu.
When she stepped up to the podium, she took off her silver medal "in disgust" as a protest against the judges' decision; she was booed by the crowd.
I will apply, for the benefit of the sick, all measures [that] are required, avoiding those twin traps of overtreatment and therapeutic nihilism.
Should an offender not pay the fine or give security, they were to be imprisoned in the house of correction for ten days of hard labour; if a soldier or seaman, they were to be set in the stocks for an hour (or for two hours, for multiple offences).
78, sometimes called the Unlawful Oaths (Ireland) Act 1844, the Unlawful Oaths Continuance Act, or the Unlawful Oaths Act.
At a meeting in the Cabinet Room, Chief Justice Harlan Stone, apparently mistaken about the meaning of Truman's middle initial (which is not an abbreviation but rather the whole middle name in itself), began reading the oath by saying "Do you, Harry Shipp Truman, ..." Truman responded: "I, Harry S.
As of 2013, Zakharov's best performance at the World Championships came in 2008, when placed 8th in the 1500 metres.
One interviewee revealed that the writers for the ITV police drama series The Bill had consciously and directly drawn on Medea in writing an episode for the series.
presidents are free to either swear or affirm the inaugural oath of office, only one president has chosen to affirm.
2002 – The Warsaw's Grand Theatre features a quadriga reflecting the original Antonio Corazzi's 1833 plans for the building, but not commissioned and executed until 2002.
Circuit Court, administered the oath to Millard Fillmore on July 10, 1850, when he became president after the death of Zachary Taylor.
In the 500 metres and 1000 metres, he placed fourth in his round one heat, failing to advance, and in the 1500 metres, he placed sixth, also failing to advance.
In these systems, when decisory oaths are allowed, they must be requested (or "referred") by the opposing party; having requested the oath, the requesting party is bound by it and is not permitted to present any proof that it is false.
Having done this, the electronically submitted return is considered to have the same legal effect as if the taxpayer had actually and physically signed the return.
Since 1990, the autonomous political party of the Lega Nord has annually organized a meeting at Pontida that celebrates the eponymous medieval oath.
High school Born in Cairo, Georgia, Edwards attended Cairo High School, where she was a four-year starter.
A jurat (short for Latin juratum (est), "it has been sworn", 3rd singular perfect passive of jurare, "to swear") is a clause at the foot of an affidavit showing when, where, and before whom the actual oath was sworn or affirmation was made.
A person without the ability to pay court costs, also known as "being indigent", has the option to swear a pauper's oath to file a lawsuit without paying filing fees.
Keiichi Suzuki (鈴木 惠一, Suzuki Keiichi; 10 November 1942 – 21 January 2025) was a Japanese speed skater.
Today swearing in public is often dealt with by the police and courts under section 5 of the Public Order Act 1986.
During a derby game between Olympiakos and Panathinaikos in the Greek Basketball League game in 2002, he was struck by a projectile thrown by an Olympiakos fan and was comforted by colleague Nikos Papadimitriou.
In the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Yamagata was part of the 4 × 100 m relay team for Japan, which took the silver medal in the final.
Members of the judiciary (justices of the peace, district judges, circuit judges etc.) swear their allegiance to the king and his heirs and successors; police officers in England and Wales pledge their allegiance to the king, but not his heirs and successors.
After the walkout, as pro-Beijing lawmakers met the media, explaining the rationale behind their action, radical democrat legislator "Long Hair" Leung Kwok-hung of the League of Social Democrats (LSD) threw luncheon meat at them in protest.
Until the early twentieth century all official state commissions and certificates were headed by the words "BY THE FREEMEN OF VERMONT." Freemen's Oath The original oath read as follows: § 42.
The statement followed similar public statements by others such as writers and poets (the Gelöbnis treuester Gefolgschaft in October 1933) and university professors (the Bekenntnis der deutschen Professoren zu Adolf Hitler, in November 1933).
Most of these writings, however, argue the event in a rather vague way, without describing the details: neither the locations nor the precise dates of the signing of the pacts are mentioned.
Contents The constitution advanced the imperial pretensions in the city of Rome, but also established a system to check the power of the nobles.
In popular culture Geas, geis and derivative words and concepts have appeared in a variety of forms in popular culture.
Together they won the bronze medal at the 1948 Winter Olympics and the 1948 World Figure Skating Championships.
Competing in four Summer Olympics, he earned three bronze medals (Individual épée: 1928, Team foil: 1932, Team épée: 1932) A native of Boston, Massachusetts, Calnan did not start fencing until he was a student at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.
We will respect and protect the dignity of each person, And stand up for justice We sincerely declare that we shall uphold the rights and values of our Constitution And promise to act in accordance with the duties and responsibilities that flow from these rights.
Subsequent developments The whole act by section 7(1) of, and part I of the schedule to, the Oaths Act 1978, which consolidated the act.
Upon Andrew's request, Pope Gregory IX allowed the investigation of the separation of non-Christians to take place once every two years.
The Skira is the setting for Aristophanes' comedy Ecclesiazusae (393 BCE), in which the women seize the opportunity afforded by the festival, to hatch their plot to overthrow male domination.
From at least December 2020, the sculpture was behind a security fence and the fountain was not operating.
He competed at the 1964, 1968, and 1972 Winter Olympics in the 500 m and 1500 m events with his best result being fifth place in the 500 m in 1964.
The first tablet is only preserved in fragments (KBo XXI 10, KUB XL 13, and minor fragments), the second tablet survives in three copies, and can be restituted almost completely.
Promise: A commitment made by a witness under the age of 17, or of all witnesses if none of the accused are over the age of 17.
Son Mi-na (Korean: 손미나; born October 8, 1964) is a South Korean team handball player and Olympic champion.
Early life Billingsley was born to James and Wenonah (Willing) Billingsley in Erie, Pennsylvania, on December 2, 1926.
It also prohibited Catholics under 21 from going abroad without licence, to help enforce the prohibition in the Education Act 1695 (7 Will.
Eligibility reforms In 1979 Moses took a leave of absence from his job with General Dynamics to devote himself to running full-time.
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the schedule to, the Promissory Oaths Act 1871 (34 & 35 Vict.
In the case of an electronically filed tax return, the taxpayer has to provide certain specific information—a social security number for example—to "sign" the jurat.
She is one of the daughters of Erechtheus, one of the Hyacinthides who sacrificed herself to save the city.
Competing in two Winter Olympics, his best finish was 15th in the Nordic combined event at Chamonix in 1924.
Ono was the flag bearer for Japan at the 1960 Olympics, and took the Olympic Oath at the 1964 Games.
He has a rivalry with speed skater Shani Davis, who has been faster in all four 1000 m races in the 2009–10 season.
The Poor Clares constitute the second branch of the Order of Friars Minor, founded in the thirteenth century by Clare of Assisi under the inspiration of Francis of Assisi.
Hilary of Poitiers: Otherwise; They who live in the simplicity of the faith have not need to swear, with them ever, what is is, what is not is not; by this their life and their conversation are ever preserved in truth.
Almost eighty years later, in the wake of the Second World War, Emperor Shōwa paid homage to the Oath and reaffirmed it as the basis of "national polity" in his Imperial Rescript on National Revitalization.
He also won a gold medal as a member of the Russian relay team at the 2013 European Championships, and placed 3rd in the overall competition at the 2011 European Championships.
The Novum Testamentum Graece text is: ἔστω δὲ ὁ λόγος ὑμῶν ναὶ ναί, οὒ οὔ τὸ δὲ περισσὸν τούτων ἐκ τοῦ πονηροῦ ἐστιν.
A breach of the oath can also be seen as an act punishable by the denial of the offender's ability to sit in the House of Commons.
Tamata are usually small metal plaques, which may be of base or precious metal, usually with an embossed image symbolizing the subject of prayer for which the plaque is offered.
In Roman Catholicism, a declaration of faith may be used in various circumstances, both for purpose of conversion and of reaffirmation.
The text, states Arnold, contains many verses relating to women's sexual health, suggesting "great antiquity of certain methods and therapeutic agents used in the treatment of gynecological cases", for example, the cautery, pessaries, and astringent washes.
While he would emphasize that the outcome of the debate would encourage some of the actions that Adolf Hitler would take, these were most likely to draw away from the Conservative Party's support of Neville Chamberlain's acts of appeasement.
The team won their opening round games fairly easily, with the closest of the first three games a 27-point victory over Czechoslovakia.
He wrote: "To find scienter implied in a criminal statute is the obvious way of reading such a statute, for guilty knowledge is the normal ingredient of criminal responsibility.
The act was the culmination of a campaign by the noted atheist and secularist MP Charles Bradlaugh to take his seat.
In the customary law of Nigeria, a person may swear a juju oath calling for themselves to be struck dead within the year if they are speaking falsely.
The Atlantic points out that many non-incumbent candidates are unable to attract corporate donations, so making the pledge is mostly symbolic.
After publication of the 1917 Code, many institutes with simple vows appealed to the Holy See for permission to make solemn vows.
In these situations the oath of office was administered to the new president as quickly as possible, as doing so allowed the presidency to continue uninterrupted.
He compares it to Strabo's reference to a nameless god of the Celtiberians, and Lucan's poetic description in the Pharsalia of Gauls dreading gods whom they do not know.
References External links DatabaseOlympics.com profile IOC 1972 Summer Olympics Wallechinsky, David (1984).
Susan Du reported the injury occurred while Bonaly was practicing her backflip, although there were other reports that the injury occurred during an exhibition performance.
The weights of intact arm and neck rings are always multiples of mercantile units, further supporting their usage as a form of wearable currency.
Guillaume V, Grand Duke of Luxembourg On 8 October 2024, as had been announced by Grand Duke Henri on his Official Birthday that year, Guillaume was appointed as lieutenant representative (regent).
International competitions Sources 1968 athletics marathon men's results 1968 Men's marathon results (in French) IOC 1968 Summer Olympics Pablo Garrido's profile at Sports Reference.com == References ==
Avenger of two free peoples, I had only one regret, that the same blow could not strike the head of all tyrants.Finally, there were Father François-Toussaint Villers, deputy from Loire-Inférieure, and Father Claude-Alexandre Ysabeau, deputy from Indre-et-Loire.
It established a single uniform oath to be taken by future monarchs at their coronation, and also established that this oath was to be taken by William III and Mary II when they were crowned.
Section one to end of subsection (1) and the schedules to the act was repealed by section 1 of, and schedule 1 to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1883 (46 & 47 Vict.
References Aachen information on Schüller Heidi Schüller at IMDb IOC 1972 Summer Olympics Wallechinsky, David (1984).
Rechelle Margaret Hawkes (born 30 May 1967 in Albany, Western Australia) is an Australian former field hockey player.
See also Flag of South Korea Korean ethnic nationalism March of the Volunteers, National Flag Anthem of the Republic of China - 民族 is included in the lyrics Oath of allegiance == References ==
On another note, this gold would have represented for the city of Athens more than a year's salary for 10,000 skilled workers, more than a year's pay for 10,000 hoplites or 10,000 rowers in the war fleet.
The Black Oath was a 1639 oath that Scots in Ulster who were over the age of 16 were required to take under penalty of a fine or imprisonment.
Pollay took the Judge's Oath at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, the first for an official in the Summer Olympics to do so.
Ryota Yamagata (山縣 亮太, Yamagata Ryōta; born 10 June 1992) is a Japanese sprinter holding the Japanese record of 9.95 in the 100m.
Opposition party the Freedom Front Plus describing the pledge as an attempt by the African National Congress to instill a "permanent guilty complex" in schoolchildren.
When the festival on 25 December was instituted is not clear, which makes it hard to assess what impact (if any) it had on the establishment of Christmas.
Romano Torriani played for EHC Basel and HC Davos, and Marco played for EHC Basel and SC Langnau Tigers, and later became president of Genève-Servette HC.
Unlawful Oaths Acts may be a generic name either for legislation bearing that short title or for all legislation which relates to the unlawful oaths.
The corresponding affirmation is: Yr wyf i, yn datgan ac yn cadarnhau yn ddifrifol, yn ddiffuant ac yn ddidwyll y byddaf yn ffyddlon ac yn wir deyrngar i'w Fawrhydi y Brenin Siarl, ei etifeddion a'i olynwyr, yn ôl y gyfraith.
"Osservazioni sulla Constitutio Romana e sull Sacramentum Cleri et Populi Romani dell'anno 824." Studi medievali in onore di Antonino de Stefano.
The Netherlands Another famous abjuration was brought about by the Plakkaat van Verlatinghe of July 26, 1581, the formal Act of Abjuration or declaration of independence of the Low Countries from the Spanish king, Philip II.
Second, Black believed that the majority's decision in Garner significantly weakened the Court's holdings in Ex parte Garland, Cummings v.
With this podium, he also became the first Brazilian athlete to win a medal in four consecutive Olympic Games.
c.10 Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866 Promissory Oaths Act 1871, Schedule 1 Part 1 Secondary Everett, Michael; Nash, Danielle (26 February 2016).
In the gospels, the women are described as coming to the empty tomb "εις μια των σαββατων", which literally means "toward the first of the sabbath" and is often translated "on the first day of the week".
Notes References External links Hansard, Introduction of the Oaths Bill, 23 March 1978 Hansard, Second Reading of the Oaths Bill, 11 April 1978 Hansard, Royal Assent to Oaths Bill, 30 June 1978
48) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that repealed for the United Kingdom enactments relating to promissory oaths from 1346 to 1867 which had ceased to be in force or had become unnecessary.
Along with similar celebrations, educational stationary was also distributed in Vadodara to the school children.
The Prime Minister of New Zealand Helen Clark argued that the coup should be resisted by citizens, pointing to the oath of allegiance: "You owe it to your oath of allegiance to the Fiji constitution to act to stop this act of mutiny," she said.
The battle had resulted from his refusal to pay the Tribute of 100 Damsels to the Emirate of Córdoba.
He is well known for his specialty throws, Uchi Mata (内股, inner thigh throw) and Ōuchi gari (大内刈, major inner reap).
Engravings by Chauveau Later productions 1655: Andromède was revived at the Théâtre du Marais with machinery and sets designed by Denis Buffequin.
Thank you for understanding." As a result of this judging error in particular, emphasis may be switching to having electronic scoring equipment contained within the actual body protectors themselves, and many tournaments are now using these in trial phase.
The complex at Har Senaim has been suggested to be a cult site or funerary garden and compared to the high places mentioned in the Books of Kings.
However, several places still resisted, most remarkably (and symbolically) the monastery at Jasna Góra (November 1655 to January 1656).
At the forefront of the oath, then, is the distillation of the core principle of the Glorious Revolution of 1688, namely an assertion of the constitutional supremacy of Parliament, a principle that remains the basis of public law in the United Kingdom.
Next to the Senate, at the southeastern corner stood the monumental Chalkē Gate, the entrance to the imperial palace precinct, while to the southwest stood the great Baths of Zeuxippus and the northern end of the Hippodrome.
Around six House Democrats that took the pledge used a shell PAC to obfuscate that they were receiving corporate PAC money.
Unlawful Oaths Act (with its variations) is a stock short title used for legislation in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland relating to unlawful oaths.
These may be represented either as flat, on the same plane as the circlet of the crown, or rising at right angles to it.
One of her trademarks was performing a series of alternating clockwise and counterclockwise single Axels.
32, sometimes called the Unlawful Oaths (Ireland) Act 1862, the Unlawful Oaths (Ireland) Act Continuance Act, the Unlawful Oaths Continuance Act, or the Unlawful Oaths Act.
The pledge was first publicly recited on 1 July 2016 at Territory Day celebrations by Premier Orlando Smith and members of the government.
A member of Real Club Náutico de Gran Canaria, Doreste became World champion in 1985 (Flying Dutchman), and again in 1995 (Soling).
In 2007, the law was amended to make it easier to administer this oath or affirmation; instead of being administered only by notaries public and similar officials, the oath may be administered by nearly anyone, including the applicant.
Years later, Blomberg admitted that he did not think through the full implications of the oath at the time.
Around 10 o'clock in the Old Town square in Kraków, the Act of Insurrection was read by Kraków's Sejm representative.
Bonaly came in fifth place at the 1990 Skate America, in third place at the 1990 Skate Electric, and won the gold medal at the 1990 Grand Prix International de Paris and at the 1990 Nebelhorn Trophy.
For a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 5:37 Analysis The exact meaning of this verse is much disputed.
The oath was required of all free men, and its renewal was regularly demanded by the king to demonstrate the aristocracy's adherence to his authority.
External links Linguistics Handbook Downloads – Audio samples of The North Wind and the Sun in various languages, from the International Phonetic Association.
For his ski jumping efforts, Falkanger was awarded the Holmenkollen medal in 1952 (Shared with Stein Eriksen, Heikki Hasu and Nils Karlsson.) Falkanger also took the Olympic Oath at the 1952 games in Oslo.
Custom Recitation of the Panatà is required by law at all public and private educational institutions.
He officiated the finals of the Saporta Cup and the Korać Cup in 2002, within 15 days of each other.
Macdonald relented and appointed a five-member committee to investigate the allegations the next day, with conservative member of the House of Commons for Cardwell John Hillyard Cameron appointed to chair the committee investigating the Pacific Scandal.
When Fianna Fáil was founded in 1926 by veterans of the losing anti-Treaty side in the Civil War, abolishing the oath was a core aim.
First, he was forced to swear never to harm Erwig's children when Erwig gave him his daughter in marriage.
A world champion in 2001, Stevenson won her country's first ever Olympic medal in taekwondo, a bronze, at the 2008 Games in Beijing, her third Olympic competition for Great Britain.
Original wording, 1791 The original Test taken by members of the Society of United Irishmen was written by the Belfast physician William Drennan.
He wished them also to reverse the Thirteenth Council's canon protecting Erwig's family, but the bishops refused, saying that that canon did not protect them from just penalties.
Ogiwara received the Holmenkollen medal in 1995, becoming the first non-European and first Asian to ever receive the honor.
McDermott's international career consisted exclusively of the 500 m at the Olympic Winter Games of 1960, 1964 and 1968.
The vow of enclosure is a religious vow made by some branches of the Poor Clares in addition to the three vows of obedience, poverty and chastity.
Context-sensitive menus allow a single remote control to control not only LinuxMCE menus, but also audiovisual device functions.
Scammers aim to steal sensitive personal information, such as Aadhaar numbers, Bank details by pretending to be legitimate authorities.
Providers are expected to implement Voice over IP to replace copper PSTN voice and ISDN connections.
The Internet Security Research Group (ISRG) is a public-benefit non-profit corporation based in California which focuses on Internet security.
Bush administration officials such as the Attorney General defended the program by citing that this was a part of the justification that the Clinton administration used in its warrantless search of Aldrich Ames.
Morse's 1840 telegraph patent described such a register as consisting of a lever holding an armature on one end, opposite an electromagnet, with a fountain pen, pencil or other marking instrument on the other end, and a clockwork mechanism to advance a paper recording tape under the marker.
A GSM phone encrypts all communications content using an encryption key stored on its SIM card with a copy stored at the service provider.
Multilevel precedence and preemption The AUTOVON system provided a facility for placing calls with multilevel precedence and preemption (MLPP).
A standard tetrapolar telephone plug in electronics and telecommunications, has four round metal pins and one plastic pin.
In general, the Title expands federal agencies' powers in intercepting, sharing, and using private telecommunications, especially electronic communications, along with a focus on criminal investigations by updating the rules that govern computer crime investigations.
DECT has almost completely replaced other standards in most countries where it is used, with the exception of North America.
List of LATAs US state LATAs The city or place name given with some LATAs is the name given to identify the LATA, not the limit of its boundary.
They can draw power from their own battery, from a telephone exchange (via a central battery known as CB), or from an external power source.
The company’s initial products focused on automating inbound and outbound calls for contact center environments.
South Atlantic cable routes See also Cable layer List of international submarine communications cables References External links Hayes, Jeremiah (September 2008).
The company’s digital subscriber line, communications processors and other products were used in customer premises equipment from network equipment manufacturers and telecommunications service providers.
A voice modem is an analog telephone data modem with a built-in capability of transmitting and receiving voice recordings over the phone line.
Most stepping switches rotate the wipers in only one direction, but some are bidirectional; the latter have a second magnet to rotate the wipers the other way.
The equivalent power of a multichannel signal referred to the zero transmission level point is a function of the number of channels and has for its basis a specified voice channel mean power.
In 1998 the building was purchased by Boxer Properties of Houston for $1.5 million, and in 2017 the building was acquired by Stark Office Suites for $4.3 million.
Ikanos Communications, Incorporated was a provider of semiconductor and software products for use in homes.
In the United States the feature was developed by AT&T in the 1960s, patterned upon the earlier IKZ service of the Deutsche Bundespost in Germany.
It is distinct from a phantom circuit in which the return current path for power or signaling is provided through different signal conductors.
Toll, in the telecom industry, refers to a charge collected by either an Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier, or a Competitive Local Exchange Carrier on a telephone call.
History Computer conferencing was first pioneered in Michigan on CONFER, PicoSpan, E-Forum, Caucus and Participate.
For the European market, Cable Europe Labs, maintains a separate, but equivalent effort, EuroPacketCable, based on European network implementations.
PMD: Format co-created by Qualcomm and Japanese company Faith which can include MIDI, sampled (PCM) audio, static graphics, animation, text, vibration and LED events.
Plot The bed-ridden Mrs Stevenson hears on a telephone, due to crossed wires, that a murder is being plotted to occur tonight.
Some virtual phone cards allow customers to view their call detail reports (CDRs) online by logging into their account.
Simplex signaling (SX) is signaling in which two conductors are used for a single telecommunication circuit, and a center-tapped coil, or its equivalent, is used to split the signaling current equally between the two conductors.
The CIA officials, who had initially cited national security concerns in an attempt to delay publication, no longer had those worries, according to individuals familiar with the exchange.
In a digital transmission system, the data is first converted into a digital format and then transmitted over a communication channel.
The exchange provides dial tone at that time to indicate to the user that the exchange is ready to receive dialed digits.
Army in 1942, then eventually turned over to government and crown corporation entities; Prince Rupert City Tel remains the only ILEC not associated with either New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, P.E.I.
It was designed at the Advanced Technology Center (Stamford, Connecticut and then Shelton, Connecticut.) Manufacturing was by ITT's subsidiaries such as BTM in Belgium, where the first production system was installed at Brecht in August 1982.
The operational range is limited, usually to the same building or within some short distance from the base station.
A telephone exchange, telephone switch, or central office is a central component of a telecommunications system in the public switched telephone network (PSTN) or in large enterprises.
The app translates the text back into speech and sends it back to the doll, who answers after around a one-second delay.
The first public prepaid remote memory phonecard was issued in the United States in December 1980 by Phone Line.
The included vendor affiliation programme made the operators able to work closely with the associate members, who were all telecommunication vendors.
"The impact of the USA Patriot Act on collection and analysis of personal information under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act" (PDF).
Permanent signal (PS) in American telephony terminology, or permanent loop in British usage, is a condition in which a POTS line is off-hook without connection for an extended period of time.
In popular culture The American synth-pop band Information Society featured a track entitled "300bps N, 8, 1 (Terminal Mode or Ascii Download)" on their album Peace and Love, Inc.
See also Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit Fusion center PRISM (surveillance program) TURBINE (US government project) Notes External links National Capital Region LINX Archived 2014-03-22 at the Wayback Machine NCIS website
However, KLondike was used for 55x in San Francisco and Columbus, Ohio, and WRigley 5 (975) in Chicago (Wrigley Field).
History Paul Murphy, Clarify CEO and founder said the idea came out of another business that he founded in 2011, called CallTrunk.
Opt, Susan K., "The Development of Rural Wired Radio Systems in Upstate South Carolina", Journal of Radio Studies 1, (1992), pages 71–81.
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) False base station attacks are prevented by a combination of key freshness and integrity protection of signaling data, not by authenticating the serving network.
Phoner provides as well an interface for configuring and using all supplementary ISDN services provided via CAPI and thus needs an ISDN terminal adapter hardware installed in the computer.
To overcome this restriction for the purpose of achieving lower costs for consumers, and to make a profit in the process, many small parties set up VoIP routers in homes and offices around India.
Handset symbol A graphic symbol that designates a handset is used on cordless and mobile phones to specify placing or ending a telephone call.
Bill and keep (B&K or BAK), also known as net payment zero, is a pricing arrangement for the interconnection (direct or indirect) of two telecommunications networks under which the reciprocal call termination charge is zero.
Some of the frequencies used are now part of the expanded AM radio band, and can be heard by anyone with an AM radio.
During the middle 20th Century, markers in Bell System exchanges acquired other functions that were only needed once or twice per telephone call, including outgoing digit translation and enforcement of different policies upon different classes of service in the provision of features to customers.
Mission ACG's stated mission is "to benefit both its members and the consumer by facilitating efficient production and marketing of devices as well as increased competition.
The end of the fiber pigtail is stripped and fusion spliced to a single fiber of a multi-fiber trunk.
Such an arrangement acts to remove the wholesale cost barrier to retail pricing for off-network calls and has been proven to result in significantly higher levels of calling activity.
Sorry, Wrong Number is a 1958 Australian television play based on Lucille Fletcher's radio play Sorry, Wrong Number.
UK Film Review's Hannah Sayer summarizes the artistic style of the film in her review: "There is a real sense that this is a collaborative exploration of creativity: of the old and the new, the past and the present, and the traditional and the digital.
A mobile phone does not require a base station and communicates directly with a cell site in designated frequency bands.
Its mobile clients are published under the 2-clause BSD License, while its server software is published under a modified, patent-protected Business Source License.
Telegrafix never published their Bezier algorithm or a complete RIPscrip specification, thus forcing developers wishing to implement RIPscrip to purchase Telegrafix's expensive developers kit, containing pre-compiled BGI wrapper DLLs.
Sound waves are carried as mechanical vibrations along the string or wire from one diaphragm to the other.
Instead, phone companies will retain the data and the NSA can obtain information about targeted individuals with permission from a federal court.
Secretaries melted seals, and a team of stenographers worked in parallel to make copies of the letters.
was a leading manufacturer of easy-to-use fax modems and other telecommunications products for Apple's Macintosh platform.
Initial sales, particularly in Europe and Mexico, were strong, but the new system took longer than expected to integrate, with further losses.
In technical control facilities, the vertical side may be used to terminate equipment as well as outside lines.
The main function of the card was the processing of incoming digital audio to detect the speech patterns using speaker independent speech recognition.
SX signaling may be one-way, for intra-central-office use, or the simplex legs may be connected to form full-duplex signaling circuits that function like composite (CX) signaling circuits with E&M lead control.
A fiber pigtail is a single, short, usually tight-buffered, optical fiber that has an optical connector pre-installed on one end and a length of exposed fiber at the other end.
Technology implications Having a concentrator near a subscriber's telephone results in very low signal degradation before the analog signal is digitized.
No such consideration is made for black, blue, or brown, or their potential abbreviations of B, Bl, or Br.
This was not necessary where the originating exchange had a register large enough to store both an area code and a subscriber number.
In the US the cables were predominantly L-carrier coaxial multiplex built by AT&T, who also used them to carry about one third of all civilian long-distance calls, as their capacity was much higher than the military needed.
21 October 1915: First transmission of speech across the Atlantic Ocean by radiotelephone from Arlington, Virginia to Paris, France.
External links See Telcordia GR-1299-CORE, for Service Control Point/Adjunct Interface generic requirements.
Amid a sharp decline in Macintosh sales in the late 1990s, Global Village sold itself to Boca Research in June 1998.
Causes Ghost calls are generally caused by a neglected autodialer or indirectly as a consequence of restrictions applied to autodialers used for telemarketing by agencies such as the FCC that restrict how long they can tie up a phone line; the call is disconnected automatically at the calling end.
Typically the "Intercept" or "IC" SIT is used, indicating the number called has been disconnected or changed.
The PRX205 (PRX/A) is a processor controlled reed relay telephone exchange developed by Philips Telecommunicatie Industrie BV (PTI) in Hilversum during the late 1960s and early 1970s.
SpeechCycle develops complex self-service applications for troubleshooting and technical support of subscriber's services in the cable operator's space, such as high speed internet, cable TV, and VoIP-based telephony services.
The trouble report is then sent to the Front End via the Datakit network, where a Basic Output Report is requested (usually by a screening agent or lineman).
The act expands the authority of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to require voice service providers to implement caller ID authentication technologies like STIR/SHAKEN.
The Western Electric 302-type telephone was the first widely used Bell System telephone to include the ringer and other subscriber set components inside the housing of the telephone set.
This was driven by a rapidly growing housing sector that was creating the "greenfield" customers that are needed to make fiber to the home profitable.
The subscriber set interfaced a telephone set to the telephone network, while magneto generators were used in a manual exchange to generate a remote ring signal.
In the direction from the network to the customer premises (downstream), the digital bearer channels may consist of full-duplex low-speed bearer channels and simpler high-speed bearer channels; in the other (upstream) direction, only low-speed bearer channels are provided.
Taken with the baud rate of 4,000 per second per subcarrier, the maximum throughput is just over 1.5 Mbit/s.
Typical distance improvements with a loop extender are shown in the diagram below, with rate in megabits per second and distance in thousands of feet.
Williamston This system was operated by Carl Ellison, who owned a general store located at Williamston, South Carolina in east central Anderson county.
Some members created a new service, based on an open-source version of CoSy, called NLZ (Noise Level Zero) where they continued what remained of the service, with many of the same conferences and topics that were active at the end of Delphi's ownership until 2018.
See also Carrier system Communications satellite Signal transmission Submarine communications cable – a cable on the sea bed == References ==
The test consists of transmitting an analog sinusoidal signal at the frequency of 1004 Hz with the power level of 0 (zero) dBm.
During this raid, it was claimed that bribes totaling Rs21 million were taken to release detainees, with detailed records of how the money was distributed among the officers.
The Protea telephone plug, sometimes called simply the South African telephone plug, was widely used in South Africa from the 1970s until the 1990s.
The 5th generation Home Hub was released in mid-October 2013 and is an upgrade to the Home Hub 4, with Gigabit Ethernet connections, 802.11ac Wi-Fi (Wave 1) and an integrated VDSL modem.
History The idea was born in 2016 and first discussed in an unofficial meeting during IETF 96 in Berlin with attendees from Wire, Mozilla and Cisco.
They planned to develop a system that recovered static body and stride parameters of subjects as they walked, while also looking into the ability of time-normalized joint angle trajectories in the walking plane as a way of recognizing gait.
Much like long distance calling before the late 1990s, busy line interrupt is a service provided, for instance, to allow people to contact a family member in the event of an emergency if the receiving party's line is busy.
For example, a fiber optic cable might run up to 30 kilometres (19 mi) without a repeater from the telephone exchange to a concentrator site, and local subscriber wire local loops can extend an additional 4 km beyond the concentrator and its DSLAM.
Large pair gain units are stored in serving area interfaces or metal cabinets typically resembling small apartment-sized refrigerators alongside or near roadways that overlie communications rights-of-way.
(See ARGO Search) Reach Rather than build products and apps itself Clarify integrates its software into existing platforms, and can already be seen in action on educational video platforms like Mobento.
See also List of telephone country codes Managed facilities-based voice network Phreaking Plain old telephone service (POTS) Via Net Loss == References ==
Centrex service was first installed in the early 1960s in New York's financial district by New York Telephone.
Uni-DSL (UDSL) in telecommunications is a digital subscriber line (DSL) marketing buzzword developed by Texas Instruments which would provide bit rates of at least 200 Mbit/s in aggregate on the downstream and upstream paths.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation called it a "tremendous victory...the Fourth Amendment applies to your communications online just as strongly as it does to your letters and packages".
On 1A2 key systems or similar key-operated telephone instruments, the hold position, i.e., the hold condition, of a line is often indicated by winking the associated lamp at 120 impulses per minute.
All cable copper pairs supplying services through user telephone lines are terminated at the MDF and distributed through the MDF to equipment within the local exchange e.g.
COSMOS and other computerized Operations Support Systems help by assigning terminals close to one another, so most jumpers need not be long and shelves on either type of MDF do not become congested.
G.lite is a modulation profile which can be selected on a DSLAM port by an ADSL provider and provides greater resistance to noise and tolerates longer loop lengths (DSLAM to customer distances) for a given bandwidth.
Allocation These allocation rules are described in Title 47, Part 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
The diaphragm was mounted on the top of a closed wooden sound box, with a speaking horn on the front.
Usage IPRS phone numbers are used by the German malware manufacturer FinFisher for their Android Trojans.
SP-1 (Stored Program 1) was the name of a computerized telephone exchange (a so-called switching office) manufactured by Northern Electric (later Northern Telecom and now Nortel Networks beginning in 1972) in Canada.
See also Comparison of cross-platform instant messaging clients Internet privacy Secure communication == References ==
For example, instead of reporting a phone line ringing with the RING message, many modems will instead send the DLE ASCII character, followed by the letter R.
The lobby entrance has brass, glass, wood, and marble floors, and a large walk-in safe in the basement remains as a testament to the history of the building.
Many European systems follow the recommendations of the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI).
There were four offices equipped with 23,000 lines; Bezuidenhout, Centrum (or Hofstraat), Hague West (or Marnix), and Scheveningen.
The most significant distinction between ordinary telephones and sound-powered telephones is in the operation of the microphone.
Lawful interception Lawful interception concerns the delivery of calls and data to government approved reception centres.
That's because the board manufacturer is almost always different from the chipset maker, and the chipset comes pre-configured to support all possible hardware, even if not implemented on the circuit board.
KOM is a type of bulletin board system, with a text-based (as opposed to a menu based) input system.
The TRAI SIM Closure Fraud is a scam in India where fraudsters impersonate the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to deceive mobile users into closing their SIM cards.
Data that could be useful for intelligence purposes is then selected and forwarded by using the "GENESIS selection language".
There were several versions that could handle from 24 to 192 voice/conferencing channels on digital ISDN interfaces and from two to 32 analog ports (phone lines).
A "wet" type will maintain its characteristics while passing the DC current needed to seize the telephone line (signal off-hook to the central office).
Bit-stream access allows the new entrant to use the high-speed modems and other equipment provided by the incumbent and thus avoid maintenance and investments into the local loop.
Additionally, many telecommunications providers now offer hosted PBX systems where the provider actually hosts the PBX and the phone handsets are connected to it through an internet connection.
However the SP1 replaced the previous generation's complex relay-based controllers (markers) with a modern Harvard architecture electronic computer, with separate data and program memories.
Sidetone is audible feedback to someone speaking or otherwise producing sound as an indication of active transmission.
British tanks deployed in the Normandy campaign in 1944 were also equipped with them, though they were often knocked out of action as they were exposed to artillery and mortar fire.
The fact that most modern websites, including Google, Yahoo!, and Amazon, use HTTPS causes problems for many users trying to access public Wi-Fi hot spots, because a captive portal Wi-Fi hot spot login page fails to load if the user tries to open an HTTPS resource.
As of 2003, it was estimated that there were 20 million Centrex lines installed worldwide by 20 telephone companies, with the most installations in the United States (15 million), Canada (2 million), and the United Kingdom (1 million).
Electronic control units (ECUs) in automotive engines have proprietary connectors that are densely packed, environmentally sealed, and difficult to gain access to without causing damage.
In digital central office installations, the Milliwatt test facility was implemented using a synthesized version of the 1004 Hz signal, often known as the digital milliwatt.
Hub Phone The BT Hub Phone is an optional handset that can be bought to work in conjunction with the BT Home Hub 1, 1.5, and 2.0.
PTI first went into partnership with AT&T in 1984 and then sold its remaining stake in the company to AT&T (later demerged into Lucent and subsequently merged to form Alcatel-Lucent) in 1987.
ILECs are obligated to serve the entire exchange area as a "provider of last resort", while CLECs can choose which locations to serve, be it by facilities of their own or by resale of services of an ILEC or another CLEC.
It will also often have DIP switches to let the user connect or disconnect different signals in the cable.
At the time of its shutdown, EIES-2 held 6 GB of stored data, and could serve 1,000 concurrent users with an average response time of under 15 seconds.
References See also Call detail record Internet Protocol Detail Record Pen Register Data Retention Directive Interception Modernization Programme Mastering the Internet NSA Call Database CSE and Communications data Titan traffic database
Phoner and PhonerLite are softphone applications for Windows operating systems available as freeware.
Centrex continues to be used by large institutions, government agencies, and universities as most of the equipment has already been paid for, though leasing Centrex lines may be more expensive.
As a result, the North American telephone administrations first introduced letter combinations that could not be linked to a familiar pronounceable central office name in some highly populated states, such as New York.
The G.lite standardization effort took a total of 11 months from start to finish, setting a new record for ANY standard effort within the ITU-T.
LInX provides participating law enforcement partner agencies with secure access to regional crime and incident data and the tools needed to process it, enabling investigators to search across jurisdictional boundaries to help solve crimes and resolve suspicious events.
This decision may not have had a major effect, because the bulk telephone data collection program involved in the case ended in 2015, and the program that replaced it was also shut down.
Simplex is also used to describe a powering method where one or more signal conductors carries direct current to power a remote device, which sends its output signal back on the same conductor.
Information gained in areas such as technical problems, user preferences, and satisfaction can be valuable for the planning and development work of other information technology units.
Traditional telephone switches connected physical circuits (e.g., wire pairs) while modern telephone switches use a combination of space- and time-division switching.
This is perceived as a minimisation of confusion between green and grey and their potential abbreviations: G, Gr, or Gre.
Turoff's account Archived 2014-05-20 at the Wayback Machine Electronic Global University System and Services Archived 2011-08-07 at the Wayback Machine
In telecommunications, a combined distribution frame (CDF) is a distribution frame that combines the functions of main and intermediate distribution frames and contains both vertical and horizontal terminating blocks.
See also List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 388 References External links Text of Berger v.
With the exception of the possible CCA cryptographic attack described in the limitations section below, an attacker should at most be able to discover that a connection is taking place between two parties, along with their domain names and IP addresses.
A fax modem is similar to a data modem but is designed to transmit and receive documents to and from a fax machine or another fax modem.
Viable, fully digital switches emerged in the 1970s, with early systems, such as the French Alcatel E10 and Canadian Nortel DMS series going into production during that decade.
When the PBX is capable of direct inward dialing, the extension number should be written directly after the phone number, without using any distinct symbols.
Example Example Windows 10 supplies: hidphone.tsp remotesp.tsp unimdm.tsp (universal modem) kmddsp.tsp (kernel mode device driver) External links Microsoft Telephony Service B2B & B2C Call Center Services
Some ADSL loop extenders aren't repeaters, but instead convert to a different signal (like G.shdsl) that fares better over extreme distances.
An integrated subscriber loop carrier (ISLC) has its T-spans terminating directly in time division switching equipment in the telephone exchange.
See also Software Development Kit Asterisk Comparison of VoIP software List of SIP software IP PBX External links Asterisk home page VaxTele SIP SDK Cisco SPA3102 SIP Gateway SIP Service Provider SIP Trunking
Soft dial tones A soft dial tone or express dial tone may be used when no actual service is active on a line, and normal calls cannot be made.
Swire pointed out that business records obtained under FISA are different from those obtained under similar criminal legislation, in that gag orders may not be applied to criminal investigations.
VoIP: The STE now has Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) capability, available as an upgrade to the current models, or built into some new models.
Sri Lanka Except for short codes and emergency numbers, all telephone numbers in Sri Lanka have ten digits (initial 0 + nine numbers).
A similar service was provided in North America using toll stations or "ring downs", individual subscribers who were connected over many miles of landline directly to AT&T long distance with no local calling area.
The inquiry concluded in October 2020 with no findings of substantive wrongdoing.President Trump has claimed that the unmasking request was an act of espionage since the beginning of his presidency and has been emphatically hyping the probe as a potential October Surprise for the 2020 election.
However, the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s led to the introduction of low-cost modems and the idea of a semi-dedicated point-to-point link was no longer appropriate.
At the end of the 109th Congress, the bill expired (all pending legislation not voted into law at the end of the House term, a.k.a.
Digital Spread Spectrum (DSS) typically uses frequency hopping to spread the audio signal (with a 3 kHz bandwidth) over a much wider range of frequencies in a pseudorandom way.
These teams are now working together to develop and deploy refraction networking with support from the U.S.
The stated purpose of the experiment is to see how many people will call someone they have never met.
In systems without direct inward dial capability, all calls for a large organisation originally were placed to the facility's main number, where a switchboard operator or attendant would ask which extension or department the caller intended to reach.
The Fountain Green operator rings the number, 14R2, a party line where a specific ringing pattern summons the second subscriber on the shared line.
This advantage only increases over time, as tighter cables provide higher bandwidth – the 2012 generation of cables drop the transatlantic latency to under 60 milliseconds, according to Hibernia Atlantic, deploying such a cable that year.
Duplex authentification of password and trust-list backup will significantly decrease telecommunication expenditures while maintaining an adaptable system of call transfer.
It would therefore not have been possible to reverse engineer the location of an owner of an ETNS number based on the characteristics of the phone number.
They could also be used as a demultiplexer, so that two input lines could control a number of output devices.
As a result, she was selected to become the company's signature sound for the AT&T trademark in 1989.
Typing "unix" at the Pico prompt put the user in a shell and users could rapidly switch back and forth and move text from one to the other.
The agency also considers the Bluetooth device as insecure, allowing connections to Cayla's speaker and microphone within a 10 m (33 ft) radius.
The APCOR became very popular during the late 1970s and 1980s; it was widely adopted by fire departments and emergency medical services agencies across the United States and had a significant impact on pre-hospital medical care.
Landi John Grima as Albin Arthur Lovegrove as Saunders Production It was produced at Merton Park Studios in London.
Six Rotary exchanges were installed in the city of Hull, between 1922 and 1929, where telephones service was supplied by Hull Corporation rather than by the GPO.
C Call originator - (or calling party, caller or A-party) a person or device that initiates a telephone call by dialling a telephone number.
Usually a button with green upright (off-hook) handset icon is used for starting a call, and a red lying-down (on-hook) handset is used for ending a call.
Petitioners During Richland's argument, the justices inquired closely about the city's contention that Quon had no reasonable expectation of privacy over his text messages.
investigated four unidentified Trump campaign aides in those early months...[including]...Michael T.
(The exhibition has been closed until the first part of 2019 due to some reconstruction works.) At the Norwegian Telecom Museum in Oslo, Norway there is a 7A2 exchange.
For example, for the field that indicates supported standard of WLAN protocols, the value 'g' should indicate support of 802.11b and 802.11g, and 'g-only' support only of 802.11g.
The PRX digital version (PRX/D) was developed during the early 1980s in PTI's laboratories in Hilversum, Brussels and Malmesbury, Wiltshire but only went into limited production.
At that time, Google announced it intended to add MLS to the end to end encryption used by Google Messages over Rich Communication Services (RCS).
In this case the Completing Marker would mark a proper path of idle links for the call to make through the mechanical voice switching matrix.
Indovina, was introduced in late 1987 and contained four TMS320C25 16-bit fixed point DSP chips operating at 40 MHz.
Any laptop that you're tracking: you can follow it as it moves from place to place throughout the world.
The group is known for hosting and running the Let's Encrypt service, which aims to make Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificates available for free in an automated fashion.
It requires very high current and is a current-sensitive device rather than a voltage-sensitive device.
Carl-Otto Fast, founder of the Westrogothian School ("Västgötaskolan"), was a known Nazi who some claim collaborated with SS Ahnenerbe, Richard Walther Darré and eugenicists from Hadamar in Germany.
As a member of the band, We the Kings, Trippy has received Platinum record by Australian Recording Industry Association.
Mythology Mneseus, along with his nine siblings, became the heads of ten royal houses, each ruling a tenth portion of the island, according to a partition made by Poseidon himself, but all subject to the supreme dynasty of Atlas who was the eldest of the ten.
Mounds are typically constructed in layers, however the arch in this grave indicated that at some point the mound was disrupted.
In Greek mythology, Elasippus (Ancient Greek: Ἐλάσιππον means 'horse-riding, knightly') may refer to two personages: Elasippus, one of the ten sons of Poseidon and Cleito in Plato's myth of Atlantis.
He formerly was a commissioner of the British-Israel-World Federation in Victoria., and a YMCA representative for A.I.F., Australia.
Perhaps the best known alleged example is the Glastonbury Temple of the Stars, situated around Glastonbury in Somerset, England.
Petermanns Mitteilungen 43/44, 1897/98 Weltgeschichte des Krieges (Hannover 1903) Das Zeitalter des Sonnengottes.
The elaborate interpretive commentary on the law was written by three dominant figures in the racial hygiene movement: Ernst Rüdin, Arthur Gütt and the lawyer Falk Ruttke.
Fort expands in this book on his theory about the Super-Sargasso Sea – a place where earthly things supposedly materialize in order to rain down on Earth – as well as developing an idea that there are continents above the skies of Earth.
Its stated purpose is to defend "the cultural, ethnic, and racial interests of Western European peoples" and examine "contemporary political, social, and demographic trends that impact the posterity of Western Civilization".
Other projects The Occidental Quarterly also runs a news-related website, The Occidental Observer, launched in 2007 as an online companion to the Quarterly, as well as a book publishing company, The Occidental Press.
Stanford and Bradley's 2012 book Across Atlantic Ice: The Origin of America's Clovis Culture expands upon and revises earlier formulations of the Solutrean Hypothesis.
594 BC) was an Egyptian priest, who is mentioned in Greek writings for relating the account of Atlantis.
However, as with Illyrian, most Dacian and Thracian words and names have not been closely linked with Albanian (v.
He also mentions a Latin inscription in Dacia Traiana which contains the Latin word for moon (luna) with the meaning for month, because Daco-Romanian displays a similar semantic development.
In 1883 Sumner published a highly-influential pamphlet entitled "What Social Classes Owe to Each Other", in which he insisted that the social classes owe each other nothing, synthesizing Darwin's findings with free-enterprise capitalism for his justification.
In Greek mythology, Cleito (Ancient Greek: Κλειτὼ means "renowned, famous") may refer to the following: Cleito, an Atlantian, daughter of the autochthon Evenor and Leucippe.
Many such views stress competition between individuals in laissez-faire capitalism, while others, emphasizing struggle between national or racial groups, support eugenics, racism, imperialism and/or fascism.
(2015) states that "the Armenian plateau hypothesis gains in plausibility" since the Yamnaya partly descended from a Near Eastern population, which resembles present-day Armenians.
This hypothesis was popular at the time, but now many regard it as nothing but the product of racist and discriminatory views Montandon held.
The thesis itself rested on a spurious intellectual foundation by claiming that the Turks had a Hittite ancestry which was of Central Asian Aryan origin.
Published works Books and other titles written by Mitchell-Hedges include: Battles With Giant Fish Danger, My Ally Land of Wonder and Fear Concerning Land of Wonder and Fear, prominent British archaeologist J.
Mythical Atlantic islands litter the early 14th-century portolan charts of Pietro Vesconte and Angelino Dulcert.
In The Independent's "Building a library" series Tom Holland recommended the work for those who "have had enough of scepticism" about the Trojan War legend and have "wondered why Ilium sounds a bit like Ilford".
A few scientific researchers such as psychologist Richard Lynn, psychologist Raymond Cattell, and scientist Gregory Stock have openly called for eugenic policies using modern technology, but they represent a minority opinion in current scientific and cultural circles.
Notes References Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S.
Gardner's collection of witchcraft items from Wiccan Monique Wilson, and displayed them in the museums.
Sprague gained the official Guinness World Record for 'heaviest weight lifted and spun with pierced ears' on the set of Lo Show dei Record in Milan, Italy on 19 Jun 2014.
Wilson argues that the essential weakness of James George Frazer's The Golden Bough is that Frazer attributed the fundamental mythological systems to the beginnings of the farming cultures, specifically to fertility.
Due to archaeology being the pursuit of learning about the past through the material remains of deceased peoples, the field has an inherent "mysterious and supernatural profile".
See also Mongolian idiocy Recapitulation theory Notes References External links The full text of The Mongol in Our Midst (1923 edition) at the Internet Archive
The museum asserts that most dinosaurs became extinct during the Great Flood, and that while a pair of young dinosaurs accompanied elephants and lions on Noah's Ark, these became extinct later.
References Sources https://web.archive.org/web/20121105104612/http://tatjana.ingold.ch/index.php?id=goetterspuren http://literaturtest.net/text/buch/rezensio/b/buergin.html Commercial Register: Dr.
Moreover, there is doubt if the emerging Kievan Rus' were the same clan as the "Rus" who visited the Carolingians in 839 or who attacked Constantinople in 860 AD.
Eumelus (Ancient Greek: Εὔμηλος Eúmēlos means "rich in sheep") was the name of: Mythology Eumelus (Gadeirus), the younger twin brother of Atlas in Plato's myth of Atlantis, and the son of Poseidon and Cleito, daughter of the autochthon Evenor and Leucippe.
Kennewick Man Gill has studied Kennewick Man, the skeletal remains of a prehistoric man found near Kennewick in the U.S.
Akakor is the name of a fictional mythic ancient underground city, located somewhere between Brazil, Bolivia, and Peru.
Discovery of Buddha's Birthplace Waddell had travelled around British controlled India in search for Kapilavastu, the Buddha's supposed birthplace.
Interestingly, the tradition of an ancient settlement associated with the lake is borne out by the archeological record for the area: traces of human habitation dating back as far as 40,000 BC have been found near Kouzan-am.
Art Tracy's artworks relate to techniques of combining traditional paintbrushing and finger-painting with modern airbrushing.
Some of the animals featured in the book, in particular the popular "night stalker" (a giant and flightless predatory descendant of bats), have inspired numerous similar designs through speculative evolution projects since.
Immigrationist scholars underline that the population of the Roman provinces to the south of the Danube was "thoroughly Latinized".
Brown pride is a response to the racist or colorist narrative that white skin is more beautiful than brown skin.
Schrader responded in 1890: "[The words for salmon similar to Lachs] are confined to a more limited linguistic area.
By the third edition of his book, published in 1902, he was more specific, with his primary theory being "a Semitic race and of Arabian origin" of "strongly commercial" traders living within a client African city.
Shortly afterward he started a collaboration with the German publisher Econ Verlag (and later Bastei Verlag) on a comic book series, offering Polish writers and illustrators for the joint venture.
Publisher and editors The journal is published by the Charles Martel Society (not to be confused with France's anti-Algerian Charles Martel Group), named in honor of Charles Martel, who halted a Muslim invasion of Europe at the Battle of Tours in 732.
During the 1930s and 1940s, the Nazi regime used forced sterilization on hundreds of thousands of people whom they viewed as mentally ill, an estimated 400,000 between 1934 and 1937.
Smith stated that Tutankhamen "narrowly escaped" the fate of being "hacked to pieces" by robbers, as was the case with the mummy of Amenhotep II.
Synopsis The film begins by introducing the cargo cults established by South Pacific Natives after coming in contact with American planes in World War II.
Genetic testing and historical analysis have not approved this theory, though it maintains negligible support within the Ahmadiyya movement.
They met Drbal, and dedicated a chapter of their popular 1970 book Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain to pyramid power.
Court records indicate Frank was a key figure in helping Colonia establish its weapons factories by contracting with German arms producers to assist the colony in setting up their operations.
Taylor regarded the "pyramid inch" to be 1/25 of the "sacred cubit", ancient unit based on the forearm length from the tip of the middle finger to the bottom of the elbow, whose existence had earlier been postulated by Isaac Newton.
Further searches have been conducted since the 1980s, coinciding with the publication of Kenneth McIntyre's book and the Mahogany Ship symposia, conducted in nearby Warrnambool.
The statement affirms that genetics "demonstrates that humans cannot be divided into biologically distinct subcategories" and that it "exposes the concept of racial purity as scientifically meaningless".
Overview In the first part of the book, Fort criticises astronomy, listing predictions astronomers made that never came true.
Major proponents of the hypothesis include alternative Egyptologist John Anthony West, and geologist Robert Schoch.
A Thousand Years of Yesterdays A fictional story, explaining reincarnation as a man re-experiences past selves.
Belgian lawyer Théophile Cailleux wrote that Odysseus sailed the Atlantic Ocean, starting from Troy, which he situated near the Wash in England (1879).
The peoples of the Iberian Peninsula, who were closest to the real Atlantic islands of the Canaries, Madeira and Azores, and whose seafarers and fishermen may have seen and even visited them, articulated their own tales.
Lewis later revealed that Pidgeon had fabricated most of his research, and distorted much of the rest of it, mapping mounds where none existed, and changing the arrangement of existing mound groups to suit his needs.
His description of the Hall of Records resembled the subterranean chambers described by Randall-Stevens and by Lewis and may have been derived from their works.
Discovery and exploration According to local reports, heavy rains combined with three earthquakes exposed the formation from the surrounding mud on May 19, 1948.
After six to eight months (corresponding possibly to the embryonic period) the Fanany (so the Betsileo believe) then appears in daylight in the form of a lizard.
The Saqqara Bird is a model bird made of sycamore wood and mounted on a stick, discovered during the 1898 excavation of the tomb of Pa-di-Imen in Saqqara, Egypt.
Prior to her death, the skull was only shown to the public periodically, making it hard for the skull to be accessed and tested for authenticity.
Considering the Blaauboschkraal stone ruins are located on a hillside of a valley, it is assumed this settlement was built in the 3rd stage of Bokoni civilisation.
The Inventory Stela, also known as the Stela of Khufu's Daughter, is an ancient Egyptian commemorative tablet dating back to the 26th Dynasty (circa 670 BC).
The commentator Adiyarkunallar mentions that the lost land extended from Pahruli river in the north to the Kumari river in the South.
Breuil's books contain valuable photographs and sketches of the art works at the sites he visited but are marred by official South African racism.
Wilson proposes that the outlook of ancient man was based on "seeing the big picture" rather than logically breaking down the universe into its constituent parts.
Discovery The stela was discovered in 1858 at Giza by the French archaeologist Auguste Mariette, during excavations of the Isis temple, next to queen's pyramid G1-c.
In his 1977 book Psychic Archaeology: Time Machine to the Past, his claims include that of finding "important 'archaeological remains' very deeply buried and dating to much earlier periods than accepted by conservative Establishment archaeologists".
In June 2025, seven members of AllatRa were arrested in Krasnoyarsk Krai by the FSB for allegedly organizing its activities.
Thus, he concluded that the inscriptions were most likely created after 1932.He was able to do a transliteration but not a translation as Wahlgren wrote, "as portions of the text appear to be scrambled or distorted in some way in order to impede too ready a full interpretation ...".
Definition The orientation of the Temple of Zeus is generally acknowledged by religious scholars as a form of Western esotericism, which embraces theistic Satanism with an esoteric perception contrasting the materialist and carnal inceptions idealized by LaVeyan Satanism.
While Eitzman had already suggested the pebble was brought to the cave because of the resemblance to a face, Dart recognized other faces when the stone is viewed from different angles.
Aztlán became a symbol for activists who allege that they have a legal and primordial right to the land.
"La Tlazolteotl de Dumbarton Oaks: un regard sous la surface" [The Dumbarton Oaks Tlazolteotl: looking beneath the surface] (English abstract).
American philologist George Sherman Lane concurred in a 1970 conference paper: "In my opinion, the name in question probably did refer originally not to the Salmo salar at all, but rather to the Salmo trutta caspius of the northwest Caucasus region." That lent support to the Kurgan hypothesis.
This wall was entirely removed apart from a small portion, which was incorporated into the Sphinx Temple.
There is uncertainty as to how large the Scandinavian migration to Rus' was, but some archaeological work in the years around 2000 argued for a substantial number of free farmers settling in the upper Volga region.
He claims that parts of these sites were built more than 10,000 years ago, in some cases much earlier than accepted by orthodox history, and with techniques and technology that were not yet supposed to be in existence.
Recent events In 1992 the State Government of Victoria offered a reward of A$250,000 to anyone who could locate the wreck but the offer was withdrawn in 1993 without money having been paid.
Similarly, in the 19th century, the Fennoman movement in the Grand Duchy of Finland aimed to raise the Finnish language from peasant status to an official national language, which had been solely Swedish for some time.
In other parts of Europe, interest in Norse mythology, history and language was represented by the Englishmen Thomas Gray, John Keats and William Wordsworth, and the Germans Johann Gottfried Herder and Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock.
It is thought to be more than coincidental that the stone was found among Scandinavian newcomers in Minnesota, still struggling for acceptance and quite proud of their Nordic heritage.
Criticism The idea was examined by two independent studies, one by Ian Burrow in 1975 and the other in 1983 by Tom Williamson and Liz Bellamy, using the standard methods of landscape historical research.
is an entertainment and edutainment holding company owned by the Jim Pattison Group of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
The five ancestors of Mieszko I as well as Chościsko, the father of Piast the Wheelwright have all been suggested as legendary progenitors of the Piast dynasty in Poland.
The history of eugenics is the study of development and advocacy of ideas related to eugenics around the world.
In Iberia, these later admixture (interbreeding) events were with central European (Celtic), eastern Mediterranean and northern African populations, and genomic ancestry from them are found in all or most present-day Iberian populations, except for the Basque.
Archeological evidence shows that some of the imported ceramics included Longquan green-glazed stoneware and blue-and-white porcelain that dates back to the 14th and 15th centuries.
The book details reports and interviews that document the effect of the electroculture process which had not been previously explained scientifically.
See also Meister Print London Hammer Out-of-place artifact References Coulam, Nancy J.; Schroedl, Alan R.
Over 3,000 photographs, taken from Alfred's original glass negative plates are held by Hereford Library.
After moving briefly to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and then Chula Vista, California, the Fellowship relocated near Ramona, California, to get away from the pressures and distractions of the city, but also have the advantages of being near a major city, San Diego.
They had five pairs of twins, namely: Atlas and Eumelus, Ampheres and Evaemon, Mneseus and Autochthon, Elasippus and Mestor, and lastly, Azaes and Diaprepes.
The two Spartan royal lines – the Agiad and Eurypontid dynasties – claimed legitimacy into the classical period through their descent from Herakles.
Ridpath concludes that any information that resembles the facts about Sirius was probably ascertained by way of cultural contact with Europeans.
His 1935 book A Voice Out of Egypt incorporated detailed diagrams of purported passageways beneath the plateau.
Cayce's readings often drew upon preexisting esoteric literature, sometimes citing such literature by name.
The Nazi theorist Alfred Rosenberg believed that the "Nordic race" was descended from Proto-Indo-Europeans, who he thought had pre-historically dwelt on the North German Plain and it was not impossible that the Nordic race ultimately originated on the lost island of Atlantis.
Weingärtner created the work to represent the evolution of information transfer from the ancient world to the present.
Blondeau built the roller suit as part of his graduation project at the industrial design school École nationale supérieure des arts appliqués et des métiers d'art (also known as the Olivier de Serres) in Paris.
Egypt theory His best known contribution, which has been described as pseudoarchaeology, is the claim that Aboriginal Australians came from Egypt, based on carvings at Devil's Rock, Wollombi, in the Royal National Park, Brunswick Heads, and other locations.
Fossiliferous limestone, interpreted as cross cutting the syncline, preclude the formation from being Noah's Ark because these supposed "Flood" deposits are younger than the "Ark." Anchor stones at Kazan (Arzap) are derived from local andesite and not from Mesopotamia.
Controversy The original rendition of the story, as it appeared in Das vegetarische Universum, was credited to Reinhardt Wegemann, although no German writer with this name can be found.
Hidden camera footage revealed Matthew Frost in 2023 claiming that "they've managed to get access to the UK Biobank," and to know more "talk to Emil".
His views do not fit within Malta's prehistoric chronology, as the earliest known human habitation of the island began in around 5900 BC.
Chahin:Urartian history is part of Armenian history, in the same sense that the history of the ancient Britons is part of English history, and that of the Gauls is part of French history.
Cultural aspects like music, food, literature, inventions, dances, and other concepts prominently stem from the combined experience of enslaved African American people and free African Americans who were still subject to racist laws in the United States.
Ripley's tripartite system was especially championed by Madison Grant, who changed Ripley's "Teutonic" type into Grant's own Nordic type (taking the name, but little else, from Deniker), which he postulated as a master race.
In that year, about 88 additional acres were added, 73 of which were purchased by River Parks with sales tax funding, and 15 coming from private donation.
A recent study using archaeological, ethnographic, and historical evidence, along with statistical modeling suggests that the sites population did not exceed 10,000 people.
Personal life In March 2012, Trippy was diagnosed with a benign oligodendroglioma brain tumor after having a seizure at the end of February.
Russell did not claim infallibility, but declared that God's plan of salvation could not be understood independently from his writings.
One group demonstrates an average weight of approximately 400g, and the other with an average weight of 220g.
Other possibilities are that it may have been a toy for an elite child, or it could have functioned as a weather vane.
The park itself says the sandstone involved is very soft and vulnerable to erosion which would cause any markings to quickly fade, so at most the carvings were done in the 1920s by oil field workers who were scouring the area for oil.
Plans call for a new Visitors Center east of Turkey Mountain's lower parking lot off Elwood, and additional parking.
The process was triggered by the establishment of the landlord system and the frequent wars which led to the escape and 'wandering' of slaves and free people coerced into subordination (see unintended consequences).
In 1958, with his wife Yvette and Denise Carvenne, member of The Treasure Seekers' Club (that he founded in 1951), he scanned the village and its church for treasure using a metal detector.
Religious Leaders of America: A Biographical Guide to Founders and Leaders of Religious Bodies, Churches, and Spiritual Groups in North America (2nd ed.).
According to Kakogeorgiou, his organisation was founded in 1962 and the E stands for "Ellínon" ("Greeks").
In present-day Biscay, Gipuzkoa, and Álava were located the Caristii, Varduli, and Autrigones, whose origin is still not clear.
McMullen was an intuitive archaeologist and forensic remote viewer who claimed that he had the ability to use paranormal psychic abilities to use objects to tune into scenes from the past.
While Erkilet discussed military contingencies, Nuri Pasha told the Germans about his plan to establish independent states which would be allies (not satellites) of Turkey.
References Ripley's World of the Unexplained SECRET FUN BLOG: WORLD OF THE UNEXPLAINED MUSEUM BROCHURE
Along with the law, Adolf Hitler personally decriminalised abortion in case of fetuses having racial or hereditary defects for doctors, while the abortion of healthy "pure" German, "Aryan" unborn remained strictly forbidden.
The Mankind Quarterly was published by the Ulster Institute for Social Research, which was presided over by Richard Lynn until his death in 2023.
"Глава xvii: Надконфессиональная синкретическая религиозная философия" [Chapter xvii: Non-denominational syncretic religious philosophy].
According to Michael Ruse, Darwin read Malthus' famous Essay on a Principle of Population in 1838, four years after Malthus' death.
The Arab historian al-Masudi wrote that "Qandhar" (Gandhara in modern-day north west Pakistan) is a country of Rajputs and was a separate kingdom with a non-Muslim ruler.
He was the elder brother of Mestor and his other siblings were Atlas and Eumelus, Ampheres and Evaemon, Mneseus and Autochthon, and lastly, Azaes and Diaprepes.
It is suggested that the ancient city of Serbinum in Pannonia was named after these hypothetical autochthonic Serbs.
Little specific is known about his schooling, but it is assumed that he received a basic primary and secondary education.
It particularly disputes the statements of the PBS documentary Race: The Power of an Illusion aired in 2003.
San Jose Mogote is a site that dates to the early Zapotecs, a civilization that situated well outside the Olmec heartland.
In 1830 George Combe came to Ireland, his self-promotion barely winning out against his lack of medical expertise, still only drawing lukewarm crowds.
The methods and equipment that had been used in the murder of thousands of mentally ill persons were then transferred to concentration camps, because the materials and resources needed to efficiently murder large numbers of people existed and had been proven successful.
Babylonokia (also Babylon-Nokia, Alien-Mobile, and Cuneiform Mobile Phone) is a 2012 artwork by Karl Weingärtner in the form of a clay tablet shaped like a mobile phone, its keys and screen showing cuneiform script.
An entry in Medieval Scandinavia: an Encyclopedia says map and text 'include a cluster of grapes, a figure rowing a canoe, an animal pelt, a slingshot or ballista, a rattle, a human face and.
According to that view, White Serbia and White Croatia were designated as western Serbia and western Croatia, and were situated in the west from some hypothetical lands that had same names and that presumably existed in the east.
Likely the foundational population were of eastern Iranian origin and later mixed with various other groups which they came into contact with in the region over time.
In October 2007, a memorial was installed at Madurai by the Government of Tamil Nadu in honour of Devaneya Pavanar.
The study of alien cultures might offer us glimpses into our own species' past or future development.
Notes External links Works by William Scott-Elliot at Project Gutenberg Works by or about William Scott-Elliot at the Internet Archive Works by William Scott-Elliot at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) The Lost Lemuria, at Sacred Texts The Story of Atlantis, at Sacred Texts
Idaho Northwest Science Museum, founded 2014 in Boise, Idaho Kentucky Creation Museum, located in Petersburg, Kentucky, opened in 2007 and constructed at a cost of $27 million, includes exhibits of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden accompanied by dinosaurs.
Jane MacLaren Walsh is an anthropologist and researcher at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C.
These elements of Fadiman's narrative bear similarity to Osório's account of The Battle of Brava (1507).
De Loys's group suffered diseases and violent encounters with native populations; only four of the 20 members survived.
While virtually indescribable, the sonic churnings and juxtaposed images reveal a brilliant display of textures and tonalities set against an ocean of occasional rhythms.
The cave is used by the native Shuar people who descend into the cave each spring using vine ladders and bamboo torches to collect fledgling oilbirds ("guácharos" or "tayos" in Spanish).
History In 1899 Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, founder of the Ahmadiyya movement, theorized that Jesus had survived the crucifixion and traveled to Kashmir to find and preach to the lost tribes of Israel.
An investigation by Pierre Stromberg and Paul Heinrich, using x-rays taken of the object, with the help of members of the Spark Plug Collectors of America, identified the artifact as a 1920s-era Champion spark plug, widely used in the Ford Model T and Model A engines.
He conceived it, at least partially and tactically, as an offering calculated to solidify the Italo-German alliance.
Agreeing with the philosopher Giorgio de Santillana's thesis developed in Hamlet's Mill (1969), Wilson places the genesis of mythology previous to fertility cultures, linking the fundamental myths to astronomical occurrences such as the Precession of the Equinoxes.
A creationist museum is a facility that hosts exhibits which use the established natural history museum format to present a young Earth creationist view that the Earth and life on Earth were created some 6,000 to 10,000 years ago in six days.
Senator, Confederate officer, and slaveowner Zebulon Baird Vance, written sometime between 1868 and 1870.
presenting the Blaauboschkraal stone ruins, interpreted by mainstream archaeology as 16th century boundary markers, as 'Adam's Calendar', an alien-built structure at the center of a network of stone circles across Southern Africa which purportedly channeled energy in ancient times.
Feder argues a reader seeing the Nazca Lines for the first time in a book about aliens would be much more likely to associate those features with extraterrestrial origins, rather than from a civilization that existed on Earth.
Naming traditions and later confusion The survival of the myth is sometimes linked to the presence of Egyptian-themed place-names such as Isis Temple and Horus Temple on official maps.
Medical ethics concerns Glenn McGee, director of the Center for Bioethics at Albany Medical College in New York, said: "Cosmetic surgery is a practice based on informed consent that needs to balance the risks with the benefits.
However, in reference to this, Crookshank argued at length that Down's patients, for their perceived similarities to Mongolian people, were, therefore, "real Mongols" as Down had argued against.
Hitler's conception of the Aryan Herrenvolk (master race) explicitly excluded the vast majority of Slavs, regarding the Slavs as having dangerous Jewish and Asiatic influences.
Career Michel Lotito began eating unusual material at 16 years of age, and he performed publicly beginning in 1966, around the age of 16.
I would argue that the evidence is that the bad old days aren't over." On September 24, the third and last day of the conference, Howard University professor Rodney Green began addressing the audience just as they were leaving for a coffee break.
During Atatürk's government, scholars like Hasan Reşit Tankut and Rıfat Osman Bey were encouraged to have the findings of their studies in history and social sciences be in line with the Turkish Historical Thesis and the Sun Language Theory.
The series contains commentary about biblical events and expressions, and progresses from elementary topics such as the existence of God and promoting the Bible as God's word, to deeper subject matter throughout the series.
Breuil's farfetched theory aligned with the racist policies of the South African government at that time, which downplayed any evidence that Black people could produce sophisticated works of art.
Bactrian origin The Cambridge History of Iran: Volume 2 also states the Bactrian tribes to be ancestors of Pashtuns.
Thompson commented that "to me the wonder was how he could write such nonsense and the fear how much taller the next yarn would be".
Semir Osmanagić (born June 1, 1960), also known as Sam Osmanagich, is a Bosnian-American businessman and author.
This includes insights into cosmology and eschatology as well as lost knowledge of advanced technology and ecology that, when known, can be used to improve the human condition and create a future Utopia.
(2015) found 22.2% of E1b1b in a sample of Tutsis from Burundi, but no bearers of the haplogroup among the local Hutu and Twa populations.
He killed his son for having eaten the brains of a sheep that had been sacrificed before it had been put on the altar.
Introduced by Brad Steiger in his 1976 book Gods of Aquarius, it argues that certain people originated as extraterrestrials and arrived on Earth through birth or as a walk-in to an existing human body.
Two sale catalogues of his collection, catalogued by Edouard Frossard, were published in New York in 1887.
In 1886, mining engineer Adolf Gurlt reported on the object to the Natural History Society of Bonn, noting that the object was coated with a thin layer of rust, was made of iron, and had a specific gravity of 7.75.
Extensive searches of the area were again conducted in late 1999 and in 2004, using heavy drills that penetrated to a depth of 10 metres.
Kelly hung a plastic model of a pyramid in the team's clubhouse after a pair of away defeats at the start of the series, and each player took turns standing under it for exactly four minutes.
The adherents of this idea use wide-ranging methods, from controversial ones, such as dowsing and asking mediums to contact the dead, to more conventional methods such as etymology, but also claim that the established academic material consists of lies and forgeries.
Population Church of Saint Mary Magdalene The village church dedicated to Saint Mary Magdalene has been rebuilt several times.
Another employee of HDF is Edward Dutton, a former editor-in-chief of Mankind Quarterly and racist YouTuber who promotes eugenics.
Size and location Turkey Mountain is a hill occupying a wide area on the west side of the Arkansas River in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Other observers have noted that the hammer is stylistically consistent with typical American tools manufactured in the region in the late 19th century.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 31 out of 100, based on seven critics, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.
More crucially, there are so many ancient features that finding some in approximate alignment is highly likely (for example, see and discussion after article).
The law also enforced sterilization on the so-called "Rhineland bastards," the mixed-race children of German civilians and French African soldiers who helped occupy the Rhineland.
Sitchin attributed the creation of the ancient Sumerian culture to the Anunnaki, which he claimed was a race of extraterrestrials from a planet beyond Neptune called Nibiru.
While the theory gathered support in England in the middle of the seventeenth century, it was less popular in New England, reflecting the New Englanders' greater familiarity with Native Americans, whereas the likes of Thorowgood and Ben Israel had never been to the continent.
Her place is taken by her daughter, Aistar, who continues to observe the civilization created by her ancestor while continuing the fight against Dr.
Other ancient astronaut and theosophist writers have alleged that the Book of Dzyan originated on another planet.
Slater, F., 'Geographical nomenclature: Larmer's native names of points at Port Jackson', Mankind, Volume 1, Issue 9, pages 213–218, May 1934, (or June 1934) Australian Anthropological Society.
See also Genetic studies on Serbs Names of the Serbs and Serbia References Sources Novaković, Relja (1992).
But an argument against an Olmec origin is the fact that the Olmec civilization had ended by the 4th century BC, several centuries before the earliest known Long Count date artifact.
Notably, three enslaved women, Anarcha, Lucy, and Betsey, were subjects of his non-consensual experimentation.
This influx of new residents caused a reorganization of urban housing to the unique compound complexes that typify Teotihuacan.
Neuroscience collects data on brain form and function in extant populations, while neuroarchaeolgy uses archaeological and neuroscientific data to examine change in brain form and function in extinct populations.
By imitating the natural river flooding which is rare in modern straightened and dammed rivers, a rich biodiversity can be restored and attract and sustain many rare and protected wetland species.
passage grave The difference between a complex gallery grave and a passage grave (which also has smaller burial chambers opening off the main passage) is two-fold.
At Arcy-Sainte-Restitue in Picardy, a Merovingian grave yielded a coin of Constantine I, the first Christian emperor, used as Charon's obol.
Yusupov, "the ancient Bulgarian language", which, partly, echoes the term "Hunnic-Bulgarian language" by O.
Website created by Kokatha artist Darryl Milika, designer of the Yerrakartarta art installation in Adelaide.
Indigenous Archaeology in Southern New England Case Studies from the Mashantucket Pequot Reservation.
The Pejeng drums, named after the Bronze Age village of Pejeng in Bali, were the Indonesian variation of the Dong Son drum.
His early papers used coprolite analysis to investigate early Mexican diets, published in The Prehistory of the Tehuacan Valley: Environment, and Subsistence.
All the involved people "live in the medieval period", which means that they do not know of modern things like television, cellphones and so on.
Numerous facts of materials from Arabia, Caucasus, Central Asia, where there are epigraphic monuments of an earlier period, allow us to speak in favor of this opinion.» True, the pre-Mongol Volga Bulgaria was already considered a Muslim country.
If neither of these water sources was available rainwater and farmyard run-off was collected in a specially constructed feeder pond.
Kermario alignment This fan-like layout recurs a little further along to the east in the Kermario (House of the Dead) alignment.
Anchor Points The route consists out of Anchor Points, filled in by historical or tourist important Industrial Heritage Sites.
References External links Official Norstead website (archived) Official Ravensborg website (archived) TV interview with principles, KMIZ news story Video of the facility from 2015
Further applications include the measurement of the electrical resistivity of concrete to determinate the corrosion potential in concrete structures.
See also Haufendorf, a type of enclosed village in Germany, Austria and Switzerland Further reading Daniel R.
They have attracted the attention of archaeologists and historians, and have been the subject of study and archaeological excavations throughout Ireland.
The term is used more broadly to encompass woodland, moorland, sports grounds, buildings, roads and urban parks.
Industrial career In 1790, Samuel Slater and his partners were interested in building a textile spinning mill in Pawtucket he sought the assistance of David Wilkinson and his father Oziel to produce the machinery for his new mill.
Among the oldest human artifacts are 9,000-year-old and animal figurines from the Sarab mound in Kermanshah Province.
After Ebenezer's retirement in 1868, the company ventured into and made improvements the developing sector of ring spinning.
Methods The TerraSubmersa Project combines archaeology with marine tools and techniques, such as multibeam sonar, sub bottom profiling, and sediment coring.
Oliphant took the Command of the Home District from 1 January 1903, and selected Parker to continue as his ADC.
Activities Roughly 300 divers have participated in Diving With a Purpose's maritime archaeology program since its foundation.
Additionally, the Israelis officially named this valley אצל (Atzal), which is the same Hebrew spelling of Azal (אצל).
Indigenous astronomy is the name given to the use and study of astronomical subjects and their movements by indigenous groups.
A town dump can be somewhat different than a farm dump or a railroad dump, but in each case there could be industrial-age pottery, stoneware, tobacco pipes, military relics like bayonets and gun barrels, musket balls, uniform buttons and other buttons, marbles and an assortment of other items.
Soro Mik'aya Patjxa is a high-altitude archaeological site located in the Ilave Basin in Peru, about 30 km (19 mi) west of the current shoreline of Lake Titicaca.
The Keith Muckelroy Award The Keith Muckelroy award is awarded biennially for the best published work in the preceding two years covering British maritime, nautical or underwater archaeology.
They can also be chemically analyzed for more in-depth information on the individual who excreted them, using lipid analysis and ancient DNA analysis.
However, Flinders needed to abandon the best bower anchor, a stream anchor, and a quantity of cable, in order to safely depart from the bay.
The walls are often decorated with reliefs or etchings depicting magical and religious symbols such as spirals, zig-zag motifs and bull's horns.
Studying animals in archaeology requires the help from different fields such as zoology, anthropology, paleontology, osteology, and anatomy.
Television In 1991, Harding took part in the series Time Signs, which was produced by Tim Taylor, who went on to create Channel 4's popular archaeology series Time Team.
This can range on a variety of different focuses, but mainly focusing on the human history and other remains through sites related to mythology.
In zooarchaeology, studies will show the animal and human husbandry, as well as the process of cultures adding animals into their diets.
This is due to the belief that people should leave the world in the same position as they entered it, a tradition common throughout the various pre-colonial cultures of the Philippines.
There is one similar item, identified in 1939 by Carl William Blegen in a Museum in Nafplio, Greece.
Patterns from individual samples will match much more closely with chronologies of tree-ring series from the same area than with chronologies from other regions.
Sea trading on the Black Sea was most intense during the period of late antiquity, between the 2nd and 7th centuries CE.
Modern, academically sound archaeological excavations were performed from 1978 through the 1990s by University of Chicago anthropologist Alan Kolata and his Bolivian counterpart, Oswaldo Rivera.
The RN Loss List, from 1512 to 1947, is compiled from the volumes and websites listed below from the earliest known RN wreck.
Misra Yantra: The Misra Yantra (Literally mixed instrument) is a composition of 5 instruments designed as a tool to determine the shortest and longest days of the year.
Antiquarian writers in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries adopted this estate name when describing the prehistoric mound, and the form Newgrange subsequently became standard in archaeological literature.
Human geography uses location analysis to define models for the understanding of the territorial organisation.
Barton at Project Gutenberg Works by or about George Aaron Barton at the Internet Archive Works by George Aaron Barton at Open Library
Hecht, neuroarchaoelogy "has specific theoretical implications that extend beyond the general sense of the neologism.
It is listed and preserved as an archaeological site by the Washington State Office of Archaeology and Historic Preservation.
Hitti See also History of the Hittites Hittite language Hittite grammar Hittite phonology Assyriology Egyptology == References ==
Jehoiachin's rations tablets date from the 6th century BC and describe the oil rations set aside for a royal captive identified with Jeconiah, king of Judah.
Two more texts from the Awām temple, discovered in 2004 by the AFSM, numbered MB 2004 I‐95 and MB 2004 SI‐8 (personal communication of Mohammed Maraqten), remain unpublished.
Canoe in Orion The Yolŋu people of northern Australia say that the constellation of Orion, which they call Julpan (or Djulpan), is a canoe.
Thus the Moon's declination varies cyclically with a period of about four weeks, but the amplitude of this oscillation varies over an 18.6-year cycle.
Findings Tell el-Maqlub was once surrounded by a massive defensive wall, parts of it are still visible today.
In this case the person died in a besieged Grotto, so the key was tossed in the grave similar circumstances mourners will comment by saying, "pity this family, their house is forever closed." Importance These are the first mummies ever to be discovered in Lebanon.
Most tanks are between 1 and 2m in diameter, and around 1m deep, with a potential holding capacity of over 1000 litres.
The site is one of five built by Maharaja Jai Singh II of Jaipur, from 1723 onwards, revising the calendar and astronomical tables.
Practitioners In English, people who practice magnet fishing may be called magnetfishers or magneteers.
The monument inspired the architectural designs of two notable five-star hotels in Indonesia: the nearby Amanjiwo (from where the temple can be seen on a clear day), and Hyatt Regency Yogyakarta in Sleman.
She was laid down at Woolwich Dockyard in 1746 but was unfinished when the war ended in 1748, causing construction to slow.
They built the original manor house and, perhaps, a few dwellings or small farms, but for the next two centuries it appears that little further development occurred.
Art Newgrange contains various examples of graphic Neolithic rock art carved onto its stone surfaces.
In areas of semi-literacy the term Protohistoric archaeology can be adopted to cover the study of societies with very limited written records.
Silvia, "The Tall el-Hammam Season Ten, 2015: Excavation, Survey, Interpretations and Insights", Filed with the Jordan Department of Antiquities, 2 April 2015 Porat, Pinhas, "Tombs at Tell el-Hammam (H.
The tide turned after a bitter personal and scholarly conflict between the scientists involved, and an alleged interference by the Syrian authorities on political grounds.
A leat, called a main, carrier or top carrier, diverted water from the river and carried it down the valley at a gentler slope than the river, producing a hydrostatic head between the two.
The green dominates the village, and slopes down to a duck pond, and is occasionally flooded after heavy rain.
The Wilderness Warrior: Theodore Roosevelt and the Crusade for America, (2009) excerpt and text search Carson, Rachel, Silent Spring (Cambridge, Mass.
Archaeological science consists of the application of scientific techniques to the analysis of archaeological materials and sites.
More regional specific categories include: Classical archaeology is the study of the past using both material evidence (i.e.
Environmental history increasingly highlights the ways in which the middle-class environmental movement has fallen short and left behind entire communities.
An Anglo-Saxon multiple estate was a large landholding controlled from a central location with surrounding subsidiary settlements.
Most of the documents which were made in the beginning of the second millennium BC were made of clay.
Whether this was done to deliberately place his tomb in the precincts of Hatshepsut's temple or to reach better quality sandstone is not known.
This claim was questioned and it was suggested that the wheat DNA was too pristine and probably represents contamination.
For Faucounau, the Pelasgians, the Trojans, the Carians and the Philistines are all descended from the Proto-Ionians.
Poland According to Polish penal code, magnet fishing without a valid government permit is a crime punishable by up to two years imprisonment.
Three-quarters of the earth is covered by water, and in the fabric of human history, the most pervasive thread is our association with the planet's oceans, rivers and lakes.
History Deer hay winds, folds and elricks were sites where by means of traps wild deer were killed or caught.
At least three of the Biblical Ahijahs were priests and the inscription may be a reference to a priestly family rather than a deity.
Some privy diggers also research excavation sites where old houses and other buildings, such as factories, saloons, and hotels once were.
It also accords with the LXX rendering of Zechariah 14:5, which states a valley will be blocked up as far as Azal.
Graveyards The orderly burial of inhumations oriented in a west to east direction with no intercutting was the normal pattern for graveyard burial.
It is said to have one of the oldest plateaus on the planet, estimated to be 3,000 million years old.
Dump digging is the practice of locating and excavating old garbage dumps with the intent of discovering objects which have potential value as collectibles or antiques.
They used the analogy of small shops gathering together in large shopping centres for joint promotion.
His father, of the same name, was the commander of the Scottish Guard; he accidentally killed King Henry II of France in a jousting tournament.
Academic status The concept has been criticised – for example, because the evidence used is often much later than the date of the proposed estate.
Lunn was still arguing that scoop wheels were a better solution if the initial cost did not rule them out, they were employed in situations where the water did not need to be raised by more than 8 feet (2.4 m), and where the water levels of the input and output did not vary much.
In England, nucleated settlements prevail for example in central parts of the country away from the rockiest soil and steepest slopes where open field farming predominated.
Northern Dene (Athabaskan) peoples in Alaska and north-western Canada read the Milky Way and adjacent star-groups as a single, whole-sky “Traveller” constellation.
Mummies of cats, fish and crocodiles are on display in this unique museum, where one can also get an idea of the tools used.
The Coronation foundered in a strong south easterly gale whilst trying to round Penlee Point with a loss of all but 13 of her crew, including the captain, Charles Skelton.
Articles The project also has originated a serie of publications in different journals: Ramírez Sánchez, M.; García Sánchez, M.; Giralt Soler, S.
Etymology and placenames Toft occurs in late Old English toft, with Old English declension (plural) toftas > tofts.
Further evidence for this view is provided by the bas-reliefs, which proceed in a counter-clockwise direction—prasavya in Hindu terminology—as this is the reverse of the normal order.
It was not until 1989 that the Catholic Church allowed the technique to be used on the Turin Shroud, indicating that the linen fibres were of medieval origin.
Economic anthropology Economic anthropology is the study of the social context of economic transactions to explore the varied connections between culture and economy.
The Balinese variation is among the most impressive metal artifact in the late prehistoric period of Indonesia.
cxlvi) permitted the erection of boundary markers to indicate where this boundary lay; and about fifty markers, inscribed with a reference to the act, were erected.
References About marine archeology at the website of Sjöhistoriska museet (Swedish), läst den 10 August 2019 External links Official website Video on the Baltic Sea cultural heritage
The village is notable for the large number of dolmens found immediately to the west, thought to be from around 2500 BC.
Great pains were taken to follow the exact route, in some cases passing through private houses, going through one window by ladder and out the other, or traversing walls.
The most significant difference was the coal consumption, which was reduced from 11.64 pounds (5.28 kg) per hour to 6.66 pounds (3.02 kg) per hour for the newer system.
Mauch, Christof, "Notes From the Greenhouse: Making the Case for Environmental History", RCC Perspectives 2013, no.
Position of Ionic Greek Mainstream Greek linguistics separates the Greek dialects into two large genetic groups, one including Doric Greek and the other including both Arcadocypriot and Ionic Greek.
The classification of Roman inscriptions may, therefore, follow the same lines as the Greek, except that certain categories are absent, and that some others, not found in Greek, are of considerable importance.
He taught at the École until 1984 and directed the institute between 1966 and 1971 or 1964–1972, as well as its journal, the Revue biblique, from 1953 to 1968.
In 2004, the Investigative Committee of Israel alleged it was a part of an antiquities fraud and was involved with other suspected archaeological forgeries such as the Jehoash Inscription.
In order for sourcing to be effective, something must distinguish the material source from similar sources.
And who is skeptical of this, still implicitly agree with this, indicating what language the text on the monument is written.
Crommelin, FRAS, has disputed this latitude, arguing that the constellation makers could only see to 54° S, but that this was compatible with latitudes as low as the 31°N of Alexandria; stars which only skirt the southern horizon by a few degrees are not effectively visible.
A historical reenactment society from King Edward's School, Birmingham have visited the museum several times as a part of their education.
Magna Carta Magna Carta, the charter forced upon King John of England by the English barons in 1215, contained five clauses relating to royal forests.
The route leads through 13 countries thus far (in 2014): United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Czech Republic, Poland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and Portugal (in 2017).
The end of the duties The coal duties had always been unpopular and were the subject of attacks by pamphleteers (for example Joseph Bottomley Firth in 1887) throughout their life.
Archaeologists have pointed out that, although home spaces are generally considered to have become increasingly gendered, it is erroneous to assume that only women occupied the private (home) sphere and men the public.
And, in September 2014, experts and scholars from TICCIH (International Committee for the Conservation of the Industrial Heritage), ERIH, and the Asian Region signed a Memorandum of Understanding to initiate its establishment.
Secondary cremation may also more specifically refer to a cremation where the body is burned on a pyre, after which the bones are collected from the ashes and buried elsewhere (Sprague 2005:138).
A year before this dispute the government charged Marx of contraband backing this claim with a catalogue of a 1983 Amsterdam auction where gold coins and other artefacts were offered for sale by Marx and his associates that had not been declared by Marx despite an agreement to do so.
Sometimes, Prehodnica or Preodnica - literally "crosser over", signifying that it appears on both sides of the sky (Eastern and Western) and the understanding that it crosses from one side of the sky to the other.
Neuroarchaeology's interdisciplinary approach provides new opportunities for investigating the human mind and the role of material culture in human cognition and cognitive evolution.
Dever detailing his response to the claims of minimalists to the historicity and value of the Hebrew Bible.
The association of large-mammal hunting tools with a female individual suggests that the individual was likely a hunter.
Always a strong believer in the Qumran-Essene hypothesis, he differed with de Vaux over interpretations of the site of Qumran.
Notes References External links These Divers Search For Slave Shipwrecks and Discover Their Ancestors.
Pin-Beaters Ten, complete, double-ended points, commonly known as pin-beaters, used in weaving and highly polished from use.
Anegundi, previously called Kishkindha, is a village in Gangavathi, Koppal district, in the Indian state of Karnataka.
Tarawneh, "The Tall el-Hammam Excavation Project: End of Season Activity Report—Season Eight: 2013 Excavation, Exploration, and Survey", Filed with the Jordan Department of Antiquities 15 March 2013 Collins, S, G.A.
It was sung at Westminster Abbey at the memorial service for John Smith, the leader of the British Labour Party.
Albright identifies Bar-hadad with Ben-hadad I, who was a contemporary of the biblical Asa and Baasha.
The database included approximately 25,000 bones, predominantly of cattle and sheep, but also of pig, horse, dog, goat, domestic fowl, and goose.
The other tools in the kit include stone hide scrapers, flakes, a knife, choppers, cobbles, and red ocher, all of which were likely used for animal processing.
Few today would describe themselves as "antiquaries", but some institutions such as the Society of Antiquaries of London (founded in 1707) retain their historic names.
He also took part in the various spin-off series such as Time Team Extra (1998), Time Team Digs (2002) and Time Team Live.
Unlike constructed tombs or graves, mortuary caves utilize pre-existing geological formation such as limestone caves, sinkholes and rock fissures.
Nonetheless, experienced analysts using systematic criteria can distinguish the two with high reliability.
Notes References André Lemaire, Une inscription paleo-hebraique sur grenade en ivoire, Revue Biblique, Vol.
All were built at the command of the Raja Jai Singh II, who had a keen interest in mathematics, architecture and astronomy.
The existence of huge bronze drums in Bali indicates an intensive inter-island trade between Bali and other parts of Indonesia during the first millennium AD.
Translation The tablets' text states: Another tablet reads: A sila is a Babylonian unit of capacity equivalent to approximately 800 mL (1.7 US pints).
The show's presenter has changed several times since the original host of Mark Williams in 2001 and 2002.
In March and April 2017 Faʻafaite voyaged to the Austral Islands to support the Rāhui nui no Tuha'a Pae marine reserve project.
Later work identified the Bayon as a Buddhist site, built almost three centuries later than originally thought, in the late 12th century, and Phnom Bakheng as King Yasovarman's state temple.
Under the Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976 the WAM was given the power it needed to continue as it had been.
Construction sites and major developments around older areas of towns and cities are also likely places to look for evidence of privies.
Because both are microorganisms, both fall under the study of microbiology and special techniques are required for archaeologists to even see them.
Major contributors included France (via the École française d'Extrême-Orient), Japan (JASA), India (Archaeological Survey of India), Germany (GACP), the United States (World Monuments Fund), South Korea, China, and Italy.
He began by meeting passengers who arrived by steamship at Progreso, the port north of Mérida, and persuading them to spend a week in Yucatán, after which they would catch the next steamship to their next destination.
Unlike later ancient individuals sequenced from the Lake Titicaca region, SMP5, along with USR1 from the Upward Sun River site, Anzick-1, Kennewick man, and the individual tested from the Saqqaq culture, shows a genetic affinity for modern Siberian populations, especially the Yakuts.
Knowledge of the limits of each parish needed to be handed down so that such matters as liability to contribute to the repair of the church or the right to be buried within the churchyard were not disputed.
Its deck structures are also intact, including a mast, and rope attached on the top, rising some 11 m into the water column.
The assessment shows that there are over 4,700 Royal Naval wrecks scattered across the oceans of the world, covering the period between 1512 and 1945.
Initiators of the Ancient Fishweir Project include Gill Solomon, Sachem of the Massachuset Tribe; Ross Miller; Dena Dincauze, archeologist; Ellen Berkland, Archeologist for the City of Boston; and Annawon Weedon and Jim Peters of the Wampanoag Tribe.
Hispaniola, together with Jamaica, was originally settled by adventurous men seeking the life of a buccaneer, and until the 18th century, these islands thrived through piracy rather than through growing sugar.
See also List of hats and headgear Casco de Leiro – a Bronze Age gold helmet from Galicia, NW Iberia Nebra sky disc – another Central European metal object from the Bronze Age expressing advanced knowledge of astronomy, between 1700 and 2100 BC.
It houses tools dating back 30,000 to 35,000 years and crafted by Mousterian Neanderthals in Yafteh.
Khaled al-Asaad was principal custodian of the Palmyra site from 1963, overseeing its elevation to a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Known as the Pullman Limited, this ran between London Victoria and Brighton via Horsham and subsequently ordinary rolling stock was added to the service.
[3] Terms of reference for the Space Heritage Task Force] written by Alice Gorman and John B Campbell (2003) Beth L.
The Religion and Rituals of the Nomads of Pre-Islamic Arabia: A Reconstruction Based on the Safaitic Inscriptions.
Position fixing Knowing the location of an archaeological site is fundamental to being able to study it.
The site is mentioned in a boundary description in Hasseki Sultan imaret's endowment deed, dated to 1552.
In addition to Western Europe, dispersed patterns of settlement are found in parts of Papua New Guinea, as among the Gainj, Ankave, and Baining tribes.
It is made from a depiction from the manuscript Hausbuch at Schloss Wolfegg and is said to be the first tank in history.
Asterix-1 had a very short lived transmission period of two days but remains in orbit and is expected to for centuries.
The use of aerial photography (including satellite imagery and Lidar) remains the most widespread remote-sensing technique.
'Steve' Newham and Sir Fred Hoyle, the famous Cambridge cosmologist, as well as by Alexander Thom, a retired professor of engineering, who had been studying stone circles for more than 20 years.
Eylayyan, "The Tall el-Hammam Excavation Project: End of Season Activity Report—Season Seven: 2012 Excavation, Exploration, and Survey", Filed with the Jordan Department of Antiquities 30 February 2012 Collins, S.
In addition, research shows that the Great North Road, a thirty-five mile engineered "road", was constructed not for utilitarian purposes but rather to connect the ceremonial center of Chaco Canyon with the direction north.
They were the first lords of the manor and they called the village Costentinstune, which over time became known as Cosmeston.
On the "documentary hypothesis" and the formation of the Torah At the time Van Seters published "Abraham in History and Tradition" the dominant scholarly theory regarding the composition of the Pentateuch was the Documentary Hypothesis.
The Cooke disc has similar fittings to the Trundholm chariot, suggesting that it was also originally connected to a sun horse and mounted on wheels.
A drought in the region would have affected local systems of agriculture and likely played a role in the collapse of Tiwanaku.
Venus Depending on how it appears, Venus may be called differently: Danica - Day star, signifying that it could be seen during the day; Danica is also a female given name.
The destination of the ship's cargo were mostly temples and shrines in Kyoto, such as Tōfuku-ji temple, and in Hakata, such as Jōten-ji Temple.
There are two universities in Turkey with a Hittitology major studies besides some minors and chairs, one of Istanbul University and Ankara University.
It was also influential in the passage of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act a year later.
Archaeological evidence indicates that the shipwreck is one of a merchant trader, probably sinking in the second half of the 17th century.
If using the paleontological definition of a death assemblage, in archaeology, the faunal assemblage is inherently a death assemblage, since archaeologists assume that humans killed the animals found within the deposits.
It is mentioned by Dominoes Paes, the Portuguese traveller in the 16th century, with a coracle carrying "about twenty persons and horses and oxen to cross the river." During the 16th—18th centuries, Anegundi was ruled by Bijapur Sultans, Moghuls, Marathas and Tipu Sultan.
Occasionally, and more frequently in later times, the artist's signature was carved upon some portion of the statue itself.
However in Book III of Latium Kircher offered a completely different interpretation of the piece, based on the idea that it depicted ceremonies in honour of the goddess of fortune.
For example, in 1995 during Hurricane Marilyn the National Media Lab assisted the National Archives and Records Administration in recovering data at risk due to damaged equipment.
According to the Commons Act 2006, land used for informal recreation for at least 20 years can be registered as green and is then protected from development.
A raised pathway, first going northwest to southeast from the old capital to the new capital's outer moat and then turning to go east to west, connected directly to the east entrance of the temple.
archaeologists collaborated to produce a short, illustrated historical fiction book about Wilamaya Patjxa based on archaeology, ethnography, and traditional Aymara knowledge.
The cult of Dionysus and Osiris may have come close, according to a "commonly accepted assimilation." The cult of Isis imposed on its followers "a severe discipline, even to the point of asceticism", and Beccut's epitaph accords with these principles of life.
Artefacts Archaeological excavations were carried out in 1964–1965, with recovered evidence including a small flint blade 4 cm long, animal bones, flints, and charcoal, dated to the Iron Age.
The vaka is made of laminated wood, 72 feet long, with a displacement of 10 to 12 tons, and a crew of 18.
1962 Castilly henge, near Lanivet 1963 The Rumps 1964 Carn Euny Publications The Society publishes a journal Cornish Archaeology Hendhyscans Kernow in most years.
The documents have provided a wealth of information, but they have also raised questions about their origins.
2001) and examples of the new rolling stock were exhibited at London Victoria and Brighton stations from 29 December 1932.
Johann Joachim Winckelmann was one of the founders of scientific archaeology and first applied the categories of style on a large, systematic basis to the history of art.
Thom's thesis, based on a statistical analysis of Neolithic monuments in the United Kingdom, is that the builders of these sites employed a common unit of measurement, although it has not been demonstrated how this information could have been shared.
Efficiency was calculated as 46 per cent for the scoop wheel and 52.79 per cent for the centrifugal pump.
The temples were part of a People's Army of Vietnam and Viet Cong base area when United States aircraft bombed the region in August 1969.
This finding has implications for certain then-current strands in Biblical criticism: "Consequently, without any such effective historical controls on the tradition one cannot use any part of it in an attempt to reconstruct the primitive period of Israelite history.
The Martians' behaviour and personalities were initially developed while the puppeteers were messing around on set.
After catching Necrozma at Mount Lanakila, Colress will appear and give the player the N-Solarizer or N-Lunarizer, allowing Necrozma to fuse or separate from Solgaleo or Lunala respectively.
Artificial humans and autonomous artificial servants have a long history in human culture, though the term Robot and its modern literary conception as a mobile machine equipped with an advanced artificial intelligence are more fairly recent.
In a conversation with George, Andrew realizes he must also expand his vocabulary, and decides to go to the library.
Through both routine labor, and many misadventures, Shelby endures much positive character building.
storyline in Avengers #386–387 (May–June 1995), Captain America #440 (June 1995), The Avengers #388 (July 1995) and Captain America #441 (July 1995), MODOK is resurrected.
Invader Zim ultimately ended up being sandwiched between The Fairly OddParents and Rocket Power, which did not feel like a suitable time slot for the show, according to the creator.
He obtained the Book of Envy when Merlok scattered the Books of Power across the kingdom, making him desire everything.
He created the Forbidden Power of Petrified Quake by combining two other Forbidden Powers together, allowing his Krakenbeast to generate earthquakes and petrify objects with a roar.
Studio engaged in 'silent running.' " However, in October 2010, Bear commented on his website that Ken Nolan (who wrote the screen adaptation for Ridley Scott's Black Hawk Down film), was actively working on a screenplay.
The team then "unplugs" Neo and with the help of a friendly machine, who was hacked, he is revived in the real world inside Bugs' ship, the Mnemosyne.
He falls out of grace for a short while after Nico Minoru discovers that the Pride has tapped into Victor's circuits and was using him to spy on the team.
In June 2021 Ubisoft announced in a press release that the game had been played by 7.5 million players.
Relentless in her pursuit, she contends with adversaries from her distant past and colleagues of uncertain loyalty, all while racing against time.
He appeared as the brother to the other protagonist, Edward, in their searching for a way to recover their bodies.
Hot Toys produced a 1/6 scale 15-inch ED-209 model as part of their Movie Masterpiece series - the popularity of this model later prompted the release of a battle-damaged version.
The term "Rocket Reds" refers to any member of the Rocket Red Brigade; the name in the singular is used to refer to the three individual characters named Rocket Red who were members of the Justice League.
Additionally, the player can join either Team Rainbow or Team Inferno and compete in daily missions to win teardrops by dashing through the most stars.
Tōko Kuzunoha (葛葉 刀子, Kuzunoha Tōko) is the woman in charge of the Mahora mage organization's operations division, ranking second only to the Headmaster.
Despite reports, the model was not destroyed during filming and was sent out on promotional tours after.
As a result of appearing in the series mostly in his armor, Arakawa has been focused on searching ways to make it appear as Alphonse is expressing emotions despite not having a body.
In "Too Young", he takes over as ruler of the Candy Kingdom when Bubblegum is deemed too young after being de-aged in the events of "Mortal Recoil"; jailing most of the candy subjects before Bubblegum returns to her original age.
The player can collect teardrops to customize their character and complete missions to unlock new content and abilities.
Original ThunderCats Jaga Jaga (voiced by Earl Hammond in the original series, Corey Burton in the 2011 series, Larry Kenney in ThunderCats Roar) is also known as "Jaga the Wise" and is based on the Jaguar.
MODOK appears as a boss in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order, voiced again by Wally Wingert.
WEP purchased the rights to the original Dairugger XV as well as Albegas and Golion some time previously, so Bandai had to relicense the toys back from WEP to produce them.
The T-X is designed to not only terminate humans, but also rogue Terminators reprogrammed by the Resistance, an "anti-terminator terminator" as stated by John Connor.
Biff's DeLorean gets damaged by a T-Rex and lands in a volcano while the T-Rex swallows the 8-passenger DeLorean, but spits it back out.
Xavier tells Havok to destroy Cerebro after Apocalypse takes control of Xavier's powers through Cerebro.
The incident trapped her in a building on Devastis, the Irken military training planet, causing her to miss her chance to take the test to become one of the Irken Elite Soldiers (and an Invader).
For example, excessive energy consumption without adequate heat removal could plausibly render the planet of a Type I approaching civilization unsuitable for the biology of the dominant life forms and their food sources.
There are three classes of ship hulls: small, medium, and large, which are unlocked as the player climbs the appropriate research tree.
The character also appeared the same month in the small-press hobbyist magazine The Comic Reader #44 (Jan.
Robo Warriors (also known as Robot Jox 3: 2086 Apocalypse) is a 1996 American post-apocalyptic mecha science-fiction film directed by Ian Barry.
It was written and storyboarded by Tom Herpich and Steve Wolfhard, from a story by Patrick McHale, Kent Osborne, Pendleton Ward, Rebecca Sugar, Herpich, and Wolfhard.
Zoids (ゾイド, Zoido) is a Japanese science fiction media franchise owned by Tomy that features mecha called Zoids, with designs being based on animals including dinosaurs, mammals, insects, arachnids and mythological creatures.
Young Cricket (Japanese: ヤングクリケット, Hepburn: Yangu Kuriketto) is first introduced in WarioWare: Smooth Moves.
Alternatively, another way is to take one entrance of the wormhole and move it to within the gravitational field of an object that has higher gravity than the other entrance, and then return it to a position near the other entrance.
In 2011 Swardson revealed he had written a four-part mystery series, "Gay Robot and the Curse of the Haunted Jockstrap" for Gay Robot, but the network killed it after the script phase.
For example, to deceive Wei, Chip consents to the replacement of his green eye with a brown one even though it involves giving up a cherished part of his identity.
Machinesmith later appears in Madripoor, having captured Captain America and deactivated the Super Soldier Serum in his foe's body.
The first scene of the story is explained as Andrew seeks out a robotic surgeon to perform an ultimately fatal operation: altering his positronic brain so that it will decay with time.
1969), and briefly appeared as a character using the Mister Fear identity shortly thereafter in Daredevil #54 (July 1969).
Moe explains BMO's backstory, revealing that BMO was created to take care of and have fun with Moe's son; however, Moe never had children and so he released BMO into the wild to find another family.
Publication history Calculator first appeared in Detective Comics #463 (September 1976), and he was created by Bob Rozakis and Mike Grell.
Moon is taken to the capital planet, Kharemough, and discovers that the Winters' prejudice against sibyls is a political tool used by the Hegemony to preserve its control of technology on Tiamat.
Doing so causes Vision great mental strain; he quickly realizes that what he has done his wrong and that the crystal is negatively influencing his emotional judgment.
At the height of the series' popularity, fizzbomb sweets were marketed in the UK under the name Metal Mickey's Atomic Thunderbusters.
These providers enable direct access to databases such as Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and others, and are commonly used in applications that require cross-platform data access, integration with ORM technologies, or support for specific database features.
By the end of the year, the two games had sold over 2 million copies in Japan alone, making it the best-selling video game in the country for 2017.
They make use of numerous experiments on the human populace such as the use of nanites to create a virus that turns a human into a synthetic.
This lets Q and his friends have fun in the 9.9999+ range, but also lets our ship travel slowly enough to keep the galaxy a big place, and meets the other criteria.
However to her and Finn's surprise, they have both fallen in love with each other, but Huntress Wizard states that they are "exceptional beasts" and therefore incapable of being together, which Finn concurs.
New features Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon introduce some new Ultra Beasts: Stakataka, Blacephalon, Poipole and its evolution, Naganadel.
Players can also weaken an enemy system's defenders by placing their fleets in orbit and besieging the enemy system, which decreases the number of enemy troops.
Rin Todoriki (等々力 凛, Tōdōriki Rin) Voiced by: Manabi Mizuno (Japanese); Dorothy Elias-Fahn (English) Rin is the brown-haired and tallest member of the "Triomatic." She is the most ladylike of the three, but is also a skilled martial artist and very loyal.
It is not clear whether it finds mutants by their power signature or by the presence of the X-gene in their body; both methods have been used throughout the comics.
Merchandise A magazine was published in July 2002, corresponding with the show's "Get Streetwise" road safety campaign.
After having a change of heart, he decides to help the group, even risking his life by destroying a version of himself to extract the Black Materia Sephiroth needs to summon the Meteor spell.
Sanderson also found traces of William Shakespeare's characters Richard III and Iago in Doom; all of them "are descended from the 'vice' figure of medieval drama", who address the audience in monologs detailing their thoughts and ambitions.
Every girl on Planet Purple is named "Pauline" and every boy is named "Paul." Purple Panda, a resident of Planet Purple, can return there "the purple way" (just by thinking).
Angry Video Game Nerd: The Movie (2014) At the end of the Spielberg Games review, it was implied that E.T.
Reception Box office Pacific Rim Uprising grossed $59.9 million in the United States and Canada, and $231.1 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $290.9 million, against a production budget of about $150 million.
The sophistication of positronic circuitry renders a brain so small that it could comfortably fit within the skull of an insect.
Axlotl tanks are eventually revealed to be semi-artificial uteri created by transforming women into biological factories.
ISBN 1-46546-087-X LEGO NEXO KNIGHTS Build Your Own Adventure : With Minifigure and exclusive model.
This allowed Monstrox to persuade him to turn to evil in order to take revenge on his former mockers.
Hope Frozen premiered at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival 2019, where it won the Best International Feature Documentary award, and was shown at several documentary film festivals.
British comics historian Steve Holland would even go as far as to suggest that Thunder was deliberately created to be merged into Lion.
Zingbot 9000 (formerly Zingbot 3000), colloquially known as Zingbot, is a robot visitor that is featured on the American version of the television show Big Brother, which airs on CBS.
Similarly, another feature that differentiates him from others is repeated use of the word "Yosh" (meaning alright in Japanese) during speech as well as shouting "AOW!" to express excitement and boastfulness.
Even when allied with others, he often seeks personal gain, as seen when he attempted to steal Thanos’ Infinity Gauntlet during a confrontation with the Titan.
Sea Monster Army The Sea Monster Army is a group of monsters seen in the book "Lego Nexo Knights: The Book of Monsters" and did not appear in the TV series.
It won the 49th International Emmy Award for Best Documentary in 2021, becoming the first Thai production to win an International Emmy.
Reception Cultural impact In an episode of The Simpsons ("I, D'oh-Bot"), Homer fights an ED-209 built by Professor Frink and his son in a robot-fighting television show called Robot Rumble.
Johansson is aboard the Marie Celeste, and the action ends with him preparing to kill the Starflyer.
A U.S.–Soviet race to build the Machine ensues, but Soviet design flaws leave the American version as the only option.
A typical videophone call from Spacely starts with him yelling "JETSON!!!" He attempts to fire George for the slightest offense, though Spacely gives George his job back at the end of the episode or before the beginning of the next episode.
Constance Elizabeth Chapman (1919–2005) was a British children's author who created a series of books based on a fictional red lorry called "Marmaduke".
This is because underground at distance r {\displaystyle r} from the center is like being on the surface of a planet of radius r {\displaystyle r} , within a hollow sphere which contributes nothing.
GamesRadar's Tyler Wilde wrote that Wheatley was "surprisingly expressive" and called it "bumbling".
Writer Holly Harold questions whether or not Jimmy has taken over the place in Chloe's heart that Clark occupied for so long.
Drones get around the limitations of this inanimation with the ability to project "fields": both those capable of physical force, which allow them to manipulate objects, as well as visible, coloured fields called "auras", which are used to enable the drone to express emotion.
He also came up with a new spell: "Spell Synthesis: Lightning God Lance: Titan Slayer" which is a new high class lightning spell that he used to lure Jack Rakan into a trap in their gladiator match.
The evacuees eventually settle a newly terraformed Mars while some form the crew of a Ship of the Law to hunt down the home world of the killers, a quest described in the sequel, Anvil of Stars.
The stories were originally published in the science fiction magazine Amazing Stories from 1939 to 1942.
Since the Arusian Voltron is too far away to help these explorers, a totally new Voltron has to be constructed to battle the Drule threat.
Though the Great Intelligence was brought back as an antagonist in the seventh series of Doctor Who's 2005 revival, the Yeti were not brought back with it.
Author Nikki Stafford connects Adam's need to learn about the world around him to Frankenstein's monster: Adam must understand why other people are here and why he has emotions, a peculiarity of his creation as Dr.
Unmatched in raw strength, Ayla is the chief of Ioka Village and leads her people in war against a species of humanoid reptiles known as Reptites.
Expanding Imaginations and Fantasy Genres Zauberer Berlin (in German) Judgments of effort for magical violations of intuitive physics External links Lawrence Watt-Evans, "Laws of Fantasy", Starlog Patricia C.
Great Boomerang - グレート ブーメラン: The great red "V" plate on his chest can be picked up and thrown at enemies, with a boomerang effect.
The Vancian magic system included "basic assumptions about how arcane magic worked" that "only began to change with D&D 3e (2000), which introduced the non-memorizing sorcerer, and with D&D 3.5e (2003), which introduced the at-will warlock".
This resulted in a purposeless Lich trapped in a comatose state within Prismo's chamber until the events of "Wake Up" and "Escape from the Citadel" when Finn and Jake need to commit a cosmic crime to reach the multiverse prison called the Citadel.
After finally disabling the defender droid and destroying the Jeremiah O'Brian, the player is brought back to Starbase Amethyst expecting to be greeted as a hero for saving the world and stopping the war.
Legion's backstory involves him retracing the worlds Shepard had visited in the first Mass Effect, searching for the human who managed to defeat Sovereign and the geth heretic faction.
Alastor decides to engage Vox in combat; in response, he overloads the cannon with power, to the point that, if fired, will wipe out all of Hell.
One of the areas within the Vortex uses the "Singing Mountain" song that was featured on the original Chrono Trigger soundtrack.
Jason is bumped out of the wormhole by London Jefferson's abandoned space shuttle, which had earlier been sucked into the same vortex while fleeing Planet #666.
In 1986, the novel won the Locus Award for Best First Novel, and placed #15 in the poll for the Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel.
The Smash Martians were the stars of a series of 1970s and early 1980s TV advertising campaigns for Smash instant mashed potato in the UK.
He first appears in "Korn's Groovy Pirate Ghost Mystery", Kenny wears a life-sized ED-209 Halloween costume.
As the final Incursion approaches in the Secret Wars storyline, Doom usurps the power of the Beyonders with the aid of Doctor Strange and Molecule Man.
To ensure the machines felt grounded in reality, the audio team avoided relying exclusively on synthetic noises, instead anchoring the digital samples by layering them with organic, real-world animal recordings.
The Goo faction features the game's namesake, self replicating nanobots that can move around the map consuming enemies and forming themselves into new units.
Merchant also spoke some of the written dialogue in a way that seemed improvisational, such as in the "reading and repetition of words".
A digital speedometer is attached to the dashboard so that the operator can accurately gauge the car's speed.
Gerry Anderson believed that Penelope and Tin-Tin's trip to Olsen's lodge looked suitably realistic, despite APF never having shown puppets skiing prior to this episode.
However, the entry was pushed back until it was finalized during the latter part of the fifth season; according to both supervising producer Adam Muto and Rebecca Sugar, by the time the episode was being developed during the fifth season, it had substantially changed.
For the scene in "The Cham-Cham" where Penelope glides across the Paradise Peaks ballroom while singing "Dangerous Game", Webb worked the puppet from the stage while fellow operator Christine Glanville controlled its wired top portion from an overhead gantry.
A minor scuffle ensues between Dita and Chi, before Zima restrains Dita, wishing to see the outcome of Hideki's decision and ultimately too falling under Chi's influence.
Additionally, the Doom Patrol incarnation of Robotman (see below) appears in the episode "Game Over", with Riley Shanahan replacing Michaels.
This led to the longest running of Confused.com’s campaigns, starting from 2005 until 2008, featuring simple cardboard props on a white background, later with people saying they were "Confused.com" by the depicted marketplace.
Accelerando is a 2005 science fiction novel consisting of a series of interconnected short stories written by British author Charles Stross.
Plot introduction The book is a collection of nine short stories telling the tale of three generations of a family before, during, and after a technological singularity.
The opening chapters describe the creation of Roderick and show his mind (at first consisting of a bodiless computer program) developing through several stages of awareness.
Frost, disillusioned by the Mothervine plot, frees Polaris's team, who make their way to the inner circle's meeting room.
Five Nights at Freddy's 3, which earned a Metacritic score of 68, maintained the franchise's core formula but updated its camera system; Petitte appreciated these improvements but felt the phantom animatronics fell short of their older counterparts.
However, on Big Brother 17, he got an upgrade, now named the "Zingbot 9000" which had much more brutal zings on August 26, 2015.
She is reunited with her son after the Justice League revives him, and Bruce Wayne manages to buy her house back from the bank after the team, including Superman, defeats the forces of Apokolips.
Ubisoft released post-launch downloadable content (DLC) through a season pass, which includes new weapons, solo challenges, cooperative maps, and story-based content.
There is even the mysterious Pennsylvania Pratt [Scrimshander Limes] who has forgotten his identity after a personal tragedy and remembers it temporarily while saving shipwreck [sabotage] victims.
Barrie lost his older brother, the character of Yoyo reflects the idea of a "boy who couldn't grow up." In the same interview, Park also commented on the novel's setting in a reunified Korea.
Meanwhile, Jeff assigns Lady Penelope and Tin-Tin to investigate Paradise Peaks, a mountaintop hotel in the Swiss Alps that is currently playing host to Cass Carnaby and his group.
Manga adaptation The anime series also was adapted into a few manga issues published as one-shot stories, based on the storylines shown in the anime.
The study was expanded to include homosexual women; the results were consistent with previous findings meaning that homosexual women were not as responsive to male identified odors, while their response to female cues was similar to that of heterosexual males.
For the combined field, gravity and electricity, Einstein and Rosen derived the following Schwarzschild static spherically symmetric solution where ε {\displaystyle \varepsilon } is the electric charge.
His character has been well received by readers of the series; he has consistently appeared in the top ten series' popularity polls.
The conclusion from these experiments was that the effect observed by Brown was "ion wind"; no experiments found evidence that thrust could be observed in a vacuum.
The descendants of the Autobots, the Maximals from Transformers: Beast Wars, are also known as Cybertrons in Japan.
Simian Lucy Simian (voiced by Lewis MacLeod, season 1; Hugo Harrison, season 2 onward) is a 2-million-year-old baboon, the sadistic teacher of Gumball and Darwin's class as well as a major antagonist.
Rover behaves as if it were a self-aware or quasi-intelligent entity and can interact with its surroundings, as well as adjusting to and anticipating the actions of Number 6 and other characters.
Although they had been a cohesive group of friends in the first three seasons, situations arise in the fourth to separate them.
As Allison Mack explains, Chloe is so blinded by her love for Clark that she neglects to see all of the mistakes that he makes.
His name was first mentioned in The Old Castle's Secret by Carl Barks, but his true first appearance was in The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck, Part 9: The Billionaire of Dismal Downs, by Don Rosa.
The trio soon found themselves careering through history, battling the cruel Hugo the Black Wolf in the 14th century, freeing a future version of London from the rule of the Superons, defeating crooked 18th century magistrate Sir Jeremiah Creefe, and saved the future from invasion by the Krulls.
In this experiment, the two measurements of an entangled state are correlated even when the measurements are distant from the source and each other.
The mustard of your doom!" was regarded by MTV Multiplayer writer Steven Totilo as one of the most famous lines in video games of recent years and was quoted with "uncommon frequency".
The book explores the theme of government surveillance of electronically stored information on the private lives of citizens, and the possible civil liberties and ethical implications of using such technology.
His name indicates that prior to the events of the Destiny video game series, Cayde-6 has been rebooted six times, which includes the moment he was awoken by his Ghost Sundance as a Guardian, the protectors of Earth's last safe city for humanity.
Following the events of "Flashpoint", Static is given a new flying disk that now contains a holographic interface and is capable of collapsing into separate pieces or re-configuring into various forms for various uses and applications.
Magus tried once more after the party's battle in his castle returned him to Zeal, where he disguised himself as the Prophet.
Imperial nobles would visit Kalgan as a means to indulge themselves, making the planet and its leadership immensely prosperous.
48 Shaula Voiced by: Ami Koshimizu (Japanese); Elizabeth Maxwell (English) Shaula (シャウラ, Shaura) only appears in Soul Eater Not!
Fleets are issued up to three different 'cards', one for each stage of combat, which represent fleet-wide general orders, from categories such as attack, defend, tactics, sabotage, and engineering.
The efficacy and suitability of a specific exoskeleton depends on many aspects of the design, as well as the user and use case.
One character is said to have a Visi-Sonor, the same musical instrument that is played by the clown Magnifico in Foundation and Empire.
This will allow him access to the temple of Gung, a warlord who nearly conquered the world over ten thousand years ago with supernatural power gained from "a fabulous melon-sized jewel", which Zombie obviously plans to use for himself.
Five Nights at Freddy's 3 was teased on Cawthon's website in January 2015, and a trailer was released on January 26, 2015.
Mechakoopa – A robot with a wind-up key that becomes disabled and can be thrown after being stomped on.
These advanced drone units are first suspected to belong to the Silent Ones but are later revealed to be human in origin.
A tie-in to the Friday the 13th series of American horror films, it is the fourth in a series of five Jason X novels published by Black Flame and is set in Moon Camp Americana, a reformatory for wayward girls that is attacked by undead cyborg Jason Voorhees.
In "Ninja Holiday", Cobra Commander holds a secret contest where the winner will be the one to take out Serpentor.
He described this "more cynical worldview" as "anti-technology scaremongering." Heather Alexandra of the same publication noted the character's heavy similarities with Overwatch's Sigma, to the point that they could be the same character.
In 2012, NASA reported that it was experimenting with the concept of warp drive and the loophole within Einstein's theory of relativity.
Serpentor is not seen again in the DiC series, leaving it unclear if Serpentor's iguana form successfully escaped or not.
Both George Lucas's film THX 1138 (1971) and the original novel version of Logan's Run (1967) by William F.
Their bodies were cremated by their son Remy after a malfunction saw their body temperatures rise to -20 °C from -65 °C for a period of several days.
After having become a successful engineering entrepreneur, she went about amassing an army of animals from every zoo and animal shelter by selling them tracking chips.
Two months after I read it, I began 'Robbie', about a sympathetic robot, and that was the start of my positronic robot series.
Since I had no access to a Xerox machine, I did not have a copy of the original drawing, so I recreated the character as best I could from memory.
The real-life venue for Three Weeks in a Helicopter, the Alhambra Music Hall, was ultimately demolished in 1936 to make way for a theatre, reflecting Huxley's fears that mass-produced entertainment would replace art.
The character's primary characteristic is his rivalry with Alastor the Radio Demon, one of the show's main characters.
After his bucket list is completed by Finn, Billy's spirit manifests itself in the stars, thanking Finn for his assistance and revealing that Finn's human father is still alive.
Title In Italian, accelerando means "speeding up" and is used as a tempo marking in musical notation.
Monstrox was a necromancer and former member of the Wizards' Council who terrorized Knighton with his monster armies and the Forbidden Powers a century ago prior to the events of the series.
All of the mentioned examples contained and featured signature swords that, as part of the story, can either backfire on to the user or be corrupted by some other means.
References External links Frederator's Animation and Production Blog Adventure Time on Cartoon Network Adventure Time on Cartoon Network UK
Dean claimed that his device was able to generate a uni-directional force in free space, in violation of Newton's third law of motion from classical physics.
This resulted in her being able to construct force fields out of air and water particles rather than energy.
Later in the series it is realized that in fact Éclair is roughly 250 years old and has been "reborn" several times.
The character also became a fixture in Lion Annual and appeared in three issues of Lion Picture Library.
Support machinery with a vehicle mode, an optional assault body, and possibly other mission-specific optional add-on bodies.
He had a significant presence in the comic series The Invincible Iron Man, which began the same year and ran until 2012.
Space at IMDb Revenge of the Humanoids at IMDb Ginga Patrol PJ (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
A self-professed geek, Virgil is portrayed as avid comic book and video game fan, something that was retained for his animated incarnation.
Victor discovers that his actual "father" is Ultron, who created him as a sleeper agent for the Avengers.
Destructoid's Ray Porreca scored the game a 7.5/10, arguing that "[its] various parts [...] come together in a solid package.
In a drunken vacation mishap, Shelby accidentally ends up in a remote mining colony with no easy return, due to entering a FTL translation node without setting the coordinates.
Merchandise Rocket Red received an action figure in Mattel's DC Universe: Justice League Unlimited Fan Collection toy line.
There was a report that it was being used by aquatic oceanographer and filmmaker Fabien Cousteau to monitor the health of underwater divers.
On May 11, 2020, exactly one day before the Switch version's release, both the PlayStation 4 and the Nintendo Switch versions were eventually rescheduled for June 23, 2020 release due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Transport helicopters such as the "Pegasus" can fly to an object and airlift it to the ship-board recycling system with little resources required.
Sibyls have the ability to communicate with a vast electronic databank, which explains their ability to answer seemingly unknowable questions.
On board Silver Wings of Morning, Hesperus reveals to Campion that while he managed to destroy Cadence before they could leave the Neume star system, Cascade survived and he and Cascade had engaged in a marathon battle, several thousand years.
Modern medical exoskeletons serve a variety of assistive and rehabilitative uses and have regulatory approvals and insurance reimbursement codes in various countries.
The mini-series showed Vision and Wanda moving into a house in Leonia, New Jersey, hoping to strengthen their marriage by enjoying a life and experiences outside of the Avengers.
Most Culture citizens choose this when they reach adulthood (according to The Player of Games this is known as "completing one's name").
Anderson (1999–2001) it is revealed that a renegade House of the Landsraad had devastated the capital of the Corrino Padishah Empire, Salusa Secundus, with atomics and rendered the planet essentially uninhabitable.
For "The Steel Commando" he worked with staff artist Alex Henderson, who had worked on strips such as "Spot the Clue with Zip Nolan" for Lion.
Soundtrack Although no soundtrack album was released at the time, El DeBarge had a chart hit with the single "Who's Johnny (Theme from Short Circuit)".
Kaiser Sigma was designed with the idea of being more "messy" than the original design of the character.
In my sequel, The Humanoid Touch, I tried to work out an alternative." Reception Fantasy Literature said, "It is a finely written, suspenseful, action-packed yarn that is at the same time chock-full of interesting scientific speculations.
Nigel Sheldon is briefly mentioned to have headed to another galaxy as the Void problem ultimately renders the Milky Way doomed.
The Living Force (also known as a spirit or life essence) is the energy generated by all living things.
The Star Wars films illustrate that characters not familiar with the particulars of the Force associate it with mysticism and magic, such as when an Imperial officer alludes to the "sorcerer's ways" of Darth Vader.
Personality and motivations Rhodes is moralistic relative to Stark, divesting Stark Industries from nuclear technology as CEO over objections from the board and taking action against foreign nations without regard for legalities.
The alien race encountered in the original movie is later developed in SG-1 as the Goa'uld, the dominant evil power in the Milky Way.
He was said to rarely forget a formula if he heard it recited, and he was said to be able to learn a language in a matter of days.
After Clay destroys the Book of Monsters, Monstrox survives as a cloud-like being called the Cloud of Monstrox.
Nora Young often encouraged listeners to become "Spark Contributors" by participating in the active conversations on the Spark Blog, notifying the Spark Team of interesting ideas to investigate, or even recording interviews and letting Spark use them on the show.
Collaborative efforts have been used in the past to rewrite the show's sign-off for grammar concerns and to redesign its logo.
She is perhaps best known as the host of the public radio program Tech Nation, its regular segment BioTech Nation, as well as the weekly tech-sci commentary, Five Minutes.
I've been converted." In 1985, following Steve Jobs leaving Apple, Dvorak wrote, "Maybe when the smoke clears, we will have heard the last of Steve Jobs as guru, seer, visionary and hapless victim too ...
Photocastnetwork The podcast is also the flagship show of the Photocast Network, a community of podcasters producing content related to photography.
In April 2024, Universal International Studios acquired the rights to her planned debut novel Sublimation.
Initially, it was distributed by NPR as part of its efforts to invest in podcasts and digital media aimed at wider audiences, including families, as well as Guy Raz's connections to the broadcaster for producing popular shows like the TED Radio Hour and the business podcast How I Built This.
In 2019, the podcast was named the best podcast of the year by Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant and the sixth best podcast of the year by The New Yorker.
In June 2015, Mann began a 10 podcast series with John Siracusa in collaboration with Relay FM called Reconcilable Differences, which has since been extended.
After the title video, the hosts introduce themselves, give the filming location, make any relevant announcements, and discuss the drinks they will have during the episode.
In another video segment, Internet Roundup, Chuck and Josh highlighted a couple of posts found deep in the web that they found interesting, entreating or amusing.
Kugelmass would later begin sharing hosting duties with Jadwiga Najder, Olubunmi Olajide, and Naomi Senehi.
There is a X/Twitter account, an Instagram account, and a Facebook page for SYSK, as well as a now official Facebook group for the SYSK Army, which was created by four listeners on January 30, 2011 (and became official when linked to the SYSK Facebook page on May 10, 2017).
He also produces the Free as in Freedom podcast Format Each episode generally had a global download count of over 20000 and was often presented with both a serious attitude and a humorous bent.
To conclude the podcast, the co-hosts will sum up their feelings of the film with a 140-character "Twitter post".
Background In 2014, Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas had a Twitter exchanged that led to some collaborations.
"The Tech Show" began on KFI weekends in 2004, only months prior to the cancellation of Call for Help and The Screen Savers from the newly merged G4techTV in the United States.
In 2007, Mevio hired Dvorak as vice president and Managing Editor for a new Mevio TECH channel, where he manages content from existing Mevio tech programming.
Panelists The podcast is hosted by Scott Johnson, creator of FrogPants Studios and several other shows, including ExtraLife Radio.
January 8, 2010: On The Early Show, Natali Morris showed of tech his and her gifts for Valentine's Day.
Arment expressed his regret in a follow-up post the next day: "You might think this is a dream come true for a blogger, but it's horrible.
The logo design originated from a traditional logic gate symbol of an "AND gate" turned on its side.
Episodes of Twenty Thousand Hertz have also been featured on the Radiotopia productions 99% Invisible and The Allusionist.
In 2015 the winners in the software category were Scribus which was awarded £1000, GIMP was awarded £300 and Inkscape was awarded £200.
The show was financed by its hosts and is recorded in Thomas's basement studio in Fairfax, Virginia.
After the first eleven episodes over the course of two weeks in November 2008, the series only registered a total of 31,000 views according to Tubemogul.
At first Ezarik was considering producing a video series for the technology audience because they had been the most captive audience for online video series.
History The original version of Radiolab was a three-hour weekly show on New York City radio station WNYC's AM signal.
The Production Board In 2016 Friedberg began speaking with Larry Page about building and financing startups focused on food, agriculture, decarbonization, and life sciences.
The first The Tech Guy show produced at the TWiT Brick House was on July 30, which also was the first broadcast from Leo's office set, which was built to resemble the former Cottage studio.
Presenters Fabian Scherschel Fabian Scherschel is a journalist at Heise Verlag in Hannover, Germany.
Discussions revolve around nuclear power as an alternative and potentially carbon-negative energy source.
Personal life Born in Lawrenceville, Georgia on November 12, 1982, Christina Warren currently resides in Seattle, Washington with her husband, Grant.
Spark Lite, a low-bandwidth podcast of the on-air version powered by blip.tv, was available from November 2008 to October 2011; it ended due to changes in blip.tv policy.
Format Introduction Most episodes begin with a short comedy sketch featuring the hosts (and occasionally their guest) which parodies aspects of the episode's chosen game or subject.
On March 18, 2015, prior to the filming of This Week in Google, Leo Laporte stated that TWiT expects to make $7 million in revenue in fiscal year 2015, and made "almost" $10 million in revenue in 2016.
She won the Clarkesworld reader poll in the Best Short Story category for "Calf Cleaving in the Benthic Black" in 2022.
TWiT Network Before joining TWiT as an employee, Merritt had a long-standing working relationship with former TechTV colleague Leo Laporte's network, having regularly appeared on This Week in Tech as either a guest or as a relief host.
Among his many contributions to A List Apart, his article "To Hell with Bad Browsers," published in February 2001, has been cited as a turning point in the adoption of Cascading Style Sheets for their intended purpose of articulating layouts.
In 2012, he organized the workshop "Moving Naturalism Forward", which brought together scientists and philosophers to discuss issues associated with a naturalistic worldview.
Guests on the show included John Hodgman, Sarah Silverman, Neil deGrasse Tyson, Rufus Wainwright, and Michio Kaku.
Her new equipment by Nokia enabled her to lifecast and produce streaming video live without a computer connection.
Heather's Hole, in which Heather Anne Campbell reaches into "the deep, gaping maw that is her video game collection", and retrieves a lesser known title, gaming system or piece of gaming memorabilia to discuss.
Often these consisted of updates on past stories, or addresses to the listeners about the show itself.
Denson also serves as an advisory board member on the SXSW Accelerator, Google Launchpad, and the White House's Global Entrepreneurship Summit.
In July 2021, Friedberg announced that The Production Board raised $300 million from Alphabet, Baillie Gifford, Allen & Co., BlackRock, Koch Disruptive Technologies and Morgan Stanley's Counterpoint Global.
This causes the length of each episode to vary, sometimes considerably, from show to show, although most episodes run approximately two hours.
It was a Linux, Free Software and Open Source event intended to be fun, without the corporate agenda held by other commercial events.
Carroll is a vocal atheist who has debated with Christian apologists such as Dinesh D'Souza and William Lane Craig.
On March 5, 2008, Laporte confirmed on net@nite that The Lab with Leo Laporte had been canceled by Rogers Communications.
The checklist included at its introduction: bad guy with a theme song or sound, barfing, boobies, decapitations, stereotypes, urination/defecation, Kenobi archetype, animal/robot for comedy relief, and [a late addition], a cave that looks like a vagina.
The two podcast hosts have also written a book with Nils Parker entitled Stuff You Should Know: An Incomplete Compendium of Mostly Interesting Things.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
Before the expansion to new facilities in 2011, Laporte said TWiT earned US$1.5 million (equivalent to $2,150,000 in 2025) annually on a production cost of US$350,000 (equivalent to $501,000 in 2025).
He won several comedy competitions, and landed an appearance on USA's Up All Night with Gilbert Gottfried.
In reply to Dvorak's comments that Laporte was biased, Laporte told Dvorak "you won't ever have to worry about it again", insinuating that he never wanted Dvorak back on TWiT.
He has appeared on the History Channel's The Universe, Science Channel's Through the Wormhole with Morgan Freeman, Closer to Truth (broadcast on PBS), and Comedy Central's The Colbert Report.
In addition to audio, text transcriptions are published, along with Gibson distributing a low-bandwidth 16 kbit/s version of the show on his own for those with low-bandwidth sources such as satellite internet or dial-up.
With the help of management at KFI, Premiere Networks picked up the show for syndication, and it was announced on January 27, 2007, that it would roll out nationally.
History Titans of Nuclear was conceived by Bret Kugelmass, founder of the Energy Impact Center in Washington, D.C., in 2017.
In 2019, the podcast featured interviews with national politicians, including House Representative for Massachusetts Seth Moulton and Idaho Senator Mike Crapo.
Crossovers and appearances Rhysider has made appearances on a variety of other programs, the most notable being Snap Judgment and the Lit Hub/Podglomerate Storybound.
Metromile and other roles Friedberg founded the car insurance firm Metromile in 2011 and served as its chairman during its early years.
Binärgewitter (literally "binary thunderstorm") is a technology podcast that originated as a spin-off of the RadioTux Talk format around 2011.
Brownlee was a finalist for Best Podcaster at the 12th Shorty Awards in 2020 for his work on the show.
He had a sister named Karen, who died in 1992 in a car accident when Josh was 16 years old, and two brothers-in-law, one of whom is also named Josh.
A number of episodes of the parallel BBC radio documentary series 30 Animals That Made Us Smarter were included as bonuses in the podcast feed of early episodes of series 2.
Hosts and correspondents Travis View has written extensively for the Washington Post on the subject of QAnon.
It sounds like life." And unlike traditional journalism, in which the reader is given only access to the final article, not the interview, Abumrad added that Radiolab's process is more transparent.
Eliana Dockterman, writing for Time in April 2018, said, "[The hosts] add new depth to these Internet-famous fables with interviews, narrative arcs and, crucially, their fact-checking abilities.
On January 20, 2011, TWiT officially launched Triangulation, a new show with Merritt co-hosting with Leo Laporte and interviewing a notable figure in technology.
He currently serves on the board of the Girls Academic Leadership Academy, the first public girls' STEM school in the state of California.
The show has earned many industry awards for its "imaginative use of radio" including a National Academies Communication Award and two Peabody Awards.
The podcast won "Tech Podcast of the Year" as well as "Podcast of the Year" at the 2019 Adweek Podcast Awards.
The following year, Wood became a tech correspondent and backup host for the US public radio program Marketplace and its various spinoffs.
The first episode of the podcast was made available online on January 8, 2018 and featured Michael Shellenberger as the guest.
As such, Jesse Brown announced on May 1, 2009 that his podcast would be hosted and supported by the Government of Ontario's public broadcasting network, TVOntario.
In 2010, the project served as a media partner and moderator for an open-source programme at CeBIT in cooperation with LPI Central Europe, Univention and Linuxhotel.
In early 1999 Searls joined Christopher Locke, David Weinberger and Rick Levine in writing The Cluetrain Manifesto, an iconoclastic website that was followed in January 2000 by the book with the same title.
April 25, 2010: On This Week in Tech (TWiT) episode 245 as a guest with Becky Worley, and Shira Lazar.
In 2016, Zeldman's business association with Happy Cog ended, and he launched an independent design consultancy called Studio Zeldman.
He has also worked on the foundations of quantum mechanics, especially the many-worlds interpretation, including a derivation of the Born rule for probabilities.
Segments The show has several recurring featured segments, which include: What Are You Playing?, formerly 70 Seconds in Video Game Heaven, where the hosts and their guest report on what video games they have been playing during the past week.
In 2022, How I Built This signed a licensing deal with Wondery, with subsequent radio distribution remaining with NPR.
The site is written in the form of a tumblelog called The Linked List, a linklog with brief commentary, in between occasional longform articles that discuss Apple products and issues in related consumer technology.
TED Radio Hour is a weekly, hour-long radio program and podcast, produced as a co-production between TED (conference) and National Public Radio.
The program was formerly known as Call for Help when it was recorded in the US and Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
He also founded the design studios Happy Cog and studio.zeldman, and co-founded the A Book Apart imprint and the design conference An Event Apart.
Other work Zomorodi is the author of the books Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self and Camera Ready: How to Present Your Best Self and Ideas On Air and Online.
Its episodes made use of Creative Commons music until October 2010, when CBC management realized that Spark was available on some platforms considered to be commercial, violating use restrictions of most of the music available under the Creative Commons licenses.
In later episodes the question would be posed by the merchant from Resident Evil 4, voiced by Campbell.
Spark was produced in Toronto by Young and a team that consisted of Michelle Parise, Adam Killick, and Kent Hoffman.
John Gruber (born 1973) is a technology blogger, UI designer, and creator of the Markdown markup language.
Since episode 215 in October 2009, the show has been available weekly as both an audio and video download as well as on YouTube.
Formerly, it featured animated shorts, a This Day in History segment, and Josh Clark's series Don't Be Dumb.
In January 2022, the podcast changed formats to shift away from intentionally playing bad games, in part to improve the experience for guests and the hosts.
In 2006, LugRadio won the award for Best Marketing Campaign at the UK Linux and Open Source Awards in London and won the award for Best Linux Podcast in the Christmas 2007 edition of Linux Format magazine.
In September 2008, Revision3 started Revision3 Beta, a "talent-farming" sub-network of unofficial shows headed by Martin Sargent.
Retrieved March 17, 2016.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link) External links Official website Back to Work podcast You Look Nice Today podcast Kung Fu Grippe personal blog
Due to categorisation users can subscribe to the newsfeeds of topics they are interested to and load them directly to MP3 player.
In July 2016, Dvorak and co-host Adam Curry won the "Best Podcast" Podcast Award for No Agenda, in the News & Politics category.
In a post explaining the move, he cited a desire for more editorial freedom and to write for himself after almost two decades at a single publication.
She has appeared as a featured speaker at conferences worldwide, including South by Southwest (SXSW).
However the time and effort the TWiT Staff needed to encode, upload, and distribute alternate audio formats in the limited time between recording and release each Sunday evening was not justified by the number of people choosing to listen to them.
He also co-hosted CNET's 'The Real Deal' podcast with Tom Merritt, which dealt with consumer technology.
As Stefano Forenza says on his website "you know you're someone when you get cited twice in a single episode of LinuxOutlaws".
Previously, the show was released on Friday at the same time for paid members, and Sunday at 12:01 for everyone.
Designing with Web Standards reiterates many of the arguments made by the Web Standards Project to highlight the benefits of standards-compliant web design.
Search Engine's theme song is called "Ethiopia Hagere." It was written and performed in a collaborative effort between Ethiopian saxophonist Getatchew Mekurya and punk band The Ex.
Guest presenters on the show include Andy Piper, Anton Piatek, Dan Kermac, Emma Marshall, Joe Ressington, Joey Sneddon, Jon Spriggs, Laura Czajkowski, Paul Tansom and Stuart Langridge.
On January 4, 2015, Arment posted an article to Marco.org about Apple's declining software quality that unexpectedly went viral.
Searls has also been a blogger since October 1999, when he started blogging with help from his friend Dave Winer.
Merritt appeared in two early episodes of his Frame Rate co-host Brian Brushwood's Revision3 show Scam School.
TWiT.tv is a podcast network that broadcasts technology-focused podcasts, founded by broadcaster and author Leo Laporte in 2005, and run by his wife and company CEO Lisa Laporte.
She was the host of the WNYC podcast Note to Self, which explores humans' relationship with technology through conversations with listeners and experts.
His independent general discussion podcast with Roger Chang, East Meets West, was also on TWiT Live.
March 17, 2009 : On The Early Show, Natali Morris showed Chris Wragge the Dell Adamo and iPod Shuffle.
Ohalo Ohalo Genetics, a plant breeding company incubated by The Production Board in 2019, develops breeding systems and new crop varieties intended to raise yields while using fewer natural resources.
Martin was Director of Engineering for the Ubuntu Desktop team at Canonical and worked on desktop and devices before leaving the company in early 2021.
He was followed by Patrick Norton in August 2007, who worked at Ziff Davis as 'head of podcasts' and host of the IPTV show DL.TV.
Liv Agar has covered conspiracy theories focused on Canada, as well as topics relating to modern-day adolescent internet culture.
Darknet Diaries is an investigative podcast created by Jack Rhysider (), chronicling true stories about crackers, malware, botnets, cryptography, cryptocurrency, cybercrime, and Internet privacy, all subjects falling under the umbrella of "tales from the dark side of the Internet".
References External links Official ABC page Marc Fennell's Download This Show page Rae Johnston’s official website
Tips from the Top Floor is a podcast which presents tips and tricks about photography, mainly digital photography, in episodes normally ranging from 5 to 15 minutes in length and covering topics from image composition to post processing.
The show promises to develop into a worthy rival of Reply All and This American Life." In April 2020, The Irish Times included Endless Thread on its list of "50 of the Best Podcasts to Listen to Right Now".
The show's guests have included Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, filmmaker James Cameron, Anduril Industries co-founder Palmer Luckey, Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz, OpenAI co-founder and CEO Sam Altman, DoorDash co-founder Andy Fang, and Eddy Cue of Apple.
Mann coined and popularized the concept of "Inbox Zero", writing a series of articles in 2006 on 43 Folders, originally suggesting for an "Inbox DMZ".
Content As continued from All Things Digital, Recode focuses on technology and digital media news, particularly pertaining to the business of Silicon Valley.
Technology Business Programming Network (TBPN) is a live video and audio podcast focused on business and technology news hosted by John Coogan and Jordi Hays.
In 2016, she was an advisor to Arnold Schwarzenegger on the reality competition series The New Celebrity Apprentice.
He is a former co-host of Tech News Today on the TWiT.tv Network, and was previously an executive editor for CNET and developer and co-host of the daily podcast Buzz Out Loud.
The Tech Guy concluded in December 2022, with Rich DeMuro taking the time slot with his own program Rich on Tech.
Ubuntu Podcast was an Ubuntu Linux news and technology podcast formed by the Ubuntu UK Local Community Team.
In Season 2, TED Radio Hour was produced by Jeff Rogers, Brent Baughman, Meghan Keane, Neva Grant and Sanaz Meshkinpour with help from NPR's Portia Robertson Migas and Eric Nuzum, and TED's Chris Anderson, June Cohen, Deron Triff and Janet Lee.
Morris and her husband had initially relocated to Pennsylvania before leaving the country all together.
Mossberg saw the investment as an opportunity to implement new ways of covering the technology field, and planned to add six employees on technology policy and mobile beats.
On November 22, 2021, the show did a special episode discussing the importance of the COVID-19 vaccine.
In 2024 AgFunderNews reported that Ohalo had raised a little over $100 million, was developing programs in crops including potato, and planned to partner with seed companies on additional crops.
The pair met at Wolverhampton Linux User Group and it was agreed that Stuart Langridge and Stephen Parkes would complete the line-up.
The Atlantic included the episode "Shine on, You Crazy Goldman" on their list of "The 50 Best Podcast Episodes of 2015".
He attended Allegheny College in Meadville, Pennsylvania, and graduated in 2004 with a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science.
The show was canceled after the first season "due to poor ratings", although each episode is made available for purchase on iTunes and Google Play.
Mann was one of the hosts on the MacBreak video podcast, and a core host on the MacBreak Weekly audio podcast.
TPB partners with scientists, business leaders, and entrepreneurs to address challenges such as climate change.
After 17 years at The Atlantic, Thompson left his full-time role to write independently on Substack in June 2025.
On 11 August 2011, Jay Adelson (founder of Revision3) started a show responding to questions for entrepreneurial, company and business advice called "Ask Jay".
The process involved recordings made by each presenter on his own machine, as well as a backup analogue recording by Fabian.
Mann has also appeared as a guest on other podcasts, including the CBC radio show–podcast Spark, The Chronicle of Higher Education's ProfHacker, Scruffy Thinking, CMD+SPACE, and various episodes of Dan Benjamin's The Conversation.
Gunn's degrees include a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science from the University of San Francisco, a master's degree in computer science from Purdue University and a Doctor of Philosophy in mechanical engineering from Purdue.
Recognition and awards In 2012, iTunes Australia named Download This Show the best new podcast, and it has won Best Audio Program at the Australian IT Journalism Awards ("The Lizzies") many times.
In 2011, This Week in Tech was named "Best Technology Podcast", and TWiT Photo was named "Best New Technology Podcast" by iTunes Rewind.
The show won a silver award for "Best Radio Podcast supported by UK Radioplayer" at the 2017 British Podcast Awards.
The hosts and guests give their reviews of the game, and read contrary and often comedic reviews of the game found online.
In March 2006, he started a new show called CrankyGeeks, where he led a rotating panel of "cranky" tech gurus in discussions of technology news stories of the week.
Diggnation hosted live shows at CES, SXSW, Reno, Nevada, Macworld, San Francisco, E3, San Diego, Hollywood, London, St.
After five seasons, on 30 June 2008, LugRadio announced that they would end the show at their convention, LugRadio Live UK 2008.
Journalism Zeis graduated West Morris Mendham High School in 1997 and attended Fairleigh Dickinson University with a major in Computer Science.
They claim that the universe is infinitely old but never reaches thermodynamic equilibrium as entropy increases continuously without limit due to the decreasing matter and energy density attributable to recurrent cosmic inflation.
Media contact information is available on the Tech Nation website Academically, Bioentrepreneurship courses are throughout the university as they require the successful collaboration of multi-disciplinary expertise.
In October 2020, host Dallas Taylor was featured in "Sound and Silence," an episode of the TED Radio Hour, drawn from his TED Talk.
Laporte had been a midday, general-interest radio host until the increasing popularity of Rush Limbaugh, after which he created and co-hosted the tech talk radio show On Computers from January 1991 to July 1994.
Recently he started focusing on issues at the foundations of cosmology, statistical mechanics, quantum mechanics and complexity.
Sean Michael Carroll (born October 5, 1966) is an American theoretical physicist who specializes in quantum mechanics, cosmology, and the philosophy of science.
In 2016, the Mixcloud Online Radio Awards (MORA) nominated it as "Best Online Talk Show" in education.
In 2016, he delivered the Gifford Lectures on The Big Picture: On the Origins of Life, Meaning, and the Universe Itself at the University of Glasgow.
You don't need advertising to make them." In September 2018, Searls spoke at TedX Santa Barbara, giving a talk titled "The Story isn't the Whole Story: Journalism in the digital age is challenged by a business model of automated advertising that creates widespread distrust.
Before she began hosting Note to Self, Zomorodi was a television reporter for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
Carroll received an "Emperor Has No Clothes" award at the Freedom From Religion Foundation Annual National Convention in October 2014.
The podcast has covered topics such as the THX Deep Note, misophonia, the Voyager Golden Record, the Shure SM7 microphone, ASMR, and advertising jingles.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
In November 2019, Manoush Zomorodi, previously host of the WNYC podcast Note to Self, was named the show’s new host.
Nine months after an issue was published, it was made available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license for all to read without charge in both PDF and ePub formats.
The show current only has a modest live general viewership though it's is reported to be influential with Technology and Venture capital insiders.
In May 2013, one month after the sale of Instapaper, Arment announced he was selling The Magazine to Glenn Fleishman, its editor.
Zeis was the editorial director of High Yield content at Future until September 2024, working with brands such as Tom's Guide and TechRadar.
Philosophical and religious views Carroll, while raised as an Episcopalian, is an atheist, or as he calls it, a "poetic naturalist".
In June 2007, Gruber and Dan Benjamin began co-hosting an independent podcast featuring conversations and commentary on trends, mainly focusing on technology at thetalkshow.net.
Warren has interviewed many well-known members of the tech industry including Fred Wilson, venture capitalist and Jony Ive, Chief Design Officer at Apple Inc.
On October 22, 2012, Merritt announced that he would be moving to Los Angeles to accommodate his wife's new employment at YouTube, but would continue to present on the TWiT network over Skype.
Harford explained in a BBC interview in 2017 that his motivation for creating the show was "to paint a picture of economic change by telling the stories of the ideas, people, and tools that had far-reaching consequences".
After the second episode aired, accusations from former employees of a "near identical" environment at Gimlet were reported online.
At the end of 2015, "The Tech Guy" was number 10 on the Top 40 US Technology Podcasts, making it the third highest weekly TWiT.tv podcast.
He has been a columnist for Boardwatch, Forbes, Forbes.com, MacUser, MicroTimes, PC/Computing, Barron's Magazine, Smart Business, and The Vancouver Sun.
History The idea of a TED radio show was first proposed in 2011 by TED's head of content distribution Deron Triff to NPR Interim President and CEO Joyce Slocum.
Thomas Andrew Merritt (born June 28, 1970) is an American technology journalist, writer, and broadcaster best known as the host of several podcasts.
In the summer of 2006, Brown hosted another CBC Radio show called The Contrarians that investigated the potential virtues of unpopular ideas.
Carroll at IMDb Dark Matter, Dark Energy: The Dark Side of the Universe Archived April 30, 2021, at the Wayback Machine, lectures at The Teaching Company.
In August 2016, Warren had left Mashable to join Gizmodo "as senior technology writer, a role that will see her as a marquis [sic] voice in defining Gizmodo's point of view on the major stories of the day".
Overview The show's title refers to highest frequency that can be perceived within the human hearing range (without hearing loss).
Overview Every episode either focuses on a particular game or features general discussion about gaming.
Under Friedberg Ohalo promotes a platform it calls "Boosted Breeding", which uses gene editing and quantitative genomics to control inheritance during reproduction.
It is produced in English and hosted by Chris Marquardt, a photographer, sound professional, musician and media producer.
In November 2023 Friedberg became the company's full-time chief executive after helping found the venture.
The show initially took the same tone of discussion as podcast network Earwolf's How Did This Get Made?, a podcast celebrating bad movies, and was originally perceived as a spin-off.
In 2010, Zeldman expanded his publishing work beyond web magazines with the creation of the A Book Apart imprint.
June 30, 2014: On Marketing Mavericks (TWiT) episode 13 as a guest with Frank Eliason and Steve Faktor.
History Zomorodi has worked as a journalist for 20 years, and before joining WNYC, she reported for Reuters and the British Broadcasting Corporation.
VRM tools and methods also help individuals engage with government and other non-commercial organizations.
The book was published in November 2020 and covers a wide range of topics including history, psychology, pop culture, and science.
January 10, 2008: On G4TV's Best of CES 2008, Morris joined the G4 crew to talk about some of the best gadgets seen at CES this year.
Steven Cook, writing for the Council of Foreign Relations, noted that a tipping point is only obvious after the fact, and pointed to the counter-example of the 2009–2010 Iranian election protests.
23 October: Supporters of Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad threw their shoes at opposition leader Mehdi Karroubi as he visited Tehran during the 2009 Iranian election protests.
March 19, 2008 Thousands of anti-war protesters marched through Washington, D.C., on the fifth anniversary of the U.S.-led 2003 invasion of Iraq, some splattering red paint on government offices and scuffling with police.
The comic artist Brad Neely's reinterpretation of Harry Potter, Wizard People, took Warner Bros.' first Harry Potter film, The Sorcerer's Stone, and substituted the original soundtrack with a narration that casts the hero as a Nietzschean superman.
The Iraqi Intifada (Arabic: انتفاضة العراق) was a series of national strikes and violent protests against the ruling Hashemite monarchy and the Anglo-Iraqi Treaty.
After World War I broke out in 1914, the mainstream suffragette movement suspended its protests in order to focus on the war effort.
See also Affirmative action in the United States Reverse discrimination Whites Only Scholarship White privilege White backlash == References ==
In other countries, legal observers are associated with such groups as Liberty (UK), Green and Black Cross (UK), the Scottish Community & Activist Legal Project (SCALP) (Scotland), and others.
The fire, which was subsequently called the Yongsan Disaster (Korean: 용산 참사; Hanja: 龍山慘事; RR: yongsan chamsa) or Yongsan Tragedy, caused six deaths and injured 23 people.
The woman in the photograph was revealed to be Danielsson by the press in 2014, in the midst of debates over the installation of a statue as a public memorial of the confrontation.
Die-ins are actions that have been used by a variety of protest groups on topics such as animal rights, anti-war, against traffic violence, human rights, AIDS, gun control, racism, abortion, and environmental issues.
This is what's needed if we’re going to turn things—these huge crises facing the planet—around." The film features figures including bell hooks, Naomi Klein, Bill McKibben, Judy Rebick and Rebecca Solnit.
It was reported that as the kiosk owners had lease contracts and had made no breaches, the municipality had reached an agreement with them on the conditions of the dismantling - specifically, an agreement to compensate the dismantled kiosks by providing new ones on a new location.
September 30 – March for Racial Justice; March for Black Women October 7 – National Popular Vote March for 2020 2018 January 19 – March for Life 2018 - The annual March for Life protest through Washington, D.C., in dissent of the decision made in the 1973 Supreme Court case Roe v.
The procedures, processes and ground rules were discussed and agreed upon collectively by the Assembly during their first meeting on 6 August 2011 based on a Consensus decision-making process.
Walkouts have often been staged against the presence of a speaker or the content of an in-progress speech at a meeting.
Christian chose November 5 because of its association with Guy Fawkes, who tried to blow up the British House of Lords and bring Catholic rule back to the United Kingdom, but was captured on that date in 1605.
However, the mere presence of a counter-protest is not always sufficient to shift public attitudes; the specific strategy plays a decisive role.
Ridicule is a micro-level tactic involving the mocking or trivializing of the opposing group to diminish their standing.
This prohibition applies only if there are disturbances of public order at demonstrations, or if there is an immediate danger of such disturbances.
Death Al-Hawaiti was shot dead by Saudi security forces after he refused to hand over his property for the mega project on the Red Sea.
Aftermath In the days following the incident, the Harakat Tahrir's founder Muhammad Bassiri and other Harakat Tahrir activists were hunted down by Spanish security forces.
As noted by one observer, Brum wished to hand over "People's Lands," which consisted of the purchase by the State of properties "to transfer them to the families of farmers and rural workers in general, under advantageous conditions for their exploitation." At the time newspapers reported that “Dr.
On March 3, 2020, a group of Primera Línea was rounded up and detained by Carabineros enforcing the newly drafted law.
Arrests The day after the incident, multiple Brimob officers fired their weapons towards the sky in front of Abepura's military base, injuring three civilians.
Examples United States In the United States, noise demonstrations have been used outside police departments and prisons, as well as outside events such as political rallies or campaign events.
These demonstrations against the war were mainly organized by anti-war organizations, many of whom had been formed in opposition to the invasion of Afghanistan.
Those gathered at Mons Sacer demanded the restoration of both the plebeian tribunes and the right to appeal, as they had been suspended during the term of the decemviri.
As of 14 February, her family had decided to take her off life support, but had not finalised the timing.
By 10:30 in the evening, two men and a woman were suspected of being recognized in plain clothes and were stopped at the entrance of the shopping mall near Lung Poon Court.
Previously, an attack in 2009, which killed five UN workers, led to temporary relocation of workers to Dubai.
The proliferation of such image generation algorithms coincided with the release of GPT-3 and development of GPT-4, advanced large language models which produce highly convincing text.
(The gate to the plaza is not often closed, except during a typhoon strike.) Three people were arrested for assaulting security guards.
Secondary school students, families with children, and elderly people had turned up to join the march.
After the breakup of the group in the park and elsewhere, the Occupy movement has focused on "more intellectual, less visible projects, like Occupy Farms, fighting debt and theorizing on banking".
State Department that said that Chinese and Hong Kong officials had systematically damaged Hong Kong's democratic system in the past year and caused the deterioration of Hong Kong's business environment.
She assisted in organizing and being hailed as the de facto spokesperson by Canadian media for the Occupy movement protest known as Occupy Vancouver in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada and holds a B.A.
Buycott.com also queried consumer activists for scanned product information when the database was missing product descriptions or other information.
Disruptive picketing Disruptive picketing covers a wide variety of pickets: Obstructive picketing which significantly physically narrows or stalls the flow of persons, goods or services into and out of the business.
It was despite too high injury rates related to lifting and too high mortality rates due to working with heavy, sharp equipment.
Türkan Feyzullah (Bulgarian: Тюркян Фейзула, romanized: Tyurkyan Feyzula) was a young Turkish child who died when Bulgarian security forces opened fire on a group of people protesting against the forceful assimilation policies of the time.
Welfare subsidies come for example under the forms of Planes Trabajar, which consist in 20 hours per week "contracts" used by public institutions and paid 150 pesos (less than US$50) a month.
In the 1970s, the National Farmers Organization started working with processors and the food and feed industry to secure supply contracts in all the commodities they represented.
McNulty, whose exhortations to the crowd were enough to temporarily quell or distract that mob, while sheriff's deputies removed the constable and the Dalzells from the rear of the second house and placed them in a transport coach.
In 2016 Asplund was included on the BBC's 100 Women list, alongside Alicia Keys, Ellinah Wamukoya and Nadiya Hussain.
So, people who criticize the piqueteros may agree with the need to provide relief for the poor and unemployed, but disagree on the form of the demands.
Notable boycotts Although the term itself was not coined until 1880, the practice dates back to at least the 1790s, when supporters of the British abolitionists led and supported the free produce movement.
The Spanish authorities called in the Spanish Legion who opened fire on the demonstrators, killing at least eleven people.
A second decree issued the following year entrusted the National Women's Council with the patronage of that shelter and the administration of the "Quinta de Menores;" a new service for the same street minors.
Shula Pesach (Tnuva's head economist) conducted a study, and concluded that Tnuva could increase prices by at least 15% without harming public demand, although Dr.
Meanwhile, plebeian farmers, many of whom had fought in the war, found difficulty in repaying debts incurred with these wealthy patricians.
Protesters opposed the Trump administration and its billionaire backers including Elon Musk, accusing the administration of rolling back labor rights and targeting immigrants.
Prayer services for Mya were held at the Mandalay University of Foreign Languages and Yangon City Hall on 14 February.
Ho was acquitted of resisting three other police officers who had twice pepper-sprayed her, with Principal Magistrate Ada Yim Shun-yee saying that this had been inappropriate use of force.
In August 2001 he joined participants for a roving exploration of usable food found in Tribeca dumpsters; they were accompanied by a TV crew from PBS's Life 360.
His work made me spend unnecessary money to get access to the website that is supposed to be free...
In January 2023, the House of Lords overturned plans to increase police powers to allow them to restrict protests by 254 votes to 240 and added a clause restricting protests within 150 metres of an abortion clinic.
1977: 1977 Pakistan uprising, movement against Zulfikar Ali Bhutto protests against the dictatorship of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Most organized consumer boycotts today are focused on long-term change of buying habits, and so fit into part of a larger political program, with many techniques that require a longer structural commitment, e.g.
In professional sports in the United States and Canada, the National Football League, Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, and the National Hockey League have all experienced lockouts.
Mahatma Gandhi's methods, which he called satyagraha, did not involve confrontation and could be described as "removal of support" without breaking laws besides those explicitly targeted.
One of Greenpeace's tactics is to install banners in trees or at symbolic places like offices, statues, nuclear power plants.
As zaps and other activism began opening doors for nascent gay organizations like NGTF and the Gay Media Task Force, these groups became more invested in negotiating with the people within the mainstream power structures rather than in maintaining a tactic they saw as being of the outsider.
Starting in the morning, citizens outside Sogo Department Store in Causeway Bay offered flowers to mourn.
on the evening of 8 March over 70 people took part in a spontaneous march from Dame Street to a nearby Garda station on Pearse Street in protest of the removal of the camp.
A large number of plainclothes and riot police are on alert near the different exits of Causeway Bay Station.
In October 2025, several protesters pleaded guilty to federal charges of providing material support to terrorism.
Police noted that Ramos was a relative of a known figure inside the underworld known as "El Fayo." Career Elidio Ramos Zárate worked for El Sur for 10 years as a crime journalist before he was killed.
Tactics Direct action protestors may perform activities such as: Some protestors dress in black bloc, wearing black clothing and face coverings to obscure their identities.
At 1:22 am on the 20th, the curtain wall of an adjacent commercial building caught fire after being hit by a Molotov cocktail thrown by protesters.
The large number of people who lost consciousness because of heat syncope overwhelmed emergency medical technicians.
Anti-fascist collectives placed plaques on up to four occasions at the Metro stations where Carlos Palomino had died, but they were always vandalised.
The first National Day of Mourning demonstration was held in 1970 after Frank "Wamsutta" James's speaking invitation was rescinded from a Massachusetts Thanksgiving Day celebration commemorating the 350th anniversary of the landing of the Mayflower.
References External links Occupy Faith, United States Occupy Faith, United States - 2011 National Gathering (video) Occupy Faith UK Archived 2020-02-29 at the Wayback Machine, United Kingdom
In 2020, a noise demonstration was held outside the White House to disrupt a speech by President Donald Trump.
When she was sentenced, Robinson had to be carried into the courtroom on a stretcher because she refused to walk.
On 16 November 2023, Russian artist Aleksandra Skochilenko was sentenced to seven years of imprisonment for replacing supermarket price tags with antiwar slogans in 2022.
Bibliography Let Me Stand Alone, collected writings and memoirs of Rachel Corrie published in January 2008 by W.
Later, when the burns become severe, nerves are burnt and the self-immolator loses sensation at the burnt areas.
During marches and press statements in front of the Council of Europe and the ECtHR, calls were renewed for forcing Turkey to implement ECtHR judgments and for the release of political prisoners.
Their actions led to peace in Liberia after a 14‑year civil war and the election of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, country's first female head of state.
Some few of the mob did still chase and jump onto the sides of the coach as it swiftly fled the scene, but were clubbed off by the constables.
See also Doxing Online shaming Notes External links Publicly exposing abusers through targeted demonstrations @ New Tactics in Human Rights.
Some of the 50 protesters in Olympia had signs reading "delete the port" and broke windows in the Downtown Historic District.
James Park Almost two weeks after the protest began, occupiers still maintained their unlawful presence in St.
March: Reference to moving from one location to another; to distinguish from rotating or walking in a circle with picket signs (which is a picket).
The short-term demands called on the state, including the police and the judiciary, to properly investigate and prosecute the guilty in five specific cases which took place immediately prior to the movement’s start.
On hearing the shotgun's report, large portions of the celebrants advanced down the mountain to find Van Houghton shot dead.
Al-Huwaiti's funeral was held near the village of al-Khoraibah and was well attended despite the presence of Saudi security forces.
According to an official report by the DR Congo government, 36 people had been killed and 170 wounded during the protests by August.
Police fired a tear gas shell into Daudi's stomach at close range.Photos of fragments of Daudi's blown-up body hit the Internet less than one hour after the incident.
Deceptive détournements are when already significant elements such as a major political or philosophical text, great artwork or work of literature take on new meanings or scope by being placed in a new context.
If he'd stopped at this point, he may have only broken her legs, but he continued forward, which pulled her underneath the bulldozer.
The pair of white vertical banners were hung inside the legislative council building, and they read 「林鄭禍港殃民 月娥遺臭萬年」.
Public opinion and media coverage The Strasbourg Justice Meetings have been covered in national and international media due to their annual organization and participation from different countries.
Involved in political activism since adolescence, she collaborates with various movements around the world.
See also Art of the Umbrella Movement Umbrella Movement 2019–2020 Hong Kong protests Lion Rock Alain Robert (climber) Banner drop Blank paper protest == References ==
Demonstrators marched to the ECtHR building with banners and slogans reading “ECtHR, end injustice in Turkey” and “Delayed justice is not justice,” and submitted letters to the Council of Europe and the ECtHR.
October 16 – The Right2Know March for Genetically Engineered Foods (GMO) to be labeled in the United States.
Conflict with Saudi government In April 2020, Al-Hawaiti and other residents were being pressured by the Saudi government to give up their properties and accept financial compensation for a proposed mega new city named Neom.
United States film maker Michael Moore attempted to get a potted ficus tree onto the ballot as a candidate for United States Representative in 2000.
However, JAM74, a coalition of community, environmental and sustainable transport groups, believed the scheme will be detrimental.
It is used as a form of civil disobedience and nonviolent resistance that encourages voicing out different opinions through certain acts such as not showing support to a certain product, attending mass parade, having symbolism, and educating and encouraging other people to join the protest.
In addition, a member of the group will begin a 12-day hunger strike to protest against the detainment.
Killing On 12 November 1991, Kamal was among those escorting the funeral procession of a teenager who had been killed by Indonesian police several days earlier.
Peasants suffered from limited funding and lacked the training and organisational capabilities of professional armies.
Response of chain stores and dairies The Israeli retail chain stores reported that sales dropped dramatically following the cottage protest and as a result several retail chains announced that they would significantly reduce the retail price of cottage cheese and cream cheese.
The 2017 May Day protests were a series of protests that took place on May Day (May 1, 2017) over worker and immigrant rights, throughout the United States and around the world.
Aftermath Some protesters later reportedly crossed over to Papua New Guinea in order to evade capture.
This ended due to a temporary restraining order issued by US Federal Judge Stephenson of the US District Court for Southern Iowa.
The petition also consisted of late artists such as Anita Mui and Leslie Cheung, with several netizens believing that the petition consisted of fake signatures.
The Court felt that the limited financial and human resources of labour unions would prevent the unchecked spread of picketing beyond the primary parties, with limited resources they felt it was unlikely the union would picket a location which has no possible impact on their labour dispute.
The specific focus of some Take Back the Night events on sexual assaults from strangers and the lack of focus on date rape, child sexual abuse, parental incest, and other such forms of victimization has attracted criticism from a broad group of commentators such as Megan Greenwell of Good Magazine.
A convergence center is a central place for information and meeting to serve participants during large and manifold protest or other alternative activities at summits.
2010s In 2010, a paperback book was thrown at President Barack Obama by the book's author hoping that the president would read it.
The group was pinned down by gunfire and had to leave Ortega and others wounded unattended for several minutes.
1972 New York City An early version of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 was vetoed by President Richard Nixon in October 1972.
A 1964 incident brought negative attention when two members were crushed under the rear wheels of a cattle truck.
Détournement is similar to satirical parody, but employs more direct reuse or faithful mimicry of the original works rather than constructing a new work which merely alludes strongly to the original.
This started a series of ever larger and angrier demonstrations all around Syria through March and April, with security forces firing on demonstrators resulting in hundreds of deaths.
They believe there is a climate of rising intolerance in the country under the present central government (NDA Alliance).
During the 2013–2014 Bulgarian protests various accusations were made against groups of protesters and counter-protests being paid.
Nursey album, or the Collections of Photographs of Old Congress Party: KL Nursey, is a compilation of documentary photographs captured by an anonymous person.
A loyalty shift in the military toward the opposition was the second most likely outcome, though an all-out coup occurred in only six of the forty protest events analyzed in the study.
Ten months later, a group of protesters dressed in carnival outfits and again calling themselves the Pink and Silver bloc, or Pink Fairies, used the term "tactical frivolity" to describe their own methods when protesting at the 27th G8 summit in Genoa.
1997: Lawyers' movement protests against the government's attempts to remove the Chief Justice of Pakistan.
Abdul Rahman, Vairamuthu, Tamilanban, Muhammed Metha, Melanmai Ponnusamy, Puviarasu, Nanjil Nadan, S.
In addition to Gandhi, various others used the hunger strike option during the Indian independence movement, including Jatin Das, who fasted to death, and Bhagat Singh and Batukeshwar Dutt in 1929.
When protests are part of a systematic and peaceful nonviolent campaign to achieve a particular objective, and involve the use of pressure as well as persuasion, they go beyond mere protest and may be better described as civil resistance or nonviolent resistance.
On 4 June 2020, the National Anthem Bill passed its third reading, with 41 legislators in favor of it and 1 against.
Though there were indications in early September 2014 that the protest law would be amended, this ultimately did not happen.
Matthew being the largest of locations mobilized for the effort demonstrated many of the Occupy Mutual Aid values and projects side by side that were once on display at Zuccotti Park in 2011.
She co-authored They Can't Represent Us!: Reinventing Democracy from Greece to Occupy (Verso Books, 2014) and co-edited, with Colectiva Sembrar, Pandemic Solidarity: Mutual Aid during the COVID 19 Crisis (Pluto Press, 2020).
See also 100 Women (BBC) The Woman with the Handbag External links Article in Swedish evening paper Expressen, with the above mentioned photograph of Asplund == References ==
Description Mooning of the Mount Washington Cog Railway trains is most commonly done by thru-hikers, as they pass by on the Appalachian Trail.
In 1931, news of the growing Indian independence movement reached Samoa, partially inspiring the Mau movement.
A protester said that the topics discussed in the summit are not those that any young person would be interested in.
Paid protesters or professional protesters are people who participate in public outrage or objection in exchange for payment.
The investigation revealed that the bullet was shot from a distance of 100 feet and struck Nawaz in the shoulder before traveling to his chest.
Inquiry In September 2009 an inquest was held surrounding Hemsworth's death, Hemsworth’s wife Colette showed photographs of John shortly after his beating.
In early 1936, a series of smaller, brief sit-down strikes from at Firestone, Goodyear, and Goodrich from 28 January through 14 February presaged a larger conflict.
It was a battle where the Shia Amal Movement and the Druze Progressive Socialist Party decisively defeated the Lebanese army and the Multinational Force present in Lebanon that supported it.
Over a decade passed before those responsible for the murders committed under the regime of Jorge Rafael Videla were brought to trial for their alleged crimes.
During the autumn of 2007, eight hikers were arrested and were to be charged in a federal court, as the act took place in a National Forest.
The three UN staff workers who were killed were Swedish human rights officer Joakim Dungel, Romanian political affairs officer Filaret Motco, and military advisor and Royal Norwegian Air Force officer Lt.
Hong Kong has always been treated as its own independent region and has always been eligible since the program began in 1995, but China has never been eligible from the start.
Pepsi successfully applied for an interlocutory injunction to prevent employees from picketing at the secondary locations.
The opposition distanced itself from the guarimbas, Coordinadora Democrática, though opposition officials controlling certain areas refused to disperse demonstrations.
Political protest Regarding self-immolation as a form of political protest, the 14th Dalai Lama said in 2013 and 2015: I think the self-burning itself [is a] practice of non-violence.
In the states of Queensland and Western Australia mining is a large industry that is often met with protests and public demonstration.
Tens of thousands of people signed manifestos that were published in newspapers, including prominent figures in politics, culture, journalism and trade unionism, and even a member of the church.
She is perhaps most remembered for her methods of nonviolent resistance, which were deployed in sit-ins and other pro-integration demonstrations throughout the latter part of the Civil Rights Movement.
Protests expanded from major road-blocking pickets, to blockades of important streets in, or just outside, cities, as well as bridges and accesses to economically critical spots (for example, directly in front of major stores and supermarkets).
Mondelez asked the worker's unions to take pay cuts to make up the $46 million difference between production in the US and Mexico.
External links Official website Why The #Occupy Movement Is An Environmental Movement November 4, 2011 TreeHugger
The failed assassination attempt prompted Israeli officials to bar access to the Temple Mount — a 14-year first — after security assessments were made.
She has reported on and campaigned against human trafficking and violations committed by global resource corporations.
In December 2007 the inquiry was adjourned for the fourth time at the request of the Highways Agency who requested time to adjust their correct their traffic modelling, the inspector commented that it was the fifth iteration of the traffic model since the original announcement in February 2006.
In 1913 the Prisoners (Temporary Discharge for Ill Health) Act 1913 (nicknamed the "Cat and Mouse Act") changed policy.
It was partly inspired by Missouri congressman Todd Akin's "legitimate rape" and pregnancy comments.
Notably, the first formal, nationwide act of the Nazi government against German Jews was a national embargo of Jewish businesses on April 1, 1933.
The latest social media posts on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter were all also before the end of 2016.
The July massacre, which took place during the July uprising in Bangladesh, resulted in significant casualties, including protesters, opposition members, and civilians.
However, this protest coincided with opening of the autumn session of the parliament and concerned the slow pace of recovery from the Icelandic financial crisis.
Kwai Tsing District Councillor Leung Kam-wai argued that it was unreasonable for the police to arrest the protesters and that their behavior with by passers was unprofessional.
A non partisan group known as The Concerned Ghanaians for Responsible Governance is said to have organised the protest to ask government to solve corruption, infrastructure decay, worsening economy, the deteriorating economic conditions in the country, among other things.
Facing resistance from administration and police, the group established an encampment in Harvard Yard after a march on November 9, 2011.
During the visit of Tamim al-Thani to London in 2018, a paid protest took place outside Downing Street.
After World War II, the land was not returned to the First Nation, Camp Ipperwash was used for training cadets until 1995.
The United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) asked the activists to leave the buffer zone on 14 January 2012 claiming that the occupation did not meet United Nations' regulation for activities in the buffer zone, but it did not employ any forceful methods for the evacuation of the area.
During the eviction, at around 7:20 AM, a fire started in a temporary structure on the rooftop, engulfing the rooftop within minutes according to witnesses.
In July 2017, Maria Victoria Barros, a member of the state assembly in Paraná and daughter of Ricardo Barros, Health Minister during Michel Temer's government, had eggs thrown at her during her wedding as she left the church.
We refuse to accept the artificially high levels of unemployment and reduced working conditions which have been forced upon us by the Architects of Globalisation.
Pre-2023 2023 2024 2025 2026 See also Gaza war protests Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Lists of pro-Palestinian protests == References ==
Her refusal to pay taxes caused her to be sentenced to a year of imprisonment, but she used the process as an opportunity to engage in nonviolent protest.
Still, the practice continues to occur; for example, some Teamsters contracts often protect members from disciplinary action if a member refuses to cross a picket line.
Moazzem Hossain was a Pakistan Navy Lieutenant Commander and an accused in the Agartala Conspiracy Case.
All three MPs cited their experience in Nonviolent civil disobedience in their contributions to the Second Reading debate.
South Korea 8,000 workers and students participated in a rally in a park in Seoul, calling for an end to layoffs and wage cuts.
In particular, Krugman cited a 2005 Congressional Budget Office report indicating that between 1979 and 2005 the inflation-adjusted income for the middle of the income distribution rose 21%, while for the top 0.1% it rose by 400%.
So as part of their strike, the employees picketed at retail stores that sold Pepsi products and the homes of Pepsi's management.
The app advised them about purchasing from corporate entities - and their affiliates - that endorse policies which conflict with those campaigns.
Safaa started receiving threats to discourage him from participating in demonstrations and civil protests.
The Véry bombing became the first deadly attack of the Ère des attentats, killing two people and wounding at least one.
Overall, the occurrence is seen as the most violent of a series of similar disorders that took place throughout the U.S.
Spain In Spain, since November 2011 there is also a campaign named A-pagón: No pagues centrales nucleares y de carbón (A-pagón: Don't pay for nuclear and coal-fired power stations) related to the avoiding of the augmentative term "pagón" which could be translated as "big payer".
On 1 March 2022, Russian state media censorship agency Roskomnadzor threatened to block Wikipedia over the Russian Wikipedia article on Russia's invasion of Ukraine (Russian: Вторжение России на Украину (2022)).
Photographs of his self-immolation circulated around the world, drawing attention to the policies of the Diệm government.
In 2018, black ink was thrown onto the face of Pakistan's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Khawaja Asif.
Sidney Fine cites the protest form as being echoed and replicated in both the lunch counter sit-ins of the African American civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s, and in the university occupations of the 1960s.
Demonstrations at Mexican consulates On October 30, more than 200 protesters convened outside the Mexican consulate in New York City to deplore the killing of Will and others and to demand an end to the violence.
In the decades that followed World War II, there was much less unemployment in the UK and throughout the industrialized world, due in part to the Keynesian Revolution.
Violation of the ban entails, according to § 19a.b of the Law, imprisonment up to six months, repeated offenses one year or a fine.
Effectiveness While radical activism has been effective as part of the civil rights movement, forceful or violent environmental sabotage (FVES) can have a "negative impact on voter attitudes toward all environmental organizations", though that effect is contingent on the organizations' prior record.
The February 6 Intifada or February 6 uprising in West Beirut took place on 6 February 1984 during the Lebanese Civil War.
The Chicago factory was considered critical to Mondelez's success because of the unique workforce and strategic Midwest location.
In the UK, "It is important to understand that there is no right to strike in UK law." Employees who strike risk dismissal, unless it is an official strike (one called or endorsed by their union) in which case they are protected from unlawful dismissal, and cannot be fired for at least 12 weeks.
At the climax of the protests in June 1960, hundreds of thousands of protestors surrounded Japan's National Diet building in Tokyo on nearly a daily basis, and large protests took place in other cities and towns all across Japan.
Pre-2023 2023 2024 2025 2026 See also Gaza war protests Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Lists of pro-Palestinian protests Notes == References ==
Reportedly 500 members from the Irish Women Workers' Union attended the funeral and the union used the occasion as a show of strength.
Wouldn't be prudent." Several events have become well known for drawing high-powered guests, including the events hosted by the Pennsylvania Manufacturers' Association.
The 2024 CPAC Brazil featured Jair Bolsonaro, Eduardo Bolsonaro, Argentinian President Javier Milei, Chilean Republican Party leader José Antonio Kast and Salvadoran Justice and Public Security Minister Gustavo Villatoro.
In 1876, Hancock again drew a considerable following, but never finished higher than third place at that year's convention.
Sneevilet briefed congress regarding the inquiries by the Comintern related to the cooperation between the CCP and Kuomintang.
Many IWSA members, including German leaders Anita Augspurg and Lida Gustava Heymann, echoed the need for a conference and stressed that it should be autonomous so as not to damage the women's movement objectives.
The Awami League activists were unhappy with the decision of Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, leader of Awami League and Prime Minister of Pakistan, to support Pakistan joining the United States backed Central Treaty Organization and Southeast Asia Treaty Organization.
Within the framework of these theoretical oppositions, and in response to the reformism of the CNT in the late 1920s, the first anarchist federation of the Synthesis line was born: the Iberian Anarchist Federation (FAI), founded in 1927.
The Lausanne Congress of 1867 was the 2nd General Congress of the International Workingmen's Association (IWA).
It tended to be more outspoken in its denunciations of colonialism than the Conference of Independent African States, a contemporary organisation which, being composed of heads of state, was relatively constrained by diplomatic caution.
Paris, 1849 One year after Brussels, the Peace Congress met in Paris from 22 to 24 August 1849, with Victor Hugo as president The proceedings were published by Charles Gilpin.
The general principle of the "Union of the Left" was adopted, but the alliance with centrist parties was tolerated in some local assemblies.
Since Malatesta established groups there decades earlier, the anarchist movement developed significantly; so much so that in 1968, it was estimated that up to 90% of the population of the city and its surrounding region were anarchists.
With the support of President Andrew Jackson, Van Buren won the presidential nomination unanimously.
The ICW received several proposals but unanimously agreed that the Wisconsin Plan was the most plausible method.
The Regional Conflicts Task Force itself organized the Inter-Tajik Dialogue with participants from both sides of the conflict in an effort to see whether the Sustained Dialogue framework could be used to design a peace process.
Multinational expansion Efforts to expand production beyond the US included France and Sweden's plans to double ammunition and explosives capacity by 2025, and increase powder capacity by 10 times by 2026.
Representatives External resources The General Agreement signed in Addis Ababa on 8 January 1993 Addis Ababa Agreement concluded at the first session of the Conference on National Reconciliation in Somalia, 27 March 1993
Benn told the conference delegates that the anti-war movement which is calling for troops to be withdrawn from Iraq is the biggest he had seen in this lifetime.
Russian writer Ilya Ehrenburg then gave a conciliatory speech on behalf of the Soviet delegation, and Borejsza convinced almost everyone to remain at the Congress.
The Oslo Symposium is a biennial Norwegian Christian conservative conference, first arranged in 2011.
The ticket was victorious in the general election, defeating the Republican nominees, President Benjamin Harrison and his running mate, Whitelaw Reid.
Though the conference did not resolve the practicalities of seizing power in South Africa, Tambo’s stirring words convinced members that white rule could be defeated, revitalising the ANC’s drive and political momentum.
Gray's candidacy was weakened by his prior opposition to Cleveland, his past as a Republican, and the belief that Cleveland would carry Indiana in the election no matter what.
However, at the time, the Rahanweyn Resistance Army (RRA) was still hotly contending with other factions, including warlord Adan Madobe-Habsade, who captured Baidoa.
Although the plans were successful in 1950-51, no work was done for the development of the world constitution.
The Party National Congress examined and adopted the amendment to the Constitution of the Chinese Communist Party proposed by the 15th CCP Central Committee, and decided to come into force as from the date of its adoption.
On the first ballot, Cass had a large lead with 125 of the 254 delegate votes cast, with Buchanan and Woodbury receiving 55 and 53 votes respectively.
On 15 January 2020, the Parliament adopted a resolution setting out its vision for the Conference with 494 votes for, 147 against and 49 abstentions.
Elections for the delegates of the 20th Chinese Communist Party National Congress started in November 2021, as well as receiving and amending party documents, with the CCP Central Committee determining the Congress would have 2,300 delegates to be elected by 38 electoral units across China.
The Congress eventually led to the formation of the Reorganized National Government of the Republic of China, a puppet state of Japan under Wang's leadership.
Conclusions of the Congress The Congress adopted three resolutions, each prepared by a Commission: a Political Resolution, an Economic and Social Resolution, and a Cultural Resolution.
In it, they pledged to work for "constitutional doctrines and traditions," to oppose centralization, to favor "honest money consisting of gold and silver", a "tariff for revenue only", and to put an end to Chinese immigration.
This runs contrary to the fact that Puerto Rico has been a part of the United States since 1898, Puerto Ricans were granted citizenship in 1917, and the territory was extended birthright citizenship in 1940, meaning that Guilfoyle's mother was a United States citizen by birth.
The 10th National Congress of the Kuomintang (Chinese: 中國國民黨第十次全國代表大会) was the tenth national congress of the Kuomintang, held between 29 March to 9 April, 1969 in Chung-Shan Building, Beitou District, Taipei, Nationalist China.
The meetings are at ministerial and official level and are held alternately in the Netherlands and Turkey.
Hendricks had run unsuccessfully as the Democratic nominee for vice-president in 1876, but had won the office when he ran again with Cleveland in 1884.
2024 conference The 2024 conference, held at the Claridge event space in Brussels, made headlines for being shut down by the Belgian police on April 16 following an order by district Mayor Emir Kir.
Anarchists such as Jean Grave disliked political involvement of any type, while Brousse was suspicious of Guesde's Marxist authoritarianism and thought the nationalization program would lead to a socialist dictatorship.
It was a project of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), founded in 1909.
The dialogue also provided a platform for political parties from all over the world to discuss and exchange ideas on an equal footing.
As of August 2020, ten ethnic armed organizations have signed the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA).
According to the Council of Atlantic Premiers, the meeting is meant to "advance the interests" of the states and provinces as well as to encourage "cooperation" built on the "historic ties" between them.
Each year, the Gold Medal recipient selects a Pennsylvania charity of their choice, which receives a donation from the Society.
Finances for the fiscal year ending 31 December 2022 (the latest available) consist of: revenue of $24,429,473 expenses of $26,653,399; and donations of $24,448,17.
Some party leaders asked William Allen to enter the contest as a compromise candidate, but he refused to run for the presidency.
This type of amendment, which has now fallen into disuse, is a legal fiction and is deemed by Erskine May: Parliamentary Practice as equivalent to a motion not granting the Bill a second reading at all.
Second ballot Art Oliver defeated Steve Kubby on the second ballot, securing the Libertarian Party nomination for Vice President.
The Anglo-Irish Treaty was signed in London on 6 December 1921 and Dáil Éireann voted to approve the treaty on 7 January 1922, following a debate through late December 1921 and into January 1922.
With no reasoned amendment, the precise reasons for the bill's rejection may be inferred by reviewing the transcript in Hansard, but are not formally recorded in the Journal of the House of Commons.
The new PSC was filled almost completely with people close to Xi, with four out of the seven members of the previous PSC including Premier Li Keqiang and CPPCC Chairman Wang Yang stepping down.
While the European Parliament does represent citizens from different EU member states, it is not a global or international parliament in the sense of representing countries from all over the world.
Due to failing health, he was under doctor's orders not to travel, but addressed the convention by telephone.
During his speech, Fuentes endorsed and expanded upon a CPAC speech in which Daily Wire host Michael Knowles called to "eradicate transgenderism" by adding that Satanism, feminism, liberalism, and Judaism should similarly be eradicated.
For four years, from 1992 to 1995, the ICS worked on identifying "the true causes of the capitalist restoration in Soviet Union" and in Eastern Europe and to draw lessons from it for the future.
Bush, who ended his 2003 speech with a reference to Dana Carvey's impression of him by saying, "Not gonna do it.
2002 Somali Reconciliation Conference The 2002 Somali Reconciliation Conference held in Eldoret, Kenya, this conference was attended by most TFG supporters.
Most of the countries present, including the United States, United Kingdom, Russia, France, China and Persia, favoured a process for binding international arbitration, but the provision was vetoed by a few countries, led by Germany.
The 2013 and 2014 conferences both saw the same two candidates in the top two slots for the presidential straw poll for the first time ever, with Texas senator Ted Cruz and former neurosurgeon Dr.
He also attended other important events such as the opening ceremony, plenary session, and closing ceremony with other party and state leaders.
Particular criticism was directed at the party leadership for allegedly skewing electoral processes in their favour.
Appointment of a hereditary baš-knez as Serbian leader, who in turn appoints a knez in each okrug (district).
Background On February 23, 1835, President Andrew Jackson wrote to James Gwin of Tennessee and claimed a preference for someone who would "most likely to be the choice of the great body of republicans" in regard to his successor.
A peace conference is a diplomatic meeting where representatives of states, armies, or other warring parties converge to end hostilities by negotiation and signing and ratifying a peace treaty.
In London, 53 amendments were made to the bill, most of which were procedural and not substantive, and Parliament passed the constitution in essentially the same form it had been submitted by the National Convention.
The organization has grown quickly with hundreds of thousands of supporters and several hundred local chapters.
"A highly critical moment: role and record of the 1907 Hague Peace Conference." Netherlands international law review 54.2 (2007): 197–228.
The area fell, all insurgents were massacred by the Russian army, which announced its victory on 21 May 1864.
The EU–LAC Foundation's activities in this strategic area are designed to contribute to greater knowledge and mutual understanding between our societies and to strengthen bi-regional cooperation.
The investigation was part of an inquiry by Brazilian Supreme Court Justice Alexandre de Moraes into misinformation allegedly perpetuated by the administration of President Jair Bolsonaro.
It sought to provide an alternative to the Saudi-dominated Organization of the Islamic Conference, although it did not have its financial means.
To collect records of experiments showing the humane uplift of relatively backward people, and to urge the universal application of such methods.
It makes decisions on the strategic directions of the Movement's activities, determines the places and dates of regular and extraordinary General Assemblies, and also approves draft programmes and final documents.
Statements adopted by various Global Forums At the 5th GFCA, in 2015, a document confronting Cyberhate and Online Antisemitism in Europe were signed.
Reactions The newly formed Wisconsin Peace Party and the National Peace Party, led by Jane Addams, both endorsed Wales' plan.
Whether this detail was hammered out at Luca is not mentioned by Dio, though Plutarch seems to think that it was one of the terms.
2010 World Social Forum The tenth edition of the World Social Forum was another decentralized affair, with about 35 national, regional and local forums taking place across the world.
Drexel Academic and Leadership Scholarship and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in information systems with distinction, following which he earned a graduate degree in management from Pennsylvania State University.
Laurence Ginnell (anti-Treaty) was absent in Argentina Thomas Kelly (pro-Treaty) was ill Pro-Treaty Anti-Treaty Aftermath To satisfy the requirements of the British constitution, the treaty also had to be ratified by the House of Commons of Southern Ireland.
And over the last nine years, Democrats have lost almost 1,000 legislative seats in states all across this country.
presidential nomination convention List of Democratic National Conventions 1888 Republican National Convention References Further reading Nevins, Allan.
Emergency Council of World Trustees The World Committee for a World Constitutional Convention (WCWCC), renamed World Constitution and Parliament Association (WCPA), organized an Emergency Council of World Trustees (ECWT) during 1969 and 1971.
Historian Peter Neville argued that the Congress of Verona was "largely window dressing", as the economic policies were disliked by the Nazi German occupiers who wanted to exploit Italian industry, and therefore impossible to implement.
The New Economics Foundation, had the aim of "a new model of wealth creation, based on equality, diversity and economic stability".
Smith also suggests that the policies were meant to make it difficult for foreign powers to occupy Italy if they lost the war, in what Mussolini termed a "social minefield" in his letters.
Shortly after the convention, Democratic New York City councilman (and congressional candidate) Ritchie Torres demanded that there be a federal probe into Patton's actions.
This would be a college where university graduates from many different countries, some only a short while before at war with each other, could study and live together.
The central government did not have a specific vision for what a finished system might look like and local governments would be allowed to develop pilot programs that could inform the larger policy approach.
The Conference considered unity and solidarity to be key strategies in the fight against colonialism and economic domination after colonialism; it called for the establishment of Africa-wide organisations, including trade unions youth groups, and a Bureau of Liberatory Movements.
Its first issue proclaimed that "the recent Universal Races Congress, convened in the Metropolis of the Anglo-Saxon world, clearly demonstrated that there was ample need for a Pan-Oriental, Pan-African journal in the seat of the British Empire".
The Budapest Demographic Summit is an international right-wing conferences, that features politicians, church leaders, and activists, discussing issues including family politics, abortion and religious values.
Delegate allocation GPUS-affiliated parties may elect delegates to the presidential nominating convention, typically conducted through a state party convention, caucus or primary.
The 2000 Libertarian National Convention was held in Anaheim, California, from June 30 to July 4, 2000.
All top government and party leaders of the Northeast gathered with the purpose of coordinating and integrating their regional development strategies.
the MHP leadership respected the legal outcome, but stated that they would appeal and not recognise the decision.
Three TDs eligible to vote did not do so: Frank Drohan resigned his seat on 5 January 1922, because he was personally anti-Treaty while his local Sinn Féin branch was pro-Treaty.
Johnson was nominated for vice president after winning one vote more than the two-thirds majority required.
500 people from 45 countries attended the Peoples' World Convention (PWC) at Palais Electoral, Geneva, Switzerland from December 30, 1950, to January 5, 1951.
Later, the Conference adopted a very strong resolution on the Congo: The Conference denounces the role played by General Kettani in the degradation of the situation in the Congo and demands the dismissal of Dag Hammarskjöld equally responsible for the murder of Lumumba.
Steve Radelet, This Child Will be Great by Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, and Choosing My Hero by Riva Levinson; and featured in ‘Africa’s Reformers: Re-Writing Governance’ by former British Prime Minister Tony Blair's Africa Governance Initiative.
Fields of cooperation include economic planning, communications, energy, ecology, industry, agriculture, commerce, foreign trade and investment, logistics, tourism, financing, science and technology, education, health, and culture.
2009 World Social Forum The ninth World Social Forum took place in the Brazilian city of Belém, located in the Amazon rainforest, between January 27 and February 1, 2009.
A preliminary programme was drafted at this meeting, and it was agreed to request the Dutch women to form a committee to take in hand all the arrangements for the Congress and to issue the invitations.
Some well-organised democracies, dominated long-term by a single faction, reduce their parliamentary opposition to tokenism.
It was sponsored by the social media platform Gab, which resulted in backlash from Gab users due to Fuentes' harsh comments about Gab users.
The party's outgoing leader Binali Yıldırım, who vacated the leadership for Erdoğan, was elected unopposed with 300 votes out of 316 voting-elibile members of parliament.
The EU–UK Parliamentary Partnership Assembly (EU-UK PPA) is an inter-parliamentary institution established by the EU–UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement (TCA) to bring together members from the Parliament of the United Kingdom and the European Parliament.
Women’s Conference Since 1989 (the Year of the Woman), Bakersfield has also been home to the Bakersfield Women's Business conference, an annual expo focused on women in business and government.
Purpose The purpose of the Atlanta Conference of Negro Problems was to outline the many difficulties that the black community faced, to suggest solutions to these problems, and to publicize grievances with modern social protocols.
Koray Aydın, former Minister of Public Works and Housing and former Deputy Speaker of the Grand National Assembly, announced his candidacy on 28 November 2015.
Platform The Democratic platform largely confined itself to a defense of the Cleveland administration, supporting reduction in the tariff and taxes generally as well as statehood for the western territories.
Other events The Delphi Economic Forum is partnering with other organizations each year to organize conferences outside Greece, such as in Washington D.C., Paris, Toronto, Brussels, Bucharest and elsewhere, while it is also hosting multiple digital events.
Others in the bottom seven, in order from least popular, were Li Changchun (CCP propaganda chief), Zhang Gaoli (then Shandong Party Chief), Jia Qinglin (CPPCC Chairman), Xi Jinping (then Zhejiang Party chief), Li Yizhong, and Chen Zhili (made State Councilor).
14th International Meeting, 2012 The 14th International Meeting of Communist and Workers' Parties took place from 22 to 25 November 2012 in Beirut, Lebanon.
The Congress marked the nominal transition of power between Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao, who replaced Jiang as General Secretary, and a newly expanded Politburo Standing Committee line-up.
Virginia sent a delegation composed of 12 Cleveland delegates, 10 Hill delegates, and 2 uncommitted.
After he was appointed president, al-Sharaa received congratulations from leaders of many countries and later formed the Syrian transitional government under a constitutional declaration in March 2025.
It was even speculated by the media that more such moves could gain steam, such as that by the Bundelkhand Mukti Morcha for Bundelkhand.
But the Belgian socialist de Paepe played a decisive role in bringing the Belgian delegation across to the collectivist side and isolating the mainly French Proudhonists.
Namely, in order ranking, they are Hu Jintao, Wu Bangguo, Wen Jiabao, Jia Qinglin, Li Changchun, Xi Jinping, Li Keqiang, He Guoqiang and Zhou Yongkang.
History The conference was first organized by George Martin, then the managing general partner of the local law firm Borton, Petrini and Conron.
Leaders of political parties and political organizations from many countries will also attend the meeting.
Shanghai party chief Chen Liangyu ranked tenth from last, while Beijing party chief Liu Qi ranked twelfth from last.
The convention was held behind closed doors, in the fear that a public affair would lead delegates to refuse compromising on contentious areas of disagreement.
Senate Neal Boortz, national syndicated radio talk show host David Nolan, Libertarian Party founder Michael Cloud, U.S.
The next Austrian World Summit will take place on 14 June 2022 – exactly 30 years after the “Earth Summit” in Rio de Janeiro.
Having enjoyed a status of protection in Italy compared to areas controlled by Nazi Germany they were now actively persecuted, arrested and deported to concentration camps with the help of the Fascist Italian police.
The 2007 iteration of the SLD was a landmark meeting as it attracted top-level participation from China.
Around 200 organizations of Africa, Latin America, North America, Asia and Europe have taken part in it.
The intensification of their efforts to wrest their respective countries from economic dependence on the imperialist countries....
Ramaphosa was associated with the MDM's public "ostracism" of Madikizela-Mandela due to the conduct of her "football club", and her patron and favoured candidate, Alfred Nzo, was defeated in two votes.
Victoriano Huerta's regime was represented by Emilio Rabasa, a prominent Lawyer; Agustín Rodríguez, dean of the Escuela Libre de Derecho; and Luis Elguero, a Mexican Senator.
The bills first go through the 'stage of general discussion' where the bill is referred to select committee/joint committee for detailed scrutiny through a motion.
However, much of the "real action" takes place in the invitation-only dinners and receptions hosted by businesses, candidates, and lobbying firms throughout the weekend.
Fifteen different warring factions agreed to the principles of reconciliation and disarmament, but the agreement was shoaled by continued violence in Somalia.
The group had a period of abeyance since the Stavanger meeting in 2016 was postponed following the outcome of the 2016 United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, and David Cameron subsequently stepping down as UK prime minister, to be succeeded by Theresa May.
2023 On March 15, 2023, it was held via video link in Beijing time, with the theme of "The Path to Modernization: The Responsibility of Political Parties".
The Prime Minister of Belarus is required to report to the ABPA, and, at the request of the President, it can deploy the Armed Forces of Belarus abroad.
At that time, the Soviet Union did not have nuclear weapons of its own, although it was engaged in a crash program to develop them.
The congress decided that the proletariat should separate itself from all the bourgeois parties and form a new party.
Fuentes also asked the audience, "Can we get a round of applause for Russia?" which was followed by large applause and chants of "Putin!
The 17th National Congress introduced the idea of a "low-carbon eco-city model" as part of a broader "eco-culture" framework, describing it as part of an effort to encourage sustained peace and common prosperity.
On March 4, 1915, three South American diplomats received the Thanks of Congress and were awarded Congressional Gold Medals (P.L.
The Geneva Congress of 1866 is the common name assigned to the 1st General Congress of the International Workingmen's Association, held in Geneva, Switzerland from 3 to 8 September 1866.
List of inter-parliamentary institutions Since 1949, more than 40 parliamentary assemblies have been brought into being.
In 1965, during one of its national congresses organised in Carrara, the FAIt decided to seek an international congress of anarchist federations.
The main agenda involved relates to the cooperation between the CCP and the Kuomintang, to discuss issues on the reunification of the Republic.
Why not create the World Social Forum, as we have the World Economic Forum, speaking about the people in the world?
Bissell, D-Cady Herrick, Francis Lynde Stetson, and William Collins Whitney led Cleveland's campaign with Whitney as its manager.
Membership The EU–UK Parliamentary Partnership Assembly has 70 members, 35 from the UK Parliament and 35 from the European Parliament.
The hosts decorated the capitol with toy pigs, the mascot of the anti-pay-raise movement, and stuffed cows, mocking John Perzel's defense of the pay raise by claiming that "immigrant cow-milkers" make as much as legislators.
Scheduled speakers included Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orbán, British politicians Suella Braverman and Nigel Farage, and French politician Eric Zemmour.
He said: "It has been my observation that the Negro schools of South Carolina are for the most part without supervision of any kind.
Anna Howard Shaw, who portrayed women's suffrage as a means to attack lynching, and Emmet O'Neal, former Governor of Alabama, who spoke on a governor's responsibility to ensure that local law enforcement carried out the laws, to protect negroes as well as whites.
See also History of the United States Democratic Party Grover Cleveland 1888 presidential campaign 1888 United States presidential election U.S.
Well known participants and speakers included Ahmed Ben Bella, the leader of the Algerian resistance to French rule, Dr Aleida Guevara, daughter of Che, George Galloway, a leading figure in the UK anti-war movement, and Dr Mustafa Barghouti from Palestine.
She declared that, when younger, she would have also defended Cohn-Bendit's positions during the Spanish Revolution, but that her experience showed her the other choice was better.
Speeches The convention set a new standard, as it was scripted as a media event to an unprecedented degree.
The CPC in Dialogue with World Political Parties High-level Meeting is an international political party exchange meeting hosted by the International Department of the Chinese Communist Party.
In parliamentary systems, approval of the head of state is normally a formality since the head of state is a ceremonial figurehead.
The People's Summit was an annual conference in Chicago held by a group of progressive political organizations in the United States.
There were 71 delegates in attendance, of whom the majority (38) were affiliated with the local Swiss labour movement.
For the past 10 years NCoC, together with the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) and state and community level collaborative networks across the nation, has documented the state of civic life in America in city, state, and national CHI reports.
Establishment of the IWA was related to ongoing efforts to coordinate the activities of the trade union movements in Great Britain and France, a project begun in connection with the 1862 London World's Fair.
He initiated the "Call to all nations," an appeal signed by individuals from around the world, urging countries to send delegates to Geneva for a World Constitutional Convention.
History Background The International Workingmen's Association (IWA), commonly known as the First International, was an international association of trade unionist and socialist political activists which attempted to coordinate labour activities across national boundaries.
Manifesto of Verona The Manifesto of Verona (Italian: Manifesto di Verona) was an 18-point document that outlined the future policies of the Italian Social Republic, the RSI.
Greenville, South Carolina, and Spartanburg, South Carolina, were also considered to host the convention.
Congress also passed the Chinese Communist Party Central Committee Organisation Act, ruling that "the Secretary is responsible for all documentations, paperwork, communications, and meeting records of the political party.
Four more years!" Spiro Agnew was renominated for vice president with 1,345 votes against one vote for NBC television journalist David Brinkley and two abstentions.
The congress has been described as a triumph of Guesdism, but in fact was a triumph of collectivism, which Guesde's opponents Paul Brousse and Benoît Malon also supported.
Thurman, Cleveland's running mate in 1888, supported Cleveland for president in 1892, but was not a candidate for vice president.
Role of NGOs The WSF has, especially in recent years, been strongly criticised for replacing popular movements with non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
According to Ramaphosa's biographer, the SACP leadership had encouraged him to run for the position.
It was held under the auspices of the International Committee of the Movements for European Unity, subsequently to become the European Movement after the Congress.
the party leadership clamped down on dissident party associations by abolishing them and setting up new ones in their place headed by more loyal party members.
Following the congress the National Committees to Combat Fascism, a national network that sought community control of police forces, was established.
In 1899 James Barr Ferree, an historian and native Pennsylvanian living in New York City, invited 55 fellow Pennsylvanians also living in New York to join him for dinner at The Waldorf Astoria Hotel.
Based on the results of 1996 elections to the Northern Ireland Forum, invitations to the 1997 meeting were received and accepted by the Northern Ireland Women's Coalition and Labour Party of Northern Ireland (LPNI) as well as the previous parties.
Federica Montseny, a delegate from the FAI, was a strong proponent of this foundation and made speeches in its favour at the congress.
To achieve its objectives, the WCCC drafted a conditional agreement that prominent individuals were asked to sign.
It had a secretariat staff of 17, seconded from the Irish Civil Service; the salary of the secretary of each of the four participating parties was also paid from the Department of the Taoiseach.
Speakers at the conference included Ron Paul, Senators Rand Paul and Mike Lee, Congressman Steve Stockman, actors Vince Vaughn and Jerry Doyle, and Candidates Chuck Baldwin and Debra Medina, among others.
The next speech was held by Lê Duẩn, the party General Secretary, who delivered the Political Report to the 5th National Congress.
In 1903, when the organization was incorporated, the name was shortened to “The Pennsylvania Society.” As the years passed, that dinner at The Waldorf Astoria became the hallmark event of The Pennsylvania Society.
Established in 2011 in Hamburg, Germany, where it is based, the Foundation is a tool for bi-regional relations.
The conference is hosted by the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) in partnership with the Indian Ministry of External Affairs.
Many states send delegates representing multiple candidates, rejecting the feature of artificial disproportionality resulting from, in examples, the general ticket or district elections, in deference to proportionality.
The Basel Congress of 1869 is the common name assigned to the 4th General Congress of the International Workingmen's Association (IWA), commonly known as the First International.
While the electors of Virginia supported Van Buren for the presidency, they cast their vice presidential votes for William Smith.
Lê Đức Thọ, the Head of the party's Central Organizing Committee, talked of the need of regenerating the party by attacking corruption and incompetence within it.
Aliaksandr Kosiniec, former Chief of Staff to the President of Belarus, was selected as deputy chairman.
Vice-presidential delegate vote Angela Walker was approved by consensus by the 221 delegates, securing the nomination as vice-presidential candidate.
He therefore considered himself a representative of Cuban anarchists and adopted a very negative stance towards the Cuban Revolution, marked by the significant repression the regime imposed on the anarchists he knew.
The party was intended to accommodate the political views of both Catholics and Protestants in Indonesia, but the Catholic delegation seceded from the party, and formed the Catholic Party on 12 December 1945.
teachers may be present in a committee about a bill that would affect the education system) and amendments may be brought.
The boundaries of each state should be reviewed and should, if necessary, take into account traditional forms if new states were created.
The only African American to address the crowd was James Weldon Johnson, Field Secretary of the NAACP.
Old History, New Geography : Bifurcating Andhra Pradesh by Jairam Ramesh[2] Film Jai Bolo Telangana (2011).
Li Xi (born 1956) – serving as the CCP committee secretary of Guangdong since 2017, Li became the secretary of the CCDI, succeeding Zhao Leji.
Based in Athens, its annual conference takes place in Delphi, close to the archaeological site of the same name, one of the most significant locations in ancient Greece, and historically regarded by the ancient Greeks as the center of the world.
He is also a member of and frequent lead presenter and discussant at numerous other international reproductive societies, including the Argentine Society of Reproductive Medicine.
Some of those embryos were successfully implanted, and the others were kept in the Center's cryogenic nursery for future implantation.
20α-DHTG has potent progestogenic activity, with peak levels of this metabolite occurring at 2 to 4 hours following administration of trengestone and with a biological half-life of 8 to 14 hours.
XX male syndrome is another cause of sterility, wherein the sexual determining factor on the Y chromosome (SRY) is transferred to the X chromosome due to an unequal crossing over.
The federal government does not track the number of births by sperm or egg donation, and there is no registry.
Ethinylestradiol also has the advantage that it does not interfere with the measurement of serum levels of endogenous estradiol.
One of these drawbacks is that the extra duration of the procedure is longer, ranging between 1.5 and 5 hours.
Genetic testing: once the fertilized embryos have developed into the blastocyst stage, the embryos undergo preimplantation genetic testing (PGT) to test for the correct number of chromosomes to minimize the risk of genetic mutation.
Some define success as when rare/occasional non-motile sperm are observed (fewer than 100,000 per millilitre).
However, in the past this was either not possible or was not always routinely undertaken where a woman gave birth or had an abortion and she may have trouble carrying a child later in life.
Reproductive surgeons can potentially perform a reverse vasectomy to restore male reproductive function following the vasectomy.
Assisted zona hatching is a procedure of assisted reproductive technology, mainly used in IVF, which assists zona hatching.
After obtaining his M.R.C.O.G (and later, the F.R.C.S.) in 1964 in England, he was appointed to the post of Professor and Head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in Singapore, a post which he held for 25 years.
Osborndale Ivanhoe, who was probably the most famous Holstein bull of the early semen era, died in November 1963.
HCG versus GnRH agonist Final maturation induction using GnRH agonist results in a substantial decrease in the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
In the closed vitrification system, samples are placed in a sealed device before being immersed in liquid nitrogen.
Roman Catholicism proscribes the procedure on much the same grounds as in vitro fertilisation, namely the rights of the unborn.
Selective reduction of twins was very controversial at first but has gradually become more accepted.
Time of initiation The time for beginning luteal support can be put in relation to various events: In IVF, generally somewhere between the evening of oocyte retrieval and day 3 after oocyte retrieval, with weak evidence indicating that 2 days after oocyte retrieval may be optimal.
Collection condoms are sterile and made from silicone or polyurethane, as latex is somewhat harmful to sperm.
A haplotype map is thus created, not only exhibiting genes the offspring will contain, but also the parental origin of the genes.
The very next day, Whitehead went back to the Sterns and demanded that the baby be given back to her.
Advantages Once a panel of associated genetic markers has been established for a particular disease it can be used for all carriers of that disease.
This is due to the fact that it is more difficult for the doctor to locate all the sperm with such a significant optical increase.
It is therefore a model for a minimal genome, that is, a genome that is reduced to mostly essential genes.
(Fertility protection in leukemia patients), information of the European Leukemia Information Center (ELIC) of European LeukemiaNet (in German language)
CRISPR/Cas9 is an effective way of manipulating the genome in vivo in animals as well as in human cells in vitro, but some issues with the efficiency of delivery and editing mean that it is not considered safe for use in viable human embryos or the body's germ cells.
Zygote intra fallopian transfer (ZIFT) is an infertility treatment used when a blockage in the fallopian tubes prevents the normal binding of sperm to the egg.
Research and clinical applications of MRT were overseen by laws made by federal and state governments.
This chronic inflammatory state can lead to fibrosis that is a commonly seen in endometriosis, often presenting as adhesions.
The main regimens to achieve ovulation suppression are: GnRH agonist administration given continuously before starting the gonadotropin hyperstimulation regimen.
The spermatozoon is selected at higher magnification; the aim of this is to improve the chance of pregnancy.
Lee's team at the Wellington pioneered the first UK practise of gamete Intra-fallopian transfer (GIFT), The GIFT of Life (a technique invented by Ricardo Asch in the United States).
In Australia and New Zealand, a training program in reproductive endocrinology and infertility takes 3 years, and is offered in 15 centers across the two countries.
These polymorphic markers are able to distinguish between embryos that carried normal, balanced, and unbalanced translocations.
After medical school at Harvard Medical School and training in general surgery and critical care, Suffolk native, Dr.
DH appears in conversations about family, sexuality and relationships within Muslim, LDS, and Jewish online communities.
Indications Ovulation induction helps reversing anovulation or oligoovulation, that is, helping women who do not ovulate on their own regularly, such as those with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
One potential issue is the necessity to make sure the partner who donates the egg is a legal parent of the child.
The main medications used for induction of final maturation are human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and GnRH agonist.
He does not recognize her, as he was abducted and locked in a small room for 15 years (20 years in the remake).
In 2000 the Center implanted a frozen-thawed embryo from the highly endangered African wildcat into the uterus of a domestic house cat, resulting in a healthy male wildcat.
This AI-based software relies on artificial vision to extract features not identifiable with the use of conventional microscopy.
The endometrium is believed to not be optimally prepared for implantation following ovarian hyperstimulation, and therefore frozen embryo transfer avails for a separate cycle to focus on optimizing the chances of successful implantation.
Fertility preservation, such as ovarian tissue or oocyte cryopreservation, may also be used to prevent infertility, as well as birth defects, associated with advanced maternal age.
They treated the first couple in the United Kingdom in 1988 and the first IVF surrogacy child was born in 1989.
Subsequently he served in occupied Japan as part of the first naval line officer to enter Nagasaki, left the Navy as a lieutenant commander.
In 1983, Alan Trounson and Linda Mohr reported the first pregnancy which used embryo cryopreservation (frozen human embryos).
Three days after the birth, the infant was handed to the Sterns, who renamed her Melissa Elizabeth Stern.
Purpose and goals The Donor Sibling Registry (DSR) was founded in 2000 to assist individuals conceived as a result of sperm, egg or embryo donation who are seeking to make mutually desired contact with others with whom they share genetic ties.
According to a 2002 study, egg donations had a 38% success rate in cases of women past their reproductive years.
Weight loss also generally results in improved menstrual regularity and pregnancy rates in women with PCOS.
The proposed complaint cites negligence, constructive fraud, battery, breach of contract, breach of express warranty, and negligent hiring or retention as to defendant and reproductive endocrinology associates.
In addition to being noninvasive and relatively pain free, Coculture can be performed during a short office visit.
Similarly to TESE, an incision is made in the scrotum and surface of the testicle to expose seminiferous tubules.
The procedure involves taking thousands of pictures of the growing embryo in vitro during incubation to study morphology and morphokinetic parameters.
GIVF headquarters are in Fairfax, VA, US, and its facilities include locations in Pennsylvania, Minnesota, California, and Texas in the United States, as well as in China, Mexico, and several other countries.
After freezing the straws were placed in 95 °F water and thawed for 60 seconds before being placed into a stainless steel gun.
"Methods of semen collection in an ambulatory greater one‐horned rhinoceros (rhinoceros unicornis)." Zoo Biology 9.3 (1990): 211-221.
This central image is surrounded by other figures, including a centaur, the piercing of the evil eye, and the demon's daughter, winged and reptile-tailed, identified by an inscription.
The saliva salt crystal formation is known as "ferning", due to the visual similarity to a fern plant under the microscope as the saliva dries.
The sample obtained after washing is analysed, usually using the PCR technique, to check that there is no viral particle.
History of transboundary shipment of sterile insects Transboundary shipment of sterile insects has taken place on a continuous basis for 60 years (since 1963).
Parker's concurrence and Christian nationalism Chief Justice Tom Parker's concurring opinion rested heavily on Christian principles, leading to concern about his overall approach to judiciary duties.
Furthermore, ovarian tissue is fragile under hard freezing conditions and putting it back into the body carries the risk of re-introducing cancerous cells.
In addition the patient will need to take hCG (as with other less invasive treatments such as ovulation monitoring and intrauterine insemination) to time egg collection as well as progesterone pessaries to supplement the body's progesterone levels.
The sperm–cervical mucus contact test is an in-vitro slide test used for detecting antispermal antibodies.
Drawbacks Due to the very low temperatures required, varying levels of stress are put on the DNA samples.
The effects of tubal flushing with either type of contrast media beyond six months are unknown and more research is needed to see if there is a difference in contrast media when used for tubal flushing in laparoscopy with chromopertubation.
See also Azoospermia Intracytoplasmic sperm injection Percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration Semen cryopreservation == References ==
Exposure to any of the temporary factors can cause up to a three-month delay before sperm quality returns to normal, due to spermiogenesis.
Thrombophilia Thrombophilia is a condition which makes the blood more likely to clot and this increases cardiovascular risk, meaning the individual is at higher risk of heart attacks, strokes or DVTs.
Personal life Cline has four children, including Donna and Doug, with his wife, Audrey, in addition to the 94 other children conceived by artificially inseminating women with his own sperm without their knowledge or consent.
Pronatalism advocacy The Collinses are prominent figures within the pronatalist movement, which advocates for higher birth rates as a means to address demographic and economic challenges.
At the end of the luteal phase, there is a slight rise in FSH that seems to be of importance to start the next ovulatory cycle.
This allows the sperm to be examined in greater detail, including the nucleus which contains the sperm's genetic material.
"Immunosuppressive activity in human IVF culture supernatants and prediction of outcome of embryo transfer".
Names In one magic-related text, the archangel Michael confronts Abyzou and compels her to tell him the 40 names that can control her.
History Introduced in 2001, the intracytoplasmic morphologically selected sperm injection (IMSI) procedure changed the perception of how a spermatozoon suitable for fertilization (via injection into the egg) should appear.
Indications Sometimes, some embryos have a thickened or deformed zona pellucida that makes it difficult for them to come out and, therefore, can lead to implantation failures.
PGH provides a more feasible method of gene location than whole-genome association experiments, which are expensive and time-consuming.
Experimental options include testicular tissue banking, in which testicular tissue is surgically removed and frozen.
He was Chairman and Director, In Vitro Fertilisation Program Melbourne Family Medical Centre Monash University 1978–86, where he carried out most of his pioneering work in this field.
Electroejaculation has also been used for the cryoconservation of animal genetic resources, where semen is stored in low temperatures with the intent of conserving genetic material and future revival.
In men who have the necessary reproductive organs to procreate, infertility can be caused by low sperm count due to endocrine problems, drugs, radiation, or infection.
Trengestone is excreted 41 to 46% in urine and up to 30% unchanged in feces, suggesting that a significant portion of the medication is not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract.
The postcoital test (PCT), also known as the Sims test, Hühner test , Sims–Hühner test, or cervical mucous penetration assay is a test in the evaluation of infertility.
During a HSG procedure, the uterus is injected with contrast dye, which can be observed via fluoroscopy.
The central conflict is built on several dichotomies: between the Apollonian and Dionysian, the technocratic Northern Europe and underdeveloped Mediterranean region, and the rationalist idealism of Postchristianity and materialist philosophy of ancient Greece.
Potential role in vascularization of solid tumors Elevated FSH receptor levels have been detected in the endothelia of tumor vasculature in a very wide range of solid tumors.
Society and culture There are a variety of social stigmas that surround male infertility throughout the world.
It is also necessary to perform a biopsy on these embryos in order to obtain material on which to perform the diagnosis.
It should not be confused with Kurzrock–Miller test, where there is interface between the two materials; whereas in this test the materials are thoroughly mixed.
Oncofertility is a subfield that bridges oncology and reproductive research to support fertility preservation in cancer survivors.
Recruited to Chicago in 1981 as chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at Mount Sinai Hospital and professor of obstetrics and gynecology and immunology/microbiology at Rush Medical College, he was put in charge of rebuilding an academic teaching department in the inner city.
Research also investigates ethical issues in oncofertility, such as the decision-making process for adolescent children and their families.
The Collinses are currently the managing directors of the corporate wholesale travel agency Travelmax.
Auditors from KPMG Peat Marwick investigated the clinic and found that almost $1 million in income at the clinic had not been reported.
Incisions are then made through the outer covering of the testis to retrieve biopsies of seminiferous tubules, which are the structures that contain sperm.
Over his career, he has received three national and four internationals research awards, including the IVI award 2007.
However, important characteristics of sperm such as DNA integrity remain untested by these conventional methods.
Potential candidates White rhinoceros Over the years, concerns over population declines of the northern white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum cottoni) have increased with the increasing value of their horns to poachers.
When compared with FNA of the testis, conventional TESE is 2-fold more effective at identifying sperm in men with non-obstructive azoospermia.
Oncofertility also encompasses reproductive issues after cancer treatment, such as family planning, complex contraception, hormonal management throughout survivorship, surrogacy, and adoption.
In 2018, it was reported that DNA testing has led to a significant increase in donor-conceived people finding their siblings and sperm donors.
Donor options According to a survey by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, 54% of fertility patients want to preserve their remaining embryos for future use.
BMT by Todd was a 1994 case of the Indiana Supreme Court which, in a 4–1 decision, ruled that a custodial parent cannot bargain away a child's right to financial support even with a pre-sexual intercourse contract.
The scientists have already extracted cells from a Sumatran tiger, which could be used for artificial insemination.
Gene expression profiling of cumulus cells surrounding the oocyte and early embryo, or on granulosa cells, provides an alternative that does not involve sampling from the embryo itself.
The suction device must maintain a pressure of -140 mmHg (necessary to aspirate rapidly, but not enough to damage the follicles) and a temperature of approximately 37 °C.
Jewish religious law frames the conflict primarily as one between the principle of burying the body whole (i.e.
An engaged couple in South Africa, who had been together for five years and were expecting a child, discovered that they were brother and sister just before their wedding.
The chances of a couple to successfully conceive at an advanced age depend on many factors, including the general health of a woman and the fertility of the male partner.
Therefore, ovarian culture systems have become increasingly widely used in reproductive biology and toxicology.
The partnership made Prelude the largest fertility services provider in the U.S and added Aspire Fertility clinics to the Prelude Network.
There are potential considerations for concurrent IVF, including increased costs and potential stress from two childbirth deliveries.
Azoospermia in these patients could be a result of Y chromosome microdeletions, cancer of the testicles or damage to the pituitary gland or hypothalamus, which regulate sperm production.
This embryo-mother communication is finely regulated by numerous cellular pathways, including epigenetic mechanisms.
The parameters for evaluation at day 2-3: Number of cells and division rhythm: The optimal number of cells is 4 at day 2 and 8 at day 3 (A quality).
This goes beyond the traditional father–mother model, and the third party's involvement is limited to the reproductive process and does not extend into the raising of the child.
Male genetic abnormalities The quality of the sperm that fertilizes an egg is a key contributor to the overall quality of the embryo.
Functional studies of the missense mutations revealed impaired transcriptional activation of NR5A1-responsive target genes.
More recently, some Catholic authors have seen the Creighton Model FertilityCare System, a technique based on the search for the restoration of fertility as a way to obtain a natural conception, as a morally licit alternative to other assisted reproduction techniques such as IVF.
Psychological People trying to cope with involuntary childlessness may experience symptoms of distress that are similar to those experienced by bereaved people, such as health problems, anxiety and depression.
Achievements Main achievements of the institute in the area of research have influenced and significantly improved the reproductively of cattle, buffalo and sheep through: Improving reproductive potentials of farm animals.
In 2009, he was commissioned to deliver the Patrick Steptoe Memorial Lecture in honour of the prominent British obstetrician and gynecologist before the British Fertility Society.
According to NICE guidelines, oral ovarian stimulation agents should not be given to women with unexplained infertility.
Unknown to Anand, Nandita becomes pregnant with his child, but since she is unmarried and does not know the father, Nandita's father forces her to give up the baby for adoption.
Several packaging techniques are used for sperm cryopreservation, each with its advantages and disadvantages: Cryo-tops (Cryovials or Cryotubes) Advantages: Provide a good surface for sample identification.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist/antagonist conversion with estrogen priming (AACEP) protocol.
For example, in Illinois, the courts employ at least two clear approaches to determining how embryos are allocated in the event of a divorce or separation of the parties.
High frequency of STRs or SNPs in alleles of affected individuals in comparison to their unaffected direct relatives indicates the origin of a disease causing mutation.
Around the time of ovulation, a conception cap or cervical cap is filled with semen and placed on a woman's cervical os for several hours to maximize the time the semen is available to fertilise a waiting egg.
Primary human endometrial endothelial cells were found to internalize miRNAs into vesicles and actively secrete large amounts of exosomes.
Once the alleles that correlate with a mutation are characterized, PGH of the embryos is possible and only embryos carrying the low risk haplotypes are selected for transfer.
Limitations Although morphokinetics has its advantage in terms of selecting embryos for implantation, the technology is unable to deselect all abnormal embryos.
Genetic parents entering an embryo adoption program are offered the benefits of selecting the adoptive parents from the agency's pool of prescreened applicants.
In November 2020, a northern California woman sued her former fertility doctor Michael Kiken for having falsely inseminated her with his own sperm forty years prior.
In organisms that reproduce sexually, embryonic development is the part of the life cycle that begins just after fertilization of the female egg cell by the male sperm cell.
The use of high magnification for morphological sperm selection prior to ICSI has been associated with higher pregnancy rates and lower miscarriage rate.
In sexual evolutionary biology, especially in sexual selection, fecundity is contrasted to reproductivity.
A systematic review and meta-analysis concluded that prophylactic treatment with cabergoline reduces the incidence, but not the severity of OHSS, without compromising pregnancy outcomes.
This procedure is used frequently with large mammals, particularly bulls and some domestic animals, as well as humans who have certain types of anejaculation.
FSH is synthesized and secreted by the gonadotropic cells of the anterior pituitary gland and regulates the development, growth, pubertal maturation, and reproductive processes of the body.
Since HyCoSy is performed using transvaginal ultrasound, it is less invasive than chromopertubation.
Increases the penalty for deception involving the identity of a person or the identity or quantity of property to a Level 6 felony if the offense involves a misrepresentation relating to: (1) a medical procedure, device, or drug; and (2) human reproductive material.
Mrs MacLennan claimed that she had conceived the child through artificial insemination and that she had not committed adultery.
There is good and consistent evidence of benefit in ultrasound guidance, that is, making an abdominal ultrasound to ensure correct placement, which is 1–2 cm from the uterine fundus.
These cervical caps are designed for conception and are different from the cervical caps used for contraception, although these may also be used as conception devices.
The cost of reciprocal IVF is more than IVF due to additional costs including donor sperm fees, legal fees, and fertility medications.
One of the biggest problems in women who have to undergo chemo- or radiotherapy is premature ovarian failure (premature ovarian insufficiency) and its associated infertility.
Critical OHSS includes enlarged ovary, tense ascites with hydrothorax and pericardial effusion, hematocrit > 55%, WBC > 25,000, oligoanuria, creatinine > 1.6 mg/dl, creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min, kidney failure, thromboembolic phenomena, and ARDS.
MacLennan v MacLennan 1958 SC 105 is a Scots a family law decision that ruled that artificial insemination does not constitute adultery for the purposes of divorce.
References External links "Revolutionary new technology will allow more couples to benefit from preimplantation genetic diagnosis".
Administration of enough GnRH agonist to compete with the antagonist will result in release of FSH and LH which subsequently increases the release of Estrogen.
Germany tightened its conditions for public funding in 2004, which caused a sharp drop in the number of ART cycles carried out, from more than 102,000 in 2003 to fewer than 57,000 the following year.
For example, depending on how a country handles healthcare costs and health insurance, the cancer survivor may have to pay directly for the cost of storing frozen sperm.
The technique was lauded for its environmental attributes: it leaves no residues and has no (direct) negative effect on nontarget species.
Doing so reduces the possibility of conceiving twins or triplets, thus allowing parents to exercise greater control over their vision for their families.
In 2024, approximately 90% of fertility clinics participated, though the results are susceptible to manipulation by cherry picking couples with a higher chance of conception.
Osmotic stress occurs when ice crystals form inside the nucleus during the freezing process, causing differing osmotic pressures within the cell.
The production of eggs, which in females is usually low, can be increased through hormone treatment to obtain 10–20 oocytes, dependent on the species.
Parkes and two British scientists, which involved the use of glycerol to preserve animal sperm during freezing and thawing.
There are a few frozen zoos across the world that implement this technology for conservation efforts.
Natural Cycle IVF is in vitro fertilisation (IVF) using either of the following procedures: IVF without the use any ovarian hyperstimulation drugs.
Asch was defended by students, and colleagues, including Robert Edwards, who accused the media of convicting him before he was charged.
It is administered as either multiple 0.25 mg daily subcutaneous injections or as a single-dose 3 mg subcutaneous injection.
In addition, cetrorelix can be used to treat hormone-sensitive cancers of the prostate and breast (in pre-/perimenopausal women) and some benign gynaecological disorders (endometriosis, uterine fibroids and endometrial thinning).
The ovaries of young mice (19–23 days) are removed and halved, and follicles are identified under a microscope.
The world’s first baby born as a result of directly injecting a single sperm into the centre of an oocyte was conceived at Bourn Hall.
Located in Norfolk, Virginia, in the Ghent neighborhood and adjacent to Downtown, the hospital serves as the Hampton Roads region's only Level I trauma center.
Documentary filmmaker Barry Stevens has stated "it's possible he [Bertold Wiesner] didn't tell his wife and she believed the donations were coming from a lot of different men".
The technique was used to eradicate the melon fly from Okinawa and in the fight against the tsetse fly in Africa.
Success of IVF In the US, ART cycles started in 2006 resulted in 41,343 births (54,656 infants), which is slightly more than 1% of total US births.
Pre-implantation genetic diagnosis Pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD or PIGD) is a procedure in which embryos are screened prior to implantation.
Other uses of MRT In 2018, researchers announced the use of MRT to restore function to heart tissue in cardiac-compromised newborns.
A high powered microscope is used to pick out and the best sperm cells which are then used in a traditional ICSI protocol.
In 1982 was appointed as founding editor-in-chief of The Journal of In Vitro Fertilization and Embryo Transfer (JIVF-ET), holding this position for approximately 20 years.
Stem cell therapy Several experimental treatments related to stem cell therapy are not yet routinely used in reproductive medicine.
He was appointed medical director at Bourn Hall Clinic, Cambridge, in the UK in March 1989 following the death of Patrick Steptoe in 1988.
However, Mrs MacLennan could not provide the court with any proof of her taking artificial insemination.
The number of pregnancies obtained from an individual donor in each country where his sperm is exported will be subject to any local or national rules which apply.
g., from stallions and canids), prostate massage, artificial vagina, penile vibratory stimulation (vibroejaculation) and electroejaculation.
IMSI is a method that can be chosen by for anyone who has failed IVF cycles in the past, and for couples who have a component of male infertility.
Some well-established medical tourism and IVF countries such as the Czech Republic, Ukraine, Greece, and Cyprus offer egg freezing at competitive prices.
Case studies for the productivity of these incentives on dairy farms have shown to have positive results.
Recipients As with the repository's criteria to accept sperm donors, its criteria for women to receive sperm from the bank were not as high as initially reported.
These involve injections into each cow with a measured amount of progesterone or progestin and waiting 5-7 days, or until heat signals occur, before moving onto different impregnating methods such as joining the cows or heifers with a bull.
This is an advantage because PGD methods such as FISH are able to reveal whether an embryo will express the phenotypic difference, but not whether an embryo may be a carrier.
The natural position of the tubes allows an easy approach (unlike the Lap and Dye procedure) At the end of the procedure a full hysteroscopy is performed Published papers show that Fertiloscopy, even without its inherent salpingoscopy, is fully equivalent to full laparoscopic investigation.
Women should be counseled on established options such as embryo banking in which hormonal stimulation causes the production of multiple eggs, which are removed, fertilized by sperm, and frozen for future use.
Anand tries many times to speak with Nandita, even going to one of his remote sites where a building is being constructed and pretends to make blank calls to his house, with his wife answering each time, getting annoyed at what she believes is a person prank calling her home.
The Birmingham Women's Fertility Centre at Birmingham Women’s Hospital, Birmingham, England, formerly named the "Assisted Conception Unit", is one of the UK's leading medical centres for infertility treatment and care.
Together with geneticist Markus Hengstschläger he reported Austria’s first preimplantation diagnosis (polar body biopsy).
At the peak of his career, he was the secretary-general of the Asia and Oceania Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (AOFOG) and the president of the International Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology.
The bill's co-sponsor Senator Tammy Duckworth urged action on the bill in light of the Alabama court ruling.
See also Gynography Gynoroentgenology Obstetric ultrasonography Sonosalpingography Vaginal ultrasonography Air polymer-type A References External links Information about Sonography Fertility and Gynaecology Academy
For example, if you have 12 individuals in an age class and they produced 16 surviving young, the Fx is 16, and the mx is 1.336.
PGH also has an advantage over fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in that FISH is not usually able to make the differentiation between embryos that possess the balanced form of a chromosomal translocation and those carrying the homologous normal chromosomes.
2 years later, in 1985 the society for assisted reproductive technology (SART) was founded as a special interest entity within the American Fertility Society.
Prenatal care is a type of preventative healthcare which serves to prevent potential health problems and promote a healthy lifestyle during the pregnancy.
Documentary No One Asked You is a feature documentary in post-production by filmmaker Ruth Leitman following Lizz Winstead and the Abortion Access Front team.
The "Elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls" forms a priority theme for its fifty-seventh session in 2013 (CSW57).
A court may authorize for a surrogate to provide consent to the sterilization or abortion of another person, after the surrogate petitions the court, provides supporting documents on the intent of the patient, gives notice to all relevant parties, and a hearing is conducted to review the matter.
On January 6, 2026, the Wyoming Supreme Court ruled abortion restrictions unconstitutional under said amendment, stating that "whether to terminate or continue a pregnancy is a woman’s own health care decision protected by Article 1, Section 38." == References ==
The office's collection of records on suspected and convicted homosexuals, which is believed to number about 100,000, was likely destroyed in the last days of the war.
Patients themselves were not protected by the shield laws, and remained subject to prosecution for self-managing abortions.
Instead of viewing the maternal-fetal relationship as a conflict, there are viewpoints that have shifted the perspective to maternal-fetal shared interest.
Wade were overturned or repealed, "the former policy of this State to prohibit abortions unless necessary for the preservation of the mother's life shall be reinstated." 1975 – On 19 February 1975, the Texas Supreme Court ruled in the case Jacobs v.
The legislation was originally advocated by Senator Lindsey Graham, then later on the legislation was introduced in the house as H.R.
In 2015, the name of the day was changed to International Safe Abortion Day in an attempt to have a simpler, easier to remember name and to advocate for the day to become an official UN day.
The organisation was secular, utilitarian, individualistic, and "above all malthusian." The organisation maintained that it was concerned about the poverty of the British working class and held that over-population was the chief cause of poverty.
In 2005, responding to the lack of research on the Latina community living in the United States, the Latina Institute (then known as the National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health) released its National Latina Agenda for Reproductive Justice.
In order to have capacity, a person must have the ability to understand and appreciate the consequences of the treatment decision.
The Waldau Cantonal University Psychiatric Hospital in Bern performed an estimated 516 sterilizations between 1930 and 1953, with more than 90% performed on women and "numerous" cases without informed consent.
As for the clinic at which English was sterilized, she claimed that it was still operating, though declined to name it, or the doctor responsible for her sterilization.
Autonomous jurisdictions The table below summarizes the legal grounds for abortion in African dependent territories of countries outside of Africa.
Proponents of tax exemption argue that tampons, menstrual pads, menstrual cups, and comparable products constitute basic, unavoidable necessities for women, and any additional taxes constitute a pink tax.
Initial reports discussing the current picture of discrimination against women in the reporting states are required to specifically deal with each article of the CEDAW, and consist of no more than one-hundred pages.
However, the Catholic hospital in Heiligenstadt in the Catholic-dominated Eichsfeld region had to hand over its gynecology department to a state clinic, as there would otherwise have been no possibility of abortion in the town.
Judgment Justice Thurgood Marshall, writing for the majority, held that the California statute was not preempted.
It is possible for example, that low income individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to know what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health.
Media adaptations In 2020, Somethin' Else and Sony Music Entertainment released a podcast telling the story of Jan Karbaat and his children called "The Immaculate Deception".
Forced Abortion Condemnation Act is a bill, introduced at the 105th United States Congress on September 29, 1997, by the Republican sponsor Tillie Fowler.
Economics and market dynamics Scholars and public health researchers examine costs and funding sources, as well as how regulation shapes supply, demand, and market structure for abortion services.
The act was subsequently amended in 2021, with the MTP Amendment Act 2021, to introduce reforms such as increased gestational limits, grounds, and procedures to access abortion care.
On 3 June 1996, the French criminal court found the doctor innocent as the foetus was not considered viable, and thus was not a "human person" under the French Criminal Code (then Article 319, now Articles 221—226).
Every Life Counts, a similar support/campaign group for parents of children diagnosed with fatal foetal abnormalities, but who are opposed to change in Ireland's abortion law, were invited.
It appears that at this hospital physicians who performed emergency cesarean sections sometimes used the opportunity to persuade a woman to accept permanent contraception".
In 1892, the Dutch league became the first to set up a medical clinic to provide information directly to the poor.
The Protestant influence helped make opposition to abortion part of the Republican Party's platform by the 1990s.
NNAF is a member of several national coalitions, including the Training and Access Working Group (TAWG), the Communications Group (communications directors from pro-choice organizations), and SisterSong Women of Color Reproductive Health Collective.
These regions have less means to track the success, yet they are an important factor to consider when discussing herbal abortion.
Similar protections have also been extended to patients and providers of Gender-affirming hormone therapy.
Among women who had abortions in Italy, 2% of those who did not experience intimate partner violence, 7% who experienced psychological violence, and 13% who experienced physical or sexual violence stated that they become pregnant because their partner wanted them to be pregnant.
Líderes Campesinas provides farm working communities with the appropriate information to ensure their human rights, from workshops about labor rights, food safety, and pesticide training.
Provisions The amendment created a new Section 38 within Article 1 of the Wyoming constitution entitled "Right of health care access".
Activist Elizabeth Meixell, a member of both groups, is often credited with forming the New York City chapter, which brought together queer and feminist activists for theatrical protests in support of reproductive rights.
When Hoskinson hired an attorney, she was immediately terminated for failing to follow the internal dispute resolution protocol.
For example, a low-income mother may not be able to afford nutritious meals resulting in circumstance playing a role in maternal-fetal decisions.
"Fifty Years of Family Planning: New Evidence on the Long-Run Effects of Increasing Access to Contraception".
History In July 2011, the CRR filed suit against the state of North Dakota over a state law that would ban all medical abortions.
Northup holds adjunct appointments at NYU Law School and Columbia Law School, where she has taught courses in constitutional and human rights law.
In the film of the same name and its sequel, Newt Scamander's collection of creatures in his suitcase includes a herd of mooncalves.
She is the president of the Center for Reproductive Rights, an abortion rights organization, in New York City.
The current statutory prohibition on forced sterilization applies only to residents of an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
A year later, she was responsible for treating soldiers and prostitutes as director of the United States Health Service.
In addition, the Murder Act 1751 specified that murderers had to be hanged within 2 days of conviction, reducing the opportunity for female killers to get pregnant.
Young informed UPS that she could not work while under a lifting restriction and stayed home without pay during most of the time she was pregnant.
History and background Population Balance was founded by David Paxson as World Population Balance in 1993.
Department of Health and Human Services, paternity registries .PDF State information from NH Probate Admin Office .PDF Putative father registry by state information Putative father registry, Adoption.com Ohio and general Putative father registry information, Eriksmith.org Idaho external link info
Breastfeeding Some trans women can induce lactation, enabling them to breastfeed babies they did not birth.
Mrs Vo brought the case to the European Court of Human Rights, charging that the French government's failure to provide criminal penalties for accidentally destroying a foetus was incompatible with the state's duty to protect the right to life of the unborn child under Article 2.
Apolonia "Polly" Muñoz Abarca (née Muñoz; September 5, 1920 – December 10, 2009) was a health professional and reproductive rights advocate in Corpus Christi, Texas.
WGNRR then relocated its main office to the Global South and by 2009, the main office was transferred from the Netherlands to the Philippines.
Low fertility can be a result of social norms of family size, rising marginal costs of an additional child, or birth control policies.
To date, the group has not spoken out about cancer treatment or children's health services, which are also carried out in neighboring provinces.
In 1987, at another IWHM conference, WGNRR partnered with the Latin America and Caribbean Women's Health Network to launch a campaign addressing maternal mortality and declared May 28 the International Day of Action for Women's Health.
He has successfully lobbied the Georgia state legislature to expand the time frame in which paternity tests could be administered.
pregnancy loss or miscarriages can also lead to increased risks of psychological and/or physical health problems.
ANCIC stated it supported the government's stand against "virginity tests", but warned that in some cases women were in "real danger" and "a ban would simply deny the existence of such community practices, without making them disappear".
Lastly, understaffed facilities may face reduced patient satisfaction and potential loss of revenue.
The Alabama Supreme Court's ruling received bipartisan criticism, particularly in the wake of the U.S.
In response, Puerto Rico's governor and Commissioner of health opened 160 private, temporary birth control clinics with the specific purpose of sterilization.
Forensic experts discredit the use of such a test in criminal proceedings because of the number of false positives on record.
They are known for type 1 genital mutilation, which includes the partial or total removal of the clitoral glans or clitoral hood.
Although sterilization is considered a permanent procedure, it is possible to attempt a tubal reversal to reconnect the fallopian tubes or a vasectomy reversal to reconnect the vasa deferentia.
United Nations Commission on the Status of Women - fifty-seventh session The fifty-seventh session of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women took place at the UN building, New York between 4 and 15 March 2013.
The reality of the "wrongful-life" concept is that such a plaintiff both exists and suffers, due to the negligence of others.
Recommendation 111Development of the plan would require, among other things: Identification of a small set of key policy, legal and programme-delivery targets (institutions) at the national level towards which global violence prevention efforts can be directed.
The organization helped draft the language of the bill and was credited by Fast Company as the "primary driver" of the law.
Zimbabwe’s Cyber-shutdown: A counter-productive economic decision or a politically retrogressive move?
Fields in The Bank Dick (1940) advises his prospective son-in-law to avoid being a "mooncalf" by buying shares he has been conned into believing are worth much more than the proffered price.
The announcement came after the release of the results of the Seventh National Population Census, which showed that the number of births in mainland China in 2020 was only 12 million, the lowest number of births since 1960, and the further aging of the population, against which the policy was born.
She elucidates the complex intersection of science, gender norms, and societal expectations that have delayed the mass production of a male contraceptive pill.
Debate Arguments in support Advocacy groups have made a number of arguments in favor of parental notification.
According to the Guttmacher Institute, 31% of women in rural areas traveled over 100 miles in order to receive an abortion, while another 43% traveled between 50 and 100 miles.
One hundred and twenty organizations joined amicus briefs on Carder's behalf, including the American Medical Association and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists.
RD won three Religion Newswriters Association (RNA) awards for Excellence in Religion Commentary and Analysis, a Wilbur Award for outstanding work by secular communicators on religion, and a Science for Religion Writers award from the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
Here, the matter of the statutory scheme, viewed as a whole, is a valid exercise of the federal power over criminal law.
National effect Along with California, voters in Michigan and Vermont affirmed the right to an abortion in their state constitutions respectively with Proposal 3 and Proposal 5, becoming the first three states in the nation to do so.
The report decried the harmful effects of teenage pregnancy and gender-based violence and stated that women's rights were equal to other human rights.
Even if there is the odd abortion procedure in a state with strict laws, it's not going to be enough for residents to truly learn, argues some doctors, including Kavita Vinekar, MD, an OB-GYN at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA in Los Angeles.
Impact In vitro fertilization access Following the Alabama Supreme Court's ruling, the University of Alabama at Birmingham announced that it was pausing in vitro fertilization treatments.
A pregnancy that ends before 37 weeks of gestation resulting in a live-born infant is a "premature birth" or a "preterm birth".
And because so many laws use the terms 'persons' or 'people', a prenatal personhood measure could affect large numbers of a state's laws, changing the application of thousands of laws and resulting in unforeseeable, unintended, and absurd consequences.
The agreed conclusions from the session agreed the following four actions: Strengthening implementation of legal and policy frameworks and accountability.
South Carolina Putative Father Registry Form Tennessee - The Tennessee Department of Children's Services website gives no information for its putative father registry and only by searching the adoption forms section can a person find the Notice of Intent to Claim Paternity.
In addition, a nationally representative survey in 2015 indicated that over 70% of women agreed that not having to make out of pocket payments helped with their ability to use birth control and also aided their consistency of use.
Comparatively, the campaigns for the other California ballot propositions spent $564.8 million by this time.
This declaration has had world-wide impact in the recognition of the importance of sexual rights as human rights.
The Abortion Support Network is a UK charity and abortion fund which provides financial assistance, accommodation and consultation to people in Europe who are seeking an abortion abroad.
Abrams, a nurse attorney, appealed the Leon County Circuit Court ruling and the Florida chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union joined as amicus.
The Congress and the several States shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation within their respective jurisdictions.
Switzerland In Switzerland, since July 1, 2022, same-sex marriage has provided children of lesbian couples, one of whom is infertile, with the emotional and financial support of both parents.
This last mandatory sterilisation has been criticised by several political parties in Sweden and since 2011 the Parliament of Sweden was expected to change the law but ran into opposition from the Christian Democrat party.
History The association was founded in 1979, under Law 1901 that establishes Voluntary associations.
The HBF asserted that sterilization was neither mutilation nor punishment, and it sought to dispel the widely held view that sterilization inhibited or increased sexual promiscuity.
It sought to "condemn those officials of the Chinese Communist Party, the Government of the People's Republic of China, and other persons who are involved in the enforcement of forced abortions by preventing such persons from entering or remaining in the United States".
Summary tables Countries The table below summarizes the legal grounds for abortion in all United Nations member states and United Nations General Assembly observer states and some countries with limited recognition.
Elements The curative care aspect of PAC includes treating incomplete abortions by removing any fetal or maternal tissues remaining in the uterus.
Highlighting the lack of comprehensive data, Campo-Engelstein underscores the complexities of decision-making about gender-affirming and reproductive care.
She was honored by the academic journal The Green Bag for "exemplary legal writing" in 2013 for her article The Birth of Death: Stillborn Birth Certificates and the Problem for Law, which first appeared on the California Law Review.
These cases are usually labeled "wrongful pregnancy" (or "wrongful conception" in appropriate cases).
Statutory rape, incest and underage pregnancy In 1995–1996, the journal Family Planning Perspectives published a study by the Guttmacher Institute, a sexual health research and policy organization, on statutory rape (sexual intercourse with a minor) and resulting pregnancies.
Some common reasons are medical, such as the severity of the condition, the life expectancy and quality of life for the affected person, and available treatment options for the condition.
It is often referred to as a tradition, perceived as the obvious thing to do when the male is ready for marriage.
The French government had not breached their duties under the Convention by not applying criminal penalties to the unintentional destruction of a foetus.
The bishops of the Anglican Communion expressed opposition to abortion at the 1930 Lambeth Conference.
§ 1462 are: An obscene article (to include the additions of 'a thing capable of producing sound' or a 'motion picture film').
At the time, the Trump administration could have attempted to ask the United States Court of Appeals to hear the case, but that seems to have never gone through.
I consider that it is not fair, just or reasonable to impose on the doctor or his employer liability for the consequential responsibilities, imposed on or accepted by the parents to bring up the child."Lord Hope held that the claim was entirely for economic loss, which is generally not recoverable.
O feto anencéfalo é biologicamente vivo, por ser formado por células vivas, e juridicamente morto, não gozando de proteção estatal.
Furthermore, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also requires protection of physical and mental integrity.
The court decided that the first of these questions can be sidestepped by means of the second question.
Plot The movie tells the story of a middle aged Muslim woman Gazala (Shabana Azmi), who is ill-treated by her husband and sent back to her parents’ home, just because she is unable to give birth to a son.
Alonge escaped custody during the 2020 #EndSARS jailbreak and was re‑arrested in May 2024, after which BHI called for stronger custodial safeguards.
However, 15% (58,000 abortions) reported safe despite lack of clear survey from private and public hospitals.
Her work focuses on constitutional law, gender equality, and sexual and reproductive health rights in Africa.
This 1868 law enabled local magistrate judges to issue warrants allowing police to seize and later destroy (upon a guilty verdict) materials ruled "obscene".
King Baudouin's letter on the issue, to his then Prime Minister, Wilfried Martens, is displayed in the BELvue Museum in Brussels.
A specific and insurance-dependent rule of tort liability cannot, and should not, be created by the courts.
In December 2024, Walker, a pregnant woman in Texas with chronic hypertension and a history of severe pregnancy complications, repeatedly sought care as her condition worsened, including seizures and blood clots.
See also Canadian labour law List of Supreme Court of Canada cases References External links Full text of Supreme Court of Canada decision at LexUM and CanLII
Historically, access to abortion in Sub-Saharan Africa has created controversy amongst some members of the public and its healthcare professionals, due to existing religious practices and traditional beliefs.
North Korean refugees repatriated from China Forced abortions and infanticide are used as a form of punishment in prison camps.
PMC's headquarters staff and offices are located throughout the United States and abroad, including Los Angeles, Montreal, and Cape Town, with the primary office located in South Burlington, Vermont.
Between 2013 and 2016, plaintiffs—three married couples—underwent IVF treatment at a clinic operated by the Center for Reproductive Medicine.
Roberts also concludes that this choice, along with the choice to have a relationship with the child, must be respected by the state and by society, which does not happen to Black women who are often subject to government interference during their parenthood.
She is married to Jim Johnson, the Corporation Counsel of the City of New York and a former candidate for New Jersey governor.
He traced many of those overestimates back to a 1972 conference at which non-paternity rates as high as 30% were discussed.
Among other provisions, it allowed workplace discrimination victims redress in the less costly and more accessible state court system, rather than in federal court.
Ideologically, the Hippocratic Oath and the medical mentality of that age to defend the value of human life as an absolute also played a significant role in molding opinions about abortion.
Studies report that a growing share of abortions occur via telehealth channels; one 2024 analysis estimated ~19% of U.S.
is commonly lauded as a victory for women's rights, but it did not grant absolute autonomy of a woman against procedures ordered by the state.
Monica Das Gupta (2005) observes, from 1989 birth data for China, there was no evidence of selective abortion of female fetuses among firstborn children.
This constitutional protection makes it more challenging for future legislatures to enact laws that would restrict access to these services.
The intersectionality of social, economic, and health disparities further exacerbates their vulnerability to the impacts of climate change.
Early life and education Northup was born in Kokomo, Indiana in 1960 and grew up in Texas, California and New York.
The founders were Gary Laderman, a religion studies scholar from Emory University; Linell Cady, a religion studies scholar from Arizona State University; and Evan Derkacz, a journalist who formerly wrote for AlterNet.
This would be part of draft legislation aimed at reinforcing "French secular values" and combating "Islamist separatism".
by stating that it left open the possibility that a non-consenting patient's interest would yield to a more compelling countervailing interest in an "extremely rare and truly exceptional case." The court then held this case to be such.
The phrase entered the popular lexicon after a 2001 tabloid scandal involving Boris Becker and a resulting headline in Bild: War es Samenraub?
History Latina Roundtable on Health and Reproductive Rights was founded in New York City by a group of Latina organizers in October 1989.
The stated rationale behind the legislation was to prevent sterilisation from becoming a contraceptive method in the hands of the individual.
Rivkin-Fish then turns to Soviet health experts' strategies for reducing abortion from the 1950s through the late 1980s.
Because of the lack of translators, and the fact that conferences were labeled as of concern to developed or developing nations, in-depth discussion was difficult and often barely touched the surface of issues.
Recognizing that legal changes alone could not ensure equality, the general discussion agreed that developmental programs made available to both urban and rural women must include women in all decision-making levels, from planning to implementation and analysis, and must provide adequate training.
Though women wish for safe abortions, fears of legal and social repercussions may lead to more unsafe abortions.
During oral arguments, several justices indicated that the court "does not seem to be the right forum–at least for now." It could not settle medical issues, such as whether any contraceptives to be made available were actually abortifacients.
It can be induced (see Definitions, Terminology, and Reference Resources) through a pharmacological or a surgical procedure, or it may be spontaneous (also called miscarriage)." "Definitions of abortion vary across and within countries as well as among different institutions.
The court held that a cesarean section at the end of a full-term pregnancy was here deemed to be medically necessary by doctors to avoid a substantial risk that the fetus would die during delivery due to uterine rupture.
Regulation (EC) No 1567/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2003 on aid for policies and actions on reproductive and sexual health and rights in developing countries.
She then filed a complaint with the Ohio Civil Rights Commission, claiming that the non-renewal of the contract was sexual discrimination under ORC 4112.02A, and that the termination was in violation of 4112.02I.
For example, when amendments to propose changes in the term limit (of 24 weeks of gestation) were put forward in Parliament in 2008, 17 Labour MPs voted for a 12-week limit, 19 MPs for a 16-week limit, 43 MPs for a 20-week limit, and 60 MPs for a 22-week limit.
Gillman criticized the statistical analysis and research methodology of Laughlin's work, arguing that there were rudimentary statistics errors, as well as selection bias.
However, women have shown interest in a second child if the first child did not possess the desired gender.
Clinic access Netherlands Abortion was criminalised in the Netherlands in 1911; nonetheless, a demand for terminating pregnancies remained, and an illegal abortion market grew.
delegation would walk out of Nairobi if the Zionism-equals-racism resolution was included in the final conference declaration." Tannenbaum also convinced the United States Senate to condemn the conference resolution and demand its withdrawal.
Political advocacy Roberts has been a vocal critic of global injustices, often drawing connections between racial oppression in the U.S.
Background details In March 1984, Mary Beth Whitehead responded to an ad placed by the Infertility Center of New York in the Asbury Park Press seeking women willing to help infertile couples have children.
In both cases the defendant’s negligence does not make the fulfillment of the parent’s will physically impossible, but instigates a decision that turns out to be inconsistent with such will.
The default and immediately forcing juridical assumption of paternity of a husband was not changed in the latest 2015 act.
Sierra Leone's Safe Abortion Act was passed by its parliament in 2015 and 2016, but the president refused to sign it.
The document addresses the unique problems Indigenous women suffer in addition to those suffered by Indigenous men, which include erosion of culture (and gender roles therein), loss of traditional land, and compromised identity and status in the spaces they inhabit.
This confusion led to her doctors attempting to remove a non-existent coil from her uterus, but in the process damaging her foetus.
Kalantry is the author of Court on Trial: A Data-Driven Account of the Indian Supreme Court (2022), and Women’s Human Rights and Migration: Sex-Selective Abortion Laws in the United States and India (2017).
Nova Scotia: 50-metre buffer zones around healthcare facilities under the Protecting Access to Reproductive Health Care Act.
He was eventually appointed as an expert eugenics agent to the Committee on Immigration and Naturalization (the 1924 law applied national-origin quotas on immigrants, which stopped the large Italian and Russian influx of the early 1900s).
The plot revolves around Gazala's stay at her mother's home and the problems faced by the women of the house, namely her mother and sisters-in-law.
Michigan Abortion is legal in Michigan, although a physician's approval is needed after fetal viability.
Invention Crane took matters into her own hands and went to her home in New York to begin working on her prototype.
The financial consequences are significant, in that recruiting and training new OB-GYNs are costly endeavors.
The success rate of in vitro fertilisation remains unchanged regardless of whether the sperm was retrieved from a living or dead donor.
Despite such harsh condemnation, the penalty for abortion is the withholding of water libations from the woman; while the abortionist may lose caste and, with it, opportunity for liberation from samsara.
Background Dorothy Roberts wrote Killing the Black Body during her time as a law professor at Rutgers University, where she studied issues of gender, race, and class.
Porter Lillis hailed the research in a review for Journal of Social Work Values and Ethics: "The book is an excellent, thoroughly researched text, particularly in respect to case law and case histories.
Although the practice was outlawed in 2013, bride kidnapping continues to exist, with destructive consequences for society.
Researchers have picked up on this phenomenon, and have sought to identify news outlets articulate how people discuss DTC GT.
Activities Activities include two podcasts: OVERSHOOT | Shrink toward abundance and Beyond Pronatalism | Finding fulfillment, with or without kids, classroom and conference presentations, academic publications, and media and podcast interviews.
While the royal harem existed also during the Umayyad era, it was during the Abbasid era that it became fully segregated.
Snopes: First Knight - A discussion of the droit du seigneur, or the 'right of the lord.' Jus primae nochttps://web.archive.org/tis.
The states retain the power to decide for themselves what prenatal legal protection they would adopt under CRC.
torture of terrorist suspects is a tool to maintain supremacy just as violence has been used to maintain white supremacy.
A physician may perform a sterilization procedure on a patient if the patient is capable of giving informed consent, the patient consents to the procedure in writing, and the physician explains the consequences of the procedure and alternative methods of contraception.
It is for this reason that departurism holds that just as it ought to be illicit for M to send F fatally off into the wild blue yonder, it ought also to be illicit for a mother to kill, or otherwise unjustifiably maim, the unwanted fetus in her womb by eviction.
These four fields include sexual health, sexual rights, reproductive health and reproductive rights.
For example, Delaware, which is generally supportive of abortion rights, saw 44% of residents obtain their abortions in neighboring states.
Nazi Germany During World War II, abortion policy in Nazi Germany varied depending on the people, group, and territory the policy was directed at, as German women were forbidden to have an abortion.
pro-choice dichotomy, both departurism and its libertarian counterpoint, evictionism address the challenges posed by emerging reproductive technologies—such as artificial wombs, fetal transfer, and gestational outsourcing....
In the 1930s, Margaret Sanger and the National Committee on Federal Legislation for Birth Control lobbied Congress to revise this law, but were unsuccessful.
The author places these developments within broader global trends of illiberal backlash against reproductive rights, suggesting that efforts to control women's reproductive autonomy constitute a transnational phenomenon requiring transnational responses.
In 2013 and 2014, Marshall introduced the Justice for Victims of Sterilization Act to give compensation for up to $50,000 per person; however, the bill did not get past the Appropriations committee in either year.
In 2019, in partnership with five organisations in four countries, ASN launched Abortion Without Borders to help people in Poland access abortions.
Three days into her court-ordered confinement, Burton underwent an emergency C-section, at which time the fetus was found to be dead.
Development of the term In 1989, radical feminist Andrea Dworkin wrote in a book introduction about "war on women" and, in 1997, she collected that and other writings in Life and Death, for which the subtitle was Unapologetic Writings on the Continuing War Against Women.
Ferraro was criticized by name by Cardinal John O'Connor, the Catholic Archbishop of New York, and James Timlin, the Bishop of Scranton, for misrepresenting the Catholic Church's position on abortion.
Many organizations, such as The Center For Reproductive Health Education in Family Medicine, draw from them.
His counsel said "It should go without saying that the public may not use individuals' gametes without their consent.
Education Goodwin received her Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1992, with a triple major in sociology, anthropology, and African languages & literature.
Marine energy management is the application of systematic methods to measure, register and analyze the energy usage of oceangoing vessels in specific.
Private Power and Infrastructure Board The Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB) was created in 1994 to promote private sector participation in the power sector of Pakistan.
See also Community solar farm Community wind energy Economic democracy RAPS Soft energy path Wadebridge Renewable Energy Network a solar farm entity in Aus/ NZ; who create and facilitate co-op owned community renewable energy farms.
The Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA) is a group of 188 countries, cities, regions and organisations aiming to accelerate the coal phase-out of coal-fired power stations, except the very few which have carbon capture and storage.
Johnson Texas Railroad Commission United States energy law References External links Official Central Texas Electric Cooperative website
With more traffic potentially taking the route around the Cape of Good Hope, and ships needing to fuel along the African coast, some ports such as Walvis Bay, Cape Town, and Durban may come under increased pressure, but also benefit from the diversion.
This required, upon written notice from the National Environment Agency, to report annual waste data and submit waste reduction plans.
The organization began with 16 founding member countries and has since expanded to 31, with the latest addition being Lithuania in 2022.
While, as per Khan et al., developing VO2 is difficult, their review found that "recent research has focused on simplifying and improving the expansion of techniques for different types of applications".
Trudeau’s proposed plans for the Constitution Act of 1982; he argued against granting Ontario and Quebec veto powers, fought for provincial resource rights and insisted on the notwithstanding clause.
Some cities and landmarks took the opportunity to make more long-term adjustments to their everyday power consumption.
See also Footnotes External links ECCM Study for rail, road and air journeys between main UK cities Traction Summary Report 2007– Prof.
Example: New UK nuclear plants cost £92.50/MWh, whereas offshore wind farms in the UK are supported with €74.2/MWh at a price of £150 in 2011 falling to £130 per MWh in 2022.
According to the OECD Economic Survey of Norway 2010, the nation "has announced a target for 2008–12 10% below its commitment under the Kyoto Protocol and a 30% cut compared with 1990 by 2020." In 2012, EU-15 emissions was 15.1% below their base year level.
This is planned in countries such as Denmark and Israel; however, some countries, such as Israel, have no legislation on the subject.
This plan is accompanied by supporting funding for infrastructure and ZEV rebates totaling $10 billion.
Methods and techniques Design techniques include: Shade with trees Planting trees for the purpose of providing shade, which reduces cooling costs.
At the same time, a Transport Ministerial conference was held, resulting in a formal announcement on 14 November, supporting the framework of the EU TRACECA programme.
LCEC also receives support from the European Union through a contract signed with the Central Bank of Lebanon.
In 2024, COGEN Europe reported a turnover of approximately €410,000, of which €107,756 came from EU grants.
The Centre for Research on Energy Security (CeRES) is an Indian research center housed at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) focusing on Indian relations to energy and consequences on itself and the world, diplomatically, economically and socially.
Iranian Oil Terminals Company Pars Special Economic Zone Naftiran Intertrade Company (Nico) Iran fuel conservation optimization company Revenues from crude oil Iran's total revenues from the sale of oil amounted to $77 billion in Iranian year 1387 (2008–09).
Criticism and limitations Critics argue that energy justice may lack conceptual clarity due to its interdisciplinary nature and normative foundations.
WorldWideENERGY.org (WWE) After the previous ETDE consortium ended in 2014, the WWE application allowed ETDEWEB and other content to remain accessible, thanks to remaining funds and former member country support.
History Announced on June 24, 2009, Microsoft Hohm was built on the Windows Azure cloud operating system.
History The ministry was originally established in 1978, where petroleum and energy affairs were transferred from the Ministry of Industry.
When the computer is turned on the RAM is restored and the computer is exactly as it was before entering hibernation.
The white certificate concept is an offshoot of the more mature renewable energy credit or "green tag" trading.
This organization created the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating system, which is a certification process that provides verification that a building is environmentally sustainable.
Energy justice frameworks are increasingly applied in the context of global energy transition and climate change mitigation to address inequalities in access to affordable, reliable, and clean energy services .
Thermal energy is often recovered from liquid or gaseous waste streams to fresh make-up air and water intakes in buildings, such as for the HVAC systems, or process systems.
They were concerned that the Strategic Energy Efficiency and Renewables Reserve would be used for "politically connected pet projects," citing a similar fund created by the Carter administration that went bankrupt after only a few years.
Strategic crude oil storages are at three underground locations in Mangaluru, Visakhapatnam and Padur (Udupi, Karnataka).
Concentrating Solar Power - supports the development of novel CSP technologies that will lower cost, increase efficiency, and improve reliability compared to current state-of-the-art technologies.
These polymers have high concentrations of tiny pores, which scatter light effectively at the boundary between the polymer and the air.
It is based on the latest BP Statistical Review of World Energy and establishes an IOGP Production Indicator© (PI) – the level at which a region is able to meet its own oil or gas demand – for seven regions across the world.
In 2008 the global price of oil plummeted from $145 /barrel to $32/barrel and many energy projects left the province or were shut down in Alberta.
References External links IOGP website EPSG Geodetic Parameter online Registry Archived 2020-08-09 at the Wayback Machine
Of this 33 billion, €30.9 billion was used to advance climate action and energy transformation, while the remaining €2.1 billion was used to cover indirect carbon costs.
The effort has been part of a wider effort by the groups involved to bring attention to environmental issues.
The Iranian Revolution and the subsequent 1979 oil shock led to a sudden reduction in oil available on the market.
The decrease was composed of a $5 billion per year decrease in gas royalty partially offset by increases in oil royalty and oil sands royalty.
As 2016 continued, the oil glut was partially trimmed with significant production offline in the United States, Canada, Libya, Nigeria and China, and the basket price gradually rose back into the $40s.
The department was established on 1 July 2022, superseding the water and environment functions from the Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment and energy functions from the Department of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources.
Energy Democracy began in western Europe between 2000 and 2010 and has become a worldwide practice and point of reference except Asia.
Jordan Jordan has strategic oil reserves equal to 60 days of consumption or 6,240,000 barrels (992,000 m3).
PPIB facilitates investors in establishing private power projects and related infrastructure, executes Implementation Agreement (IA) with Project Sponsors and issues sovereign guarantees on behalf of government.
Function The competences of MOE are as follows: Drawing and implementing studies, plans, and policies for ensuring the optimum exploitation of oil and gas wealths.
Accordingly, all that can be expected is that the techniques and disciplines used to ensure safety are enough to reduce accidents to acceptable rates.
oil needs via a major domestic biofuels industry, which could result in an economic boost for the rural regions that would supply the plant material for biofuels.
Any vehicle space consumed by a larger size of accumulator vessel may be offset by the need for a smaller sized charging engine, in HP and physical size.
The regulations state that "The associated hydraulic fracturing will not take place within protected groundwater source areas".
Co-operation with other bodies IOGP also represent the interests of the upstream industry before international regulators and legislators in UN bodies such as the International Maritime Organization and the Commission for Sustainable Development.
The very early developments in this direction started in the late 1950s and early 1960s in the United States and Sweden.
The initial goal set forth by the SunShot Initiative is to reduce carbon emissions to 20% of what they were at their highest recorded levels in 1990, by 2050.
Insulated pipes (called also preinsulated pipes or bonded pipe ) are widely used for district heating and hot water supply.
These sources shall not merely be for a limited period which shall be exhausted over a span of time but the pollution caused by them shall also contaminate the surrounding environmental components such as soil, air and water.
The nonbusiness energy property credit expired on December 31, 2017, but was retroactively extended for tax years 2018 and 2019 on December 20, 2019 as part of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (2020 United States federal budget).
Rosenfeld’s main motivation for improving energy efficiency was to save money as well as save resources such as oil, gas, and forests for future generations.
On this occasion, the Ministerial Council also established a High Level Reflection Group, which was mandated to assess the adequacy of the institutional set up and working methods of the Energy Community in achieving the objectives of the Treaty.
These country policy reviews are typically conducted every five years for member countries, and cover the full range of the country's energy systems and policies, with recent reports placing particular focus on progress towards reaching climate goals.
The outer ring demonstrate a life cycle of the energy system with starting with extraction of resources necessary for supply, the production of energy, operation and supply which refers to the disbursement of energy, consumption and then finally decomissioning and waste management.
Emergency oil sharing agreements Several countries have agreements to share their stockpiles with other countries in the event of an emergency.
National targets The following table lists the indicative targets for each of the 15 original member states, and for comparison the share of renewable electricity in 1997 as well.
By December 7, 1935, forty-five lawsuits on behalf of more than 100 companies had been filed in 13 different U.S.
In the past, the IEA has been criticized by environmental groups for underplaying the role of renewable energy technologies in favor of nuclear and fossil fuels.
However, the uneven distribution of fossil fuel supplies among countries, and the critical need to widely access energy resources, has led to significant vulnerabilities.
The State Committee for Power and Electrification was upgraded to ministerial status (union-republic) in 1965; changed to all-union on 17 July 1987.
Driving style and weather conditions can be accounted for by using the achieved range instead of the advertised range for the calculation.
Divest Harvard Divest Harvard is an organization at Harvard University that seeks to compel the university to divest from fossil fuel companies.
Foreign Service in 1978 and his early assignments included Vienna, Austria; Baghdad, Iraq; Johannesburg, South Africa; and Sana'a, Yemen.
The main focus of this research trip was to learn about the economics and reliability of the technology.
It included an introductory paper browsing the issues of concern and collect a series of technical documents, namely those produced within the ASIEPI project as well as within the SAVE-DUCT and AIRWAYS projects.
The introduction of mandatory renewable energy targets is one important way in which governments can encourage the wider use of renewables.
The purpose of this initiative is to support the development of the ESCO working in the energy audit business and provide them with the suitable financial, fiscal and technical incentives to remove all the obstacles hindering their growth.
A teardrop trailer is an aerodynamically shaped semi-trailer with a curved-roof that differs in shape from the traditional rectangularly shaped trailer.
governments signed a memorandum of understanding in which the Spanish Ministry of Housing committed to organise and host a Solar Decathlon in Europe.
While some groups and parties such as the AfD again tried to overturn them, others such as the Greens advocated for a national phaseout of diesel cars by 2030.
Legislative background In 1955 Monroney's Senate Interstate and Foreign Commerce subcommittee investigated dealer practices that hid a car's true price behind inflated "list" figures and undisclosed fees.
Prepare studies and plans which the process of development required and modernization of the ministry and with a view to keeping pace with The developments oil industry and mineral resources in the world.
In the warmer months the previously heated water is taken from the short-term storage tank to the Borehole Thermal Energy Storage (BTES).
In addition to overall building standards the code defines the Climate Zones used in building, shown in this picture.
Some methods of reducing emissions of the industry include lowering speeds of shipping (which can be potentially problematic for perishable goods) as well as changes to fuel standards.
The Uranium Mill Tailings Remedial Action (UMTRA) Project was created by the United States Department of Energy (DOE) to monitor the cleanup of uranium mill tailings, a by-product of the uranium concentration process that poses risks to the public health and environment.
Coordination among the institutions, and enterprises of the ministry, and work to resolve all differences.
Specific rules and regulations A common definition is that the vehicle must have been left on private or public property for a minimum duration (≥ 24 hours) or it hasn't been reclaimed after being impounded after a minimum number of days.
Microsoft Hohm was an online web application by Microsoft that enabled consumers to analyze their energy usage and provided energy saving recommendations.
Indicator 7.2.1: Department of Economic and Social Affairs-Statistics Division (DESA/UNDP), International Energy Agency (IEA) and International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA).
A hard but flexible layer of rigid foam is then created and seals all the tiles to each other and to the steel structure.
According to EN 253:2019 & EN 15698-1:2019, pipes must be produced to work at constant temperature of 120 °C (248 °F) for 30 years.
Businesses and analysts criticised the uncertainty this caused for investors, notably Balfour Beatty and Ernst & Young.
In 2016, newly elected president Htin Kyaw combined Ministry of Electric Power and Ministry of Energy as Ministry of Electricity and Energy.
One of the key benefits of the EPI investment mechanism to the end beneficiary is that they only pay a proportion of the value achieved resulting in a reduction in their energy costs.
The savings in energy costs are often used to pay back the capital investment of the project over a five to twenty years period or reinvested into the building to allow the capital upgrades that may otherwise be unfeasible.
The Ministry of Energy and Electrification (Minenergo; Russian: Министерство энергетики и электрификации СССР) was a government ministry in the Soviet Union.
Transparency, comprehensibility, and reproducibility The use of open energy-system models and open energy data represents one attempt to improve the transparency, comprehensibility, and reproducibility of energy system models, particularly those used to aid public policy development.
This results in less energy being used, less money being spent, and less demand for new resources to be created.
These enable performance comparison between different parts of a company and between participating companies.
Microsoft's Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows 10 and Windows 11 employ a type of hibernation (Fast Startup) by default when shutting down.
EN 253 describes "District heating pipes - Bonded single pipe systems for directly buried hot water networks - Factory made pipe assembly of steel service pipe, polyurethane thermal insulation and a casing of polyethylene".
There is an ongoing significant construction boom in Finland based on old and high energy demand construction standards since the energy cost payment is paid by the users and future generations but not the construction industry nor its leaders early retirement payrolls.
It has been a generally accepted principle that, given these constraints, MELs could not be cost-effectively monitored or managed by means other than product selection decisions and occupant conservation methods.
The Bush administration considers the passage of the law a benchmark for the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.
The fossil fuel system is global and requires a global solution—a solution the Leaders' Climate Summit must work towards.
History and profile The ministry was established on 12 March 2010 and is the successor of the ministry of energy and mineral resources.
This figure is expected to rise to 6.5 million b/d by 2022, since Baghdad and the oil companies have agreed to boost crude-oil production in the country.
Committees Committee of Atomic and Energy Supervision and Control of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan; Committee of Environmental Regulation and Control of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (transferred to the new ministry).
See also List of energy storage projects References External links Drake Landing Solar Community Retrieved on September 30, 2009 Drake Landing Solar Community: Workings Retrieved on September 30, 2009
Semi-trailer aerodynamic devices are devices affixed to semi-trailers, for the purpose of reducing aerodynamic drag caused by air turbulence.
His quest for the right candidate(s) to take over the newspaper stretched around the world, gathering more than 140 applicants from half a dozen countries.
Four Deputy Assistant Secretaries also oversee different divisions of the bureau, namely Energy Diplomacy, Energy Transformation, Energy Governance and Access, and Bureau Implementation and Coordination.
The ratings are based on EPA's formula, in which 33.7 kWh (121 MJ) of electricity is equivalent to one (U.S.) gallon of gasoline, and the energy consumption of each vehicle during EPA's five standard drive cycle tests simulating varying driving conditions.
It originally included some experimental evacuated-tube solar panels, but they were not needed and were later removed.
The people of Mumbai also observed such a programme, added the group." Appeal to switch off lamps for eight minutes today Archived 2011-07-18 at the Wayback Machine Aug.
In a joint ruling issued in May 2011 the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and EPA established the new requirements for a fuel economy and environment label that is mandatory for all new passenger cars and trucks starting with model year 2013.
Better networking between districts and the capital district is also an incentive for communities to adopt this concept.
It is one of the oldest virtual energy discussion fora for discussion, sharing of insights and intelligence of relevant issues related in a significant way to oil, gas and energy issues: Policy, legislation, contracting, security strategy, climate change related to energy.
Brick or stone masonry reinforced with steel bars can be utilized for walls that will be subjected to lateral or vertical pressure from earth cover.
It was created on January 27, 1987, in Lagos, Nigeria, to serve as a platform for cooperation and harmonization of efforts, collaboration, sharing of knowledge and skills among African oil producing countries.
The International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) is a building code created by the International Code Council in 2000.
The tokens can be used to pay electricity bills, buy energy-efficient appliances and take public transport.
He subsequently worked as a stringer in the London bureau of Newsweek in the early 2000s, where he reported and wrote on a range of stories in the United Kingdom and Western Europe.
The negotiations took place between the European Community on one side, and Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, FYR of Macedonia, Republic of Montenegro, Serbia, Romania, Turkey and UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo on the other side.
In 2022, the United States Department of Energy started purchasing uranium to establish a federal reserve of domestically produced material.
The platform's main activities include producing and disseminating policy-oriented publications, networking among local or national airtightness associations, and organizing conferences, workshops and webinars.
The Ministry of Energy is the government ministry of Tanzania which is responsible for facilitating the development of the energy sectors.
Eventually, the Sharif administration entered in successful negotiation with China for the construction of the Chashma Nuclear Power Plant in 1993.
Other occupational stressors include heat, stifling uniforms and poor-quality food served in the company mess.
Campaign organisation The campaign was started by Exnora International, a non-governmental organisation in India.
2) To create awareness among masses about the importance, benefits and methods of conserving petroleum products & clean environment by enhancing information and capacity building.
According to energy blogger Ron Patterson, the peak of world oil production was probably around 2010.
Wall Street Journal, January 14, 2009 U.S.-United Arab Emirates Memorandum of Understanding on Nuclear Energy Cooperation, State Department Resources on the United Arab Emirates Nuclear Energy Program Archived 2015-12-08 at the Wayback Machine Voice of America News, December 12, 2008
OPEC bargained with the dominant oil companies (the Seven Sisters), but OPEC faced coordination problems among its members.
Grant Shapps, the final secretary of state for the old department, became the first Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero.
To get precise results from an efficiency calculation, all the data associated with the data center must be included.
In tests done in their laboratory in 2004 they found no improvement in engine efficiency or fuel economy.
However, access was also available through commercial online hosts, and some countries offered their own products for access.
Renewable technologies can enhance energy security in electricity generation, heat supply, and transportation.
An oil clique is a social clique or a network of powerful individuals and institutions that are involved in the petroleum industry.
A 2014 paper outlines the modeling challenges ahead as energy systems become more complex and human and social factors become increasingly relevant.
There are several voluntary programs that require a minimum airtightness level for the building envelope (Passivhaus, Minergie-P, Effinergie etc.).
One of the tools most commonly used for this is the CUSUM, which is the CUmulative SUM of differences.
17) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which consolidated arrangements for the licensing, operation and abandonment of offshore installations and pipelines.
Solar Process Heat (Task 64), Solar Energy in Industrial Water and Wastewater (Task 62), Solar Process Heat for Production and Advanced Applications (Task 49), Solar Heat for Industrial Process (Task 33) solar district heating, e.g.
Furthermore, the greater interconnectedness of networks has allowed for markets to be more able to respond to peak energy demand and thereby increase the security of energy networks.
Required information Manufacturers must affix the label to a side window or windshield before the vehicle leaves the factory.
The PSA shall issue statements to its superior government ministry regarding matters which are under consideration and provide assistance to the ministry when requested.
Cekuta testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on September 17, 2014, and was confirmed on December 16.
The CETF stated its primary goals include managing telecommunication mergers and helping strengthen the broadband Internet infrastructure of California, with saving energy an indirect result of its procedures.
The broader term negawatt was popularized by experimental physicist Amory Lovins in 1985, who argued that utility companies should "sell efficiency" rather than just electricity.
Symens, Presentation at the Model-Driven Development Day, May 9, 2012, 's-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands "Towards a mechatronic compiler," H.
The Ministry of Energy and Minerals (MEM) is the governmental body in the Sultanate of Oman responsible for developing and implementing the government policy for exploiting the oil and gas resources in Oman.
Indeed, at a deep enough point underground, the temperature remains constant year round, and this temperature is approximately the mean of summer and winter temperatures.
REPEAT REPEAT stands for Rapid Energy Policy Evaluation and Analysis Toolkit and is a policy assessment energy model.
The delegation of Azerbaijan had a meeting with Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud, during which cooperation in the energy sector was discussed.
This led to persistent fuel shortages, strikes by government workers, and a worsening economic environment.
History Central Texas Electric Cooperative was formed in 1947 as a split-off from neighboring Pedernales Electric Cooperative.
Decathletes from 17 Teams spent 10 days competing in the Villa Solar near the Royal Palace of Madrid (Palacio Real).
Nogaholding was intended to concentrate and refocus NOGA's oil, gas, and petrochemical development activities.
Currently the cooperative has almost 7,000 miles of line, serving over 46,000 meters in the Texas Hill Country counties of Blanco, Gillespie, Kendall, Kerr, Kimble, Llano, Mason, McCulloch, Menard, Real, and San Saba.
The company's stated objective is to demonstrate the operational viability of electric aircraft and support the development of charging infrastructure at regional aerodromes.
Another publication: “Methods and techniques for airtight buildings” was released in 2012, with an overview to the design principles and construction methods for building airtightness.
JBPS publishes articles of the highest quality that are original, cutting-edge, well-researched and of significance to the international community.
Research staff survey market trends and activities, analyze technical and economic potential for energy efficiency, seek to understand consumer energy decisions, and assess the potential for regulations, policies, and programs to achieve energy savings.
Now in the 21st century, building energy performance standards are pushing towards a zero carbon standard in old and new buildings alike.
The SunShot Initiative is a federal government program run by the US Department of Energy's Solar Energy Technologies Office.
That December, the Paris Agreement was adopted at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21) and the Agency transitioned into direct advocacy for the shipping industry to adopt greener alternatives to hydrocarbon fuels.
This updated IRP envisaged that the first new nuclear power plant would only need to be online by 2041.
Its functions were split into three new departments: the Department for Business and Trade, the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero, and the Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology.
Power Information Technology Company (PITC) PITC (Power Information Technology Company) is a leading public sector IT organization in Pakistan, operating under the Ministry of Energy (Power Division).
The water, energy and food pillars within this index are equally weighted, thus emphasizing the multi-centric nature of this framework.
Required LEED Levels for Select Colleges These are 10 colleges all around the US determined to build for a sustainable future.
A budget made of €1.6 billion of ordinary credits and €1.15 billion of alternative financing is devoted to the implementation of the measures, for the whole 2010-2014 period.
Throughout his career, he was a counselor and lobbyist for both domestic and international oil and gas companies, as well as companies focusing on renewable energy.
The state's installed capacity reached the 10,000 MW target in early 2010, 15 years ahead of schedule.
The Energy Star program is the largest certifier of low-energy homes and consumer products in the U.S.
Dehumidifying Drying – These types of dryers circulate hot and de-humidified dry air onto the resin, suck the air back, dry it and then pump again in a closed loop operation.
However, The European Commission monitors the progress of the member states of the European Union – and will, if necessary, propose mandatory targets for those who miss their goals.
In another move, ENEL also bought 66% of the Slovak Electric utility that operates six nuclear reactors.
Effectiveness Studies based both on modelling and experiments have demonstrated modest improvements in energy losses through the walls of houses through this method.
The second is to reduce the vast amount of waste created when cars reach the end of their life cycle – as older cars or those written off after a road traffic accident are typically scrapped.
However, organisations that are looking to make their systems more energy efficient to support them on their journey to reducing their carbon emissions, may consider making changes to the way their systems run.
Dynamic frequency scaling almost always appears in conjunction with dynamic voltage scaling, since higher frequencies require higher supply voltages for the digital circuit to yield correct results.
Substituting saved natural gas for oil in uses where they’re interchangeable, such as furnaces and boilers (pp.
It bills itself as a national effort to support solar energy adoption in order to make solar energy affordable for all Americans.
The curved shape of the roof decreases aerodynamic drag by smoothing airflow over the top, thus improving fuel efficiency.
The Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (DESNZ) is a ministerial department of the Government of the United Kingdom.
Oktober 2007 gültig) (in German) Informationen zur EnEV 2009 (in German) Info Portal Energieeinsparung: Novellierungsverfahren des Energieeinsparrechts (in German) BEE: Klimaneutral und kosteneffizient die EnEV 2016 erfüllen.
In the attempt to control the leakage power, high-k metal-gates and power gating have been common methods.
Fuel economy for CAFE purposes include an incentive adjustment for alternative fuel vehicles and plug-in electric vehicles which results in higher MPGe than those estimated for window stickers.
This investment model is similar in principle to an Energy Performance Contract (EPC) but with the exception that no guarantees are made as to the level of energy savings.
Manning led the Social Credit to a fourth term in government, increasing its share of the popular vote further above the 50% mark it had set in the 1944 election.
Other private reserves of petroleum products for an additional 130,000,000 barrels (21,000,000 m3) The state-controlled reserves and the privately held stockpiles total about 470 million barrels by 2026 (583,000,000 barrels (92,700,000 m3) in 2002).
This air leakage is driven by differential pressures across the building envelope due to the combined effects of stack, external wind and mechanical ventilation systems.
He argued that if we are heading for some kind of disaster, it makes sense to use technology to combat this.
Klaus Savier won the 2009 Fuelventure 400 in a VariEze aircraft which got 45 mpg‑US (5.2 L/100 km; 54 mpg‑imp) at 207 mph (333 km/h) with a modified Continental O-200 engine upgraded with a computerized fuel injection and ignition system by Light Speed Engineering.
These options are summarised below: Option (A) Retrofit Isolation: Key Parameter Measurement Savings are determined by field measurement of the key performance parameter(s) which define the energy use of the energy conservation measure's (ECM) affected system(s) and/or the success of the project.
Although the industry was not a focus of attention of the Paris Climate Accord signed in 2016, the United Nations and the IMO have discussed CO2 emissions goals and limits.
It came into effect on May 1, 2004, and now governs the acquisition, use and disposal of mineral rights.
Current activities Regional SEM collaboratives have met in the Northwestern and Northeastern United States for several years, with interest expressed in other regions for similar collaborative forums.
Data showed that compliance entities were generally participating in lower numbers than expected, despite projections that there is an overall shortfall of allowances.
Following the repeal of Alberta's provincial fuel levy on May 30, 2019, the federal fuel charge system will be applied to Alberta beginning January 1, 2020.
The policy aims to integrate biodiversity considerations into all relevant sectors and decision-making processes.
The result of these phenomena was commonly known as a London particular or London fog; in a reversal of the idiom, "London particular" became the name for a thick pea and ham soup.
They argued that it could also pose a danger to the Ogallala Aquifer, the largest aquifer in western North America that supplies drinking water and irrigation to millions of people and agricultural businesses.
The Court found that the Senators had demonstrated irreparable harm per se by raising a substantial legal question as to whether the regulations constituted a tax requiring legislative approval as opposed to a regulatory fee.
The Asia-Pacific Emissions Trading Forum (AETF) was an information service and business network dealing with domestic and international developments in emissions trading policy in Australia and the Asia-Pacific region.
Joint Implementation (JI) is one of three flexibility mechanisms set out in the Kyoto Protocol to help countries with binding greenhouse gas emissions targets (the Annex I countries) meet their treaty obligations.
Challenges The mechanism of the carbon market in India can face challenges of corruption and environmental concerns.
Economic barriers to acceptance of renewable energy include local tax increases, increase in electricity rates, decrease in tourism, property value impacts and distributional inequality.
The Kicks made the North American debut on 29 November 2017 at the Los Angeles Auto Show and was slated to be on sale in June 2018.
Roger Ford, the technical editor of Modern Railways, often writes about similar themes and coined the phrase “Bionic duckweed".
He proposed the relocation of industry out of the city and the planting of massive gardens of "odiferous flowers" to "tinge the air" and thus mask the pollution.
Aims EELA hopes to reduce the GHG emissions of artisanal brick producers in the countries of operation by 30% and increase their income by 10%.
EBEX21 was established to assist landowners to retire or set aside marginally productive land and allow it to regenerate to create new areas of native forest.
As of 2025 a law has been passed but allowances not yet decided, and it has not yet clear whether the country will join the Cooperative Mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement.
Instead of a leaf blower, using a rake or broom will cut down on gas emissions that contribute to climate change.
Former voluntary scheme The former UK Emissions Trading Scheme was a voluntary emissions trading system created as a pilot prior to the mandatory EUETS.
Advisory board TCM's advisory board includes: Laura Dawn, former MoveOn.org creative director Paul Gilding, former Greenpeace International director Richard Heinberg, journalist and Post Carbon Institute senior fellow Marshall Herskovitz, film producer Dr.
It has a large portfolio of greenhouse gas emission reduction projects covering numerous countries and technologies.
Canada In the 2008 Canadian federal election, a carbon tax proposed by Liberal Party leader Stéphane Dion, known as the Green Shift, became a central issue.
GCC program framework GCC Program has developed the governance structure, systems, carbon registry and the documentation framework to facilitate the building of low-carbon economies.
This IPCC special report provides broader coverage of renewable energy than was included in the IPCC's 2007 climate change assessment report, as well as stronger renewable energy policy coverage.
In 2016, AIR-INK products were given to graphic artists in Hong Kong, which is known for its high air pollution, who were requested to paint murals.
In California, emissions requirements for automakers to be permitted to sell any vehicles in the state were expected to force 15% of new vehicles offered for sale between 2018 and 2025 to be zero emission.
The bill aimed to make the use of non-fossil fuel sources mandatory for energy and encourage feedstocks like green ammonia, green hydrogen, ethanol and biomass.
The Chicago Climate Action Plan (CCAP) is Chicago's climate change mitigation and adaptation strategy that was adopted in September 2008.
South Pole has provided services or provided offsets to major companies including Nestlé, Gucci, EY, Hilton, and ALDO Group.
In October 2021, Rolls-Royce announced that it will be fully electric by 2030, though in 2026, pulled back these plans due to a lack of demand.
In May 2008 DEFRA completed a feasibility study into TEQs, with the headline finding that "personal carbon trading has potential to engage individuals in taking action to combat climate change, but is essentially ahead of its time and expected costs for implementation are high".
International Day of Climate Action An "International Day of Climate Action" on October 24, 2009, was organized by 350.org to influence the delegates going to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meeting in December 2009 (COP15).
Organic matter that survives respiration and remineralization can be transported through sinking particles and organism migration to the deep ocean.
For use under the UNFCCC in connection with results-based payments, reference levels are submitted and undergo a technical assessment, and countries may update them over time using a stepwise approach as data and methods improve.
The Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB), under minister Barbara Hendricks, led the development of the plan.
On the reopening of the National Programme in Panama, Candido Mezua, President of COONAPIP said, "We feel satisfied that the process followed with ANAM will help us to correct issues, and COONAPIP is going to engage again in the Programme." He added, "It is time to trust again".
The Chennai office handles several value-added operations of the bank that were earlier handled only in its Washington, D.C., office.
Marginal abatement costs are also called the "marginal cost" of reducing such environmental negatives.
History The London Accord began in 2005, was launched formally in March 2007 and published its first results on 19 December 2007 launching them at a roll out meeting at Mansion House in London.
It is China's first integrated exchange for trading of environmental financial instruments TCX is a joint venture between Chicago Climate Exchange, the municipal government of Tianjin and the asset management unit of PetroChina, the country's largest oil and gas producer.
BC's rate of economic growth (measured as GDP) had kept pace with the rest of Canada's over that time.
This, the report explained, could be solved by optimizing usage of these sources by switching from coal to gas, by preventing methane leakages, and by stopping routine flaring.
Actions from tree-plantings to solar panel installations to huge electricity service-provider switching parties occurred in almost every country around the world.
Imagine if some Christian group in the US did that to gays, Muslims or anyone else they disagree with.
Blue Carbon's parent company agreed to transfer $1.5 billion to Zimbabwe, which is more than the country spends on education and childcare.
How it worked The PopOffsets web-project offered a step-by-step guide enabling contributors to make online donations to Population Matters, in order to support rights-based family planning schemes.
Readiness submissions and subsequent updates are considered through facility review and decision-making processes, with documented assessments used to summarise key issues raised during review and to inform next steps for country readiness work.
Similar to the AGF report, there are many high-profile reports; addressing climate finance sources with a focus on innovative sources.
This approach is a form of carbon capture and utilization (CCU) aimed at creating a circular carbon economy by transforming an atmospheric greenhouse gas into a feedstock for industrial processes.
Some critics have proposed this device will act similar to a diesel particulate filter, which has been shown to increase back pressure on the engine, thereby marginally affecting the efficiency of the engine, resulting in a loss of power, decreased mileage, and increased CO2 emissions.
The simplicity and immediacy of a carbon tax has been proven effective in British Columbia, Canada – enacted and implemented in five months.
Building operational efficiency has continued to improve such that the embodied carbon of the building now comprise a larger portion of the building's total emissions over its lifespan.
The reasons given for the shutdown are stricter European environmental regulations and the rising price of certificates in European emissions trading.
Voluntary Emission Reductions or Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are a type of carbon offset exchanged in the voluntary or over-the-counter market for carbon credits.
It announced its first round of funding in April 2014, awarding £28.8 million funding to projects worth £133 million, led by Cummins, Ford, GKN and JCB.
While the cap and trade system uses the high prices to control the amount of carbon emissions they do not provide a good incentive to limit carbon emission.
From February 2022, there was a heated debate about pausing the nuclear phase-out and restarting still operational reactors in order to better cope with the energy crisis caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Research and Development Direct air electrowinning is an active area of research, with several projects demonstrating its feasibility and working to improve its efficiency and scalability.
Withdrawal from RGGI On November 12, 2025, the Pennsylvania General Assembly passed a $50.1 billion budget bill after a 134-day stalemate.
One example of a Joint Implementation project resulting in an emission reduction unit, was the production of biogases by landfill sites.
The NZF would be the first global pricing mechanism for emissions, to be administered by the United Nations's International Maritime Organization.
This directive will require many large companies and companies with securities listed on EU-regulated markets to disclose a broad array of ESG information, including GHG emissions.
Huntsman was the second Republican governor to join, after California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The source of CO2 is the nearby Changling gas field, from which natural gas with about 22.5% is extracted.
The energy intensity of the global economy (the amount of energy consumed per unit of gross domestic product (GDP)) is a rough indicator of the energy efficiency of economic production.
If the pledges are accomplished, greenhouse gas emissions will fall by 2.6% - 3.7% more in comparison to the pledges before the summit.
It is also different from any monetary discount rate applied to a carbon infrastructure project, as this monetary rate would be subject to influence from other economic factors.
The campaign against Proposition 30 also produced a TV ad featuring Newsom, where he argued that the initiative was "a trojan horse that puts corporate welfare above the fiscal welfare of our entire state".
Shane Ardern, a National Party MP, drove a tractor up the steps of Parliament as part of a protest against the tax.
In 2025 experts said that the lack of clarity on allowances (caps) was hindering future decarbonization.
European Union In 2018, Denmark proposed an EU-wide prohibition on petrol and diesel cars, but that turned out to be contrary to EU regulations.
Verifiable reductions in GHG emissions are aggregated into 1 metric ton increments and they become personal Carbon Credits.
History On September 25, 2008, Tianjin Climate Exchange, co-established by CNPC Assets Management Co., Ltd.
2022: British media outlet Carbon Brief observed that 146 million carbon credits were retired from the four largest registries for carbon-offset projects in the voluntary market, indicating a substantial increase in the volume of retired credits within just three years.
Conversion efficiency of energy production Losses are incurred when energy is harvested from the natural resource from which it is derived, such as fossil fuels, radioactive materials, solar radiation or other sources.
Agricultural carbon market participants look forward to receiving credits for avoiding greenhouse gas emissions.
The fossil fuel system is global and requires a global solution—a solution the Leaders' Climate Summit must work towards.
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
Through the state mandate, CCAR established protocols to guide emissions inventories and manage an online reporting tool, the Climate Action Registry Reporting Tool (CARROT), to serve as a central database for emissions reports.
Other high emitting nations There was criticism that unless China and India adopted similar emissions standards, the impact on global climate would be insubstantial.
As of 2023, coal generation was almost twice as high as in 2000, even though it has fallen from its peak.
Because of their porosity, chemical stability and thermal resistance, ZIFs are being examined for their capacity to capture carbon dioxide.
References External links California Climate Credit at the California Public Utilities Commission California Climate Credit at the California Air Resources Board
It intends to capture and sequester 2 million tons of CO2 per year and increase this number in future years.
Removal Units were generated and issued by Kyoto Protocol Annex I Parties for carbon absorption by land use, land-use change, and forestry (LULUCF) activities such as reforestation.
Component Technologies Direct Air Capture Direct air capture (DAC) is a technology designed to extract CO2 directly from the ambient atmosphere, as opposed to capturing it from a point source like a factory flue stack.
On September 1, 2016, the California State Legislature passed a measure that urges the United States Congress to enact a tax on carbon-based fossil fuels.
An assigned amount unit was a tradable "Kyoto unit" or "carbon credit" representing an allowance to emit greenhouse gases comprising "one metric tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent, calculated using global warming potentials".
EPA's subsequent interpretive rulings expressly allow owners of new sources to obtain emission credits from other companies that operate facilities located in the same air quality control region.
Personal carbon credits are a new approach to GHG reduction strategies and as such there are no specific protocols existing today within the various certification standards, specifically, because personal carbon credits are so new.
A simplified example: an offer to receive $100 now or $110 in a year implies a 10% simple discount rate.
In June 2024, three carbon credit projects were suspended in the Brazilian Amazon after the police raids targeting Verra certified projects linked to a land-grabbing and illegal logging scam.
The theme of 2020 World Economic Forum annual meeting was "Stakeholders for a Cohesive and Sustainable World".
Many Independent Power Producers (IPPs) believe that this is much less than "fair market value", but have no alternative.
Traditional carbon credits are purchased by GHG emitters to offset the difference between their actual emissions and their allowable limit under a cap and trade type GHG reduction program or to reduce their total GHG emissions under a voluntary limit.
Funding The ticket only applied to local and regional transport, which is operated by the states of Germany and municipalities.
This plan includes three proposals: a long-term strategy, a mid-term strategy and launching a national campaign for achieving the Kyoto Protocol Target.
In 2009, studies have put forward a plan to power 100% of the world's energy with wind, hydroelectric, and solar power by the year 2030.
This trading of permits results in a marginal economic disincentive to the buyer and a marginal economic incentive the abater.
Some of the states that withdrew by late 2011 also intended to develop oil shale, hydraulic fracturing of natural gas and coal resources that would have broad impacts beyond climate on water, including more ocean acidification.
Each Annex I country is required to submit an annual report of inventories of all anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions from sources and removals from sinks under UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol.
In The Daily Telegraph, James Delingpole wrote that the film was an "ugly, counterproductive eco-propaganda movie" and that "with No Pressure, the environmental movement has revealed the snarling, wicked, homicidal misanthropy beneath its cloak of gentle, bunny-hugging righteousness".
Citizen support and participation As of 2016, citizen support for the Energiewende remained high, with surveys indicating that about 80–90% of the public are in favor.
Nevertheless, a couple of international governance instruments have addressed geoengineering collectively.
Some jurisdictions give priority to motorized traffic, for example setting up one-way street systems, free-right turns, high capacity roundabouts, and slip roads.
In 2023 CH4 global reported its first commercial sale and intentions to feed the additive to 10,000 cattle.
In Quebec, gasoline, diesel and propane taxes are reduced by varying amounts in certain remote areas and within 20 kilometres of the provincial and U.S.
In the European Union Emission Trading Scheme, EU Emission Allowances permit holders to emit a specified amount of carbon dioxide.
In 2025, the project reported positive interim results, including the successful testing of membranes for the DAC process and the identification of promising electrode materials and catalysts for the electrolysis step.
President Bill Clinton signed the agreement in November 1998, but the US Senate refused to ratify it, citing potential damage to the US economy required by compliance.
History In May 2003 a report prepared for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (O'Hara report) identified that although some funding for agricultural emissions was being provided by FRST and MAF, "The level of investment in abatement research by other public and private sources has been low".
Nonetheless, producers and consumers in those markets respond rationally and effectively to price signals.
Parliamentary passage The bill was passed unanimously by the Scottish Parliament on 24 June 2009 and received royal assent on 4 August.
On the other hand, there are many types of (electric) vehicles that take up little space, such as (cargo) bicycles and electric motorcycles and scooters.
More recently, Blanchard and Tirole (2021) - former IMF Chief Economist and a Nobel laureate, respectively - and Rajan (2021) - former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India and former IMF Chief Economist - have reiterated support for global carbon pricing.
The European Commission support the coalition, for strenghten climate action and improve its international relations.
By January 2021, the sides of a fjord outside Bergen had been cut out with explosives to site the tanks needed to store the captured CO2.
Taking account of lessons learned within the countries, and promoting the exchange of experiences among them.
The Carbon Trust was conceived as a business-led, publicly funded organisation operating at arm's length from the UK government.
In November 2020, Chile's president presented the "National Strategy for Green Hydrogen," stating he wanted Chile to become "the most efficient green hydrogen producer in the world by 2030".
The programme was selected into the FCPF Carbon Fund and an Emission Reductions Payment Agreement (ERPA) was signed under the Carbon Fund framework, reflecting the facility’s approach of linking payments to verified emission-reduction performance rather than readiness planning alone.
CO2-Plume Geothermal (CPG) is a proposed technology that combines carbon capture and storage (CCS/CCUS) with geothermal energy extraction, utilising carbon dioxide (CO2) itself as a geothermal energy extraction fluid.
The first period Kyoto emissions limitations can be viewed as a first-step towards achieving atmospheric stabilization of GHGs.
The number of insulated homes plummeted from assisting half a million homes in 2013 to a mere 60,000 in 2022.
The Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA) is a group of 188 countries, cities, regions and organisations aiming to accelerate the coal phase-out of coal-fired power stations, except the very few which have carbon capture and storage.
CERs can be used by Annex 1 countries in order to comply with their emission limitation targets order to comply with their obligations to surrender CERs or emission reduction units (ERUs) for the CO2 emissions of their installations.
It is expected to start trading existing Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) and Energy Savings Certificates (ESC) by 2025 and for these to become Carbon Credit Certificates by 2026.
CO2balance projects contribute primarily to the following SDGs: SDG 3: Good Health and Wellbeing: by reducing exposure to household air pollution and water borne diseases.
Research needs While existing equipment from CO2 enhanced oil recovery (EOR) and CCS projects could be repurposed for CPG, additional new equipment is required, primarily lower temperature supercritical turbines and high-pressure CO2 cooling and condensing units.
Besides the need to rapidly scale up currently minuscule production capacity, the main obstacles to wider deployment of sustainable aviation fuels and e-Fuels are their much higher cost in the absence of meaningful carbon pricing in aviation.
Australia's emissions reduction target The Australian Government in February 2010 submitted its plans for incorporation into the Copenhagen Accord for cutting emissions by the year 2020.
The climate change is caused cumulatively and today's emissions will have effect for decades forward.
and Exemptions for ports in Least-Developed Countries and Small Island Developing States, alongside carbon revenue use were proposed by Argentina and Norway during negotiations.
History The Chennai office started its business operation as a primary processing work, including payroll processing, in August 2001 with 80 staff.
It implements tree planting projects and carbon offsetting with environmentally conscious businesses, provides environmental education to schools in developing countries, and funds community development projects in rural communities centered on tree planting and reforestation.
The Net-Zero framework is in principle, designed to deliver on the 2023 GHG strategy, not only in terms of climate ambition but also addressing concerns relating to the just and equitable energy transition.
The National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) announced that eight sectors would be included in this market, these eight sectors are petrochemicals, chemicals, building materials, steel, ferrous metals, paper-making, power-generation and aviation.
A similar bill, the Climate Action Rebate Act, was introduced on July 25, 2019, into the Senate by Democrats Chris Coons and Dianne Feinstein and into the House of Representatives by Democrat Jimmy Panetta.
economy, leading to the creation of 2.8 million jobs over baseline during the program's first two decades.
This led to the introduction of vehicle emissions standards in California in 1966, furthermore due to the seriousness of the problem, in 1970 the Clean Air Act was introduced in order to regulate these standards all over the United States.
ECO3 target reached Ofgem's ECO3 final determination report provides details on the overall performance of the scheme and conclusions regarding of energy suppliers’ achievement against their obligations.
They can be optionally upgraded to 12.3-inch screens with upgraded infotainment which offers wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay support.
Climate Defiance is a climate movement organization in the United States which uses direct action protests to demand stronger climate change mitigation policies.
According to this, significantly less land will be required to produce green hydrogen from wind and photovoltaic energy than is currently required to grow fuel from sugarcane.
According to Ofgem's statistics, as of 7 May 2024 there had been a total of 100,708 ECO4 projects submitted.
In the same period, some market participants publicly supported the initiative's general direction; for example, Verra's chief executive said the organisation supported most of TSVCM's recommendations as part of broader voluntary-market integrity work.
The credit in April 2020 was disbursed as normal, but the October 2020 credit was moved up and disbursed 50% in May 2020 and 50% in June 2020.
(2022), involving over 40,000 respondents across 20 countries, found that a global system of tradable emissions quotas was among the most widely supported climate measures, with support rates above 70% in each country surveyed.
Beginning April 1, 2007, and expiring March 31, 2013, the initial tax rate was set at $0.0022/kWh for residential customers, $0.0004/kWh for commercial customers, and $0.0002/kWh for industrial customers.
That therefore provides businesses and consumers with incentives to use and invest in low-emissions technologies.
References Japan Denies Buying ‘Hot Air’ to Meet Kyoto Target Russia and carbon trading, New York Times, 28 Dec 2005
For example, in the UK, the city of Manchester claims it is "the first city to undertake to empower all its citizens with carbon literacy." Personal carbon trading has been criticised for its possible complexity and high implementation costs.
Emissions trading is a key element of the Kyoto Protocol and subsequent proposals to manage global greenhouse gas emissions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Injunction granted On April 5, 2022, the Commonwealth Court issued an order temporarily blocking publication of the RGGI rulemaking.
Some SREC aggregators have managed to negotiate 3- to 10-year agreements and can offer similar length contracts to their residential and commercial customers.
Whereas demand-side approaches seek to reduce fossil-fuel consumption, supply-side initiatives seek to constrain production to accelerate the pace of energy transition and reduction in emissions.
This process (CO2-to-stone) is known as "carbon sequestration by mineral carbonation" or mineral sequestration.
Relation to CCS projects As the subsurface reservoir cools due to geothermal heat extraction, the density of CO2 in the subsurface increases, enabling a larger mass to be stored for a given formation.
Smog of this intensity is often lethal to vulnerable people such as the elderly, infants, and those with respiratory problems.
The issue is more one of a shift in the mix of investments: moving away from fossil fuels and toward low carbon technologies and energy-efficient equipment and infrastructure.
Julia Gillard defeated Rudd in a leadership challenge, becoming Federal Prime Minister in June 2010.
To have a more sustainable energy profile, the United States must move towards implementing changes to the electrical grid that will accommodate a mixed-fuel economy.
More than 525 business entities are subject to the ETS with specific emission targets set for each sectors.
Coase's model assumes perfectly operating markets and equal bargaining power among those arguing for property rights.
Scope According to Mohammed Shamsuddoha and Rezaul Karim Chowdhury, "The 'draft concept note' prepared by the government of Bangladesh on the MDTF suggested that the secretariat be based in the World Bank office in Dhaka.
One of the advantages of this class of biofuels is that the cultivation of the organisms that produce the biofuels does not require the use of arable land.
The findings of reports are then reviewed through a broad consultation process within and outside of the commission.
Clean air reference website BAAQMD phone numbers – including 800-EXHAUST (800-394-2878) to report auto exhaust pollution
Cancellation and reinstatement of the Climate Action Plan On the first day of the presidency of Donald Trump, the White House website announced that Obama's Climate Action Plan would be eliminated, stating it is "harmful and unnecessary".
Specifically, ride-hailing companies are required by the state to log 90 percent of their miles in electric vehicles by 2030, and the proposition could have increased the number of drivers with electric vehicles.
The results of the summit were described by Climate Action Tracker as a step forward in the fight against climate change.
Motorsport Super GT GT500 The LC500 GT500 is a GT500 GT race car derived from the road-going LC500 for use in the Super GT from 2017 onwards.
Global Carbon Council (GCC), formerly known as Global Carbon Trust (GCT), is MENA region's first voluntary carbon offsetting program.
(2018) on equity and discounting IAM comparison studies Burke, Marshall; Zahid, Mustafa; Diffenbaugh, Noah S.; Hsiang, Solomon (25 March 2026).
As of December 2, 2023, 95 cities and subnational governments have either formally endorsed the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty or signed the Mayors Declaration.
History The Carbon Neutrality Coalition (CNC) was founded in 2017 by 16 countries and 32 cities, inspired by Bhutan.
Simon Upton, a former National Party MP and Minister for the Environment, was appointed as a special envoy to liaise with other countries on the issue.
The Carbon Neutrality Coalition (CNC) is a group of countries, cities and organisations which have committed to take concrete and ambitious action to achieve the aims of the Paris Agreement.
Form of allocation The economist Ross Garnaut states that permits allocated to existing emitters by 'grandfathering' are not 'free'.
Additionally, the concurrent implementation of an IMO GHG pricing mechanism and the extension of the EU ETS to international shipping may create a situation where GHG emissions from shipping are priced twice.
Leadership and participation TSVCM described itself as initiated by Mark Carney and chaired by Bill Winters, with an operating lead and supporting structures for its work programme.
Ofgem has been appointed the scheme administrator on behalf of the Department for Energy Security & Net Zero.
The energy sector which was previously slated to make a "considerable" contribution is now required to make an "adequate" contribution.
Belgium In October 2015, the Belgian Chamber of Representatives set up a special Dieselgate committee.
These are mechanisms defined under the Kyoto Protocol intended to lower the overall costs of achieving its emissions targets.
Carbon Clear is a founding member of the International Carbon Reduction and Offset Alliance (ICROA).
Verification Verification and certification of all carbon credits are necessary to insure real GHG reductions are occurring and to insure buyer confidence in using credits to offset GHG emissions.
A federally-managed backstop system under GHGPPA applies in provinces or territories that do not have a system that meets the criteria or if the province or territory request the federal system be used.
Senator Tom Harkin spoke on behalf of candidate Hillary Clinton, and climate advocates Jane Kleeb, founder of Bold Nebraska, and Iowa politician and radio host Ed Fallon spoke on behalf of candidate Bernie Sanders.
In the light shade that eucalypts provide, and in the weed-free forest floor, their rate of survival and growth is excellent.
One such project is The Adaptation Fund, which has been established by the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change to finance concrete adaptation projects and programmes in developing countries that are Parties to the Kyoto Protocol.
Coverage, certifications and labels GHG reduction projects recognized by Global Carbon Council aim to mitigate six greenhouse gases i.e.
War The bicycle has been used as a method of reconnaissance as well as transporting soldiers and supplies to combat zones.
Livestock is known to significantly contribute to global warming, and to negatively impact global nitrogen cycles and biodiversity.
The main feature of the Protocol is that it established legally binding commitments to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases for Annex I Parties.
See also Carbon emissions trading Politics of global warming Economics of global warming Mitigation of global warming Greenhouse Mafia References == Further reading and external links ==
Though the details of this are still under discussion as of late 2024, this strategy includes the implementation of a carbon price.
For comparison, the Paris Agreement nationally determined contribution (NDC) for Germany is −55% relative to 1990 (which accords with the final cell in the table).
The plan states that the energy supply must be "almost completely decarbonised" by 2050, with renewable energy as its main source.
End-user Emissions Trading – preliminary proposal in an article by Suryapratim Roy and Edwin Woerdman which analyses some of the legal and policy nuances of a carbon emissions trading scheme for individuals, for instance on an EU-wide scale.
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from gardens and homes There are some patent sources of greenhouse gas emissions in gardens and some more latent.
It had previously had 'highly trusted' status for a decade, and the school's managing director blamed the issue on 'formalities and clerical errors on the side of the UKBA.' It was reinstated in the same year after a re-inspection.
"Ol' Bentz," The Bugler In the 200 plus years that musicians have been stationed at West Point, there is probably no musician more notorious, or cherished, than Private Louis Bentz.
Gilroy, Larry Kerchner, Bill Locklear, Victor Lopez, Chris McDonald, Joe Murphy, Brad Pearson, Timothy Rhea, Steve Reisteter, Jeff Simmons, Tom Wallace and Bill Wiedrich.
Since then, the group has performed at The White House, the Embassy of Singapore, Disney World, the National Cherry Blossom Festival, and for the U.S Secretary of Labor.
Starting Spring 2021, the UMMB was able to hold spring marching band outdoor rehearsals a few nights a week.
Concepts & Skills - Going through the task-oriented process of deciding how to create music using concepts from all styles and periods.
Past items include a commemorative pin from the Magic Music Days (this pin is exclusively reserved for just the participants) and a shirt with the Magic Music Days logo on the front.
The SYO was plagued with various problems including lack of funds for instruments, lack of rehearsal venues and trained wind players.
Their fall concert, the 1st Annual Michigan A Cappella Festival, was a huge success, featuring 9 of the 12 active groups on campus over two nights.
They are best known for wearing suspenders and former member Masi Oka, one of the best known alumni of a college a cappella group and actor in the television series Heroes.
Governance and people Since 2019 and as of November 2023 the artistic director is conductor and author Paul Kildea.
The foundation bears the expense of acquiring or borrowing the instruments, and recipients make semi-annual contributions to a fund that insures that the instruments are well maintained.
Virtual students can meet professors in person at the InterHarmony International Music Festival, where they can study in person.
A careful investigation of the talent and the need for a scholarship is a prerequisite for the scholarship grants.
The Tritones have performed alongside Taylor Swift at the 2010 Country Music Awards and opened for the Far East Movement.
In 2011, The Daily reported on Fleet Street's May show, calling it, "filled with the silly, goofball antics the tuxedoed singers are known for." Fleet Street is a student-led organization; the group's music director, business manager, and singers are always Stanford students.
From these commissions, one composer is selected each year by a panel of judges to receive the "Distinguished Composer Award," otherwise known as the "Composer of the Year" award.
Harrison House and Morley House exclusively house graduate students and fellows; Harrison was opened in November 2006, and Morley in 2016.
The organization focuses on children in refugee camps and in villages on the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and Southern Lebanon.
The Men's 1st VIII hold the Oxbridge record for the most places advanced during one series of bumps (either Mays, Lents, or Torpids/Eights for Oxford), advancing 13 places in the May Bumps 2001, where the crew moved up a division to division 3 and also won blades.
"Song of Peace" was published in 2009 and was dedicated to Professor Zaven Yedigharians (Father to SOL Music Ensemble, the first teacher of Bahman Mehabadi, and the teacher of many other great Iranian Violinists) .
So far, the GYSO has given nine concerts in Greece, featuring world-class soloists, and two composers have been commissioned to write new works for the Orchestra.
SOL Music owes its extension as an independent center to the professional insights of Helen Marx to this date.
James Piccadilly in central London, and in Hammersmith, where the group headlined a nationwide music competition.
He was succeeded in 1918 by Alexander Russell, who served until 1934, when the Glee Club became a responsibility of the music faculty.
A section in the site allows users to explore the composer's musical scores by integrating audio and video content to follow the score while also offering sections that explore a variety of musical concepts, such as Beethoven's use of themes and key or Stravinsky's intricate use of meter.
In 2021, the Alley Cats collaborated with songwriter Diane Warren to create a music video of her lead single from the movie Four Good Days, "Somehow You Do".
Affiliation with the Professional Children's School In March 2024, Saint Thomas Church warned that due to rising costs, it would discontinue operating the school unless it raised $50 million in endowment funds.
Recipients of these Scholarships currently include students at East Carolina University, Eastman School of Music, Juilliard School, New England Conservatory, and Princeton University.
Ethical Standards Relating to Colleagues Competition Students of NATS members have access to one of the organization's most widely recognized activities: Student Auditions.
Werner (1932–2022), University of Cincinnati – College-Conservatory of Music 1992–1994 — Fred Miller (1930–2006), DePaul University 1995–1997 — Harold M.
The Husky Band, under the direction of Bill Bissell, is credited with the invention of the Wave in 1981.
Entry to the specialist music unit or school is by competitive audition, which also effectively gives entry to the host school.
Hall is a foster parent as well and provides all children from the Foster care system services at no cost.
Peter's Basilica and of "Jubilate Deo," a song composed by the school's founder, for Pope Francis in St.
Other notable buildings of the college include the Ibberson Building, built in 1914, and named after its architect Herbert George Ibberson.
By 2006, the first set of teacher resources and case studies was published and made freely available, leading to widespread adoption across UK schools.
Such as programs for Universities Music Festival , for Mahak Charity's benefit , and for Pajoohesh Week in Tehran University and published two other albums in 2003.
PAS developed an influential list of drum rudiments called the PAS 40 International Snare Drum Rudiments, which are considered to be the current standard reference on the subject.
The band performed an after-midnight concert at the Cozzens Hotel in Highland Falls during a pouring rain.
Critical thought should be used in solving the problem, and all students are encouraged to experiment.
The effects of musical training on child development: A randomized trial of El Sistema in Venezuela.
Johnson attended an Otis Redding concert in 1967 and was inspired to translate the style of the concert into a program he could sustain at the high school in order to create opportunities for his student musicians, and thus the Kashmere Stage Band was born.
It is published by Cambridge University Press, with a scope that covers medieval music, and plainchant from the Middle Ages to the present.
Made up of University of Pennsylvania students, the group's membership constantly changes as veteran members graduate and new members enter the group through an audition process.
The school houses, Ronan, Hopperton, Mann, and Armstrong, are represented by the colours blue, yellow, red, and green, respectively.
In addition, the HMB plays at various community events around Seattle and does a full show at one local high school once a year.
IAJE was first incorporated as a non-profit on August 18, 1989, having developed from the International Association of Jazz Educators (since 1971) and the U.S.
Their 2021 album "Gemini," was nominated for Best Lower Voices Collegiate Album by the Contemporary A Capella Society (CASA).
Available programs include: "Strum & Sing" covering fundamental development, "Amigo Program" for English Learners, "Early Childhood Education" for those working with young children, and the "MIRSE" (pronounced `mercy`) for those working with Special Needs Individuals.
Founded as an alternative a cappella ensemble, the group has a tradition of highly theatrical, interactive performance and is acclaimed for creating a fun, down-to-earth atmosphere in both rehearsal and concert.
Events Athletics Historically, football championship games have been held at neutral sites mutually agreed upon by both teams, but in 2006, 2007 and 2009, both Conference 5A championship games were played at the Alamodome in San Antonio.
Soon Houman Behzadi left the Ensemble to continue his music studies in the University of Western Ontario.
In 2015, the campaign was relaunched in response to the Department for Education's proposal to implement the English Baccalaureate as a headline accountability measure in schools.
The group followed up the success of Pehchaan with their sixth album, On Detours, which was released in March 2009 and Panoramic, released in 2011.
Organization The association has a national office in Jacksonville, Florida, and is governed by a national Board of Directors.
The Musikvermittlung (Music Promotion) degree program includes majors in Music Education, Conducting, Ear Training, and Church Music.
The Royal Academic Orchestra (Swedish: Kungliga Akademiska Kapellet) is Uppsala University’s symphony orchestra.
Partnerships Since its establishment in 2006 ETM-LA has formed several partnerships with various organizations and individuals.
Publications The International Journal of Music Education is the official journal of the society and is published four times a year by SAGE Publications.
The World Flute Society (WFS), a successor to the International Native American Flute Association, is a non-profit organization dedicated to cultural flute playing from around the world.
The group’s alumni song is "Streets of Philadelphia" by Bruce Springsteen, arranged by member Andrew Callard in 1995.
He graduated with a bachelor's degree in musical education from Jacksonville State University in 1997, and he was formerly the director of bands at Henry E.
1998 Second International Symposium The Hague, Netherlands (February 6–8, 1998) - The Dancer of the XXI Century, Education for Transition in a Changing World.
Origin and development Batuta was created in 1991 by the national government of president César Gaviria as a special project of the first lady Ana Milena Muñoz Gómez with assistance of José Antonio Abreu.
The possibility of introducing a Cambridge Bachelor of Education (BEd) degree had been given as one of the reasons for the original move into Cambridge.
In addition to competing in Tournament of Bands, the 2012 MASH band competed in another marching band circuit, USBands (formerly known as USSBA).
The camp has also initiated such experiments in multi-cultural cooperation as the Blue Lake in Bavaria concert band which was formed out of a mixture of American and European junior and senior high school students to rehearse and perform together over the course of a month.
Ascension: Symphonina Rising, released in 2025, was recognized by the Hollywood Independent Music Awards, Clouzine, the LIT Music Awards, and the World Entertainment Awards.
ISPME members include professors of music, education, and philosophy at universities in Europe, Asia, Oceania, and the Americas.
Nahid Abtahi, during the years of her presence in SOL Music, also took the role of designing covers for all the albums in which she played, often using the paintings of Bahman Mehabadi.
An excerpt from History of Music at Harvard to 1972 by Elliott Forbes (Harvard UP: 1988) describes the beginnings of BachSoc: The 'Musical Club of Harvard University,' as it was called upon its founding in 1898, took on new life after World War II.
It was founded in 1874 by Andrew Fleming West '74, who later became the first Dean of the Graduate College.
During its three years of existence, more than 100 Greek musicians have been selected, after auditions, to perform with the orchestra, and over 1,500 young people have attended its educational activities.
In the early 1990s, The High Jinks dissolved and former members came together as The Bear Necessities (The High Jinks were revived in 2009).
Sachdev Scholar-in-Residence: Michael Graham Allen (Coyote Oldman) Youth Outreach Coordinator: Victoria Shoemaker Flute Circle Connection Liaison: Sandi Horton Events The World Flute Society hosts a biennial convention in Eau Claire Wisconsin.
The Rock and Roll Forever Foundation's founder board includes Bruce Springsteen, Bono, Jackson Browne, and Martin Scorsese.
Founded in 2012 by Rhona Gouldson and Archie Chen, DIPF was created in order to answer the call for a "quality holistic program of piano" in Dublin.
We know that those who posses these skills will out-perform those who don't have them and we are confident that learning to play music is the best way for our young people to acquire them.
The roof has been rebuilt for enhanced acoustics, and there are baffles to allow the acoustics to be modified.
Large Ensemble Assessment allow bands, orchestras, and choral groups to play for evaluation at district-level sites.
Additionally, TeachRock has partnered with several organizations to expand its reach, including the American Federation of Teachers, the National Education Association, the United Federation of Teachers, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, the California Department of Education, and the Grammy Museum.
Researchers state that these findings are inconclusive without long-term, large-sample, independent evaluations.
The orchestra toured Europe in 2017, making its debut at Young Euro Classic and again in 2019, under the baton of Andrés Orozco-Estrada; they have also played in Miami, Houston and São Paulo.
Students play instruments and music styles associated with specific ethnic groups or regions, such as the chonto wood marimba and vallenato music, and there are student exchanges between different parts of the country.
Approximately fifteen men met for the first time in Christmas-Saucon Hall, which was then called Saucon Hall, on October 29, 1906.
International Association for Jazz Education (IAJE), formerly a not-for-profit corporation based in Manhattan, Kansas, was a volunteer-run organization that, among other things, allocated student scholarships through its approved festivals program.
The OMEA is involved at all levels of music education in Ohio, serving more than 1.8 million public school students from 612 school districts and 51 colleges and universities.
The Bach Society Orchestra has been an official undergraduate organization of the university since the 1954–55 academic school year.
Music Makers Founded in 2007, Music Makers is an instrumental music education program within WYSO for underserved students.
It started with a handful of kids and has continued to grow from 1 program to 3 indoor color guard programs.
In addition to its original school in Hoxton, North London, pointblank now has schools in Los Angeles, Ibiza, Mumbai, Hangzhou, Shenzhen, and online.
A Chattanoogan, Mary Fleming Meek, won the $50 prize with her song entitled "On a Hallowed Hill." Although Mrs.
In September 2023, the OFJ announced the appointment of Kristiina Poska as its next music director, the first female conductor ever named to the post, effective in the summer of 2025.
Since that time the Forum has established National and Regional Advisory Committees for the project, contracted 14 composers for commissions, and retained key personnel for the positions of Music Editor and Curriculum Editor, as well as additional curriculum writers.
From the start the Theremin Center was intended to operate on a non-profit basis and most services and equipment were donated by the founders and sponsors of the Theremin Center.
The UIL is under the governance of the Vice President for Diversity and Community Engagement at the University of Texas at Austin in Austin, Texas.
In Japan, El Sistema principles have been incorporated into projects coordinated by El Sistema Japan (ESJ), a non-profit organization working in partnership with schools, municipalities, and professional ensembles.
Darling's dedication to Arts-in-Education innovation and creativity earned him the 1995 Artist of the Year Award from Young Audiences, Inc.
Purpose The idea for BandQuest began in 2000 after a national survey of music educators conducted by the American Composers Forum revealed a need for fresh music for young bands.
More than 1 million families in at least 60 countries have attended Kindermusik classes in programs worldwide.
The journal aims to encourage the interrogation and development of a range of research methodologies and their application to diverse topics in music education, theory and practice.
A teacher does not impose judgement on students' creations, but rather acts as the "facilitator of discovery." References Thomas, Ronald B (1970).
During Christmastime, groups may also perform in the front lobby of Hong Kong Disneyland Hotel and Disney's Hollywood Hotel.
While working closely with the DCSF and DCMS, the Music Manifesto remains independent of the Government.
In 2015, French journalist Pierre Fougerat produced Pianos of Dublin, a documentary about the Festival & Summer Academy from the perspectives of the participants and faculty.
The VFSS is not primarily a venue for concerts by professional performers, but a place where everyone is encouraged to participate in music.
Since then, the repertoire has grown to span the historical continuum from baroque to the contemporary.
Most recently, the group performed Owl City's "Fireflies" on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert in March 2023.
In 2013, the school was banned by the Border Agency from sponsoring non-EU nationals for offering too many places to students who failed to meet the rules.
The ensemble learned Obama's campaign theme song, Stevie Wonder's "Signed, Sealed, Delivered I'm Yours" (1970), but was forced offstage after a teleprompter was kicked during their performance.
Fleet Street was founded in 1981, as a collegiate a cappella group focused on comedy, theatricality, and barbershop harmony.
Penguins also feature heavily in the group's visual identity, appearing on the covers of eight of their eleven albums.
The school was made up of multiple weeks catering to different musical genres or periods, earlier weeks catering to older music (Renaissance and Baroque) and later weeks moving through the Classical period to Contemporary and Jazz; students could sign up for one or more weeks.
Founded in 2019 by El Sistema Sweden and the Swedish music copyright organization STIM, the orchestra consists of more than 60 students of age 11 to 19 from all over Sweden.
One of the oldest music education associations in the United States, the OMEA recently celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2007.
The campaign is supported by 100,000+ individual signatories and over 200 organisations from across the creative industries including Aardman Animations, Shakespeare's Globe, The BRIT School, The Design Council and more.
In 2008, Marsalis Jams established Marsalis Berklee Jams, an ongoing program with the Berklee College of Music that brings bands to the school’s newly created performance space Café 939.
Another tradition of the Pride is to interlock arms and sing the Alma Mater before marching to the stadium for every home football game.
The sessions not only focus on learning repertoire, but also on essentials such as ensemble skills, listening, posture and musicianship, along with advice on audition preparation.
Experience with these concepts provides a foundation for learning note-reading during the second year.
Airfare for the 50-person choir was provided by the Icelandic government, with Minister of Education Lilja Alfreðsdóttir saying, "the state often strengthens cultural events" and "this will be very good for all parties".
The Romanian Youth Orchestra (Romanian: Orchestra Română de Tineret) is the national youth orchestra of Romania.
16th–18th centuries In the city of Naples, a conservatorio was strictly a secular place for teaching and learning specializing in music education.
Workshops/Clinics Disneyland: Disneyland workshops are run by current and former Disneyland Cast Members who work professionally outside of Disneyland in the industry of the workshop they are running.
For elementary and middle school children, KMEA offers the Kentucky Children's Chorus for grades 5–6, and two Kentucky Junior High Choruses for grades 7–9: a treble chorus and a mixed chorus.
The association organized more than 7,000 teachers, musicians, producers, and others interested in jazz, from more than thirty countries.
Andra Bohnet, Rhonda Larson, Winne Clement, Eliyahu Sills, and Bryan Akipa Former Members: Xavier Quijas, Yxayotl of Guadalajara, Kevin Locke, and G.
The group sings a variety of secular and sacred Slavic choral pieces (and non-Slavic pieces from the former USSR and neighboring regions), from the 12th century onward, including folk songs of Russia and Eastern Europe.
The platform includes expanded versions of the *Just Play* and *Everyone Can Play* programmes, new projects such as *Play Now*, *Express Yourself Hip-Hop Songwriting*, and *Recreate*—an electronic-music unit supporting creativity in digital audio workstations (DAWs).
The international headquarters was in Kenosha, Wisconsin, for fifty years before moving to Nashville, Tennessee, in 2007.
On October 11, 1969, the Marching 97 went to Rutgers Stadium along with women from nearby colleges acting as cheerleaders for the first time.
Audience members toss shoes on stage if they feel particularly moved by a soloist's singing; many audience members bring multiple pairs of shoes to throw.
In 2010 instruction in music technology and in 2011 in recording technology was started in cooperation with Sibelius Academy and Hochschule für Musik Detmold.
In 2007, the choir performed Bach's Saint Matthew Passion for the opening concert of the Mexico Festival in Mexico City as well as at Saint Thomas Church.
References External links Official website ISME Archives – Special Collections in Performing Arts at the University of Maryland Edmund Cykler Collection of International Music Education Resources at the University of Maryland Libraries
In honour of Professor Nollner's service to the Glee Club, an endowment fund has been established in his name to assist the Glee Club with its yearly operations.
Within each conference, the UIL separates the schools into regions, and then further separates the regions into districts for various contests.
Guest faculty have in the past included John O'Conor, Artur Pizarro, and HJ Lim, and in 2016 will include Orla McDonagh.
The weekend long back-to-back performances were full-length shows for international audiences at the Olympic Village.
Participating teachers in Cairo were pianist Ralf Gothoni, violist Teemu Kupiainen, cellist professor Arto Noras, director Eija Tolpo and pianist Jari Hiekkapelto.
Eventually, Van Zandt began recruiting a team of ethnomusicologists, educators and celebrity supporters to contribute to the organization.
In 2017, the group performed at Facebook headquarters and Google headquarters on their tour of the California Bay Area, then at the United Nations office in Geneva, Switzerland, and at the United States Embassy in Paris, France.
Stones Throw Records imprint label Now-Again Records released a compilation of KSB material in 2006, Texas Thunder Soul 1968–1974.
Brock Memorial Commission" to "a recognized composer to write a choral composition in an effort to perpetuate quality choral repertoire." See also John B.
Each presentation in Session I was followed by a response from a psychologist, and in Session II by a music educator.
The first person to be awarded a grant under the trust was the young Dunedin born soprano Ana James.
Alumni The Mechanicsburg Area School District and Mechanicsburg Area Senior High have both a list of distinguished alumni and an active Alumni Association.
As of 2017, AVP, as it is often called for short, has released thirteen studio albums, including a greatest hits album, DECADEmical: Best of 1993-2003, of its first ten years in existence.
Following its two residential courses, the ensemble performs during spring and summer at a variety of venues and festivals as part of the Orchestra's annual national and international tours.
The National String Project Consortium (NSPC) was formed in 1998 to address the shortage of string-instrument teachers in public schools in the United States.
After that, " "Pehchaan" from Pehchaan, "Lovestoned/Ya Ali" from On Detours, "Is Pal Mein" from Panoramic, and "Manwa Laage" from Resonance have all been selected to be on the Best of Collegiate A Cappella CD for their respective years.
It also previously published Percussionist (later renamed Percussive Notes Research Edition) until its functions were combined with Percussive Notes.
Traugott Rohner Leadership in the Music Industry Award is given to a string industry leader whose identity is primarily from within North America.
Audience members have included Martha Stewart, Jay Leno, Stella McCartney, Tom Brokaw, and President Barack Obama.
Brand, along with other musicians, thought that by combining information and actual musical performances in class, performed by live orchestra musicians, students will find it attractive and engaging to know more and to learn how to enjoy classical music.
Musical Futures Online In January 2021, Musical Futures UK unveiled their new resource platform, Musical Futures Online.
In 2005, the boys finished with a 19–3 record, repeated as the Big Spring Invitational champions, finished second at the Mid-Penn Cross Country Championships, won the Keystone Division title, and attained the highest team finish at the District 3 Championships in school history.
During the early 2020s, MFI increased its focus on digital access and teacher training through blended online and in-person workshops.
The Stanford Fleet Street Singers (Fleet Street) is a comedy a cappella group from Stanford University.
The band claimed 1st place prize on the night of November 12, 2005 at Lackawanna County Stadium in Moosic, Pennsylvania.
The five winningest class champion bands include Mars Area High School (16 times; A/AA/AAA), Gateway High School (15 times; AA/AAA/AAAA), Kiski Area High School (15 times; AAAA/National), Norwin Senior High School (12 times; AAAA/National), and Trinity High School (10 times; AAA/AAAA).
A typical MMCP sequence of events is as follows: 1) Strategy - Teacher presents a framework for introducing a musical problem (often in the form of a question) that inspires creative thought.
The band wore West Point-style uniforms like the rest of the cadets in the Military Department and had a more varied repertoire of instruments, including a clarinet.
Washington DC area (March 30–31, 2012) Day one will take place at the University of Maryland in College Park, Maryland and will feature Jerry Blackstone, Karen Kennedy and Jameson Marvin as clinicians.
Courses cover subjects such as Vocal Anatomy and Physiology, Voice Acoustics and Resonance, Vocal Health for Voice Professionals, Singers Development Repertoire and Comparative Voice Pedagogy.
After checking with area hotels (cost prohibitive and unavailable ballrooms for rehearsals - Beethoven Hall too small and the Majestic Theater booked), they were directed to the Scottish Rite Auditorium.
History The Sweethearts began at Matthew Flinders Girls Secondary College under the direction of Ross Lipson, initially as a social band for teachers and students in Years 10-12 of high school.
Originally set up as a recording studio, pointblank quickly evolved into a school after clients expressed an interest in learning about how the gear worked themselves.
Funded by the Ford Foundation and administered by the National Music Council, the project placed young composers (age 35 and under) in public school systems as composers-in-residence.
Typically, they offer a high percentage of practical training combined with academic study and professional development for those considering a career in the creative arts.
It protects and supports its members by providing them with expert advice, insurance and specialist services as well as access to a community of like-minded professionals and the status that comes with being a member of a professional body.
The history of Savonlinna Music Academy thus goes back to times before Savonlinna Opera Festival made the small town internationally known.
The New York Singing Teachers' Association (NYSTA) is an international educational association of singing teachers and affiliated voice professionals based in New York City.
The "spiral curriculum" concept was first proposed by Jerome Bruner in 1960, and has since been the model for many school curricula in the US.
As a reaction he threw back stones, of which photographs were made that were shown all over the world.
Focus The four main areas of MMCP focus are: Discovery - Learning by creating is the most exciting way to retain, understand, and learn music.
It was named for Leon Theremin - Russian inventor of the Theremin, one of the first widely used electronic musical instruments.
Maryam Tajik, Babak Nazari and Shahab Abtahi were also supportively present alongside other members.
Stanford Talisman is a student a cappella group at Stanford University, dedicated to sharing stories through music.
Alumni Alumni of the centre not mentioned above include: Tkay Maidza Pinkish Blu George Alice Teenage Joans DyspOra TOWNS References External links Official website NSS on YouTube
It was not until the spring of 1998 that the group of six, under the name "Tastes Like Chicken," received its first gig.
MENC officially expelled TMEA, what would have been and would remain today its largest affiliated organization, on June 30, 1975.
Radio The VFSS produced a radio program titled Folk Circle for the radio station CFRO-FM beginning in 1975 and running through the late seventies.
According to Director John Boyd, as they came onto the field for a halftime show, the announcer, the 1965–1979 director Ron Collins, said: "Here come your fabulous Marching Cavaliers!" The name ended up sticking.
In 2012 Energy Groove and the airline Emirates entered a collaboration which now sees Emirates play Energy Groove Radio across its entire fleet.
Notable APC arrangers and composers include Roland Barrett, Kenny Bierschenk, Scott Boerma, Jay Dawson, John Fannin, Gary P.
AYO offers tailored training and performance programs yearly for aspiring musicians, composers, arts administrators and music journalists, aged between 12 and 30.
Northern Sound System (NSS) is a dedicated youth centre focused on music, broadcasting, and other creative industries, located in Elizabeth, a northern suburb of Adelaide, South Australia.
The topics and the instructors There are 15 various topics and each one is about a different musical instrument.
The National Association of Schools of Music (NASM) is an association of post-secondary music schools in the United States and the principal U.S.
The orchestra has been conducted by Valery Gergiev, Vladimir Fedoseyev, Michail Jurowski, Alexander Lazarev, Alexander Sladkovsky, Jean-Christophe Spinosi, Yuri Simonov, Antonello Manacorda, Alexander Anisimov, Nayden Todorov and Maxim Emelyanychev.
The Fabulous Marching Cavaliers, also abbreviated to FMC, is the marching band of Princess Anne High School in Virginia Beach, Virginia, United States.
Other artists involved in the 2021 programme included: Sokel, Elsy Wameyo, and Sonz of Serpent performed on the Zoo Stage and Frome Park Pavilion at Botanic Park at WOMAD in 2022.
Initially aimed at giving guitar and piano lessons and focused on rock and roll, it soon began a technical program for producing music, and then programs for theater, dance, and world music.
That following summer students decided that the experience was so much fun and the result so successful that it would be worth a try to keep the group going as an a cappella group.
Concerts are held at least twice a year in the Aula Magna in Louvain-la-Neuve, with regular concerts in other Belgian cities.
The purpose of the Symposium was to explore the relationship between research in certain areas of behavioral psychology and music education.
The "Barberpole Cat Program" is a collection of 12 songs (commonly known as "polecats") that are considered standard repertoire for every barbershopper ("Let Me Call You Sweetheart", "My Wild Irish Rose", etc.) Every member receives a booklet upon joining the society.
By 1817, leadership for the West Point Band was given to a civilian with the pay and benefits of a Major.
Other species kept in captivity are spotted dolphins, gray whales, false killer whales, pilot whales and common dolphins, Commerson's dolphins, as well as rough-toothed dolphins, but all in much lower numbers than the bottlenose dolphin.
Within this time, SeaWorld USA emerged, with operations in Orlando, Florida, San Diego, California, San Antonio, Texas and Aurora, Ohio (the Ohio location has since ceased operations).
Upon arrival at the Seaquarium, Lolita joined a male southern resident orca named Hugo, who was also captured from Puget Sound and had lived in the Seaquarium for two years before her arrival.
Following an awards-qualifying run in 2019, a US theatrical release was planned for April 2020, but was postponed due to the closure of theaters during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Call for prohibition With the lack of oversight and the danger to the environment by overfishing environmentalists have called for stricter regulation and even prohibition of the collecting of wild fish for private aquariums.
A touch pool or touch tank is a type of aquarium attraction in public aquariums where members of the public, especially young people, are allowed to touch the wildlife within the tanks.
Performances resumed on December 16, 2011, and the following year, the young beluga whales also made their show debut.
The almost floor to ceiling windows in both the bedroom and bathroom face out on to the resort's Ambassador Lagoon, home to a multitude of exotic sea creatures.
My Visit to the Freshwater Public Aquarium in Havana, Cuba, Aquarticles.com, January 2004, retrieved on: 22 June 2007 Case Studies in Aquarium History Sao Paulo's Aquarium (Aquário de São Paulo) - Brazil Public aquariums in the United States A map of public aquaria around the world
In January 2026, the aquarium announced a $13 million expansion and redevelopment that will include a new large aquarium, new exhibits, a 125-seat cinema, and a new multi-purpose facility to house the aquarium's conservation and rehabilitation programs.
Coral World is a marine park and tourist attraction located next to Coki Beach on the East End of St.
Sea Base Alpha had been re-themed to Finding Nemo and the entire original preshow area was in the process of being rebuilt.
The Bangkok Aquarium (Thai: สถานแสดงพันธุ์สัตว์น้ำจืดกรุงเทพมหานคร or สถานแสดงพันธุ์สัตว์น้ำกรุงเทพฯ), founded in 1940, is the oldest aquarium in Thailand.
Other park animals include sea turtles, stingrays, juvenile sharks, seahorses, sea stars, conch, sea cucumbers, iguanas, and lorikeets.
This venue practices dual pricing, where Thai nationals and expat citizens pay around half the price that foreigners do.
The structures which replaced the old roof garden were designed in 1998 by the Colman Partnership in a "stripped-down Regency style".
It is currently the largest ocean park in the Philippines, tripling the size of the Manila Ocean Park.
According to Marineland, Pepper did not die as described in the article and the others were not blind but were in fact generally healthy.
Facilities and attractions Since its opening in 1978, the park has featured a signature Underwater Observatory Tower.
As of 2005, the world's second largest penguinarium was located on the Spanish island of Tenerife, where twelve tons of artificial snow were generated daily for the penguins at Loro Parque aquarium.
Two hundred years later, Sato Sanzaemon, from Koriyama, became the first Japanese fish breeder, and fish breeding became popular throughout Japan.
Wild dolphins may become aggressive when they swim close to boats anticipating snacks, and don't receive any.
The firm is an affiliate of Shinsegae Group, South Korea's leading retail chaebol, and one of the big three department store firms in Korea, along with Lotte and Hyundai Department Store.
Exterior In the Terraza exterior one is exposed to art about fishing, the cabin of the fishing vessel María del Carmen, and the anchor of the oil tanker Mar Egeo that ran aground on December 3, 1992 spilling oil.
The park also includes a dolphinarium, an area of mangrove swamps and marshland, and a garden with more than 80 different species of plants.
Mundo Marino claimed to have rescued him after he stranded, and kept him for public display when its staff determined he could not be released.
She would have continued to "receive round-the-clock medical care, security and feedings." Initially, Lolita would be accommodated in an enclosure within the larger whale sanctuary before being allowed to swim in a netted area of about 15 acres (6 hectares).
He had dreamt since his days in the Navy of establishing a place for people to learn about the history and fragile ecosystem of the Chesapeake Bay.
Soybean meal is a high protein source for fish and has become a substitute for traditionally used marine animal meals.
Aquarium was the world's largest, by total water volume, containing nearly 45,000,000 litres (9,900,000 imp gal; 12,000,000 US gal) of water, and housing more than 100,000 individual marine, brackish, and freshwater animals belonging to over 800 species.
The group owns the brands Shinsegae and E-Mart, and is in direct competition with Lotte Shopping and Hyundai Department Store Group.
See also List of botanical gardens in India List of aquaria Notes References "Zoos Worldwide: Aquariums, Animal Sanctuaries, and Wildlife Parks".
There are several institutions known as the National Aquarium: Africa National Marine Aquarium of Namibia Asia National Museum of Marine Biology and Aquarium, Taiwan Europe National Aquarium Denmark National Marine Aquarium, Plymouth, England North America National Aquarium (Baltimore), U.S.
See also Animal theme park List of dolphinariums WSPA Marine Mammal Protection Act Marine mammal training Captivity (animal) Captivity References Further reading Lou Jacobs, Wonders of an oceanarium: The story of marine life in captivity.
Animals Orcas Under founder Ted Griffin, the aquarium was home to many orca whales captured in the wild.
The waterworks' turbine and pumps were initially used to get water from the Schuylkill River for the exhibits, but this untreated water proved to be too polluted for the fish, and the aquarium switched to using city water.
History The name Baconao is related to the name of a little native who lived in the south of Cuba during the pre-Columbian period.
Between the 1970s and the 1990s, technical advances and the public's increasing interest in aquatic environments prompted a shift to large marine mammal parks with cetaceans (mostly orcas and other species of dolphin) as attractions.
Flora and fauna Since paludaria encompass water, land and air, many different types of fauna can be encompassed in the enclosure.
The lower floor of the aquarium includes a mangrove swamp habitat that is home to monos, archer fish, gourami fish, rainbow sharks and blowfish.
On January 18, three days before the concert, fans reported hearing soundchecks for several of Beyoncé's songs outside the hotel.
Publication Written and illustrated by Kiyomi Sugishita, Deep-Sea Aquarium Magmell was initially serialized in Shinchosha's seinen manga magazine Go Go Bunch from April 8, 2017 to February 9, 2018.
These small workers help to keep various small animal enclosures (for dart frogs, salamanders, centipedes, whipspiders, etc.) clear of decomposing food particles that otherwise can result in mold growth, mite infestations, or oxygen depletion from decomposition.
Atlantis the Royal is one of the most expensive hotels in the world, where the price of the "Royal Mansion" suite exceeds $100,000 per night.
Ocean exploration also became more common, as telegraph cables were installed underwater, diving bells and early submarines were invented, and deep sea explorations began with the help of dredgers.
After that, "the captive whale fasted 54 days" and "became very noticeably thinner." Compared to orcas in the wild, Moby Doll appeared to Griffin to be "gaunt and lethargic." On that same day, the feeding breakthrough occurred.
Unlike at previous aquariums in Boston, there was a concerted effort to present animals to visitors in naturalistic exhibits.
History The Cretaquarium project was conceived by employees of the former Institute of Marine Biology of Crete (IMBC) to create the first large aquarium in Greece, as part of a marine park for research, education, culture and recreation.
Summary Guests first visit two naturalistic habitats, one filled with West Indian manatees and several species of freshwater fish, the other home to more than 1,500 saltwater fish and over a dozen sea turtles.
The resort became open to the public and available for reservation on February 10, 2023, and the launch event lasted three days.
History Montreal Aquadome (1967–1991) The Expo pavilion was originally sponsored by Alcan Aluminum Ltd., who built the site as a joint venture with the City of Montreal and the Zoological Society of Montreal.
Temporary exhibitions Monterey Bay Aquarium began creating temporary exhibitions (or "special exhibitions") in the 1980s to display animals that are found outside of Monterey Bay.
However, other environmental scholars have posited that such arguments are representative of colonial conservation policies, stating that "The whales were killed and captured one at a time by settlers.
The Aquarium boosted the popularity of the area; land near the Aquarium was subdivided and sold as The Queensport Aquarium Estate.
See more List of protected areas of Thailand List of Ramsar wetlands of Thailand References External links Official website
Government aquarium, Cubbon park is a ‘fresh water fish aquarium’ in an octagonal shape and is a three-storied building.
To achieve a sufficient birth rate and to prevent inbreeding, artificial insemination (AI) is occasionally used.
In late 2019, new directory signage was installed in Seabase Alpha, restoring the former Living Seas logo, as the pavilion was now renamed "The Seas" Pavilion.
The AQWA Foundation The AQWA Foundation is a registered non-profit environmental organisation, established by AQWA in 2002.
It includes three rides: Tidepool Twist, a spinning teacup attraction; Rescue Riders, an attraction in the style of Dumbo the Flying Elephant; and Rescue Rafter, a raft themed Tug Boat ride.
She is learning new behaviors all the time and is used in shows daily alongside the other young orcas at SeaWorld Orlando.
Featured animals included: Red-bellied piranha Silver arowana Blue poison dart frog Electric eel Emerald tree boa Closure The aquarium closed on September 30, 2013, having permanently lost its location due to a renovation of the Herbert C.
It incorporates a 98-metre (322 ft) underwater acrylic tunnel, the largest in Australia, with a motorised conveyor belt walkway.
Sphinx Visitors could also see a so-called "sphinx." "We well remember [the sphynx] when it first arrived at the Gardens -- a dull, obstinate, seemingly unteachable brute.
On March 27, it was announced that the grand opening would take place on April 13 after a preliminary opening on April 1 for residents of the four prefectures in Shikoku.
Ownership Busan Aquarium is a joint project between Living and Leisure Australia (LLA) and the local government.
External links The park have 7 dolphins : Farah (F), Camino (F), Maya (F), Aqua (F), Eduardo (M), Jade (F) and Nilo (M).
History The Vasco da Gama Aquarium project was conceived in the context of the celebrations of the 4th centenary of Vasco da Gama's departure from Portugal on the voyage on which he discovered the sea route to India.
See also Hyundai Department Store Group Homeplus References External links Shinsegae Homepage Shinsegae E-Mart Homepage Shinsegae : Official Seoul City Tourism Business data for Shinsegae:
The aquarium attracts around 2 million visitors each year and, through 2016, over 50 million people had visited.
In the latter half of 2005, the sanctuary was closed and dismantled and an office and retail store were built.
The hall lead to a children's activities section, a meteorological station and an observation deck, which provided an expansive view of the city and ocean beyond.
Cryphiops lanchesteri, Riceland prawn Micratya poeyi, Caribbean dwarf filter shrimp Neocaridina davidi (wild type), Wild type cherry shrimp Neocaridina davidi var.
Steve Oakley—a marine biologist at the University Malaysia Sarawak's (Unimas) Institute of Biodiversity and Environmental Conservation—was working with a team of scientists to rejuvenate coral reefs and rescue marine life.
Aquarium had the world's largest underwater viewing panel, at 36-metre (118 ft) wide, 8.3-metre (27 ft) tall and 0.7-metre (2 ft 4 in) thick, built to give visitors the feeling of being on the ocean floor until the aforementioned opening of Chimelong Ocean Kingdom in Hengqin, China in 2014.
The aquarium has 5.7 million litres (1.25 million gallons) of marine and freshwater habitats from across the world.
Outdoor areas remain cooled 10 months out of the year using shades, pools, plants, and ornamental fountains.
Watershed clean-ups Sea Life Michigan participates in and promotes watershed clean-ups of local rivers, streams and lakes with partners including the Clinton River Watershed Council, Friends of the Detroit River and Save Lake St.
Sharks are predatory themselves and may maul or consume tankmates smaller or weaker than themselves.
Aesthetics Bog-wood is characterized by natural staining and variations in color, and the direction of growth rings.
Rides Operating Coasters Defunct Coasters Flat rides X – Giant Discovery Revolution rotating 360° pendulum ride that opened in 2016; height limit 1.4m.
The captivity sparked outrage among animal rights groups and activists, including PETA and actress Pamela Anderson.
Coral reef tropical fish Many marine tropical fish, particularly those of interest to fishkeepers, are those that live among or in close relation to coral reefs.
Here you can find; two tropical marine tanks, red bellied piranha, an octopus, sea horses, moray eels, crayfish plus stonefish and pufferfish in the Poisonous and Venomous fish tank.
See also Aqua Planet Aqua Planet 63 Hanwha Group Notes External links Official website Official website(en)
Main species Conservation Sea Life Arizona provides permanent homes for injured or disabled aquatic creatures who would have otherwise been killed or euthanized.
An official at Aqua Planet Jeju explained that "the cause of death of fish is chronic renal failure and there is no cure", but public opinion moved to release the remaining whale shark, so it was tagged and released.
In 2020, the museum was temporarily closed to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus infection (COVID-19), but reopened in mid-May, and the total number of visitors since its opening exceeded 320,000 in June.
In August 2014 the organizations Wildlife Watcher Singapore, in collaboration with Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, reported sub-standard living conditions for the animals.
As of 2025, AQWA houses over 45 unique displays showcasing native Western Australian marine life and living corals, many of which are endemic to WA's waters.
On 10 April 2014, a 50-year-old man on holiday from Hubei, China, fell to his death after sitting on a railing.
The third floor featured a photographic gallery of Sisterna's travels and of oceanography generally, as well as a vantage point towards the lower the floors designed to visually integrate the aforementioned displays.
An animal theme park, also known as a zoological theme park, is a combination of an amusement park and a zoo, mainly for entertainment, amusement, and commercial purposes.
In addition to ecological exhibits, specimens of deep-sea fish and minke whales are also on display.
It features a replica of Edinburgh Place Ferry Pier's clock tower and its signature toll, a manually retrofitted heritage tramcar and rows of tong lau-style apartment buildings.
Major fishery areas are in the waters off the United States (Hawaii, Florida), Fiji Islands, Australia, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Indonesia.
Jewish and Israeli causes Marcus co-founded the Israel Democracy Institute in 1991, contributing $5 million for the construction of the institute's building in Jerusalem's Talbiya neighborhood and investing hundreds of millions of shekels in its ongoing operation over the years.
The creatures burrow and overturn the top two to three inches of sand in search of food, which causes water to circulate deeper in the sand than it would if the creatures were not present.
According to a report by the National Geographic “tens of millions of marine animals” are collected each year, more than half of them ending up in the US.
Deep sand beds may be made of a variety of materials, but typically fine or "superfine" sand is used, with a grain size between 1 mm and 0.05 mm.
Career Marcus initially worked at a drugstore as a pharmacist but later moved to the retailing side of the business.
In addition, some sumps have a compartment that can be converted into a refugium, helping to filter out excess nutrients such as nitrates.
Population In the Bay of Islands north of Auckland, New Zealand, the population of wild bottlenose dolphins shrank by 90 percent – from approximately 270 to only 30 – during a period of 20 years.
With the former Sea Base Alpha open, work progressed on the new queue areas and the Seacabs were being rebuilt as a new "Clamobile" attraction.
History Coral World opened in 1978, as Coral World International's second marine park, following Coral World Underwater Observatory in Eilat, Israel.
In addition to research laboratories and amphitheaters, the institute contained the Centre de la Mer et des Eaux dedicated to educating the public about marine life and related environmental issues.
One advantage is that medicated food does not contaminate the aquatic environment and also, unlike bath treatments, does not negatively affect fish, filtration and algae growth in the aquarium.
The facility also houses a 4-metre (13 ft) high 450,000-litre (120,000 US gal) tank for viewing coral reef marine life, where typical reef life is grown using natural sunlight.
Manly Sea Life Sanctuary (formerly Oceanworld Manly) was a public aquarium located in Manly, Sydney, Australia.
The hotel faced controversy in 2010 following the captivity of a whale shark, nicknamed Sammy, in an aquarium exhibit for 18 months.
Great Rock (Gran Piedra) The Great Rock is a large rock of volcanic origin, measuring 51 m (167 ft) long, 25 m (82 ft) high, and 30 m (98 ft) wide.
Sometimes, a vigorous cleaning of the filter is enough to seriously disturb the biological balance of an aquarium.
Other objects found in an aquarium can also be added and rearranged on some software, like treasure chests and giant clams that open and close with air bubbles, or a bobbing diver.
This mixture is deliberately simplified and excludes organic matter or biological nutrients so that the chemical environment is reproducible from batch to batch.
Aquarium maintenance Brackish water species can be kept mainly the same as standard freshwater aquaria, but a hydrometer is used to check the salinity of the water.
The use of unfiltered seawater allows animals to grow in the aquarium's plumbing, so it must occasionally be cleaned with tools called pigs, which blast through the pipes under pressure to remove organisms and debris.
Other featured animals include the rare leafy seadragons, weedy seadragon, moon jellyfish, clownfish, juvenile saltwater crocodiles, octopus, cuttlefish, rock lobsters, scorpionfish, eagle ray, sandbar shark, Port Jackson shark, rescued sea turtles and many more.
See also SeaWorld SeaWorld Orlando Turtle Talk with Crush, a Walt Disney World attraction References External links Website Falcon's Treehouse website
In 2024, it was visited by former NASA astronaut Steven Swanson, and a starfish was named "Steve" in his honor.
Switzerland: Dolphinariums are not technically prohibited, but there have been no dolphinariums in Switzerland since 2013, and it is practically impossible to set up and run a new one.
However, the exhibit temporarily closed in 2019 for waterproofing repairs as the penguins were moved back into the 1968 exhibit.
History The oceanarium was developed by the Western Australian Development Corporation in the late 1980s.
At this time electronic feeders are not able to adjust to the changing needs of the fish over longer periods which may result in either overfeeding or underfeeding.
Hotel The 1,544 room nautically themed resort has two accommodation wings, consisting of the East and the West Tower.
The total project cost was approximately 7 billion yen, and the goal was to attract 1.2 million visitors in the first year.
Only 2 to 5% of the total is changed monthly, thanks to the 10 filters that keep the water clean with 22 different modules.
Designs Dutch style The Dutch aquarium employs a lush arrangement in which multiple types of plants having diverse leaf colors, sizes, and textures are displayed much as terrestrial plants are shown in a flower garden.
Generally the more moisture a particular example of fish food contains, the more readily it will deteriorate in quality.
The Aquarium of Western Australia (AQWA) is a privately owned aquarium in Hillarys, Western Australia.
Built for the 1967 World's Fair (Expo 67), the two-building site operated for nearly a quarter of a century in La Ronde before shutting down in 1991.
The park gave up the dolphinarium in 2016 and the dolphins were safely transported to Attica Zoological Park in Greece.
The very small segment corner that remains of the main aquarium building (formerly used as a food concessions stand) is now used as a Pass Building: "Zone Groupes - Route 67".
Adachi dealt with a similar situation, a brother and sister who are not related by blood, in his earlier series Miyuki.
Some fish will never accept anything but live food, typically these specimens are fed on gut packed guppies, mollies, or ghost shrimp.
Regulation The industry is largely unregulated and lacks a central data base to assess its impact upon the environment.
The theme park's flagship attractions include a launch roller coaster, a river rapids ride, and a killer whale show and exhibit.
It was later reported that both Apple co-founder Steve Jobs and talk show host Jay Leno had iMacquariums.
Palma Aquarium has received several awards, including the "Best Business Initiative in Balearics 2007" award, awarded by Actualidad Económica magazine and the "2007 Accessibility Award", awarded by the Consell de Mallorca.
PopCultureShock's Sam Kusek comments on the interactions between the main characters, saying, "[Umi, Sora and Ruka] all share something in common, the fact that they are outsiders from the norm.
The company that owned Zoomarine Roma for a long time, Mundo Aquático, SA, was founded by Argentinian Pedro Lavia.
In the theatre, seating was provided where visitors would sit down and watch the show from the viewing windows of the aquarium.
The Africarium (Polish: Afrykarium) is a oceanarium in Wrocław, Poland, devoted to exhibiting the fauna of Africa.
It is based on the manga of the same title by Daisuke Igarashi, who also wrote the film's screenplay.
A penguinarium is a vivarium for penguins intended to simulate aspects of their natural environment.
Visitors can also upgrade their entry to include a Behind the Scenes Pass or Glass-Bottom Boat Ride.
Displays include those of coral and other tropical species, as well as a dolphinarium and sea lion shows.
The seahorse conservation program is a success, and since 2002 thousands of seahorses have been released into the Red Sea.
During this period, William Alford Lloyd sold aquariums at his shop in London, which also provided aquarium maintenance services to customers.
The facility was not constructed to house cetaceans, and instead utilizes the 27 species of marine mammals that live in or travel through Monterey Bay as one of its "exhibits", as guests can view the bay and marine mammals from decks along the back of the building.
Coastal areas The third section of Cretaquarium is called "Coastal areas" and it displays the biotopes of the coastal zone.
Animals Species Various species of dolphins are kept in captivity as well as several other small whale species such as harbour porpoises, finless porpoises and belugas, though in those cases the word dolphinarium may not be fitting as these are not true dolphins.
Deep-Sea Aquarium Magmell (マグメル深海水族館, Magumeru Shinkai Suizokukan) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Kiyomi Sugishita.
The sump sits below the main tank, and is used as a filter, as well as a holding place for unsightly, miscellaneous equipment such as protein skimmers, calcium reactors, and heaters.
Eddystone Reef The Eddystone Reef exhibit is the largest local sea life exhibit in Britain, housing life-size models of whales and dolphins located around the island.
In December 2020, Natividad Medical Center in Salinas was loaned a deep-freeze fridge from the Aquarium in order to allow the hospital to store the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at -94 degrees Fahrenheit.
Hammond and his team were more successful in Japan and the Penghu Islands, where they chose to procure dolphins from fishermen who engaged in dolphin drive hunting.
"Shark World" The "Shark World" exhibit is a huge exhibit containing 3,000,000 L (790,000 US gal) of water, and featuring 20 shark species, rays and corals.
The Islands of Australasia exhibit is a large indoor exhibit that showcases animals from Australia and Asia.
The DomAquarée complex also contained offices, a museum, a restaurant, and the Berlin Sea Life Centre aquarium.
Though some are just living at the water margins, still, they can live in the completely submerged habitat.
Most aquarium tunnels are cylindrical in shape, though tunnels can be made elliptical (to make them wider and still keep the top of the tunnel closer to the visitors), or even square.
A larger particle size increases circulation, which in turn requires greater depth to establish anaerobic areas.
The museum offers educational exhibits on Bermuda’s geology and marine biology, making it a comprehensive learning experience.
On September 4, 2003, the National Aquarium Society and the Board of Governors for the National Aquarium in Baltimore announced an alliance, in which the National Aquarium in Baltimore would operate the D.C.
Arcana Project also performed the second opening theme "Tomedonai Shiosai ni Bokutachi wa Nani o Utau darō ka" (とめどない潮騒に僕たちは何を歌うだろうか; lit.
The Friends of Madagascar exhibit displays animals from Madagascar, most of which can be found only in Madagascar because they developed in isolation on one of the largest islands in the world.
The acrylic panels were custom-made, which delayed the construction schedule, and the opening was postponed from July 2008 to mid-November 2008.
History Some of the aquariums now called Sea Life predate this rebrand and existed under different designations prior to their consolidation.
Because of its small capacity relative to most other aquariums, the Macquarium is considered a form of nano aquarium, which requires a higher level of diligence to maintain proper water chemistry and cleanliness.
Postage Stamps In October 2022, the aquarium released motifs for sea cauliflowers, and in April 2023, released motifs for seahorses.
Species on display Fish that can be seen at the aquarium include eels, angelfish, glowlight tetra, hockey stick tetra, red-tail shark, catla, Indian tiger barb, mahseer, freshwater prawns, blue gourami, pearl gourami, gold fish, moon tail, and more.
There are thousands more species in the museum on the first floor, reflecting in part the collection acquired by King Carlos I.
This is usually because they're either too big for most commercial aquariums (ex: giant salamanders), are endangered (ex: achoques), haven't entered the pet trade yet, or a mix of the three.
stripes, striped shrimp Caridina caerulea, blue leg Poso shrimp Caridina gracilirostris, red-nose shrimp, Pinocchio shrimp Caridina cf.
A water pump may be added to help with water flow, similar to the conditions of a slow-moving river.
Open Sea wing In 1996, Monterey Bay Aquarium opened a second wing of aquatic exhibits, focusing on the pelagic habitats found 60 miles (97 km) offshore in Monterey Bay.
The aquarium also has a BioHut nursery for marine organisms as part of the Ocean Connections project.
Gatwick Zoo Gatwick Zoo was opened in 1973 by Terry and Sheila Thorpe and was closed in September 2002.
Re-opening was announced for March and then October 2005, additional funds were allocated by the city in the 2007-2008 budget, the 2008-2009 budget, and again in the 2009-2010 budget, but the aquarium remains closed.
He also commends on Igarashi's "earthy art, with its busy line work and crosshatching and unsophisticated figure drawing, grounds this series in reality, which makes the moments of enchantment all the more breathtaking." He also recommends the manga to those who liked Inio Asano's Solanin.
Langford was put in charge of the Aston Hall and Park Company, but the Park suffered from a number of disasters.
Another display is home to one of the world's most deadly snakes, the banded sea krait Laticauda Colubrina.
Bueng Chawak (Thai: บึงฉวาก, pronounced [bɯ̄ŋ t͡ɕʰā.wàːk]) or full name Bueng Chawak Chaloem Phra Kiat (บึงฉวากเฉลิมพระเกียรติ, [bɯ̄ŋ t͡ɕʰā.wàːk t͡ɕʰā.lɤ̌ːm pʰráʔ kìa̯t]) is a natural freshwater lake in central Thailand.
In 2002 the aquarium underwent a NZ$8 million extension and renovation which included the addition of a 1.5 million litre oceanarium with a 50m acrylic tunnel and the replacement of all the original tanks with newly constructed ones.
Whole wheat (carbohydrates) is not the best source of energy in fish but is an excellent source of roughage for fish such as Goldfish and Koi.
Wyndham Zoological Gardens and Crocodile Park Former zoo located at Wyndham, Western Australia, which specialized in displaying crocodiles and alligators.
Because of the lack of crowds in this area, the holding rooms are no longer in use (along with the preshow videos), rather guests can walk freely from the tanks and to the film, which played constantly.
With a height of 153 ft (47 m), Emperor is the tallest, fastest, and longest dive coaster in California.
It opened on 15 June 2009 and is one of the Sea Life Centres in Europe, which are owned by Merlin Entertainments.
The experience stopped being offered in October of 2024, when the dolphins were removed from the exhibit and moved to other facilities.
History The Lower Grounds were originally the kitchen, private gardens, and fish-ponds belonging to Aston Hall.
In January 2017, Merlin Entertainments Indian subsidiary stated that it was in discussion with real estate firms to open Sea Life centres in multiple cities in India.
'Amazonia' is a small indoor area containing tank of snakes, lizards, fish, caimans and a collection of others.
In 2021, the National Oceanic Atmospheric Association (NOAA) in the United States banned tourists and residents from swimming with wild spinner dolphins in Hawaii.
The director stated, "If not for the new coronavirus, I would have hoped to have reached this milestone around this time last year.
Sea Lion and Otter Spotlight (previously named "Sea Lions Live"): a new educational presentation featuring California sea lions and Asian small-clawed otters.
The Group owned aquariums in Melbourne, Mooloolaba, Busan and manages the Ocean World Aquarium in Shanghai.
History The aquarium opened on June 22, 1962, during the Century 21 Exposition and was initially owned and operated by Ted Griffin.
Later additions to the park include an 80,000 US gallons (303,000 L) circular Caribbean Reef Encounter tank, which houses local fish and other sea life, and an enclosure for South American sea lions.
A material known as a "phosphate sponge" is available at aquarium shops to leach the phosphate out of the aquarium and reduce the growth of algae.
Plot The story takes place in a world which diverged from ours in 1888, when a mysterious explosion killed Queen Victoria and her entire immediate family, with the exception of Duke "Eddy" of Clarence, who survived as a brain damaged cripple and was thus unable to succeed to the throne.
According to Geetha, "The book does not propound a theory of patriarchy; rather, it points to those areas of reality and traditions of knowledge that we might need to draw upon to define patriarchy.
79) -- Եղիշե Unknown Historic catholicoi / primates Catolicoi primates appointed by Armenian Apostolic Church (fourth century – c.
In December 276, based on his promise to his late wife, the emperor married Yang Zhi and created her empress.
The Catholicos of Armenia and All Armenians claims sovereignty over the Catholicos of Cilicia, though the latter operates independently.
At the time, Huan Wen was carrying out the northern expedition, and military affairs are handed over to Wang Xun; tens of thousands of people, both military and civilian, knew him.
Catholicoi of Cilicia (Name in English, dates, Armenian name) The Catholicoi of the Great House of Cilicia (the traditional name of the Holy See) include: Sivas era (1058–1062), Tavbloor era (1062–1066) Khachik II of Armenia, Khachik II of Ani, Khachik II of Cilicia (1058–1065) -- Խաչիկ Բ.
630 — Քրիստափոր Բ Ապահունի Ezra (630–641) -- Եզր Ա Փառաժնակերտցի Nerses III the Builder (641–661) -- Ներսես Գ Տայեցի (Շինարար) Anastasius I (661–667) -- Անաստաց Ա Ակոռեցի Israel I (667–677) -- Իսրայել Ա Ոթմսեցի Sahak III (677–703) -- Սահակ Գ.
William Wilson Chief Apostle of the New Apostolic Church: Jean-Luc Schneider President of the General Conference of the Seventh-day Adventist Church: Elder Erton Köhler President of the Baptist World Alliance: Tomás Mackey President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Dallin H.
Yelü Lübugu (Chinese: 耶律呂不古) or known by the title Princess of Yan State (Chinese: 燕国公主), was a Liao dynasty princess and the first daughter of Emperor Taizong of Liao.
History Jerusalem (in Latin also Hierosolyma) was one of the Apostles' original bishoprics (diocese).
According to Geetha, "Sexual violence has been blamed on a patriarchal backlash where the term 'patriarchy' is often synonymous with 'tradition'".
In 226, Cao Rui granted Cui Lin the landless title of a Secondary Marquis, and promoted him to Minister of the Household (光祿勳) and Colonel-Director of Retainers, one of the Three Venerables (三獨坐).
Biography Little is known about Li Han's personal life, beyond that he was an official in the 8th century.
The clan was first established in Xingyang county by Zheng Dangshi, son of Zheng Jun, a general who served under Xiang Yu.
Life Yang Xiu was a son of Yang Biao (楊彪) and a grandson of Yang Ci (楊賜); Yang Ci was a son of Yang Bing (楊秉), son of Yang Zhen (楊震) of the Yang clan of Hongnong.
His maternal grandmother was Wang Mengjiang, the only daughter of calligrapher, writer and politician Wang Xizhi.
It stars Natasha Richardson as Offred, Faye Dunaway as Serena Joy, and Robert Duvall as the Commander (Fred).
Du Xiao (杜曉) (died March 27, 913), courtesy name Mingyuan (明遠), was an official of the Chinese Tang dynasty and Later Liang, serving as a chancellor during Later Liang.
According to the study done by the Soor Center for Professional Therapy and Assessment, there is less objectification experienced by veiled women in comparison to unveiled women.
After riding for another 30 li (approximately 15 km), Cao Cao finally understood the hidden meaning behind those words and asked Yang Xiu to share his insights and see if he got it correct.
Yu Bing and Yu Yi's sister, Yu Wenjun was the mother of Emperor Cheng, and for this reason the brothers were able to have a strong presence in the state.
The following is a current list of the highest-ranking leaders in major Christian churches or denominations.
In addition, the layout of the house in such films (as well as Gothic novels) creates "spatial disorientation [that] causes fear and an uncanny restlessness".
With the consent of the Muslim authorities the bishopric was, from that moment onwards, again headed by a patriarch.
Members Maternal grandfather (外祖父, 外公) and maternal grandmother (外祖母，外婆) Maternal uncles and aunts Maternal cousins.
Historically, it was the duty of women to deliver these heirs for the sake of the perpetuation of the extant economic and social system.
The base text of the Records of the Three Kingdoms says that Cui Lin voluntarily gave up control of You Province to make way for Wu Zhi to unite the northern frontier forces, which Cui Lin considered a better way of dealing with the non-Han Chinese frontier peoples.
Jin dynasty During the Western Jin period, Wang Rong was a prominent scion of the clan, reaching the rank of Situ.
Wai sun (外孫) is equivalent to nü er de er zi (女兒的兒子; "daughter's son"), if you combine take the two major characters out and combine nü (女; "daughter") with zi (子; son), you get hao (好; good).
In 273, when Emperor Wu was seeking beautiful women to serve as his concubines, he initially put Empress Yang in charge of the selection process.
As the Qi army viewed Zheng as a civilian who did not know about military matters, they took few precautions.
They argue that the emphasis on traditional family structures ignores the diversity of modern families and the importance of women's rights to autonomy and career advancement.
For the next few years, Xie remained on the defensive and was given new important positions each year.
The earliest prominent members of this clan can be traced back to two brothers, Wang Rou and Wang Ze, of the Eastern Han dynasty.
Reign of Tuoba Yilu Tuoba Yilu and Liu Kun became sworn brothers, and as reward for helping him, Liu Kun petitioned the Jin court to bestow Yilu the title of Duke of Dai.
List of patriarchs Following the Council of Chalcedon in 451, a schism occurred in Egypt, between those who accepted and those who rejected the decisions of the council.
Emperor Houfei was a violent and unpredictable teenage emperor, and he often killed whoever he encountered.
Cui Dunli (崔敦禮) (596 – August 29, 656), né Cui Yuanli (崔元禮), courtesy name Anshang (安上), formally Duke Zhao of Gu'an (固安昭公), was an official, general, and diplomat of the Chinese Tang dynasty, serving as chancellor during the reign of Emperor Gaozong.
Feminism has a long tradition of examining the concept of patriarchy, and the book attempts to demonstrate that the nature, effect, and meanings of male authority and power can only be understood through the idea of patriarchy.
Emperor Gaozong initially wanted to spare Li Yuanjing and Li Ke, but at Cui's opposition did not do so.
Volodymyr (secular name Vasyl Omelianovych Romaniuk, Ukrainian: Василь Омелянович Романюк; 9 December 1923 – 14 July 1995) was a Ukrainian Eastern Orthodox priest and human rights activist who was Patriarch of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church – Kyiv Patriarchate from its founding until his death.
His military achievements were all the more remarkable due to his physical weaknesses; it was recorded that he was unable to ride a horse or shoot an arrow with significant force.
In 327, the ambitious general Su Jun, offended by Yu Liang's attempt to strip him of his military command, rebelled along with Zu Yue, and Su's forces quickly captured Jiankang in early 328, taking Empress Dowager Yu and Emperor Cheng hostage and forcing Yu to flee.
The Patriarch of the East Indies, a titular patriarchal see, united to Goa and Daman, established in 1886.
This type of traditional, village style cooperation is similar to a late 19th-century Russian system called obshchina.
During World War II, he studied at Kosiv within the General Government and was a member of the Organisation of Ukrainian Nationalists operating underground in opposition to the German occupation.
This is because they perceive resources they have as scarce and, possibly, their lifespan to be shorter, under the influence of father absence.
The Qin decided to send spies to the Zhao court, bribing key courtiers such as Guo Kai (郭開) and Han Cang (韓倉) to persuade the King of Zhao to replace Li Mu and Sima Shang (司馬尚) with Zhao Cong (趙蔥) and Yan Ju (顏聚) as generals by alleging that the former were planning a rebellion.
They feared that if either one of Cheng's sons were to ascend, their ties to the throne will become more distant which in turn will diminish their influence.
He was the final ruler of the Western Liao to come from the House of Yelü, as the throne would be usurped by his son-in-law Kuchlug in 1211.
Chokher Bali (চোখের বালি) is a 1903 Bengali novel by Rabindranath Tagore that revolves around the central character Binodini and her relationships with three individuals.
Ann Veronica created a sensation when published in the autumn of 1909 because of the feminist sensibilities of the heroine and also because of the affair Wells was having with Amber Reeves, the woman who inspired the novel's eponymous character.
Stimpson of Rutgers University described the book as having "the boldness, authority, and richness of The Second Sex." The book won the 1986 Joan Kelly Prize of the American Historical Association.
Medical services Medical services against a symbolic fee are provided at a clinic donated by the Jinishian Medical Fund.
In 901, Abaoji was elected chieftain of the Yila tribe and in 905 forged relations with Li Keyong of the Shatuo Turks.
As Tao Kan and Wen gathered their forces and marched against Su's, Wang persuaded Su's general Lu Yong (路永) to defect to Tao and Wen, and Wang and Lu fled Jiankang together, joining Tao and Wen's forces.
A majority of Church members are Arab citizens of Israel and Palestinian Arabs, and there are also a small number of Assyrians, Greeks and Georgians.
Yang Yan (楊艷) (238 – August 25, 274), courtesy name Qiongzhi (瓊芝), formally Empress Wuyuan (武元皇后, "the martial and discerning empress") was an empress of the Western Jin dynasty.
Liu Yu gained more and more power, at the expense of the Xie and the other old families, but at first was content to have the services of Xie Lingyun, nominally as an official of Jin.
The main positions are the following: 1466–1822 The chronology up to the year 1595 is somewhat disputed by authors.
He is regarded by Chinese folklore as one of the four Greatest Generals of the Late Warring States period, along with Bai Qi, Wang Jian, and Lian Po.
Anecdotes When Huan Yi (father of Huan Wen) first reached Sima Rui's domain from the north, he saw the weak Eastern Jin court and expressed his despair to Zhou Yi.
As a result, the Supreme Court ruled that anyone conducting such a test on a survivor would be considered guilty of misconduct.
Along similar lines, sons with absent fathers could have confused gender identities – if the son was separated from his father by age four, he would be less assertive, less involved in sport, less masculine than other boys and more dependent on his peers.
If a girl is found not to be a virgin, her father may have to pay a fine for "tainting" the community and the girl may be shunned from the "certified" virgins.
In April of 1990 he was tonsured as an archimandrite selecting name of Volodymyr and next day consecrated as Bishop of Uzhhorod and Vynohradiv.
Although the expansionary of urbanisation has increased in recent decades throughout China, agriculture still plays a role in gender bias.
Meanwhile, in a meeting in Buck's office his lawyers produce a trump card: no death certificate exists for Myron Breckinridge in New York, and if he is not dead his will has no legal bearing.
He was posthumously named Zhongchang and posthumously appointed Palace Attendant and Minister of Works.
Kinship structures tend to be weaker in northern China, with clan members that do not usually reside in the same village nor share property.
Tomorrow I Become a Woman is the debut novel by Nigerian writer Aiwanose Odafen, published in 2022 by Scribner UK, an imprint of Simon & Schuster.
Handmaids themselves are "untouchable", but their ability to signify status is equated to that of slaves or servants throughout history.
Pang Pang Clan rooted in Yichun, Jiangxi until Pang Kwai (彭桂) and his family relocated to Lung Yeuk Tau of Fanling.
Also prior to the founding of the PRC, certain aspects of taijiao (fetal education) were believed to help ensure a fetus would be male, and pregnant women might visit also a fortune teller in an effort to determine fetal sex.
Based on Yang Su's conduct during the campaign, the historian Sima Guang, in his Zizhi Tongjian, commented: When Yang Su commanded large armies, he showed flexibility and much tactical capability.
The emperor felt displeased because he thought that the Li family, the imperial family, should be the most prestigious one in his time.
In 811, it was said that because the eunuchs disliked having Li Jiang at the Hanlin Institute (where the imperial scholars resided), Li Jiang was made the deputy minister of census (戶部侍郎, Hubu Shilang).
He proposes that these three universal institutions, attested as they are across independent cultures, suggest a simple psychophysiological cause, since physiology remains constant, as do the institutions, even across variable cultures—a universal phenomenon suggests a universal explanation.
Together with Yi, Bing filled in his late brother's role and maintained their family's prominence in the court.
After Du Rangneng's death, Du Xiao mourned him bitterly, and even after the traditional three-year mourning period, he still partially wore mourning clothes for over a decade and did not embark on an official career.
However, Emperor Wu hesitated about selecting him as crown prince because he was developmentally disabled.
That night, every firstborn human, plant, and animal in Egypt dies, with the Angel of Death gleefully collecting each dead body.
He was from the "second house of northern ancestry" (北祖第二房) of the prominent Lu clan of Fanyang, although Lu Han's male line ancestors for several generations prior to his grandfather Lu Lübing (盧履冰), during the Tang dynasty, had not served as governmental officials.
The Cui clan of Qinghe lost their political privilege by the end of the Tang dynasty and dissolved into different social classes.
Later in fall 553, Emperor Wenxuan of Northern Qi prepared for an operation where he would try to impose Emperor Yuan's cousin Xiao Tui (蕭退) the Marquess of Xiangtan as Liang's emperor.
In light of Hou's defeat, Northern Qi seized nearly all of the formerly Liang territory north of the Yangtze River, and Wang and Chen had to fend themselves against Northern Qi attacks.
259), Cao Wei official and commander Wang Hun (223–297), son of Wang Chang, Cao Wei and Jin minister Wang Chen (d.
Furthermore, Zhao was diplomatically isolated as the Kingdoms of Wei, Yan, and Han were too weak to offer any kind of support, while Qi and Chu were more willing to see the kingdom extinguished than face the powerful Qin.
During the Northern Wei period, the Wang clan was considered one of the 'four surnames' – four powerful clans, alongside the Lu clan of Fanyang, the Cui clan of Qinghe and the Zheng clan of Xingyang.
For example, she read Jean-Jacques Rousseau's philosophical work on education, Emile, and his sentimental novel, La Nouvelle HéloÏse as well as Thomas Day's children's book The History of Sandford and Merton.
Conceiving children to provide bone marrow or organs for their sickly older siblings, a concept known as "savior siblings", has been derisively described by a derivative phrase: "the heir and the spare parts." See also Male heir Birth order Cadet (genealogy) References Further reading Morgan, E.
Jerusalem was granted autocephaly in 451 by the Council of Chalcedon and in 531 became one of the initial five patriarchates.
Taken to La Escuelita "The Little School", Partnoy endured violence and torture to be "taught a lesson".
Service under Emperor Qianfei In 464, Emperor Xiaowu died and was succeeded by his impulsive and violent son Emperor Qianfei.
Pakistan In Pakistan, the novel was adapted in 2010 by Sarmad Khoosat as a television series, Kalmoohi.
Xiao Tabuyan (Chinese: 蕭塔不煙; pinyin: Xiāo Tǎbùyān, died after 1150) was empress of the Western Liao dynasty (Qara Khitai) by marriage to her cousin Yelü Dashi (Emperor Dezong).
In 184, Lui Bei, Guan Yu, Zhang Fei, took the following legendary oath of brotherhood at the Peach Garden; in 200, Zhao Yun joined them to form the Four Brothers.
It was one of the most commonly used primers in the Tang and later periods, alongside the Qianziwen and the Xiaojing.
In clans or the empire, outer kins are usually not allowed to hold power because it disrupts the male-centered social order and network.
In winter 881, the Fengxiang officer Li Changyan, who was then stationed at Xingping (興平, in modern Xianyang, Shaanxi), provoked the soldiers and led them to return to Fengxiang in order to attack Zheng.
Career Xie Lingyun served as an official in the Eastern Jin, during which time the rebellion was quashed by general Liu Yu; however, this would turn out to be just a step in general Liu's career, later on he would overthrow the Eastern Jin dynasty and establish the Liu Song dynasty, as Emperor Wu.
The essentialness of androgen receptors to female fertility and ovary development has been proven by rodent studies.
Պատմութիւն Կաթողիկոսաց Կիլիկիոյ (1441-էն մինչեւ մեր օրերը) [History of the Cilician Catholicosate (From 1441 to our days)] Antelias: Dprevanuts, 1939.
Cultural and social media influences The influence of neopatriarchal ideas extends beyond the political sphere into popular culture, particularly on social media platforms.
In 593, Emperor Wen commissioned the construction of a summer vacation palace, Renshou Palace (仁壽宮), which is away from capital Chang'an.
The book, written from the female perspective, is part of the "Theorizing Feminism" series published by Stree (an imprint of Bhatkal and Sen).
He is also commemorated at Zhenbian Hall, a temple beside the Tianxian Gate at Yanmen Pass in Shanxi.
During Emperor Wen's reign In 581, Yang Jian had Emperor Jing yield the throne to him, ending Northern Zhou and establishing Sui dynasty as its Emperor Wen.
Traditionally, once a girl is married, she becomes part of her husband's family, which means she is no longer responsible for her parents' care as they age.
The kongsi is similar to modern business partnerships, but also draws on a deeper spirit of cooperation and consideration of mutual welfare.
Its aim was the convent-based rehabilitation of women, including prostitutes, thieves, the homeless, alcoholics etc.
History Northern and Southern dynasties The Wang clan generally did not move southwards after the Disaster of Yongjia and the fall of the Western Jin.
Genetic genealogy The fact that human Y-chromosome DNA (Y-DNA) is paternally inherited enables patrilines and agnatic kinships of men to be traced through genetic analysis.
In order to help Yu Yi, Yu Bing requested to be moved to border command, so the court place him in command of Jingzhou, Jiangzhou, Ningzhou, Yizhou, Lianzhou, Jiaozhou, Guangzhou and four commanderies of Yuzhou.
After the delivery, he returned to China with Kuratsukuri no Fukuri and some Japanese students who were prepared to complete their education in China (such as Takamuko no Kuromaro).
After 649, Pope Martin I appointed John of Philadelphia (Amman) as patriarchal vicar of Jerusalem to replace Sergius of Jaffa.
A transliteration in Devanagari script, with footnotes in Hindi, was also published by the Sahitya Akademi in 1961.
1434) The Catholicosate of the Church of Armenia moved to Cilicia and the Holy See of Cilicia was established in 1058.
Yang Jian's family was the Yang clan of Hongnong (弘農楊氏), which had Han origins but had intermarried with the Xianbei for generations.
Plot A beautiful young woman, Myra Breckinridge is a film enthusiast with a special interest in the Golden Age of Hollywood—in particular the 1940s—and the writings of film critic Parker Tyler.
Emperor Xianzong initially agreed with Li Jiang, but due to the eunuchs' opposition did not actually carry out the plan.
Printing press and media The patriarchate also runs a printing press, the first to be established in Jerusalem, which has now become capable of undertaking commercial color printing.
In the 21st century, son preference has been broadly documented in South and East Asia, but is also observable in Western countries.
The novel concludes with a metafictional epilogue, described as a partial transcript of an international historical association conference taking place in the year 2195.
'Is that plain?' she asked." Capes decides to throw over his employment at the college in order to live with Ann Veronica, and they enjoy a glorious "honeymoon" in the Alps.
Wang continued to advance east, and in fall 551, he joined forces with Chen Baxian, who had advanced north from Guang Province (廣州, modern Guangdong).
Poetry As a poet, Lu Lun is known for continuing the Frontier fortress genre of Tang poetry (along with Li Yi), begun earlier by the "Borders and Frontier Fortress Poets Group" (边塞诗派), in which are included Gao Shi, Cen Can, Wang Changling, Wang Zhihuan, Cui Hao, and Li Qi.
Around the new year 689, Empress Dowager Wu, who had by that point taken up permanent residence in the eastern capital Luoyang, made Pei the official in charge of the capital Chang'an.
Council of 363 In 363, another council met under Athanasius for the purpose of submitting to the new Roman Emperor Jovian an account of the truth faith.
A prolific author, Du Yu was a self-proclaimed addict of the Zuo Zhuan and wrote an influential commentary to it.
Before Liwei's death in 277, the Jin sowed discord among the Tuoba chieftains and coerced Liwei into killing his heir, Tuoba Shamohan.
Earls poses that his studies have male centric conclusions, as his explanations for lesbianism were rooted in women not having access to men.
Additionally, researchers have found that increasing levels of "gender indifference" and decreasing levels of son preference, for example as documented in Taiwan since 1990, can be correlated to maternal educational levels.
Alongside the Cui clan of Boling, the Lu clan of Fanyang and the Wang clan of Taiyuan, the Zhengs were one of the "Four Surnames" of Northern Wei.
Fictionalizing memories allows the authors to make their stories more emotional and powerful, and gives them revolutionary potential.
1140) – Բեժգեն Nerses II (1149–1155) – Ներսես Բ Stepanos III (1155–1195) – Ստեփանոս Գ Hovhannes VI (1195–1235) – Հովհաննես Զ Nerses III (1235–1262) – Ներսես Գ Stepanos IV (1262 – c.
Stanley forbids his adult daughter, a biology student at Tredgold Women's College and the youngest of his five children, to attend a fancy dress ball in London, causing a crisis.
Criticism Biblical patriarchy has been criticised for holding views that demean women and view them as property.
With Li Mu's death, the fall of Zhao became inevitable, and the state was swiftly crushed afterwards by Qin forces.
Kleinberg and Boris point to a dominant paradigm which promotes wage-earning fathers with financially dependent mothers, the exclusion of same-sex couples, and the marginalization of single-parent families.
Further, Chinese agrarian society influences sex preference, as agriculture is often perceived as men's work in China.
Benefit derives from the surplus income of ancestral shrines and homes, which is reinvested by the managers or shared out in yearly dividends.
Evidence indicating historical gynocracies survives mostly in mythology and in some archaeological records, although it is disputed by some authors, like Cynthia Eller in her book The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory.
In 825, when Liu Wu the military governor of Zhaoyi died and left a request to let his son Liu Congjian inherit the circuit, Li Jiang opposed, believing that the imperial government should send a replacement for Liu Wu quickly, and that if that occurred, Liu Congjian would not dare to resist.
1923–present Lengths of tenure Longest-reigning patriarchs Bartholomew (1991–present): 34 years, 203 days Sergius I (610–638): 28 years, 7 months and 21 days.
Since the Zhou Dynasty, traditional Chinese society has been structured around networks of male kins who controlled rituals and the traditions of warfare, while maternal cousins had no right to intervene.
He posits explanations as to what patriarchy is and isn't, how it works, and what gets in the way of understanding and doing something about it.
Traditionally, agnatic succession is applied in determining the names and membership of European dynasties.
Virginity testing is widely considered controversial because of its implications for the tested women and girls as it is viewed as unethical, and because such tests are widely considered to be unscientific.
Saint John was himself associated with the apostolic throne of Ephesus, although this apostolic see has been canonically vacant since 1922.
His territory supposedly spanned from the Yemaek in the east to the Fergana in the west, and from the Yin Mountains in the south to the northern edge of the desert.
Whatever he suggested was not refused, and so Yang Su's followers, even if their contributions were small, would be rewarded for their contributions.
In 2019, the Maharashtra state government announced that it intended to make virginity tests for brides a punishable offence, describing the practice as form of sexual assault.
She blends elements of testimonio with survival narratives during the National Liberation Movement (Movimiento).
Ann Veronica was included in the Modern Library in 1917, the year the publishing company was founded.
Elsewhere, Sandlin argues that a "renewed patriarchalism in some quarters is working for hegemony over the other legitimate spheres of God’s authority." In other words, the authority of the father dominates other authority structures in the church and in society.
The metaphor of the tree is not only useful in illustrating the patriarchal system, but in other systems of oppression as well, such as classism, racism, or ableism (Johnson, 2013).
She returns to her father's home and engages herself to marry an admirer she does not love, Hubert Manning.
Members Father and mother (父母; fùmǔ) ― the mother is "transplanted" (嫁; jià) to father by her family of origin (原生家庭; yuánshēng jiātíng).
She served as the regent of the empire for her son, Yelü Yilie (Emperor Renzong), during his minority from 1143 to 1150.
Prior to Yang Xiu's death, Cao Cao had written a letter to his father Yang Biao, reproaching him for his son's arrogance.
With this money, Ann Veronica is able to devote herself to study in the biological laboratory of the Central Imperial College (a constituent college of London University) where she meets and falls in love with Capes, the laboratory's "demonstrator." But Mr.
Cui Hao's family, a cadet branch of the Cui clan of Qinghe, was exterminated during the Northern Wei, but other branches of the clan survived.
Later that year, he was made Neishi (內史)—the head of the legislative bureau of government (鳳閣, Fengge) and a post considered one for a chancellor.
Athanasius and Eusebius of Vercelli presided over the council, and Athanasius read his Apologia de Fuga aloud to the attendees, who included some Marmaricans.
Oaks Presiding Bishop of the Church Of God In Christ Inc.: John Drew Sheard, Sr Executive Minister of Iglesia ni Cristo: Eduardo V.
In contemporary politics In recent years, the concept of neopatriarchy has gained significant attention in political discourse, particularly within conservative movements in the United States.
The Cui clan of Boling (博陵崔氏) was a notable Chinese clan of noble descent which was politically active from the Han dynasty to the end of the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period.
A male heir (sometimes heirs male)—usually describing the first-born son (primogeniture) or oldest surviving son of a family—has traditionally been the recipient of the residue of the estate, titles, wealth and responsibilities of his father in a patrilineal system.
After Emperor Min was also captured by Han, Wang was one of the officials who urged Sima Rui to take the throne, and he did, initially claiming the title "Prince of Jin" in 317 and then emperor in 318 after Emperor Min was executed by Han.
The miaphysites became the Coptic Church (part of Oriental Orthodoxy) and the Chalcedonians became the Greek Orthodox Church of Alexandria (part of the wider Eastern Orthodox Church).
This is a list of the Armenian catholicoi of Cilicia of the Holy See of Cilicia (full name: the Armenian Catholicosate of the Great House of Cilicia, Armenian: Կաթողիկոսութիւն Հայոց Մեծի Տանն Կիլիկիոյ).
Ancient Church of the East Subsequently, after three years of the seat of the Ancient Church of the East remaining vacant (1964–1967), Mar Thoma Darmo was elected as Catholicos-Patriarch in October 1968.
During Yuchi's campaign, Zhou princes like Yuwen Xian Prince of Bi and Yuwen Zhao made attempts to assassinate Yang, but failed.
Members of Sarva Jaateeya Venain Khap, one of the largest khap panchayats in Haryana, have instead said there are no female khap members because they feel uncomfortable attending, not because they are not allowed.
In many cases, women are praised for their ability to "have it all", but they are also criticized if they fail to meet the high expectations placed on them.
In Western societies, the concept of neopatriarchy has gained attention in the analysis of certain political and cultural movements that advocate for a return to traditional family values and gender roles.
After becoming empress, Lady Yang, in gratitude, arranged for Zhao Jun to be promoted; Zhao Jun's niece Zhao Can (赵粲; daughter of his elder brother Zhao Yu (赵虞)) was also made Sima Yan's concubine.
Reception Carol Tavris writes in the Wall Street Journal that "[Rosin] avoids the journalistic habit of doing 'spotlight interviews' with individuals selected to support the writer's hypothesis, a practice she knows is misleading.
On 23 August 2004, Destiny Church organised a large public rally known as the "Enough is Enough" march in Wellington to oppose the Fifth Labour Government's proposed Civil Union Act.
Although, returning home from the monastery in 399, when he would have been in his mid-teens, Xie retained a lifelong Buddhist practice.
Producing male offspring and securing their enduring loyalty is paramount to the life-long project of gaining security, safety, and authority over her daughters-in-law.
Yang Su spent much effort building it to be a luxurious palace, needing not much architectural work but landscaping of the nearby hills and valleys.
At some point, Cui Youfu passed the imperial examinations, and he later served as the sheriff of Shou'an County (壽安, in modern Luoyang, Henan).
By virtue of this multi-provincial oversight, the sees of Rome, Alexandria and Antioch were already exercising a "supra-metropolitan" jurisdiction, later termed as Patriarchates.
Not all of the apostles are associated with specific "thrones"; in general, the phrase applies to apostles who presided over a specific geographic church.
Additionally, it was still widely acclaimed and used in Korea and Japan for centuries; it was noted as having been used to educate Imperial Prince Sadayasu, fourth son of Emperor Seiwa.
This training makes patriarchy appear natural, as though it were determined by biology, when in fact it is a social convention or a political relationship.
A special Pan-Orthodox Synod was convened in Constantinople (Istanbul) to review the decision of the Holy Synod of Jerusalem.
McGuire claimed that the patriarch accepted the African Orthodox Church as an Orthodox jurisdiction, but would not afford it communion with Eastern Orthodoxy until it demonstrated stability and growth.
Two out of the five major branches remained in Hong Kong (Ping Shan and Kam Tin) while the other three moved back to mainland China.
His paternal grandfather was the general Xie Xuan, a general who is best known for repelling the Former Qin army at the Battle of Fei River, thus preventing the Former Qin emperor Fu Jiān from destroying Jin, and thus allowing the continuation of the southern dynastic kingdoms.
In this genre, the alliances and adversarial relationships between the women in the back courtyard are often given an equal amount of attention as any romantic relationship with the male characters.
Earlier, she uploaded some scenes-in-progress to Vimeo and YouTube, including the opening "God-Mother" number in 2017, and "Death of the Firstborn Egyptians" in 2014, the latter gaining 2.7 million views by August 2020.
Later, when Wang found out from imperial archives the petitions that Zhou had submitted on his behalf, he mourned and gave a famous quote, which later became a Chinese idiom: Although I did not kill Boren(伯仁), Boren died because of me!
People like Cao Cao always wanted to mystify themselves and have political secrets which could not be arbitrarily shared with anyone.
It was also translated under its original title by Sukhendu Ray (2005) and Radha Chakravarty (2012).
The Cui clan of Qinghe (Chinese: 清河崔氏) was an eminent Chinese family of high-ranking government officials and Confucian scholars.
At the time that Wang Xun married Xie Wan's daughter, his brother Wang Min also married Xie An's daughter.
The day after the refusal, Department of Health and Human Services announced that the strict background requirement for sponsor households would be reversed, expediting the rate of sponsorship placements.
Background The first individual outside the band to hear the song was sixteen-year-old Kenny Sykaluk of Rocky River, Ohio, who was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis.
Apotropaic wards against als include methods used against other demons (such as charms, prayers, iron objects, onions, and garlic), and preventing the al from reaching water.
Being retained a grade, especially while in middle or high school, is one of the strongest predictors of dropping out.
All the circumstances, including the clinical picture, must be taken into account." The court did not believe the "unified hypothesis", proposed by British physician J.
United States In the United States, boys are often homosocial, and gender role performance determines social rank.
Palestine Children day (Arabic: يوم الطفل الفلسطيني) is celebrated in the State of Palestine on 5 April.
Physical signs can include grab-type bruise on the arms or chest, and lack of smiling or vocalization.
This describes the strong feelings one gets when admiring someone's pleasantly chubby appearance, causing an urge to pinch, squeeze, or smother the person in kisses.
Modern research in the field of affective neuroscience (the neural mechanisms of emotion) has uncovered important links between role play and neurogenesis in the brain.
But this is the policy of the Trump administration." Then-Speaker of the House Paul Ryan stated his disapproval of the Trump Administration's policy towards separating children from their parents.
The difference between the two is often degree (duration, amount of force, object used) rather than intent".
Minsthorpe Community College in South Elmsall was used as a location for the school scenes in episode 2, filmed over 1 week during 2024's summer.
After the teacher does so, those kids will run under the parachute and switch places with another kid.
The United States Department of Labor lists the minimum requirements for agricultural work in each state.
The international awards began in 1983 and were modelled after the programs sponsored by the national organizations.
the maintenance or expansion of services and absence of budget cuts) showed positive effects, particularly for family and mothers' outcomes.
Rather than simply blocking off large portions of the Internet, many schools utilize customizable web filtering systems that provide them with greater control over which sites are allowed and which are blocked.
Often this is done by grabbing the other person's feet, raising them, and then placing one's own foot on their crotch and vibrating it.
In June 2009, the BBC's Finlo Rohrer wrote that, 58 years since publication, the book is still regarded "as the defining work on what it is like to be a teenager." Out of all teen demographics over the years, troubled and depressed teens seem to have a greater tendency to relate with Holden.
Its goal is to reduce pain, anxiety, loneliness and fear when children are hospitalized or diagnosed with a debilitating medical condition.
In those with the disease, antibiotics are useful if started within three weeks of the initial symptoms, but otherwise have little effect in most people.
At the same time, the IEE cells change in shape from cuboidal to columnar and become preameloblasts.
Pudding Pops came in variety packs of chocolate, vanilla and chocolate vanilla swirl, which had 90 calories per serving, three grams of fat, and fifteen grams of carbohydrates.
It is not uncommon for adult musical organizations to employ numerous rhythm players, as in Latin American music, or to distribute rhythm instruments for audience members to accompany a live performance.
The sound is produced when trapped air from a belch is unable to release and travels to the stomach where the muscles of the intestines tighten to force the air bubble out.
Donoghue herself received honours for her adaptation of her novel, including Best Adapted Screenplay at the 4th Canadian Screen Awards and Best Scriptwriter at the 13th Irish Film & Television Awards.
Browne, who worked three jobs and had already spent $60,000 on her daughter's pageant career, hired Butler and King to help Brooner reach the next level of pageant competition.
Cultural and historical context The Kinderbeobachtungsstation operated during a period of postwar Austrian reconstruction, marked by cultural anxieties about sexuality, single motherhood, and juvenile delinquency.
The Kempe Center and The Kempe Foundation are currently located at The Gary Pavilion at Children's Hospital (Aurora, Colorado).
Dynamics Son preference in China There is a cultural preference for having sons over daughters in China.
History The ministry was created as an amalgamation of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Community Development, Gender and Children under John Magufuli's 2015 cabinet.
The company is listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (1086:HK) and operates brands such as Goodbaby, GB, Cybex, Evenflo, CBX, Rollplay, Happy Dino, Urbini, and other branded kids-children's products.
Meaning: Om Hyang Widhi Wasa in manifestation, welcome this, without exception welcomes big and small, allow me to beg if the spirit of the baby might go to East, South, West, North, and be in the Middle, to always get protection from Gods.
Good enough mother is a concept deriving from the work of Donald Winnicott, in his efforts to provide support for what he called "the sound instincts of normal mothers...stable and healthy families".
The family separation policy under the first Trump administration was a controversial immigration enforcement strategy implemented in the United States from 2017 to 2018, aimed at deterring illegal immigration by separating migrant children from their parents or guardians.
Summary Part 1 – A Tidal Wave Haidt examines statistics for those under 18 on a number of mental health criteria, including mental health diagnoses such as anxiety disorders and major depression, self-harm episodes, and suicide rates.
For instance, cultural differences place Vietnamese refugee youth at a higher risk of pursuing disruptive behaviour.
The investigators conducted more than 500 interviews, and forensics experts tested the DNA of more than 70 potential suspects.
The song reached the top five on charts in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Ecuador, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Russia, Slovakia, and Switzerland.
In the martial art of bojutsu, a bo is used as a weapon, increasing the force delivered in a strike, through leverage.
Nowak-Vogl's methods were shaped by her training in Heilpädagogik, a field with roots in Nazi eugenics and a focus on producing compliant, productive citizens.
Each episode features three young African-American girls and their mothers as they compete in one of the system's pageants.
Upward Sports partners with churches in the US and Canada to bring youth sports ministry in their local communities.
The doctrine has since been adopted in some other common law jurisdictions, such as Canada, but not universally.
But in principle, a rhythm band can be made in every age, with more difficult rhythms if the participants are older.
Several characters created by Hayao Miyazaki are considered icons of the bishōjo boom, particularly Clarisse from Lupin III: Castle of Cagliostro (1979), Lana from the TV series Future Boy Conan (1978), and Nausicaä from his manga and film Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984).
List of ministers Asha Gelle Dirie Anisa Hajimumin Maryan Ahmed Ali– current References External links Official homepage 8.406694°N 48.4574328°E﻿ / 8.406694; 48.4574328
Assassination of Shinzo Abe and its impacts on the shūkyō nisei On 8 July 2022, Tetsuya Yamagami assassinated former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe while he was campaigning in Nara for a candidate in the upper house election.
Diana Simone, a Texas resident who had been following the news, contacted the KDMX radio station and proposed broadcasts to engage passers-by in helping locate missing children.
Vietnam Corporal punishment is technically unlawful in schools under article 75 of the Education Law 2005, but there is no clear statement that corporal punishment is prohibited.
As a result, the available statistics are widely thought to underestimate the actual scope of the problem.
Adeona and Abeona monitor the child's comings and goings Interduca and Domiduca accompany it leaving the house and coming home again.
"A Model Prekindergarten through 4th Year of College (P-16) Individual Graduation Plan Proposal." Applied Research Projects, Texas State University-San Marcos.
Baby Back Home receives an average of 50 inquiries a day from abducted children and their parents; Baby Back Home gives blood samples to the ministry for DNA testing.
James Baldwin – raised by his stepfather who was a preacher and his novel Go Tell it on the Mountain relates to this.
As the scheme expanded throughout the rest of the province, it was given the name of Beavers in 1966, having been a name considered by Robert Baden-Powell when The Boy Scouts Association created its Wolf Cubs.
It was there that for the first time, the spirit of sports was combined with the sensuous art of classical ballet.
Clark Blaise is a Canadian-American author and former director of the International Writing Program.
Limitations in research Like many other complementary and alternative medicine modalities, many research studies reporting benefit from pediatric massage have been small in scale and vulnerable to bias.
The courts will evaluate each "child" on a case-by-case basis to see if the "child" qualifies as a youth.
Turner and Paris would classify these quizzes as "closed tasks." They concluded that open-ended tasks are more supportive of literacy growth in the future.
For example, the smoking and drinking age in the United States is 21, and younger people below this age are sometimes called minors in the context of tobacco and alcohol law, even if they are at least 18.
Maimonides interpreted Deuteronomy 22:4 to command that one should not unload the animal and depart, leaving the wayfarer in panic, but one should lift up the animal together with its owner, and reload the animal's burden on it.
According to prevailing, general attitudes these people—the pride of their parents—should have had a strong stable sense of self-assurance.
Cost of day care The Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives (CCPA) has been publishing their survey of fees for full-time, regulated child care for infants, toddlers and preschoolers in 37 cities across Canada since 2014, highlighting the least and most affordable options.
It was established in 1948 on an island in eastern Amsterdam, and allowed boys and girls to build simple strictures and play without adult supervision.
For every 14 children treated with antibiotics, one child has an episode of vomiting, diarrhea or a rash.
In December 2007, there were five "Babyboxes" in the republic: Prague-Hloubětín, Brno, Olomouc, Kadaň and Zlín, and the next were planned in Pelhřimov, Ústí nad Orlicí, Mladá Boleslav and Sokolov in 2008.
In the United States, childcare in regulated commercial or family childcare home setting is administered or led by teachers who may have a Child Development Associate or higher credentials.
Stauffer's animal crackers include bear, bison, camel, cow, cat, donkey, elephant, hippopotamus, horse, lion, mountain goat, rhinoceros, and tiger.
Launched first Upward Sports international league in Cape Town, South Africa 2006 – More than 400,000 children participated in Upward Sports for the first time.
It deals with health policy, community development, gender and policy related to the elderly and children.
Stop Child Abuse – Trace an Object is an online campaign by Europol that shows objects which appear in the background of child sexual abuse material footage.
Steele and Henry Silver, published the paper "The Battered-Child Syndrome", which led to the identification and recognition by the medical community of child abuse.
One organization might notify the other if there is reason to suspect that the border may be crossed.
It has been found that students enrolled in an early-immersion program learn the language being taught at an almost-native proficiency by age 11.
Sleeper effect With the view that children develop through adolescence by building on prior periods and that some effects of early experiences during child rearing might manifest later on in what is called as "Sleeper effect".
Wallace-Wells cited researchers like Amy Orben and Andrew Przybylski, who argue that the evidence connecting smartphones to declining well-being is weak and contested.
"Ichinensei Ni Nattara" (一年生になったら, "When I Become A First-Grader") is a Japanese-language children's song published in 1966.
Modern context Femboy (alternatively spelled femboi) is a modern slang term used to refer to a male who displays traditionally feminine characteristics, such as wearing dresses, skirts, and/or thigh-highs.
2 Travel a Dirt Road documentary on ASCHIANA "Factors Influencing Decisions to Use Child Labour: A Case Study of Poor Households in Kabul", by Paula Kantor and Anastasiya Hozyainova, AREU
By surviving the child's anger and frustration with the necessary disillusionments of life, the mothers would enable their child to relate to them on an ongoing and more realistic basis.
In the ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta), female infants are found to engage in social play more frequently than male conspecifics, although there are some conflicting reports.
Another resource for disabled adults is federal programs called Home- and Community-Based Services (HCBS).
When the sleepwalker urinates during a sleepwalking episode, they usually think they are in the bathroom, and therefore urinate where they think the toilet should be.
At its Tuesday evening meetings, members read short papers, sometimes controversial, mostly on natural history topics or about their research excursions.
The advertisement by Saatchi began on January 25 with Fruit by the Foot snacks including tips on various Nintendo 64 games on the wax paper.
ASCHIANA currently serves 4,500 students in Afghanistan through centers in Kabul, Mazar-i-Sharif, Herat and Parwan.
A 7 to 12 MHz probe is used for scanning superficial structures for detecting lesions between the brain and the skull, superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, cerebral oedema, and evaluating the structures of sulci and gyri.
Cosmopolitan magazine in past issues feature articles with titles like "The Sex Position He Craves" and "His Secret Pleasure Zone".
Thiesen said she "didn't understand a thing" of the queen's visit, and that her general unease of the experiment showed through in the photo, in which "none of us is smiling".
Playtoons is a series of linked games, released in 1994 by Sierra On-Line, which allow players to make their own animations using a variety of characters, backgrounds, scenery and props from either a single game or a mixture from the full series.
I Love You, You Hate Me A two-part documentary miniseries titled I Love You, You Hate Me, which centers on the anti-Barney phenomenon, was released on Peacock on October 12, 2022.
A study using the Young Lives data in Ethiopia found that young children whose mothers had died were 20 per cent less likely to enroll in school, 21 per cent less likely to be able to write, and 27 per cent less likely to be able to read.
Pancreatic insufficiency, short bowel syndrome, Whipple's disease, coeliac disease, and laxative abuse should also be considered.
Unrooted Childhoods: Memoirs of Growing up Global is a book of memoirs of several people who grew up in multiple countries, or moving frequently between distant regions within the same country, also known as third culture kids.
Poi Poi is a form of juggling, dance or performance art, accomplished using balls, or various other weights, on ropes or chains — held in each hand, and swung in various circular patterns, similar to club-twirling.
When referring to motor development, the proximodistal trend refers to the development of motor skills from the center of the body outwards.
Upward Sports is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization with the mission of "promoting the discovery of Jesus through sports".
A study by American sexologist Alfred Kinsey published in the book Sexual Behavior in the Human Male (1948) found that 38.6% of all 10-year-old children practice heterosexual and homosexual doctor play.
Rabbi Isaac Luria Ashkenazi, the 16th-century founder of the celebrated Lurianic School of Kabbalah who assigned special mystical value to the ear-locks, was instrumental in constituting the ritual in its present form.
HIJOS Guatemala raises awareness by painting graffiti style murals dealing with the death of their relatives and how Guatemalan youth and Mayan youth are treated in the country.
However, some researchers have linked authoritarian childrearing with children who withdraw, lack spontaneity, and have lesser evidence of conscience.
They also destroy embryos in the womb, causing miscarriage, and can steal babies forty days after childbirth, replacing them with imps.
Moroni and the golden plates While Smith was working as a treasure hunter, he was also frequently occupied with another more religious matter: acquiring a set of golden plates he said were deposited, along with other artifacts, in a prominent hill near his home.
The process is observed and recorded by the teachers and instructors without intervention, even in instances of possible risk.
Alternate versions eaten by Girl Scouts at this time included s'mores substituting apples for graham crackers, and peanut butter for chocolate.
The imperial orphanage was restored after being damaged by earthquakes in the late reign of Romanos III Argyros, but had once more fallen into disrepair by the time of Alexios I Komnenos (r.
In the United States, a pilot program using the Core Knowledge Early Literacy program that used this type of phonics approach showed significantly higher results in K–3 reading compared with comparison schools.
In one modern estimation, both books "paint a convincingly unsentimental picture of childhood, with the adults in these sketches totally out of touch with the real concerns of the young people around them, including their griefs and rages".
Helping individuals with learning disabilities Many individuals with learning disabilities may not openly disclose their condition.
A well-known Talmud scholar from Bulgaria, Abraham ben Israel Rosanes, wrote that, in his visit to Palestine in 1867, he saw an Ashkenazi Jew giving his son a haircut at the hillula.
Nineteen states and the District of Columbia have sued the Trump administration to block the administration plan to end the Flores Agreement.
Adults who have developed immunities might still carry certain organisms without exhibiting symptoms.
Proceeds are included in the estate of the deceased and may be subject to estate tax if the policy is not owned by a trust.
"beautiful girl"), also romanized as bishojo or bishoujo, is a character who is typically an attractive young girl or woman.
Background Launched in 2015 on Google PlayStore, the app is a consumer product of the parent company, Time Ahead, Inc.
HIJOS is a recursive acronym for Hijas e Hijos por la Identidad y la Justicia contra el Olvido y el Silencio (English: Daughters and Sons for Identity and Justice Against Forgetfulness and Silence).
The song's lyrics (under copyright protection) consist of a child singing about what they wish to do when they enter primary school, such as climbing Mount Fuji and eating onigiri with a hundred friends.
The sponsor receives updates from the child, typically including photos and translated letters, which help create the feeling of a personal relationship with the child.
The condition is also seen as a precursor to or accompanying an attack of angioedema, and is seen in conditions like allergic drug reactions, sepsis, and glomerulonephritis.
A recipe for straight peppermint candy sticks, white with coloured stripes, was published in The Complete Confectioner, Pastry-Cook, and Baker, in 1844.
The agency also recognises and subsidises so-called confidential centres on child abuse, which offer voluntary assistance in cases of child abuse or child neglect.
Disillusionment A key function of good enough mothering is providing the essential background to allow for the growing child's disillusionment with the mothers and the world, without destroying their appetite for life and ability to accept (external and internal) reality.
A view of rumspringa has emerged in popular culture that this divergence from custom is an accepted part of adolescence or a rite of passage for Amish youth.
Chronic suppurative otitis media affects about 5% or 31 million of these cases with 22.6% of cases occurring annually under the age of five years.
The general approach to assessment and management of distressing symptoms in children by a palliative care team is as follows: Identify and assess symptoms through history taking (focusing on location, quality, time course, as well as exacerbating and mitigating stimuli).
They enhance visual learning, which can significantly improve comprehension and retention of new vocabulary.
Exposure to fetal blood cells that can cause RhD alloimmunization can happen during normal pregnancy and delivery, miscarriage, amniocentesis, cordocentesis, chorionic villus sampling, external cephalic version, or trauma.
In 1990, the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 was enacted under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, creating a dedicated federal funding stream for child care subsidies to low-income families.
Modesta Cefai was a six-year-old Maltese girl who disappeared from Rabat, Gozo during the summer of 1911 after she had wandered out of her house and was never seen again.
Many homeowners with children build sandpits in their backyards because, unlike most playground equipment, they can be easily and cheaply constructed.
The al is known by various other names, including alk in Armenian and Kurdish, ol, hāl and xāl in Tajikistan and Afghanistan, almasti or albasti in Central Asian Turkic-speaking countries, and halmasti among the Dards.
Then one day, in 1991, Larry Rifkin, then head of Connecticut Public Television, rented a Barney video for his daughter Leora.
In 1972, however – the year in which the last book in the series was published – the educational program of Norwegian primary schools was altered.
Booster seat controversy A 2020 article by ProPublica asserted that Evenflo sold booster seats recommended for child weights lower than suggested by the company's engineers, who reportedly recommended that the company stop selling booster seats for children who weighed less than 40 pounds.
References External links NINDS Reye's Syndrome Information Page Archived August 1, 2016, at the Wayback Machine
Jongensland (Dutch: “Boysland”) was a playground for Dutch children built in the aftermath of World War II as an attempt by urban planners and child psychologists to undo fascist ideas of child development.
Pudding Pops first originated in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in the 1970s in the United States, and became more popular in the 1980s.
Since launching the site in May 2017, Europol has had success in tracing several of the objects and locations depicted.
The "Game of Love" is a reflection in consciousness of that state of struggle, oscillation and unrest which precedes the first unification of the self.
Miller writes: "Quite often I have been faced with patients who have been praised and admired for their talents and their achievements.
It most commonly affects the knees, presenting with synovitis and joint effusions (collections of fluid within the joint capsules) lasting up to a year.
Child Online Protection (COP) is an initiative which is established by International Telecommunication Union in November 2008 within the framework of the Global Cybersecurity Agenda (GCA).
While the exact definition of orphan and foundlings varies, one legal definition is a child bereft through "death or disappearance of, abandonment or desertion by, or separation or loss from, both parents".
It followed the publication of Brian Abel-Smith and Peter Townsend's work Poor and the Poorest: both men were founding members of the Group, as was Harriett Wilson's son John Veit-Wilson, who later became an academic working on social policy.
In this process of social learning, prior to imitation, children will first post inquiries and investigate why adults act and behave in a particular way.
For most resuscitation medications, the optimal dose is not known, and doses based on IBW or actual weight are likely equally effective.
Three new titles out of 3,000 children's titles would be chosen for three additional products to be released the following Spring.
At Lydney, children could raise their right hand palm forward, whilst in Bradford-on-Avon, the hand was held up with three fingers extended.
And finally, it called for instruction in word study, grammar, vocabulary, writing and comprehension.
Safety Loss of blood flow is one of the greatest risks in cock and ball torture and may cause irreversible damage.
In addition to advisors and validators, adult volunteers promote the Congressional Award Program throughout the country.
In the United States, sleepovers are a cultural staple, often associated with milestones like birthdays or school breaks.
In 1994, the Ministry of Social Issues and Health became the Ministry of Health and Welfare (보건복지부); subsequently, the organization began to take action of sexism.
See also Fiction about rape References External links Novel's official website Page for Room on Donoghue's website
It is usually determined according to a formula that accounts for major areas of expenditure, such as food, housing, and clothing and opportunity costs of child care time.
"My Class Inventory-Short Form as an accountability tool for elementary school counselors to measure classroom climate".
Indeed, The Lancet reported in 1956, that only 10% of hospital now restricted visiting, even though the Minister of Health Robin Turton was repeatedly asking for changes.
Play at work may help employees function and cope when under stress, refresh body and mind, encourage teamwork, trigger creativity, and increase energy while preventing burnout.
The main message is that the best gifts come from the heart, but it also teaches the importance of helping others and using good manners.
In September 2015, the company released GoGuardian for Teachers, a tool to monitor student activity and control student learning.
Later Ben and the narrator are looking for an unnamed secret formula, when they add the contents of "a little green bottle" and there is an explosion.
He is an eccentric individual with a high-pitched laugh and a grandiose wit which he uses on the castle's less intelligent inhabitants.
Gratification disorder is an often misdiagnosed form of masturbatory behavior, or the behavior of stimulating of one's own genitals, seen predominantly in infants and toddlers.
Adults who have made a permanent and public commitment to the faith would be held to the higher standards of behavior defined in part by the Schleitheim and Dordrecht confessions.
When all the parachute has been wrapped around the middle child and there is not much left, on the count of three the teacher and other children rapidly move outwards, which causes the child in the middle to spin around.
The Ponseti method is a manipulative technique that corrects congenital clubfoot without invasive surgery.
The Argentine organization was founded in 1995 in the town of Río Ceballos, north of Córdoba, by activists from different parts of the country.
Early diagnosis is critical, as treatment is simple and leads to prompt resolution of the movement disorder.
List of ministers Political Party: SPS G17 Plus n-p References External links Official website Serbian ministries, etc – Rulers.org
It centres on a 13-year-old schoolboy, Jamie Miller (Owen Cooper), who is arrested after the murder of a girl in his school.
See also Highway Code Road Casualties Great Britain Notes References External links Hedgehogs.gov.uk(The 2005 Green Cross Code website) RoSPA Think!
Cuvier held that species were fixed, grouped into four entirely separate embranchements, and any similarity of structures between species was merely due to functional needs.
A follow-up study by NAWCH during 1986 showed great improvement, although a detailed look at changes in the interim year showed a few instances where small children's units had closed and children transferred to adult wards.
They are also used in semiconductor circuits, and capacitors for small electronic devices such as hearing aids, pacemakers, and MP3 players, as well as in computer hard drives, automobile electronics, and surface acoustic wave SAW filters for mobile phones.
Haidt asserted that Odgers pinned all the causes of mental health declines on the 2008 global financial crisis.
In 2014, she provided input to professional development of Challenge Advisors in Wales and was an advisor to the DfE for its research on the ‘London Effect’,.
I really didn't like giving up my drum stool—and never have—but in this particular instance I would have struggled to provide a similar feel.
In the next game after this one (The Magic School Bus Explores the Rainforest), this game is based with the TV episode The Magic School Bus In the Rainforest but not with any books (book series or TV tie in books).
Beginning in 1980, the CDC cautioned physicians and parents about the association between Reye syndrome and the use of salicylates in children and teenagers with chickenpox or virus-like illnesses.
On the night of a Cappies show, the critics arrive early, attend the performance, and hold private discussions beforehand, during intermission, and after the show.
Quality education alleviates the psychosocial impact of conflict and disasters by giving a sense of normalcy, stability, structure and hope for the future.
It provides a quick screening-evaluation approach and gives promise for meeting the criticisms directed at most of the other screeners.
COP is an international collaborative network to protect children worldwide against cyber threats by providing legal, technical and organizational measures.
He was Professor of Psychology and was Director of both the Center for Psychological Services and the Crying Baby Clinic at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Teaneck, New Jersey.
Impact of Covid-19 on child care In March 2020, child care services in almost all provinces and territories, were already in a "vulnerable financial and organizational situation".
Indian childhood cirrhosis is a chronic liver disease of childhood characterised by cirrhosis of the liver associated with the deposition of copper in the liver.
Pester power is commonly used by marketing companies to target the 4–6 years old category as they have limited disposable income of their own, and consequently do not have the means to buy goods themselves.
Frank Field served as Director of the Group from 1969 to 1979 and was followed by Ruth Lister (1979–1987) and Fran Bennett, and later by Kate Green (2004–2009).
In most countries, ISCED 1 corresponds to the nationally designated primary education, and basic education includes that and also ISCED 2 lower secondary education (the lower level of secondary school).
Having been strongly impressed by the book, Miller contacted Mehr in order to get the name of the therapist.
By 12 June 2017, Europol had received 10,000 contributions (information about an image displayed on the Trace an Object site) from the public.
schools have appropriate measures in place to protect students from obscene or harmful online content in order to be eligible for discounts on internet access or internal connections through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as the E-Rate program.
"Stressed Out" debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot Rock Songs chart, giving Twenty One Pilots their first number one hit on the chart.
The study controlled for a wide variety of confounding variables, including initial levels of aggression in the children.
The multi-component acellular pertussis vaccine is 71–85% effective, with greater effectiveness against more severe strains.
Duration and frequency of the episodes vary from as little as 5–10 minutes, to episodes reported to last 30–40 minutes.
"Lodges" Special ceremonies to commemorate new members and the graduation of members into programmes for older children Symbols unique to the programme, such as sitting and standing formations, salutes, and handshakes Use of lore and nicknames e.g.
He worked on community enterprises, being the co-owner of the Swash and Buckle Fencing Club (established initially for Equity members), and was a founder of the Actors' Centre in 1978.
Jacking, Jackin’, or the jack is a freestyle dance move in which the dancer ripples their torso back and forth in an undulating motion.
They have traditionally been popular since the early Middle Ages in Europe during seasonal festivals, especially in the summertime.
In 2022, a local official reported that up to 50 people sustained injuries, but the police received no complaints.
The second reason is related to progress around the floor along the counter-clockwise line of dance.
Legend According to local Hindu folklore, before a marriage between the goddess Bhadrakali and the god Virabhadra, there was a dispute.
Also, vaudeville acrobatic dances were often little more than acrobatics set to music, whereas modern acro dance is fundamentally dance, with its acrobatic movements performed in a dance context.
Split leap or split jump is a split that is executed after leaping or jumping, respectively, while still in the air.
Form-fitting clothing is preferred over loose clothing because the latter does not move synchronously with the body and thus may interfere with a dancer's ability to maintain control.
Reviews "Trained to the Hilt" "It brings a level of genuine excitement that is rare in dramatic theatre… which ought to be taken as a significant addition to the mythology." "Brilliant" See also Stage combat Stunt coordinator References External links Scarlet Blade Theatre
Biography Early films "You've probably never heard of my movies," Panna told the Bangkok Post in a 2004 interview.
Good suicides elicit exclamations of "ouch" from onlookers and can even be comical to a certain degree.
These include side-swords, two-handed swords such as longswords, and single-edged swords including Großes Messer, szablas, scimitars, and katanas.
It is a component of American Rhythm dances, including bachata, mambo, salsa, rhumba, merengue, samba and cha-cha-cha.
David Arquette, as a wrestler, has used the worm dance ending with a standing elbow drop finisher in WCW and later on in the independent circuit.
Japanese martial arts In Japanese martial arts practice, kata is often seen as an essential partner to randori training with one complementing the other.
The Reverse Suicide involves a back hand spring or back flip landing on the knees first then back == References ==
Both hands remain on the floor while the body revolves backward through a handstand position, until the foot of the leading leg, followed by the foot of the trailing leg, reach the floor.
Modern day Currently both Parichamuttukali and Margamkali are included in the State Youth Festival of Kerala.
This is because they share the feel when it comes to piking your legs and swinging them in between the hand switch.
Finally, the highest stage of escalation is Nomohoni or all-out massacres brought about by treachery.
As this happens, the arms are brought together away from the chest and spotting technique is employed so that the dancer's head faces the direction of travel as much as possible.
He made the announcement during the 3 Pagi Era segment and was witnessed by the radio presenters Radin and Azad Jasmin and guest presenters Linda Onn and Halim Othman.
Interkingdom awards The Order of the Laurel - Some fencers have been elevated to the Order of the Laurel for research and historical fencing technique.
In the first arabesque, the dancer stands in effacé position – with the left foot in front – with the right leg raised in arabesque, the right arm extended to the side, to the audience, and the left arm extended front, towards the corner.
Flash dancers, who toured with big bands in the United States in the early twentieth century, performed acrobatic dances, often matched with tap dancers and contortionists in traveling shows.
He studied Taekwondo, earning a black belt, and represented the Selangor contingent as an athlete at the 2004 Malaysia Games (SUKMA).
Neither Gus Giordano nor Frank Hatchett include shaking the hands in their description of jazz hands, but a choreographer may specify that the hands are to be shaken; the motion is rapid and fluttering, as if jingling a tambourine.
the English language translation of the fourth Russian edition, published in the 1930s in Leningrad, USSR.
TV & Film Scarlet Blade Theatre is not limited to live performance; company members have performed in Feature Film, Television & Video Games.
In the Pink video "Try" (2013), the singer and male dancer Colt Prattes can be seen performing an interpretation of the Apache dance choreography by The golden Boyz - R J Durrell and Nick Florez - and aerial choreographer Sebastien Stella.
Traction is essential to prevent lateral slipping that could result in dangerous falls to the hard floor.
Regardless of the beginning, there are several swipe variations that basically differ in terms of which parts of the arms hit the ground.
The working leg is often held in retiré position, but may be held in a variety of other positions, either with or without turnout.
An important concentration of traditional sword dances can be found on the Italian side of the western Alps.
Hairul Azreen Idris (born 23 April 1988) is a former Malaysian actor, stuntman, model, director, and entrepreneur.
In more formal variants of the curtsy, the girl/woman bends the knees outward (rather than straight ahead), often sweeping one foot behind her.
It is typically used to advance a couple 5⁄4 of a turn down line of dance, although an underturned spin turn is also very useful for turning a corner.
It has been applied to a range of production genres including professional theatre, opera, ballet, film, television and motion capture, notably including The Lord of the Rings film trilogy, as well as to physical theater, martial arts and self defense training.
The dancer uses their arms to support their body above the floor while moving their legs in a circle.
The Codex Belli, literally Laws of Battle, are a ruleset for unchoreographed semi-contact combat with medieval reenactment weapons, which differ most notably from realistic replicas in that they have rounded edges and points.
Ching Siu-tung is particularly noted in the field of Hong Kong action cinema for his use of graceful wire fu techniques.
Leader (man) Follower (lady) Progressive chassé to right The progressive chassé to right is a Bronze syllabus figure.
Kime-no-kata is a long kata consisting of self-defense techniques against both unarmed attacks, and attacks with swords and knives.
A kick is a b-boy move that generally constitutes a one-handed handstand with the legs and free arm in some stylish position.
The dance is considered a relic of the war dances (Albanian: valle luftarake), the remnants of pantomimic dances performed in the re-enactment or preparation of battles.
This may refer to either single combat, melees involving small groups, or nearly full-scale battles with hundreds of participants.
From the moment a front aerial performer leaves the floor until touching down again, the torso must remain in a stationary, inverted orientation while the lower body rotates about the torso.
Middle East Arab sword dances (raqs al-saïf) evolved out of sword fighting between men, in both Egypt and Turkey.
On 19 January 2025, Carlos Baleba did The Griddy in the tunnel of Old Trafford after helping his team to beat Manchester United by 1-3.
Such performances are offered by a number of museums, including the Higgins Armory Museum, Worcester, MA, USA [1] and the Royal Armouries, Leeds, UK[2].
In a basic handstand, the body is held straight with arms and legs fully extended, with hands spaced approximately shoulder-width apart and the legs together.
Thrusting has been observed in humans at eight to 10 months of age and may be an expression of affection.
If the partners are ¼ of the ring or less away from his home position, then they promenade a full circle around to get back to his home.
The roundoff is similar to a cartwheel, except the gymnast lands with two feet placed together on the ground instead of one foot at a time, facing the direction they arrived from.
It is characterized by its energetic, exaggerated arm and leg movements, and it became a cultural phenomenon within the gaming and social media communities.
It requires that the dancer shifts his/her weight from the left leg to the right leg, leans onto his/her right hand and then moves the weight onto his/her left hand/forearm - shoulder while his/her feet leave the ground.
Accomplished breakers may stab to begin the windmill, but they will perform subsequent rotations unstabbed (sometimes called a "forearm mill").
Axe to aerial, in which a leg is raised to shoulder or head height and then swung down (in a fashion similar to an axe kick), whereupon it becomes the leading leg of an aerial.
In later years, this form of swing has been termed "Ballroom Swing" to distinguish it from other forms.
Generally used to refer to retiré passé, indicating passing the foot of the working leg past the knee of the supporting leg (on, below, or above) from back to front or front to back.
For example, a right two-step forward is a forward step onto the right foot, a closing step with the left foot, and a forward step onto the right foot.
Chair Kneespin - A spin on one knee and bringing the right or left foot in front of the non spinning knee ankle of the non spinning foot is placed usually in front of spinning knee kneeling position.
The sequence may start from any of the four steps and may break wherever it is convenient to move into another dance figure or in the opposite direction.
In normal rapier rules, the edge may only be used for draw-cuts (placing the blade and pulling or pushing it on the opponent's body), while under "cut and thrust rapier" rules, percussive blows with the edge are also permitted.
In particular, flesh colored foot thongs endow the wearer with the appearance of having bare feet, while retaining some degree of the traction, cushioning, and abrasion protection provided by acro shoes.
A suicide is also used to demonstrate a possible ending to a conflict that groups may have with each other.
Kick ball change Kickball change is a dance move that consists of a kick followed by the ball change.
By 1970, additional kwans had joined the KTA so the newer set of taegeuk forms was developed to better represent inputs from all the participating kwans.
Inside and outside terminology can not be determined by relativity to partnership as such position alternates every 180 degrees of rotation.
Hand walking is performed in various athletic activities, including acro dance and circus acrobatics.
Air guitar had a seminal moment at the Woodstock music festival in 1969, when singer Joe Cocker mimicked the playing of the keyboard and guitar during his performance of "With a Little Help From My Friends".
This move is a part of a number particular dances, of which twerking has become a viral international sensation after being performed by Miley Cyrus in 2013.
Shorty George and his partner Big Bea had a move, where they stood back-to-back; they locked arms; Big Bea bent over, picking Shorty George up on her back; and then she carried him off the floor, while he kicked his feet.
Footwork The double reverse spin consists of a heel pivot to Viennese cross (the left foot crossing in front of the right foot) for the follower and a reverse turn to toe pivot for the leader.
He later returned to the UK and studied for three years at the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama.
The name Texas Tommy was derived from the dance with the same name, which, around 1910, was the first social dance to feature a breakaway step, from which the swingout developed.
When the angle is much greater than 90° and the body trunk leans forward to counterbalance the working leg, the position is called arabesque penchée.
These observations led ethologist John Bowlby (1969) to suggest that infantile sexual behavior may be the rule in mammals, not the exception.
Notable amongst these were George Dubois, a Parisian fight director and martial artist who created performance fencing styles based on gladiatorial combat as well as Renaissance rapier and dagger fencing.
An anecdote says that when she was asked about her dancing style, she answered, in heavy accent, "I'm shaking my chemise".
The exam requires actors to perform a dramatic scene containing a stage combat fight, choreographed and taught by a BASSC Certified Teacher.
An important element in using a shield is to hold the shield arm in an upper diagonal so the fist is higher than the elbow so the top of the shield does not move when struck, and the danger being hit in the face with the shield or the weapon using to strike it can be avoided.
Among the basic figures of Argentine tango there is a similar "la cruzada" ("crossing) position of the legs.
In grand plié, (in first, second, fourth, and fifth position) While doing a grand-plié position one must remember to have proper alignment.
Display of martial aptitude is a natural occurrence in warrior societies, and ritualized forms of mock combat often evolve into war dances.
In this case, the play refers to how the dance is a mock performance as opposed to ankam which means "fight".
The term is occasionally translated in English as squatting (squat dance, e.g., in a translation of Eugene Onegin).
The Bronze Level syllabus for Western Swing included in the Dance Book written in the 1950s by Arthur Murray Dance Studios National Director, and Los Angeles basin resident, Lauré Haile, defined a "Coaster Step" as cross forward place, or back together side, or back forward back.
In particular, it describes which part of the foot is in contact with the floor: ball, heel, flat, toe, high toe, inside/outside edge, etc.
In some dances (e.g., Polka, Hustle, Electric Slide) it is an eight count figure, often split into two, mirroring each other and called "grapevine to the right" and "grapevine to the left".
(1985), "Jack'n the House" (1985) by Farley "Jackmaster" Funk (1985), "Jack Your Body" by Steve "Silk" Hurley (1986), "The Jack That House Built" by Jack 'n' Chill (1987), or "Jack to the Sound of the Underground" by Hithouse (1988).
Origins and pioneers The move emerged from a similar move called the airtrack, in which one rotates in a vertical axis but does not travel in a circular path.
Prisiadki (singular: Russian: присядка, romanized: prisiadka, plural присядки; Ukrainian: присідання, romanized: prysidannia, or присядки, prysiadky) or vprisiadku dancing (Russian: вприсядку) is a type of male dance move in East Slavic (Russian, Ukrainian) dances.
Street theater often featured mimes who did a mechanical man or puppet style illusion, without music, including performer Robert Shields, who would later perform this style on a wider stage as part of Shields and Yarnell.
Airchair - A chair freeze without the head or feet on the floor, usually facing the ceiling, with leeway for many leg variations.
Squad members often dedicated themselves to deities worshipped in local temples and viewed battle with the enemy as orders given by a god or goddess.
Technique The natural spin turn consists of the first half of a natural turn followed by an under-turned pivot.
An early documented case of cartwheels occurred in Düsseldorf after the Battle of Worringen in which Adolf VIII, Count of Berg, defeated the Archbishop of Cologne in 1288.
Power moves are dance moves which are loosely defined as moves relying on speed, momentum, and acrobatic elements for performance.
There was a change.org petition created by Curtis Hedges of the OBS Group to influence the United States Olympic Committee to recognize Pablo Flores, and more recently Lui Guerrero as the first person in history to perform continuous airflares.
Early evidence of vprisiadku dancing comes from a mid-fourtheenth century Psalter, in which an initial of letter A depicts a skomorokh playing gusli and dancing vprisiadku.
In the first half-turn, one foot is stepped out to the dancer's side in the direction of travel and placed in releve or en pointe; the dancer then rotates 180° on the placed foot while lifting the other foot so that it crosses over the placed foot.
A shimmy or shoulder shakes is a dance move in which the body is held still, except for the shoulders, which are quickly alternated back and forth.
The worm was performed at shows in the 1970s and was popularized widely during the 1980s "funk" period, and continues to be associated with breakdancing.
Though b-boy Kid Freeze is sometimes credited with having invented the headspin, the first known footage of the move is seen in the 1933 film, Wild Boys of the Road.
A person who has assumed a split position is said to be "in a split", or "doing the splits", or "doing a split" (this form is especially encountered in the Eastern United States).
The pelvic thrust is the thrusting motion of the pelvic region, which is used for a variety of activities, such as dance, exercise, or sexual activity.
The promenade in modern western square dance In square dancing, and in particular modern western square dance, when a promenade is called it is understood to be a "couples' promenade" involving all four couples.
During the second and fifth step, the foot is supposed to travel along two sides of the box, rather than along its diagonal.
A fundamental difference between wars enacted within the same tribe and against neighboring tribes is such that "wars between different tribes are in principle wars of extermination".
In some SMR dojos, new students begin their kata training by learning one or more kata from the Seitei Jodo-curriculum due to their relative technical simplicity.
Single promenade: Dancers individually turn to the right, and promenade single-file around the ring.
However, more complex movements are influenced by musicality and lyrical relevance to express emotions or refer to a message.
"The third Method is quite the Reverse, because, instead of the Bouree, the Half Coupee is made first and afterwards the Bouree, or as the French term it, One and a Fleuret, which is usually called the French Step" (Tomlinson 1735, 104).
Acrobatic flips can be initiated from a stationary, standing position, but they are often executed immediately following another rotational move, such as a roundoff or handspring, to take advantage of the angular momentum generated by the preceding move.
Description Yemenite step (tza'ad Temani) is a popular dance performed Jews during weddings and other Jewish occasions.
War dances can overlap with sword dances and other forms of weapon dance, utilizing weapons or replications as part of the artistic performance.
Terminology The term airflare was coined by members of Soul Control, including Barmak Badaei, Babak Badaei, Carlos Alvarez (Inferno), and Jacob Lyons (Kujo), to distinguish the move from the airtrack.
It is one of several ways to get into promenade position and is used to turn dancers around corners or change their direction on the dance floor.
Piqué A piqué turn is begun by stepping directly onto the ball of a relevé (or en pointe) foot, followed by a complete rotation while supported by the relevé (or en pointe) foot before returning to plié position.
However, no sources have been found that exclude the playing of air instruments in ancient times, during private performances, such as for air flute or air lyre (for lyres or harps).
The Art of Dancing Explained by Reading and Figures; Whereby the Manner of Performing the Steps Is Made Easy by a New and Familiar Method: Being the Original Work First Design'd in the Year 1724, and Now Published.
By changing the distance between body and neck, and pressing a combination of the four buttons on the neck part, up to 48 tones and chords can be played.
Leader (man) Follower (lady) References External links Open Telemark and Wing on YouTube demonstrated by Isaia Berardi and Cinzia Birarelli
Movies with notable food fights include The Battle of the Century (1927), The Great Race (1965), Blazing Saddles (1974), and Animal House (1978).
Sophie Wilkinson of The Guardian described naming the dance move a slutdrop an example of the word 'slut' being reclaimed by women, and also reclaiming the term 'slutdrop' from its previous meaning.
A traveling series of jumps where each leg is alternately brought to attitude devant in the air, each foot passing the previous one in alternating.
The dancers had previously performed and introduced the dance at Syracuse, New York, but the audience misheard “Syracuse” as “Susie-Q.” The step The feet perform alternating cross steps and side steps with swivel action, as follows.
Airness—the most subjective criterion, as "presentation" in figure skating—how much the performance was an object of art by itself, not only a simulation of playing guitar.
On 2, swivel on the heel, the right toe swinging to the right, while doing a small step by the left foot to the side, almost in place or simply transferring the weight onto the left foot, or stepping slightly back.
This skill may also include a 360-degree rotation using a torque twist, in which case it is called a back tuck full.
The two hands are generally placed down one after the other, so that the first hand is twisted by 90 degrees and the second hand by almost 180 degrees from the direction of travel.
When dancing 2-step is often used as a move by itself or as a transition into other moves such as powermoves, freezes, toprock and much more.
Similar customs were known to the Dugum Dani and the Chimbu of New Guinea, the Nuer of Sudan and the North American Plains Indians.
Gallery Cultural references The ability to dance prisiadki on prosthetic legs in a Barynya dance for a military pilot was the climax of the patriotic novel The Story of a Real Man by Boris Polevoy.
In the first, little rotation can be seen is in the plane parallel to the floor; the rotation is strictly around the axis of the body.
Their work in dramatic combat is combined with and develops alongside related disciplines, for example Intimacy Directing.
By 1971, the palgwae forms were considered to be deprecated in favor of the newer taegeuk forms, though some schools still teach palgwae forms as well.
See also Tha Butterfly, charting single by rap group Way 2 Real h Clogging Clog dancing Jig Country–western dance == References ==
It is a fundamental b-boying or bgirl power move, and in gymnastics it may be performed on a pommel horse or during the floor exercise.
Many attacks are performed 'out of distance' so that there is no possible chance of one performer accidentally striking the other.
Partnered Suzy Qs In Lindy Hop, Suzy Qs can be performed by couples, either facing each other in open position, or side by side.
Below is a list of the BASSC core weapon syllabus: Weapons Systems: Unarmed Combat Swashbuckling Rapier Rapier & Dagger Broadsword Quarterstaff Sword & Shield Smallsword Knife Rapier & Cloak References External links BASSC Website Richard Ryan Moving Body Arts Independent Drama
Customarily the man (or gent) stands to the left of the lady, his right hip touching or almost touching her left hip.
In taekwondo, taegeuk is a set of Pumsae (also known as Poomsae or Poomse), or defined pattern of defense-and-attack forms used to teach taekwondo.
Rittikrai died in a hospital in Bangkok from complications brought on by acute liver and kidney failure on July 20, 2014.
The right foot is placed flat and the left foot is placed with the toe by the right heel and the left heel raised and this relative position basically maintained during the turning.
Due to this controversy, he was sometimes shown (as seen on his third appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show) from the waist up on TV.
Depending on relative positions and handholds, there are several versions of Botafogos while the basic footwork technique is the same.
The songs used in these Syrian Christian dances often have a very subtle western influence while retaining a traditional folkish tune.
Pike - A freeze with one hand planted on the ground while the entire body is perpendicular to the floor with both feet held high to the air.
Moonwalk The moonwalk is a dance technique that presents the illusion of the dancer being pulled backwards while attempting to walk forward, like this Natural turn Natural turns and some other figures are those in which the dance couple rotates to the right (clockwise).
Aside from the obvious requirement that dancers possess the requisite skills to perform tricks, the types of tricks that can be performed in an acro dance depends on the number of dancers.
Mae West, in her autobiography Goodness Had Nothing to Do with It, claimed to have re-titled the "Shimmy-Shawobble" as the Shimmy, after seeing the moves in some black nightclubs.
The following aspects of footwork may be considered: Dance technique: a proper footwork may be vital for proper posture and movement of a dancer.
The term 1990 was created by ken swift of the Rocksteady crew but the actual move of spinning on one hand was created by Spinner of the Dynamic Rockers who at the time called it a hand spin.
(For example, in Latin-dance walks the toe hits the floor first, rather than the heel.) In dance descriptions the term walk is usually applied when two or more steps are taken in the same direction.
The most well known is the grapevine (or vine for short), a four-count movement to the side." In ballroom dancing a "dance move" is defined as, or requires, the shifting of one's body weight from one foot to the other in time to the music.
In addition to steps, there are also dance movements, such as toe touches, kicks, and hops." Some genres, such as ballet, have, "a clear repertoire of dance steps," thus different types of dance may be characterized by their differing and shared steps.
The original Two-step was a simple dance that first caught on with the public when John Philip Sousa came out with the 'Washington Post March' in 1889." Europe In Europe the two-step became popular from around 1900 until the 1910s, when the one-step and the foxtrot took over.
It was used by Crips at parties to display affiliation, particularly vis-a-vis rival gang the Bloods.
Training was established in the United States with the formation of the Society of American Fight Directors in 1977.
Examples of these group tricks are: Bridge pyramid Triple cartwheel Apparel Footwear Acro dances are typically performed on hard stages with widely varying surfaces.
Other examples of two-step marches include Louis Conterno's Red Clouds March Two Step and Nellie Beamish's Thirteenth National Regiment March and Two Step.
Ball change is a dance move that consists of two steps: a partial weight transfer on the ball of a foot (placed e.g., behind), followed by a step on the other foot.
The sole is made of soft, composite rubber so as to provide both high traction and cushioning, and it provides excellent protection from skin abrasion as it covers the entire bottom of the foot.
Wilkinson states that slutdropping brings women together on the dance floor and called it a "true signifier of feminine camaraderie".
He must always remember to pass his right leg in front of the lady when going forward, just as her left passes in front of him.
Combat reenactment is a side of historical reenactment which aims to depict historical forms of combat.
A roundoff is a move in gymnastics similar to a cartwheel, except the gymnast lands with two feet placed together on the ground instead of one foot at a time, facing the direction of arrival.
Breakers may devote considerable time to developing their toprock, which may include elements of salsa, Lindy Hop, Liquid dancing and the Robot.
These include a parrying dagger (or main gauche), a shield or buckler, a cloak or other flexible item, a cane, stick, or baton, or even a second sword (known as wielding "a case of rapiers").
Michael Jackson and the moonwalk Singer Bobby Brown of New Edition was the one of "three kids" Jackson said taught him the dance step in his autobiography, Moonwalk.
Kata is a loanword in English, from the 1950s in reference to the judo kata due to Jigoro Kano, and from the 1970s also of karate kata; but the word has come to be used as a generic term for "forms" in martial arts in general, or even figuratively applied to other fields.
Handglide Freeze - A stationary Handglide Spinning floats Turtle - This is a standard spinning float.
As opposed to after 1615, when dueling was publicly condemned by King James and the duels were used as a last resort in regard to the plot.
Characteristics A defining characteristic of acro is the smooth, graceful transitions between dance and acrobatic movements.
These moving floats can be made to spin very fast and become the first power moves that were done in the 80's.
This series is the last one taught openly to an advanced student and only dedicated and mature students are allowed to study it.
The left hands are held in front of the lead's waist; the right hands are held in front of the follow's waist.
For example, although there are a number of ways of creating the safe illusion of a slap to the face (which is obviously something that could really be done in combat), none of these involve making actual contact with the victim's face.
Well-known kicklines are formed by the New York Rockettes and the ensemble of Berlin's Friedrichstadt-Palast.
The cartwheel kick is executed by throwing the body into a cartwheel motion, but rather than completing the wheel, the body flexes, while supported by one hand on the ground.
A front aerial is an acrobatic move in which a person executes a complete forward revolution of the body without touching the floor.
Tango In Argentine Tango, a gancho is a sharp move when a dancer hooks a leg around a partner's leg by bending the knee and then straightening.
When all five kata have been taught the student is issued a full License of Total Transmission Menkyo Kaiden.
Another of the earliest documented acrobatic dance performers was Tommy Woods, who became well known for his slow-motion acrobatic dance in Shuffle Along, in which he would execute acrobatic movements precisely in time with the music.
Sexual activity The pelvic thrust is used during copulation by many species of mammals, including humans, or for other sexual activities (such as non-penetrative sex).
International fame With the worldwide releases of Ong-Bak and Tom-Yum-Goong, with their gritty, hard-hitting stunts, action-film fans the world over have wanted to see more, so film distributors are starting to release some of Panna's older titles on DVDs geared for the international market.
A split (commonly referred to as splits or the splits) is a physical position in which the legs are in line with each other and extended in opposite directions.
Also, a dance must have a significant percentage of dance movement, with respect to its acrobatic content, in order for it to be categorized as acro.
Depending on the intended effect, performances may have the aim of presenting historical martial arts reconstruction, or just offer entertainment, and different groups have different standards of authenticity.
The chassé ([ʃase], French for 'to chase'; sometimes anglicized to chasse ) is a waltz ballroom dance figure.
In dance, a front split is named according to the leg that is extended forward (e.g., the right leg is extended forward when executing a right split).
In 1935, the troupe Whitey's Lindy Hoppers (aka the Harlem Congeroos) formed and performed at private parties in New York.
The step is often called "the shuffle" by line dancers, but that has several unrelated meanings in other dance contexts.
By the 1990s, a dancer named Paulo Nunes in Europe had created the variation which is essentially the same move as the modern airflare.
In 1996, the Society of British Fight Directors voted to change its name to the British Academy of Dramatic Combat (BADC).
Taegeuk Poomsae Many schools require that form practice begin with a bow to the flag and/or instructor, but the motions of the forms themselves do not require the bow, nor is it necessary in personal practice.
For any given word, speakers generally hold a traditional view about the standard pronunciation of that word.
Words such as videō "I see" and redeō "I return", starting with a pair of short syllables, also cannot be shortened.
Strict Metres verse still honors the immensely complex rules laid down for correct poetic composition 600 years ago." In general, there seems to be disagreement on whether free verse is restricted by foundational poetry conventions or not.
There are several other minor metres found in the Vedas, of which the following are two examples: Virāj: 4 lines of 10 syllables.
rima aguda (oxytonic rhyme): The rhyming words are accented on the last syllable, for example: cartón (cardboard) and limón (lemon), jerez (sherry) and revés (backwards).
'For no Roman scaled the Muses' lofty crags or was careful with his speech before this man.' Ancient grammarians sought to derive the verse from a Greek model, in which syllable weight or the arrangement of light and heavy syllables was the governing principle.
In Jasieński's But w butonierce lines are shaped according to the pattern ssSssSs||ssSssSs or ssSssSs||ssSssS.
Qinah is a poetic metre used in various places in the Hebrew Bible (the Christian Old Testament) and most notably in the Book of Lamentations.
(7) Faliscan (two nearly identical inscriptions on cups from Civita Castellana, 4th century BC) FOIED•VINO•(PI)PAFO•CRA•CAREFO In Latin orthography: foiēd vīnom (pi)pafō.
Latin iambic senarius The iambic trimeter was imitated in Latin by 2nd century BC comic playwrights such as Plautus and Terence, where it is known as the iambic senarius.
He would create and come up with comical phrases also doing African American jive over the music while selecting and playing R&B music.
The important among them include: Mirza Ghalib Bahadur Shah Zafar Wali Mohammed Wali Zauq Poets who have written the mukhammas in other languages include: Sipandi Samarkandi Qatran Tabrizi See also Musaddas Doha Marsia Masnavi Rekhta == References ==
For example, the Sapphic stanza, which represents such a large part of Sappho's surviving poetry, is also well represented in Alcaeus' work (e.g.
A consequence of this commonality is that lyrics of one song can be sung to the tune of another; for example, "Advance Australia Fair", "House of the Rising Sun", "Pokémon Theme" and "Amazing Grace" can have their lyrics set to the tune of any of the others.
by Jaakko Hämeen-Anttila, Studia Orientalia, 78/Materials for the study of Raǧaz poetry, 3 (Helsinki: Finnish Oriental Society, 1996), ISBN 9519380280 Manfred Ullmann, Untersuchungen zue Raǧazpoesie.
However, according to Macdonell, "there is no reason to believe that in the original text the second verse was more sharply divided from the third than from the first." When the Gayatri Mantra is recited, on the other hand, a pause is customarily made after each pada.
Singjaying is a Jamaican style of reggae vocals combining toasting and singing in an elastic format that encourages rhythmically compelling and texturally impressive vocal embellishments.
When this happens it is unclear whether anaclasis has taken place in the second half or not; the word accents suggest that there is often no anaclasis in the second half, but this is uncertain.
The alteration of normal and broken tetrameters is a characteristic difference between the Kalevala meter and other forms of trochaic tetrameter.
It was used for example by Aeschylus in the opening chorus of his play The Persians, which is sung by a group of old men in the Persian capital city of Susa.
Propertius linked him to his rival with the following well-known couplet: The 1st-century-AD rhetorician Quintilian ranked Philitas second only to Callimachus among the elegiac poets.
Essentially, a bahr is a specific rhythmic pattern defined by the sequence of basic metrical feet (tafāʿīl or arkān).
Several attempts were made in the 19th century to naturalise the dactylic hexameter to English — by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Arthur Hugh Clough, and others — none of them particularly successful.
In a formal (closed) couplet, each of the two lines is end-stopped, implying that there is a grammatical pause at the end of a line of verse.
As the rhythm of reggae changed in the late 1970s and became what is now known as "rockers" style reggae, the themes changed as well.
The words "Thou from" (Strong-Weak) substitute a trochee for an iamb, but "the leaves" (Weak-Strong) substitute an iamb for a trochee.
The ionic (or Ionic) is a four-syllable metrical unit (metron) of light-light-heavy-heavy (u u – –) that occurs in ancient Greek and Latin poetry.
Auden's poem "O where are you going?" (1931) is a more recent and slightly less metrically-regular example.
Anapestic tetrameter (British spelling: anapaestic) is a poetic meter that has four anapestic metrical feet per line.
Mukhammas (Arabic مخمس 'fivefold') refers to a type of Persian or Urdu cinquain or pentastich with Sufi connections based on a pentameter.
The most common lengths are the thirteen-syllable line (trzynastozgłoskowiec or Polish alexandrine), the eleven-syllable line (jedenastozgłoskowiec) and eight-syllable line (ośmiozgłoskowiec).
(A) He was always cold, but the land of gold seemed to hold him like a spell; (B) Though he'd often say in his homely way that "he'd sooner live in hell." (B) See also Fourteener (poetry) Archilochian == References ==
Yet all have in common that they only manipulate vowels that are close to each other and not interrupted by consonants.
Arsis and thesis in ancient Greek music Writers on the rhythms of Greek music or dance usually described the first part of a foot as the arsis or "up" part.
So the conventional patterns of accentual and accentual-syllabic English verse are perceived as regularly rhythmic, whereas to the listener, syllabic verse generally is not distinguishable from free verse.
Bely's influence Nabokov in large part follows the system described by Andrei Bely in his paper "Description of the Russian iambic tetrameter" ("Опыт характеристики русского четырехстопного ямба") published in the collection of essays Symbolism (Символизм) (Moscow, 1910).
The 1st pythiambic combines a dactylic hexameter with an iambic dimeter: – u u – u u – u u – u u – u u – x x – u – x – u x This is found in Horace, Epodes 15 and 16.
Related to iambic heptameter is the more common ballad verse (also called common metre), in which a line of iambic tetrameter is succeeded by a line of iambic trimeter, usually in quatrain form.
(Hecht and other poets sometimes bent or ignored this rule, as in the Robison poem below.) There is also a requirement for at least one line, preferably the second line of the second stanza, to be entirely one double dactyl word.
The middle foot "– u u –" is a choriambus, as a so-called choriambic nucleus is a defining element of Aeolic verse.
And I have ridden with a blade between the two armies, until I struck while the wave of death was crashing round me.
Gray used the term elegy for a poem of solitude and mourning, and not just for funereal (eulogy) verse.
In general, lines of verse can be classified according to the number of feet they contain, using the terms monometer, dimeter, trimeter, tetrameter, pentameter, hexameter, heptameter, and octameter, although seven or more feet in a line is uncommon.
In modern English poetry, a trochee is a foot consisting of a stressed syllable followed by an unstressed syllable.
The sotadeion or sotadean, named after the Hellenistic poet Sotades, has been classified as ionic a maiore by Hephaestion and by M.
Philodemus's exact original text is uncertain, but it is reconstructed by Denys Page to read ὁ χαλκέοισιν οὐρανὸν νώτοις Ἄτλας (meaning the same as L's version), which does not break Porson's law, and therefore may be the correct text.
In quantitative meter (such as the meter of classical verse), it consists of three short syllables occupying a foot, replacing either an iamb (u –) or a trochee (– u).
Only languages with a separate quantitative element can make substantial use of heterodynes, and people primarily refer to the poetry of classical languages when evoking the term.
The Jaap Sahib begins with "Sri Mukhwakh Patshahi Dasvee," "By the holy mouth of the Tenth King." This appears to be a specific saying to authenticate the writings of Guru Gobind Singh himself.
Every syllable pronounced is of nearly equal value but is less strongly accented than in English; being less intense requires less discipline to mold the accents into the poem's rhythm.
He says that an iambic foot (⏑ –) is made of an arsis and a thesis that stand in a ratio of 1:2, while a trochaic foot (– ⏑) is made of a thesis followed by an arsis, standing in a ratio of 2:1.
In later poets the cretic foot could be resolved into a paeonic (ᴗ ᴗ ᴗ – or – ᴗ ᴗ ᴗ) or sometimes even five short syllables (ᴗ ᴗ ᴗ ᴗ ᴗ).
In other kinds, such as the ruba'i, qasida, or ghazal, the rhyme scheme is AA BA CA DA, with the same rhyme used for the second hemistich of every couplet.
Haug states: "Among the metres used in the Yajurveda, we find several which are marked by the epithet Asuri, e.g., Gayatri Asuri, Ushni Asuri, and Pankti Asuri.
Each half-verse of 16 syllables can take either a pathyā ("normal") form or one of several vipulā ("extended") forms.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 o o o o o S x | o o o o S x Moja wdzięczna Orszulo, bodaj ty mnie była S=stressed syllable; x=unstressed syllable; o=any syllable.
In the Seikilos epitaph, a piece of Greek music surviving on a stone inscription from the 1st or 2nd century AD, the notes on the second half of each six-time-unit bar are marked with dots, called stigmai (στιγμαί).
In the prosody of English and other modern European languages, "choriamb" is sometimes used to describe a four-syllable sequence of the pattern stressed-unstressed-unstressed-stressed (again, a trochee followed by an iamb): for example, "over the hill", "under the bridge", and "what a mistake!".
Latin cīvitās and its various inflections) cannot be used in works composed in dactylic hexameter or dactylic pentameter.
Many church hymns are also based on long metre tunes, such as the Good Friday hymn "When I Survey the Wondrous Cross".
Amsha metres Amsha metres are based on Amsha or a unit consisting of short or long syllables which may be extended to modify time required to pronounce them.
Anuṣṭubh (Sanskrit: अनुष्टुभ्, IPA: [ɐnuˈʂʈubʱ]) is a metre and a metrical unit, found in both Vedic and Classical Sanskrit poetry, but with significant differences.
Common metre has been used for ballads such as "Tam Lin", hymns such as "Amazing Grace", and Christmas carols such as "O Little Town of Bethlehem".
In the early 20th century, accentual-syllabic verse was largely supplanted by free verse in literary poetry through the efforts of Modernists such as Ezra Pound and Amy Lowell.
Other structure: Further rules may be imposed, such as additional word-boundary constraints on certain syllabic positions, or allowances for extrametrical syllables; and further interlinear structure may be present (such as rhyme and stanza).
A new proposal that draws from generative linguistics has recently been put forward by Parsons (currently under follow-up investigation by Angelo Mercado, whose analysis is available at ref.).
While individual lines may have a regular syllabic structure, this is not kept constant over the poem – only the stress pattern is consistent – as otherwise the poem becomes accentual-syllabic verse.
(1961), Catullus: A Commentary, Oxford, ISBN 978-0198721475 {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link).
A lekythion or lecythion, in classical Greek and Latin poetry, is a metric pattern (colon) defined by a sequence of seven alternating long and short syllables at the end of a verse (— u — x — u —).
Sidney's Arcadia in 1590: "In singing some short coplets, whereto the one halfe beginning, the other halfe should answere." While couplets traditionally rhyme, not all do.
Terza rima can lend a sense of strength and solidity to the story or the poem — each tercet, though brief, has enough length to contain a complete thought or expression, that can be considered independently.
The pattern (where "-" stands for a long and "u" for a short syllable) is: "- u u - -" when the pattern ends with a spondee (i.e.
Apart from these Saturnian poems, which today survive only in fragments, all Latin poetry is written in adaptations of various Greek metres.
In tragedy, resolutions are virtually never consecutive, and two instances in the same line are rare.
Sony Music has just released an album Koi Baat Chale which has a few of Gulzar's triveni sung by Jagjit Singh.
An end-stopped line is a feature in poetry in which the syntactic unit (phrase, clause, or sentence) corresponds in length to the line.
He changed the meter in one long scene in Misanthrope to a 15-syllable catalectic iambic tetrameter recited to an aulos accompaniment.
The pentameter is notable for its very tight structure, with substitutions allowed only in the first two feet.
The 7-syllable lines are catalectic: Once in Royal David's city (8 syllables) Stood a lowly cattle shed, (7 syllables) Where a mother laid her Baby (8 syllables) In a manger for His bed: (7 syllables) Mary was that mother mild, (7 syllables) Jesus Christ her little Child.
Here a stressed syllable is represented by the symbol '/' and an unstressed syllable by the symbol 'x'.
Almost all Persian metres are made up of repeated patterns of three, four, or eight syllables, and this makes it easy to see that some metres are catalectic, since the last foot will be one syllable shorter than the others.
It can be seen as a radical extension of the tendencies of both vers libres (various and unpredictable line lengths) and vers libéré (weakening of strictures for caesura and rhymes, as well as experimentation with unusual line lengths).
The proliferation of such conscious rhymes, uncommon in Classical Latin poetry, is traditionally attributed to a probably apocryphal monk Leonius, who is supposed to be the author of a history of the Old Testament (Historia Sacra) preserved in the Bibliothèque Nationale of Paris.
Ionic metres Ionic Anacreontic Galliambic, a relatively rare form of which Carmen 63 by Catullus is the only complete example from antiquity Sotadean Anacreon (late 6th century BC) was an Ionian rather than Dorian, and wrote all his poetry in the Ionian dialect.
Additionally, an i between two or more vowels stands almost without exception for a double consonant; so, for example a-io, standing for a-iio has two syllables.
The language of Jaap, is close to classical with words and compounds drawn from Sanskrit, Brij Bhasha, Arabic and Urdu.
It is sometimes referred to as a "reverse dactyl", and shares the rapid, driving pace of the dactyl.
An anacrusis is an unstressed pickup or lead-in note or group of notes that precedes the first accented note of a phrase (a short unit of musical line).
The dactylic metron is called the Prosodiac and is variable in the number of dactyls that proceed the final spondee or long syllable.
The less-often used word choree comes from χορός, khorós, 'dance'; both convey the "rolling" rhythm of this metrical foot.
(The stanza above is recited at minute 3:45.) Lecture (in Hindi) on Mandākrāntā metre by Dr Vasudev Prasad.
Elizabeth Daryush, known for her use of syllabic verse, used the quaternion form for her celebrated syllabic verse poem "Accentedal".
Etymology Trochee comes from French trochée, adapted from Latin trochaeus, originally from the Greek τροχός, trokhós, 'wheel', from the phrase τροχαῖος πούς, trokhaîos poús, 'running foot'; it is connected with the word τρέχω, trékhō, 'I run'.
The kāmil resembles the wāfir metre in that it makes use of biceps elements (that is, places in the verse where two short syllables can be replaced by one long one).
Accentual verse was introduced into Polish literature at the end of 18th century but it never replaced traditional syllabic metres.
In "Kate's Mother," included in New Verse, Bridges had found that form which he later employed in The Testament of Beauty, a book-length poem written when he was over eighty.
Remy de Gourmont's Livre des Masques gave definition to the whole vers libre movement; he noted that there should arise, at regular intervals, a full and complete line, which reassures the ear and guides the rhythm.
Examples Trochaic meter is sometimes seen among the works of William Shakespeare: Perhaps owing to its simplicity, though, trochaic meter is fairly common in nursery rhymes: The Finnish national epic, Kalevala, like much old Finnish poetry, is written in a variation of trochaic tetrameter.
In the early 1970s, toasting deejays included I-Roy (his nickname is in homage to U-Roy) and Dillinger, the latter known for his humorous toasting style.
During the Sturm und Drang literary movement, it was rehabilitated, since the authors distanced themselves from classical forms, embracing Germanic forms instead.
Other examples are Robert Browning's A Toccata of Galuppi's, Alfred Tennyson's Locksley Hall, and Rudyard Kipling's Mandalay.
Unlike the majority of metres employed in classical Sanskrit, the āryā metre is based on the number of mātrās (morae) per pāda.
89) "These 'laws' are merely the tabulation of what my ear finds in English stressed or accentual verse".
Biceps is a point in a metrical pattern where a pair of short syllables can freely be replaced by a long one.
The Roman poet Virgil employed hemistichs in the Aeneid to indicate great duress in his characters, where they were incapable of forming complete lines due to emotional or physical pain.
"When the" and "and the" in the second line may be considered as pyrrhics (also analyzable as ionic meter).
A "tribrach word" is a word consisting of three short syllables, such as Latin nitida "shining" or Greek ἔχετε "you have".
After the Romantics, "elegiac" slowly returned to its narrower meaning of verse composed in memory of the dead.
Contraction in Greek occurs throughout the present and imperfect of contracted verbs and in the future of other verbs.
Depending on the position of the long syllable, the four paeons are called a first, second, third, or fourth paeon.
For example, an iamb, which is short-long in classical meter, becomes unstressed-stressed, as in the English word "alone".
"This is the third winter to have shaken the honour from the woods since I ceased to be mad for Inachia." Pythiambics Another couplet is formed when a line of dactylic hexameter is followed by a line of iambic dimeter, and this is called the First Pythiambic.
Similarly, South Slavic and in particular Serbian epic poetry sung with the accompaniment of the gusle is traditionally sung in the decasyllabic verse.
The Greeks recognised three basic types of feet, the iambic (where the ratio of arsis to thesis was 1:2), the dactylic (where it was 2:2) and the paeonic (where it was 3:2).
Alexandrines provide occasional variation in the blank verse of William Shakespeare and his contemporaries (but rarely; they constitute only about 1% of Shakespeare's blank verse).
See also octosyllable decasyllable hendecasyllable dodecasyllable References Diccionario de la lengua española © 2005 Espasa-Calpe
Secondary sources of Mesomedes' poems To Helios and To Nemesis are in a catalectic meter known as apokrota "sonorous." In each case, in place of the missing short element of the text (i.e., missing syllable) one often finds lengthening signs.
A metron , (from ancient Greek μέτρον "measure"), plural metra, is a repeating section, 3 to 6 syllables long, of a poetic metre.
In Plato's Laws, the dance is described as representing the offensive and defensive movements in battle.
It is also used in Italian and French poetry, and in poetry of the Croats (the most famous example being Marko Marulić).
Additionally, some English poets have responded to the naturally iambic nature of English and the need for a trochaic initial substitution to employ a cretic foot.
Ictus (S for "strong") and nonictus (w for "weak") have constraints on which syllable statuses can fill them.
However, some lines of verse are not considered to be made up of feet, for example hendecasyllable lines.
To further the speed-up effect of the enjambment, Donne puts an extra syllable in the final foot of the line (this can be read as an anapest (dada DUM) or as an elision).
1, a piano trio by Sergei Rachmaninoff (1892) Tríptico elegíaco para un percusionista by Salvador Chuliá (1990) Elegiac Cycle, 1999 album for solo piano by Brad Mehldau See also Elegy Elegiac couplet Poetry == References ==
He begins his rhythmic scansion with a three-level label for all syllables, but goes much further by elaborating rules describing how contiguous syllables impinge upon each other.
It therefore usually consists of eleven syllables; there are various kinds of possible accentuations.
In Devanagari editions of the Rigveda samhita: svarita is marked with a small upright stroke above a syllable: ◌॑ (Unicode: U+0951).
Around the mid-16th century stricter alexandrines were popular as the first line of poulter's measure couplets, fourteeners (strict iambic heptameters) providing the second line.
Choriambs are one of the two basic metra that do not occur in spoken verse, as distinguished from true lyric or sung verse.
Because dactylic hexameter is used throughout epic poetry, and because the elegiac form was always considered "lower style" than epic, elegists, or poets who wrote elegies, frequently wrote with epic poetry in mind and positioned themselves in relation to epic.
The term anisometry is used often by Professor Emily Klenin in her published analysis of Fet's works: The Poetics of Afanasy Fet.
It was the standard epic metre in classical Greek and Latin literature, such as in the Iliad, Odyssey and Aeneid.
Other languages have stress placed on different syllables but in a predictable way, as in Classical Arabic and Latin, where stress is conditioned by the weight of particular syllables.
According to both Aristotle and Quintilian, the first paeon was considered particularly suitable at the beginning of a sentence, and the fourth at the end.
Here is the seventh stanza of his rendering of Hamlet: Laertes returns to avenge his dead father and finds his dear sister half out of her mind, her life in all senses deteriorating: her father’s been killed and her lover’s unkind.
Perhaps the best example of a molossus is the repeated refrain of no birds sing in the first and last verse of John Keats's poem "La Belle Dame Sans Merci" (1819) especially for the way it forces the reader to slow down, which is the poetic essence of this metrical foot.
See also Monosyllabic language References External links The dictionary definition of monosyllable at Wiktionary Little Frank and other tales: Chiefly in words of one syllable (1838)
It was Surrey's line (modeled this time on the French vers de dix) as finessed by Philip Sidney and Edmund Spenser that was re-embraced as English heroic verse.
In Standard French, the pronunciation of hier (yesterday) varies between the two, [jɛʁ] or [ijɛʁ], depending on the context.
The most frequently encountered metre in Classical French poetry is the alexandrine, composed of two hemistiches of six syllables each.
Conomis counted a total of 1,985 in the tragedies of Aeschylus (528×), Sophocles (291×), and Euripides (1166×)—, but there are also examples in satyric drama and Aristophanes, where they are often paratragic in tone and impassioned.
It is very similar to blank verse in English poetry, and the two terms are often used interchangeably.
A fugue per arsin et thesin these days generally refers to one where one of the entries comes in with displaced accents (the formerly strong beats becoming weak and vice versa).
The word comes from εὖ "well", the adverbial use of the neuter accusative singular of the adjective ἐύς "good".
In Greek tragedy, characters exchanging clipped dialogue to suggest rapidity and drama would speak in hemistichs (in hemistichomythia).
Jagatī metre The jagatī metre has lines of 12 syllables, and its overall scheme is: / x – x – / x ᴗ ᴗ – / ᴗ – ᴗ x / where x = a syllable which is either long or short.
Prince later adopted Neo-Miltonic Syllabics when writing his own work, Afterword on Rupert Brooke (1976).
Kannada prosody (Kannada: ಕನ್ನಡ ಛಂದಸ್ಸು, romanized: Kannada Chhandassu) is the study of metres used in Kannada poetry, describing the rhythmic structure of a verse.
A Greek work on metre compiled in the 13th century AD, the Anonymus Ambrosianus, refers the words arsis and thesis to a whole line: "Arsis refers to the beginning of a line, thesis to the end." In word-prosody Some later grammarians applied the terms arsis and thesis to the prosody of words.
Eliot later identified this as "the point de repere usually taken as the starting point of modern poetry," since hundreds of poets were led to adopt vers libre as their medium.
Only a few of them were widely used by the professional poets (Beirdd yr Uchelwyr), and the use of some of the more complicated ones is confined to occasional poems of technical virtuosity dating to the end of the Middle Ages.
Where the common unit of verse is based on meter or rhyme, the common unit of prose is purely grammatical, such as a sentence or paragraph.
William Blake's "Song ('I Love the Jocund Dance')" (1783) uses a loose iambic trimeter that sometimes incorporates additional weak syllables: I love the jocund dance, The softly breathing song, Where innocent eyes do glance, And where lisps the maiden's tongue.
However, in classical times they were pronounced differently; for example, the indefinite article suffix -ē did not rhyme with -ī 'you are'.
Special forms A number of stricter forms of accentual verse exist, including: Accentual-syllabic verse is an extension of accentual verse that also fixes the syllables.
In disassociating arsis from raised pitch, these writers clearly use the terms in a different way from pseudo-Priscian.
The final syllable of each line in the above fragment counts as short and brevis in longo is not observed.
Jamaican deejay toasting also influenced various types of dance music, such as jungle music and UK garage.
Tetracolon meter (מִשְׁקָל מְרֻבָּע) -- used by the earliest authors of piyyut, in the pre-classical period of piyyut (through the fifth century), and subsequently for some very traditional genres, such as the ‘Avoda genre.
However, since the pronunciation of Hebrew no longer distinguishes long and short vowels, the various melodies used for such hymns these days are often in different rhythms that ignore the characteristic u – – – foot of the hazaj.
Different mātrika metres have different rules determining caesurae; most require a specific pattern of rhyme.
This basic approach has subsequently been used to scan English verse by Marina Tarlinskaja, Derek Attridge, and Peter L.
There are numerous examples from the 16th century and a few from the 17th; the most prominent of these is Michael Drayton's Poly-Olbion (1612) in couplets of iambic hexameter.
A hemistich (; via Latin from Greek ἡμιστίχιον, from ἡμι- "half" and στίχος "verse") is a half-line of verse, followed and preceded by a caesura, that makes up a single overall prosodic or verse unit.
Subdivisions Kannada metres are categorised as Amsha and Maatra (syllabic and quantitative), or as Vaidika and Laukika metres.
Overview In addition to these seven, there are fourteen less frequent syllable-based metres (Varna-vritta or Akshara-chandas): 8.
Wimsatt & Monroe Beardsley the first to use multiple slashes: none other than Thomas Jefferson used a 5-level notational system of accents ("////" for strongest stress, down to "/" for little stress, and no mark for "no" stress).
Coleridge was quite aware that his definition conflated the elegiac with the lyric, but he was emphasizing the recollected and reflective nature of the lyric he favored and referring to the sort of elegy that had been popularized by Gray.
If a word ending in a short vowel (or -m in Latin) is followed by a word beginning with a vowel (or h-), the final vowel is usually not regarded as a separate syllable.
A similar sound is found in mento and now can be heard over musical styles including ska, reggae, dancehall, dub, grime, hip-hop, soca and bouyon music.
For example, in the opening line of the Iliad: This line includes a masculine caesura after θεὰ, a natural break that separates the line into two logical parts.
In Arabic poetry, a bayt corresponds to a single line divided into two hemistichs of equal length, each containing two, three or four feet, or from 16 to 32 syllables.
It is the verse in which most Greek folk songs are written, including such temporally distant works as the medieval Cretan romance "Erotokritos" and the 3rd draft of Dionysios Solomos' "The Free Besieged", considered the masterpiece of modern Greek poetry.
An example in Latin is the hymn Aeterne rerum conditor composed in the 4th century by St Ambrose, which begins: Aetérne rḗrum cónditór, noctém diémque quī́ regís, ...
It is constructed from feet in which the first syllable is stressed and may be followed by a variable number of unstressed syllables.
In Ireland, an equivalent would be The Rocky Road to Dublin, a tune which is both a dance-tune and a song.
Dennis Alcapone, Prince Hammer, Prince Jazzbo, Dillinger, Clint Eastwood, Trinity, U Brown, U-Roy, I-Roy, Eek-A-Mouse, Anthony Red Rose, King Kong, Pinchers, Wayne Smith, Courtney Melody, Conroy Smith, Lilly Melody, Eccleton Jarrett, Nitty Gritty and Yami Bolo are all original singjays.
Early 18th-century poetry demanded perfect rhymes that were also grammatical rhymes—namely that noun endings rhymed with noun endings, verb endings with verb endings, and so on.
The poets Surrey, Tuberville, Gascoigne, Balassone, Golding and others all used the Poulter's Measure, the rhyming fourteener with authority.
Historically, English syllabics have not evolved over time from native practice, but rather are the inventions of literate poets, primarily in the 20th century.
Nor does it imply that the line should be read monotonously in only 2 registers ("when Ajax STRIVES some ROCK'S vast WEIGHT to THROW").
The end of the 20th century saw a renaissance in cerdd dafod, especially in the metres known as englyn and cywydd, attributed to the poet Alan Llwyd.
Therefore, the first syllable of a word like δᾰ́κρυ could be scanned as "δά | κρυ" (open/short), exhibiting Attic correption, or as "δάκ | ρυ" (closed/long), in keeping with the conventions of Homeric verse.
On the Prosody of Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes: Being a Supplement to the paper "On the Elements of Milton's Blank Verse in Paradise Lost," which is reprinted in the Rev.
The metre is often described as a "limping beat", sometimes characterised as "three beats of weeping followed by two beats of sobs".
Origin Some researchers have presented theories about stev "relating to language and poetry rather than to slowed-down dance": Ivar Mortensson-Egnund (in 1914), Idar Handagard (in 1942), O.M.
In poetry, a heterodyne is a word in which the syllable receiving stress and/or pitch change is other than the syllable of longer quantity.
In accentual-syllabic verse we could describe a bacchius as a foot that goes like this: Example: When day breaks the fish bite at small flies.
1976 – Dietmar Korzeniewski, Hirtengedichte aus spätrömischer und karolingischer Zeit: Marcus Aurelius Olympius Nemesianus, Severus Sanctus Endelechius, Modoinus, Hirtengedicht aus d.
a combination of two groups of two trochees each (— u — x), with the second of these groups lacking its final syllable; or as a trochaic hepthemimer, i.e.
Wordsworth proposed that a "language near to the language of men" was as appropriate for poetry as it was for prose.
In the archaic orthography some of these silent stops are omitted from the spelling as well (e.g., "dens" for "dents").
It is the main foot used in the construction of the limerick, as in "There once was / a girl from / Nantucket." It was also used by the Victorians for narrative poetry, e.g.
In his Essay on Criticism, Alexander Pope denounced (and parodied) the excessive and unskillful use of this practice: Other languages Spanish The Spanish verso alejandrino is a line of 7+7 syllables, probably developed in imitation of the French alexandrine.
In accentual verse, often used in English, a dactyl is a stressed syllable followed by two unstressed syllables—the opposite is the anapaest (two unstressed followed by a stressed syllable).
(See: Latin IPA) Length The breve sign indicates a short vowel, as opposed to the macron (◌̄), which indicates long vowels, in academic transcription.
Political verse (Greek: politikós stíkhos, πολιτικός στίχος), also known as decapentasyllabic verse (from Greek: dekapentasýllabos, δεκαπεντασύλλαβος, lit.
A long syllable (one that contains a long vowel or a diphthong, or ends in a consonant) with a main stress is metrically strong, and a short syllable with a main stress is metrically weak.
In Greek and Latin poetry, a choriamb (Ancient Greek: χορίαμβος - khoriambos) is a metron (prosodic foot) consisting of four syllables in the pattern long-short-short-long (— ‿ ‿ —), that is, a trochee alternating with an iamb.
