In 2009 in the Spiegel, the largest weekly news magazine in Europe, Karen Duve described the manifesto as "astute and highly relevant for current affairs".
In 2009, Hemant Mehta at The Friendly Atheist ranked Christina's blog in the Top Ten most popular atheist blogs.
What worries thoughtful theologians such as Bonhoeffer is that gaps shrink as science advances, and God is threatened with eventually having nothing to do and nowhere to hide.
He has been awarded the Presidential Faculty Fellows Award from the White House and the National Science Foundation.
The themes of the first two prizes are the reduction of inappropriate antibiotic use, and enhancing the safety and independence of dementia sufferers.
He has taught evolutionary biology, speciation, genetic analysis, social issues and scientific knowledge, scientific speaking and writing.
Onfray is often regarded as being left-wing; however, some observers have stated that he has right-wing tendencies.
Freedom from Religion Foundation He is the current co-president with his wife Annie Laurie Gaylor of the Freedom from Religion Foundation, an American freethought organization that promotes the separation of church and state.
In 2012, he pioneered the use of concepts from information theory as a measure of complexity in nature.
National Academy of Sciences rescinded Ayala's membership for violation of Section 4 of the NAS Code of Conduct, effective June 23, 2021.
A review in The Times praised the book as a "powerful counter-blast against the monstrous regiment of 'useful idiots'".
Career He holds law degrees from the University of London (LLB) and UCD (LLM) as well as a primary degree in philosophy from University College Cork, an MA and PhD from the University of Notre Dame and the higher doctorate, DLitt, from the National University of Ireland.
There is nothing more; but I want nothing more." Hitchens dedicated the anthology to the memory of Primo Levi and prefaces the book with quotes from Levi's If This Is a Man and The Drowned and the Saved.
His philosophy is mainly influenced by such thinkers as Nietzsche, Epicurus, the Cynic and Cyrenaic schools, as well as French materialism.
The Pantheon of Skeptics was created by CSI to remember the legacy of deceased fellows of CSI and their contributions to the cause of scientific skepticism.
He wrote that one can "think of DNA as an instructional script, a software program, sitting in the nucleus of the cell." He appeared on The Colbert Report and on Fresh Air radio to discuss his book.
coli long term evolution experiment, and examples seen in the wild, such as Peter and Rosemary Grant's study of Darwin's finches in the Galápagos Islands.
Boghossian was Chairman of the Prison Advisory Committee for the Columbia River Correctional Institution.
Its success has been seen by many as indicative of a change in the contemporary cultural zeitgeist and has also been identified with the rise of New Atheism.
Science blogger PZ Myers condemned these posts and went on to debate many of Kirk's past claims about feminism, writing that "this kind of thing has always been part of his YouTube schtick." After the incident, Kirk apologized to the Reddit user in a private message and later made a public apology.
As a speaker, she is a member of the Speakers Bureau for the Secular Student Alliance and the Center for Inquiry.
A professor emeritus of ecology and evolution at the University of Chicago, he has published on the theory of evolution.
Stenger who argues that there is no evidence for the existence of a deity and that God's existence, while not impossible, is improbable.
Making secular views and people welcome in politics and policy-making will advance human safety, security, health, achievement, prosperity and most of all, science."The organization began accepting members in April 2015.
Overcome any tendency towards tradition blindness by informing yourself in depth from all sides before making a decision!
an atheist or antitheist) could not possibly perform, and conversely, to name one immoral action that only a person with a faith could perform or has performed in the past.
Celestial Teapots suggests that the comparison with Russell's teapot is misplaced because Cornwell claims there are prima facie, albeit inconclusive, grounds for believing in God.
[whose] extended essay covers some similar ground to the others, notably in analysing the extent of Dawkins's ignorance of theology.
His doctoral students have included Roger Blandford, Craig Hogan, Nick Kaiser Priyamvada Natarajan, and James E.
In 2011, he debated with Stephen Law on the topic 'Why Won't God Go Away?' He was interviewed by Richard Dawkins about his book Dawkins' God and faith in general for the television documentary The Root of All Evil?
The modern atheist movement has three bodies of thought, according to LeDrew: scientific atheism, the view that religion is opposed to scientific truth; secular humanism; and libertarianism combined with rationalism.
The book explores what Hart identifies as historical and popular misconceptions of Christianity's detractors, with early material in the book being especially critical of New Atheism.
In 2017 Breitbart, CPAC and Simon & Schuster severed their ties with Yiannopoulos based on comments from the episode where Yiannopoulos spoke positively of sexual relationships between boys and adult men.
Raised on a small farm in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley, Collins was home schooled until the sixth grade.
He talks about the need to sustain "moral communities", a venture in which he feels that the separate religious moral identities of the "saved" and the "damned" can play no part.
Christina writes that she has struggled with depression off and on throughout most of her adult life, and considers herself chronically depressed and expects to take antidepressants for the rest of her life.
He was a member of the School of Philosophy in University College Dublin (UCD) (Head from 2001 to 2006) from 1986 until he retired in December 2015.
On May 27, 2020, Hedges announced that he would run as a Green Party candidate in New Jersey's 12th congressional district for the 2020 elections.
Abandoning a New Atheist movement "in terminal decline" for a new vehicle, "she remains on the same crusade, inveighing against Islam and having simply exchanged one banner for another".
Several aspects of both "Go God Go" and "Go God Go XII" pay homage to Buck Rogers in the 25th Century, a science fiction adventure television series produced by Universal Studios.
Richards) (2004) ISBN 0521815169 The Evolution-Creation Struggle (2005) ISBN 0-674-01687-4 Darwinism and its Discontents (2006) ISBN 0-521-82947-X Cambridge Companion to the Origin of Species (edited with Robert J.
In Chapter 6, Hitchens recalls being a foreign correspondent in the Soviet Union and a trip to Mogadishu, and how these experiences convinced him that, "his own civilisation was infinitely precious and utterly vulnerable".
Writing in The Verge, Adi Robertson stated that RationalWiki provided a good explanation of Time Cube, though conveying the "full impression" of the original Time Cube website was all but impossible.
Creation Museum visit Myers's engagement as keynote speaker at the 2009 Secular Student Alliance Conference in Columbus, Ohio, developed into an August 7, 2009, trip, in which 304 attendees visited the nearby Creation Museum in Petersburg, Kentucky.
Harris considers the variety of religions in the world, citing a religious basis for many ethnic and inter-communal conflicts.
Lindsay has written several books including Cynical Theories (2020), which he co-authored with Pluckrose.
Publications Musicals Mary Had a Little Lamb (Manna Music 1977) His Fleece Was White as Snow (Manna Music 1978) Books Barker, Dan (1990).
He also contributed a foreword to white supremacist commentator Stefan Molyneux's book Against the Gods.
"From Here to Mullahcracy", in Lila Azam Zanganeh (ed.), My Sister, Guard Your Veil; My Brother, Guard Your Eyes: Uncensored Iranian Voices, Beacon Press, 2006.
According to Armstrong, "My aim in this book is simply to bring something fresh to the table." References Sources Armstrong, Karen (2009).
The BMJ, while supporting the authors' assessment of the problem, was critical of the proposed solution.
Academic reviewers had praised the hoax studies of Lindsay, Boghossian, and Pluckrose as "a rich and exciting contribution to the study of ...
However, they had essentially forced themselves to create another episode, which they partially disliked because it meant they'd have to write more material concerning atheism when they felt they had done enough.
He describes himself as Catholic in religion, conservative in social matters, and libertarian in political matters.
Non-theists deserve a seat at the table just as theists do; the rally should put secular values "on the radar" of American voters.
This combination of high-level technical ability and highly naïve child-like beliefs could have disastrous consequences in the long run.
In July 2013, the RationalWiki Foundation changed its name to the RationalMedia Foundation, stating that its aims extended beyond the RationalWiki site alone.
Dawkins finds the pupils rote learning biblical stories, which are integrated into various academic subjects.
Dawkins describes his foundation's purpose this way:"Critical thinking is the real saviour of humankind.
Jonah Goldberg, writing in the National Review, said the "label is a bit overwrought", writing that it struck him "as a marketing label – and not necessarily a good one.
Kenneth Krause gave it a mixed to negative review in The Humanist criticizing the lack of an explanation of "how we can interest and invest the popular media in the serious science their viewers and subscribers have so evidently rejected" while characterizing the book with Chicken Little analogies.
In his book The Cameron Delusion Hitchens argues that in the last few decades, the Conservative Party has become virtually "indistinguishable from Blairite New Labour".
Honours and awards He has been president of the Royal Astronomical Society (1992–94) and the British Science Association (1995–96), and was a Member of Council of the Royal Institution of Great Britain until 2010.
Humanism Hutchinson subscribes to a radical humanist vision that eschews religious and social hierarchies of race, gender, sexuality, class, and ability status because they undermine the universal human rights, bodily autonomy, and self-determination of Black and BIPOC peoples.
She also suggested that both books are part of a modern debate that is suffering from the fact that the two sides do not concentrate on one definition of religion.
and Dawkins' God) argues that Dawkins is ignorant of Christian theology, and therefore unable to engage religion and faith intelligently.
Although Cartman successfully uses the Time Phone to call several people in the past including himself, they all hang up on him, and thus the attempt to prevent his do-it-yourself cryonics experiment fails.
Religion and morality The second half of the book begins by exploring the roots of religion and seeking an explanation for its ubiquity across human cultures.
To rectify this, large portions of the episodes that more reflected Parker and Stone's personal opinions were removed and replaced with less serious material.
In that vein, he says that science practices methodological naturalism, although it does not rule out the supernatural (i.e.
Cynical Theories (2020) Conspiracy theory promotion Lindsay has promoted several conspiracy theories.
Goldstein has written two biographical studies: Incompleteness: The Proof and Paradox of Kurt Gödel (2005); and Betraying Spinoza: The Renegade Jew Who Gave Us Modernity (2006).
In 2015, Christina received the first Secular Student Alliance Ambassador Award, which was the 2015 Secular Student Alliance Ambassador Award.
Stenger was born on January 29, 1935, and raised in a working-class neighborhood of Bayonne, New Jersey.
He cited American journalist Glenn Greenwald's comments on the Charlie Hebdo shooting as an example.
As a proponent of New Atheism, he is often cited with atheists such as Richard Dawkins and Sam Harris.
So the acceptability of axioms for modal logic depends on which of these uses we have in mind." Evolutionary argument against naturalism In Plantinga's evolutionary argument against naturalism, he argues that if evolution is true, it undermines naturalism.
On 1 September 2008 McGrath took up the chair of theology, ministry and education in the Department of Education and Professional Studies at King's College London.
Its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, subtropical or tropical moist montane forests, and rivers.
If this enjoyable comedy has a message it is that you shouldn't believe all you read on the internet.
According to him, regressive contrasts progressive, the former being a group that "[looks] for the worst in people ...
Chapters Lucretius: De rerum natura (On the Nature of Things) – Books I, II, III, V, translation by W.
Hitchens's political perspectives also appear in his wide-ranging writings, which include many dialogues.
Synopsis The book focuses on four major New Atheist figures, collectively known as the "Four Horsemen": Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens.
In The Tablet, Keith Ward criticised Dawkins for what he considered to be an indiscriminate and simplistic approach to religion.
He also describes as flawed his brother's assertion in God is Not Great that "the order to love thy neighbour 'as thyself' is too extreme and too strenuous to be obeyed".
David Silverman was the creator and executive producer of the event, and the president of the Reason Rally Coalition.
Plantinga has also developed a more comprehensive epistemological account of the nature of warrant which allows for the existence of God as a basic belief.
Allen Orr described the book as "an accessible account of what might be called the natural history of religion".
Synopsis Dawkins dedicates the book to Douglas Adams and quotes the novelist: "Isn't it enough to see that a garden is beautiful without having to believe that there are fairies at the bottom of it too?" The book contains ten chapters.
Peels distinguishes between weak scientism, which limits the validity of science to specific areas, and strong scientism, which extends this validity to all fields of knowledge.
Kirk addressed the issue further in a 2014 YouTube video entitled "Rape, Feminism, and The Amazing Atheist", in which he again apologized for the incident and explained the context in which it happened: his remarks were meant to be satirical commentary on trigger warnings.
Meaningoflife.tv In 2002, Wright ventured into video-on-Internet with his MeaningofLife.tv website, developed by Greg Dingle, where he interviewed a range of thinkers on their ideas about science, philosophy, meditation, spirituality, and other topics.
Critical reception In The Daily Telegraph Christopher Howse concentrated on the moral arguments in the book, and agreed with Hitchens that "to determine what is right and what is wrong without God, is difficult".
A moderate Muslim might be open to discussion of four of her suggestions if the question were framed sensitively.
(...) In a very pleasing style, it takes on every aspect of the blindness and human evil produced by religions.
Byrnes also reviewed the book in The Independent, where he questioned the validity of a number of Hitchens's conclusions, including that "atheists 'actively wish for disorder and meaninglessness'".
As long as science and rational thought are under attack by the misguided yet pious majority, our nation is in jeopardy.
The tone swerves hilariously between puerile double-entendre (there’s a running sequence of gags about ‘seeing Upper Bottom’) and lacerating comedy about the atheist movement and its acolytes".
In 2010, Trent Toulouse incorporated a nonprofit organization, the RationalWiki Foundation Inc., to manage the affairs and pay the operational expenses of the website.
Rubin described the regressive left as "the left's version of the Tea Party" and said that the regressive left would damage the Democratic Party similarly to the way that the Tea Party movement damaged the Republican Party.
He was featured in a New York Times article about the growth of atheism in Southern states, has given addresses on his own "de-conversion" across the United States, and has participated in more than 140 debates around the country and the world.
Instead, society's morality has a Darwinian explanation: altruistic genes, selected through the process of evolution, give people natural empathy.
The atheist Sikivu Hutchinson criticized the merger of the secular organizations Center for Inquiry and the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science which gave Richard Dawkins a seat on the board of directors of the Center for Inquiry.
He has apparently not read the detailed discourses of Count Roderigo of Seville on the exquisite and exotic leathers of the Emperor's boots, nor does he give a moment's consideration to Bellini's masterwork, On the Luminescence of the Emperor's Feathered Hat.
2015 In April 2015, RDFRS launched the Teacher Institute for Evolutionary Science (TIES) to provide middle school teachers with workshops and free online tools to teach evolution and answer its critics.
The author argues that strong scientism is untenable and self-confuting because science itself is based on common sense assumptions and non-scientific principles.
Nine times out of ten, one will be told not of some dogma of religious certitude but of some instance of charitable or humanitarian work undertaken by a religious person.
Dawkins and Harris seem unfamiliar with religious tradition as biblical monotheists know it from personal experience and deep study.
In contrast, Stenger believes that religion often makes claims that are very much within the abilities of science to investigate.
Kirk previously had over one million subscribers on his main channel, and has over 445 million views in total.
Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny was a The New York Times Book Review Notable Book in the year 2000 and has been published in at least nine languages.
Dawkins complained of the difficulty he faced in gaining tax-free status, which he attributes to the secular nature of the organization.
Publishing Castalia House In early 2014, Beale founded Castalia House publishing in Kouvola, Finland.
However, Onfray decides that Ferreira was not such a good candidate as Meslier, since Ferreira converted to Zen Buddhism.
In 2017, Boghossian was featured in Reasons to Believe, a documentary focusing on psychology and the science of belief.
Boghossian is the author of two books, A Manual for Creating Atheists (2013), a book with a foreword by Michael Shermer, and How to Have Impossible Conversations: A Very Practical Guide (2019).
The first Reason Rally was a public gathering for secularism and religious skepticism held on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., on March 24, 2012.
He received honorary doctorates from the University of Bergen, Norway (1990), McMaster University, Ontario, Canada (2003) and the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada (2007).
He received an undergraduate degree from the University of Bristol (1962), his master's degree at McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario (1964), and a Ph.D.
(1999) ISBN 0-674-00543-0 Biology and the foundation of ethics (1999) ISBN 0-521-55923-5 Can a Darwinian be a Christian?
On April 13, 2007, he was awarded the first of 100 bicentennial medals at Mount Saint Mary's University for lecturing there as the first presenter for the Bicentennial Distinguished Lecture Series.
She said that there are many goals for the atheist movement – more separation of church and state, ending "bigotry against atheism", and for some, persuading people "out of religion", and that it is a "valid goal" to work towards a world without religion.
Career In 1983, Goldstein published her first novel, The Mind-Body Problem, a serio-comic tale of the conflict between emotion and intelligence, combined with reflections on the nature of mathematical genius, the challenges faced by intellectual women, and Jewish tradition and identity.
2009 In March 2009, following proposed anti-evolution resolutions by Oklahoma State Representative Todd Thomsen, including condemning a visit by Dawkins to Oklahoma, he instructed the U.S.
Telepolis writes that Schmidt-Salomon mentions a pretty combination of science, philosophy and arts as an opposite of religion.
Gerard Casey (born 1951) is an Irish academic and former politician who is Professor Emeritus at University College Dublin.
Awards and honors 2014 Intersections Honoree, Intersections International 2013 Media Bridge-Builder Award, Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding 2013 Peter J.
The Delusion of Disbelief: Why the New Atheism is a Threat to Your Life, Liberty, and Pursuit of Happiness.
Media appearances Barker has appeared on dozens of national television and radio programs to discuss and debate issues related to atheism and the separation of state and church.
Nonetheless, science historian James Gleick describes Dawkins's concept of the meme as "his most famous memorable invention, far more influential than his selfish genes or his later proselytising against religiosity".
The book describes Hitchens's journey from atheism, far-left politics, and bohemianism to Christianity and conservatism, detailing the influences on him that led to his conversion.
In September 2023, astrophysicists, including Gleiser, questioned the overall current view of the universe, in the form of the Standard Model of Cosmology, based on the latest James Webb Space Telescope studies.
Event organizers were targeting an attendance of 30,000 people but the organizers estimated only 15,000 to 20,000 showed up and another source estimated even less actually came to the rally.
Stenger does not think we should be dogmatic about disbelief in God, but says the evidence is overwhelmingly against the belief.
Hamburger describes leftists along with liberals and progressives as the "primary adversaries" of the IDW.
At the very least, such views are legitimate—they may be mistaken, but not because of an elementary error, a confusion of science with ideology, or an offhand dismissal of the humanities.
He sees organized atheism as attempting to actively convert people in the same way as many religions do.
The essay generated criticism both from Christians, who interpreted her conversion to Christianity as merely a cultural response and not a spiritual one, as well as from atheists who were "baffled" that she had not addressed what they considered materialist rebuttals of Christianity.
In contrast, Wikipedia's content was comparable to the Encyclopedia Britannica, leaned slightly liberal and its editors leaned centrist.
In 2014, Ruse was named the Bertrand Russell Society's award winner for his dedication to science and reason.
It requires only that individuals of a species vary genetically in their ability to survive and reproduce in their environment.
presidential campaign, Steven Pinker chose Letter to a Christian Nation as the one book that he would want Barack Obama to read, saying: "Some have criticized the uncompromising tone of this atheist best seller, but it's mild stuff compared with the acid you guys have been flinging around.
I wasn't ashamed of them when I was doing them in private, I see no reason to be ashamed of them now that they've been made public." In 2012, Kirk was widely criticized for incendiary comments made on Reddit before he deleted his account.
Atheist Manifesto: The Case Against Christianity, Judaism, and Islam (French: Traité d'athéologie) is a 2005 book by French author Michel Onfray.
War on drugs Hitchens has written about the enforcement of drug laws, most notably in his book The War We Never Fought (2012).
According to the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, the argument also "conflicts with important theistic doctrines" such as the notion of a heaven where free saved souls reside without doing evil, and the idea that God has free will yet is wholly good.
Journalists including Howard Jacobson had accused Dawkins of giving voice to extremists, a claim Dawkins responded to by noting that the National Association of Evangelicals has some 30 million members, and also that he had invited the main UK religious leaders to participate, but they all declined.
Bill Donohue's Catholic League responded with a letter demanding the University of Minnesota and the Minnesota State Legislature take action against Myers.
She has also co-organized and co-hosted the Godless Perverts Story Hour and the Godless Perverts Social Club.
Together with 36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction, it established her as a prominent figure in the humanist movement, part of a wave of "new new atheists" marked by less divisive rhetoric and a greater representation of women.
In 2009, When asked by Bill Moyers if God is a figment of the human imagination, Wright responded: I would say so.
In December 2007 the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster was credited with spearheading successful efforts in Polk County, Florida, to dissuade the Polk County School Board from adopting new science standards on evolution.
Krauss, musician Tim Minchin, MythBusters co-host Adam Savage, actor-comedian Eddie Izzard, Paul Provenza, PZ Myers, Jessica Ahlquist, Dan Barker, and magician James Randi, and others.
Boscaljon recommended the book to general readers and undergraduate students to "understand the shape of atheism and how it has changed", praising that it offers "an excellent analysis of tensions and differences within the atheist movement" more broadly than just New Atheism.
In October 2015, The Washington Times reported that the American comedian and show host Bill Maher and British biologist and New Atheist author Richard Dawkins had "lamented regressive leftists who fail to understand they are anything but liberal when it comes to Islam".
The foundation has been granted charitable status in the United Kingdom and status as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit private operating foundation in the United States.
Life Born in Argentan to a family of Norman farmers, Onfray was sent to a weekly Catholic boarding school in Giel from ages 10 to 14.
Christopher Eric Hitchens (13 April 1949 – 15 December 2011) was a British and American author and journalist.
Summary Chapter One, "What is Evolution?", gives a brief overview of Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection as theory and fact.
Twelve sessions of psychotherapy with secular licensed therapists, either online or on-location, are made available to all forum participants.
In September 2021, Boghossian resigned his position from Portland State University, citing harassment and a lack of intellectual freedom.
Rees's post-graduate work in astrophysics in the mid-1960s coincided with an explosion of new discoveries, with breakthroughs ranging from confirmation of the Big Bang, the discovery of neutron stars and black holes, and a host of other revelations.
God's Simplicity claims that Dawkins imagines that God is an object but this is not how theologians think about God.
Individuals and publications associated with the term may reject what they view as authoritarianism and ostracism within academia, the (mainstream) science community, and progressive movements in Western countries.
In addition to Myers's criticisms of Egnor's arguments on evolution and Intelligent Design, Myers criticized the Discovery Institute's reliance on someone whose expertise wasn't relevant to evolution.
Michael Escott Ruse (21 June 1940 – 1 November 2024) was a British-born Canadian philosopher of science who specialised in the philosophy of biology and worked on the relationship between science and religion, the creation–evolution controversy, and the demarcation problem within science.
During the 2010 United Kingdom general election, Dawkins officially endorsed the Liberal Democrats, in support of their campaign for electoral reform and for their "refusal to pander to 'faith'".
The responses were "Bad", "Way Bad", and "Worse than Cartman", with the third choice receiving 80% of the votes.
Daniel Edwin Barker (born June 25, 1949) is an American atheist activist and musician who served as an evangelical Christian preacher and composer for 19 years but left Christianity in 1984.
The concept can be traced to the work of Julian Huxley, the first UNESCO Director General and a major contributor to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
He receives a phone call from a future Cartman, warning him to not freeze himself, but he dismisses it as a prank call from Kyle.
Harris quotes from Eastern mystics such as Padmasambhava and Nisargadatta Maharaj, but he does not admit any supernatural element into his argument – "mysticism is a rational enterprise", he contends, "religion is not".
McGrath is noted for his work in historical theology, systematic theology, and the relationship between science and religion, as well as his writings on apologetics.
With goals of bringing unity, energy, and visibility to the secular demographic, the rally can be seen as a manifestation of the secular movement that emerged in America and elsewhere in the first decade of the twenty-first century.
2010 "The War on Terror as Political Violence", in Marie Breen Smyth, ed., The Ashgate Research Companion to Political Violence.
Reception Science press The journal Science Communication gave the book a favourable review, noting that the arguments presented "may make the Ph.D.
Goldstein is a MacArthur Fellow, and has received the National Humanities Medal and the National Jewish Book Award.
unable to get out of bed in the morning without the dual guidance of God and Karl Marx." Amis said the views Eagleton attributed to him as his considered opinion was in fact his spoken description of a tempting urge, in relation to the need to "raise the price" of terrorist actions.
About Launched in March 2011 as a collaborative effort to provide an online space where deconverted clergy could gather to support and encourage one another, the Clergy Project eventually grew to become its own independent organization, receiving 501(c)(3) status in early 2015.
It addresses what Hitchens views as the national myth of the Second World War, which he believes did long-term damage to Britain and its position in the world.
The brothers fell out after Peter wrote a 2001 article in The Spectator which allegedly characterised Christopher as a Stalinist.
In December 2006, Casey, along with host Pat Kenny and Richard Dawkins, appeared on The Late Late Show to discuss Dawkins's book The God Delusion.
I at no point sought a public audience for these comments, and never sought to solicit anyone’s anguish.
Godard wrote, "What Hitchens can't seem to appreciate is that, even if 'Soviet Communism is organically linked to atheism, something his brother and others argue against (if somewhat feebly), and even if one accepts that Soviet tyranny was horrible, this says little about the existence of God".
Overview For Hitchens, arguments for atheism can be divided into two main categories: those that dispute the existence of God and those that demonstrate the ill effects of religion.
Flynn summarised that the book has "undeniable strengths, but its many and serious flaws erode its value".
Speakers urged those assembled to contact local and national representatives and ask them to support church-state separation, science education, marriage equality for gays and lesbians, and ending government support of faith-based organizations, among other causes.
Dawkins' website, richarddawkins.net, was banned in Turkey later that year after complaints from Islamic creationist Adnan Oktar (Harun Yahya) for alleged defamation.
His commentary focuses mainly on the Abrahamic religions, although it also touches on other religions, such as Eastern religions.
A negative response by the online atheist community to Watson's account of the incident soon spread across several websites, including Reddit, and became highly polarized and heated.
History According to Alexa Internet, Pharyngula.org was started on June 19, 2002 as an experiment in writing instruction for a class.
In answer to their appeal to the Bible on questions of morality, he points to selected items from the Old Testament Mosaic law (death for adultery, homosexuality, disobedience to parents etc.), and contrasts this with, for example, the complete non-violence of Jainism.
Fundamentalism suggests that it is important to distinguish between tolerant and violent forms of faith.
A MacArthur Fellowship in 1996 led to the writing of Properties of Light (2000), a ghost story about love, betrayal, and quantum physics.
He has been associate editor of the publications Evolution (1985–1988; 1994–2000) and The American Naturalist (1990–1993).
The brothers reportedly fell out after Peter wrote a 2001 article in The Spectator which allegedly characterised Christopher as a Stalinist.
Seymour was born in Ballymena, Northern Ireland to a Protestant family, and currently lives in London.
Cartman is informed of the possible presence of a Nintendo Wii at the Museum of Technology in New New Hampshire.
(A critique of scientist Richard Dawkins' attitude towards religion) The Big Question: Why We Can't Stop Talking About Science, Faith, and God (2015), St.
One day, he is called to the hospital and told that his son Vivek has been up all night masturbating continuously until he fainted.
Location shooting for King Richard's castle was at Alnwick Castle in Northumberland and the surrounding countryside in February 1983.
He has appeared on several national radio and television shows, including The Jon Stewart Show on MTV.
In 2016, Empire magazine ranked Holy Grail 18th in their list of the 100 best British films (Life of Brian was ranked 2nd), their entry stating, "Elvis ordered a print of this comedy classic and watched it five times.
The bridge, located between Earlsdon and Coventry city centre, is known locally as "Anarchy Bridge".
Wilson points out that the Soviet Union, which suffered from this in spades, got to the point that it was terrified of painters and poets who could do little harm to them in reality.
Together with musicals and light comedy in which nuns appeared, they were part of a propaganda attempt to make Spanish cinema feel good and new.
The Church also celebrates several holidays in honor of characters from fiction and popular culture, such as Monty Python, Dracula, and Klaatu.
Possible sequel On January 4, 2015, Maher tweeted a photo of himself and director Larry Charles with the caption: "Director Larry Charles on the Hawaii trip this year...was "Religulous II" discussed??", suggesting the possibility of a sequel.
Meanwhile, the events are witnessed by an extraterrestrial spaceship which has a monkey for a captain.
In the web series A Murder at the End of the World, there is a scene referencing the editor wars where a character asks a woman if she uses Vi or Emacs.
Emacs advocates have been known to respond that the editor is actually very good, but the operating system could use improvement (referring to Emacs' famous lack of concurrency, which has now been added).
In his review, Stephen Holden also wrote that "the film has the same loose, on-the-road structure" as Larry Charles' previous film Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan and commented: "Much of Mr.
attitude and expressed admiration for Bush's successor, then-President-elect Barack Obama, for whom he had great expectations.
In January 2017, Nijmegen Pastafarian and law student Mienke de Wilde petitioned the Arnhem court to be allowed to wear a colander in her driver's license photo.
Ishtar Rising, fully titled Ishtar Rising: Why the Goddess Went to Hell and What to Expect Now That She's Returning, is a book by Robert Anton Wilson published in 1989.
The collection features the original Natural Law article, but also includes an additional 12 Wilson writings: essays, interviews and a short story, all expounding upon the themes in Natural Law.
It is the school's fault for reinforcing the stigma around sex, and failing to provide proper sex education.
Peter's Square and the world's press assembled for a news conference in the Vatican, is in the throes of paranoia, believing that the appearance of the children is sponsored by manufacturers of condoms in a plot to embarrass the Church.
The trilogy is a satirical, postmodern, science fiction-influenced adventure story; a drug-, sex- and magic-laden trek through a number of conspiracy theories, both historical and imaginary, which hinge on the authors' version of the Illuminati.
Publication history Jaxon's God Nose strip first appeared in the Florida college fanzine Charlatan, where it was published from 1963 to at least 1966.
Almodóvar explains: "I came up with the story of a girl who drives both men and women wild, a girl who sings, drinks, takes drugs, occasionally goes through periods of abstinence and has the extraordinary experiences one would never have, were one to live a hundred years ...
The Church appealed unsuccessfully to the Federal Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights.
See also Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster Parody religion Wedge strategy Occasionalism References External links intelligentattraction.com
As a result, the superiors often operate from a distorted view of the situation, sometimes leading to poor results.
Kleps testified that the absurdist elements of the Church were intended to show that all religions are invented and silly.
During the 2016 United States presidential election, the meme was connected to Donald Trump's campaign.
Other Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence The Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, an international group of mostly gay men who frequently mock Catholicism and promote safe sex and AIDS awareness, hold anniversary parties and parades on Easter Sunday.
It was the last album to feature all six original members, as guitarist Kendall Jones left the band a few months after the album's release, and keyboardist/trombonist Chris Dowd would leave the next year.
Joshua Norton left Cape Town in late 1845 and arrived in Boston via the ship Sunbeam from Liverpool on March 12, 1846.
"Bob" Dobbs, High Epopt of the Church of the SubGenius, Here Inscribed for the Salvation of Future Generations and in the Hope that Slack May Someday Reign on This Earth (ISBN 0-671-63810-6) is seen as the "Bible" of the Church of the SubGenius.
Sloane (directed by Peter Moffatt) was broadcast on 15 July 1968, and Games (directed by Ormerod) on 26 August 1968, both post-dating Orton's death.
Pray TV (also known as KGOD) is a 1980 American comedy film spoofing televangelism, directed and co-written by Rick Friedberg.
Kyle Jarrow and Alex Timbers were given "Special Citations" from The Village Voice for developing the piece.
PFJ leader Reg tasks Brian to paint slogans overnight on Roman governor Pontius Pilate's palace, but a Roman officer catches him in the act.
A production was staged at the Lyric Theatre in 1984 during the run of which the actor Leonard Rossiter died whilst waiting to go on stage.
His "Rants" are a regular feature at the Starwood Festival and WinterStar Symposium, both produced by the Association for Consciousness Exploration (ACE).
Although not as openly greedy and vulgar as his children, Eli often prioritizes his own wealth and status ahead of spirituality.
However, the author also developed the logics of sex magic underlying the seemingly gruesome sexual scenes.
When the court demands written proof that the earthquake was an 'Act of God,' Krishna steers Kanji toward holy books such as the Bhagavad Gita, the Quran, and the Bible.
It also featured musical guests Lola Amour and Dilaw, who came to sing parody songs written and sung by Michael V.
The book is divided into sections—"Weird Science," "UFO Contactees," "Drug Stuff," and others, and each section contains a variety of mini-articles describing organizations.
Trilogy is a series of three novels written by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson purportedly between 1969 and 1971, and first published in 1975.
Events and protests The concept of Dinkoism has spread through social media but the movement has also organised protest events.
The space captain of their ship has the physical appearance of a chimpanzee and speaks with a voice which imitates John Wayne.
So, because everyone wanted to direct their own wives, Alatriste wanted to direct his own part with his wife, with me.
Plot A tragic love story of Bhouri, a 23-year-old who is married to a 45-year-old, the film highlights the exploitation of women in male dominated society.
Norris claimed that if people draw pictures of Muhammad, Islamist terrorists would not be able to murder them all, and threats to do so would become unrealistic.
He also gave me many ideas: In fact, if you do not like some part of this book, you may attribute it to him." Contents This work follows the typical format of a devotional of a Catholic saint, using it as a framework to satirize such works.
As such, she is more closely related to the Greek concept of homonoia (likemindedness), which was also represented by a goddess.
However, Pinal recalled: It is not true that Simon of the Desert was a medium-length film because of Gustavo Alatriste's economic troubles.
References External links SubGenius Art Mines – archive of images from alt.binaries.slack (contains adult images)
As the 2011 census form did not list religions, these had to be filled out; the total number of Jedi is not artificially boosted by those who were not aware of the phenomenon before filling out the census form.
The Last Hangover is a Brazilian comedy streaming television special produced by the comedy troupe Porta dos Fundos.
The Science Show arranged for Geoff Sirmai and David Fisher of the Australian musical comedy team "Comic Roasts" to write the "Steve Song", a parody of the Monty Python song about Spam, for Project Steve.
In November 2005, Henderson received an advance from Villard to write The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
The meme took off among 4chan users, who adapted Pepe's face and catchphrase to fit different scenarios and emotions, such as melancholy, anger, and surprise.
Yoism adopted the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike copyleft license for sharing original works in May 2015.
Unlike most Bible translation efforts, the LOLCat Bible Translation Project did not depend on one translator or a group of prominent ones, but on crowdsourced translation.
See also Christwire Westboro Baptist Church List of satirical magazines List of satirical news websites List of satirical television news programs Parody religion References External links Landover Baptist Church
Special features on the DVD include a commentary with Bill Maher and director Larry Charles, deleted scenes, and extended Bill Maher monologues from around the world that were either edited down or not included in the film at all.
Plot summary The story takes place in a fictional European country on the eve of the religious festival of Saint Jorgen, the highlight of which is the selection of his "bride" who receives a significant monetary prize.
Dinkoism (), the Dinkoist religion, or Dinkamatham is a parody religion and social movement that emerged and evolved on social networks organized by independent welfare groups in the Indian state of Kerala.
Dick, and the potential pitfalls of blindly accepting 'expert' opinion; all loosely connected by the underlying theme of the perspectival and relative construction of reality.
The new format is a big success but attracts an incompatible mix of fringe ministries and broadcasters wanting time on the station.
It covers familiar Wilson territory such as the writings of James Joyce, Carl Jung, linguistics, and coincidence.
The news of the arrest created a worldwide interest in the case with the Twitter hashtag #FreeGeronPastitsios becoming a global trending topic and a relevant petition by the Humanist Union of Greece has received over 10,000 signatures so far on Change.org.
Background As of 2020, both Emacs and vi can lay claim to being among the longest-lived application programs of all time, as well as being the two most commonly used text editors on Linux and Unix.
Proper etiquette on the newsgroup dictates that credit be given where it is due, and acknowledgment of the ownership of "Bob's" image by the Church is accepted by the regular newsgroup participants.
Shortly after its creation, via forged Usenet control messages in 1995, the newsgroup was targeted by warez traders, who tried to use it for the distribution of pirated commercial software.
The Principia describes the Discordian Society and its Goddess Eris, as well as the basics of the POEE denomination of Discordianism.
It is a revision of Wilson's earlier The Book of the Breast, first published by Playboy Press in 1974, which contained many images not present in the current version.
They maintain that their followers, but not the pinks, are capable of developing an imagination; the Church teaches that Dobbs has empowered its members to see through these illusions.
According to Radio France Internationale, and Newsweek, pages were blocked on Wikipedia by the Pakistan agency due to what the government described as "growing sacrilegious contents".
A founder of the Sisters considered "Play Fair!" to be "one of the Order's greatest achievements in community education and support".
High-ranking priests as well as believers proposed that the Elder should be recognised as a Saint by the Orthodox Church (which was later realized).
Nationally On a national scale, the Black Death had recently arrived in England, probably through Weymouth, Dorset.
It also has a brief appearance by Cecilia Roth as Mercedes, a former redeemer and lover of the Mother Superior.
With few opportunities for spiritual ministry, the nuns have begun to indulge in their own idiosyncratic pursuits in order to pass the time.
The Boo Hoo Bible has been described as "requiring its reader to transcend the personal in an act that simultaneously simulates and dissimulates, establishing and overcoming the ironic....
A game among UNIX users, either to test the depth of an Emacs user's understanding of the editor or to poke fun at the complexity of Emacs, involved predicting what would happen if a user held down a modifier key (such as Ctrl or Alt) and typed their own name.
In the February 27, 1966, episode of the western television series Bonanza, titled "The Emperor Norton," Sam Jaffe played the title role.
Plot The film features followers and members of the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, called 'Pastafari', as they practice and campaign politically, legally and socially to obtain the same privileges and legal exemptions granted to religions.
They contacted Leslie, who thought the script was hilarious." During the film's production, producer Steve Wizan denied that the film was an outright parody of The Exorcist, stating: "It’s not an Exorcist spoof.
The other showed pieces of the plane falling on an Islamic State (ISIS) fighter with the caption: "Russia's air force intensifies its bombing".
As of March 27, 2008, approximately 61% of the text had been adapted, and Grondin stated that he hoped the entire New Testament would be complete by the end of 2008.
In the garden adjacent to the old mansion, there is a fig tree, which, according to legend, has miraculous properties.
ICBC claimed their October 2014 definitive refusal was based on the fact that it would only 'accommodate customers with head coverings where their faith prohibits them from removing it', and that 'Mr.
("Using a free version of vi is not a sin but a penance.") The Church of Emacs has its own newsgroup, alt.religion.emacs, that has posts purporting to support this belief system.
Once there, scenes are shown depicting Rome during the Fascist regime in the 1930s as well as in the 1970s.
Police arrested and charged eight of the Pastafarians with attempting to hold an unsanctioned rally.
Arthur and his knights arrive at a castle occupied by French soldiers, who claim to have the Grail and taunt the Britons, driving them back with a barrage of barnyard animals.
Interpretation The preacher The print depicts a preacher – his open mouth and scale of vociferation an allusion to George Whitefield's powerful voice – speaking to a church congregation from the top of a high pulpit.
We wanted to crystallize some of our favorite themes from the Principia, those of radical free will and self-emancipation." The goal was to encourage "critical thinking and self awareness" in the reader.
Wraith (loosely based on Jerry Falwell), demands that the National Guard be called in, leading to a siege and an unexpected outcome to the entire situation.
The IPU is a rhetorical illustration used by agnostics, atheists, and other religious skeptics as a contemporary version of Russell's teapot, sometimes mentioned in conjunction with the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
A common challenge against atheism is the idea that atheism is itself a form of "faith", a belief without proof.
Parody religions may also use their social organization to create a sense of community and belonging among their followers, or as a way to comment on societal issues or political ideologies.
Argument to Prove that the Abolishing of Christianity in England May, as Things Now Stand Today, be Attended with Some Inconveniences, and Perhaps not public domain audiobook at LibriVox
Colonel Hudibras' humiliations arrive sometimes by the skills and courage of women, and the epic ends with a witty and detailed declaration by the latest female to get the better of him that women are intellectually superior to men.
The title references the word "bali" which means "break" (in Filipino), which "BaliSong" means a break between songs during the gags.
External links Collection of medieval drinkers and gamblers masses Discussion of medieval humor, including Latin drinkers mass and translation in appendix
In the second of these attacks, 12 people were killed, including publishing director Charb and several other prominent cartoonists.
As explained on the back cover the title is a deliberate misspelling suggesting the "mad dervish whirl of coincidence and synchronicity" to be found within.
Our song is very timely!" Music video The song's music video was directed by David Hogan and produced by Daniel Stewart for Limelight Productions.
This idiom is thought to originate in American English, although similar or even identical idioms occur in many other languages.
Cast Michael Denison - Pringle Vivien Merchant - Tessa Ian McShane - Caulfield Bill Fraser - McCorquodale Production history Orton wrote Funeral Games in several drafts between July and November 1966, a period of intense productivity for him.
Despite appearances, the Devil is needy and co-dependent, often reduced to tears when God ignores or forgets about him, to the point that he planned to go to war with Heaven when God forgot their golf outing.
Sacred Ikon Around 2002, the Church adopted a new symbol called the "Sacred Ikon" or "Dobbs Ikon", which is a stylized cross consisting of three bars and a pipe, placed in a pattern that matches the eyes, nose, mouth, and pipe of "Bob"'s image.
It features an ensemble cast including José Zúñiga, George Lopez, Miguel Sandoval, Olivia Hussey, Elpidia Carrillo, Alexis Cruz, Jude Herrera, Marcelo Tubert, and Lupe Ontiveros.
In 2012, Nevzorov supported Vladimir Putin during his presidential campaign, and was his authorised representative.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 22 out of 100, based on 4 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.
Cultural studies scholar Solomon Davidoff states that the Church develops a "satiric commentary" on religion, morality, and conspiracies.
Pope dispatches the duo, but they were not beaten and summon all of Earth's corpses to form a giant, writhing zombie monster.
The book's essays and stories are illustrated with line drawings, message banners, cartoons, office memos and interviews.
The story was based on several existing accounts that were already circulating online and involved the miraculous recovery of a teenager who supposedly woke from a coma after his mother placed a talisman with dirt from Elder Paisios’ grave under his pillow.
On it, visitors track meetings of pirate-clad Pastafarians, sell trinkets and bumper stickers, and sample photographs that show "visions" of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
"Bob" Dobbs, the founder of the Church of the SubGenius, is commonly seen on alt.binaries.slack, where he appears regularly in images by many artists.
The establishment of new religions through open-source methods is closely related to chaos magic, which emphasizes the pragmatic use of belief systems and the creation of new and unorthodox methods, the difference being that any knowledge gained through such innovation is shared openly.
One episode where God began acting human had him delight in being unsupervised only to quickly tire of it being “pointless” without God.
Their sermons and songs routinely draw the attention of police and security forces assigned to those spaces, leading to arrests and significant media coverage.
A different attribution has been made by Lapôtre, who claimed the work to be a satire directed toward Julian the Apostate by the poet Bachiarius.
Publication history "The Marquis de Fumerol" was first published in the newspaper Gil Blas on January 17, 1887.
He requested that "Pastafarianism" be taught alongside intelligent design and "logical conjecture based on overwhelming observable evidence".
The 2021 United Kingdom census recorded a dramatic decline in the number of Jedi Knights with fewer than 1,600 followers in England and Wales.
It was first released as a 9-track vinyl album through Zappa's label Barking Pumpkin Records in October 1988, and subsequently as a 17-track CD through Rykodisc in 1989.
In June 2022, Nevzorov and his wife Lidia submitted an application to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for Ukrainian citizenship.
Background Alex Timbers developed the concept and directed the play, while Kyle Jarrow wrote the accompanying book, music, and lyrics.
His text is opened at a page which reads "I speak as a fool", and he is wearing a Harlequin jacket under his clerical gown.
Those unacquainted with Wilson's work would do well to pick up a copy." Reviews Review by Theodore Sturgeon (1981) in Rod Serling's The Twilight Zone Magazine, September 1981 Review by Tom Easton (1981) in Analog Science Fiction/Science Fact, December 7, 1981 == References ==
In the 2017 retrial, however, the case was dismissed, as it was determined that the statute of limitations had expired, following the introduction of Greek Law No.
The picture had a budget of one million dollars, and the soundtrack was created by Mike Bloomfield and Barry Goldberg.
The next day, to reduce his chances of being appointed, Edmund dresses up ridiculously, but to his horror, King Richard announces that he will be the new archbishop.
Briefly these were: belief in a messianic prophecy, use of psychedelic drugs as sacrament, a perception of reality as multi-layered and semi-subjective, and adherence to the principles of at least one of the world's major religions.
Like Terrytoons created Mighty Mouse and several other superhero characters, Dinkan borrowed a few traits from the iconic DC Comics character Superman.
In art and numismatics In Roman art, Concordia was depicted sitting, wearing a long cloak and holding onto a patera (sacrificial bowl), a cornucopia (symbol of prosperity), or a caduceus (symbol of peace).
They initially receive sarcastic praise from her, until the interview degrades into a tirade against their apparent lack of piety and their secular lifestyles, culminating with her judgmental admonishments and condemnation.
The film critic of the Venetian Il Gazzetino described the film as scandalous, but his counterpart in Corriere Della Sera saw Almodóvar as a true heir of the acclaimed Italian film director Pier Paolo Pasolini and applauded his attack on Christianity.
The Book of the SubGenius, which discusses Slack at length, was published by Simon & Schuster and sold 30,000 copies in its first five years in print.
An intentionally facetious graph accompanying the letter (with numbers humorously disordered on the x-axis) shows that as the number of pirates decreased, global temperatures increased.
Porter and the robbers develop a rapport that resembles shop talk among thieves as they discuss the best ways of investing stolen money.
Eager to reach level eight herself, Marcie asks for a more extreme game in order to level up faster.
The email asserted that any religion passing a minimum threshold (given variously as 8,000 or 10,000) would be entitled to some form of official recognition.
It ridicules secular and religious credulity, and lampoons the exaggerated religious "enthusiasm" (excessive emotion, not keenness) of the Methodist movement.
The play-within-a-play involves Diabetes playing a slave who is forced to courier a message to the king.
The song, which charts the growth of the Brian character to manhood, was composed by Andre Jacquemin and Dave Howman with lyrics by Michael Palin.
Some of their discussion centered on a powerful conspiracy, to which the Church attributes command of the world.
Oldhead, who has glasses and a beard, is grumpy and blasé, and is usually happy to simply sit and watch Marwin and Shorthead exerting violence against each other.
The Matrixism website singles out April 19 as a holiday – otherwise known as Bicycle Day – marks the anniversary of Albert Hofmann's 1943 experiment with LSD.
The 27-year-old page creator would later state that he did this to expose the gullibility of the faithful, and also to show the poor fact-checking done among the religious and conservative blogosphere.
December 2015 The United Church of Bacon posted a holiday billboard in December 2015 which stated "Merry Christmas and Happy Hanukkah from 13,000+ Atheists & Skeptics at United Church of Bacon".
Curtis was generally critical of the first series, stating that while comedy writers hone their craft first by writing sketches and then progress to writing situation comedy, the most successful parts of The Black Adder were in essence just sketches.
The hoax comprises part of a cycle of "Microsoft jokes" in which the Microsoft Corporation is portrayed as a wealthy but evil monopoly built on bloated or unreliable desktop software, planned obsolescence of products, corporate takeovers of once-innovative rivals, and litigiousness.
The following day, the robots have now evolved into incorporeal energy beings of transcendent higher consciousness that are no longer concerned with corporeal beings including Farnsworth, and send the crew home.
Robinson felt that, because he, Rowan Atkinson and Tim McInnerny had just begun to work together, this scene was the first time that the three of them truly "gelled" as an ensemble of performers.
The name gave several derivatives in Ancient Greek, including ἐρίζω erízō "to fight" and ἔρισμα érisma "object of a quarrel".
Furthermore, IF asserts that theories explaining gravity are not internally consistent nor mathematically reconcilable with quantum mechanics, making gravity a "theory in crisis".
Eric André as Lyle Lissons (season 2), a prominent Texas televangelist who wants to work with Jesse Jessica Lowe as Lindy Lissons (season 2), Lyle's wife and business partner Crystal Coney as Angie Steve Zahn as Peter Montgomery (season 3), a militia leader, and Eli's estranged brother-in-law.
Harry accompanies Edmund to Canterbury, where he is ordained as Archbishop of Canterbury and Primate of All England.
In the United States, David Headley and Tahawwur Hussain Rana were convicted of planning terrorism against Jyllands-Posten and were sentenced in 2013.
(Government documents only changed to New Style dates from 1 January 1753; see Old Style and New Style dates.) However, for printers and booksellers, and the general public, in Butler's day the year started, and the number changed, on 1 January.
Listed as a member of the Landover Baptist Church, Bowers operates several Christian ministries with names like "Bringing Integrity To Christian Homemakers" (B.I.T.C.H.) and "Baptists Are Saving Homosexuals" (B.A.S.H.).
The Jolly Company eventually formed a group known as The All-Joking, All-Drunken Synod of Fools and Jesters, which had a "Prince-Pope", a college of cardinals, bishops, archimandrites, priests and deacons.
Shortly after Jerome loses his factory job, his sister in-law Lenore (Dominique Davalos) comes to Rev.
The release was later expanded to 6000 screens worldwide, which included 5200 screens in India and 844 screens overseas.
The panel garnered an audience of one hundred of the more than 9,000 conference attendees, and conference organizers received critical e-mails from Christians offended by it.
The Schrödinger's Cat trilogy is similar in length, writing style, plot devices and the use of parallel universes for the novel's settings.
Behind him are the soldiers who died in his military campaigns, whom he promised would go to heaven regardless of their deeds.
His possessions included his collection of walking sticks, his rather battered sabre, a variety of headgear, including a stovepipe, a derby, a red-laced Army cap, and another cap suited to a martial band-master.
Elder Pastitsios (Greek: Γέρων/Γέροντας Παστίτσιος, romanized: Géron/Gérontas Pastítsios) is a satirical figure of a fictitious monk who first appeared in a Facebook page.
In addition to the generic advice of cultivating the natural love of chaos and playing with her, the Principia Discordia provides "The Turkey Curse Revealed by the Apostle Dr.
"Harder than Your Husband" is a country rock song, while Atkins classifies "Doreen" as "power doo-wop".
In 1984 or 1985, programmer Don Hopkins sent Richard Stallman a letter labeled "Copyleft—all rights reversed".
Plot God Nose portrays God as an old man with a white beard and a crown, sitting on a golden throne in Heaven.
However, computer scientist and lawyer Arnoud Engelfriet writes that "[t]he phrase ['All rights reversed'] by itself is not enough; a license must explicitly state the rights that are granted".
In contemporary terminology, this process is sometimes described as "hastening the eschaton" or "hastening the apocalypse".
The printing of this book also caused problems, due to rarely used laws in the United Kingdom against blasphemy, dictating what can and cannot be written about religion.
Several imperial coins depicted the goddess Concordia, such as those issued by Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus.
The fish was originally adopted by early Christians as a secret symbol, but the many variations known today first appeared in the 1980s.
X-Day is a traditional part of the Church of the SubGenius, a religion formed as a parody of cults and extreme religious groups, and their pamphlets and claims.
Also found were fake telegrams, including one purporting to be from Tsar Alexander II of Russia congratulating Norton on his forthcoming marriage to Queen Victoria and another from the President of France predicting that such a union would be disastrous to world peace.
The poster included a claim of sponsorship by an organization named "Citizens Against Citizens Against Humor or CACAH (pronounced ca-ca)", which Norris later said was purely fictional.
The Flying Spaghetti Monster became a symbol for the case against intelligent design in public education.
Along with crude drawings and altered stock photography, Henderson employs irony to present perceived flaws with evolution and discusses history and lifestyle from a Pastafarian perspective.
The comedy is modelled after Bertolt Brecht's epic theatre, in that the characters frequently point out the artificiality of the play and switch roles.
Much has been written about his person and his prophecies concerning the End times, the upbringing of children, couples' relationships, even the diet Paisios supposedly followed.
In what is now the standard edition (Oxford University: Clarendon Press, 1967), the editor, John Wilders, assessed all the early editions and chose as his copy text the 1674 edition of Parts One and Two and the 1678 edition of Part Three, these making up, as they do, Butler's approved final text.
The name ApologetiX is a play on apologetics, the defense of a religious doctrine, in particular, Christian apologetics.
In 1862, the French Empire invaded Mexico after the latter was unable to pay war reparations following the disastrous Reform War.
She is naturally talented at nearly everything that she sets out to do, and accepts any challenge that catches her interest without hesitation, regardless of difficulty or time constraint.
One writer has suggested that there is an element of paradox in the concept of respect for a sacred cow, as illustrated in a comment about the novelist V.
It is difficult to estimate the number of Discordians because they are not required to hold Discordianism as their only belief system.
The original primary religious text of the church was The Boo Hoo Bible: The Neo-American Church Catechism and Handbook (1967), written by Kleps, a mixed-media work integrating comics, news clippings, senate testimonies, and political-religious diatribes.
Johnson and the election of 1968, leading up to the election of Richard Nixon, delivered in the style of Biblical verse.
The spirit promises to give Joseph a breast plate and "an assistant, even Oliver, the pedagogue", a reference to Book of Mormon scribe Oliver Cowdery.
The order is facing serious financial hardships as their prime financial supporter, the vain and greedy Marchioness (La Marquesa), has decided to discontinue the convent's annuity under the pretense of economizing.
This game humor originated with users of the older TECO editor, which was the implementation basis, via macros, of the original Emacs.
The page created a hoax about a posthumous miracle by Elder Paisios which was submitted to various Orthodox, conservative and far-right blogs in July.
She murdered somebody and as the Mother Superior lied under oath to save her from jail, she is very devoted to her.
Religious scholar Thomas Alberts of the University of London views the Church as attempting to "subvert the idea of authenticity in religion" by mirroring other religions to create a sense of both similarity and alterity.
See also Brickyard Brickworks – Factory where bricks are made Charcoal clamp – Covered fire for producing charcoalPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Storage clamp – Type of storage of agricultural products References External links Brick clamps
Overview Bizen ware has ties to Sue pottery from the Heian period in the 6th century, and made its appearance during the Kamakura period of the 14th century, when changes in lifestyles have led to a demand for hard, durable and practical pottery for everyday use.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Kagawa) References External links Takamatsu City official site (in Japanese) Kagawa Prefecture homepage (in Japanese)
In the manufacture of float glass, a lehr oven is a long kiln with an end-to-end temperature gradient, which is used for annealing newly made glass objects that are transported through the temperature gradient either on rollers or on a conveyor belt.
It was constructed in the Keichō era (1596 - 1615) by Katō Junpei, a potter from Mino Province who had apprenticed at the Karatsu ware kilns in Kyushu.
Owen was worried that his lands would be confiscated under the Plantation of Ulster so he made representations to the Lords of the Council in Whitehall, London.
After the calcination process, the materials go to the sintering process in the kiln, which is located at the bottom of the tower.
The Cowell Lime Works, in Santa Cruz, California, was a manufacturing complex that quarried limestone, produced lime and other limestone products, and manufactured wood barrels for transporting the finished lime.
Internal heat exchangers Heat exchange in a rotary kiln may be by conduction, convection and radiation, in descending order of efficiency.
See also List of World Heritage Sites in South Korea Joseon white porcelain Korean pottery and porcelain References External links Media related to Gangjin Kiln Sites at Wikimedia Commons UNESCO "World Heritage In Korea" (PDF).
Each kiln is built semi-underground into the slope of a hill, and are a stepless form of the traditional anagama kiln.
A progressive development in technique has been identified, with more refined pieces being produced by about 1240.
The kiln is located beyond the sign and is a large rectangular structure built into the hill of approximately 8m long x 3.6m wide x 2.4m high.
NY-367, "Frey House, State Route 5 (Grand Street), Palatine Bridge, Montgomery County, NY", 2 photos, 2 data pages, supplemental material
1.3%), among the 2,267 ballots cast by the township's 2,832 registered voters, for a turnout of 80.0% (vs.
Excavations at the site From 1998 to 2001 the Hangzhou Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology [杭州市文物考古所] excavated the Laohudong (Tiger Cave) Kiln.
Initially the kilns were fired with wood, but during the Northern Song period (960–1127) there was a general switch to coal, easily found in north China, which required a smaller fire box, but the introduction of saggars to protect the pieces from gritty coal ash.
The Ōyamazaki Tile Kiln was located in the southwestern tip of Kyoto Prefecture, at a strategic point for water and land transportation.
The Copper Mine Hotel began operations during the 1860s to support the growing population with both accommodation and as a pub.
The firing chamber and combustion chamber are connected by a barrier with six holes located along its bottom.
Modern saggars are made of alumina ceramic, cordierite ceramic, mullite ceramic silicon carbide and in special cases from zirconia.
4d., to Wony McThomas McKernan, comprising the modern-day townlands of Ned, Doogary and Greaghacholea.
The Kiln Site in Jinseo-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 진서리 요지; Hanja: 扶安鎭西里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Jinseo-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
The earthen basins are believed to be storage places for clay, and the site of the pit dwelling to be a workshop.
It consists of 1000 houses grouped in three sectors: the Village Centre, Lower Peters Village and Upper Peters Village.
However, no remains of the post-Heian period buildings have been confirmed, and no medieval roof tiles have been excavated.
The Hizen Pottery Kiln Sites (肥前陶器窯跡) refers to Edo Period kilns located in the cities of Takeo, Taku and Karatsu, Saga Prefecture, Japan.
Radiocarbon dating of shards found at the site mark it as the northernmost known site at which this type of Sue pottery is known to have been produced.
The Hongō Haniwa Kiln ruins (本郷埴輪窯跡, Hongō haniwa kama ato) is an archaeological site with the ruins of an ancient Kofun period kiln located in what is now the Hongō neighborhood of the city of Fujioka, Gunma Prefecture in the northern Kantō region of Japan.
Hiking, fishing (depending on season), seasonal camping (including RV), birdwatching, and a few horse dog-friendly and mountain biking trails, and shopping at the Mountain Parks Nature Store await visitors to this park.
When it was built is unknown but it has been established that it is likely it was constructed in the mid-1850s.
Various feudal lords, most notably Gotō Ienobu, lord of Takeo, brought potters back from the Korean Peninsula during the Japanese invasion of Korea from 1592-1598, leading to production areas expanding throughout Hizen.
The site has been excavated since 1998 by the Goshogawara Board of Education, and of the 40 kiln sites, 13 were in good preservation and qualified for protection as a National Historic Site.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education Archived 2021-04-27 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese) Hitachinaka City official site (in Japanese)
The manor house in Nagykovácsi was built in first half of the 19th century by the local Teleki family.
West Branch The West Branch, 8.0 miles (12.9 km) long, rises near Kelton and flows south and east through New London Township, gradually turning to the east where it meets the Middle Branch to form the main stem.
These were found to be a type of noborigama kiln, utilizing the natural slope of the hill, with a total length of ten meters.
Overview The Konda Hakuchō site is located in between the Konda Mitoyama Kofun (tomb of Emperor Ōjin) and the Hakayama Kofun in the Furuichi Kofun Cluster, and was the location where the thousands of haniwa used in these, and other burial mounds in the area.
The site consists of nine flat kilns and three climbing kilns arranged in two tiers, the upper tier being the climbing kilns and the lower tier being the flat kilns.
Unearthed relics include eaves tiles, flat tiles, round tiles, and letter tiles, which were dated to the Hakuho period.
At the same time many other kilns around Arita produced wares in the same style, some using the nigoshide body.
Also known as the Waterman Coking Ovens, they were listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) in 1980.
The kilns each have three openings: a top opening, a door at ground level, and a rear window with a ramp for wood wagons.
The pottery failed in the mid-19th century, and the kiln is one of the few remaining elements of the Rockingham manufactory.
Drumhurrin, an Anglicisation of the Gaelic ‘Droim Shoirn’, meaning The Hill-Ridge of the Lime-Kiln or Furnace, is a townland in the civil parish of Templeport, County Cavan, Ireland.
Excavated shards fall within the historical range of the Southern Song (1127-1279) to the Yuan dynasty (1271-1368).
At the beginning of the twentieth century a local historian, Tokizane Mokusui, collected a large amount of Sue ware shards from the vicinity of the ruins and published a research journal, which led to recognition of the existence of the ruins in academia.
Two methods were used for this: 'A la chenille', packed in bags as general cargo via a conveyor belt.
Hurstville Historic District is a nationally recognized historic district located north of Maquoketa, Iowa, United States.
No glazing was used, but some works have a natural whitish glaze caused by ash present within the kiln.
The style was also adapted in Germany and Austria by the Du Paquier manufactory and in France at Chantilly, Mennecy and Saint-Cloud porcelain.
The total (harmful) air emissions produced by wood kilns, including their heat source, can be significant.
Overview In 1180 AD, during the Genpei War of the late Heian period, the great temple of Tōdai-ji was burned down by Heike forces.
The Dodo site contains two nobori-gama kilns built side-by-side on a hill, utilizing a south-facing slope.
Purpose of the Company The objectives of the company were as follows: Manufacture, sale and export of lime, cement and hydraulic products.
The site was the largest production area of Sue ware in western Japan, and the Sue ware from these kilns evolved into the current Bizen ware.
In 1995, he participated in Fire and Clay, a symposium of international clay sculptors held in Iksan.
Four of these sites were collectively designated a National Historic Sites in 1940, and an additional six sites were added in 2005.
Upon extinguishing the fire, the furnace opening and the flue were sealed to starve the kiln of oxygen, causing the iron contained in the clay to turn into a characteristic shade of dark gray.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Tourist Information (in Japanese) Ibaraki town tourism site (in Japanese) Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education (in Japanese) Ibaraki town official site (in Japanese)
Other lime kilns The Griggsville Landing Lime Kiln is one of only a few old lime kilns preserved across the state of Illinois.
It is estimated that these kilns date from the 6th century to the early 7th century, and supplied haniwa for use in kofun burial mounds across a wide region of the Kantō area.
It is a "single masonry 'perpetual-burning' limekiln", built of limestone blocks on its exterior and with brick in its interior.
Following the Act for the Settlement of Ireland in 1652, land held by supporters of the Irish Rebellion of 1641 and the subsequent Catholic Confederation, was forfeited; this included the Stack's land.
Pinxton is a village and civil parish in Derbyshire on the western boundary of Nottinghamshire, England, just south of the Pinxton Interchange at Junction 28 of the M1 motorway where the A38 road meets the M1.
In the Japanese cases a traditional regional style of pottery, produced at numerous actual kiln sites, is meant.
Many fragments of identical tiles have been excavated from the Tarumi temple ruins, located approximately two kilometers away.
Eastburn–Jeanes Lime Kilns Historic District is a national historic district located near Newark, New Castle County, Delaware.
DE-2, "Eastburn–Jeanes Limekilns, On Papermill Road & on Pike Creek Road, Newark vicinity, New Castle County, DE", 4 photos, 2 measured drawings, 14 data pages
Some other examples are the Lyman Scott House, in Summer Hill and the New Philadelphia Town Site, somewhere near Barry, Illinois.
Kawara (瓦) roof tiles made of fired clay were introduced to Japan from Baekche during the 6th century along with Buddhism.
Demand for bricks grew exponentially as the economy prospered, thus the government integrated all existing kilns in Taiwan in 1913 to form the Taiwan Renga Company (Japanese: 臺灣煉瓦會社打狗工場).
The subsequent owners, the Brameld family, built the Rockingham Kiln, and other structures on the site, in 1815.
It was a major lime supplier in the state of Iowa for masonry building and bridge construction in the Midwest.
The crackle arises during cooling, when the coefficient of expansion differs between the glaze and the body.
They are one type of "cross-draught" kilns, where the flames travel more or less horizontally, rather than up from or down to the floor.
A third expansion occurred around 530 AD, during which time the haniwa for the neighboring Imashirozuka Kofun were made.
The conjoined streams turn southwest and then back to the east as they loop around Bread and Cheese Island, formed between the Red Clay, White Clay, and Hershey Run by a backchannel now filled.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saitama) References External links Hatoyama town home page (in Japanese) Shinuma Kiln Site home page (in Japanese)
It can probably be explained by the fact that as the article was for a Sydney newspaper, reference was made, for ease of identification, to the best known large river in the vicinity.
The first reference to the Pipers Creek limestone deposits was made in November 1831 when Surveyor James Ralfe reported finding a deposit of "superior quality" limestone six miles from the head of Pipers Creek.
The Atsumi Kiln (渥美窯 Atsumigama) is a generic name for a historic kiln that dates from the late Heian period to the Kamakura period (early 12th century until the 13th century).
Therefore, it is generally believed that the Kurisuno tile kiln site was the core of the complex, and that the surrounding tile kilns were only in operation temporarily.
These require some ingenuity of design, since the tyre must fit the shell snugly, but also allow thermal movement.
Imitations Guan ware is "the most frequently copied of all Chinese wares", and the imitations began immediately, at the many southern kilns producing Longquan celadon and other wares.
A corridor from the Middle Gate surrounds the main hall and town pagodas, and connects with the lecture hall.
Fuller after the Nez Perce Indian Reservation was opened for homesteading in 1895, and his home is included.
Australia Lime Kiln Remains, Ipswich Pipers Creek Lime Kilns Raffan's Mill and Brick Bottle Kilns There were a number of lime kilns at Wool Bay, South Australia.
A temporary "bag wall" might be built at the front of the kiln, once loaded, to protect the wares from the direct flames, and enclose the fire.
Next to the park's entrance kiosk, all three known types of redwood trees, the Coast Redwood, the Giant Sequoia, and the Dawn Redwood (the latter two not native to the area) are planted together, providing a unique place to instantly compare and contrast the members of this family of trees.
The earliest mention of his list is from a late Edo period book from 1857 called "Historical Investigation into Domestic Ceramics" (Honchō tōki kōshō).
Latitude and longitude coordinates are provided for many National Register properties and districts; these locations may be seen together in an online map.
The site is approximately a 15-minute walk from Tofurōmae Station on the Nishitetsu Tenjin Ōmuta Line; however, the kiln remains have been backfilled and are lso located under the surface of the reservoir.
The total output from the Minera area quarries was estimated, in 1859, to be around 300,000 tons, with 200,000 tons of this converted to lime.
The southern portion of the stream, near Newark is in the Atlantic Coastal Plain, a relatively flat area that is dotted with large tidal wetlands.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Osaka) References External links Osaka Tourist Information Takatsuki tourism site (in Japanese)
The expedition stopped to build Cantonment Missouri, a winter camp along the river bottom below the bluffs.
There items indicate that in addition to jars, plates, and bottles, the kilns also produced items such as ceramic coffins, Shibi roof ornaments and inkstones.
Semi-subterranean in construction, the groundhog kiln featured a door leading into a long, low passage of brick or rock construction, with a stack or chimney poking out of the ground uphill.
Each pit is built in front of an artificial embankment that joins the hill contour but drops sharply on both sides.
The Continental Clay Brick Plant in Martinsburg, West Virginia includes a number of beehive brick kilns.
The Six Ancient Kilns -JAPAN HERITAGE- The Six Oldest Pottery Centers in Japan 古丹波 その歴史と美 | Old Tamba Pottery Museum Six Ancient Kilns of Japan
During the 570s under the reign of Emperor Bidatsu, the king of Baekche sent six people to Japan skilled in various aspects of Buddhism, including a temple architect.
These same types of tiles have been excavated from the nearby Shimotsuke Yakushi-ji temple ruins and the Shimotsuke Kokubun-ji ruins.
This temperature differential results in mechanical stresses throughout the molten glass, which may be sufficient to cause the material to crack as it cools to ambient temperature or to make it susceptible to cracking during later use, either spontaneously or due to mechanical or thermal shock.
In the churchyard, is the grave of Walter Burke, who was present on board HMS Victory at the battle of Trafalgar and the man who held Nelson in his arms as he died.
Another type known as downdraft bottle oven directed the hot gases back through the kiln before venting them through flues in the base of the oven.
Harris Farm is a historic home and farm complex located at Walkersville, Frederick County, Maryland, United States.
The Muromachi period was a golden age for Suzu ware, but it soon went into decline, and vanished by the time of the Sengoku period, unable to complete with large-scale production in areas such as Tokoname.
Nukata-ji was founded by Prince Shotoku in the Asuka period and claims to be the predecessor of the great complex of Daian-ji in Heijō-kyō.
The Muneyoshi Tile Kiln ruins are located on a slightly elevated slope of a hilly area surrounded by farmland.
Owen McKiernan was only partly successful in his claim as in the Plantation of Ulster, by grant dated 4 June 1611, King James VI and I granted 100 acres or 2 poles (a poll is the local name for townland) of land in Tullyhunco at an annual rent of £1 1s.
As Sue ware items from these kilns have also unearthed from the capitals of Heijō-kyō and Fujiwara-kyō in Nara Prefecture, this suggests that the kiln was not simply a local kiln, but had an official function as well.
Council Bluff: frontier post Fifteen years later, in 1819, President James Monroe dispatched a military expedition (the Yellowstone Expedition, led by Colonel Henry Atkinson) to establish a series of forts along the Missouri.
The design allowed the stack to draw heated air, flames, and ash through the pottery grouped inside and created the draft needed to generate the intense heat required to create stoneware.
It was built in 1808 and consists of a double-pile, center-hall-plan main block with a 1+1⁄2-story, stone kitchen wing added in 1882, and sun porch dated to 1931.
In 1971 the craft technique was designated an Important Intangible Cultural Property by the Japanese government; a double climbing kiln in Arita used for the firing of Kakiemon has also been designated a National Historic Site.
Characteristics The kilns were normally made of brick, and are one type of "cross-draught" kilns, where the flames travel more or less horizontally, rather than up from or down to the floor.
Alexander Emanuel Agassiz purchased most of Day's collection (over 4 short tons (3.6 t)) for the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University in 1881.
Gallery References External links Media related to Laverstock ware at Wikimedia Commons Photographs of Laverstock ware by Craig Rycroft on Flickr: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
The pottery produced from the site has been found in at archaeological sites to the south in Akita, and Iwate Prefecture and north in Hokkaidō, indicating ongoing trade across the Tsugaru Strait from the earliest times.
A TLUD pyrolyzes organic material, including wood or manure, and uses a reburner to eliminate volatile byproducts of pyrolization.
The south half of the site has been levelled and the perimeter is identifiable only with difficulty.
Site is divided into two roughly equal portions by a field bank running NW-SE, the area SW of which has been levelled.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saitama) References External links Higashimatsuyama City official home page (in Japanese)
Dannemand died at Aastrup on 12 March 1888 and is buried in the graveyard of the local Soderup Church.
Suzu ware products were typically made for everyday use, typically storage pots, water jars, or ribbed mortars used for grating food.
Overview The Funasako kiln ruins are located at the northern end of a hill connected to a spur extending north from the Hiko Mountains.
One of the rarest plants in the world, the dolomite flax (Linum dolomiticum), an ancient breed of shrub, is preserved on a strictly protected 10-acre (40,000 m2) plot in the hills between Nagykovácsi and the neighbouring village of Pilisszentiván.
San Juan Island is the second-largest and most populous of the San Juan Islands in northwestern Washington, United States.
It was in operation from the 1590s to the 1660s and at its height had up to 30 workshops with a round 300 craftsmen.
It may consist of refractory bricks or cast refractory concrete, or may be absent in zones of the kiln that are below approximately 250 °C (482 °F).
Heritage sites in Stellenbosch town Heritage sites near Stellenbosch town See also Cape Dutch architecture Heritage Western Cape Stellenbosch Museum References External links The South African Heritage Resources Information System – Declared Sites
Properties and districts split between multiple jurisdictions display the names of all jurisdictions.
Generally the firing was even across the various parts of the chamber compared to the dragon kiln, but the load far smaller, with saggars perhaps only hundreds of pieces, rather than the tens of thousands a large dragon kiln could take for a single firing.
By observing the smoke and its colour, the charcoal burner knows whether there is too much or too little air.
The Akahogi Tile Kiln site (赤保木瓦窯跡, Akahogi Kawara Kama-ato) is the remains of a late Nara period, early Heian period roof tile and pottery production site located in the Akahogi neighborhood of the city of Takayama, Gifu Prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan.
The site is located in the Irago neighborhood of the city of Tahara, Aichi Prefecture in the Tōkai region of Japan.
Hurst organized the Maquoketa and Hurstville Railroad in 1888 to ship the burned lime instead of hauling it by wagon.
Despite the opposition of many villagers, a housing estate was built over them, which increased the village's population by a large percentage.
Its chief geographical features are small streams, forestry plantations, a dug well and spring wells.
Local people converted the tomb into a lime kiln, and it contained rings, gold, silver, painted vases and bones.
In an excavation conducted in 1989 , the remains of four tile kilns were found, in the form of flat kilns made from hollowed out ground, with a length of 3.3 meters, and a width of 1.1 meters and depth of 1.2 meters.
The American International School of Budapest chose Nagykovácsi as the site for its new campus in 2000.
As a result of archaeological excavations, it was estimated that the kiln ruins were distributed in an area of about four kilometers from east-to-west and about 4.8 km from north-to-south, and there were originally about 500 kilns.
A large Douglas fir, which according to tree ring dating sprouted after 1870, grew from the rubble between Kiln 1 and Kiln 2, severely damaging both kilns.
The transition to Portland cement, which could be used to manufacture mortar superior to lime-based mortar, began the decline of the lime industry after the start of the 20th century.
The temple site is about a 20-minute walk from Tondabayashi Station on the Kintetsu Railway Kintetsu Nagano Line.
In particular, it was discovered that tiles from this site were used at the now-extinct temple of Yōfuku-ji in Nikaidō, Kamakura.
The 32-acre (130,000 m2) Historic District is located within the University of California, Santa Cruz campus, to either side of the main campus entrance.
A unique feature of this kiln was the presence of a second firing box located midway along the loading shelf; a side door would have provided access.
The site is maintained as "Shikinzan Park" and is about a 20-minute walk from Kishibe Station on the JR West Tokaido Main Line.
All of the machinery was in place as were other pieces of equipment used in the brick-making process.
The site is sensitive as it lies adjoining a Site of Special Scientific Interest and the North Downs AONB.
See also National Register of Historic Places listings in Providence County, Rhode Island References 41°53′49.7″N 71°27′33″W 41°55′15.4″N 71°27′13.7″W 41°55′0″N 71°25′37″W
Washington State Ferries serves Friday Harbor, which is San Juan Island's major population center, the San Juan County seat, and the only incorporated town in the islands.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefecture Board of Education official site (in Japanese) Yūki city home page (in Japanese)
The oven itself is inside the hovel and is cylindrical in shape with domed roof and foot (30cm) thick walls.
Fossils of sponge bone needles contained in the clay that rise to the surface during firing, forming white needle-like patterns, distinguish the products from other kiln sites.
This was uneconomical compared to the works across the river at Snodland, and Cuxton and Halling, with its rail connection on the Medway Valley line Peters Village Before 1999, a large area of allotments were situated between the school and the recreation ground.
John King John King is the inventor of a mining safety device, a detaching hook, which successfully completed trials in 1873 at Pinxton No.1 colliery.
He had recently been ennobled by Frederick III in conjunction with the introduction of Absolute monarchy.
It has been known since the early twentieth century as a ruined temple site, as old roof tiles were scattered on ground, but it was not excavated until 1959.
This kiln still exists and is one of three that were purpose-built for lime burning left in the UK: another is located at Langcliffe in Yorkshire, another is located at Llanymynech Limeworks.
In 2011 its population was approximately 1500, which has increased since 2017, with substantial housing development to the south of the village.
These labourers transferred unfired ceramic vessels, or greenware, from drying areas or glost shops into protective fireclay boxes called saggars.
A brick clamp is a traditional method of baking bricks, done by stacking unbaked bricks with fuel under or among them, then igniting the fuel.
External links Hangzhou Southern Song Guan Kiln Museum A Handbook of Chinese Ceramics from The Metropolitan Museum of Art
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Okayama) Irago Tōdai-ji Tile Kiln ruins References External links Okayama city official site Okayama Prefecture site
The risers of the stairs are lined with large pillars, and the upper surface is covered with round tiles and half-cut flat tiles.
Local farmer and philanthropist Caroline Foster has said it is likely that Munsee farmers cultivated corn in the summertime in the fields of the Washington Valley.
The earliest inventory to include Japanese porcelain in Europe was made at Burghley House in 1688; these included a standing elephant with its trunk raised and a model of two wrestlers.
Lime kilns are common to the area for agriculture to counter acidic soils, souterrains are associated with the Iron Age and some nearby metalworks date back to the Bronze Age.
It is now among the last in a region which was dominated by coalmining and limestone mining for generations until the 1960s.
The base of Mount Takekoba, in what is now the city of Takeo, became the main center of production, with about 90 kilns remaining to this day.
The periodic lime kiln is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, a designation it gained in August 1999.
In particular, the semi-mythical Chai ware, and Longquan celadon often feature in earlier groupings, and Jun ware is often omitted.
The haniwa recovered from this location were in a wide variety of styles, including cylindrical, "morning glory-shaped", shield-shaped, horse-shaped, as well as anthropomorphic in the form of a warrior, a figure blowing a whistle, a figure holding a vase, and other configurations.
The jagama (snake kiln or dragon kiln) is related to anagama, noborigama, and waritake kilns, and was used extensively in China since at least the 3rd century CE.
Most of the Sadang-ri kilns date to around the 12th and 13th centuries, although they are in poorer condition, as many of them had been converted to farmland in the past.
The ruins of four tile kilns were confirmed by a survey in 1976 lined up on the northern slope of the plateau, along with a clay excavation pit and the foundations of workshops.
1993 – Heritage assessment report focusing on the industrial archaeological values of the site was commissioned by Blue Circle Cement and completed by Peter Fenwick and Kate Holmes.
This corresponds to the name of a temple in the Shōmonki, a medieval chronicle of the life of Taira no Masakado.
Hasami ware was a major source of revenue for Ōmura Domain, where they produced the biggest quantity of porcelain in the country in the latter Edo period.
Equipment is installed to trap this dust, typically in the form of electrostatic precipitators or bag filters.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Miyagi) References External links Miyagi Prefecture official site Archived 2015-07-08 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)
Following excavations in starting in 1996 it is now thought that the site has been found, as the Laohudong or Tiger Cave Kiln [老虎洞窑] on the outskirts of the city.
Island life San Juan Island is considered a "small town" community, in that it is relatively quiet rural living with few distractions or incidents aside from tourism.
Overview The Suenosue kiln site is located on a southern slope of a hill and is believed to date from the 6th century.
It was produced in many locations around Japan by the 8th century, around the time of the founding of kokubunji national temple system in 741.
References External links History of Hoffman Preston Grange tour site Archived 2018-09-08 at the Wayback Machine Evaluation of Hoffman Kiln Technology
With the archaeological excavation of this large kiln site by the Tahara Town Board of Education in 1964, it became clear that a type of black pottery of unknown origin which had been discovered in many locations in the Tōkai region originated from this location.
Pronunciation The word 'kiln' was originally pronounced 'kil' with the 'n' silent, as is referenced in Webster's Dictionary of 1828 and in English Words as Spoken and Written for Upper Grades by James A.
For additional provincial heritage sites declared by Heritage Western Cape, the provincial heritage resources authority of the Western Cape Province of South Africa, please see the entries at the end of the list.
The combustion chamber for firing roof tiles is 6.15 meters long, and there are 17 stages on which tiles are placed, and there are few kilns in Kyushu that have a combustion chamber with stages.
As can be inferred from the name of the place where it is located, the entire area has long been known as the site of a Sue ware factory from ancient times.
A granite marker reads: Charcoal Kilns were built by Moses Byrne, 1869, to supply the pioneer smelters in the Utah Valley.
The detaching hook prevents a cage raising miners from a shaft from being raised up and over the headstock pulley when raised from a mine shaft.
Weekenders took the train into nearby Blairstown through the 1940s to stay at such places as the North Shore Inn, The Casino, and The Dove Island Inn (now a private home).
Overview The Kosugimaruyama Site located in the southwestern part of the Imizu Hills, in the western part of the Toyama Plain.
This includes many packaging processes: fabrication, cleaning, filling, sealing, combining, labeling, overwrapping, palletizing.
Methods Permanent fastening binds items by driving the staple through the material and into an anvil, a small metal plate that bends the ends, usually inward.
Including the cost of software, peripherals and systems engineering, the annual turnover for robot systems is estimated to be US$48.0 billion in 2018.
Some other food items sealed using ultrasonic welding include candy bar wrappers, frozen food packages and beverage containers.
Overflow pressure fillers are the most popular machines with beverage makers, while gravity filling machines are most cost effective.
The main motor may have frequency control of motor speed to improve speed regulation and save electricity.
Parallel architecture A parallel manipulator is designed so that each chain is usually short, simple and can thus be rigid against unwanted movement, compared to a serial manipulator.
This allows the printer to adjust the intake of label stock so the print aligns correctly with the media.
Welding techniques A number of techniques are used for welding of semi-finished plastic products as given below: Hot gas welding Hot gas welding, also known as hot air welding, is a plastic welding technique using heat.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Media related to Bottling plants at Wikimedia Commons Liquid Filling Lines
Mechanical Mechanical type machines use the toggle system for building up tonnage on the clamps of the machine.
RFID readers These are specialized label printers that print and encode at the same time on RFID transponders (tags) enclosed in paper or printable synthetic materials.
The slimmed-down SIG Beverages unit, manufacturer of PET bottle blow-molding machinery, was sold off to the German company Salzgitter AG in March 2008.
New products like the clearance gauge are able to let even novice users adjust seamers and optimize them, as well as locate problems with broken/damaged tooling, shank/bushing issues, seamer adjustment issues, or broken bearings.
They identified the benefits and reduced costs which came from sharing information about shipments with suppliers, hauliers and end users.
Today this kind of machine, thanks to its high speed and accuracy, has achieved widespread adoption in the packaging industry and is produced worldwide by a number of manufacturers.
Types There are different types of drum handlers available in today's market; forklift attachment, hydraulic drum lifter, mobile drum handler, below-hook drum handler and drum rotator.
Typical staple leg lengths are 1⁄4″, 5⁄16″, 3⁄8″, 1⁄2″, 17⁄32″, and 9⁄16″, or 6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 millimetres.
Skin staples are commonly preshaped into an "M." Pressing the stapler into the skin and applying pressure onto the handle bends the staple through the skin and into the fascia until the two ends almost meet in the middle to form a rectangle.
Operational control software: provides low-level decision-making, such as where to store incoming containers, and where to retrieve them when requested.
Where static control is a factor, special materials designed to either dissipate or conduct electrical charges are used.
The machine constructs plastic bags and stand-up pouches out of a flat roll of film, fills them with product, and seals them.
Inventory Management: Barcodes help smooth inventory processes by allowing quick and accurate tracking of stock levels.
The motion subspace of lower mobility manipulators may be further decomposed into independent (desired) and dependent (concomitant) subspaces: consisting of 'concomitant' or 'parasitic' motion which is undesired motion of the manipulator.
See also Shrink tunnel Shrink wrap Hermetic seal Plastic bag Plastic welding Tensile testing Waxtite References General references Selke, S,.
A disadvantage of the roller lineshaft conveyor is that it can only be used to convey products that span at least three rollers, but rollers can be as small as 17 mm (0.67 in) in diameter and as close together as 18.5 mm (0.73 in).
See also Conveyor systems Conveyor belt Chain conveyor Line shaft References External links Media related to Roller conveyors at Wikimedia Commons
The film may be laminating film, shrink film, agricultural covering film, bags or film for textiles and clothing, and other packaging materials.
Omnidirectional scanners are most familiar through the horizontal scanners in supermarkets, where packages are slid over a glass or sapphire window.
However, this is also to prevent the use of third-party compatible label rolls, a form of digital rights management similar to inkjet printer cartridges and laser printer cartridges containing a chip to prevent the designing and manufacturing of third-party cartridges.
The embossing tape and handheld plastic embossing labeler was invented by David Souza from Oakland, California.
Omnidirectional scanners are also better at reading poorly printed, wrinkled, or even torn barcodes.
The anvil often has two settings: the first, and by far most common, is the reflexive setting, also known as the "permanent" setting.
The labels are also peeled without the natural curl that will happen when pulled from the backing paper with fingers.
Automated goods retrieval for orders: On receipt of orders, the automation system is able to immediately locate goods and retrieve them to a pick-face location.
For removing lead paint temperatures below 590 °C (863 K; 1,094 °F) are used to minimize vaporization.
Cordless scanner (or Wireless scanner) a cordless barcode scanner is operated by a battery fit inside it and is not connected to the electricity mains and transfer data to the connected device like PC.
This would ensure high weighing speed while ensuring that overfilling of the expensive ingredients was negligible.
A thermally compliant print head, in combination with the electrical properties of the ribbon and the correct rheological properties of the ribbon ink are all essential in producing a high-quality printed image.
Today the term is used more broadly for any device which can be plugged in and contribute to the stream of data coming "from the keyboard".
This configuration allows the drum to be emptied without tipping and so reduces the risk of spills and operator injury.
See also Barcode printer Barcode Computer printer Embossing tape SureThing References External links Media related to label printers at Wikimedia Commons
Operation Injection molding machine molds can be fastened in either a horizontal or vertical position.
For example, for more precise guidance, robots often contain machine vision sub-systems acting as their visual sensors, linked to powerful computers or controllers.
Tonnage is required on all machines so that the clamps of the machine do not open due to the injection pressure.
To ensure precise batch sizes and prevent overfilling, modern automated counters incorporate predictive control algorithms.
Increasing the service life of a conveyor system involves: choosing the right conveyor type, the right system design and paying attention to regular maintenance practices.
In row-forming palletizing applications loads are arranged on a row forming area and then moved onto a different area where layer forming takes place.
More sophisticated systems also pre-stretch the film before wrapping by means of fixed/variable gear ratios or other, even more sophisticated means, such as hydraulic ratios which can better take advantage of film "sweet spots", improving performance and film savings.
Depending on the magnitude of the bottling endeavor, there are many different types of bottling machinery available.
Some of the products this machine easily fills are cosmetic creams, heavy sauces, thick shampoo and hair conditioners, honey, hair gels, paste cleaners, and car wax.
Their primary operating function is to join large numbers of paper sheets together in rapid succession.
See also Heat gun References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
This equipment is commonly used in chemical and petroleum industries, as well as industries that require shipping and storing of cylindrical modules.
Personal Property inventory (for insurance and other purposes) code scanned into personal finance software when entering.
The low thermal impact on the materials involved enables a greater number of materials to be welded together.
In a ferromagnetic workpiece, plastics can be induction-welded by formulating them with metallic or ferromagnetic compounds, called susceptors.
For example, a breakfast cereal containing hazelnuts and dried fruit plus two relatively cheap ingredients, could be weighed on a multihead with say eight heads devoted to each of the more expensive components and four heads to each of the other two.
All utilities for blowing containers and for mold cooling are carried through the main shaft or the axle from which the wheel rotates about.
The system operated at a low pressure, which is practically 0.4–0.5 atm below atmosphere, and is utilized mainly in conveying light free flowing materials.
Industrial robotics took off quite quickly in Europe, with both the Swedish–Swiss company ABB Robotics and Germany's KUKA Robotics bringing robots to the market in 1973.
Together with the multi-dimensionality of the signal, this defines a subfield in signal processing as a part of computer vision.
They are often used in kitting conveyor lines to ensure all pieces belonging in the kit are present.
Extended core wrapping is the lowest initial investment stretch wrapping system as no machinery is purchased.
Fragile products Weighers with more shallow angles of descent and various cushioned inserts have made it possible to pack delicate and brittle items such as hand-made chocolates and gourmet biscuits.
In the early 1900s, several devices were developed and patented that punched and folded papers to attach them to each other without a metallic clip.
Other dispensers are stationary and may have sophisticated features to control tape usage and improve ergonomics.
This sort of technology is useful in order to receive accurate data on imperfections on a very large surface.
Certain MicroDry printers can also operate in dye-sublimation mode, using special cartridges and paper.
The mix is filled in a pouch that is made of paper or poly that is formed in a collar and the pouch gets sealed by a series of heaters and dies.
Books, general references Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
The parts are sandwiched between a fixed shaped nest (anvil) and a sonotrode (horn) connected to a transducer, and a ~20-70kHz low-amplitude acoustic vibration is emitted.
It is also often preferred in the assembly of storage media such as flash drives and computer disks because of the high volumes required.
Heat sealing is used for many applications, including heat seal connectors, thermally activated adhesives, film media, plastic ports or foil sealing.
In addition to the conversion of the site (residential, commercial, retail, gastronomy), it is still home to the company's headquarters and a production facility with 200 employees.
In the 1970s, electronic advancements introduced the "electric eye" (photoelectric sensor) to register seeds as they fell through a designated hole, though this still relied on single-file vibratory feeding.
The program in Indonesia (initiated in March 2023) established more than 150 collection points in Jakarta and Greater Jakarta Area in one year.
Use Many everyday items have stick-on labels, which were either applied by a machine or by hand, and most likely were peeled from the backing paper using some sort of label dispenser.
The industrial site at the headquarters in Neuhausen am Rheinfall is located directly on the Rhine Falls.
Variations of this method will extend the cylinder and then use air to blow the label to the product surface (tamp-blow).
Variants Color thermal printers Thermal-printing technology can be used to produce color images by adhering a wax-based ink onto paper.
Hot-plate welding equipment is typically controlled pneumatically, hydraulically, or electrically with servo motors.
Label printers have a wide variety of applications, including supply chain management, retail price marking, packaging labels, blood and laboratory specimen marking, and fixed assets management.
Label dispensers and label applicators are machines built to simplify the process of removing a label from its liner or backing tape.
Railways, Vehicles (1853–1995) The Schweizerische Waggonfabrik ("Swiss Wagon Factory") was founded in 1853 by Friedrich Peyer im Hof, Heinrich Moser, and Johann Conrad Neher.
If one were to hold a strip of used carbon ribbon up to the light, one would see an exact negative of the images that have been printed.
Often forced air is used to improve convection, sometimes focusing the heat on one component of the item.
Sometimes wash down involves rinsing with fresh water; other times it involves use of detergents and other chemicals.
The deflection allows it to traverse the barcode in a reading plane, effectively turning it into a "reading beam." To accommodate stationary items, laser scanners incorporate oscillating mirrors that provide additional deflection perpendicular to the main scanning line.
They are often used in an industrial setting to increase productivity along manufacturing or assembly lines.
Seal strength is not only relevant to opening force and package integrity, but to measuring the packaging processes’ ability to produce consistent seals.
In this method, one user holds the robot's manipulator, while another person enters a command which de-energizes the robot causing it to go into limp.
The workerbot is still the first operative humanoid factory worker worldwide that can be acquired by purchase.
Dymo Corporation is an American manufacturing company of handheld label printers and thermal-transfer printing tape as accessory, embossing tape label makers, and other printers such as CD and DVD labelers and durable medical equipment.
Laminate foils and films often are heat sealed over the top of thermoplastic medical trays, Microtiter (microwell) plates, bottles and containers to seal and/or prevent contamination for medical test devices, sample collection trays and containers used for food products.
The larger wholesale companies have mandated that any product shipped to them have accurate weight checks such that a customer can be confident that they are getting the amount of product for which they paid.
In most cases, there is a trigger from an optical (or ultrasonic) device to signal the passing of a package.
The method of wheel rotation is typically conducted through an electric motor with a "pinion" gear or small gear to or in mesh with a rotating "bull" gear or large gear.
He showed his invention at the 1876 Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where architect Merik Herron helped make the base shape of the staple, and continued to work on this and various other paper fasteners throughout the 1880s.
Draw resonance exists when the film velocity at which solidification occurs is much higher than the velocity of the melted liquid as it exits the die.
A label printer with built-in keyboard and display for stand-alone use (not connected to a separate computer) is often called a label maker.
This type of Cartoning machine is widely used for packaging foodstuffs, confectionery, medicine, cosmetics, sundry goods, etc.
They are used extensively in food-grade applications to convey dry bulk solids where sanitation, washdown, and low maintenance are essential.
For items shorter than 74 mm (2.9 in), the conveyor belt system is generally used as an alternative option.
The area is cleaned of dirt and debris with the force and dissolving power of stream of water projected from a hose.
Impulse heat sealers have heating elements (one or two) of Nichrome placed between a resilient synthetic rubber and a release surface of film or fabric.
Only a few non-Japanese companies ultimately managed to survive in this market, the major ones being: Adept Technology, Stäubli, ABB Robotics, KUKA Robotics and the Italian company Comau.
A barcode printer is a computer peripheral for printing barcode labels or tags that can be attached to, or printed directly on, physical objects.
In packaging, it is used for package fabrication such as forming tubes from flexible materials, attaching plastic closures to package forms, etc.
First developed in the late 1970s, today there are over 70 manufacturers of these types of machines worldwide.
Sortation systems: similar to conveyors but typically with higher capacity and able to divert containers more quickly.
In this position, the legs of the staple are folded outwards, away from the crossbar, resulting in the legs and crossbar being in more or less a straight line.
The SIG P210 pistol was developed in 1937 based on the French Modèle 1935, and was adopted by the Swiss military in 1949 as the "Pistole 49".
Sealing machines: heat sealer, tape, or glue units Security seals, tamper-evident bands, etc equipment Slitting machines, perforating, etc Strapping machines, banding machines, etc.
Their factory in Neuhausen am Rheinfall was originally powered by the nearby Rhine Falls and employed 150 workers, which by the mid-1860s increased to 500 workers.
This plastic is transferred into the mold through the barrel, which applies pressure as the liquid travels to ensure even distribution of plastic into the mold to totally fill the mold.
Many gummed dispensers feature a heater, which is mounted over the feed area to maintain the dispenser's water temperature.
Business areas and locations SIG manufactures aseptic carton packs, bag-in-box packaging and spouted pouches for beverages and food, increasingly based on the world’s first aluminium-layer-free aseptic packs and fully renewable materials.
Care and maintenance A conveyor system is often the lifeline to a company's ability to effectively move its product in a timely fashion.
Tie bars: The primary purpose of tie bars is to stabilize and guide the platens as they are moved to compress the mold.
Label dispensers are generally intended to dispense a label to an operator who manually applies the label to the package.
Wine bottling process The process for bottling wine is largely similar to that for bottling beer, except wine bottles differ in volumes and shapes.
Once the trigger fires, there is a delay set to allow the package to move to the "sweet spot" (center) of the weigh bed to sample the weight.
These machines are labeled "full washdown", and must have every part and component specified to survive the washdown environment.
Medication Administration: Barcodes on medication packaging assist healthcare professionals in ensuring the right medication is given to the right patient at the right dosage.
This can be with uniform thermoplastic monolayers or with materials having several layers, at least one being thermoplastic.
These mirrors function at frequencies that can vary from 0.1 Hz to about 5 Hz, ensuring that barcodes can be read at different orientations.
Other types of heavy-duty roller conveyors are gravity roller conveyors, chain-driven live roller conveyors, pallet accumulation conveyors, multi-strand chain conveyors, and chain and roller transfers.
The take-up hub consists of a bar and a liner holder/clip, which are connected to the motor on a single side-frame.
All the bar codes appearing in the photo are decoded instantly (ImageID patents and code creation tools) or by use of plugins (e.g.
For example, a line that is running with a low average weight can be complemented by another that is running with a high average weight such that the aggregate of the two lines will still comply with rules.
The Petter-Browning patent was a refinement—and John Moses Browning's last design—of the Browning Hi-Power (P35).
There are specific types of palletizers including the row-forming which were introduced in the early 1950s.
Although a wide variety of materials can be conveyed, some of the most common include food items such as beans and nuts, bottles and cans, automotive components, scrap metal, pills and powders, wood and furniture and grain and animal feed.
Software Integration software: this provides overall control of the automation machinery and allows cranes to be connected to conveyors for seamless stock movements.
When combined with a high-speed projector, fast image acquisition allows 3D measurement and feature tracking to be realized.
Business control software: provides higher-level functionality, such as identification of incoming deliveries/stock, scheduling order fulfillment, and assignment of stock to outgoing trailers.
See also Computer printer Label printer References External links Media related to Barcode printer at Wikimedia Commons
Originally developed to replace manual counting and weight-based estimation, these machines have evolved from mechanical vibratory systems to high-speed optical counters utilizing photoelectric sensors, lasers, and machine vision.
A computer can then read the data from the strain gauges and measure if one or more of the pins are being pushed upward.
The ownership of the SIG site, located directly on the Rhine Falls, was transferred to the SIG Charitable Foundation in 2011.
Industries that require a higher output of materials - food and beverage, retail case packaging, pharmaceuticals - typically incorporate these conveyors into their systems over standard vertical conveyors due to their ability to facilitate high throughput.
These results typically lead to a higher confidence level in the quality of the weld joint and process.
This scanning method allows the system to accurately resolve seeds falling closely together, maximizing counting accuracy without sacrificing high throughput.
For the cylinder driven fluid power type, one axis is for vertical motion and the other for horizontal.
Moving from manual operations, through semi-automatic operations to fully automated packaging lines offers advantages to some packagers.
conduction sealing Conduction sealing requires a hard metal plate to make perfect contact with the container being sealed.
This causes the melt to stretch too quickly and the bubble diameter starts to vary along its surface.
A typical robot can, of course make a positional error exceeding that and that could be a problem for the process.
As a result, these staplers tend to be used in work environments where repetitive, large stapling jobs are routine.
Wheel machines are favored for their processing ease, due to having only single (or in some cases, two) parisons, and mechanical repeatability.
Granules and powders While free-flowing, fine-grained powders can be weighed more cheaply by other means (such as cut-gate or linear weighers, or volumetric feeders), granules such as coffee granules and products such as loose tea can be weighed on today’s multiheads.
When the weight is added, the movement of a ferrous material through that coil causes a fluctuation in the coil current proportional to the weight of the object.
An interdisciplinary exchange between biological and computer vision has proven fruitful for both fields.
It consists of four main subsystems: the injection unit, the clamping unit, the drive unit, and control systems.
See also Dymo DiscPainter References External links Media related to DYMO Corporation at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Process Heat sealing is the process of sealing one thermoplastic to another similar thermoplastic using heat and pressure.
One of the conveyors is pivotally hinged to the other conveyor for swinging the attached conveyor away from the remaining conveyor for access to the facing surfaces of the parallel conveyors.
The direct contact method of heat sealing utilizes a constantly heated die or sealing bar to apply heat to a specific contact area or path to seal or weld the thermoplastics together.
To guarantee the advertised number of seeds and avoid under-filling, distributors had to include a safety margin of extra weight in each package.
Carton interface The machinery needs to be able to consistently form, fill, and seal the specific carton of interest.
Feed-Roller: This actually is the first patented method used in the semi-automatic label dispenser to advance the label forward.
On June 1, 1998, CoStar Corporation, the manufacturer of the LabelWriter brand of thermal label printers, was acquired by Esselte Office Products.
Singularities are closely related to the phenomena of gimbal lock, which has a similar root cause of axes becoming lined up.
However, if 10,000 packs a day are being produced, and most are 110 g, 100 kg of product is being lost.
Decks and driveways Washdown is the process of using a stream of water to clean a flat or nearly flat outdoor surface.
In 1975, the Swiss military replaced the P210 with the P220, dubbed the "Pistole 75", which was the first product of a partnership with J.P.
High speed power analysis techniques (voltage and current measurement in near real time) can be used to intercept power delivery from mains to generator or generator to head in order to calculate energy delivered to the foil and the statistical profile of that process.
The second wrist axis then attempts to spin 180° in zero time to maintain the orientation of the end effector.
Products that cannot be moved on traditional roller conveyors can be moved by a multi-strand chain conveyor.
Several systems have been developed which use a heated platen placed on the material; the melted material is then pumped through a heated hose to its destination.
While originally designed for filling creams, gels and lotions these fillers also handle water thin and heavy paste products.
This section outlines some requirements of testing plastic welds as well as the different types of destructive and non-destructive methods that are applicable to plastic welding and go over some of the advantages and disadvantages.
Many also have barcode scanners to allow identification of containers more quickly and accurately than manual keyboard entry.
A Drum handler is a piece of mechanical equipment that is used to securely grip, lift and transport cylindrical modules such as steel drums, barrels, plastic drums and fiber drums.
The paper then passes over the print drum, at which time the image is transferred, or transfixed, to the page.
Beer bottling process Packaging of bottled beer typically involves drawing the product from a holding tank and filling it into bottles in a filling machine (filler), which are then capped, labeled and packed into cases or cartons.
However, wires, microcircuit connections, sheet metal, foils, ribbons and meshes are often joined using ultrasonic welding.
They can be designed in many shapes and sizes, hung from ceilings, raised on mezzanines, operated in ovens or in refrigerators.
Gallery See also Agricultural machinery industry List of agricultural machinery Mechanised agriculture Seed drill (box drill, air drill) References Notes Citations External links Dodder counting machine
Test methods might include: Seal strength per ASTM F88 and F2824 Seal strength testing, also known as peel testing, measures the strength of seals within flexible barrier materials.
Non-destructive testing Visual examination Visual inspection, just like the name implies, is a visual investigation of the weldment.
Friction welding In friction welding, the two parts to be assembled are rubbed together at a lower frequency (typically 100–300 Hz) and higher amplitude (typically 1 to 2 mm (0.039 to 0.079 in)) than ultrasonic welding.
SIG Group AG is a Swiss multinational corporation and one of the biggest manufacturers in the packaging industry.
Some of the more common applications are bulk mailing, manufacturing, packaging, food and beverage, fast food, and photo labs.
Protect workers from health effects brought by dust, toxic/hazardous products and prevent environmental contamination.
Mix-weighing Products containing up to eight components can be mixed on a multihead weigher, very accurately at high speeds.
Controlling movement For a given robot the only parameters necessary to completely locate the end effector (gripper, welding torch, etc.) of the robot are the angles of each of the joints or displacements of the linear axes (or combinations of the two for robot formats such as SCARA).
Offline programming is where the entire cell, the robot and all the machines or instruments in the workspace are mapped graphically.
Logistics and Distribution: Shipping Labels: Barcode printers are essential for creating shipping labels that contain information such as destination, shipping method, and tracking numbers.
History Prior to the development of the tape dispenser, 3M's standard clear scotch tape was sold as a roll, and had to be carefully peeled from the end and cut with scissors.
The process can also be highly automated, provides strict control over dimensional tolerances and does not interfere with the biocompatibility of parts.
Ultrasonics can also be used to weld metals, but are typically limited to small welds of thin, malleable metals such as aluminum, copper, and nickel.
These tools are easier to squeeze and better place pressure at the front of the tool where the staple is ejected.
Robot programming and interfaces The setup or programming of motions and sequences for an industrial robot is typically taught by linking the robot controller to a laptop, desktop computer or (internal or Internet) network.
By contrast, a case erector is equipment for setting-up flat (knocked-down) corrugated boxes and applying a closure to the bottom flaps.
Dymo was acquired by Esselte in 1978, and battery-powered printers became a major product after 1990.
Unlike the forklift attachments, mobile drum handlers have built in wheels so you can easily maneuver it anywhere.
Elmer and Elsie were often labeled as tortoises because of how they were shaped and the manner in which they moved.
Automation Packaging operations can be designed for variable package sizes and forms or for handling only uniform packages, where the machinery or packaging line is adjustable between production runs.
He felt that reading widely would help him comprehend the Qur'an, so he did not limit his studies to Islamic studies.
However, ritual-focussed Mimamsa school scholars were generally opposed to central ideas of the Hindu Grammarians, while others Hindu schools such as Vedanta championed them.
Latin text and annotated German translation of an ancient Latin grammar of the 4th century for advanced beginner lessons].
They propose to validate the view attributed to Śākaṭāyana that all words can be analysed by the addition of affixes to verbal roots.
Kātyāyana's work (nearly 1500 verses on Pāṇini) is available only through references in Patañjali's work.
These include comparative literature, computer science, history, linguistics, philology, philosophy, semiotics, and terminology.
Dante became familiar with Saint Augustine's works, the De Consolatione Philosophiae by Boëthius, Saint Thomas Aquinas's works and some encyclopedic dictionaries like the Etymologiae by Isidore of Seville and the Livre du Tresor by Brunetto Latini.
The theory of universal translatability is disapproved by some researchers, like André Martinet, who is convinced that human experience cannot be well communicated because it is unique.
It has become a source for how ancient texts should be acted out based on the experience from commonly read ancient authors.
So strong was Ibn Mada's refutation of grammarians that University of Oxford Laudian Professor of Arabic Geert Jan van Gelder referred to Ibn Mada as the Sextus Empiricus of the Arab world.
[◌ʰʰ], [◌ʰ𐞁], the latter recently added to Unicode after a request by the IPA, were illustrated for long aspiration [(1.3)] was added for a 1.3-second pause.
Ibn Hisham was endowed with extraordinary intelligence and a strong memory, as he was able to collect several sciences and excel in them.
During 1973–1993 she was the head of the Department of the Russian Language, then the Head of the Department of Russian Language and Speech Communication.
The rhetorical treatise Ad Herennium was attributed to him by some scholars of the early 20th century.
He was probably an African by birth, summoned to Constantinople to take the place of Euanthius, a learned commentator on Terence.
One work in particular that belongs to this province, Yesod Mora ("Foundation of Awe"), on the division and the reasons for the Biblical commandments, he wrote in 1158 for a London-based friend, Joseph ben Jacob.
However, he had a remarkable memory and wrote poetry in unusual meters, and he enjoyed a great reputation as a teacher; Quintilian and Persius are said to have been his pupils.
Much of the impetus for this work came from the desire of non-Arab Muslims for correct interpretation of the Quran and the development of tafsir (Quranic exegesis); The poetic language of the Qur'an presents interpretative challenges even to the native Arabic speaker.
He is perhaps the same as the author of a work περὶ Διονυσιακοῦ συστήματος, also quoted by Athenaeus, without any distinguishing epithet.
He was from a Sayyid family, and was a direct descendent of Muhammad in the 38th generation via Hasan ibn Ali.
Abū Bakr Muḥammad ibn al-Qāsim ibn Muḥammad ibn Bashār al-Anbārī (Arabic: أبوبكر محمد بن القاسم بن محمد بن بشّار الأنباري) (885–940 AD), also known simply as Ibn al-Anbari (ابن الأنباري), was a well known Arab philologist and grammarian of the Abbasid Caliphate.
Two lines of a poem Ibrāhīm recited before his patron are quoted by the 19th-century historian Aḥmad al-Nāṣirī al-Salāwī.
Kvergić of Vienna entitled "La psychologie de quelques éléments des langues Turques" ("The Psychology of Some Elements of the Turkic Languages").
A special issue of American Speech published in 2022 examined twenty-first-century perspectives on the Linguistic Atlas Projects, reflecting renewed scholarly interest in the historical data and its applications to contemporary linguistic questions.
In careful speech and in with certain function words, or in some phrase stress conditions (see Mateus and d'Andrade, for details), European Portuguese has a similar process: /ɨ/ + V → [jV]; se a vires [sjɐ ˈviɾɨʃ] ('if you see her'), mais que um [majʃ kjũ] ('more than one').
This book contains one of the most complete lists of types of dactylic hexameters in antiquity, including the teres versus, which may (or may not) be the so-called "golden line." Diomedes wrote about the same time as Charisius and used the same sources independently.
He handled this position efficiently and successfully, but in 842 he resigned so as to have greater leisure for study and prayer, retiring to the neighbouring monastery of St Petersberg.
According to Saussure, meaning arises from the internal network of differences within language itself; individuals do not use language merely to convey pre-existing thoughts—rather, thought is shaped and constituted by language.
Abu Al-Qasim Al-Fadl bin Mohammed bin Ali bin Al-Fadl Al-Qasabani (Arabic: أبو القاسم الفضل بن محمد بن علي بن الفضل القصباني) (died 444 AH), was a well known Arab philologist and grammarian of the Abbasid Caliphate.
Here, "similar" means that nasalization can be disregarded, and that the two central vowels /a, ɐ/ can be identified with each other.
Its English translation done by Professor Whitney is also available, and the same has been published in the Journal of the American Oriental Society.
⟨ɹ⟩ appeared at the same horizontal position as the other alveolars rather than slightly more back as did in the previous charts.
The field grew probably because almost a quarter of words in the Vedic texts composed in the 2nd-millennium BCE appear just once.
The surviving text is incomplete: the beginning of the first, part of the fourth, and the greater part of the fifth book are lost.
He is the first author to treat Egyptian Arabic as a dialect distinct from Classical Arabic, compiling an Egyptian Arabic word list, the Raf` al-'iṣr `an kalām 'ahl miṣr (i.e.
Published at that time more than ninety articles in newspapers and magazines since 1982 related to the Yemeni history and the Yemeni Art.
After graduating from the Chief Engineering School, he graduated from the General Staff Academy and did not have formal education in linguistics.
Lambert Bos was born at Workum in Friesland, where his father, Jakob Bos, was headmaster of the school.
A commentary, Super Porphyrium, printed by Cousin in 1836 among the Ouvrages inédits d'Abélard, and assigned both by that editor and by Haurau to Hrabantis Maurus, is now generally believed to be the work of a disciple.
Other Akhfashs Besides Al-Akhfash al-Aṣghar (“the Younger Akhfash”), there are at least two other famous scholars with the name Akhfash, distinguished by their epithets al-Akbar (“the Greater / Oldest”) and al-Awsāt (“the Middle”).
Vākyapadīya The Vākyapadīya, also known as Trikāṇḍī (three books), is an Indian linguistic treatise on the philosophy of language, grammar, and semantics.
According to the diary of Jakub Gieysztor, Akelaitis had no money and so he donated his mother's ring and watch for the demonstration.
The family was at the centre of Vienna's cultural life; Bruno Walter described the life at the Wittgensteins' palace as an "all-pervading atmosphere of humanity and culture".
In his final years at the Ministry of Education, Solomonick began to familiarize the Ulpan teachers with computers, laying the groundwork for the introduction of computer-aided learning as one of the mainstays of the Ulpans' activities.
99 Nelly Hanna, In Praise of Books: A Cultural History of Cairo's Middle Class, Sixteenth to the Eighteenth Century, Syracuse University Press (2003), ISBN 978-0-8156-3012-8, chapter 5.
The Treatise is important for the study of Old Norse, as it is a major text showing the state of the language just prior to the writing of the Icelandic Sagas.
His fame largely derives from his highly celebrated commentary on the Quran entitled Tafsir Ibn Atiyya.
लौकिक or classical) As per another legend, it is one of the eight forms of marriage where the bride's father receives a pair of kine from the groom.
In 1928, while serving as the director of the Syrian Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, al-Shihabi joined the National Bloc in opposition to the French Mandate for Syria and the Lebanon.
Al-Ẓāhirī was initially a follower of al-Shāfiʿī in matters of jurisprudence, later branching off in terms of his principles, likely due to the influence of Ibn Rāhwayh.
Hacker retired from Oxford in 2006, and was appointed to an emeritus research fellowship from 2006 to 2015, since when he has been an emeritus fellow.
These are clearly documents with stylistic ambitions." Few listeners would have understood them when they were read out at royal assemblies.
Overview Patañjali is one of the three most famous Sanskrit grammarians of ancient India, other two being Pāṇini and Kātyāyana who preceded Patañjali (dated to c.
The core of the text may date to the early eighth century, but much material was added between that date and the production of the earliest surviving copies from the end of the fourteenth century.
Ogham The Auraicept is one of the three main sources of the manuscript tradition about Ogham, the others being In Lebor Ogaim and De dúilib feda na forfed.
It is represented with two small circles at the right of a letter as ះ, and it should not be confused with the similar-looking yŭkôlpĭntŭ (យុគလពិន្ទុ; "pair of dots"), which indicates a short vowel followed by a glottal stop like their equivalent visarga marks in the Thai and Lao scripts.
See also Schools of Sanskrit grammar Pāṇini Tolkappiyam Vyakarana Sanskrit grammar Katantra Notes References Trautmann, Thomas R.
Katanov – letter from Boris Miller to Sergey Oldenburg "Miller in Talyshstan" – iarex.ru Talysh studies are in the "risk group" in the Republic of Azerbaijan
He distinguished himself in mathematics and philosophy, graduating as seventh Wrangler in the former in 1893 and becoming a Fellow in the latter in 1895.
Upon their return from India in 1890, the Lanmans built a home at 9 Farrar Street in Cambridge where he lived until his death.
His Padapāṭha of the Rigveda was one of the early attempts in the direction of linguistic analysis; he broke down the samhita text of the Rig Veda into words, identifying even the separate elements of compound words.
Jean-Luc Deuffic, "Un logicien renommé, proviseur de Sorbonne au XIVe siècle: Raoul le Breton de Ploudiry.
Institute of Language and Thought Meshchaninov was a follower of Nikolai Marr and succeeded him as head of the Soviet Institute of Language and Thought from 1935 to 1950.
After his illness in 1953, he entrusted her to continue his research in the field of the Talysh language, advised her and provided all possible assistance.
In the course of the 1970s, Russian theorists adopted the wider sense of "equivalence" as something resulting from linguistic transformations.
The book is based on Al-Nassir's doctoral dissertation (1985) at the University of York under the supervision of John Kelly.
His dissertation, directed by Walther Mayer, was titled Zwei Beiträge zur mehrdimensionalen Differentialgeometrie.
See also Pāṇini Sanskrit grammarians Bhaṭṭikāvya Bhaṭṭoji Dīkṣita References Aryendra Sharma, Kasika - a commentary on Pāṇini's grammar by Vamana and Jayaditya.
The earlier one was composed in 1332, when Philip VI announced his intention of going on Crusade in July.
The Katantra (Sanskrit: कातन्त्र; IAST: Kātantra) is a treatise on Sanskrit grammar (Vyakarana) attributed to Sharvavarman living at the time of the Satavahana dynasty.
Additionally, a related work that is extant and is more ancient than the 5th-century BCE Nirukta by Yaska, is the Nighantu which is a lexicographic treatise.
Abū Zayd Sa’īd ibn Aws al-Anṣārī (أبو زيد سعيد بن أوس الأنصاري; died 830 CE/215 AH) was an Arab linguist and a reputable narrator of hadith.
External links Excerpt from Ibn Khalawayh's Names of the Lion, translated by David Larsen, on Poets.org
His science of grammar led in turn, to the establishment of the first great School of grammarians at Basrah, that would be rivalled only by the school at Kufah.
His student al-Thaqafi seems to have had more prescriptive views while al-'Ala's were more descriptive.
According to Ryle, there are two types of descriptions: thin description: surface-level observations of behaviour, e.g.
Della Valle had originally given these manuscripts to a Franciscan named Tomasso Obicini to edit and publish.
Yang claimed that his family had moved south from the state of Jin during its civil infighting in the 6th century BCE.
His status was considered by many Muslim scholars to be of the highest rank in regard to biographical evaluation, and he is quoted in both Sahih Muslim and Sahih al-Bukhari, the two most significant collections for Sunni Muslims.
Sanskrit śvāśurá, Old High German swāgur "brother-in-law") The above example also displays the stressing of the thematic vowel when it already exists.
See also The king and the god References Bibliography Arntz, Helmut (ed.), Hirt, Hermann: Die Hauptprobleme der indogermanischen Sprachwissenschaft.
Notes References Further reading Anne Grondeux (2001), Le Graecismus d'Évrard de Béthune à travers ses gloses Anne Grondeux (2010), Glosa super Graecismum Eberhardi Bethuniensis Capitula I–III: de figuris coloribusque rhetoricis Friedrich Wilhelm Bautz (1975).
Abu Salma Hammad ibn Salamah ibn Dinar al-Basri (Arabic: حماد بن سلمة بن دينار البصري; died 167 AH/783 CE), the son of Salamah ibn Dinar, was a prominent narrator of hadith and one of the earliest grammarians of the Arabic language.
During martial law in Poland he was interned for refusing to sign an oath of loyalty which led to international protests.
One of the results of the linguistic turn was an increasing focus on logic and philosophy of language, and the cleavage between ideal language philosophy and ordinary language philosophy.
Early life The scholar Sheikh Ibn Hisham Al-Ansari was born in Cairo in Dhu al-Qadah, in the year of 708 AH, corresponding to the year 1309 CE.
The work was modeled after Kalinka's Galicya i Kraków pod panowaniem austryackiem (Galicia and Kraków under the Austrian Rule) about the Austrian Partition published in 1853.
See also Bible translation Language documentation Language revitalization References Further reading Zwartjes, Otto; Altman, Cristina, eds.
The Vedic literature from the 2nd millennium BCE has a very large collection of such words, with nearly 25% of the words therein being used just once.
For Foucault, knowledge itself is a form of power, and linguistic discourses delineate the invisible boundaries of social order.
"Provisional identification of languages in the Polyglotta Africana", Sierra Leone Language Review (1964), 3, pp.
Unlike Patanjali, Bhatrihari applies the term sphoṭa to each element of the utterance, varṇa (varṇasphoṭa; the letter or syllable), pada (padasphoṭa; the word), and vākya (vākyasphoṭa; the sentence).
El-Said Muhammad Badawi (Arabic: السعيد محمد بدوي, romanized: Al-Saʿīd Muḥammad Badawī; 1929 – March 16, 2014) was a scholar and linguist and author of many works, both in English and in Arabic, dealing with various aspects of the Arabic language.
Significance of the obelisk For Kircher, obelisks and their hieroglyphic inscriptions were the source of hermetic wisdom that was older than, but continuous with Christian revelation.
He was blind, and many students of knowledge studied under him, the most famous of whom were: Al-Hariri, Al-Khatib Al-Tabrizi, and the judge of Basra, Abu Al-Faraj Al-Basri.
The name Niftawayh, a combination of "nift", or asphalt – due to his dark complexion – and "wayh", was given to him out of his love of Sibawayh's works.
Some, such as Heinrich Keil, the 19th century editor of Marius Victorinus, believed that Victorinus published the work of an earlier writer Aphthonius, to which he added an introduction and an appendix on the metres of Horace.
Criticism In the post-war period, key tenets of logical positivism, including the verifiability criterion, analytic-synthetic distinction and observation-theory distinction, drew escalated criticism.
Ibn Khalawayh was a famous scholar during his lifetime, and assembled a circle of disciples in regular literary reunions.
Having learned the Qur'an by the age of ten in his village, El-Nakhas, Sharqiyya Governorate, he attended Al-Azhar University for his secondary schooling.
In recent years, advancements in deep learning and large language models have significantly enhanced the capabilities of natural language processing, leading to widespread applications in areas such as healthcare, customer service, and content generation.
In 1957, Noam Chomsky’s Syntactic Structures revolutionized Linguistics with 'universal grammar', a rule-based system of syntactic structures.
Structure Xu wrote the Shuowen Jiezi to analyze seal script characters that evolved slowly and organically throughout the mid-to-late Zhou dynasty in the state of Qin, and which were then standardized during the Qin dynasty and promulgated empire-wide.
He published A New Theory in Languages, a guide to Marrism, and later Verb and Parts of Speech and Phrase Elements.
Second, he substitutes the abstract laryngeal signs with their supposed phonetic values: *h1 = *ʔ (glottal stop), *h2 = *ʕ (voiced pharyngeal fricative), *h3 = *ʕʷ (pharyngeal fricative with lip rounding).
He was born in Sribhavan in 800 to Rashtrakuta King Govinda III during the king's return from his successful northern campaigns in Kanauj.
Additionally, he contributed to Arabic philology as well as lexicography, recording vocabulary and expressions of the Bedouin tribes which had not previously been recorded.
Brice, An Historical atlas of Islam, 1981, David Larsen, introduction to Ibn Khalawayh's Names of the Lion (Wave Books, 2017), vii-xiv.
After the war, Ayer briefly returned to the University of Oxford where he became a fellow and Dean of Wadham College.
Ibn 'Atiyya was, in fact, an extremely conscientious student who enjoyed reading and was eager to learn in order to become well-versed in all fields.
He was a celebrated, if not controversial, figure during his time, being referred to in Islamic historiographical texts as "the scholar of the era." Biography Early life and family Dāwūd al-Ẓāhirī's exact place of birth is not entirely clear to Muslim historians.
In 1940 she entered the Faculty of Philology of Saratov University, which she graduated from in 1945.
The most important part of it is that which deals with metres, based on the work of Caesius Bassus, the friend of Persius.
His origins were in al-Yaman, however his marriage to a daughter of al-Ḥafṣā al-Mughannī earned him the name ‘Ḥayyan al-Sūraḥī.’ Abū Sa’īd reports al-Sarrāj and Abū ‘Ali al-Ṣaffār that al-Mubarrad was born in 825-26 (210 AH)and died in 898-99 (285 AH), aged seventy-nine.
The eldest son of Vararuci of Kerala legend is known as Mezhathol Agnihothri and he is supposed to have lived between 343 and 378 CE.
The latter may be viewed as a case of summary scanning, since the element of sequence in the process is lacking.
External links Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum: complete texts and full bibliography Text of Aphthonius in the Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum.
The number of Slovene equivalents in this edition is notably higher; they often reflect Carinthian Slovene.
by the historian Ibn al-Tiqtaqa (1262-1310); (1895) Oumâra du Yémen, sa vie et son œuvre; biography and works of the Yemeni poet ʻUmārah ibn ʻAlī al-Ḥakamī (1121-1174); (Paris, ed., Ernest Leroux, 1897) References External links Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
But also foreign words like the French wattman, in French stemming from watt and man, were claimed to be of Turkish origin by a Turkish scholar.
The main reason for the conflict comes down to the Yin Wenzi's core texts being lost for several centuries and chapters seemingly being added, contradicting the Book of Han listing it as having one chapter.
As was common at the time due to the enduring Tower of Babel myth, Hensel attempted to derive all languages from a common origin in Hebrew, following A philosophicall essay for the reunion of the languages, or, the art of knowing all by the mastery of one (1675) by Pierre Besnier (1648–1705).
Donatus auctus was added some time around 1426–37, between the first and second redactions of the De scriptoribus illustribus latinae linguae ["On Famous Writers of the Latin Language"] of Sicco Polenton, and it became the standard account of Virgil's life up until the 18th century.
After the vowels ই or উ and before velar or labial stops, the bisarga may appear as ষ, producing forms such as নিষ্কাম.
His full name was Dakṣiputra Panini according to verses 1.75.13 and 3.251.12 of Patanjali's Mahabhashya Mahābhāṣya, with the first part suggesting his mother's name was Dakṣi.
Three months after Wittgenstein's arrival Russell told Morrell:I love him & feel he will solve the problems I am too old to solve ...
At the time, nobody was aware of the connection between Domitian and the obelisk, and it was known as the 'Pamphilj obelisk' after the Pope's family name.
Significance The significance of Clajus's Grammatica Germanicae Linguae lies in its role as one of the earliest and most thorough descriptions of the German language.
He studied physics at the University of Heidelberg, the University of Lausanne, and, ultimately, the University of Berlin under Max Planck.
Style of the charters The standard of Latin prose improved in the tenth century, especially after about 960, when the leaders of the Benedictine reform movement adopted the elaborate and ornate style of Latin now called by historians the hermeneutic style.
In the preface to the first volume he regrets that, except for Alfred's translations, Englishmen had no means of learning the true doctrine as expounded by the Church Fathers of the Latin Church.
Abū Manṣūr Mauhūb al-Jawālīqī (Arabic: أبو منصور الجواليقي) (April 1074–17 July 1144) was an Arab grammarian born in Baghdād, where he studied philology under Khātib al-Tibrizī (1030 – 1109) and became famous for his handwriting.
Antimachus of Colophon (Greek: Ἀντίμαχος ὁ Κολοφώνιος), or of Claros, was a Greek poet and grammarian, who flourished about 400 BC.
Their proems consist of long convoluted sentences, parading an ostentatious display of Greek and glossary-based vocabulary and containing numerous unmistakable verbal reminiscences of Aldhelm's writings.
He is also considered the first person who explained gravity of Earth in a way similar to magnetic field behavior.
The Aindra(of Indra) school of Sanskrit grammar is allegedly one of the ancient schools of Sanskrit grammar.
Seeing this difficulty, there was a need to invent such a method in which all sutras necessary for the achievement of a particular experiment are available at one place.
The original matter contributed by Ibn Parḥon includes, in addition to the notes mentioned above, many interpretations of single Biblical passages, and numerous explanations of Biblical words by means of Neo-Hebraic and Aramaic.
Rutherford (1881); Lobeck devotes his attention chiefly to the later, Rutherford to the earlier usages noticed by Phrynichus.
In Foundations and "The Thought", Frege argues for Platonism against psychologism or formalism, concerning numbers and propositions respectively.
Ḱerd angʰetai widontbʰjos: ǵʰm̥on, potis, wl̥nam owijōm kʷr̥neti soi gʷʰermom westrom; owibʰjos kʷe wl̥nā ne esti’.
Saʿd and a group of fellow Persians had converted to Islam and become protégés of Qudāmah ibn Maẓ'ūn.
Ali laid down the principle of the three parts of speech; the noun, the verb and the particle and told him to write a treatise on it.
Gongsun ran a school and received patronage from rulers, advocating peaceful means of resolving disputes amid the martial culture of the Warring States period.
Plato's concern with the sophists' usage was that their words and phrases gave misleading impressions about reality and that, as highly revered intellectuals, the sophists should have utilized the most fitting descriptive words possible.
Moscow, 1926) Таты и их расселение и говоры: материалы и вопросы (Tats and their resettlement and dialects: materials and questions.
In 1850 he was appointed member of the Caucasus Department of the Russian Geographical Society and ordered to compile the history of the Caucasus region.
It then went on to discuss the Syriac inscriptions on the Xi'an Stele, although Kircher could not read Chinese.
A preface of this work, written during the twelfth century CE by Ilampuranar describes the work as aindiram nirainda Tolkappiyam[incorrect quote]('comprising Aindra').
Al-Nadim describes the voluminous work, reputedly the collaboration of forty-two grammarians, as "unequaled before his time and unrivaled afterwards".
Karl Lachmann based his critical edition of 1831 on manuscripts dating from the 4th century and earlier, to argue that the Textus Receptus must be corrected according to these earlier texts.
Ek'wōses ewᵇwekʷont: kl'udhi, owei!, k'ērd aghnutai widontmos: gh'ᵇmo, potis, wᵇlənām owjôm kʷr̥neuti sebhoi ghʷermom westrom; owimos-kʷe wᵇlənā ne esti.
Much social, geographical and historical information has been thus inferred from a close reading of Pāṇini's grammar.
Aindra, Katantra schools and the Tolkappiyam Burnell's search for the Aindra school took him to Southern India where he came across the Tamil grammatical work Tolkappiyam.
Baron Pyotr Karlovich Uslar (Russian: Пётр Карлович Услар, IPA: [ˈpʲɵtr kərɫəvʲɪt͡ɕ ʊsɫər]), known by his German name Peter von Uslar (1 September [O.S.
His habilitation thesis at the University of Rostock, Das Wesen der Wahrheit nach der modernen Logik (The Nature of Truth According to Modern Logic), was published in 1910.
Endings The basic scheme of suffixation is given in the table below and applies to many nouns and adjectives.
His grammatical opinions were eclectic, in between the major opposition between the grammatical schools of Basra and Kufa.
Modern usage, however, does not always imply this and may be demonstrated in the following examples: Retranslations occurring simultaneously or near-simultaneously so that it is difficult to determine the first from succeeding translations.
The two sides of the debate may be called the Nairuktas (based on Yāska's Nirukta, atomists), vs the Vaiyākarans (grammarians following Pāṇini, holists), and the debate continued in various forms for twelve centuries involving different philosophers from the Nyaya, Mimamsa and Buddhist schools.
Artemon (Ancient Greek: Ἀρτέμων) of Cassandreia was an ancient Macedonian grammarian, who seems to have lived after 316 BCE.
Sin Sukchu (Korean: 신숙주; Hanja: 申叔舟; August 2, 1417 – July 23, 1475) was a Korean politician during the Joseon period.
Vyākaraṇa scholarship has dealt with linguistic analysis to establish the exact form of words to properly express ideas, and Nirukta scholarship has focused on linguistic analysis to help establish the proper meaning of the words in context.
The first large scale NMT was launched by Baidu in 2015, followed by Google Neural Machine Translation (GNMT) in 2016.
It was published in Rome by the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith and dedicated to the Prefect of the Congregation, Cardinal Francesco Barberini.
The grammatical system based on this text, called Sārasvatavyākaraṇa, was popular due to its brevity and relative simplicity, especially among Jains.
The letters of the Sanskrit alphabet were further organized by the Vedic scholars into a magic square, making symmetrical and resonant alternate readings of the letters possible, such as top to bottom in addition to left to right.
In the Bhagavad Gita Sloka XVII.22, it is seen that the word अदेशकाले (ādeśkāle) with the dropping of a mātra i.e.
After the fall of Northern Qi, Zhitui became an official of the Northern Zhou, and moved his family to Guanzhong.
Mendelsohn, The Philosophy of Gottlob Frege, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005: "Appendix A.
This second edition also contains example phrases in German and Slovene, illustrating the use of the entries given.
His first article was published in Kronika Wiadomości Krajowych i Zagranicznych in 1856, and signed as "Chłop z Mariampola" (lit.
He is cited in Martyrs Mirror and Foxe's Book of Martyrs in relation to the etymology of the movement's name.
Succeeding his father, he was appointed to the Naqib office, acting as the head of the Alids in the area.
In approving sense, it is used to show that the meaning of the word is so important that the speaker's (or writer's) grammatical mistake (or conscious deviation from grammar) does not matter.
Its full title reads: Synopsis universae philologiae: in qua: miranda unitas et harmonia linguarum totius orbis terrarum occulta, e literarum, syllabarum, vocumque natura & recessibus eruitur.
Vararuci's name appears in a verse listing the 'nine gems' (navaratnas) in the court of one Vikramaditya.
Nomine et verbo was published by Johann Sichard at Basel in 1528 and subsequently, in a much more complete form, in the collection of Helias van Putschen, who had access to manuscripts that he used to rectify many deficiencies, large and small.
in his Kitāb al-Fihrist Al-Nadīm reports a written account by Abū al-Fatḥ ibn al-Naḥwī that Ibn Duraid examined the manuscript of Kitāb al-'Ayn at Baṣrah in 248H/ 862CE.
However, Nighantu is not a dictionary, a genre of texts that developed in later centuries and was called a Kosha in Sanskrit.
In 1988, a year before his death, Ayer wrote an article titled "What I saw when I was dead", describing an unusual near-death experience after his heart stopped for four minutes as he choked on smoked salmon.
Philology came to be divided into three branches: exegesis (訓詁; xùngǔ), grammatology (文字; wénzì) and phonology (音韻; yīnyùn).
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
See also al-Akhfash al-Akbar (the Oldest) al-Akhfash al-Aṣghar (the Younger) Akhfash's goat == References ==
Eesti murded III (1970) Tartumaa saja-aastaste jutud (1995) Võru keel (1997) Johannes Gutslaffi grammatika eesti keel ja Urvaste murrak (1998, in the book: J.
Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum: complete texts and full bibliography Bibliography of Diomedes in the Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum blog
Twelve of the twenty grammarians described by Suetonius in De Illustribus Grammaticis had been slaves.
He had visited a number of times and found the collector friendly, but wary; fearful of the Clan of Hamdan [of Aleppo].
Some schools, such as Carvaka, state that this is never possible, and therefore Sabda is not a proper pramana.
Amerias (Greek: Ἀμερίας, 3rd century BC) was an ancient Macedonian lexicographer, known for his compilation of a glossary titled Glossai (Γλῶσσαι, terms or words).
She held several positions at the university following graduation, including senior lecturer at the Department of Slavic-Russian Linguistics.
But this characterisation of noun / verb is inadequate, as some processes may also have nominal forms.
(without citations) 7 vols, Saint Petersburg, 1879–1889), which with the assistance of his two friends, Rudolf Roth (d.
The gaṇapāṭha listing has these variants, not the forms in pausa, and thus has twenty-two items in all.
He attended the lessons of Taj al-Din al-Tabrizi and read to Taj al-Din al-Fakahani his explanation of the sign, except for the last page.
He served as a personal linguistic expert to King Sejong, and was intimately involved in the creation and application of the Korean alphabet known in modern times as Hangul.
In a citation from the book called Device of the Men of Letters, al-Hakimi wrote that Abū ‘Abd Allah Muhammad ibn al-Qāsim called Al-Mubarrad a "Sūraḥūn", of al-Baṣrah.
The few manuscripts of the pratisakhyas that have survived into the modern era are likely from the 500 to 150 BCE period.
Since 1935 professor and since 1939 doctor of sciences in philology at the Moscow Institute of Oriental Studies and researcher at the Institute of Linguistics of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR.
History William of Conches, Peter Helias, and Ralph of Beauvais, also referred to as speculative grammarians predate the Modist movement proper.
Within the genre, ordinary speech stress is often distorted in the first line, and may be regarded as a feature of the form: "There was a young man from the coast"; "There once was a girl from Detroit..." Legman takes this as a convention whereby prosody is violated simultaneously with propriety.
Running while Black is a sardonic description of racial profiling experienced by Black runners in the United States and Canada.
Most scientists do not think there are places that would not be significantly negatively impacted by climate change.
How to play The words are found in all directions — vertically, horizontally, diagonally and backwards.
It implies that a motorist may be stopped by a police officer largely because of racial bias rather than any apparent violation of traffic law.
Discerning the various layers of meanings would be a challenge to the reader, who has to focus on and keep turning over the passage in his mind, applying his erudition and imagination to perceive alternative meanings.
An example is Georgian baq'aq'i ts'q'alshi q'iq'inebs ("a frog croaks in the water"), in which q' is a uvular ejective.
In July 2020, Norwegian news site Dagens Næringsliv reported that the game had made Bertheussen a multimillionaire.
Vittoria is a love interest for Langdon in the novel while there is no attraction present in the film.
For instance in astronomical terminology a distinction may be drawn between a moon, any natural satellite, and the Moon, the natural satellite of Earth.
Two Pig Latin words that have entered mainstream American English are "ixnay" or "icksnay", the Pig Latin version of "nix" (itself a borrowing of German nichts), which is used as a general negative; and "amscray", Pig Latin for "scram", meaning "go away" or "get out of here".
ngware becomes rengwa) See also Costermonger (British street vendors from whom back slang originates) Pig Latin References External links Victorian Web Article John Burkardt's list of back slang words at Florida State University
SIMILARLY: the 1st, 4th, and 7th letters make SIR, the 2nd, 5th, and 8th letters make ILL, and the 3rd, 6th, and 9th letters make MAY.
References Heli Harrikari: A Constraint-based Approach to Finnish CV Spoonerisms External links List of Finnish spoonerisms
By 2024, some real estate listings promote climate scores that estimate the level of climate risk exposure to a property.
Forms As in the wit of Dorothy Parker's set, the Algonquin Round Table, witty remarks may be intentionally cruel (as also in many epigrams), and perhaps more ingenious than funny.
All versions allow players to resign their turn with the "resign" feature, pass their turn with the "pass" feature, swap out one or more tiles and forfeit the current turn with the "swap" feature, or look up what tiles remain with the "tile bag" feature.
Theoretically, a very long word could use every fourth letter to make four smaller words; e.g., «partitioned» is an alternade for «pin», «ate», «rid», and «to».
The 1980s Canadian gameshow Bumper Stumpers required contestants to decode gramograms presented as fictional vanity licence plates.
Also included are chapters on word-level phenomena, such as sentence palindromes, and wordplay involving arithmetic and geometric progressions.
After playing the last tile, the opposing player will lose all the points equal to the amount of the remaining tiles.
Moore’s “proof” is essentially an attempt to assert the truth of the sentence ‘Here is one hand’ as a paradigm case of genuine knowledge.
Certain letters do not appear in either of the two autograms above, which are therefore not pangrams.
ABOMINATE: the 1st, 4th, and 7th letters make AMA, the 2nd, 5th, and 8th letters make BIT, and the 3rd, 6th, and 9th letters make ONE.
It may be related to Old French boul "fraud, deceit, trickery", Icelandic bull "nonsense", Middle English bull "falsehood", or the verb bull "befool, mock, cheat".
"Trope Theory and the Unsustainable Lightness of Being", in Philosophical Semantics: Reintegrating Theoretical Philosophy, Newcastle upon Tyne: Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
The app was launched on 12 July 2025, and in it players must guess Venezuelan colloquial words and phrases.
Tolkien interpreted his own surname as derived from the Low German equivalent of dull-keen (High German toll-kühn) which would be a literal equivalent of Greek oxy-moron.
Sophocles, Oedipus st:370 Italian Aristotele, ancora adolescente, aveva avuto accesso all’associazione accademica.
In an article for Reader's Digest, Chloë Nannestad described Quiddler as "the best 2-player card game around" for those who enjoy word games.
For example, (2 + 3) × 4 = 20 forces addition to precede multiplication, while (3 + 5)2 = 64 forces addition to precede exponentiation.
Although Gumuțeasca has been spoken for more than 100 years and it has been passed from generation to generation, today only a few people continue to speak it.
On February 10, Wordle officially moved to The New York Times website, with player statistics carried over.
See also Controlled natural language One-letter word Oulipo Storytelling game Infinite canvas, a movement in comics in a sense opposite to that of constrained comics References Further reading Baetens, Jan.
References External links The Fumblerules of Grammar by William Safire Fumblerules entry on the alt.usage.english FAQ Hacker writing style section of JARGON FILE, VERSION 4.3.3, 20 SEP 2002
The player who has played the last card on the stack once the pickle round ends "wins" the stack and places it next to themself.
Dennis Ritchie, creator of the C language, said of the precedence in C (shared by programming languages that borrow those rules from C, for example, C++, Perl and PHP) that it would have been preferable to move the bitwise operators above the comparison operators.
Example games Two example games could be played as follows: In Example 1, it can be noted that the phrase "AT" does not end the game; this is because words only become valid once they are at least three letters long.
The emergence of insulated glazing and glass-manufacturing companies also caused the people of Mărgău to lose customers.
Similarly, 안녕 (annyeong) in Korean and שלום (shalom) in Hebrew can mean both "hello" and "goodbye" but the central meaning is "peace".
Players compete by racing to create the most coherent or humorous sentence that fits the acronym - in essence, a backronym.
Latin alphabet Near the beginning of the Christian era, the Latin alphabet had already undergone its principal changes, and had become a definite system.
Variations In German the game is known as Ja-Nein-Schwarz-Weiß ("yes-no-black-white") and in Hungarian as fekete-fehér, igen-nem ("black-white, yes-no").
The Australian television show Spicks and Specks had a contest called "Turning Japanese" which used RTT on song lyrics.
Players guess words, and any word that appears in the article is revealed, slowly allowing the player to piece together the topic.
The play modes include Solitaire (both long and shorts games), Banana Café, Live Games, and Challenges.
Uses in ciphers A ten-letter heterogram can be used as the key to a substitution cipher for numbers, with the heterogram encoding the string 1234567890 or 0123456789.
But, if he said simply, “Beast!” that would be hypocatastasis, for the other part of the simile or metaphor (“you”), would be implied and not stated.
The most popular variant of the game is known as chengyu jielong (成語接龍), which involves four character idioms instead.
Ross Eckler Jr., a statistician at Bell Labs, became editor until 2006, when he was succeeded by Jeremiah Farrell (Butler University).
In the book's closing scenes, a Swiss Guard hands Langdon the fifth brand, the Illuminati diamond, as a gift.
Among the lowercase letters "l" is unique since its symmetry is broken if it is close to a reference character which establishes a clear x-height.
Augustine's well-known abecedarian psalm against the Donatists is the earliest known example of medieval rhythmical verse.
Take away the verbs and the language speaks for itself." Thaler went so far as to organize a well-attended, tongue-in-cheek funeral for the verb, at the Sorbonne in Paris.
If the player manages to construct the magic word at the top of the screen, the well will be cleared of all tiles and the player will receive a large bonus.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
The player ends their turn by discarding one card from their hand so that the player ends up with the same number of cards as were dealt.
In popular culture The mnemonic sentence "Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain", mentioned above, also appears in the 2003 novel Artemis Fowl and the Eternity Code, third book of the Artemis Fowl series.
The Greek compound word ὀξύμωρον oksýmōron, which would correspond to the Latin formation, does not appear in any Ancient Greek works prior to the formation of the Latin term.
Special Alias On the flip side of the New Alias board is the Special Alias version of the board game: the rules are otherwise the same as in New Alias, but the game has different classes: The world around us, Sports and exercise, Entertainment and culture, and Sayings and quotes.
In ambigram calligraphy, each letter acts as an illustration, each letter is created with attention to detail and has a unique role within a composition.
Kalodont or kaladont is a South Slavic word game, popular in Croatia, Montenegro, Serbia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and North Macedonia, in which players in turn say words, each beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
Šatrovački was initially developed by Roma and various marginal subcultures and criminal groups in Yugoslavia, who employed it as a device of secret communication.
An inverted speech form similar to Totoiana also exists in the French language and is known as verlan (from l'envers, "the inverse", but inverted).
2020s Revival In 2021, Tutnese gained traction on social media platforms including Discord, Google Classroom and TikTok.
Espy Jeremiah Farrell Martin Gardner Mike Keith Douglas Hofstadter Lila Maria de Coninck See also Constrained writing List of forms of word play Oulipo Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics References Bibliography Books Bergerson, Howard W.
Origin The idea that one can construct a grammatically correct sentence consisting of nothing but repetitions of "buffalo" was independently discovered several times in the 20th century.
Use in the United Kingdom In 2009, the Conservative Party leader David Cameron used the trope with a German accent whilst criticising the idea of ID cards in the United Kingdom by asking a Q&A session "Where are your papers?".
However, their existence is said to be threatened by "river crabs" which are invading their habitat.
In 2005, a complete rosarigasino version of Cervantes' novel Don Quixote de la Mancha was published, entitled Don Quijogasote de la Magasancha and translated by Bernardo "Chiquito" Reyes.
This version lacks the image of a hanged man, instead relying on keeping score as to the number of attempts it took each player to fill in the blanks.
A Void, the English translation of another, considerably later, French novel, having the 'no e' restriction in both languages.
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
Cathy Duffy Reviews described the game as a simple activity that reinforces spelling and vocabulary skills.
"Single-Snaps" are linear combinations of letters that form one word, while "Multi-Snaps" are combinations that form two or more words.
Each player picks and writes down a secret word and attempts to guess the other's word first during their turn.
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
Eventually no boycott was declared and the Vatican stayed officially silent about the film, unlike its condemnation of The Da Vinci Code.
The graph of the complete word contains a subgraph which is a subdivision of the non-planar graph K3,3, and as such is itself non-planar.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
infinitive for verbs, nominative for nouns, etc.) may not be made-up or a proper name, and no previous word may be repeated.
Businesses Gag names can also be applied to businesses, such as Howard Stern's use of the fictitious "Sofa King": in a hoax advertisement, the store was described as being "Sofa King great" (i.e.
Since then the term has mostly been confined to analysis of Biblical rhetoric, and it has never migrated to general public usage.
Shepard Smith, on his evening news program The FOX Report with Shepard Smith on July 10, 2012, described London officials' quoted "overall strategery" in placing anti-aircraft missiles on apartment buildings during the London Olympics.
A perfect pangram is an example of a heterogram, with the added restriction that it uses all the letters of the alphabet.
Anomia Press released multiple expansions of Anomia, including Anomia Party Edition in 2013, Anomia X and Anomia Kids in 2017, Anomia 2.0 in 2021, and Anomia Pop Culture in 2022, each of which added new categories to the game.
In January 2018, bus passengers allege that Border Patrol agents boarded a Greyhound bus in Florida and demanded U.S.
If you guess PEACH and the secret word is PHIAL, the response would be 1 – the P is an exact match, but the A and the H are not.
Dabble is an anagram word game designed by George Weiss, who was 84 years old at the time, and published by INI, LLC in 2011.
Most editions of the game use game board to keep track of points, with each team moving their Scoring Peg on the point track after each of their turns.
History In the Renaissance, several artists tried to establish a sequence of up to seven primary colors from which all other colors could be mixed.
Historic rhymes One example of a historic rhyme (i.e., one that was a true rhyme but is now an eye rhyme) is the following: The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
Alternatively, objects can be named in any alphabetical order, but without repeating an earlier starting letter.
With some mental effort however, they can be dissolved in such a way that a rational person can justifiably ignore them.
The nominal value or minimum sale price for an item can be listed on a tag for the salesperson's reference while being visible but meaningless to the customer.
Expressed more abstractly, the individual colour-instances (the green of a leaf, the similar green of a frog) all partake in the same idea of green.
Lexiko was played with a set of 100 square cardboard tiles, with the same letter distribution later used by Scrabble (see Scrabble letter distributions), but no board.
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
There are other examples of vowelless sentences in Czech and Slovak, such as prd krt skrz drn, zprv zhlt hrst zrn, meaning 'a mole farted through grass, having swallowed a handful of grains'.
See also Alliteration Announcer's test Barbara's Rhubarb Bar Malapropism Spoonerism Theophilus Thistle References External links Interview with MIT researcher Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel
Psychologist Carl Jung wrote in his 1960 book Synchronicity that there was a "sometimes quite grotesque coincidence between a man's name and his peculiarities".
In 1968, Jack Webb guested on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson and took part in a parody of Dragnet.
For example: [ ( 1 + 2 ) ÷ ( 3 + 4 ) ] + 5 = ( 3 ÷ 7 ) + 5 {\displaystyle {\bigl [}(1+2)\div (3+4){\bigr ]}+5=(3\div 7)+5} Special cases Unary minus sign There are differing conventions concerning the unary operation '−' (usually pronounced "minus").
The object of the game is to form horizontal and vertical words by placing letter blocks in crossword fashion on your side of the frame while blocking the formation of words on the opposite side.
The playing space is a dark blue vertical frame, held upright by two detachable black feet, with 11 x 11 square holes with 75 wooden block lettered playing pieces available to place within that frame.
Radio Episodes of Car Talk followed their actual staff credits with a much longer list of pun-based fictional ones, varying from episode to episode but usually concluding with an "Erasmus B.
"Your papers, please" (or "papers, please") is an expression or trope associated with police state functionaries demanding identification from civilians during random stops or at checkpoints.
Derivation The addition of the t results in consonant clusters that do not occur in Ikwerre or other local languages.
It maintained this meaning in Spanish nimio, but it was also misinterpreted as "insignificant, without importance".
(سلام و علیکو ائ یار قدیمی) Bgofto dokhtarak bose' va me de (بگفتو دخترک یگ بوسئ وه مه ده) maga kuri ke bābāyom nadidi?
Reception Cryptmaster received "generally favorable reviews" according to review aggregator website Metacritic, scoring a 77/100 on the site.
You can trap the next player directly or help the next player by playing a word that allows them to trap the next player.
Any number of words in the answer is allowed as long as the first word starts with the correct letter.
The total number of letters is eight on Wednesdays and Thursdays, nine on Fridays and ten on Saturdays, and answers must be at least four letters long on those days.
Nofon èfe fafacifilefe, afanchefe peferchèfe vafa defettofo ifil pifiùfu vefelofocefe pofossifibifilefe Its translation in Italian is: Questo è un esempio di frase in alfabeto farfallino.
For example Psalm 9 and Psalm 10 appear to constitute a single acrostic psalm, but the length assigned to each letter is unequal, five of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet are not represented and the sequence of two letters is reversed.
George Berkeley, for example, argued against universals or Abstract objects using nominalistic arguments.
This is similar to the traditional Chinese practice of representing sounds by two characters known as fanqie.
Over the years, many different versions of the board game have appeared: As well as the New Alias, the Alias family currently also includes the Junior Alias for children, the Alias travel game, and as the newest introduction, DVD Alias.
It also supplies users with information on how to handle a traffic stop, including their legal rights and "best practices" for "how to be safe".
See also The New York Times Games – Casual games by The New York Times References External links Spelling Bee – Official site Glossary of Spelling Bee Terms - Official New York Times guide to Spelling Bee and definition of terms
Towards the 8th century of Rome, the letters assumed their artistic forms and lost their older, narrower ones.
[Italics in original] Bullinger gives the following example: one may say to another, “You are like a beast.” This would be simile, tamely stating a fact.
History Kangaroo words were originally popularized as a word game by Ben O'Dell in an article for The American Magazine, volume 151, during the 1950s, later reprinted in Reader's Digest.
The version of the game in which countries, cities, states, rivers, lakes, or capitals are used is called geography, and a generalized version with place names is called atlas.
Definitions In the 12th century, Rashid al-Din Vatvat defined īhām as follows: "Īhām in Persian means to create doubt.
The phrase was popularized as the first line in the classic 1942 movie Casablanca which depicted life in Vichy-controlled Casablanca during World War II.
Horizontal axis When the reflecting surface is horizontal (like a mirroring lake for example), the calligraphic design is a horizontal axis mirror ambigram.
In the 1993 video game Kirby's Adventure, the initial letters of the names of each of the seven worlds spell "ROYGBIV" backwards.
Words for transcendent ideas in the Platonic sense are often capitalized, especially when used in a religious context.
Though not palindromic in the mathematical sense, they read frontward and backward like real ambigrams.
Bilingual homophonous poetry, where the poem makes sense in two different languages at the same time, constituting two simultaneous homophonous poems.
Also there is another type of šatrovački, where the words are reconstructed by addition of letter P followed by the vowel preceding the inserted P after each syllable.
Unusually, Williams has a separate contest for each semester, and thus its 84th game took place in May 2008.
Borgmann has since been referred to as the "Father of Logology" and his book is credited with ushering in a "golden age of wordplay".
Cassius Caecinianus, which has the following inscription: AX, BV, CT, DS, ER, FQ, GP, HO, IN, LM Jerome explained this similarity.
Visual communication Because they are visual puns, ambigrams generally attract attention, and thus can be used in visual communication to broadcast a marketing or political message.
Dumb crambo Cryptic crossword, for a type of clue based on this game Pictionary, a game inspired by charades where players draw words or phrases Concept Notes References Baynes, T.
According to this theory, it is tropes — including both individual qualities and events — that serve as the truthmakers for true atomic sentences such as "John is hot" or "Mary is loved by John" or "John kicked Bill".
My eyes have grown dim over books; believing in geological periods, cave dwellers, Chinese Dynasties, and the fixed stars has prematurely aged me.
Pressing a button starts a loud ticking and, after a random time interval, the sound of an explosion.
In each turn, they guess a five-letter word; once the player finishes, each letter is colored based on how accurate the player's guess is.
A quip is an observation or saying that has some wit but perhaps descends into sarcasm, or otherwise is short of a point.
Publication history Outburst was originally created in 1986 by Brian Hersch and published by his Los Angeles game company Hersch and Company.
The game has been compared with Scrabble and Boggle; in WordZap, players race to make proper English words to fill their rack of words, but when one player makes a word already found by the other player, the word is "zapped" from both players' racks.
In English Philosophical, religious, and political terms A particular example of where capitonyms are prominent is in terminology relating to philosophy, religion, and politics.
An interlingual homograph is a word that occurs in more than one written language, but which has a different meaning or pronunciation in each language.
These expressions, such as "holy cow" and "kick the bucket" carry meanings and cultural implications that only a native speaker would understand.
Eight The number 8 (八, pinyin: bā; Cantonese Yale: baat) sounds like "發" (pinyin: fā; Cantonese Yale: faat; lit.
The player whose turn it is may — instead of adding a letter — challenge the previous player to prove that the current fragment is actually the beginning of a word.
Together with introducing syllabo-accentual metres, masculine rhymes began to occur in Polish poetry.
One can voluntarily jump back and forth between the rival readings usually by shifting one's physical point of view (moving the design in some way) but sometimes by simply altering one's perceptual bias towards a design (clicking an internal mental switch, so to speak).
Schwartz, the CEO of Sun Microsystems, sent an email to Sun employees on the completion of the acquisition of Sun by Oracle Corporation.
It is often used as an example of such a phrase when learning Czech or Slovak as a foreign language.
Espy discovered Word Ways in 1972, and eventually used material from several dozen articles in his Almanac of Words at Play anthologies.
Rosarigasino (also known as Gasó) is a language game (in the form of a rhyming slang) traditionally associated with the city of Rosario, province of Santa Fe, Argentina, even though very few people, if any, currently employ it.
Of note is a 2003 study by Darryl Francis which investigated Borgmann's assertion that the name "Torpenhow Hill" is a quadruple etymological tautology.
Legman dismissed the "clean" limerick as a "periodic fad and object of magazine contests, rarely rising above mediocrity".
Based on the principle of Scrabble, it allows players to play games with up to 30 friends and random opponents simultaneously.
An example of phono-semantic rhyming slang is the Cockney sorrowful tale 'jail', in which case the person coining the slang term sees a semantic link, sometimes jocular, between the Cockney expression and its referent.
The term sobriquet is equally applicable as a name for a person, group of people, historical event, or place.
1, contains the passage,"Get the Maids to Crambo in an Evening, and learn the knack of Rhyming." Etymology The name comes from the Latin crambe and Greek κράμβη krámbē, meaning "cabbage" (as in crambe repetita (Juvenal, satire 7, 154), literally meaning "re-stewed cabbage").
The OUI–NON ambigram is installed on the Place du Rhône, in Geneva, Switzerland, at the top of a metal pole.
The Hungarian station Class FM uses a variation of the game in their morning zoo program Morning Show.
Applications of this "art of ambiguity" or "amphibology" include texts that can be read as descriptions of earthly or divine love.
It is similar to Antakshari, the Sistanian Baas-o-Beyt, the Malayalam Aksharaslokam and, more generally, the British Crambo.
In Spanish dar (basic meaning "to give"), when applied to lessons or subjects, can mean "to teach", "to take classes" or "to recite", depending on the context.
Wordplay The surname is noted for its humorous spelling, leading to it often being misprounced as "Cock-burn," sometimes intentionally for humour.
Jackbox Games has produced multiple editions of Fibbage, a game in which the players use their mobile devices to choose categories, write fake answers, and vote for the real answers.
Reviews Currently endorsed by Oxford University's Bodleian Library and the British Library (London), which both receive a royalty for each game sold, Ex Libris has been described as "fantastically tricky" and "boring-sounding (but actually extremely entertaining)".
In traditional Chinese history and other Chinese dialect groups like the Teochew people, the number 4 is considered a very lucky and auspicious number.
Million Dollar Password CBS picked up a new version of the show entitled Million Dollar Password, hosted by Regis Philbin, which premiered on June 1, 2008, and ran for 12 episodes over two seasons.
In this case, the letters are inscribed in the Lombardic script of the 1260s and the complete structure would probably have stood near the high altar .
Some rounds may have a specific topic that the answers should fit, although enforcement of the topic depends on solely on the other players' willingness to vote for off-topic answers.
In an alternative variation, the first player describes the minister's cat with an adjective beginning with the letter 'A', the second with the letter 'B' and so forth, going around the circle.
{\displaystyle (1+2)\times 3=3\times 3=9.} Exponentiation before multiplication, multiplication before subtraction: 1 − 2 × 3 4 = 1 − 2 × 81 = 1 − 162 = − 161.
The winner is the player who posed the word with the difficult ending; he gets to start the next round.
An instantiated universal is a property (such as being green) that can exist in multiple locations at the same time.
If a wild card with two symbols is flipped, the card is placed next to the draw pile and those two symbols are considered to match until another wild card is flipped and replaces it.
WordBrain is a word game acquired by Swedish game developer MAG Interactive and released through them on July 19, 2015 for iOS, Android and Windows phone platforms.
Recognition Wonderword has done puzzles that have caught the attention of Boeing, Swarovski and Bill O'Reilly among others.
The "father" of the Irish bull is often said to be Sir Boyle Roche, who once asked "Why should we put ourselves out of our way to do anything for posterity, for what has posterity ever done for us?".
He noted that, although the most popular games were of the first two (e.g., chess and backgammon), the best letter game readily available was Anagrams.
In BreakAway, the player is given a 4x4x4 cube of letters and must find word combinations to remove letters.
When a player has accumulated 100 penalty points over any number of rounds, they are eliminated from the game, and the last player remaining is the winner.
Both entries cite Katalin Lázár's ethnographical work Népi Játékgyűjtemény ("Folk Game Collection").
The game antakshari (ant means end, akshar means letter), played in India, Pakistan and Nepal also involves chaining, but with verses of movie songs (usually Bollywood songs).
Thackeray's scenes—even those said to be "in pantomime"—included dialogue from the actors but truly "dumb" or "mime charades" gradually became more popular as well and similarly dropped their descriptive adjectives.
Designed for two to four players, the game has one participant select a secret word each round, which the others attempt to guess following Wordle's standard rules.
Notable players Samuel Pepys recorded playing in his diary entry of Saturday 19 May 1660: "From thence to the Hague again playing at crambo in the waggon, Mr.
Points are earned by making "Snaps" - valid combinations of letters that form a word or words with the ones already found on the board.
In many cases the problems are bona fide word puzzles, such as challenges to deduce orthographic, phonetic, semantic, or etymological patterns in word lists, or to generate word lists of a given pattern.
Individual house rules may vary when playing Fictionary, but play usually proceeds like this: One player, the "picker" for the turn, chooses an obscure word from the dictionary and announces and spells it to the other players.
The various ways of expressing the idiom (acting, spelling, drawing, shouting) are also determined by the roll of a separate die with icons corresponding to the various means of expressing the idioms.
The rules used by experienced players can be more stringent, such as allowing the use of only one poet's verses or of one theme.
While traditional Japanese haiku usually has 3 phrases of 5, 7, and 5 on ("sound symbols"), haiku in English usually has seventeen (or fewer) syllables.
(Alain Brobecker) (19, missing C, H, J, K, Q, W, and X) In German "Fix, Schwyz!", quäkt Jürgen blöd vom Paß.
Most of Bergerson's other original palindromes are credited not to himself but rather to Edwin Fitzpatrick, a fictitious 19th-century poet.
Šatrovački (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtroʋatʃkiː]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатровачки) or šatra (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtra]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатра) is an argot within the Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian languages comparable to verlan in French or vesre in Spanish.
Brazil also had a show in the 1960s and again from 2012 to 2013 called Let's Play Hangman, hosted by Silvio Santos.
Cantonese dim sum culture developed rapidly during the latter half of the nineteenth century in Guangzhou.
Ryōwa claimed his family lineage for the Ogasawara Ko school, making him the 4th generation grandmaster after Furuichi Inei.
The procedure and requirements vary by school, but generally only advanced students who have been licensed to take students of their own, and may thus be addressed as sensei, are given a tea name.
Jean Brindesi's early 19th-century oil paintings about Istanbul daily life show simit sellers on the streets.
Coming out in the public markets in 2008 at the World Tea Expo, TeaGschwendner was the highest ranked tea merchant with 27/30 judged teas in a top three respective category; comparably, the next competing company, Rishi Tea, was closer to 13/30.
The tea-drinking habits of Hong Kong residents derive from Chinese tea culture, primarily the Cantonese traditions such as yum cha.
History The origin of the cream tea is disputed, although there is evidence to suggest that the tradition of eating bread with cream and jam existed at Tavistock Abbey in Devon in the 11th century.
Description Cheese tea consists of cold green or black tea topped with a layer of cream cheese blended with cream or condensed milk, creating a cap that can be either sweet or slightly salty.
The drink, already common in Europe, was a favourite of his new Portuguese bride, Catherine of Braganza.
Other collaborations include partnerships with McDonald's, BT21, Horlicks from GlaxoSmithKline, and biscuit brand Julie's.
The appearance of shell cups can be used as a virtual marker for the advent of Hopewell culture in many instances.
As of 2018, more than 60 cafés that were reported to have such activities were closed by the Iraqi authorities.
Altogether, that would be enough silver to buy ten thousand horses." King Seonjo, however, replied "We do not have a tea drinking custom in our country." Late-Joseon dynasty- Japanese Occupation to 1980s Tea was reintroduced to Korea by the Japanese in 1890s, the same time coffee was introduced.
The Herveys Range Heritage Tea Rooms are an historical cafe located at the top of the Hervey Range, approximately 32 kilometres (20 mi) north-west of Townsville in North Queensland, Australia.
It was initially constructed during the Edo period and later relocated due to its deteriorated state and is now in the gardens of the Tokyo National Museum.
There are other indications that Heidegger was inspired by Eastern writings, but let's leave this topic here.
Many hotels and fine Chinese cuisine restaurants offer mooncakes packaged in elaborate boxes with multiple compartments and jeweled clasps.
History The tea house was originally constructed with materials from Kiyosu Castle based on the design by Lord Furuta Oribe (1544–1615).
The classical door case is surmounted by a pediment with a statue of a golden lion, and two figures of Chinese men who signify the origin of the beverage.
The most common type of black tea is from Assam; however, a blend of different tea variations may be used.
It originally derived from the tea-growing region around Mount Jiulong in the South of Jiangxi Province in China, where the tea pickers would sing lengthy songs to each other whilst undertaking the monotonous task of tea-picking.
Waste and Over-packaging Behind Mooncake Mooncake packaging has become increasingly fancy and wasteful due to its giftability.
See also Golden Tea Room Notes References Further reading Floorplan, 3-D view, history, and extensive photos, from Columbia University
This privilege was limited for the upper class, and financially out of reach for most working-class locals.
In 1973, the 32nd head of the Ogasawara family, Ogasawara Tadamune, assumed the head of the Ogasawara Ko school of chanoyu to promote a resurgence of the school.
It was formerly a tea-house and music venue situated in the West End of Glasgow where it served teas, as well as vegetarian and vegan foodstuffs.
Eierkoeken experienced increased popularity in the early 2000s when dietitian Sonja Bakker introduced them as a healthy snack option.
Luk Yu (Chinese: 陸羽茶室) is a teahouse and dim sum restaurant located on Stanley Street, in the Central area of Hong Kong, established in 1933.
Locations Chai Point has presence in eight Indian cities with presence across retail locations, airports, and business parks.
In 1986 the Kakurintei Document was discovered, some 140 years after it was erected and a movement to reconstruct the Kakurintei was started under the auspices of the Saga Prefectural Culture Federation, the Saga Prefectural Tea Ceremony Association and other groups.
Tea bricks were preferred in Asian trade prior to the 19th century, since they were more compact and less susceptible to physical damage than loose leaf tea.
The name "Mushakōjisenke" for the other of the three lines of the family derives from the fact that the family's homestead is located along Mushakōji street.
A popular use of the tea is in cocktails where the showmanship of the cocktail making incorporates the instantaneous color change in front of the patron that ordered the drink.
In addition to designing the internal architectural alterations and a new external façade, in collaboration with his wife Margaret, Mackintosh designed almost every other aspect of the tearooms, including the interior design, furniture, cutlery, menus, and even the waitress uniforms.
Although Browning was arrested several times during these raids, the Rangers were unable to successfully charge him with any crimes until 1950, when he was indicted on gambling-related charges.
Amuleek Singh, however, created an entire ecosystem of making the tea and its packaging more appealing to white collar Indians who were latching on to the high end coffee joints.
The confidence of her owners was such that, before proving the profitability of Agamemnon in service, they were building two sister ships, Achilles (1866) and Ajax (1867).
The ability to drag a long stream of tea above the heads of the patrons without giving them a shower is an amusing novelty for the locals and tourists alike.
The Hatakeyama Memorial Museum of Fine Art (畠山記念館, Hatakeyama Kinenkan) is a private museum established in October 1964 in Tokyo, Japan.
Dishes include waffles, Eggs Benedict, idli burgers, akuri, ragi dhokla, chicken dishes, tortellini, sandwiches, soups, salads and various desserts, among others.
By the later 19th century, jumble dough had become substantially softer, and some recipes called for the cook to firm up the dough on ice for several hours before shaping.
In other parts of the Middle East, in Egypt it is consumed with boiled eggs and/or duggah, which is a mixture of herbs used as condiments.
A faithful reproduction of the front part of the house is located in the Tokugawa Art Museum which showcases a rotating exhibit of Japanese tea utensils.
The Book of Tea (茶の本, Cha no Hon) by Okakura Kakuzō is a long 1906 essay linking the role of chadō (teaism) to the aesthetic and cultural aspects of Japanese life and protesting Western caricatures of "the East".
See also Afternoon tea Tea party Tea sandwich Cuisine of Devon Cornish cuisine References Further reading Smillie, Susan (20 May 2010).
It was transported from Osaka Castle to Hizen Nagoya Castle in the fifth month of Bunroku 1 (1592), from where Hideyoshi launched the Japanese invasions of Korea (1592–98).
He then made a fair copy of the seven volumes, and the book was named Southern Record for the first time.
Eventually, Sōtan's youngest son, Sensō Sōshitsu, inherited that part of the estate, which came to be known as the home of the Urasenke.
Tea bricks were in fact the preferred form of currency over metallic coins for the nomads of Mongolia and Siberia.
Despite his illness, Bramah had been working on a book which was to be called Britain's Tea Heritage.
However, this results in the drink getting gradually diluted as the ice melts, leading to some restaurants preparing their cold milk tea via ice-less methods as a selling point.
Congressman De Priest responded to the Southern insults with strong language of his own in public comments.
The company also claims (although this is contested) to have invented the "original" recipe for Earl Grey tea, Grey having given the recipe to Robert Jackson & Co.
Malaysia nominated it, along with nasi lemak and roti canai, for 2024 United Nations recognition as intangible cultural heritage foods.
From the consumer perspective, milk tea is characterized by its sweet, creamy taste, suitable for many customers, not only students, but also children and office workers.
He described the first act as "Love"; the play opens auspiciously, using gentle themes and pleasant music to draw in the attention of the audience.
Tchai-Ovna Fine Teas, based in Glasgow, is a speciality leaf tea shop and blenders which retails a wide variety of tea online and wholesales to other businesses.
Teas from Europe and Asia were not introduced to Mexican agriculture, however, and have yet to reach the level of popularity that they have in many other countries.
Beginning in 1924, the Argentine government urged farmers to experiment by planting tea seeds that the government imported from China and then distributed to interested farmers.
Due to the tea pet not being glazed, the figurine absorbs some of the tea, resulting in the tea pet changing color over time, as well as building up a tea scent.
In his "sleek complacency", however, the Westerner tended to see in the tea ceremony only "another instance of the thousand and one oddities which constitute the quaintness and childishness of the East to him".
The texture of this type of mooncake crust is similar to the shortcrust pastry used in Western pie crusts or tart shells.
Quickly stores in San Francisco became the center of former Supervisor Ed Jew's extortion controversy, where he solicited bribes estimated at $84,000.
History Located in Mānoa Valley, the Waiʻoli Tea Room was formally dedicated in 1922, as part of the Salvation Army Girls' Home program to teach young women marketable job skills.
In the bakeries of Chinatown, San Francisco, it is commonly referred to as "sponge cake." Preparation Traditionally prepared wrapped cakes are usually steamed in a wok pan, however, Chinese-American sponge cakes are usually baked in an oven.
Orwell says tea should be poured first because "one can exactly regulate the amount of milk whereas one is liable to put in too much milk if one does it the other way round".
had offered dim sum for decades, it was not until the late 1980s that there was a broader public awareness of dim sum.
Names usually include the character for "hut", "hall", or "arbour", and reflect the spirit of rustic simplicity of the tea ceremony and the teachings of Zen Buddhism.
Quickly was founded in California in 1996 and started its trademark licensing program at the same time.
Its creed is "Train (修練) in order to better oneself; Serve (奉仕) your community; Friendship (友情) toward the world and among members." At first, the organization was called Seinenkai.
It sits on the edge of Taipei Basin; the entire city of Taipei can be seen from the mountain, especially on a cloudless day.
The incident led to the island-wide anti-government uprising by the Taiwanese people called the February 28 incident and the implementation of White Terror in Taiwan from 1949 to 1987.
The Brazilian Café (Arabic: مقهى البرازيلية) was an old well-known coffeehouse in Baghdad, Iraq, that was notable for its European style and significant artistic legacy.
The photograph depicts six tea cups and saucers lit so to form shadows that suggest the form of ballet dancers.
Maghrebi mint tea (at-tāy): (Arabic: الشاي, romanized: aš-šāy; Maghrebi Arabic: التاي at-tāy) is a green tea prepared with spearmint leaves and sugar, traditional to the Maghreb region (the northwest African countries of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, and Mauritania).
The Tibetan monks would consume the butter tea twice a day and on occasion enjoy the beverage with paksuma, a special rice porridge.
Fare The Brooke Bond Taj Mahal Tea House is associated with and serves Brooke Bond Taj Mahal and other tea products, totaling over 40 tea varieties.
Content Addressed to a Western audience, it was originally written in English and is one of the great English tea classics.
The 17th-century traveler Evliya Çelebi wrote that there were 70 simit bakeries in Istanbul during the 1630s.
Although there are imports from Japan and China, Ryukyu also produces tea and tea sets locally, providing conditions for the consumption of tea by the Ryukyu people.
Teh tarik madu is teh tarik blended with honey as part of its preparation, which is usually served cold.
In 2001, Tealuxe reported that its top store grossed between $1million and $1.2million annually, comparable with a Starbucks store at the time.
Tavalon Tea is headquartered in New York, New York and operates a website for online retail purchases from their warehouse facility in , New Jersey.
History Eierkoeken have their origins in the Dutch province of Brabant, where they were traditionally made on Christmas and Easter, as well as throughout the rest of the year.
It was the world's first museum devoted to the history of tea and coffee, covering 400 years of commercial and social history of two commodities, since their arrival in Europe from Africa and the Far East.
Meimei-an was designed in the style of the Fumai-ko school of tea ceremony (茶道), which was created by the seventh Lord of the Matsudaira to rule from Matsue.
Following the writings of Zeami, all major forms of Japanese traditional drama (Noh, kabuki, and jōruri) utilize the concept of jo-ha-kyū, from the choice and arrangement of plays across a day, to the composition and pacing of acts within a play, down to the individual actions of the actors.
For a period, Lollicup offered a trademark licensing program, which allowed the licensees (operators) to maintain complete control over the store without having to pay a royalty fee.
This repeated the curved form of the first floor and emphasised the heavily recessed entrance to the building below.
At that time people bought tea leaves from tea houses so that they could serve tea to visiting guests.
European colonists adopted the production of the yaupon leaves from the Native peoples and made an infusion which they called by various names including yaupon tea, Indian tea, Carolina tea, South Seas tea or Appalachia tea.
The Elmwood Inn in Perryville, Kentucky is a historic building which served as a mansion, a battlefield hospital in 1862, as an academy during 1891–1925, and later as a restaurant and as a tea house, and then again as a private residence.
Other names are based on the Byzantine Greek kollikion (κολλίκιον), or Ancient Greek kollyra (κολλύρα), or Greek koulouri (κουλούρι).
They have proven to be an attraction for tourists in destinations such as Sultan Ahmet and Taksim in Istanbul.
Chashitsu which are larger than 4.5 mats are called hiroma ("big room"), while those that are smaller are called koma ("small room").
History The house was constructed in November 1846 (Kouka 3) at Kōno Park, at the command of the 10th lord of the Saga clan, Lord Naomasa Nabeshima.
Along with Omotesenke and Mushakōjisenke, it is one of the three lines of the Sen family descending from Sen no Rikyū, which together are known as the san-Senke or the "three Sen houses/families" (三千家).
In 1879, a baker advertised in a newspaper that eierkoeken are specially recommended by the medical gentlemen, though it was stated that they were not especially intended for sick people but were recommended as a special treat.
Jo-an has been relocated a number of times, but since 1972 has formed part of the Urakuen gardens in Inuyama, Aichi Prefecture, part of the historic Owari Province which the Oda clan ruled starting in the 15th century.
It emerged in the mid-20th century, particularly in the post-World War II era, and is often associated with functionality and affordability.
Mizuya (水屋; "water room") is the term for the preparation area in a Japanese tea house (chashitsu) or attached to any venue used for the Japanese tea ceremony.
Pratt has addressed audiences from Zurich, Switzerland (Le Club des Buveurs de The Suisse) and London's Kew Gardens to Hangzhou (China Tea Research Institute).
Common shorthands include 'kya seint,' 'paw seint,' and 'cho seint.' Sweet Sweet varieties are called a-cho (အချို), which are typically sweetened with more condensed milk, relative to standard varieties.
However, from 1890 to 1908, Southern states dominated by white conservative Democrats passed new constitutions and laws to disenfranchise most blacks, excluding them from the political system.
The museum specialises in the collection, study and display of teaware, including many samples of Yixing teapots, from Jiangsu Province, China, as well as the world's oldest known extant teapot.
The restoration of no 217 included extensive re-creation of Mackintosh's interior schemes and decorative elements lost over the years.
This picture evolved after I had bought some inexpensive cups and saucers from Woolworths for our studio coffee breaks to replace our rather worn old mugs.
Cardamom (Arabic: هال, romanized: hāl) tea is very common in the Arab world, and is known for its strong aroma.
Clipper «Cutty Sark» was built in 1869 at the Scottish shipyard «Linton & Scott» by special order of the shipowner John Willis, to participate in tea races.
The factory and museum are located on the slopes of Chokarmudy, one of South India's highest peaks, from which the entire valley of Lockhart can be seen.
5000 list of fastest-growing privately held companies in America, with a rank of 2939 for its 3-year growth of 123% and an estimated revenue of $60 million in 2013.
However, in 2010 Brazil's national anti-drug body approved the consumption of the drink for religious rituals after decades of studies and talks with religious institutions.
Features The teahouse was designed by Hayahiko Takase, blending Western and Eastern characteristics.
Established in 1885, it is known for its trademark Fuchun baozi and its self-made tea Kuilongzhu (Chinese: 魁龙珠).
A tea room may be a room set aside in a hotel, especially for serving afternoon tea, or may be an establishment that only serves cream tea.
Based on Üsküdar court records (Şer’iyye Sicili) dated 1593, the weight and price of simit was standardized for the first time.
This same concept was later adapted into jōruri and kabuki, where the plays are often arranged into five acts with jo-ha-kyū in mind.
His name was Harusato, however, his nickname was Fumai-ko, thus his style of tea ceremony also took on the name Fumai-ryu (不昧流).
About one hundred years later, in 1686, Tachibana Jitsuzan, the chief vassal of the Kuroda clan purportedly happened to find the book while heading to Edo with his lord.
These buildings are the original stables of the 18th century palazzo designed by Francesco De Sanctis, architect of the Spanish Steps.
According to legend Oda Nobunaga saw the pillar with the two knots and remarked to Toyotomi Hideyoshi that it looked like his face.
In music The cultural importance of Senegalese tea drinking was underlined in the song Ataya, a track on Ismaël Lô's 1986 album, Natt.
Aramaic: ܩܶܠܽܘܪܳܐ/ܩܸܠܘܿܪܵܐ (qeluro/qelora); Turkish: gevrek; South Slavic đevrek, ђеврек, gjevrek, ѓеврек, геврек.
They were Isabel Cargill, granddaughter of William Cargill, founder of the city of Dunedin in New Zealand and Anna Maria Babington, descendant of Anthony Babington who was hanged in 1586 for conspiring against Elizabeth I.
Baanders and Jan Baanders designed the pavilion in the Modernist Nieuwe Bouwen or Nieuwe Zakelijkheid style of architecture, a Dutch take on Bauhaus.
Lu Yu's, heavily influenced by Buddhism, particularly the Zen–Chán Buddhist school, strongly influenced the development of Japanese tea culture.
History In 1978, Wang Chen Tsai-Hsia and her husband, Wang Yuan-hong (王元宏), a businessman who was in the textile trade, founded the Shiatzy International Company Limited in 1978.
When drinking tea, first place the tea on your lap, then while holding the bowl lightly with your right hand, lift and lift it with your left hand.
This was a period of peace, economic and cultural prosperity, and increased domestic self-sufficiency in sugar.
Sometimes thyme, mint or rose water is added, which is believed to be good for the stomach and heart.
The extent of teamaster Rikyū's involvement in the design of the room is not known, however he was in attendance on a number of occasions when tea was being served to guests in the room.
The beverage is traditionally prepared in a gourd vessel, also called mate in Spanish and cuia (= gourd) in Portuguese, from which it is drunk.
During the Kingdom of Iraq, the country saw a massive growing movement of art and poetry, especially in the 1940s.
Cederberg Tea House was founded by a mother/daughter duo from Johannesburg, South Africa in 2013, and gained popularity as the only South African tea shop in Seattle, Washington.
The photograph was exhibited in the London Salon of Photography in 1935, the first work of Cotton's to be shown outside Australia.
In 1880 Tate acquired rights to another process, invented in Belgium by Gustav Adant, where sugar "tablets" were manufactured on rotating machines and then sliced into cubes (at the time, they were called "dominoes").
This concept is applied to elements of the Japanese tea ceremony, martial arts (kenjutsu, iaido, kendō, karate), dramatic structure in the traditional theatre, and to the traditional collaborative linked verse forms renga and renku (haikai no renga).
Britain imported goods and raw materials from its colonies, and exported its cultural traditions to them.
The factory allows public visits during regular working hours, allowing visitors the opportunity to observe the various stages of tea processing.
Tinkham's proposals were defeated but added to the South's feeling of threat from Hoover's administration.
The common people began to eat wagashi that used a lot of sugar, and various types of wagashi were produced, especially in Kyoto.
The Lockhart Tea factory produces about 20 million kilograms of tea annually and is owned by Harrisons Malayalam Limited, one of South India's largest tea cultivators.
The entrance, on the south side, is said to have been designed larger than usual in order to allow Hideyoshi to enter with his armor on.
A heavy cream "cloud" ("Wölkje"—a diminutive of 'cloud' in Frisian) is added to the tea "water", and the sugar represents "land".
Career In the early Edo Period, Ogasawara Tadazane (1596-1667), the lord of the Kokura Domain, hired Ryōwa as Sadō (tea master).
Murder of Harry Lam On 30 November 2002, businessman Harry Lam Hon-lit was shot dead at point-blank range while eating breakfast at Luk Yu.
Expansion On September 25, 2022, Tealive opened its 800th branch in Batu Kawan, Penang, with plans to reach 1000 branches by 2024.
The handsome building served as a boarding school, the Elmwood Academy, from 1896 until 1924 under the care of headmaster Thomas Poynter.
Dutch exploration The next recorded reference to tea in India after the 12th century dates to 1598, when a Dutch traveler, Jan Huyghen van Linschoten, noted in a book that the leaves of the Assam tea plant were used by Indians as a vegetable, eaten with garlic and oil, and as a drink.
Traditional medicinal infusions are common in some Mexican immigrant communities in the United States.
The ship's owner's brother, who was on the crew, suggested that the captain take Cutty to the port of Cape Town for repairs, but the ship's carpenter managed to make a new rudder.
In the Basque Country, in particular, it is common to have a mid-morning snack consisting of high-protein food like eggs, bacon, or cured meat on bread, called "hamarretako" (lit.
Sugar is added to the teapot and the tea is poured into small glasses of a certain height and then poured back and forth from the glass to the teapot several times so that foam appears in the glass.
Although the first tea bushes were commercially grown in Azerbaijan as early as 1912, tea-growing gained commercial value in the 1930s under Soviet rule.
It also hosted musical events, with performances from songwriters, jazz musicians and other music artists.
The Chicago district represented by De Priest had a reputation among some whites for political corruption, at a time when Chicago and other big cities were thought by whites to be dominated generally by machine politics built on ethnic immigrants and their descendants.
This resulted in Hong Kong–style milk tea (among other cultural items, like cha chaan teng) becoming part of the Hong Kong identity.
The tea garden was a part of early English commercial pleasure gardens; often parties of couples visited these, the men occupying themselves with lawn bowls and beer or wine, while the ladies went to the tea garden.
The number of train was changed from the 6865 / 6866 to 16865 / 16866 since December 2010 onwards, as a part of train management system over the entire Indian Railways network.
Mooncakes are luxurious gifts in Singapore and are very popular as gifts to clients, friends and family.
The museum contains exhibits on tea pioneers, including James Taylor and Thomas Lipton, as well as much vintage tea-processing paraphernalia.
Regional variations Australia and New Zealand Australia and New Zealand have "morning tea" that occurs at approximately 10:30 a.m.
In Hannah Glasse's 1747 The Art of Cookery, "jumballs" are made from sugar, flour, eggs, butter, and almonds with rosewater.
The chain was founded in 1978 by the Syrian entrepreneur Khalil Nasraui, as a small shop next to the São João and Ipiranga avenue, in the city of São Paulo.
In popular culture Romanian conductor Sergiu Celibidache's focus was on creating, during each concert, the optimal conditions for what he called a "transcendent experience".
The trades used by the artisans were passed from generation to generation within families, such as the use of nature, and repetition of patterns, descendant from traditional Persian design.
Rembertus Dodonaeus wrote in his Cruydt-boeck (Herb book) from 1608 about the healing properties of eyercoekskens.
Cheese tea, also known as naigai cha, is a beverage consisting of fruity, layered iced teas topped with a pillow of salted, whipped cream cheese.
Snowskin mooncakes in Singapore feature flavors ranging from Lychee Martini, Baileys, Matcha Red Bean, durian, and various fruit pastes.
It is also popular in the Gulf Arab region, where it is known as Chai Karak (Arabic: شاي كرك, Urdu: کڑک چائے).
Ginger is then grated into the mixture, followed by the addition of tea masala, typically consisting of crushed ginger, crushed cardamom, lemongrass, cloves, and cinnamon.
Japanese exchange students attended these lectures, and I explained that there were many other elements of classical Eastern thought in Heidegger's philosophy and gave some examples.
Chamei (literally, "tea name") is a Japanese word that may refer to the name given to a particular blend of powdered green tea (matcha) or to the name bestowed on an advanced practitioner of Japanese tea ceremony.
It also introduced four new menus: Signature Brown Sugar Pearl Milk Tea, Roasted Milk Tea with Handmade Pearls, Signature Passion Fruit Green Tea, and Grapefruit Chia Tea Booster.
America Europe Middle East Africa Oceania Asia Collaborations In 2012, AirAsia announced that it would offer Chatime on its flights and claimed that is would be the "world's first and only in-flight bubble tea".
James Richardson recorded a description of a Moroccan tea ceremony in the 1840s, and said that during his travels tea was drunk widely and all day long.
As a result of the chaos of the 8/15 liberation and the 6/25 war, the former style of dabang gradually disappeared and transformed into a commercial café.
The collection was highly regarded as a direct record of Rikyu's teachings and exerted a great influence on the process of the concept building of wabi-cha.
Okakura had been taught at a young age to speak English and was proficient at communicating his thoughts to the Western mind.
In Tibet pieces of tea are broken from tea bricks, and boiled overnight in water, sometimes with salt.
Simit are generally sold by street vendors in Turkey, who either have a simit trolley or carry the simit in a tray on their head.
The power generation plant of the estate dates back to 1920s; a rail engine wheel of the Kundala Valley Railway that shuttled between Munnar and Top Station by 1924.
The historic building The original one-story lava rock and shingle bungalow features an open lānai (veranda), a large room with an open-beam ceiling, fireplace, and tall double-hung windows, and another smaller room with a fireplace.
The term is particularly associated with the Japanese tea ceremony, and is often brushed onto scrolls which are hung in the tea room.
When the chain's Shanghai branch opened in 2017, reports indicated that customers paid others to wait in line for up to three hours on their behalf.
The Elmwood Inn building was the Elmwood Academy from 1891 to 1925, built c.1850, served as a hospital in the Battle of Perryville.
History Gunpowder tea was introduced into North Africa by the British in the 18th and 19th centuries via Morocco and Algeria.
This is what is meant by "one time, one meeting." This passage established the yojijukugo (four-letter idiomatic) form ichi-go ichi-e (一期一会) known today.
Red bean ice: A drink with red bean, evaporated milk, and ice Soft drinks: Coca-Cola, 7 Up, Fanta, and cream soda are some common selections.
The old tsukubai and some tobi ishi remain in the old park while some other items, like the tōrōs, are being kept in the museum storage.
Similar products Certain varieties of Romanian covrigi are similar to simit, the places that sell them even being known as simigerii.
Preparation Traditionally, eierkoeken were made with ammonium bicarbonate (NH4HCO3) as a leavening agent, which releases carbon dioxide without leaving an alkaline taste.
A three-story building recreates the ambience of a 1970s domestic house, with a view of Hanok Village.
References External links Image of a small built-in mizuya Image of built-in mizuya at Doyu-an View of the main mizuya at the Urasenke Konnichian historical tea room complex, Kyoto
In the 1880s, fine hotels in both the United States and England began to offer tea service in tea rooms and tea courts, and by 1910 they had begun to host afternoon tea dances as dance crazes swept both the US and the UK.
In Malaysia, servers who are adept at pouring the tea from further away, theatrically and seemingly in "defi[ance of] physics", become local celebrities, and pulling contests draw thousands of spectators.
The working class of Hong Kong usually have breakfast in these Cantonese restaurants in the early morning.
Other such facilities included the Kaiulani Home for Girls, the Castle Home, and the Catholic Orphanage.
However, modern researchers believe that the book contains information not from Sen no Rikyū and regard it as a forgery.
See also List of tourist attractions in Taiwan Taipei Futai Street Mansion Monopoly Bureau References External links Taipei Story House website (in Chinese) Taipei Story House (in English)
It is made by combining crushed Oreo cookies on top of vanilla or chocolate pudding, and adding gummy candy worms on top.
Today, Fruit Roll-Ups remain manufactured by General Mills and distributed under the Betty Crocker brand in the United States and under the Uncle Tobys brand in Australia.
Chinese hawthorn is the traditional fruit used, though in ancient times other fruits were also used.
A2 Corporation focused on recovering from the deaths of its founders organizationally and financially, relied on its New Zealand licensees to develop the New Zealand market, and turned its focus to developing overseas markets.
Orange was coated in milk chocolate, while the cherry and raspberry were coated with dark chocolate.
More than 90% of babies aged 12 to 18 months old, and nearly all toddlers older than that, are given a protein source at least once a day.
This is done either manually, or by a series of automatic blades, or by a process called grinding (a method of deboning in which the softer parts of the chicken carcass are forced through a mesh, leaving behind the more solid pieces, resulting in a meat paste.
News of a new variety of sundae quickly spread by word-of-mouth and through correspondence and soon progressed far beyond Latrobe.
From Germany, candy canes spread to other parts of Europe, where they were handed out during plays reenacting the Nativity.
Gingerbread moulds often displayed actual happenings, by portraying new rulers and their consorts, for example.
The explanation given is that the Milky Way bar's three ingredients in the US (chocolate, nougat, and caramel) were originally meant to represent the three musketeers.
The first time the "Ants on a Log" snack was mentioned in print was in an article published by the Star Tribune on February 15, 1959, which reads, "Anne Marie is working on snacks.
The wet food was sold in resealable pouches, which contained aluminium, sandwiched between two layers of plastic which eliminated the need for preservatives and meant that the food could be minimally processed.
In 2005, daylight saving time was extended to the first Sunday in November—just long enough to include Halloween.
In addition, he used the white colour of the converted sticks to teach children about the Christian belief in the sinless life of Jesus.
"Taquitos" in the Mexican border cities of Tijuana and Mexicali refer to small tacos sold in stands, rather than the rolled taco dish.
Babies typically move to consuming baby food once nursing or formula is not sufficient for the child's appetite.
Tanghulu, tang hulu, or bingtang hulu is a traditional Chinese snack consisting of several malt sugar coated fruits of Chinese hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida) on a bamboo skewer.
Post announced its new product to the press in 1964 several months before they went to market, calling them "Country Squares".
From the bone meal, it had about 12 ppm fluorine, which works out to about what pediatricians were prescribing about four decades later.
Children would often place these stickers on their lunch boxes to prove they had eaten Fruit by the Foot.
This gave Drane the idea of creating a convenient prepackaged lunch featuring Oscar Mayer's trademark lunch meats.
It was formerly served by the drive-in restaurant Sonic, but it is now made by companies such as Jimmy Dean.
They are sold individually in orange, kiwi-strawberry, grape, blue raspberry, fruit punch, citrus, and lemonade flavors Little Hug Fruit Slushee They are drinks sold in plastic pouches meant to be frozen that were released in 2015 in the flavors strawberry, blue raspberry, and lemonade.
Baby Bottle Pop is a brand of lollipops introduced by manufacturer Topps in 1998 in a baby bottle shape.
Fiesta Nachos: A kit consisting of nacho chips with "queso blanco" dipping cheese and salsa, a small Strawberry Banana Prime bottle, and a snack-sized Feastables Milk Chocolate Bar, based on the "Nachos with Cheese Dip and Salsa" Lunchable.
Red Velvet was initially released as a limited flavor in 2013, but sold so well that it was kept in production until 2017.
On 1 January 2014, The a2 Milk Company exited its joint venture with MWD by acquiring MWD's stake for a "nominal" amount.
Although neither Pablum nor its biscuit predecessor was the first food designed and sold specifically for babies, it was the first baby food to come precooked and thoroughly dried.
In popular culture The children's board game Candy Land includes a "Gumdrop Pass" and "Gumdrop Mountain" amongst its confectionery-themed nomenclature.
The name "Tater Tot" was created in the 1950s, and soon trademarked by a member of the Ore-Ida company's research committee who used a thesaurus to come up with an alliterative name.
On November 16, 2012, Hostess officially announced that it "will be winding down operations and has filed a motion with the U.S.
He ordered cooks to prepare the hawthorn with rock sugar, advising Huang to take five to ten of them before each meal.
In 2014, McDonald's introduced a mascot to Happy Meals in the United States named Happy, who originated in France and some international countries as early as 2009.
The sausage in a bun that is called a hot dog in other countries is known as an "American Hot Dog" and is usually available at the same locations.
Old-fashioned versions of the cake are basically a round braided brioche without filling but these days bakeries try to outdo one another with creative fillings.
See also Fruit by the Foot – Fruit-based snack made by General Mills Fruit Roll-Ups – American fruit snacks that originated in the 1980s References External links Official website
Tropical Variety Pack Sold in packages containing orange, fruit punch, lemonade, and tropical punch flavored drinks.
Targeted at children, they were acorn-shaped with a soft "licorice-like" exterior and a liquid inside, including "strawberries and pear puree concentrate", and came in two flavors: "Strawberry Splash" and "Gushin' Grape".
Food franchises Potato Corner and Papa John's also offer tater tots in select locations, though in the latter case these are branded as "Potato Tots".
For Chinese New Year, chocolate coins are sometimes now given in place of traditional Hongbao or "lucky money".
In recent years, it has become increasingly popular to decorate caramel apples for holidays like Halloween.
The bars cost five cents when they were introduced, and they were marketed as one of the largest chocolate bars available.
Baker's innovations solved these problems and made it possible to form chicken nuggets in any shape by first coating the meat in vinegar, salt, grains, and milk powder to make it hold together and then using an egg- and grain-based batter that could be fried as well as frozen.
Internationally Outside of the U.S., Go-Gurt is sold as "Yoplait Tubes" in Canada, as "Frubes" in the United Kingdom (previously as a sub-brand of Petit Filous), and was also sold in Japan as "グルト" ("Guruto").
Discontinued products Dizzy Grizzlies were a variant of Teddy Grahams, and were so called because they would "become dizzy" due to the snacker looking at each side again and again, as the backside is covered with chocolate and sprinkles.
The FTC is responsible for the regulation of advertising that they deem as being unfair or deceptive to the viewer.
20,000 children signed up online in 17 days, and many came back again and again to play branded games.
Until the late 1970's the Borden corporation also produced a brand of animal crackers, which came in a red box featuring the Elsie the Cow logo.
The gâteau des rois (referred to as royaume, brioche des rois, or coque des rois) is mainly popular in the Occitan-speaking regions of the south of France.
Classically, the preferred apples for use in caramel apples are tart-tasting apples with a crisp texture such as Granny Smith.
In the mid-1920s, records of Girl Scouts preparing "Some Mores" using the modern recipe appear, with the contraction s'more arising by the 1930s.
in 1964, fans of the Beatles in the US pelted the band with jelly beans (emulating fans in the UK who threw the British candy Jelly Babies at George Harrison, who reportedly liked eating them).
Ovaltine, also known by its original name Ovomaltine, is a brand of milk flavouring product made with malt extract, sugar (except in Switzerland), and whey.
Fudgsicle, originally sold as Fudgicle, is a flat, frozen dessert that comes on a stick and is chocolate-flavored with a texture somewhat similar to ice cream.
A plan offered in November 2009 would allow shareholders of Bristol-Myers to exchange one dollar of stock in that company for $1.11 worth of shares in Mead Johnson for the 133.5 million shares in the firm, which would value the company at $7.7 billion based on the stock's then current closing price.
"Advergaming" is a relatively new term in which computer games are built completely around a product with the ultimate goal of maintaining the child's attention to that specific product for longer than it would be held with a traditional commercial.
In 2022, the company released an advertisement more directly targeted at parents in light of new regulations, starring a character named "Juicio".
It is typically made by skewering hawthorn fruits and coating them in heated sugar syrup, which hardens in the cold.
It does not contain common allergens such as chicken eggs, lactose or nuts of any kind, while it does contain wheat and corn, which can be allergenic for some.
After this book was published, German bakers began baking ornamented fairy-tale houses of lebkuchen (gingerbread).
Kaufman told the Minneapolis–Saint Paul magazine City Pages that the original conception was for the yogurt to be firm, so the tube would stand straight up—like an ice pop—but when that didn't work out, they shifted toward a creamy yogurt.
Pre-made frozen corn dogs can also be heated in a microwave oven, but the cornbread coating will lack crisp texture.
Tip Top director Ben Schurr said that the previous version of the flavour had 5–6 gumdrops per scoop, and that the new version has 9–10 gumdrops per scoop.
Advertisers spend approximately $1 billion on television marketing that directly targets children and another $5 billion on other promotions.
In their first year, they earned $100,000,000 and after five years were earning $300,000,000 annually.
In December 2017 the company announced that in the summer of 2018 Geoffrey Babidge, who had been nearing retirement age, would step down and Jayne Hrdlicka would take over as CEO; at that time she was CEO of a subsidiary of Qantas.
External links Products Page on Hostess' website Products Page on Crumbs Carnival Treats website The T.W.I.N.K.I.E.S.
History Twinkies were invented on April 6, 1930, by Canadian-born baker James "Jimmy" Alexander Dewar for the Continental Baking Company in Schiller Park, Illinois.
This candy is formed by allowing a supersaturated solution of sugar and water to crystallize onto a surface suitable for crystal nucleation, such as a string, stick, or plain granulated sugar.
A2 Australia established new contracts with the dairy farmers who had A1 protein-free herds, promising better payment terms—a week in advance instead of once per month, after shipment.
Two problems the meat industry was facing at the time were being able to clump ground meat without a skin and producing a batter coating that could be both deep-fried and frozen without becoming detached.
Their "Mellow crème Pumpkin" was made to look like an autumnal fruit; each pumpkin contained 25 calories and 5 grams sugar.
The company's shares were delisted from the Amsterdam Stock Exchange at the end of 2007 as Danone gained full control.
In the United Kingdom, chocolate coins mimic the design of real money; they are traditionally bought around Christmas and are used to decorate the Christmas tree and to fill children's stockings.
The original mascot was Sydney, a caricature of modern Australian culture, who wore a hat, vest, and tie and spoke with an Australian accent, and was voiced by John Cameron Mitchell.
In October 2002, the food and drinks division of Novartis, the maker of Ovaltine, was bought by Associated British Foods.
However, the granules of the tea contained 94 to 96% sugar, which means that a fruit tea mixed according to specifications contained around two grams of sugar per 100 milliliters.
The a2 Milk Company launched an infant formula in New Zealand and Australia in September 2013 and an A1 protein-free thickened cream was launched in January 2014 under the a2 and a2 MILK brands.
History The origin of the cake tradition was popularly believed to be related to the Roman Saturnalia.
Capri Sun GmbH (renamed from SiSi-Werke in 2018) is organized and headquartered in Germany and is a subsidiary of Swiss companies Capri Sun AG and Capri Sun Group Holding AG and of German company Wild.
See also List of apple dishes Lollipop Tanghulu Caramel apple References External links Media related to Candy apples at Wikimedia Commons
According to Kellogg's, the rice used in the US version of the cereal is grown in the states of Louisiana and Arkansas.
It also used to link to the BuzzFeed article in the bio, but this was later changed to their official website.
Further development toward plastic packaging continued in 2003 after the 2001 change was considered a financial success.
In 2024, Boston hospital Shriner’s Children issued a press release warning about the possibility of severe scald burns as a result of following online recipes to make Tanghulu.
In 2007, French conglomerate Danone acquired Royal Numico for €12.3 billion, after the Numico board accepted the offer.
There have been caramel apple and green apple, s'mores and pumpkin spice, carrot corn (green and orange, with a carrot cake flavor), and birthday cake candy corn flavors.
The linear viscoelastic (LVE) property can be probed on pre-shaped gum cuds through a small isothermal strain deformation (i.e., below yield strain) under small amplitude oscillatory shear (SAOS).
The name "Tater Tot" is a registered trademark of Ore-Ida—which has been a subsidiary of Heinz (now part of Kraft Heinz) since 1965—but has become so widely associated with the dish that it is often used as a generic term.
Their use of the spices nutmeg and mace give the basic animal cracker a somewhat different taste from the Nabisco crackers.
The firm's first major infant formula was developed in 1910, and Dextri-Maltose, a carbohydrate-based milk modifier was introduced in 1911, making it the first American product for infants to be clinically approved and recommended by doctors.
Ovaltine also expanded by offering chocolate bars, chocolate Easter eggs, parfait, cookies, and breakfast cereals flavored with the original powder.
Most historians suggest that jelly beans were first associated with celebrations of Easter in the United States sometime during the 1930s due to their egg-like shape.
The pits and seeds of the hawthorn are emptied and are commonly filled with sweet red bean paste before being skewered and dipped.
Children do not begin to be able to understand advertising until about 7–8 years of age, and even at this age children's cognitive development is still not able to distinguish misleading advertising from others.
Studies also indicate they differ in nutrition, with plant-based alternatives typically containing less saturated fat, and that replacing meat with plant-based alternatives may lower LDL and total cholesterol.
The company also asserts that their products are low in sodium, fat, and saturated fats, have 0 grams of trans fat, and contain fewer than 400 calories.
In Argentina, sales continue with the comics in Spanish using the name "Yo amo Bazooka" (I love Bazooka).
The brand also has animal mascots, originally starting with a monkey, but later also including an alligator, a zebra, a jaguar, an elephant and a bear.
Nutritional information A standard-size 3 Musketeers bar (60 g) has 257 kilocalories (1,080 kilojoules) of food energy, 7 grams of total fat, and 40 grams of sugar, while the mini-size bar (serving size 41 g) has 179 kilocalories (750 kilojoules), 5 grams of total fat, and 27 grams of sugar.
BYU receives 55% of the royalties, which will go toward BYU's mentoring program and research, while Ogden receives the rest.
However, there is a scene with two children, a boy and a girl, where the little boy is supposedly proposing to the little girl with the Ring Pop.
Bristol-Myers announced in February 2009 that it was going to spin off Mead Johnson to focus on its primary pharmaceutics business, with an initial public offering estimated to bring in $562.5 million and would leave Bristol-Myers with 90% ownership of the firm.
McCormack's brother-in-law, Gregory Harding Keller, was a seminary student in Rome who spent his summers working in the candy factory back home.
Nutrition experts recommend, that children should not be given any sweetened beverages, but drink water instead.
More elaborate versions of s'mores came about in the 1990s, and today, s'mores are popular in the United States and Canada, where they are regarded as nostalgic.
They are created by dipping or rolling apples-on-a-stick in hot caramel, sometimes then rolling them in nuts or other small savories or confections, and allowing them to cool.
The brand's current marketing and product packaging incorporate this feature of the product: "The snack that smiles back!
In 2009, the company expanded to Sweden, Norway, and the United States and by 2014 was the UK's best-selling baby food company.
At the time, breast-feeding had declined in the middle and upper classes, with the effect that the diets of babies were often deficient in essential elements.
Many gingerbread people have a face, though whether the features are indentations within the face itself or other candies stuck on with icing or chocolate varies from recipe to recipe.
The company gave the development of the product to Bob Bernstein, who then came up with the idea for the Happy Meal.
The three characters are seen in Kellogg's 1933 national advertising and the three have since appeared together in many forms of advertising, including radio, movie shorts, and comic strips.
In the United States, the National Gingerbread House Competition began in 1992 at the Grove Park Inn in Asheville, North Carolina.
Fruit Roll-Ups have featured variants on the original plain sheets such as punch out shapes on the rolls and temporary tattoos for tongues and formerly on skin.
He left his job as managing director at Nickelodeon and launched the business with personal savings.
Regional variations and analogues In Scotland, macaroni and cheese can often be found in pies, known as a macaroni pie.
The wrapped coins are warmed and struck on both sides with coin-like dies, simultaneously embossing a design onto both the foil and the chocolate underneath.
While Jelly Belly still makes candy corn, the largest manufacturer of candy corn is Brach's Confections owned by the Ferrara Candy Company.
By the late 1990s, competitors of Brach's realized that the market for the special Halloween candy pumpkin was expanding.
Brazilian fast-food chain Bob's offered since 1959, milkshakes and sundaes made with Ovaltine where it goes by the name of "Ovomaltine," which became a flagship product of the fast-food chain in Brazil.
An updated version of the elf-like Snap Crackle and Pop appeared for the first time on television in 1960; previously it was advertised by Woody Woodpecker.
However, in 1885, the brothers were persuaded to join the temperance movement, and hence poured their entire stock into the gutters of Guildford High Street.
In some recipes for baked goods, apple sauce can be used as a substitute for fat or eggs to make them low-fat or vegan.
The factory is shown to have survived completely intact, allowing the Griffins to use it as a food source and a means to rebuild society.
The Rubin family eventually achieved control of Tootsie Roll and agreed that Bernard Rubin would run the company as president.
"Adorable Alert: Cow & Gate Pushes The Cute Envelope in New Spot – A bunch of cute kids messing around in a recording studio turns into an impromptu performance of an 80's classic".
United Kingdom The Twelfth cake, Twelfth-night cake, or Twelfth-tide cake was once popular in the United Kingdom on Twelfth Night.
In 2025, Consumer Reports assessed that Lunchly kits were not generally healthier than those of competitor Lunchables, and contained concerning levels of lead and phthalates.
Currie believes that the reason for the success of Goody Goody Gum Drops is its appeal to children, saying that ice cream can "arguably be a little bit bland", and that it is not uncommon for families to have an "adult" flavour and one that caters more for children.
The game was similar to Club Penguin, it included character customization, socialization, decorating your home area, and minigames.
Products Kidfresh meals are promoted as being made with natural ingredients and are free from artificial colors, flavors, and preservatives.
On July 8, 1986, President Ronald Reagan signed the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1986 into law; it contained a daylight saving rider which continued daylight saving time until the early morning of last Sunday in October; this did not include Halloween night.
The product was developed at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto to combat infant malnutrition.
For example, the strawberry flavor contains no strawberries, and the only ingredient derived from fruit is concentrated pear juice.
In Chile, the Happy Meal, along with kids' meals at other fast food chains, no longer includes free toys, in response to a 2012 law banning such toys in a move to prevent obesity.
Each 3 Musketeers package contained three flavors, chocolate, strawberry and vanilla, hence the name, which was derived from the 1844 novel The Three Musketeers by Alexandre Dumas.
Apple sauce (in American English usually the closed compound applesauce) is a purée (not necessarily served as a true sauce) made of apples.
Variations While cheddar cheese is most commonly used for macaroni and cheese, other cheeses may also be used—usually sharp in flavour—and two or more cheeses can be combined.
When milk is added to the cereal the rice tends to collapse, creating the characteristic "snap, crackle and pop" sounds.
In 1862 he transferred premises to 7, Exeter Street and in 1912 Edwin Farley sold the business, including the secret formula for Farley's rusks to Mr William Bolitho Trahair, prior to emigrating to Canada.
In 2011, Ovaltine was banned in Denmark under legislation forbidding the sale of food products with added vitamins unless claims about their effectiveness are proven.
Johannes introduced Backhaus to his brother, Martinus van der Hagen, who owned a factory in The Netherlands producing margarine and dairy products.
A gingerbread relief of the patron saint was frequently given as a gift on a person's name day, the day of the saint associated with his or her given name.
In 1998, the bar's advertisements featured three men dressed as the legendary Three Musketeers to market the "45% less fat" campaign.
In April 2007 A2 Corporation announced a deal in which the joint venture would license rights to the Original Foods Company, whose branding the A1 protein-free product would carry, and in which the product would be sold in several midwestern states through the Hy-Vee supermarket chain.
The most common variety is light-colored and slightly sweet, but darker chocolate-flavored and colorful frosted varieties are also sold.
The meal, which included a standard Big Mac or Chicken McNuggets combo meal, came with a collectible toy of the brand's mascot Cactus Buddy or four-eyed variants of McDonaldland characters Grimace, Birdie or the Hamburglar.
In the late 19th and early 20th century, chocolate pudding was thought of as an appropriate food for invalids or children as well as a dessert.
ISI acquired Twinlab in September 2003, followed by another string of acquisitions in the dietary supplement market.
Reception A 1991 Sun-Sentinel review said that the insides oozed rather than gushed, and found the confectionery surprisingly pleasant.
Left with no livelihood, they converted their now empty shop into a dairy, trading under the name of the West Surrey Dairy.
However, other shapes, especially seasonal themes (Christmas, Halloween, Easter, etc.), and characters are also common.
Chicago confectioners, the Bunte Brothers, filed one of the earliest patents for candy cane making machines in the early 1920s.
Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches are seen in a poor light by proponents of gourmet cuisine, who have historically used the sandwich as an example of low-quality food.
Due to rising costs and wartime restrictions on sugar, the vanilla and strawberry pieces were phased out leaving only the popular chocolate piece.
Also in 1946, Dave Barham opened the first location of Hot Dog on a Stick at Muscle Beach in Santa Monica, California.
In 1895, Johnson developed a side business called The American Ferment Company to create a digestive aid.
Products Plum Baby had 38 products ranges including Stage 1 – 3 baby and toddler food, snack ranges and others.
Marketing and sales channels Yashili sell its products via a comprehensive national sales and distribution network, which covers all regions within mainland China.
In the episode "Angela's New Best Friend" on the TV series Who's the Boss (season 2 episode 22), Angela gets upset when she can't find her Butter Brickle ice cream and Tony tells her "Some other person ate it." when in fact it was just in another spot in the freezer.
In February 2017, British consumer goods company Reckitt (then known as Reckitt Benckiser) bid $16.7 billion for the company.
Manufacture Until the sale by Nestlé, Juicy Juice was manufactured in Ocean Spray production facilities, as a result of a 2002 joint agreement between Nestlé and Ocean Spray.
In therapeutic diets The BRAT diet and the CRAM diet, which are given to children with diarrhea and stomach problems, include apple sauce.
A common misconception regarding the Three Musketeers bar and Milky Way bar is that on release the two candies had their respective labels swapped in manufacturing.
The production method, called "corn starch modeling", likewise remains the same, though tasks initially performed by hand were soon taken over by machines made for that purpose.
They are also sometimes sold at carnivals and fairs Israel – almost solely sold in cities' squares on Yom Ha'atzmaut eve (Israel Independence Day) as part of the street celebrations.
A 2019 review in The BMJ, which criticized the health effects of marketing sugary drinks to children, found that the marketing techniques introduced by Philip Morris were still in use, even after Kraft became independent of it in 2007.
Children's song about making peanut butter and jelly were written, and "It's Peanut Butter Jelly Time" by Buckwheat Boyz became a popular internet meme in the early 2000s.
Composition Strawberry-flavored Fruit Gushers are composed of sugar, dried corn syrup, corn syrup, modified corn starch, fructose, pear concentrate, and grape juice concentrate.
A 2017 New York Times article found that Nestlé had been financing the society and vetting the articles before publication, leading to questions of scientific impartiality.
The designs include McDonald's, Coca-Cola, Hello Kitty & Peanuts, Beanie Babies, Barbie & Hot Wheels, and Shrek, Jurassic Park & Minions.
See also Starch mogul Dragée Gummy bears Skittles (candy) Turkish delight Nerds (candy) Jelly babies Jujube (confectionery) Gumdrop Mint (candy) Jelly (preserves) Jelly (dessert) Jelly bean rule References External links Media related to Jelly beans at Wikimedia Commons
Fruit by the Foot is a fruit snack made by General Mills and distributed under the Betty Crocker brand.
During the 1920s, the business transferred to Woolster Street and gave up its agencies to concentrate on rusk production.
In addition, the brand changed its mascots, ran an ad campaign aimed directly at children, which included games where children could sign up and win prizes.
United States One theory is that James Hemings brought the recipe to the United States after discovering it in France, prompted by Thomas Jefferson who was interested in extruded pasta.
Advertising and promotion Commercial jingle Commercials for the snack featured a song with the slogan you can lick it, shake it, and dunk it.
After the announcement, people across the country were outraged and many people wrote about their disappointment on social media.
Mead Johnson & Company, LLC is an American company that is a manufacturer of infant formula, both domestically and globally, with its best-known product Enfamil.
The original recipe used strawberries, raspberries and crushed pineapple with marshmallow syrup, chopped nuts, and pitted black cherries.
The modern definition of a taquito as a rolled-tortilla dish was given in 1929 in a book of stories of Mexican people in the United States aimed at a youth audience, where the dish was noted as a particularly popular offering of railroad station vendors.
In December 2019, Dunkaroos were briefly brought back in Australia by Nestlé with a chocolate-hazelnut flavour and kangaroo-shaped biscuits.
In May 2020, Dunkaroos began arriving at 7-Eleven stores in the United States until being brought to other stores, including Walmart, Target, and Kroger, a few months afterwards.
Original advertising was done through Nickelodeon whom he offered a share of revenue in exchange for free advertising.
Conversely, legislators in Arizona prohibited such restrictions, and Florida state senators proposed the same.
Several bakeries in Singapore sold dirt cakes served in flowerpots after the dessert appeared on the Taiwanese show A Hint of You.
The product is known for being mainly focused on children and consists of two (usually chocolate) biscuits with a sweet crème filling, with the difference that each cookie is modeled in the shape of a face with two holes for the eyes and one for the mouth.
Similar international flavors A similar flavor has been sold in both Italy and Malta under the name puffo, which is Italian for 'Smurf', as well as in Germany under the names Schlumpf and Engelblau, which translate to 'Smurf' and 'angel blue', respectively.
Numerous variations are made by swapping elements, such as graham crackers for ginger snap, saltines or potato chips, marshmallow for Peeps, and chocolate for Reese's Peanut Butter Cups.
In the summer of 2021, the Limited flavor "Mister-E" was discontinued shortly after its two-month marketing surge.
Advertising In the 1970s, Kellogg's revitalized Pop-Tarts advertising with a talking toaster named Milton.
Early versions of the dish using both egg and flour can be found in the 1918 edition of Fannie Farmer's Boston Cooking School Cook Book and in the 1903 edition of Mary Harris Frazer's Kentucky Receipt Book.
To ensure a random distribution of the pieces, the youngest person is to place themselves under the table and name the recipient of each piece as they are cut.
Marketing The Dunkaroos mascot is a cartoon kangaroo, explaining the product's name which is a portmanteau of dunk and kangaroos.
Boston Market, Michelina's, Kraft Foods, Cracker Barrel, and Stouffer's are some of the more recognizable brands of prepared and frozen macaroni and cheese available in the United States.
Away from a campfire, s'mores are sometimes prepared under a broiler, microwave, grill, or at the table in restaurants furnished with hibachi grills.
Nutricia is a Danone brand that specialises in therapeutic food and infant formula, including medical nutrition for babies with specific needs.
For a long time the management consisted of the three brothers Claus Hipp, Georg Johannes Hipp and Paulus Hipp.
That same year, their future National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame filly Paseana won the Breeders' Cup Distaff at Gulfstream Park.
In 2014, she was awarded the International Food and Agribusiness Management Association (IFAMA) Lifetime Award.
In 1963, Latham began advocating for the use of breastfeeding instead of infant milk formula, and after a decade of struggle, in 1981 he was able to regulate the marketing of infant formula.
Career Feingold worked as the house officer at the children's clinic of the University of Vienna, Austria from 1928 to 1929.
She entered the Rostov Medical Institute, graduated from it, and was left in the residency of the surgical clinic of the same institute.
The name is taken from the fictional Shangri-La, a reference Roberts explained by stating that Shangri-La is a "very peaceful place.
Dr Elisabet Helsing DrMedSci (3 June 1940 – 26 January 2019) was a Norwegian nutritional physiologist.
He was the chairman of HealthWatch (formerly the Campaign against Health Fraud) from 1991–1993, 1997–1999, 2003–2005.
Born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, she attended the University of Saskatchewan and graduated with a bachelor of science degree in dietetics and nutrition.
Janine Leal Reyes (born 13 November 1976) is a Venezuelan nutritionist, television presenter and model.
He was house physician at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh.
She invented a gluten-free all-purpose flour and consults to the food industry regarding product development and consumer eating habits.
Lahmann stressed the importance of diet, exercise and fresh air, and was an ardent practitioner of physiotherapy and hydrotherapy.
In 2012, she still lived in the house in Arima where she had been born a century earlier, which she had inherited from her parents, and in 2019 was living in a care home in the same area.
He was awarded a KCB in the New Year honours of 1952 and in 1953 was appointed Honorary Physician to the Queen.
Publications Soy Bean Recipes (1942) The Useful Soybean: A Plus Factor in Modern Living (1945) Soybean Cookbook (1968) [with Dorothea Van Gundy Jones] == References ==
She completed her doctorate in 2000 with a thesis titled "The relationship between body fat distribution, insulin sensitivity and postprandial lipids in Europeans and South Asians: a cross-sectional study".
Works (ed.) Art of Swimming, by Matthew Webb, 1875 (ed.) Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery, 1875-6 Common Sense Cooking, 1877 Choice Dishes at Small Cost, 1882 (ed.) Billiards, by W.
Career Poorwo Soedarmo lived in Banten, West Jakarta, during the Japanese occupation in Indonesia and was head of its medical services until 1948.
In the last chapter Brinton demonstrates the absence of pathological ground for the affection often named "gout in the stomach".
On October 15, 1933, she founded a health food store named The House of Better Living at 1207 West Sixth St., Los Angeles, California.
She was born in Bury on 16 March 1891, went to school in Hough Green and then studied medicine at the University of Liverpool where she was a Roger Lyon Jones scholar, won the Holt and Kanthack medals and the university prize for medicine.
(June 29, 1924 – April 27, 2004) was a professor of pathology at University of California, Los Angeles School of Medicine, a leading advocate of calorie restriction for life extension and health improvement, and a crew member of Biosphere 2.
He served as president of the Royal Society of Medicine and the Royal College of Physicians and was created 1st Baronet Hutchison, of Thurle, Parish of Streatley, Berkshire (UK) in 1939.
In 2010 Pollan was interviewed for the film Queen of the Sun: What are the bees telling us?, a feature-length documentary about honey bees and colony collapse disorder.
Early life and education One of three children, Rossi was raised by her single mother, a science teacher, on a farm near Cairns in rural Australia.
Hedayat Award", the highest award in Iran bestowed annually by the Iranian Food Science and Technology Association (chairman: Seyed Mohammad Hosseini) to the most achieved Iranian persons or institutions in the field of nutrition and food science.
In 1885 he was admitted as privatdocent to the medical facility of the University of Giessen, where he had been assistant in the medical clinic since 1883.
Writings Kicinski has written cookbooks including Simply Gluten Free Desserts (2011), Simply Gluten Free Quick Meals (2012), Simply Gluten Free Cupcakes (2013) and Simply Gluten Free 5 Ingredient Cookbook (2016).
In his 25 years as a physician at Mayo, Alvarez published 347 scientific papers, focusing on digestion and the human gut.
As group director for nutritional specialties, the firm made nutrition products for infants and children.
In 1914 he married May Tweedy, a lecturer at Bedford College (London) who would also carry out research into nutrition and dental disease.
He grew up on the island of Karmøy and took his secondary education at Lycée Corneille in Rouen, France.
Oneworld Publications, 2019 ISBN 978-1786075130 Ending Hunger:The Quest to Feed the World Without Destroying it.
Blog The website and blog, Simply Gluten Free, was Kicinski's first platform for sharing gluten-free recipes, starting in 2007.
It looks at the evolution of human diets, protein needs within the body and problems of world malnutrition.
Since at least 2023, Maye Musk has developed a large following in China, where she has "star status" and is seen as a role model.
He fell ill and, after police officials realized the severity of his condition, they transported him to a hospital.
Philip Bovier Hawk (July 18, 1874 - September 13, 1966) was an American biochemist, nutritionist, and amateur tennis player.
Oniang'o is the Founder Editor-in-chief of the African Journal of Food, Agriculture, Nutrition and Development (AJFAND) in 2001 to highlight relevant academic research in the field.
Over many years Grant championed the use of fresh and natural ingredients along with minimising the amount of processing in our food.
He served on bodies advising the National Institutes of Health and the National Research Council in the United States, and internationally to the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization.
In 2024, Hill released The living Proof Challenge, a zero-cost 12 week challenge to help people optimise important biomarkers to lower their risk of disease and live better for longer.
She wrote many papers and 12 books, including Toxicity of Industrial Organic Solvents which became the standard reference on the subject.
DiSpirito was a contestant on season seven of Dancing with the Stars and was paired with professional ballroom dancer Karina Smirnoff.
Horace Benge Dobell (1 January 1828 – 22 February 1917) was an English doctor and medical writer, consulting doctor to the Royal Infirmary/Hospital for Diseases of the Chest.
She is a member of the Canadian Association for the Gastronomic and Hotel Press (Association canadienne de santé publiqu) and of the Union des Artistes.
During Project Mercury, the astronauts could not safely remove their protective clothing to perform this physiological function, so this diet was crucial.
Rorer's Vegetable Cookery and Meat Substitute, which illustrated how to cook three meatless meals a day.
While at the Bamako institute, she notably developed Deliken, a sorghum-based nutritional biscuit, among other food products and techniques.
This booked was well received by the media with stellar reviews from the women's magazine Marie Claire (February 2009), further reviews were cited by other UK newspapers.
COVID Symptom Study In March 2020, during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in the UK, Spector made use of twins already taking part in a genetic study to begin an investigation of COVID-19 symptoms.
Other work Pollan is a contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine and a former executive editor for Harper's Magazine.
Most RDs work in the treatment and prevention of disease (administering medical nutrition therapy, as part of medical teams), often in hospitals, health-maintenance organizations, private practices, or other health-care facilities.
Genster was born September 5, 1917, in Sheffield, Illinois, where he graduated from high school when he was 16 years old and spent a year working on a farm before attending college.
Michael Hebranko (May 14, 1953 – July 25, 2013) was an American man who suffered from an extreme case of morbid obesity and was one of the heaviest men in the world.
She became a passionate believer in the diet, and after advocating for it in a series of articles in Sunday Graphic, she was visited by William Howard Hay, the developer of the diet, who asked her to create a recipe for British tastes.
Agnes White Tizard (July 10, 1895 – March 28, 1979) was an American home economist and nutrition consultant who worked for General Mills and was associated with the brand character Betty Crocker.
She became especially interested and competent in the field of nutrition, including related economic considerations.
Legacy and impact Wahlqvist is recognized for pioneering human nutrition as an academic discipline in Australia and for advancing cross-disciplinary approaches linking nutritional science with ecosystem and public health.
Louise Horne DCSG (12 May 1912 – 28 March 2021) was a Trinidad and Tobago politician and nutritionist who introduced the school meals programme.
Subsequently she worked as an agricultural officer in Tobago, a small island north of Trinidad, where she was the first and only woman in the ministry of agriculture, and where she met her husband, Finn Thilsted.
Wicks also topped both the YouTube charts as the number one trending and breakout creator of the year.
Her research was the first to show that nutritional deficiency in the host can permit a non-virulent virus to become virulent, indicting that the nutritional status of the host can drive infection.
Works Kitab al-Iqtisad "The book of moderation," this was a treatise on general therapy written in his youth for the Almoravid prince Ibrahim Yusuf ibn Tashfin.
By July 2020 the app had more than 4 million users, and the next month the project received grant funding from the Department of Health and Social Care.
Career Ryley was a dietitian at Albany General Hospital for a year, and superintendent of the dining halls at the University of Toronto for nine years.
Claiborne was the first man to supervise the food page at a major American newspaper and is credited with broadening The New York Times's coverage of new restaurants and innovative chefs.
She served as a member of the Commission on Education and Training, the International Union for Conservation of Nature & Natural Resources (IUCNNR), Switzerland and as Chairperson, Food & Nutrition Programme Committee, International Federation For Home Economics (IFHM), France.
Selected publications Black's Medical Dictionary (1906 and later editions) History of Scottish Medicine to 1860 (London, Baillière, Tindall & Cox, 1927) Diet in Health and Sickness (1933) Comrie, John D.
She later became the Head of the Department of Food and Nutrition and the Dean of the School of Home Economics (1947-1960).
Although an injury ruled her out of both matches, she recovered to participate in the 2014 UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship qualification series hosted by Ireland later that month.
Kabir received several awards from the food and television industries, including the Sheltech Award in 2009.
The Park Avenue Diet The Park Avenue Diet is a six-week weight loss program including meal plans and advice regarding exercise, hair, makeup, and relationships.
Chantal Yvette Kaboré-Zoungrana (née Kaboré) is a Burkinabé animal nutritionist and biosecurity expert.
As of 2022, she is a professor of nutrition at the University of Illinois Chicago (UIC) in the department of Kinesiology and Nutrition.
Méthodes analytiques et procédés pour reconnaître les fraudes, 1884 – The sophistication of wines: analytical methods and processes to recognize fraud.
One of those programmes was the development of the first television programme devoted to nutritional advice, called Creative Cooking.
A Journal of Daily Renewal: The Companion to Make the Connection, by Bob Greene and Oprah Winfrey, 1996; ISBN 0-7868-8215-8.
His first National Geographic article, in the July 1972 issue, described his two-week stay on an uninhabited island off the coast of Maine.
Clement in the 1981 American film The Bunker Bettina Redlich in the 2004 German film Downfall (Der Untergang) See also Adolf Hitler and vegetarianism List of people who disappeared References Footnotes Citations Sources Beevor, Antony (2002).
Stillman’s 14-Day Shape-Up Program (with Irwin Stillman, 1974) The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet (with Herman Tarnower, 1978) Delicious Quick-Trim Diet (1985) References External links Samm S.
Television In 2009, Kicinski started doing television cooking segments on the NBC-based WFLA-Tampa Bay's Daytime TV show.
In April 2013 she scored a hat-trick for the latter in their 4–3 FAI Schools Cup final win over Christ King.
Felice Nellie Jacka is an Australian academic, founder and president of the International Society for Nutritional Psychiatry Research.
Selected publications and reports by Klicka "Effects of Reduced Fat Intake on Serum Lipids in Healthy Young Men and Women at the U.S.
With the onset of World War II, Blaxter was conscripted and served with the 10th Field Regiment of the Royal Artillery from spring 1940 to the end of 1941, when he returned to NIRD.
In his book Healthy Aging, Weil looks at the process of growing older from a physical, social, and cross-cultural perspective, and in his book Why our Health Matters is focused on health care reform.
Research and publications Wahlqvist’s work encompasses clinical nutrition, public health, food systems, and ecohealth.
As part of this role Kaboré-Zoungrana announced the trialling of genetically modified cotton in association with Monsanto, an important crop for Burkina Faso, in 2011.
He worked as an assistant to Wilbur Olin Atwater in nutrition research at Wesleyan University (1898–1900).
For example, while Schuster served as the last Ambassador of Czechoslovakia to Canada from 1990 until 1992, Schusterová handled the diplomatic social duties expected of an ambassador's spouse.
Since the product contained Western medicine laxative ingredients and was not manufactured with the permission of the health authorities, it clearly violated the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act.
It was published in 2017 and has been seen as a reaction to and debunking of food faddism and unscientific advice about food promoted by advocates of "clean eating" and celebrities such as Gwyneth Paltrow.
Jung Da-yeon is a South Korean health influencer widely known as a Korean popular culture figure under the moniker "Auntie with a striking body" (Korean: 몸짱 아줌마; RR: momjjang ajumma).
A nutritionist, Valbonesi owns a healthy dining establishment, fitness center and has specialized in healthier diets and weight loss.
Selected publications The Erect Posture (Good Health, 1921) Fasting (The Medical Standard, 1922) Minor Maladies and Their Treatment (1923) The Science and Art of Living (1924) Middle Age and Old Age (1925) Obesity (1926) Minor Medical Mysteries (1935) See also Raw foodism == References ==
She then worked as a researcher at the Institut d'Economie Rurale in Bamako from 1990 to 1995 and at Texas A&M University in the U.S.
He was appointed full professor at the Faculty of Public Health at the University of São Paulo in 1989.
Selected publications His book on diabetes and its treatment, "Die zuckerkrankheit und ihre behandlung" (1895), was published over numerous editions.
Personal life She is the daughter of the artist William Geissler and the glass engraver Alison Geissler.
She appeared nude on both the cover of Time magazine for a health issue and the cover of New York magazine in 2011, the latter with a fake pregnant belly.
His column, "The Minimalist," ran in The New York Times for more than 13 years; the final column was published on January 26, 2011.
Selected works Anderson, Craig; Sally Rubenach; Cliona Ni Mhurchu; Michael Clark; Carol Spencer, and Adrian Winsor.
Madelyn Hirsch Fernstrom is an American scientist and broadcast journalist, She is also Professor of Psychiatry, Epidemiology and Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and a Board certified Nutrition Specialist.
Tayyem received the UNESCO-L'Oreal Fellowship for Young Women in Life Sciences and conducted postdoctoral research at UCSD Cancer Center at the University of California, San Diego, in the United States.
In 2021 she left her work to join the Schoenstatt Sisters of Mary, an international Catholic community of religious women, part of the international Schoenstatt movement.
Christine Envall (born 28 November 1972) is an Australian professional bodybuilder and nutritionist.
Christian diet programs are books and other name-brand products promoting weight-loss diets and other diets that the authors believe are consistent with Christian rules and values.
Tedstone is a Registered Public Health Nutritionist and a founding fellow of the Association for Nutrition, the voluntary regulator for nutritionists in the United Kingdom.
He was a singles semifinalist at the Cincinnati Open in 1908 and won singles titles at the state championships of Delaware (1905), and Connecticut (1907, 1908 and 1909).
While she was based at Nazi Boni University, Kaboré-Zoungrana investigated the effects of plant nutrition on livestock, including measuring the health of sheep consuming native plants Afzelia africana, Pterocarpus erinaceus or Khaya senegalensis when obtained during different seasons.
The Valley Center History Museum has a permanent exhibit about Tizard's life and work, where visitors can listen to a 1936 recording of Tizard speaking on the Cooking School of the Air radio program.
A growing number of dietitians work in the food industry, medical corporations, journalism, sports nutrition, corporate wellness programs, and other non-traditional dietetics settings.
One of the most extensive testimonies came from the couple's maid, Lilia Cárdenas, who had worked for them since 1995.
Awards and honours Rank Nutrition Named Lecture, Diabetes UK, 2017 University of Cambridge Impact Award, 2016 Senior Investigator, National Institute for Health Research, 2021 == References ==
Education Tedstone has a BSc and a PhD degree from the University of London, and conducted research into nutrition at the University of Oxford.
In 1985, she worked as dietetic internship director at Alton Ochsner Medical Foundation, also in New Orleans, LA, until 1993.
In 2019 Kaboré-Zoungrana also opened a new National Biosafety Laboratory on the Institut de l'Environnement et Recherches Agricoles campus in Ouagadougou, alongside Prof Alkassoum Maiga, Minister of Higher Education, Scientific Research and Innovation.
Dimbleby's great-grandmother, May Gaskell, was a "romantic confidante" of the artist Edward Burne-Jones, and a painting of her daughter Amy Gaskell by Burne-Jones is in the collection of Andrew Lloyd Webber.
Diehl suggested that most vegetarians are not really vegetarian because they consume dairy or egg products.
The President's Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition updated the President's Challenge Youth Fitness Test to reflect the latest science on kids' health and promote active, healthy lifestyles rather than athletic performance and competition.
The Feingold diet To treat or prevent hyperactivity, Feingold suggested a diet that was free of salicylates, artificial colors, artificial flavors, BHA, and BHT.
Rützler added that even in a blind trial she would have taken the product for meat rather than a soya copy.
The book condemned the food-habits of Australians, their meat-eating three times a day and excessive beer and tea consumption.
She was employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs from 1935 to 1944, then took a position with National Research Council until 1949, and from 1949 to 1954 at the University of New Mexico.
In 2013, Freedhoff criticized Health Check, a nutritional certification program operated by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, for having endorsed products with high sodium and/or sugar contents.
Education Mellanby was born in West Hartlepool, the son of a shipyard owner, and educated at Barnard Castle School and Emmanuel College, Cambridge, where he studied physiology.
Also in 1990, she was awarded honorary life membership of the New Zealand Dietetic Association / Dietitians New Zealand.
The Kindergarten system in the state was founded by that organisation, as was the local Girl Guides Association.
On May 23, 2007, Hasselbeck was involved in a heated on-air argument with co-host Rosie O'Donnell concerning the war in Iraq, which she supported and O'Donnell opposed.
In 2018, she was one of 18 French former Olympic and Paralympic athletes chosen to support the Paris bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics.
His father, John Dobell, was a wine merchant and his mother Julietta was a daughter of Samuel Thompson (1766–1837), a London political reformer.
Lahmann was influenced by the methods used by Vincenz Priessnitz (1799-1851) and Johann Schroth (1798-1856), both pioneers in the field of alternative medicine.
Having already been in Moscow as a hitting partner, she joined Alicia Molik, Samantha Stosur and Rennae Stubbs as the fourth team member after Nicole Pratt withdrew.
Little-White focused on outreach programmes to increase awareness, accessibility, and assistance for Jamaicans with disabilities in her later years.
She designed rations and their packaging for special contexts, including MREs and food for the Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo manned space missions, at the Army's Food Engineering Laboratory in Natick, Massachusetts.
She graduated from high school at the Nairobi International School (now known as International School of Kenya).
In 1993, she hosted the premiere of an educational video promoting the importance of a healthy diet for people living with HIV/AIDS.
Bodybuilding career Amateur career Envall is one of the few female bodybuilders with a career that spans more than two decades.
The author of over 400 published papers and other works, he served as editor of Nutrition Reviews from 1968 until 1978.
The diet recommended taking six bananas with 1000 cubic centimetres (4 glassfuls) of skimmed milk each day.
She is remembered for conducting ground-breaking research from the late 1940s into the Indigenous and First Nations peoples of Australia, Papua New Guinea and the Pacific region.
Tene, Ofra (2015), "'The New Immigrant Must Not Only Learn, He Must Also Forget': The making of Eretz Israeli Ashkenzi Cuisine", in Helman, Anat (ed.), Jews and Their Foodways, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0190265434 External links 1981 oral history interview with Dr.
They are looking to alternate sources of protein such as peas, beans, fish, poultry, cheese, eggs, milk, and milk products...
She carried out a year of research in nutritional epidemiology at the Geneva University Hospitals (French: Hôpitaux universitaires de Genève, HUG) in 1995.
In January 2012, Dukan suggested that the Baccalaureate exam, taken by 17-year-old children, should include one test which the children could pass simply by staying within appropriate weight limits.
Agatston is now the CEO of The Agatston Center, a multidisciplinary preventive practice in Miami with notable physicians Cindy Shaffer, MD, Oren Mechanic, MD, James Trice, MD, and Judi Woolger, MD.
He prescribed his patients individualized diets to help cure their ailments and also experimented with meat substitutes.
In March 2012 the French Ordre des médecins asserted that Dukan had violated the organization's medical code of practice by practising medicine as a business.
Claire Loewenfeld died on 20 August 1974, and is buried at St Lawrence's Church, Cholesbury, Buckinghamshire, near where she lived, alongside her husband Gunther Loewenfeld's cousins, Margaret Lowenfeld and Helena Wright née Lowenfeld.
Foreseeing the need to develop formal training programs and courses for dietitians and nutritionists in the Hadassah system after the establishment of the State of Israel, Bavly asked for and received a scholarship to return to Columbia University in 1946.
"Sleep timing is associated with diet and physical activity levels in 9-11-year-old children from Dunedin, New Zealand: the PEDALS study".
The book also inspired a film by Woody Allen, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (*But Were Afraid to Ask) (1972).
He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters since 1988 and was a Knight, First Class of the Order of St.
After the war, she worked as a neurosurgeon at the Central Institute of Neurosurgery of the USSR Academy of Sciences.
They live on beans, fruits, seeds, monkey nuts, yams, maize, cayenne peppers, palm oil and occasionally palm wine.
His research focuses on the molecular and clinical aspects of nutrition and cancer, particularly folate metabolism, colorectal and breast cancer prevention, and epigenetics.
Additionally, in the weeks before each Project Mercury launch, Finkelstein would manage the astronauts' diet at a specialized facility behind NASA Hangar S in Cape Canaveral, Florida.
She sat as a full member on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Delegation for relations with the Federative Republic of Brazil.
The Rural Outreach Africa works with Kenyan smallholder farmers to promote the growth of indigenous crops like sorghum, cassava, arrowroot, and jute mallow as a solution to ensuring food security and Nutrition.
However, Bunge rejected the entire idea of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies; he opposed the doctoral dissertation of Nikolai Lunin regarding Vitamin C and scurvy.
Jean-Michel Cohen (born 22 May 1956) is a French nutritionist and author, best known for the Parisian Diet.
Ashley Adamson is a British dietician, Professor of Public Health Nutrition at Newcastle University.
Works She was the author of many books and a large number of publications including: "A System for all Systems." Soviet Life, Issues 1–6, pg.30-33, 1989.
The significance of this work in shaping future nutrition policy is disputed, and the Dietary Goals for the United States asks Americans to, "Reduce the consumption of refined and other processed sugars by about 45 percent to account for about 10 percent of total energy intake".
The experts are socialite Tinsley Mortimer, hairdresser Joel Warren, fitness personality Bernadette Penotti, psychologist Stanley Krippner, makeup artist Laura Geller, business consultant Helene Hellsten, and chef Marie-Annick Courtier.
Widdowson became one of the first woman graduates of Imperial College of London after earning her Bachelor's degree in 1928 for chemistry.
In 1963, Calloway took a position as a professor of nutrition at the University of California, Berkeley; she retired in 1991 and stayed a professor emerita until she was too affected by Parkinson's disease to work.
Garland recalled, "When my brother, Cedric, and I looked at one of the first maps produced by the National Cancer Institute of colon cancer incidence rates in the United States, we both immediately noticed a pattern, a distinct North-South gradient in incidence.
Here she developed Newcastle's research activity in Public Health Nutrition, and was made a Personal Chair in 2010.
A portion of each sale goes to the Garden to Table charity, which teaches children the essential skills of gardening and cooking.
Her book, Family Circle Quick Menu Cookbook offers quick full meals that can be prepared in less than an hour.
Willett is the principal investigator of the second Nurses' Health Study (NHS2 or NHS II), a compilation of studies regarding the health of older women and their risk factors for major chronic diseases.
Pavy died on 19 September 1911 and was buried in a family vault on the western side of Highgate Cemetery.
In 1976, she married the retired Harvard anthropology professor Douglas Oliver and settled with him in Honolulu.
In November 2018, Gordon-Larsen was appointed the University of North Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health's Associate Dean for Research as she stepped down as chair of the NIH Kidney, Nutrition, Obesity and Diabetes study section.
In 1882 Dobell moved to Bournemouth, where in 1885 he became a consulting physician at the newly opened Mont Dore hydropathic sanatorium for patients with chest diseases.
This was based on observations of the difference in patterns of diseases between Western and traditional African societies.
De la Fuente de Diez Canseco, Luciana; Muñoz Jáuregui, Ana María; Valdizán Ayala, José; Gómez Mendoza, José; Portugal Melgar, Alan; Cárdenas Jarama, Martín; Cuya Alvarado, Shirley (September 2019).
As part of her academic growth, she has participated in congresses by a variety of institutions, including the Latin American Society of Nutrition, Chemical Society of Peru and Peruvian Society of Nutrition, of which she is a member.
Rorer was in charge of the Philadelphia Cooking School for 18 years and was able to reach 5,000 students through education during that time.
Brophy also sat as a substitute member on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and Delegation for relations with Afghanistan.
Brazil To obtain the Nutritionist title, one must have studied at a recognized university for four years plus a year practice (internship).
Helsing attended the University of Oslo, and subsequently wrote on and campaigned for natural breastfeeding.
The main criticism was taste, with Betty Friedan describing in her 1963 book The Feminine Mystique that women "ate a chalk called Metrecal".
He joined the Medical Department of King's College, gained the senior Medical Scholarship and qualified M.D from London University.
In 2013, DiSpirito hosted the Food Network reality show Restaurant Divided, where he went to struggling restaurants where the owners had two differing visions and then picked which concept would save the restaurant.
He was commissioned as a lieutenant in February 1916 rose to the rank of captain, serving in both France and Italy.
In 2017, she received the Ryley-Jeffs Memorial Award, the highest honour given to a Canadian dietitian.
Mosley described himself as "quite religious" until around the age of 20 and considered becoming a priest.
In June 1999, Hebranko was at his peak weight of 499 kg (1,100 lb), before again undergoing a massive weight loss and dropping to 207.5 kg (457 lb).
Genster oversaw the addition of chocolate, butterscotch and several other flavors, and created brand extensions such as Metrecal cookies and clam chowder, many of which were first tested on his own children.
These studies were important in examining the physical properties and energy values of common dietary foods so that calorie tables could be compiled.
She played a significant role in establishing the Jordanian Dietary guidelines for healthy individuals and patients with chronic diseases related to diet.
In 1985, in Chihuahua, he married María Luisa López-Collada Márquez de Richardson, the widow of American banker William B.
Aside from that, he also was among some of the first doctors in the world to emphasize the weight and significance of food allergy.
The book presents nutritional information and recommendations based on what was then the consensus of nutrition scientists, and is critical of many misconceptions about diet and nutrition, including ideas presented by guidelines from American organizations such as the USDA.
The home became a haven for Dolly, away from the crowds and fitted out with suitably sized furniture and bathroom fixtures.
Early life She was born in Maidstone, Kent, where her father was a director of the Lead Wool Company, a tool company.
Nonetheless, it was another decade before OSU conceded it should have called in outside investigators.
For the first office visit, Gosnell allegedly charged $115, but around December 2009 he allegedly increased the initial office visit fee to $150.
Investigation The murder investigation began in 1988 after Wood's ex-husband, whom she had told about the murders, went to the police.
During the legal proceedings, Agüero was incarcerated at the Bouwer prison in inner Córdoba, where she was isolated from other inmates to protect her from harm.
During the mental health assessment, psychiatrists found out that Nykopp-Koski is psychopathic and has an antisocial personality disorder, but she was deemed culpable for her actions.
Harold Shipman, the British doctor dubbed "Doctor Death" whose inquiry suggested he was responsible for 250 deaths.
Murders While working at Adventist Health Glendale in Glendale, California, Saldivar killed his patients by injecting a paralytic drug which led to respiratory and/or cardiac arrest.
Legal case 2010 raid Gosnell's clinic, the Women's Medical Society, was raided on February 18, 2010, under a search warrant by investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Pennsylvania State Police.
In the mid-seventies, she served as geriatrics manager within a Belgian public hospital in Wetteren.
Later murders From 2006 up until the autumn of 2010, Vila lamented to her colleagues that 'all the old women were dying on [her]'.
Media coverage and public reactions Gosnell's arrest has been the subject of much public comment and expressions of condemnation and shock by senior public figures of all parties.
She discovered in the process that she enjoyed playing God and holding the power of life and death in her hands.
The documentary was made by David Altrogge and won Best Short Film at the 2013 Justice Film Festival.
Wood was incarcerated in the minimum security Federal Correctional Institution, Tallahassee in Florida; she was released January 16, 2020 and is expected to live with relatives in South Carolina.
She was released on parole after only serving two years and later, on the condition that she move to New Zealand, received a full pardon from Governor Ernest Lister in 1916.
She worked as a nurse and was found guilty of killing five patients and the attempted murder of five more.
Both women labelled Jones as "evil" and "cold-blooded", while Connie Weeks, mother of victim Joshua Sawyer, read a statement in court, wishing that Jones "live a long and miserable life behind bars".
Eventually, Majors's coworkers began noticing a correlation between the spike in deaths and when he was on duty and joked about when the next patient would die.
See also Beverley Allitt, another nurse dubbed "The Angel of Death" who was responsible for killing patients.
Efren Saldivar (born September 30, 1969) is an American serial killer who murdered patients while working as a respiratory therapist at Adventist Health Glendale, named at that time Glendale Adventist Medical Center in Glendale, California.
Maria Gruber, Irene Leidolf, Stephanija Meyer, and Waltraud Wagner were four Austrian women who worked as nurse's aides at the Geriatriezentrum am Wienerwald in Lainz, Vienna, and who murdered scores of patients between 1983 and 1989.
Tomlinson, began a hearing in February 2011 to look into the failure of the Pennsylvania Department of State — which is responsible for licensing doctors — to provide any oversight of Gosnell's activities.
Wilson claimed that the acid had been mistakenly given to her by the pharmacist who prepared the medicine.
See also List of serial killers in the United States List of serial killers active in the 2020s == References ==
Police during her house search found books about bulimia, anorexia nervosa, death and her most read novels are Invisible Women by Fabiola De Clercq, Sprecata by Marya Hornbacher, Death is a friend by Marie de Hennezel, and above all Veronika Decides To Die by Paulo Coelho.
Described as kind and without any prior criminal history, on 27 June 2013, a tragedy occurred that changed her life: the death of her mother from leukaemia.
This was discovered by the medical director of the garrison, who informed the Public Prosecutor's Office.
Malèvre's arrest raised a national debate over the case itself as well as over the controversial topic of euthanasia in France.
As it was not supposed to do that, it was examined further, with the doctors discovering that it had been mixed with diamitol.
The Besançon poisonings was a French legal case resulting in the conviction of French anesthesiologist Frédéric Péchier to a life sentence for intentionally poisoning 30 patients and killing 12.
In 2008, the Justice Ministry in Austria announced that it would release Wagner and Leidolf from prison due to good behaviour.
Some of the more famous were Mirza Mohammad Farrokhi Yazdi, Abdolhossein Teymourtash, Sardar As'ad and his brother Khānbābā Khān As'ad, Taghi Arani, and Ayatollah Mirza Mohammad Najafi Khorasani (Ayatollah Aghazadeh).
See also Hayato Imai, another nurse who killed patients in the same region, on death row References External links Court proceedings (in Japanese)
Taking prior convictions into account, the court determined Högel's "severe gravity of guilt", a German legal term which significantly increases the respective sentence's severity and precludes a chance of early release after serving a minimum of 15 years.
The judge, speaking directly to Mays, stated, "Several times your counsels made the point that you shouldn't be considered a monster.
The Kanagawa Prefectural Police have designated this as the Oguchi Hospital Inpatient Murder Case, while the Kanagawa Shimbun named it the Oguchi Hospital Continuous Drip Murder Case.
In April 2013, 71 other Members of Congress joined Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn in a letter condemning the media "blackout" on the Gosnell trial.
Prosecutors said Gilbert threatened the life of at least one person verbally and physically in July 1996.
She was charged with three counts of criminal damage with intent to endanger life, three counts of criminal damage being reckless as to whether life was being endangered, and one charge of theft.
The principal French association supporting the right to die immediately dropped its support for Malèvre.
The only case for which any reports were produced was that of Semika Shaw, a 22-year-old, who died at the University of Pennsylvania hospital as a result of bleeding and sepsis caused by a botched procedure by Gosnell.
In all, Angelo was suspected of poisoning at least 35 people at the hospital while working there for seven months, though the medical examiner was unable to conclusively attribute the deaths to the injections.
On April 4, 1969, after Thomas had passed out, Velma and their children left the house; when they returned, they found the house burned and Thomas dead.
Marie Fikáčková (9 September 1936 – 13 April 1961) was a Czech suspected serial killer, convicted for the killing of two newborn babies in Sušice in 1960.
In August 1979, Hansson was sentenced to closed psychiatric treatment, where he remained until 1994.
Her former lawyer Harald Schmidt was jailed for seven years for being an accomplice to grievous bodily harm and for forging the will of Alois Pichler.
Four years later, she was found guilty of murdering her 64-year-old husband Friedrick Doecker and 84-year-old female neighbour Franziska Koeberl.
The significance of the evidence that the defendants had been in the room shortly before was that the injections of Pavulon, according to the prosecution's experts, must have been administered only minutes before the victims had suffered paralysis and stopped breathing.
Holland called an ambulance and Jones was hospitalized, with doctors performing a stomach pumping to clean her system of the drug.
See also Anders Hansson, a nursing aide who committed similar murders at a nursing home in Malmö, Sweden, during roughly the same time.
However, they rebuked the claims that her schizophrenia affected her judgment, finding that she was legally sane at the time when she committed the murders.
When he suspected his lover and roommate Carl Hoeweler of infidelity, he poisoned Hoeweler's food with arsenic so he would be too ill to leave their apartment.
His charges included 16 counts of murder, 12 counts of manslaughter and one count of killing on request.
At Stepping Hill it was suspected that, due to the increased levels of insulin in the patients' bloodstreams, they quickly became hypoglycemic and three confirmed fatalities occurred.
With 22 claimed victims between 1995 and 2001, he is the most prolific serial killer in Swiss criminal history.
According to her testimony, Joyner wanted attention, as she claimed that a few days before his arrest, he had contacted her, claiming that he would soon become famous and be written about in the media.
Investigation Between March and June 2022, unusually high infant mortality rates occurred at a neonatal nursing unit in the Ramón Castillo Neonatal Hospital in Córdoba, Argentina.
Murders Petrov committed his first murder on 2 February 1999 during his thirtieth robbery, when he was interrupted by the daughter of an anaesthetised patient who returned home while he was stealing.
Her second job came as an employee of the South Texas Medical Center, where she worked in the obstetric unit.
A forensic psychological evaluation determined that Hansen suffered from histrionic personality disorder.
Harvey became a person of interest when investigators learned he had been forced to resign from the Cincinnati VA hospital after he was caught stealing body parts for occult rituals.
Sisák was convicted as an accomplice in her husband's murder and sentenced to 15 years imprisonment.
However, Mark Sochaski, an analytical chemist and bioterrorism expert, was developing a test for measuring chlorine exposure by measuring the presence of chlorotyrosine, an amino acid formed from exposure to chlorinating agents such as bleach.
In the course of one month up to fifteen children are thought to have been targeted, all between the ages of one and ten.
In January 1998, Gilbert stood trial for calling in a bomb threat to the Northampton VAMC to retaliate against coworkers and former boyfriend James Perrault (who also worked at the hospital) for their participation in the investigation.
Police selected 20 bodies to exhume out of a total of 1,050 patients who had died at Glendale Adventist during Saldivar's shifts.
His former partner said after his conviction that Norris had once hit him during an argument, bruising his head and once threw a bottle at him, which caused him to break up with Norris.
Early life Beverly Gail Allitt was born on 4 October 1968 and grew up in the village of Corby Glen near the town of Grantham.
In September 2019, he was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison after pleading guilty to killing Harvey.
Alpine Manor has since gone out of business, but the building now houses a nursing home called "Sanctuary at Saint Mary's".
The length and complexity of the trial meant that judge Mr Justice Griffith Williams took five days to read out his 571-page summing-up.
This case is considered by the prosecution to be the key piece of evidence in the case, but the accused continues to dispute it, citing outside manipulation.
The five were accused of having prior knowledge of the "Cazzaniga protocol" and intentionally hampering investigations by not reporting the suspicious deaths to the authorities.
Senior legal counsel Kenneth Brody insisted that the department had no legal obligation to monitor abortion clinics, even though it exercised such a duty until the Ridge administration, and exercised it again as soon as Gosnell became big news.
Hazzard claimed that the deceased had succumbed to undisclosed or hitherto undiagnosed illnesses such as cancer or cirrhosis.
Evidence of colchicine poisoning was given by toxicologist Alfred Swaine Taylor, the defence being that the poison could not be reliably detected after so long.
In popular culture Geen's case has been the subject of multiple television programmes: A series 1 episode of the series Nurses Who Kill aired in 2016 which focused on Geen's crimes.
On the same day, the Yokohama District Public Prosecutor's Office announces that it will take up the case.
They also conducted an investigation in the United States and Canada and learned about their suspect's history, including the conviction for a murder by poison in 1881.
The judge described Brega Massone as "cruel, malevolent and lacking the slightest sense of human pity".
Investigation An autopsy revealed high levels of arsenic in Obendoerfer's body, which aroused police suspicions.
Emergency Medical Services had been called to the clinic 30 times in April, during the previous 15 months there had only been two such calls.
Murders Hahn allegedly began poisoning and robbing elderly men in Cincinnati's German community to support her gambling habit.
Wood testified that the couple turned the selection of victims into a game, first trying to choose their victims by their initials to spell M-U-R-D-E-R.
More seriously than this, the three nuns disclosed that Bombeek had murdered Maria van der Gunst (87), an elderly woman who suffered from diabetes and was killed through an insulin overdose which induced a severe hypoglycemia attack.
Cardozo said that he had presented his resignation with the goal of helping clarify and serve justice in the case.
Paramedic Karol Banaś was sentenced to 25 years imprisonment for the "particularly cruel" (szczególnie okrutne) murder of Ludmiła Ś.
December 2001 – Ex-employee Marcella Choung gave what a grand jury would later call "a detailed written complaint" to the Pennsylvania Department of State, one which she followed up with an interview in March 2002.
As a nurse in hospital Havlíčkův Brod, 100 kilometres (62 mi) southeast of Prague, he murdered seven patients by lethal injection, and attempted to kill 10 others between May and December, 2006.
Gerolamo Kuchich, 73, from Yugoslavia and visiting Dix Hills, was injected with a non-fatal dose of Pavulon on October 11, 1987.
Graham maintained her innocence, testifying that the alleged murders were part of an elaborate "mind game" by Wood.
Maria Catherina van der Linden-Swanenburg (9 September 1839 – 11 April 1915) was a Dutch serial killer who murdered at least 27 people and was suspected of killing more than 90 people.
2015 trial and confession From January 2014 onward, the Oldenburg district attorney's office initiated another investigation into the incidents at the Delmenhorst Clinic.
These leaks stated that the terminally ill patients had neither wanted nor asked her to aid in their suicides.
Geen was formally accused of two murders and of inflicting grievous bodily harm with intent upon 16 patients.
After a deliberation lasting only 12 minutes, the jury found him guilty of all counts, and Justice Henry Hawkins sentenced him to death.
Wood also portrayed Graham as being sexually, physically and emotionally dominant in their relationship.
He attempted to rationalize this by claiming that he had done it while the patient was either restless or in pain, and that he did not know what to do as there were supposedly no doctors around, attempting to portray himself as the victim.
Despite these confessions and Feltner being questioned by police, no charges were brought due to a lack of evidence.
After this, Petrov's modus operandi changed: he began to use a lethal mix of a variety of different drugs to inject into his victims instead of an anaesthetic so that the victim would die, and so the police would think that the killer had little medical knowledge.
He claimed that his own studies had shown that up to 1 in 10 of hypoglycaemia episodes in elderly people were caused naturally.
He received his medical degree in December 1921 and relocated to Villeneuve-sur-Yonne, where he received payment for his services both from the patients and from government medical assistance funds.
However, she was suspected of murdering more than thirty of that facility's elderly residents during a two-year span, between 1976 and 1978.
In the court ruling, it was deemed that the suspect's confession was very unlikely to have been forced, and was deemed credible.
Petrov had been married twice and has three children, one from his first marriage and two from his second marriage.
The complaint was that Gosnell had been unable to complete an abortion, but then apparently failed or refused to call paramedics or other clinical emergency personnel after the patient had needed help.
After some time in this role, Bombeek was officially accused of killing three patients – due to allegations that each was too noisy at night.
In 1976, Barfield began caring for the elderly, working for Montgomery and Dollie Edwards in Lumberton.
He had a drinking problem, and his wife was disturbed by his unusual behavior and his abuse of the family dogs.
The GMC charged six doctors who signed cremation forms for Shipman's victims with misconduct on the grounds that they should have noticed the pattern between Shipman's home visits and his patients' deaths; they were all found not guilty.
On 29 March 2014, Chua was charged with the murders of Tracey Arden, Arnold Lancaster and Alfred Derek Weaver, and 31 other offences including grievous bodily harm and attempted poisoning.
On February 16, 2016, the Kanagawa Prefectural Police arrested 23-year-old Hayato Imai, a former employee, on murder charges.
In popular culture Horror writer Stephen King reportedly based Annie Wilkes, the antagonist of his novel Misery, on Jones, with many fans finding similarities between Wilkes and Jones.
Less than a month after his conviction, on 15 November, Cream was hanged at Newgate Prison by James Billington.
The Malmö Östra hospital murders were a Swedish case of serial senicide committed by the 18-year-old Anders Hansson at a hospital in Malmö between October 1978 and January 1979.
See also List of homicides in Michigan List of serial killers in the United States References Resources Buhk, T.T.
He was arrested after Malla Yassin was arrested in early 2006, and confessed to being the leader of an insurgent cell that included Louay.
Eight, including Gosnell's wife, subsequently pleaded guilty, most of whom would testify against Gosnell, and three of these pleaded guilty to third-degree murder, carrying a 20- to 40-year term.
In 2003, after Shipman had been convicted, a paper by statistician David Spiegelhalter and others found that Shipman's mortality rates had been broadly in line with national rates between 1988 and 1994, and started increasing in 1995.
Statistics only made up a minor part of the evidence against Geen, his conviction being mainly based on the direct evidence against him that the CCRC had taken note of when turning down the application, such as the murder weapon found in his pocket full of the drugs used in the attacks.
But when medical examination failed to reveal physical evidence of homicide, not entirely unusual in a smothering case, the county medical examiner nevertheless ruled the deaths homicides, basing it on the interviews Wood had given to the police.
After Majors started working at the facility, however, the rate skyrocketed to more than 100 per year, with nearly one out of every three patients admitted to the hospital dying.
Charges were only brought against Davis for four deaths due to the difficulty in proving the others.
He was committed to hospital in 1958 by his former wife, but released after less than three months of therapy.
Though Massachusetts does not have capital punishment at the state level, her crimes were committed on federal property and thus tried in federal court and subject to the federal death penalty.
They committed their crimes in the Alpine Manor nursing home, where they both worked as nurse's aides.
However, Wood's accounts and her self-portrayal as Graham's pawn were later brought into serious question by award-winning journalist Lowell Cauffiel in his 1992 true crime book, Forever and Five Days.
The state police medical team noticed several patients' heart patterns widening around the time that Majors was on duty.
Prosecutors sought the death penalty, but on April 2, 2012, Saenz was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for the five murders, plus three consecutive 20-year sentences, totalling sixty years, for aggravated assault.
These drugs could have included morphine and suxamethonium chloride as they were found in his locker with fresh and used syringes.
Norris admitted predicting the time of Hall's death to his colleague but said it was because he had a "black sense of humour".
Sentencing On 14 December 2007, Caleffi was sentenced to serve 20 years of imprisonment for five murders and two attempted murders in San Vittore Prison causing anger among the families of the victims.
The FBI obtained a warrant charging Swango with using fraudulent credentials to gain entry to a Veterans Affairs hospital.
Staff were unable to revive her (emergency medications were not used and the defibrillator was not working), and paramedics were unable to revive her after gaining access, in part because they were deceived by staff as to what had happened and the drugs and dosages responsible.
It was soon revealed that several nurses at Drake had raised concerns with administrators upon noticing a spike in deaths while Harvey was employed there, but they had been ordered to keep quiet.
She induced cardiac arrest in patients by injecting their intravenous therapy bags with lethal doses of epinephrine, commonly known as adrenaline, which is an untraceable heart stimulant.
Murders, arrest, and trial From 2017 to 2018, multiple patients experienced unexplained complications after heart surgeries while in recovery.
Despite the fact that his post was in the minor injuries unit at the hospital, he would often leave his post without authority to work in the emergency department.
In some cases, as time goes on, this behavior escalates to encompass the healthy and the easily treated.
See also Serial killers with health related professions List of serial killers by number of victims References External links BBC news entry.
Bertha Alice Williams Graham Gifford (October 30, 1871 – August 20, 1951) was a farmwife in rural Catawissa, Missouri during the early 1900s who was accused of murdering three members of the local community and suspected in 15 additional deaths.
Mays offered no motive but claimed to be taking medication for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
He served his sentence at Indiana State Prison in Michigan City, where he died of heart failure on September 24, 2017.
Since Mays' guilty pleas, the federal government has settled civil lawsuits with the families of 10 victims.
The owner of Atlantic Women's Services, Leroy Brinkley, also owned Delta Clinic of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and facilitated the hiring of staff from there for Gosnell's operation in Philadelphia.
Early life Anna Hahn was the youngest of twelve children though five of her siblings had died by the time Anna was born.
He was also suspected of four attempted murders; a 1-year-old girl on 2 February 2000, an 11-year-old girl on 31 October 2000, a four-year-old boy on 13 November 2000 and a 45-year-old man on 24 November 2000.
There, she confessed to CAMH staff about killing or attempting to kill her patients, leading to CAMH notifying the College of Nurses of Ontario (CNO) and the Toronto Police Service.
Crimes Between 2004 and 2009 Nykopp-Koski worked at a range of hospitals, care homes and patients' homes.
By 2009, it had been taken over by Union Hospital, based in Terre Haute, and renamed Union Hospital Clinton.
Toppan insisted upon her own sanity in court, claiming that she could not be insane if she knew what she was doing and knew that it was wrong, but nonetheless she was declared insane and committed.
Hahn's scandalized family sent her to the United States in 1929, while her son remained with them in Bavaria.
The hospital then claimed that he had “purposely filed a frivolous lawsuit” even though the case had “no merit.” In March 2010, the Lehigh County jury dismissed St.
According to them, there was no feasible evidence demonstrating that Hayato was responsible for the deaths, and it couldn't be ruled out that they were accidents or suicides.
Kareema Cross, who testified at the state trial she had seen at least ten babies breathe after being aborted who were then killed, pleaded guilty to federal drug charges over improper distribution of pain medicine from Gosnell's clinic.
ISBN 978-1443453325 Further reading Bloomfield, Jeffrey: "Gallows Humor: The Alleged Ripper Confession of Dr.
The following year, Barfield was convicted of seven counts of writing bad checks and sentenced to six months in prison, but was released after serving three months.
She was also known as "The Ogress of Colonia Roma," "The Female Ripper of Colonia Roma" and "The Human Crusher of Little Angels." Early life She was born in 1890 in Cerro Azul, Veracruz to a mother who was not affectionate towards her.
However, after Majors began his public relations offensive, several relatives of patients who died at VCH called the state police to report suspicious behavior on Majors's part before their loved ones' deaths.
When evidence was found of Amy sending her patients to the drugstore to buy quantities of arsenic, the police were able to arrest and convict her.
Several of the families sued the owners of Alpine Manor for hiring "dangerous and unbalanced employees".
Both defendants were recent immigrants to the United States, and the trial was marred by accusations of racism.
Their case is featured in the fifth episode, titled "Michigan Wolverines", of the fifth season of the show Deadly Sins.
Crimes The two women met at the Alpine Manor nursing home shortly after Graham had moved to Michigan from Texas.
Rebecca Leighton On 20 July 2011, GMP confirmed that they had arrested a 27-year-old nurse – Rebecca Jane Leighton, who worked at the hospital in wards A1 and A3 – in connection with the murder inquiry.
Irene Becker (born 1952) is a German nurse, and serial killer, who killed at least 5 people by administering them drugs while working at the Charité clinic.
I can only say I’m sorry for the pain I caused them and my family." In addition to her sentence, Mays was ordered to pay $172,624.96 to the victims' families, the VA Hospital, Medicare, and insurance companies.
The chief prosecutor at his trial, Olaf Jakhelln described Nesset as "an ambitious man, who wanted complete control over life and death [of his victims]." Death Nesset died at a nursing home on 2 December 2025, at the age of 89.
Fearing a possible contamination, all IV bags on the building's premises were checked, leading to the discovery that one of the bags administered to 88-year-old Nobuo Yamaki, a patient who had died two days prior had been tampered with.
In a psychiatric hospital in Fleury-les-Aubrais, Petiot was again diagnosed with various mental illnesses but was returned to the front in June 1918.
The details of the murders came almost entirely from accounts to criminal justice authorities by Wood, whose murder charges were reduced by a plea agreement so she could testify against Graham in Graham's trial for first-degree murder.
The first two victims she was charged with murdering were James Bartoe, 55, and Joseph Campbell, 83.
According to the criminal code of the canton of Geneva, the death penalty could be imposed for these crimes.
For his first application his defence team again recruited mathematical experts who stated that a statistical cluster of respiratory arrests was not unusual, but the miscarriage of justice watchdog was likewise unconvinced and rejected his application.
See also List of French serial killers List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
(Strosser, 1975) Investigators found that the nurse Filipina Narciso had been on duty in the relevant ward during every poisoning, and she was identified by a patient as the nurse who had injected something into his IV just before his breathing suddenly stopped.
A neonatal nurse, Fikáčková claimed to have killed at least ten newborns between 1957 and 1960, and was executed by hanging in 1961.
Marie Jeanneret (13 January 1836 – 4 April 1884) was a Swiss serial killer who murdered at least six people.
A few days later, Gerzsány came across Palinkás again, offering to give her a stronger poison for an additional six korona, to which the latter agreed.
See also List of serial killers in the United Kingdom List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
Crucial evidence came from a relative of the victims, who testified that one of the defendants had been in the room and doing something to the bedside equipment just before he suddenly stopped breathing.
In 1989, he was convicted of murdering several of his patients and sentenced to 50-years-to-life in prison.
On her cremation form, Adams stated that "as far as I am aware" he had no pecuniary interest in the death, thereby avoiding the necessity of a post-mortem.
Public opinion controversy France disallows euthanasia, unlike its neighbours, Belgium and the Netherlands.
On 15 May 2008 he was found guilty by judge Valéria Caldi on four counts of murder and four counts of attempted murder.
District Judge Thomas Kleeh had recommended that Mays be placed at Federal Medical Center, Carswell, in Fort Worth, Texas, so that she could receive mental health treatment there; the BOP ultimately assigned her to Aliceville.
During the sentencing, Mays, in tears, gave a brief statement: "There’s no words I can say that can offer the families any comfort.
One man, originally slated to be the lead witness for the prosecution, referred to Perez and Narciso as "slant-eyed bitches" and asserted that there was a nationwide conspiracy of Filipino nurses to murder veterans.
Amy was once again financially secure because during their short marriage her new husband had drawn up a will which left his entire estate to her.
Barfield's execution raised some political controversies when Governor Jim Hunt, who was challenging incumbent Jesse Helms for his U.S.
The reason for the change was, in particular, a forensic and evidence-specific detail: although it was found that Hansen's medical abuse on patients did not occur "in treatment or pain relievers by mistake", the technical evidence was not strong enough to confirm the verdict.
When questioned about the cases Norris said "he seemed to have been unlucky over the last 12 months." The first three incidents occurred at Leeds General Infirmary.
When questioned by police, Nesset initially confessed to the murders of 27 patients, whom he claimed to have killed by injecting them with suxamethonium chloride, a drug to paralyze muscles.
The series is based on the book of the same name written by the Danish journalist Kristian Corfixen.
He supposedly developed secret weapons that killed Germans without leaving forensic evidence, planted booby traps all over Paris, had high-level meetings with Allied commanders, and worked with a (nonexistent) group of Spanish anti-fascists.
The same corroded suction tubing used for abortions was the only tubing available for oral airways if assistance for breathing was needed… [F]etal remains [were] haphazardly stored throughout the clinic– in bags, milk jugs, orange juice cartons, and even in cat-food containers...
Letter confessed to some of the killings but insisted that he had acted out of sympathy and a desire to end the suffering of sick patients.
On May 11, 2021, Mays was sentenced to seven consecutive life sentences, plus 20 years, during a three-hour-long hearing at the United States District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia in Clarksburg by U.S.
According to police, Louay administered anti-coagulants to pro-Coalition forces brought into the hospital for treatment, to excaberate their bleeding and causing a number of deaths.
Semi-conscious women scheduled for abortions were moaning in the waiting room or the recovery room, where they sat on dirty recliners covered with blood-stained blankets.
John William Israel (4 July 1850 – 30 May 1926) was Commonwealth Auditor-General for the Australian Government between 1902 and 1926.
He was a Labor member for Yerrabi in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly from July 2019 to October 2020.
References Commission report: Eliminating Nuclear Threats – A Practical Agenda for Global Policymakers Nuclear Terms Handbook.
In 1948, when there was a departmental reorganization, his position was reverted to first assistant secretary.
Edgar Charles Johnston, DFC (30 April 1896 – 22 May 1988) was an Australian fighter pilot and ace of the First World War and, later, a leading member in civil aviation in Australia.
Biography Early life and education John Gerald Anderson was born on 12 February 1836 in Orphir, a parish in Orkney, Scotland.
It reported that trends emerging before the pandemic - higher levels of unemployment, poverty and psychological distress - have been amplified and "could fracture Australian society".
However, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd stated that neither he nor his office played any part in Bryce's decision.
The Special Operations Command (SOCOMD) is an Australian Defence Force command that was established on 5 May 2003 to unite all of the Australian Army's special forces units and by 2008 was fully operational.
The Commissioner is appointed by the Australian Government to review employees’ concerns about matters affecting employment, such as recruitment, discipline (misconduct) and performance management, and also provides recruitment and inquiry services to agencies.
Structure The department was an Australian Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Education, Susan Ryan.
The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was an Australian government department that existed between December 1975 and July 1987.
The department's first Minister, Peter Howson, was not keen on the job, reportedly calling the portfolio "trees, boongs and poofters".
Education O'Connell attended Queen's University Belfast, where he studied to attain a Bachelor of Arts (with first class honours) and his doctorate.
It comprised the whole of the cadastral Hundreds of Angas, Anna, Bagot, Forster, Fisher, Jellicoe, Nildottie, Ridley, Skurray, and parts of the Hundreds of Dutton and Bowhill.
On 16 February 2016, the court ruled Canada "did not have to change its laws nor its Constitution for the British royal succession rules to be amended and effective".
The Commissioner of Corrective Services is a statutory office-holder in the State of New South Wales, Australia, with responsibility for the State's prison, parole and community corrections systems.
Preparations for the Duke's visit began in April 1946, when Rockhampton mayor Henry Jeffries announced that the Duke, who was also serving as the 11th Governor-General of Australia, would visit Rockhampton with his wife.
While 45% of companies disclosed how they were prioritising selected SDGs, "very few companies link business goals and targets with the SDGs which makes assessing real progress towards achieving them difficult to determine".
On 27 February 2016, Cobb announced that he was retiring from politics and would not re-contest the Division of Calare in the 2016 Australian federal election.
Due to the state's population growth and growing use of the roads for mining in Australia many more projects are being planned and implemented across Queensland.
He was a member of the Opposition Shadow Ministry from 1992 to 1996, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Social Security in 1996, Assistant Treasurer from 1996 to 2001, and Minister for the Arts and Sport from November 2001 to January 2007.
Eyre Peninsula In 1930, Robert Bedford and other wheatgrowers proposed that the Eyre Peninsula become a separate state from South Australia.
It was set up in 1994 in the then Department of Human Services and Health to give a greater focus on the health needs of Indigenous Australians in mainstream health programs.
Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex-husbands.
Following an amalgamation of departments in 1982, Schubert's responsibilities increased to administrating state affairs in the Premier's Department during a time when the National Party governed Queensland, led by Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen.
Translations included early Russian poets by Rosemary Dobson and David Campbell, Laurence Springarn's translations from Portuguese and Mark Scrivener's translations of German classics.
These constitutions are separate from the Australian Constitution, which governs the federal government of Australia and is also the relevant constitutional document for each of Australia's territories.
The administrative unit does not have jurisdiction over the uninhabited Ashmore and Cartier Islands and Heard Island and McDonald Islands, despite these territories lying within the Indian Ocean.
Divorce No-fault divorce Australia has no-fault divorce with the only ground for divorce being a claim of an irretrievable breakdown of marriage, evidenced by a twelve-month separation.
As a Company Director, Hielscher had considerable experience at Board level and had been associated with a number of public and private sector Boards.
Publication of unredacted version By comparing the redacted and unredacted copies it was possible to identify the censored sections of the report.
Her father arrived in Australia in 1953 to work at the Port Kembla steelworks, and was joined by his future wife six years later.
Statistics At 30 June 2015, there were 243,163 staff (203,348.50 full-time equivalent) employees in 20 Queensland Government departments and 15 other organisations included for statistical purposes.
Henderson was promoted to cabinet in 2001 after Labor won a Territory election for the first time in 2001.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1886 election out of parts of the seats of George Town, Selby and Fingal, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
In 1862 he was employed there as Assistant Emigration Officer and promoted to Emigration Officer in 1863.
The act became law on 14 December 1909, the day after the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 had been passed by the Commonwealth government.
History It was established in 1977 as the District Council of Murray Bridge, with the amalgamation of the Corporate Town of Murray Bridge and the surrounding District Council of Mobilong.
The by-election was triggered by the resignation of CLP Chief Minister Paul Everingham to seek election to the Federal House of Representatives.
This means that whilst one NSW senator represents 682,000 people, one NT senator would represent approximately 21,000 people.
If the application is made by one spouse (called a "sole application"), the divorce documents must be served on the other spouse, at least 28 days before the court hearing if the spouse is in Australia or 42 days if overseas.
He began evacuating women and children in December 1941, following the attack on Pearl Harbor, and in January 1942 sought permission from the Australian government to evacuate all white civilians from the territory.
Critics argued that applying TFES to low-value commodities might discourage the development of better uses for residues, raising concerns about the long-term financial viability of these practices.
Christie commenced his career as cadet engineer with the Department of Railways New South Wales, becoming general manager of operations of the Public Transport Commission in August 1979, then deputy chief executive of the State Rail Authority in July 1980.
He played for the All Australian Universities (1969) and All Australian Amateurs (1970) football teams and was picked in the opening Richmond Australian Football League side of 1972.
The early council meetings were held at a house in the riverside township of Caurnamont until a council chamber was built at Walker's Flat in 1896.
He was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Council and Legislative Council of Papua and New Guinea.
In March 1903 Tait was appointed Chairman of Commissioners of the Victorian Railways, Australia with a salary of £3000 per annum.
The current elected councillors as of November 2022 are as follows: References External links Official website
Arltarlpilta Community came under the Local Government Act on 26 September 1997, combining the Atitjere, Mount Eaglebeak, Foxalls Wells, Irrelirre and Unpayekerke communities.
These proposed colonies were geometric divisions of the continent, and did not take into account soil fertility, aridity or population.
Kalisch apologised on behalf of the Bureau for the outage, stating that the site had been subject to a "malicious" denial-of-service attack and had been taken down to prevent exfiltration of census data.
Galvin joined the Australian Public Service in 1950, with a personnel cadetship that enabled him to obtain an arts degree from the University of Adelaide.
There was a swing against the Liberals of 7.9 points, but Hawke won the seat with 61.6 per cent of the vote on a two-party-preferred basis.
Pearce was elected to the House of Representatives at the 2001 Aston by-election, retaining the seat for the Liberal Party following the death of incumbent MP Peter Nugent.
He continued in the top job when the department was abolished and replaced with the Department of Industry, Technology and Regional Development in March 1993.
In those territories with an Administrator, the Administrator can be considered the indirect representative of the King in the territory.
ROKA soldiers poured through a gap under protective covering fire from Australians who were holding their section of the line despite heavy pressure.
He was wounded in action by enemy shelling in December, but was able to rejoin his unit in Egypt the following month.
After graduating from the University of Sydney with an agricultural science degree, he moved to the Territory of New Guinea in 1936 to become an Agricultural Officer.
It was then recreated ahead of the 1903 election, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
The Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (DAFF) is a department of the Australian Government that was created on 1 July 2022.
History The council was established in 1883 from a western portion of the District Council of Echunga and an eastern portion of the District Council of Mitcham.
The act selected the Yass-Queanbeyan region as the site for Canberra, the new capital city of Australia.
The seat was created ahead of the Assembly's first election held in 1856, and was abolished at the 1903 election, when it was merged with neighbouring Richmond into the new district of Monmouth.
It is modelled on the equivalent commands in the United States and British military forces, and is led by a major general as Special Operations Commander Australia (SOCAUST).
The bill lapsed with the prorogation of Parliament for the 2013 Australian federal election and has not been reintroduced.
The AusInfo letter, said that the "Attorney-General's Department wants all copies recalled" and asked that copies of the report be returned to AusInfo.
References National Archives of Australia Documenting Democracy - Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 Seat of Government Acceptance Act, Austlii
The court may decline to make any orders, leaving the legal and equitable interests of the parties as they were.
Although based in Canberra, the AMC was able to conduct trials anywhere in Australian territories and overseas in operational areas where Australian forces were serving.
He stayed at the Communications Department in the Secretary role as its functions expanded, first becoming the Department of Communications and the Arts in 1994, and later the Department of Communications, Information Technology and the Arts in 1998.
The organisation is owned by the Australian Institute of Petroleum and is financed by nine participating oil companies and other industry-related companies.
This book was shortlisted for the 2014 ACT Book of the Year Award and won the 2014 ACT Writing and Publishing Awards: Poetry Book Category.
The department existed between November 1976 and November 1980, operating under the Fraser government.
A vote of 94 was required, so that if at least 94 of the 95 Labor parliamentarians supported the bills, each would be passed.
The two departments merged in 1921 to form the second Department of Defence, regarded as a separate body.
David Miller (1857 – 1934) was a senior Australian Commonwealth public servant, appointed in the year of Federation to head the Department of Home Affairs.
In Queensland, plurality block voting (also referred to as first-past-the-post by the Electoral Commission) is used.
List of constitutions The following is a list of the current constitutions of the six states of Australia.
Joseph Lyons (1932–1939) Frank Forde (1945); born to Irish Catholic parents, Forde was educated at Christian Brothers' school in Toowoomba.
The electoral district of Brighton was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
He worked as a barrister and solicitor for the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, and as a senior policy adviser and legal officer for the Attorney-General's department, the Department of Transport and Regional Services, and the Australian Antarctic Division.
Originally it was understood by the mainstream population as a need for acceptance that many members of the Australian community originally came from different cultures and still had ties to it.
He gave evidence before a Royal Commission on the migration of troublesome convicts from Western Australia to South Australia, and the effect on the crime rate.
Uses elsewhere The term has been used by various other governments in relation to unconventional circumstances where a head of state is required to make use of reserve powers.
Iran In August 2024, ASIO director Mike Burgess claimed that Iran had been one of "three or four" foreign countries spying on and attempting to intimidate diaspora communities in Australia.
Its primary source information includes legislation, treaties and decisions of courts and tribunals.
In criminal cases the concept is used both as a form of bail when a person has been charged but not tried and also when a person has been found guilty at trial as an incentive not to commit further misconduct.
The prosecutor dropped the charge but proceeded on a charge of sending blasphemous materials through the mail.
The Department of the Arts, Sport, the Environment, Tourism and Territories was an Australian government department that existed between July 1987 and December 1991.
He was Secretary of the Department of Supply and Shipping (1946–1948) and later the Department of Supply (1953–1959).
Miller retired officially from Canberra in his final position as Secretary of the Department of Works and Railways in August 1917.
All other senior RAAF commanders who were veteran pilots of World War I, with the exception of the-then Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Jones, were also dismissed, ostensibly to make way for the advancement of younger officers.
On return to Australia in 1973 he joined the National Pipeline Authority under energy minister Rex Connor.
The authors added that "it is now clear that none of the arguments for retaining a law of blasphemy are sufficiently strong to support this view and each of them is outweighed by other considerations which persuade us that a law of blasphemy is not a necessary part of a criminal code.
They therefore do not bind State parliaments to the same degree that the Commonwealth constitution binds the Australian Government.
Stirling council annexed a northerly-adjacent portion of the District Council of Crafers when it was abolished in 1935, enlarging the council area in a region of high population growth.
He later served as Deputy Mayor from 2022–2023 and again from 2024–2025, before stepping into the role of Acting Mayor between June and September 2025.
David Evans was employed by the office from 1999 to 2005 to conduct carbon accounting and to build models.
It was temporarily abolished at the 1886 election when neighbouring seats absorbed its area and became two-member seats.
EMA is made up of the Crisis Management Branch, Disaster Recovery Branch, and the Disaster Preparedness Branch.
Proposed Changes to the Constituation The proposal was to alter section 51 of the Constitution as follows: Section fifty-one of the Constitution is altered— industry and Commerce.
The administrative head of the department is the Secretary of the Department of Finance, presently Matt Yannopoulos, who reports to the Federal Minister for Finance, presently Senator Katy Gallagher.
History The agency was responsible for administering the Energy Star program in Australia and provided funds for a fuel cell bus trial in Perth.
govdex provides a mechanism for the definition, and on-going development of the meta-data, common data dictionaries, and taxonomies that form the basis of a semantic framework.
In the 2002 Australia Day Honours Christie was made a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) in recognition of his "service to public administration, particularly transport management in New South Wales".
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Services came under fire from the media in 2004 when its benefactor, the CEO of ATSIC, Geoff Clark, faced rape allegations.
Question Do you approve of the proposed law for the alteration of the Constitution entitled 'Constitution Alteration (Industry and Commerce) 1926'?
She holds a Masters in Public Affairs from Princeton University and a Bachelor of Economics from the Australian National University.
The hotline was established following the 2002 Bali bombings, in which 202 people were killed, including 88 Australians.
By 1960, 20,800 km of controlled levelling had been completed with the addition of the Northern Territory and Queensland state authorities.
The website of the Supreme Court of New South Wales describes tipstaff positions as "extremely popular and therefore highly competitive" and that applicants are expected to have "a strong academic record".
In the Turnbull government he was appointed Assistant Minister for Defence from 21 September 2015; and between 18 February 2016 and 20 December 2017, Chester served as the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport following a rearrangement in the First Turnbull Ministry.
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973, which was included despite some uncertainty as to whether the provisions of Section 57 had been met.
Meagher, Gummow & Lehane's Equity: Doctrines and Remedies is a scholarly legal text originally composed by three Australian judges, Roddy Meagher, William Gummow and John Lehane.
Labor leader Kevin Rudd made reference to the phrase and to Menzies in the lead-up to the 2007 federal election for a perceived current generation of "Forgotten People".
He remains a member of the Liberal Party campaign Committee, and a Delegate to the Liberal Party State Council.
The magazine was conceptualised by Grace Perry to be international while maintaining an Australian presence.
Walsh was educated at the Hutchins School, and then attended the University of Tasmania, from which he graduated with degrees in Arts and Law.
The issue was raised again in January 2009, when a private member's bill to amend the Act of Succession was introduced in parliament.
Paul Raymond Henderson (born 15 August 1962) is a former Australian politician who was Chief Minister of the Northern Territory from 2007 to 2012.
The Rural City of Murray Bridge is a local government area of South Australia, centred on the regional city of Murray Bridge and stretching south to Lake Alexandrina.
He later served as director-general of the Department of Public Works, head of the Roads & Traffic Authority, head of transport for the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games, and Co-ordinator General of the state's rail industry before retiring in June 2001.
In 2006, Schubert received an honorary doctorate from James Cook University as recognition for his management of environmental assets in North Queensland.
In October 2006, Cobb sparked controversy after reports that he had allegedly stated at a meeting of disability service advocates that he would "get rid of" a child who had a disability.
She was Counsellor (Public Affairs) for the Public Affairs section of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta at the time of her death.
Despite their Meteors having inferior maneuverability to the Soviet-built MiGs, the Australian pilots managed to score their first victories of the Korean War, for the loss of three aircraft.
Awards While Deputy Secretary of the Defence Production Department in January 1957, Knott was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire.
How do you plead: Representing yourself when charged with drink-driving in New South Wales local courts (with Helen Walsh).
The Scottish Parliament unanimously passed a motion in 1999 calling for the complete removal of any discrimination linked to the monarchy and the repeal of the Act of Settlement.
Born in Melbourne, Canada East, the son of Melbourne McTaggart Tait, Tait entered the service of the Grand Trunk Railway in 1880, and by 1903 he was manager of transportation with Canadian Pacific Railway company.
As of 2026, Australian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 182 countries and territories, ranking the Australian passport 7th in the world according to the Henley Passport Index.
Eligible people, for example those with a disability, can purchase a key that opens all accessible toilets displaying the MLAK symbol.
For supporting incumbent McCormack in the 2021 Nationals leadership spill, Chester was stripped of his ministerial portfolios by new leader Joyce.
Recognition Knibbs was created a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in 1911 and was knighted in 1923.
COMDISPLAN is normally activated when Commonwealth assistance for emergency response or short-term recovery is requested or likely to be requested.
The Incident Response Group had received extensive training to build its capabilities in preparation for the meeting from SOCOMD units and the New Zealand Special Operations Component Command.
Sir Leo had more than fifty years' experience in the areas of government, the banking and finance industry, domestic and global financial markets, superannuation industry and as an independent Company Director.
In July 2013, Bird was appointed as the Minister for Regional Development, the Minister for Regional Communications and the Minister for Road Safety in the Second Rudd Ministry.
Such members ran for office as independents or under a variety of political labels but saw themselves as linked to other candidates by their support for a particular premier or government.
The National Centre for Vocational Education Research (NCVER) is an Australian non-profit that promotes research on the vocational education and training (VET) sector in Australia, and acts as a funding body for research in that field.
The AMOSplan is voluntary mutual aid arrangement where oil company equipment may be shared to best respond to a spill.
His son Tristram and daughters Emily and Fanny and a female relative escaped serious injury, and their maid servant, Miss Chew, sustained a broken arm.
Victoria As a result of the Local Government Act 2020, all rural-based councils in Victoria now have the option to become undivided or have equal-sized multi-member wards.
COAG differed from the United States' National Governors Association or Canada's Council of the Federation, because these bodies only include state/provincial representatives, whereas COAG also included federal and local representatives.
The second series was also filmed in Sydney with some scenes filmed in Canberra, and aired on the 12th of June 2023 on ABC Me and ABC iview.
He submitted the Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Transport to and from Tasmania in 1976, and it became known as the Nimmo Report.
The Department of Workplace Relations and Small Business was an Australian government department that existed between July 1997 and October 1998.
Qualification is based on terms (geographical location) set by the Exceptional Circumstances Relief Payments program.
Establishment The Australian Military Court was created when the Parliament of Australia passed the Defence Legislation Amendment Bill 2006, adding Section 114 to the Defence Force Discipline Act 1982, and commenced on 1 October 2007.
See also Federal Register of Legislation (Australian Government's online register of federal legislation) Free Access to Law Movement Legal Information Institute References External links Australasian Legal Information Institute
See also Translink Transport in Brisbane References External links Department of Transport and Main Roads
Prior to 2009 and since 2024, the Commissioner managed their own Department of Corrective Services, known from 1 October 2024 as Corrective Services NSW.
Philipp, Notes on the Study of Australian Colonial Architecture, "Historical Studies – Australia and New Zealand", Vol.
The long-term strategy of the Office was to improve the access of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples to comprehensive primary health care services.
The term is commonly used in Australia, where it has been applied in various contexts, most recognizably in relation to special consideration policies for students and drought relief payments for farmers known as Exceptional Circumstances Relief Payments or ECRP.
On 13 February 1990, Headquarters Special Forces was established, which was renamed in 1997 to Headquarters Special Operations and in 2003 to Special Operations Headquarters or SOCOMD.
As of 2014 the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) has been responsible for Australia's official development assistance (foreign aid) to developing countries.
The seat was created ahead of the Assembly's first election held in 1856, and was abolished at the 1903 election, when it was merged with the neighbouring seats of Campbell Town and the northern part of Glamorgan into the new district of Cambria.
The department was established on 1 July 2022, superseding the water and environment functions from the Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment and energy functions from the Department of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources.
It was established on 25 May 1876 as the Corporate Town of Mount Gambier, and became the City of Mount Gambier when it gained city status in 1955.
The Hawke government was the last Australian Government to operate within the international climate of the Cold War, which came to a conclusion in the aftermath of the 1989 Fall of the Berlin Wall.
It found that, as the Act of Settlement is part of the Canadian constitution, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, as another part of the same constitution, does not have supremacy over it.
She has also served on the Australian Commission for Law Enforcement Integrity since 2016, and the Law Enforcement Committee since 2019.
Refugee intake In 2015 Laundy was shown photographs of a dead Syrian toddler fleeing the Syrian civil war by his daughter at the dinner table, which brought him and the rest of his family to tears.
In December 2024, Pitt announced he would be quitting parliament, criticising party leader David Littleproud for being "too obedient" to the Liberal Party.
Canada In Canada, the Chief Justice has a dormant commission to act as Administrator of the Government of Canada in the absence of the Governor General of Canada.
History It was established on 1 November 1997 with the amalgamation of the City of Kensington and Norwood, the City of Payneham and the Town of St Peters.
He played for Toowong in Brisbane district cricket and in 1903 he scored 233 for the club against South Brisbane, setting the record highest individual score in Queensland district cricket.
Clement Wilks (15 February 1819 – 2 May 1871) was a civil engineer and architect in colonial Victoria, Australia.
The Petrovs had been sent to the Canberra embassy in 1951 by the Soviet security chief, Lavrentiy Beria.
On 1 July 2008, the community was merged into the Central Desert Shire, although the Community Government Council remained in existence as a Local Board, which meets at Atitjere.
His residency was the first permanent building in Canberra and he was responsible for conducting an international design competition for establishing the national capital.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Prime Minister of Australia of the day, John Gorton.
In June 2021, the Australian and UK governments announced that their reciprocal working holiday scheme would soon be expanded to allow citizens of both countries aged 18 to 35 live and work in the other country for up to three years.
McBurney was named the All Australian Umpire for the 2003 and 2007 seasons and umpired the AFL Grand Final in 2002, 2003, 2007 and 2009.
Elizabeth Josephine "Liz" O'Neill (19 March 1969 – 7 March 2007) was an Australian public servant and diplomat.
Assessment and ratings Under the NQF, regulatory authorities conduct assessments of approved education and care services against the criteria.
Over the years, differences of application have emerged in Australia's tests for causation, duty of care, calculation of damages, amongst other areas.
Makassan trepangers (along with shipwrecked Dutch sailors) made contact with Indigenous Australians along the northern coast of Australia during the 17th and mid-18th centuries, although this did not lead to permanent settlement.
List of ministers for health 1 Ministerial role expanded on 19 October 2000 to include Housing, as well as Health and Community Care.
In Australian local government, an undivided council (also referred to as unsubdivided, a single ward or an at-large ward) is a council that does not have any wards, meaning all councillors are elected in a single area representing the entire local government area (LGA).
History The council was established on 27 April 1854, bringing local government to the western half of the Hundred of Munno Para, the District Council of Munno Para East having been formed the year before.
He later attended the University of Queensland, where he earned a BA in 1966 and an LLB(Hons) in 1969, and the London School of Economics, where he earned an LLM in 1979.
The Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme is an Australian Government scheme to provide financial assistance to shippers of freight between Tasmania and mainland Australia.
History Farquhar was born on Lefevre Peninsula the eldest son of (ship's) Captain Allan Farquhar (c.
At the end of his term in November 1968, when he had been already appointed to head the Postmaster-General's Department starting the following month, Knott attended the UN World Space Conference in Vienna.
Its population centre was the town of Sorell east of Tasmania's capital, Hobart, and included the Tasman Peninsula.
It split the preceding Department of Education, Skills and Employment into the newly formed Department of Education and Department of Employment and Workplace Relations.
(Listed on the National Trust of Australia (Victoria) Register: B6439 and on the Register of the National Estate: Place 102643).
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1886 election, largely replacing the seat of Norfolk Plains, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
The creation of the department, with a Darwin-based Secretary, was seen by many as an effort to undermine the role of the Northern Territory Administrator.
Australia in the War of 1939–1945: Series Three (Air) Volume I – Royal Australian Air Force 1939–1942.
The Transforming Australia: SDG Progress Report - Update 2020 included an evaluation of the effects of COVID-19 on Australia's capacity to achieve the SDGs.
Seselja was previously a member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly from 2004 to 2013, and served as leader of the Canberra Liberals and Leader of the Opposition from 2007 to 2013.
In 1935 the council was abolished with the southern part of the Hundred of Bowhill annexed by District Council of Karoonda and the remainder amalgamated with the District Council of Angas to form the new District Council of Marne.
According to the OECD, the percentage of Australians living in poverty fell during the Hawke government's time in office, from 11.6% of the population in 1985–86 to 9.3% in 1989–90.
Private life On 17 April 1873, Anderson married Edith Sarah, daughter of William Wood, reader at the Queensland Government Printing Office.
Ministries of the Welsh Government See also List of British governments List of Northern Ireland Executives List of Scottish governments
After the war, his father handed over to him all his land, and Ormsby-Gore farmed the 400 acres (1.6 km2) of the Woodhill Estate, Oswestry, Shropshire.
Eventually, the Unionist government would falter after Chamberlain proposed his scheme for tariff reform, whose partial embrace by Balfour led to the resignation of the more orthodox free traders in the Cabinet.
Cabinet December 1834 – April 1835 List of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
After Nottingham's resignation in 1704, Godolphin and Marlborough turned for support to the "Country" Whigs, led by Speaker Robert Harley.
The Attlee government increased pensions and other benefits, with pensions raised to become more of a living income than they had ever been.
The Ministry relied on Independent and Labour support, and the former Ministerial faction opposing them gradually dissolved with members either associating with the new Government or sitting as independents.
Appointment Cabinet Deputy ministers See also Shadow Cabinet (Wales) Members of the 5th Senedd 2018 Welsh Labour leadership election 2021 Senedd election == References ==
Labour would soon ascend in the opinion polls, and the next few years brought a string of heavy defeats for the Conservatives in local council elections and parliamentary by-elections, with both Labour and the Liberal Democrats benefiting at their expense.
On 21 November 1901, following a failed attempt by Frederick Henry Piesse to form a ministry, the First Leake Ministry officially resigned and was followed by the Morgans Ministry led by Alf Morgans.
Prior to the election Cameron had led his first ministry, the Cameron–Clegg coalition, a coalition government that consisted of members of the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, with Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg as deputy prime minister.
The 1987 general election was as disappointing for the Alliance as the 1983 election and it lost one seat.
He helped to found the Camberwell Trades and Labour Council in 1913, and later became honorary Secretary of the Dulwich branch of the Independent Labour Party (ILP).
The First Commissioner of Woods and Forests, Lord Lincoln, enters the Cabinet, while Sir Edward Knatchbull, the Paymaster, leaves it.
January 2001 – Peter Mandelson is dismissed as Northern Ireland Secretary and is succeeded by John Reid.
No longer eligible to sit as a crossbencher, Owen now sits in the House of Lords as an "Independent Social Democrat".
David Lloyd George had been expected to join the government after recovering from surgery following an operation on his prostate as he was still the official leader of the Liberal party.
Initially, the government was a continuation of the previous coalition administration but lost three Peelites (William Ewart Gladstone, Sir James Graham and Sidney Herbert) within a few weeks.
The proposal did not pass, but caused tensions within the coalition which contained both proponents and opponents of political reform.
Junior Ministers Scottish Law Officers See also Premiership of Nicola Sturgeon Notes == References ==
Despite this, Tory support in the opinion polls remained relatively strong, with any Labour lead now being by the narrowest of margins, although Labour still made some gains at the expense of the Tories in local elections, and seized the Monmouth seat from the Tories in a by-election.
July 1801 – The William Cavendish-Bentinck, Duke of Portland succeeds John Pitt, Earl of Chatham as Lord President (Chatham remains Master of the Ordnance).
The Liberal government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in 1905 and ended in 1915 consisted of four ministries: the first led by Henry Campbell-Bannerman (from 1905 to 1908) and the final three by H.
This equal mix would prove difficult for the ministry, however, as strong debates occurred over the Security of the Succession, etc.
He worked as Political Secretary of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of India from 1926 to 1929, then he became a barrister-at-law at the Inner Temple in 1931.
Ministry See also 1734 British general election 1741 British general election 1742 vote of no confidence in the Walpole ministry Notes References == Further reading ==
The Irish Church The principal issue of the 1868 parliamentary session was the Irish question, manifested this time in the debate over the Anglican Church of Ireland.
Public expenditure as a share of GDP increased at around 1.5 per cent per year during the 1979–1983 period, despite the target being a reduction of one per cent, per year.
October 1927 – Lord Cushendun succeeded Lord Cecil of Chelwood as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster March 1928 – Lord Hailsham (former Sir D.
Under the Supplementary Benefit Act 1966, an owner occupier on benefits was entitled to an allowance for repairs, insurance, rates, and "reasonable" interest charges on a mortgage.
Arthur Hugh Elsdale Molson, Baron Molson, PC (29 June 1903 – 13 October 1991) was a British Conservative politician and member of the Molson family of Montreal.
February 1888 – Sir Michael Hicks Beach succeeds Lord Stanley of Preston as President of the Board of Trade.
References External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by William Adamson Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs
The Lid Lifts: An Account of the Author's Experiences During Two Visits to Occupied Germany in the Spring of 1945.
Palmerston was heavily criticised by Parliament in 1857 over the conduct of the Second Opium War and called a dissolution, but the nation voiced its support in the resulting general election and he returned with a Whig majority.
The Conservative government under Benjamin Disraeli had been defeated at the 1868 general election, so in December 1868 the victorious William Ewart Gladstone formed his first government.
See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1761 British general election Great Britain in the Seven Years' War Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
As Scottish Secretary, he presided over the last execution in Scotland when Henry John Burnett was hanged at Craiginches Prison in Aberdeen on the morning of 15 August 1963 by the hangman Harry Allen for the murder of merchant seaman Thomas Guyan.
It was formed during the 9th Parliament, after Premier James Dunsmuir resigned and named Prior as his successor.
It succeeded the Daglish Ministry on 25 August 1905 after the previous Labor minority administration fell on a vote of no confidence.
The deal also saw the Conservatives drop their 2017 manifesto commitments to pension and winter fuel allowance changes.
Notable quotations "I will look at any additional evidence to confirm the opinion to which I have already come." Arms See also Canadian peers and baronets References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Hugh Molson
The post was filled by the then Solicitor General, Colin Boyd, who was in turn replaced by Neil Davidson.
Baroness Scotland of Asthal and Lord Malloch-Brown were given the right to attend Cabinet as Attorney General and Africa, Asia and UN Minister.
Noble was the youngest son of Sir John Noble, 1st Baronet, and the grandson of Sir Andrew Noble, 1st Baronet, and was educated at Eton College and Magdalen College, Oxford.
He broadcast about the liberation of the German concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen, and wrote a book on the subject called The Lid Lifts.
He was almost a resident at the White House, being more a friend of the family than a mere ambassador.
Richard Simpson resigned from his post as Deputy Justice Minister on 26 November 2002, and was replaced by Hugh Henry.
Parliamentary Private Secretary Sir Alec Douglas-Home, who became Prime Minister in October 1963, choose Pearson to be his Parliamentary Private Secretary, an unpaid but pivotal role where Pearson had to maintain relations between the Prime Minister and his own backbenchers.
The second McConnell government (20 May 2003 – 16 May 2007) was formed following the 2003 general election to the 2nd Scottish Parliament.
The office of Prime Minister Lord Salisbury was the second and last person to be head of government while not simultaneously holding the title of First Lord of the Treasury.
The Michael administration was formed by Alun Michael following the 1999 National Assembly for Wales election and was a Labour minority administration.
Farron confirmed this stance on 9 June 2017, the day after the 2017 general election, which resulted in the Conservatives losing their majority.
His successor in the office is not a Cabinet member Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
Alun Davies was sacked from the government on 8 July 2014, his responsibilities were temporarily restructured with some going to Rebecca Evans who joined the government as a junior minister.
On his retirement from the cabinet in 1968, he was appointed a Member of the Order of the Companions of Honour.
See also History of the United Kingdom during the First World War § Lloyd George as Prime Minister References Further reading Burk.
On 3 May 1974 Noble was elevated with a life peerage as Baron Glenkinglas, of Cairndow in the County of Argyll.
Conservative MPs elected Chancellor of the Exchequer, John Major as their new leader on 27 November 1990, and he was invited by the Queen to form a majority government the following day.
Cabinet May 2011 to September 2012 September 2012 to November 2014 Junior ministers Scottish law officers == References ==
It was agreed that Parliament would be dissolved on 15 June and the election would be held on 5 July.
Harold Wilson and Europe: Pursuing Britain's Membership of the European Community (IB Tauris, 2007).
As a result, he suddenly and unexpectedly inherited the family peerages and estates, except for the Lordship of Nairne, which under Scottish law went to the 7th Marquess's sister Katherine Evelyn Constance Bigham (1912–1995).
A Companion to Early Twentieth-Century Britain (Blackwell, 2003); 32 essays by experts, on 1900–1939, with emphasis on historiography.
She also appointed Vikki Howells as Minister for Further and Higher Education, and added Culture and Skills to Jack Sargeant's portfolios, alongside Social Partnership.
Peel was in Sardinia at the time, so the Duke of Wellington took control of the government in a caretaker capacity until Peel returned and was able to form his government on 10 December.
In late 1981, the SDP formed the SDP–Liberal Alliance with the Liberal Party to strengthen both parties' chances in the UK's "first past the post" electoral system.
Cabinet December 1868 – February 1874 Notes † The Earl de Grey was created the Marquess of Ripon in 1871.
Notes Other uses of the term The term has since been used in politics to describe an administration with members from more than one party or even a non-coalition government that enjoys cross-party support due to gifted and/or non-partisan members.
In return, they (and the wives of male contributors) were eligible for flat-rate pensions, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, and funeral benefit.
Cabinet Junior ministers Retirement of Rhodri Morgan See also Members of the 3rd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
The Baldwin Age (1960), essays by scholars 252 pages; online Archived 10 October 2019 at the Wayback Machine Smart, Nick.
Michael German, Deputy First Minister and Minister for Rural Affairs and Wales Abroad June 2002 to May 2003.
Victor Alexander George Anthony Warrender, 1st Baron Bruntisfield, (23 June 1899 – 14 January 1993), known as Sir Victor Warrender, Bt, between 1917 and 1942, was a British Conservative politician.
Two years previously, Lord Hyde (later Earl of Clarendon) had been appointed Lord Chancellor, and in 1660, he was joined by several other powerful statesmen, including the heir presumptive of the English throne, the Duke of York.
On 4 January 1687 James II dismissed Rochester and his brother the Earl of Clarendon, replacing both with Catholic appointees, Lord Belasyse (aged 72) and Lord Arundell (aged 79).
He could not continue as Leader of the House of Lords, having ceased to be a member of it, but was made Minister for Education in April 1964.
It was led by the two Pelham brothers in Parliament, Prime Minister Henry Pelham in the House of Commons and Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle in the House of Lords.
Background and education Dundee was the elder son of Colonel Henry Scrymgeour-Wedderburn, de jure 10th Earl of Dundee, and Edith, daughter of John Moffat.
In the Conservative–Liberal Democrat coalition agreement of 11 May 2010, the two parties formed a coalition government.
In 1900 he joined the 1st London Rifle Volunteers (territorial army) as a major, rising to the rank of colonel and commanding officer.
The agreement will see both parties pledge for a second referendum on Scottish independence, an increase investment in active travel and public transport, enhancing tenants rights, a ten-year £500m Just Transition and establishing a National Care Service.
However, following her death, Bedford married Jacquetta of Luxembourg, which the Duke of Burgundy disapproved of and Burgundy made peace with France.
Ashdown, a strong proponent of a Lib–Lab coalition, said that from Blair's point of view, in order to get the Conservatives out of power and because he wanted to move his party towards the New Labour ideal, a coalition would strengthen his majority in the likely event of a victory.
The government included several men from the previous administration, but four of the most important, Lords Dudley and Palmerston and Messrs Huskisson and Grant, resigned in May 1828.
The chancellor served as Keeper of the Great Seal, presided over the Privy Council and Parliament, and led the High Court of Chancery.
Samuel George Mercer Nairne (born 1976); married Claire Aussudre, and has two sons (born 2009 and 2011) and one daughter.
History Formation of government In the May 2016 Scottish Parliament election, the Scottish National Party (SNP) won 63 of the 129 seats contested.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
April 1939 – Leslie Burgin becomes Minister without Portfolio pending the legislation to create the Ministry of Supply.
He served as Secretary of State for War from 1951 to 1956 and as Minister of Defence (with a seat in the cabinet) from 1956 to 1957, in the administrations of Winston Churchill and Anthony Eden.
The Ulster Unionist Party (UUP), Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) and Alliance Party of Northern Ireland returned to the Executive, having been absent since 2016; Alliance's Naomi Long obtained the cross-community vote to become Minister for Justice.
This Ministry ran until Morgan formed a coalition government with the Liberal Democrats in October 2000.
The ministry was replaced by the Reid ministry on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
He was the first Tory prime minister since the Harley ministry during 1710–1714 though his ministry was largely made up of Whigs.
Mark Harper replaced Gove as Chief Whip, whilst Matthew Hancock became the new Minister for the Cabinet Office, being replaced by Anna Soubry as Minister of State for Small Business, Industry and Enterprise.
He supervised 50,000 employees and over a thousand local offices where people could obtain ration cards.
While the term was in common parlance in the 19th and early 20th centuries, it has become rarer, except in official and academic uses.
Unemployment rose significantly, but when Wilson called a general election for June 1970, the opinion polls all pointed towards a third successive Labour victory.
He is succeeded at the Board of Trade by William Huskisson 1823 – Lord Maryborough, the Master of the Mint, leaves the Cabinet.
Edward Heath of the Conservative Party formed the Heath ministry and was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by Queen Elizabeth II on 19 June 1970, following the general election of the previous day.
On 30 July 1954, he was created Baron Glassary, of Glassary in the County of Argyll, in the Peerage of the United Kingdom, giving him an automatic seat in the House of Lords (not guaranteed by his Scottish peerages).
The Labour Party chose to go into minority government, and Rhodri Morgan was re-elected first minister on 26 May 2007.
Five more of the original Alliance Government MPs have announced they would not be seeking reelection.
This is a list of all Welsh Government ministerial teams which have existed since the introduction of devolution for Wales in 1999.
The Walpole ministry was led by Whig Prime Minister Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford, from 1730 to 1742—when Walpole left the government.
He served as Northern Secretary throughout until his resignation, having been the mainstay of whom the respective prime ministers were dependent for support.
The government was also supported by the sole Welsh Liberal Democrat MS Kirsty Williams and the independent MS Dafydd Elis-Thomas.
The union strikes affected Britain during the Winter of Discontent (1978–1979) as public services ground to a halt.
Incumbent First Minister Nicola Sturgeon soon afterwards announced her intention to form a minority government.
Creech Jones took over at a time when the tensions in Palestine were increasing, and he frequently appealed to moderate Jewish leaders to restrain the more violent.
Cabinet Changes May 2002 – Stephen Byers resigns and the Department of Transport, Local Government & the Regions is broken up.
Edward Heath, the Conservative Prime Minister, attempted to negotiate a coalition agreement with the Liberal Party, but resigned as prime minister after failing to do so.
His successor at the ensuing byelection was Norman Lamont, the future Chancellor of the Exchequer under John Major.
Smethwick had been a focus of immigration from the Commonwealth but the economic and industrial growth of the years following the Second World War were coupled with local factory closures, an ageing population and a lack of modern housing.
4th Executive of Northern Ireland See also List of Northern Ireland Executives Members of the Northern Ireland Assembly elected in 2016 == References ==
In 1931, the situation deteriorated and there was much fear that the budget was unbalanced, which was borne out by the independent May Report which triggered a confidence crisis and a run on the pound.
The Rule of Democracy, 1905–1914 (vol 6 of "History of the English People, 1905–1914") (1934); online Hay, James Roy.
August 1877: George Ward Hunt dies and is succeeded as First Lord of the Admiralty by William Henry Smith.
The Foxites allied with the supporters of Lord North to bring down the government, and the Fox–North coalition came to power in April 1783.
Both parties' ministers shared collective responsibility for the government's positions, although the coalition agreement detailed several issues on which the parties agreed to differ; the Liberal Democrats abstained from voting in such cases.
History Formation The Duke of Wellington finally came to power after the abortive attempt at a Canningite-Whig coalition government came to an end with Viscount Goderich's resignation in January 1828.
"MacDonald's Parties: The Labour Party and the 'Aristocratic Embrace' 1922–31," Twentieth Century British History (2007) 18#1 pp 1–53.
2 Richard Pennefather had served as Attorney-General since 27 October 1897 as part of the Forrest Ministry.
The second Stanhope–Sunderland ministry (1718–1721) was a continuation of the British Whig government headed by Charles Spencer, 3rd Earl of Sunderland and James Stanhope, 1st Earl Stanhope.
Subsequently, two Liberal ministers, Alec Glassey and John Pybus, defected to the Liberal Nationals.
July 1865 – Robert Rolfe, 1st Baron Cranworth succeeds Lord Westbury as Lord Chancellor The Earl Russell's Cabinet, October 1865 – June 1866 Changes February 1866: The Lord de Grey succeeds Sir Charles Wood as Secretary for India.
In 1937, Irvine stood as a Liberal candidate at Bethnal Green North East in the London County Council elections.
This article details the third Thatcher ministry which she led at the invitation of Queen Elizabeth II from 1987 to 1990.
The money lent under the Advances to Workers Act 1906 led to the construction of 9,675 houses by 1919.
Sir Arthur James Irvine, QC PC (14 July 1909 – 15 December 1978) was a British barrister and politician.
Lauderdale retained his position and his relatively autonomous power in Scotland, becoming an enemy of Shaftesbury.
The National Insurance (Unemployment and Sickness Benefit) Amendment Regulations 1966 provided that where a person's employment has been terminated, payments from the employer (other than wages in lieu of notice) do not affect entitlement to unemployment benefit.
Joe FitzPatrick's local government position was abolished, and he therefore departed government along with Equalities Minister Emma Roddick and Parliamentary Business Minister George Adam.
It is also the last time in Canadian political history that a lieutenant governor dismissed a premier.
Intensive talks resumed in December 2019 following the 2019 UK General Election with a new deadline of 13 January 2020 for fresh assembly elections set by Secretary of State Julian Smith.
This was the first time a deputy first minister had been appointed to the Welsh Government since Ieuan Wyn Jones in 2007.
Only four members of the Cabinet (Derby himself, St Leonards, Lonsdale, and Herries) were existing Privy Councillors and many others were complete political unknowns.
Senior ministers in the cabinet were once again named "cabinet secretaries" with junior ministers referred to as "ministers", as they were in Carwyn Jones's third government.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
In later life, Molson was Chairman (1968–71) and President (1971–80) of the Council for the Protection of Rural England.
He is also said to be the first politician Margaret Thatcher looked up to before beginning her career in politics.
December 1933 – Stanley Baldwin ceases to be Lord Privy Seal, and his successor in that office is not in the cabinet.
Membership Shown here is a table showing the main membership of the Danby Ministry for its duration.
In popular culture Ormsby-Gore was portrayed by Peter Donat in the 1974 television play The Missiles of October, which was about the October 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis.
Living conditions were poor; instead of expansion, the country's task was to replace the national wealth destroyed or used up during the war.
Keith, British Historical Facts 1830–1900 External links "Lord Derby looses bigotry on the streets".
Lady Georgina Elizabeth Petty-Fitzmaurice (1950–2022); married Guy Hamilton in 1974 (divorced 1980), and married Robert Eric Miller in 1981 (divorced 1990).
Returning to Downing Street, MacDonald attended what would be the Labour cabinet’s last meeting, informing members of what had been discussed.
The nominal head of the ministry was Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, until his death in 1743.
References Times Guide to the House of Commons 1979 External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Joseph Godber Portraits of Joseph Godber at the National Portrait Gallery, London
On 25 August 1905, the Governor, Admiral Sir Frederick Bedford, designated 6 principal executive offices of the Government under section 43(2) of the Constitution Acts Amendment Act 1899.
Leading members See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1757 in Great Britain Notes References Works cited == Further reading ==
On 6 April 1757, following Pitt's opposition to the execution of Admiral John Byng, the King (who distrusted Pitt) dismissed him and his brother-in-law Lord Temple, who had been First Lord of the Admiralty.
Two members of the National Assembly were elected to the UK Parliament at the 2005 UK general election (David Davies and Peter Law) reducing the collective strength of the opposition for day-to-day business.
This is a list of the principal Ministers of the Crown of the Kingdom of England, and then of the Kingdom of Great Britain, from May 1702, at the beginning of the reign of Queen Anne.
The Conservative Government of the United Kingdom that began in 1922 and ended in 1924 consisted of two ministries: the Law ministry (from 1922 to 1923) and then the first Baldwin ministry (from 1923 onwards).
The Labour Party in Scotland was defeated by the SNP with the SNP winning 47 seats to Labour's 46, leaving the SNP short of an overall majority in the Parliament.
It was led by William Ewart Gladstone of the Liberal Party upon his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by Queen Victoria.
He was swiftly named as an Assistant Government Whip (1960) and became a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury (Government Whip) in March 1962.
April 1882: Earl Spencer becomes Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, but retains his seat in the cabinet and his position as Lord President.
A new coalition government (the coalition used the term government rather than administration; officially referred to as the Coalition Partnership) was officially announced on 5 October 2000 with policy details emerging the day later.
Military career A career soldier, Head was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 15th/19th The King's Royal Hussars on 30 August 1926.
Charles Townshend, 2nd Viscount Townshend, was appointed Secretary of State for the Northern Department by George I of Great Britain in September 1714.
Rosen, Greg (ed.) Dictionary of Labour Biography, London: Politicos Publishing 2001; ISBN 978-1-902301-18-1 Shepherd, John.
It succeeded the First Leake Ministry on 21 November 1901, and was followed by the Second Leake Ministry on 23 December 1901.
They had three children: John Warrender, 2nd Baron Bruntisfield (7 February 1921 – 14 July 2007) Simon George Warrender (11 August 1922 – 8 May 2011), married Pamela Myer – built Bruntisfield House Melbourne and had issue – Edwina Jane Maitland (11 Dec.
Henry Goulburn was Chancellor of the Exchequer, the future Prime Minister Lord Aberdeen Foreign Secretary and Sir James Graham Home Secretary.
On 29 June 2017, the DUP and Sinn Féin had both announced that they had not come to an agreement to form the next Northern Ireland Executive.
The Rockingham Whigs had generally been sympathetic to the cause of the Colonists and under Rockingham the British government began the negotiations leading to the Peace of Paris that concluded the war.
Supporting these peers were two unofficial whips in the House of Lords: the earls of Sunderland and Portland.
Former Commons Chief Whip Jacqui Smith was given a substantial promotion as the first female Home Secretary and was replaced by Geoff Hoon, who was promoted from being the Europe Minister.
The ministry is chiefly remembered for Gladstone's first attempt to introduce the Home Rule Bill for Ireland.
Following the vote to leave at the EU referendum on the morning of 24 June, Cameron said that he would resign as prime minister after a new Leader of the Conservative Party was chosen after the party conference in the autumn.
According to Alistair Cooke, Baron Lexden, a Conservative member of the House of Lords, Nicholls had an affair with the Russian spy John Vassall.
History Following the split in the Tory Party over the Corn Laws in 1846 and the consequent end of Sir Robert Peel's second government, the Whigs came to power under Lord John Russell.
Sir Robert Peel's first government succeeded the caretaker ministry of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington.
The Reid ministry succeeded the Watson ministry, which dissolved on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support and Chris Watson was forced to resign.
However, it only lasted two days, collapsing on 12 February (even before all the ministers could be appointed), and Pelham was reappointed by George II to resume the Broad Bottom ministry on 14 February.
However Russia's ambassador Semyon Vorontsov organised Pitt's enemies and launched a public opinion campaign.
After the official Liberal Party withdrew from the latter government in 1933, another faction, the National Liberals, remained in coalition with the Conservatives.
Cabinet Changes January 1887 a Liberal Unionist, George Goschen, joined the ministry, succeeding Churchill as Chancellor of the Exchequer.[C.
The Conservative government of the United Kingdom that began in 1957 and ended in 1964 consisted of three ministries: the first Macmillan ministry, second Macmillan ministry, and then the Douglas-Home ministry.
Notably for the first time in the assembly's history, parties entitled to seats on the executive could instead opt to go into formal opposition.
References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities Notes
When this led to an attempt to replace the conciliatory Southern Secretary, Lord Shelburne, Chatham finally roused himself enough to resign from his position as Lord Privy Seal, leaving Grafton as the nominal as well as real head of a ministry in which the Bedford faction was now stronger than ever.
History The Whig elite rose to government ascendancy while Lord Danby held office through three shortly-spaced changes of sovereign (dating to the royal-dominated ministries of Charles II).
While on leave from the Navy, Callaghan was selected as a Parliamentary candidate for Cardiff South: he narrowly won the local party ballot with twelve votes, against the next highest candidate George Thomas, who received eleven.
Theresa May formed the first May ministry in the United Kingdom on 13 July 2016, after having been invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government.
Cabinet Ministers not in Cabinet Thomas Robinson, 2nd Baron Grantham – First Lord of Trade Isaac Barré – Treasurer of the Navy Thomas Townshend – Secretary at War Edmund Burke – Paymaster of the Forces William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland – Lord Lieutenant of Ireland == References ==
He was later High Commissioner to Nigeria from 1960 to 1963 and High Commissioner to Malaysia from 1963 to 1966, where he unsuccessfully attempted to negotiate Singapore's continued status as part of Malaysia.
It was this government which would conduct the Second Boer War from 1899–1902, which helped them to win a landslide victory at the 1900 general election.
Ministers not in Cabinet Lord Chamberlain – William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland == References ==
Who?" ministry, a short-lived British Conservative government which was in power for a matter of months in 1852.
late January 1986 – Paul Channon succeeded Leon Brittan as Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
First term 2007–2011 Cabinet appointments and changes On the same day of Salmond's appointment, he began making appointments to the Scottish Cabinet.
Carwyn Jones was re-elected First Minister in May 2011 and continued to serve up to and beyond the 2016 election.
Sir Francis Fenwick Pearson, 1st Baronet, (13 June 1911 – 17 February 1991) was a British colonial administrator, farmer and politician.
In foreign affairs, the government was active in the United Nations and negotiated a $5 billion loan from the United States and Canada in 1946.
Ministry As compared to the 20th and 21st century, when ministers hold a cabinet-level position under the British prime minister, it is unclear which of the following ministers, beyond Pitt, functionally acted as members of Prime Minister Newcastle's cabinet.
The specific epithet (elata) means 'tall or elated', "in reference to this being one of the tallest species of Acacia".
Brachychiton diversifolius, commonly known as the northern kurrajong, is a small tree of the genus Brachychiton found in northern Australia.
The name Alsophila tricolor was considered the correct scientific name for the species, due to the species epithet dealbata being preoccupied in the genus by a species described in 1848 by Carl Borivoj Presl, now considered a synonym of Sphaeropteris glauca.
Callistemon 'Captain Cook' is a cultivar of the plant genus Callistemon, widely grown as an ornamental plant.
The Aztecs planted āhuēhuētl along processional paths in the gardens of Chapultepec because of its association with government.
One is in the Rio Grande Valley of southernmost Texas, while the other is in southern New Mexico, near Las Cruces.
Uses The plant is propagated by corms and plant division, and is a popular ornamental in both the local and international markets.
Ecology Uses Brahea armata has an attractive appearance, especially when young, and is commonly available at nurseries in the American southwest and in warm temperate locations elsewhere.
Although listed as Endangered in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, the same research has suggested that this classification is unwarranted.
The central style is surrounded by four yellow anthers which are also joined at the base with the tips rolled back, so that it resembles a cross when viewed end-on.
Description A small bushy tree growing to at most 8 m (26 ft), it generally has reddish buds, shell pink 2 cm (0.8 in) flowers and typical red (if a bit pale) 1.5 cm (0.6 in) cherries.
cespitosa (synonyms: Deschampsia bottnica (Wahlenb.) Trin.; Deschampsia littoralis (Gaudin) Reut.) Horticulture The species is cultivated as an ornamental garden plant, and numerous cultivars are available.
In the 1920s, eleven healthy Medjool palms were transferred from Morocco to the United States where they were tended by members of the Chemehuevi tribe in a remote region of Nevada.
selloana populations are best distinguished by a Bayesian analysis of genetic features such as microsatellites.
macrophyllus – southern China, southern Taiwan, and Japan (Honshu and Shikoku) Podocarpus macrophyllus var.
It does not tolerate prolonged exposure to temperatures below 10 °C (50 °F), so in temperate regions it must be grown under glass with heat.
Leaves are up to 1 m (39 in) long and often sharply recurved towards the tip, looking stiff and spiny.
A smaller shrub with dentate leaves, this turned out to be an immature plant of the same species with juvenile leaves.
— Hilton daisy Gerbera galpinii Klatt — Galpin's gerbera Gerbera jamesonii Bolus — Barberton daisy, Gerbera daisy, Transvaal daisy Gerbera sylvicola Johnson, N.R.Crouch & T.J.Edwards Gerbera viridifolia (DC.) Sch.Bip.
Dianthus caryophyllus ( dy-AN-thəs KAIR-ee-ə-FIL-əs), commonly known as carnation or clove pink, is a species of Dianthus native to the Mediterranean region.
Uses Although verbena ("vervain") has been used in herbalism and traditional medicine, usually as an herbal tonic, there is no high-quality evidence for its effectiveness.
zebrina is illegal in the Philippines and is punishable with six to ten years imprisonment and a fine of ₱100,000 to ₱1,000,000.
The best distinction is the slightly brighter green tone of the leaves, compared to the more greyish-green of P.
Companion planting is thought by its practitioners to assist in the growth of one or both plants involved in the association.
Description The individually growing Gymnocalycium mihanovichii have a broad-spherical, gray-green, often reddish overgrown plant body, which reaches stature heights and diameter of 3 to 5 centimeters.
The leaves are dark green above, purple below, marked heavily with silver along the veins and midriff.
Control measures Pheromone traps (attracting adult males) are able to prevent impregnation of adult females and therefore control the severity of the damage.
Goeppertia picturata is a species of plant now classified as belonging to the genus Goeppertia in the family Marantaceae.
The hermaphrodite flowers are white, produced in corymbs 4–11 cm (2–4 in) in diameter at the top of the stems.
Specifically these are food or drink additives of mostly botanical origin used in nutritionally insignificant quantities for flavoring or coloring.
The leaves are approximately triangular, about 3,5 cm long, with longitudinal pale brown or greyish veines along the upper surfaces and small teeth along the edges.
Its role as a species of mature forests has led it to be replaced by more opportunistic species in areas where forests are cut over.
Each seed is separated from the others by a membranous separator, and has a long rectangular wing, which is much longer than the seed itself.
An application to register the name 'Dusky Bells' was received by the Australian Cultivar Registration Authority in 1980 and accepted in 1986.
Plants growing in southern Australia often lose their fronds by the end of winter, as is the case with Alsophila dregei in South Africa.
Description Clerodendrum tomentosum grows up to 15 metres tall with a trunk diameter of 25 cm, though usually much smaller.
The piles beneath the Rialto in Venice, and the foundations of several medieval cathedrals are made of alder.
Description It is a coniferous evergreen tree, growing to 15–25 m (rarely to 30 m) in height, forming a wide, dense, conical crown.
Mayten tree is fully naturalized in New Zealand where it is spreading very rapidly in the Canterbury region, it now classed as an invasive species and illegal to sell or distribute in NZ.
The bright green straplike leaves are soft, up to 35 cm long and 2.5 cm wide, and are borne along the length of the stems, rather than the tufted habit typical of Dracaena.
It has been popular as a gourmet bushfood since the early 1980s and is commercially cultivated on a small-scale basis.
This does not imply high rates of self-fertilisation, however, as the species appears highly self-incompatible: although pollen grains will germinate on flowers of the self plant, they apparently fail to produce pollen tubes that penetrate the style.
Uses Cussonia spicata is harvested locally for its wood, roots, and leaves to be used as food, medicine, and timber.
Cultivation Celtica gigantea is grown as an ornamental grass for planting as single specimens and massed drifts in parks, public landscapes, and gardens.
The inner flesh of the mature fruit forms a regular part of the diets of many people in the tropics and subtropics.
Name and taxonomy The curious common name of 'downy chance' alludes to both the generic and species names.
However, essences are not used to prevent, control, or cure cancer or any other physical condition." The essential oil of various species, mainly common vervain, is traded as "Spanish verbena oil".
It is native to Inner Mongolia, Manchuria, northern and south-central China, Primorsky Krai in the Russian Far East, the Korean Peninsula, and Kyushu in Japan, and it has been introduced to Bulgaria, Great Britain, Ireland, the United States, and Uzbekistan.
Young trees up to 5–10 years old bear juvenile leaves, which are very different, single (not paired), 2–4 cm (3⁄4–1+1⁄2 in) long, glaucous blue-green; the adult leaves appear mixed with juvenile leaves from the fourth or fifth year on, replacing it fully by around the tenth year.
Depending on the growing conditions, live oaks vary from a shrub-size to large and spreading tree-size: typical open-grown trees reach 20 m (66 ft) in height, with a limb spread of nearly 27 m (89 ft).
It is found at a wide range of elevations, generally in habitats that have limited competition from other plants.
Haworthiopsis tessellata, formerly Haworthia tessellata, is a species of the genus Haworthiopsis belonging to the family Asphodelaceae.
It was named in honour of Victorian 19th century parliamentarian and agriculturist Samuel Henry Bindon.
More recently, prostrate shrubs have received attention for their usefulness in planting green roofs and green walls, where they can contribute to environmental conservation.
Ilex pedunculosa, called longstalk holly, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Ilex, native to central and southern China, Taiwan, and Japan.
The tree is sometimes called fierce lancewood, in reference to its fierce-looking saw-tooth shaped juvenile leaves.
Adapted to cold, arid environments, its many‑stemmed growth habit fixes blowing sand, an important contribution to succession.
It is also found in the northeast of Argentina (Misiones and Corrientes), locally in Paraguay (Alto Paraná), growing in low mountains at altitudes of 500–1,800 metres (1,600–5,900 ft) and in northern regions of Uruguay where it was thought to be extinct until recent discoveries.
"Bromeliaceae da Mata Atlântica Brasileira: lista de espécies, distribuição e conservação" [Bromeliaceae of the brazilian Atlantic Forest: checklist, distribution and conservation].
The small, scented flowers, are 6–8 cm (2–3 in) in diameter, come in shades of blue, from violet, blue-violet, deep purple, blue-purple, deep blue-purple, pale purple, deep blue, to mid-blue.
The genome of Fraxinus excelsior has been sequenced using the self-pollinated offspring of a tree from Worcestershire, held by the Earth Trust.
Areas occupied by mountain hemlock generally have a cool to cold maritime climate that includes mild to cold winters, a short, warm-to-cool growing season and moderate to high precipitation.
It feeds on the sap of developing conifer cones throughout its life, and its sap-sucking causes the developing seeds to wither and misdevelop.
Distribution The natural range of this species is in the arid Little Karoo area around the boundary between the Western Cape and the Eastern Cape Provinces, South Africa.
Taxonomy A global phylogeny of Asplenium published in 2020 divided the genus into eleven clades, which were given informal names pending further taxonomic study.
Symbols of territorial entities and organizations The carnation is the national flower of Spain, Monaco, and Slovenia, and the provincial flower of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands.
An attempt was tried to grow the iris in West Germany and the US (near New York City), but they were unsuccessful, due to high humidity conditions.
huegelii ms Distribution Preference for temperate and sandy coastal plains from Geraldton to the Esperance Plains, predominantly those of the north and south mallee shrubland and heath.
Gallery References External links Pampas grass Cortaderia selloana Blueplanetbiomes.org Pampas Grass under the microscope Pampas Grass Montserrat, Vila (2009).
bipinnatifidum is cultivated as a landscape plant in many tropical, subtropical and warm temperate countries including the Philippines, throughout Australia, the gulf coast and east coast of the United States, including Florida and California, and in South Africa and northern New Zealand.
Medicinal Allium chinense is used as a folk medicine in tonics to help the intestines, and as a stomachic.
Cultivation Various forms of Rosa chinensis have been cultivated in gardens in China for a long time; therefore, it is not easy to distinguish between wild forms and cultivated forms.
Cultivation Heat and drought tolerant, it can be grown as a specimen tree or as a hedge bush, and it's hardy from zone 8b to 11.
The fruit is used to treat common colds, diabetes, asthma, headaches, diarrhea, and gallstones, while the roots are used as a diuretic.
Description This species has a fast growth rate of up to 10 to 80 cm (4 to 31 in) a year, growing to about 6 m (20 ft) tall.
The hard shells, fibrous husks and long pinnate leaves are used to make a products for furnishing and decoration.
Description It is an evergreen or semi-deciduous, vigorously-growing climber, capable of reaching 5 m in height.
There is a prominent, dark brown gland below the lowest pinna and sometimes a gland at the base of the uppermost pinnae.
It is native in Greece and Albania and may be naturalized elsewhere in Mediterranean Europe where it occurs in maritime sandy habitats and in waste places.
Biology The adult scale insect resembles a limpet and remains stationary on the bark of its host tree where it feeds on sap.
The fronds usually have a half-twist so that the leaflets at the distal end are more or less vertical.
The juvenile leaves are very long and narrow, measuring up to 25 by 1 cm (9.8 by 0.4 in), while the mature leaves are broadly oblanceolate, measuring up to 15.5 by 5 cm (6.1 by 2.0 in).
In order to increase the efficiency of weed control not only chemical weed control should be applied but also mechanical weed control.
The tree was called platane in ancient Greek history and literature and by related names in continental Europe.
The flowers are white or creamy-white, the corolla with a tubular base 0.16–0.24" (4–6 mm) long and a four-lobed apex 0.12–0.24" (3–6 mm) across, and a strong fragrance; they are produced in broad panicles 5–30 cm (2.0–11.8 in) long and 3–20 cm (1.2–7.9 in) broad in early summer.
A deciduous shrub reaching 2.5 m (8 ft), it is typically found in scrublands and mixed evergreen/deciduous forests, at elevations from 100 to 1,500 m (300 to 4,900 ft) above sea level.
Today the tulip tree is one of the largest and most valuable hardwoods of eastern North America, thriving in temperate deciduous forests east of the Mississippi River.
An intensive hybridisation and selection programme was initiated by Jan Hoog (Van Tubergen nursery) and E.A.
It occurs in the wild on limestone rocks and south-facing slopes at relatively high elevations of 500–2,150 metres (1,640–7,050 ft), but has also been planted at lower elevations.
Cultivation Like most cacti, Parodia leninghausii needs well drained soil, sunny exposure, regular watering in summer and no watering in winter.
External links Erythrina coralloides photos International Legume Database & Information Service: Erythrina coralloides
Rubus formosensis, the Formosan raspberry or Formosan bramble, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae, native to southeastern China (Guangdong and Guangxi), and Taiwan.
They are a deep green color, and since these plants are grown in the tropics, there is no apparent color change that correlates with the fall season.
It is presently registered under the name Gypchek and is available for use in USDA Forest Service sponsored suppression programs.
The spikelets are stalked, awnless, 1–2 cm (0.4–0.8 in) long when flowering, and loosely arranged on delicate paired or spreading branches.
Distribution and habitat The plant is native to the mountainous areas of Southwest China, particularly Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunnan, as well as Myanmar.
The flowers are bright blue with white lobes at the end in the wild species, but other colours are available, including white.
Flowers are yellow, 5 cm diameter, at the top of the plants, but only if adult (at least 20 cm tall) Sometimes, they present monstruous forms.
Hybrids With Banksia hookeriana Banksia prionotes readily hybridises with Banksia hookeriana (Hooker's banksia) under experimental conditions, indicating that these species have highly compatible pollen.
This coastal forest is at least 13 kilometres (8 miles) long, with dense and tall stands of Pinus pinea mixed with Pinus halepensis.
A contribution of 2 or 3 handfuls of wood ash around the stump in the spring may keep the gastropods away and make a good contribution of potash.
The cones are 5–10 mm long, with four scales, two very small sterile basal scales and two large fertile scales; each fertile scale has two winged seeds 3–4 mm long.
The cultivar was produced by plant breeder Stijn van Hoecke of the Belgian company Rudy Raes Bloemzaden nv.
Description It is a twining evergreen climber, growing to 3 metres (9.8 ft) or more, with panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers in summer.
The combined application of those two herbicides has been shown to be recommendable for effective weed management in Papaver somniferum.
The genus includes a single species, Rhodosphaera rhodanthema, which is a rainforest tree of eastern Australia.
The annual football rivalry game between Clemson and South Carolina is known as the "Palmetto Bowl".
1880: Karl Maximovich published first scientific description of the tree based on the specimens collected by Przhevalsky and Bretschneider.
Hybridization The dwarf habit and erect flowers characteristic of this species were taken advantage of by John Seden, who rapidly evolved several garden forms, including a dwarf race of hybrids suitable for summer-bedding which became popular in Victorian England.
regalis is primarily a pest of urban trees; its sap-sucking activities reduce its hosts' vigour, and the excess honeydew produced by the insects encourages the growth of sooty mould, which is unsightly.
The acorns are small, 1–2.5 cm (3⁄8–1 in), oblong in shape (ovoid or oblong-ellipsoid), shiny and tan-brown to nearly black, often black at the tips, and borne singly or in clusters.
Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWVI) is a plant pathogenic virus of the order Picornavirales, family Secoviridae, subfamily Comovirinae, genus Fabavirus.
In 1939, it was thought to be a form of Iris scariosa, then in 198 Brian Mathew classed it as a species related to Iris suaveolens.
chodatii are similar in form and size, but their color goes from creamy white centers to yellow tips.
It is a hybrid born in Japan and one of its cultivars, Prunus × yedoensis 'Somei-yoshino' or Yoshino cherry (Japanese: 染井吉野 or ソメイヨシノ, Hepburn: Somei Yoshino), is one of the most popular and widely planted cherry cultivars in temperate regions around the world today.
Fraxinus velutina, the velvet ash, Arizona ash or Modesto ash, is a species of Fraxinus native to southwestern North America, in the United States from southern California east to Texas, and in Mexico from northern Baja California east to Coahuila and Nuevo León.
As of October 2025, it has not been assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
obvallaris, sometimes classed as a separate species), which probably originated in cultivation but now grows wild in southwest Wales.
The leaves are produced in opposite pairs on long shoots and singly on short shoots; they have a 1.4–4.7 cm petiole, and are rounded with a heart-shaped base and a crenate margin.
Fancy-leaf zonal pelargoniums – besides having green leaves with or without zoning, this group also have variable coloured foliage that is sometimes used in classifying for exhibition purposes, e.g.
The natural range of distribution is from the Macleay River, New South Wales to Maryborough in south east Queensland.
Rural decline The plight of Cordyline australis in the sudden decline epidemic drew attention to another widespread threat to the tree in rural areas throughout New Zealand.
The lacebark pine produces cones that turn yellowish brown as they mature and are roughly egg-shaped and 5–7 centimetres (2.0–2.8 in) long.
Being a warm temperate plant which dislikes temperatures below −5 °C (23 °F), in cooler areas it must be lifted and stored in the winter months.
It is cultivated in Europe and North America as an ornamental tree, valued for its feathery white flowerheads.
However, it must be protected or brought-inside as a house plant when frost is a risk, or when nighttime temperatures drop below 40 °F (4.4 °C).
One reference mistakenly lists its common name as 'Chalcedonian iris', but this is normally used for Iris susiana.
Like Akebia quinata, it grows in USDA hardiness zones from 5a to 9b: from −20 °F (−28.9 °C) to 30 °F (−1.1 °C).
Ecology An example of plant associations of Rumohra adiantiformis is found in the Westland podocarp/broadleaf forests of New Zealand, with flora associates including Ascarina lucida, Pseudowintera colorata, Neopanax colensoi, Alsophila smithii, and Blechnum discolor.
Botanist Simon Mayo documented that these were names of the same plant species that exhibited slight anatomical differences.
Description Haworthia magnifica is a succulent evergreen slow-growing species reaching a size of 40 cm in height.
dielsiana (Poelln.) M.B.Bayer – common in cultivation, with short blue-green stumpy leaves, with no bristles or leaf-awns and completely rounded leaf-ends H.
After a century of naturalistic landscape gardening and two generations of revived pattern planting some bosquets re-entered garden design at the turn of the twentieth century.
Cultivation For best results in growing Virginia stock, sow on the surface in patches or rows and thin the young plants to 6 inches apart.
The wood of the lacebark pine is not commercially used as timber, but it is used locally by populations in northeast China for construction, furniture, and transport structures like pallets.
Flower clusters grow at intervals on short equal stalks along the stem, with bright yellow to red or pink bilateral flowers.
Fossil evidence suggests that it has only recently become adapted to the Mediterranean climate as its closest relatives are part of the Madrean pine-oak woodlands found at higher elevations in the southwest US and Mexico.
Confusingly, another mountain near Arsiero in the province of Vicenza (Veneto), is also known as Monte Cengio Alto.
These palms are naturally found in groups, formations of several individuals, or composing large caranday forests where they present strong dominance.
Description Occasionally reaching 30 metres in height and 90 cm in trunk diameter, the tree's crown is dense with small leaves, above a tall straight trunk.
Taxonomy Narcissus broussonetii was described by the Spanish botanist, Mariano Lagasca and published in Genera et species plantarum 1, in the year 1816.
The species is indigenous to the wetlands of the south-central and south-eastern United States from Texas to South Carolina.
Allium neapolitanum is a bulbous herbaceous perennial plant in the onion subfamily within the Amaryllis family.
It is tender, with a minimum temperature of 16 °C (61 °F) required, and in temperate areas is cultivated indoors as a houseplant.
Throughout spring and summer, the fungus produces acervuli on the exterior of the necrotic areas at their mature stage.
The leaves are elliptic-acute, 2.5–15 cm (0.98–5.91 in) long and 1–8 cm (0.39–3.15 in) broad, with an entire margin, and a roughish texture with slightly impressed veins.
Numerous cultivars have been developed, of which 'Luna Red' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The fruit is a yellow-orange to red capsule 13–25 mm (0.51–0.98 in) long, with a single seed in each locule.
fargesii 'Carnival' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit (confirmed 2017).
Paul Fryxell, in the journal "Australian Plants" (1966), described the species as one of two in a uniquely Australian genus.
This event, known as the Concours international de roses nouvelles de Bagatelle (International competition for new roses), has taken place annually ever since and remains one of the world's top rose competitions.
An analysis by Rio de la Loza showed the seeds contain 13.35 solid and liquid fat, 0.32 resin soluble in ether, 13.47 resin soluble in alcohol, 1.61 erythrococalloidine, an alkaloid, 5.60 albumen, 0.83 gum, 1.55 sugar, 0.42 organic acid, 15.87 starch, 7.15 moisture and 39.15 inorganic matter.
Although medical uses of Erysimum became uncommon in Europe after the Middle Ages, Erysimum diffusum, as well as purified erysimin and erysimoside, have been applied more recently as Ukrainian ethnobotanical treatments.
Port Melbourne: Elsevier Australia - Inkata Imprint, copyright Forestry Commission of New South Wales (published 1 December 1989).
References External links Ornamental Plants from Russia: Quercus pontica Other sources Rushforth, K.
In many communities of the mountain hemlock forest in British Columbia and Washington and northern Oregon, Pacific silver fir is a major climax species.
In its native habitat it blooms between July and December producing inflorescences that appear in groups of two to eight on an axillary raceme.
The hybrid populations were found at Mount Reid, Tyndall Range, Crooked Lake, Brumbys Creek, and Tarn Shelf, while the individuals are located at Mount Kate, Pine Lake, Wylds Craig and Lake Dobson Road.
Cultivation Aloidendron dichotomum is cultivated in arid areas around the world, for use in landscaping.
Dark, disc or cushion-shaped acervuli are formed under the plant epidermis which then splits open revealing the fruiting structures.
Agapanthus praecox (common agapanthus, blue lily, African lily, or lily of the Nile) is a popular garden plant around the world, especially in Mediterranean climates.
The second variety was first described as a separate species Pinus pentaphylla by Heinrich Mayr in 1890, but in reducing it to the rank of variety in 1910, Augustine Henry pointed out that the differences cited by Mayr between the two were minimal and inconsistent, with much overlap.
In 2021 the new genus Oreomecon was described by Enrico Augusto Banfi, Fabrizio Bartolucci, Jean-Marc Tison, and Gabriele Galasso including Oreomecon nudicaulis.
It is also the host plant of Mononychus schoenherrii Kolenati (a weevil that feeds on the seeds of the iris).
After being administered via intraperitoneal injection to diabetic mice in amounts of 300 mg/kg, blood glucose levels decreased by 43.75%, and by 29.61% in non-diabetic mice.
Kevin Collins of the Banksia Farm recalled that for many years pale seeds were discarded by seed collectors, who thought they were infertile.
Many of the trees in the avenue of jacarandas, at Grafton, were grown from seed of the trees that she grew in the garden of the Fells' home, 'Rostrevor', at Northwood.
Common names include coolamon, watermelon tree, durobby and robby; it is also called "rose apple" but this can refer to many species of Syzygium.
Taxonomy The specific epithet pontica, refers to the Latin term for Pontus, a historical region near the Black Sea where the tree is found.
Taxonomy The species was formerly placed in Hibiscus as Hibiscus huegelii, taking its name from Charles von Hügel (Baron von Huegel).
Description Melaleuca nesophila is a large shrub or small tree growing to 4.7–6 m (20–20 ft) in height by 4–5 m (10–20 ft) in width.
The Shirley poppy is an annual ornamental cultivar group derived from the European wild field poppy (Papaver rhoeas).
Lolium multiflorum (Italian rye-grass, annual ryegrass) is a ryegrass native to temperate Europe, though its precise native range is unknown.
is well defined as its own monophyletic group, including species from the genera Cyrtomidictyum, Cyrtogonellum, Cyrtomium, and Phanerophlebia.
There is an alternative theory suggesting the name originates from the Persian word نرگس (nargis), which also denotes an intoxicating quality associated with the plant.
The pollen resulting from the hairs on the leaves and flowers of Western sycamores can be allergens for some people.
The flowers are borne in panicles in leaf axils up to 280 mm (11 in) long, each flower on a pedicel 5–10 mm (0.20–0.39 in) long.
They are in the same family (Melastomataceae) as a native shrub Melastoma affine, which is known as native lasiandra.
Haworthia cooperi is a diverse and varied species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, endemic to the Eastern Cape Province in South Africa.
Spiraea salicifolia, the bridewort, willow-leaved meadowsweet, spice hardhack, or Aaron's beard, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
The genus is closely related to the southern African genus Strelitzia and the South American genus Phenakospermum.
Its fruit, the world's largest fig (syconium), up to 18 cm (7 in) in diameter are edible but rarely eaten except as an emergency food.
A small number of trees have been planted in gardens of California and private collections in Spain, and all of them have acclimatized in those lands.
yedoensis Matsumura has yet been heard." In 1932, Koidzumi discovered that Yoshino cherry (currently identified as king cherry) along with the cherry which was found by Taquet were growing naturally and reported that Yoshino cherry is originated on Jeju island.
Haworthiopsis limifolia, formerly Haworthia limifolia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asphodelaceae.
Botanist Karl Moritz Schumann named it after Wilhelm Lenninghaus (1845-1918), a native of North Rhine-Westphalia who, in the 1880s, left his hometown of Ennepetal and emigrated to Porto Alegre, Brazil, where he became Guillermo Lenninghaus, and collected cacti for the German grower Haage.
This is well seen in the case of the colours of the Shirley Poppies, one of the subjects with reference to which copious statistics have been amassed and published".
Primary hybrids Of these, A, U and Sc groups are sometimes lumped together as Species Derived (Sppd).
It is endemic to dry areas of the State of Nuevo León in northeastern Mexico and can also be found in Spain and Italy.
Habitat It grows on the dry grasslands of the steppes, or on the dry stony slopes of the lower mountain belt.
It prefers well-drained or alkaline soils rich in nutrients and humus with good water provision, but is extremely tough and adaptable.
Hibiscus 'Albo Lacinatus' is a cultivar of Hibiscus that was hybridized no later than the late 1700s or early 1800s, making it one of the earliest Hibiscus cultivars.
The performance of most genotypes of Papaver somniferum is very susceptible to environmental changes.
Common names include Neapolitan garlic, Naples garlic, daffodil garlic, false garlic, flowering onion, Naples onion, Guernsey star-of-Bethlehem, star, white garlic, and wood garlic.
Aloidendron dichotomum, formerly Aloe dichotoma, the quiver tree or kokerboom, is a tall, branching species of succulent plant, indigenous to Southern Africa, specifically in the Northern Cape province of South Africa, and parts of Southern Namibia.
They measure 10 to 15 centimetres (4 to 6 in) in diameter and their shape is superficially similar to hibiscus flowers.
Distribution and habitat It is native to Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, and it has been introduced to the Canary Islands, Morocco, Eritrea, Ethiopia, South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.
Health risks Like all Narcissus species, daffodils contain the alkaloid poison lycorine, mostly in the bulb, but also in the leaves.
Varieties It is a relatively widespread species, with several known varieties, including arcana, gigantea, glaucophylla, keithii, striata, ubomboensis.
Latin species name multipartitus means divided into several or many parts, referring to the shape of the flower; it comes from multi- + partitus, past participle of partire 'to divide', from part-, pars 'part'.
Spanning approximately 5.5 miles (8.9 km), the trail provides a continuous off-road connection between northeastern Austin and the suburb of Manor and follows the proposed Capital Metro Green Line, linking to the larger Southern Walnut Creek Trail system.
Picnic tables can be found outdoors in many public parks, residential back yards, rest areas, campgrounds, amusement parks, and many other places.
The canal "would be cut in a V-shape, with a concrete base and grassy slope," with intersections only at President, Victory, DeRenne and Montgomery Crossroad.
In 1980, to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Alberta and the legacy of the former Buffalo National Park, four bison from Elk Island National Park were moved to Wainwright.
See also Protected areas of the United States List of long-distance footpaths Long-distance trails in the United States References Further reading Karen Berger, Bart Smith (photography), and Bill McKibben (foreword): America's Great Hiking Trails.
A fourth gun was salvaged by the British Government and taken back to England but it is unclear where it is now located.
History Royal Hibernian Military School The Royal Hibernian Military School was founded in 1769 as the Hibernian Asylum by the Hibernian Society, a philanthropic organisation founded in Ireland in 1769 after the Seven Years' War.
This is the only French-style garden created by this landscape architect, and the only 19th century park to have a French-style part.
The park was officially opened on 6 September 1996, although it had been open to the public since December 1995; in 1998, it was added to the Civic District Heritage Trail.
The tomb was repaired in 1973 and in the 1990s, including the addition of a concrete block to support the capstone.
Some are open-air museums – heritage parks – devoted to depiction of daily life or occupational activity at a particular time and place, and may feature re-creations of typical buildings of an era.
Lathkill Dale is known for its range of wildflower species (including orchids and the rare Jacob's ladder), butterflies, ancient woodland and the presence of birds of prey, dippers, woodpeckers and water voles.
The greening of such alleys or laneways can also involve the planting of native plants to further absorb rain water and moderate temperature.
Examples include Ballincollig Regional Park (managed by Cork City Council), Millennium Regional Park (Fingal County Council), and Malahide Demesne Regional Park (also Fingal County Council).
The Serpentine Galleries are two contemporary art galleries in Kensington Gardens, Westminster, Greater London.
In the 21st century, the Emden Gun in Hyde Park remains a reminder of an important victory for the Australian Navy and the Australian crew involved in the Emden action.
Birmingham Blitz On the night of 11 December 1940, all but the fine tower of St Thomas' and classical west portico was destroyed by German bombs.
The Santa Maria Ship & Museum, a replica of Christopher Columbus's Santa María, was docked on the Scioto River by the park beginning in 1991, as part of the city's 1992 Christopher Columbus Quincentennial Jubilee, celebrating the 500th anniversary of Columbus's voyage to the Americas.
Little excavation work was conducted at Moundville by the Bureau of Ethnology's Division of Mound Exploration, partly because the landowner imposed a fee.
Today it is thought more likely to be a strongly Hellenised Punic cult, perhaps to Demeter or Asclepius-Eshmun.
Columbia Parkway carries US-50 traffic from downtown towards east-side suburbs of Mariemont, Anderson, and Milford, and is a limited access road from downtown to the Village of Mariemont.
Their exhibitions, architecture, education and public programmes attract up to 1.2 million visitors a year.
The series presents the work of an international architect or design team who has not completed a building in England at the time of the Gallery's invitation.
On 14 January 1966, a tractor with a snowplough was clearing the landing strip of snow when it broke through the ice and sank to the bottom of the lake, taking the driver, Walter Wilde (29), with it.
The Sept Îles Archipelago Regional Park (French: Parc régional de l'archipel des Sept Îles) is a proposed protected area in the Côte-Nord region of Quebec, Canada.
It then heads south along Borrowdale to Rosthwaite and crosses the fells to Grasmere and then to Patterdale, returning south to Windermere.
In 1653 the poet and angler Charles Cotton wrote of the ‘Lathkin’: it is by many degrees, the purest and most transparent stream that I ever saw, either at home or abroad, and breeds, it is said, the reddest and best Trouts in England.
Maintenance: Some rangers perform regular maintenance on infrastructure or equipment such as fire rings as part of their duties — especially in preparing for winter closures and spring reopenings.
Index Seminum meaning in Latin "seed index", is a catalog of seeds of wild or cultivated plants offered free of charge or in exchange of seeds of equivalent value by botanical gardens or arboretums.
Crescent Island or Ngo Mei Chau (Chinese: 娥眉洲) is an island of Hong Kong, located southeast of Crooked Island (Kat O) and northeast of Double Island (Wong Wan Chau).
After improvements were made to the Mormon Road wagon route in 1855, it had become what was known as the Los Angeles - Salt Lake Road.
On April 17, 2020, UC Berkeley published its plans for the People's Park Housing Project during its third virtual open house.
In that period, the embankment was reshaped, the paved promenade on the river wall, the stairs, the fountains, the lighting and the first plantings were executed.
Citing the city's Adopt-a-Park program, which encourages residents to keep small parks clean, permission was granted by the program's director.
If opening the ice to public use is possible, and those responsible give it their blessing, specific, demarcated areas of the lake are opened, but never the whole lake.
The museum exhibit claimed the shadow belonged to a 42-year-old woman named Mitsuno Ochi (越智ミツノ, Ochi Mitsuno), but conclusive proof of this claim cannot be determined and the victim's identity remains unknown.
Delta The Nemunas Delta wetlands are considered globally significant and are protected under the Ramsar Convention.
History The land where the park now stands was until the end of the 18th century a swampy area, between the wandering arms of Bega River in the south of the Timișoara Fortress.
The islands are Petite Boule, Grosse Boule, Grande Basque, Petite Basque, île du Corossol, île Manowin and the îlets De Quen.
Park systems are included, but not ranked because park systems are networks that contain multiple parks.
The ranch also had Japanese silkie bantam chickens, Buff Cochin bantams, White King pigeons, "several varieties of pheasants, twelve varieties of doves, and several hundred finches, canaries, and other small birds," and ostriches.
A potential eastward extension of Rail Deck Park to include Oxford Place could place the park among the largest rail deck parks in the world, with a total combined park area of nearly 10.5 hectares (26 acres).
The west of the park is clearly narrowed between Notre-Dame-en-Saint-Melaine to the north and the Anne de Bretagne college to the south; it can be accessed by Place Saint-Melaine, the closest entrance to the center of the city.
The resulting lake is 3,050 acres (1,230 ha) in total area, has 75 miles (121 km) of shoreline, and is 18 miles (29 km) long.
The 583 km2 (225 sq mi) park land was developed for use by Canadian Forces Base Wainwright and comprises the majority of its space.
The train then climbs up a small slope and enters into a pre-lift hill brake run, to reduce stress on the ride.
At the end of the Punic invasion the owners had never recovered it so it had escaped the clutches of the Carthaginians.
Built following plans by Georg Wenzeslaus von Knobelsdorff it arose as a representation of the revived interest in garden architecture.
In some states, such as Illinois, park districts are also authorized to have their own park police departments, independent of the other local police departments or state or national park police.
Heyns notified the media via a press release that the university would build a fence around the property and begin construction.
Its source is located at 39°56′52″N 111°40′37″W, the confluence of Shram Creek and an unnamed creek that flows through the Frank Young Canyon.
2024 California Supreme Court decision On June 6, 2024, the California Supreme Court unanimously sided with the university in an appeal to begin construction on the site.
Park Place (formerly Molson Park) is a power centre located in the south end of Barrie, Ontario, Canada.
State statutes often have a general law to provide for park districts' creation, dissolution, geographic borders, and annexation; the selection of governing boards, often referred to as park boards; and the criteria for levying property taxes on behalf of the district.
History Since the establishment of Haddenham & Thame Parkway station in 1987, there have been calls for a safe walking and cycling link between Haddenham and Thame.
See also List of parks in Columbus, Ohio References External links Official website Scioto Mile page
Concert venue In 1987, the Toronto-based Edgefest began looking for a new open-air venue to support large acts.
It claims on its website to have the largest membership of any polo club in Europe, and is one of the four polo clubs in the United Kingdom that stage elite high goal tournaments; the others are the Cirencester Park, Cowdray Park and Royal County of Berkshire Polo Club.
On February 3, 2025, Westside Park was renamed to Shirley Clarke Franklin Park, in honor of the former mayor of Atlanta.
It is not waymarked, but is recognised by the Long Distance Walkers Association, and by several commercial companies which offer packaged walking holidays over the route.
It is also a popular tourist attraction since it is much closer to the centre of the city than the larger Soviet war memorial at Treptower Park.
History The road originally opened as Dart Boulevard on June 16, 1987 as a two-mile stretch between U.S.
The area contained a building for public balls and concerts as well as a park, and was used for balls, concerts, fire works, military parades and all sorts of artists performances against an entrance fee.
In the centre of the delta lies Lithuania's largest island, Rusnė Island (5 km²), and its eponymous village.
The creation of the botanical garden and its collection of plants was the work of Professor Jean Danthon.
Grace had a fondness for horticulture and studied art and horticulture at The Ohio State University.
History Biography and memorial plans Sonny Bono was an entertainer whose acting and singing with his wife, Cher, made him a celebrity during the 1960s and 1970s.
An old mill pond with a many stepped weir and a few mill stones are all that remains of Carters Mill (an old corn mill).
Description "Parks" in this context may be broadly defined by some systems in this context and may include forests, wildlife preserves, deserts, beaches, and even protected culturally/historically important manmade environments and monuments.
The park suffered from its breeding success and the limited understanding of how to manage such wildlife populations.
See also Paleontology Prehistoric life Timeline of geography, paleontology, biology Synchrotron X-ray tomographic microscopy Fossil Parks of India List of fossil sites == References ==
Following Ferreira Leal's rearrangement of the park, the Passeio quickly become a social meeting place for the aristocracy of Lisbon.
The endangered Gurney's pitta (Hydrornis gurneyi) was rediscovered in the area of the proposed park in 2003.
Attractions Alma Park Zoo was fully landscaped with walking paths through tropical gardens under a canopy of rainforest trees and plants.
History Natural urban beaches by the sea have attracted both tourists and locals for a long time, such as the Copacabana of Rio, the central beach of San Sebastián, or the City Beach in Stralsund.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
A diversion of certain paths was carried out in 2010 around the cedar near the menagerie, in order to preserve the roots.
Two proposals were considered, but the preferred design consisted of a semicircular concept, with the centre containing a water feature and shrubs of the national colours planted around the park.
It consists of approximately 56,000 acres (230 km2) and is the largest privately owned nature preserve in the Southeastern United States.
The monument and its tanks are a background feature of Rory's jet-lagged run in Tom Hanks' short story "A Junket in the City of Light".
The Office of Public Works stated that the damage had resulted from the failure of the earlier repairs.
This variety of species is joined by brown trout, char and rainbow trout where the streams enter the lake, and by eels and burbot on the lake bed.
The conches on the sides, arranged into the shape of waterfalls and the great shell inside, made from many real shells, are a characteristic theme of Rococo.
The trail began as the Okeechobee Segment of the Florida National Scenic Trail (FNST), a 1,000 mile trail that runs from Miami to Pensacola.
In addition, it is possible that a moraine (deposit of rock material that is transported with the glacier) prevents the runoff.
Puente de Vallecas Parque Lineal del Manzanares (also in Usera); 97.3 ha in the municipality of Madrid.
The ancient texts of India refer to Mandala Vatikas that were dedicated to deities such as Ganesha, Durga, Lakshmi, Shiva, Kartikeya, to planets and even to constellations (Nakshatra Vana), so that individuals could meditate in these groves.
History The park is located in land previously part of the San Luis farm, which was expropirated by the government of President Eduardo Frei Montlava which was sold to the Las Condes Municipality.
The reserve serves as a haven for the locally threatened gopher tortoise, an inhabitant of longleaf pine forests.
La Demajagua functions as a museum of site and collaborates with local schools, particularly in Manzanillo, to promote historical education.
A park may feature walking paths and decorative landscaping, while a park intended to provide recreation for children may include a playground.
At the entrance, on the ground, is a plaque that reads as follows: IN MEMORY OF MY FRIEND SONNY BONO 1935-1998; ENTERTAINER - ENTREPRENEUR - STATESMAN - FRIEND.
Little Switzerland and tourism The Little Switzerland term refers to the coast and countryside around Lynton and Lynmouth, including the Valley of Rocks, Watersmeet and Heddon Valley.
A similar project in Metro Manila, the Pasig River Esplanade, is a planned 25-kilometre (16-mile) linear park, of which about 1.1 km (0.68 mi) have been completed in several sections.
The tunnel was originally built by the Great Southern and Western Railway company to connect Kingsbridge station to the Dublin Docklands, and primarily used for freight.
Access European route E60 București – Moviliţa – Urziceni – National road DN2A Slobozia – Țăndărei – Giurgeni – bridge Giurgeni-Vadu Oii == References ==
As of 2015, the park, covering an area of 108,000 hectares (1,080 km2), was projected to be open by 2021.
While the walls prevent wind damage to the fruit, they also retain nighttime humidity, creating a microclimate within the garden that is much cooler and more humid than the surrounding environment.
John Knox, president of the Vancouver Southsiders, described Empire as their ancestral home and that "it gave us a taste of the experience our parents and their parents had when going to matches in Vancouver." TransLink served the stadium with the routes 28 and 135.
In 1999, Haddenham Safe Walking and Cycling group, also known as HaddSWAC, was established by Robyn Thorogood to campaign for this link.
Taylorsville Lake State Park is a public recreation area encompassing more than 1,650 acres (670 ha) in Spencer County, Kentucky, roughly midway between Louisville and Lexington.
During World War II the pool was drained and part of Chestnut Avenue was used for Camp Griffiss, the first headquarters of SHAEF and the base where D-Day was planned.
Serpentine South Serpentine South, previously known as the Serpentine Gallery, was established in 1970 and is housed in a Grade II listed former tea pavilion built in 1933–34 by the architect James Grey West.
There are several buildings within the park, such as the My Art Space, a studio-cafe that hosts art classes.
She was responsible for identifying the plant Gelsemium elegans as a possible cause of the poisoning of Alexander Perepilichny in 2015.
The Austin to Manor Trail is a multi-use cycling and pedestrian trail in Travis County, Texas, United States.
Gallery See also List of individual trees References External links Media related to Hollow Tree at Wikimedia Commons
Around 1800 the official name was changed to Batthyány-erdő (Batthyány Forest) after its tenants, the Batthyány family.
National Association of State Park Directors is an organization dedicated to the preservation of state parks in the United States.
In 1988 the Wildlife Institute of India recommended that Mannarkkadu Valley 225.00 km2 be established as a protected area.
Overview The Club is based at Smiths Lawn, in Windsor Great Park, which is thought to have been named after a game keeper at the time of the Stuart Restoration.
PVC is a plastic that is a rot proof alternative to wood, and is often used on homes to prevent rot or siding damage.
History After World War II, many communities in the United States were designed to facilitate easy and fast access to destinations via automobile.
(Wilder was later sold to Memorial for expansion.) July: The Corps of Engineers determined that potential flooding was a factor as to whether the road should be built.
When the elder Raisley Calvert died in 1791, his sons inherited his substantial assets and land holdings in Keswick, including the family home, Greta Bank.
Mound Excavations at Moundville: Architecture, Elites, and Social Order (University of Alabama Press; 2010) 404 Knight, Vernon James Jr.
He was born in Greystoke, Cumberland, where his father—also called Raisley—was steward for the Duke of Norfolk's estate at Greystoke Castle.
It is important that the origin of the seeds is well specified, clarifying whether they were collected outside or inside the botanical garden itself.
Simmonds identified sesame in the food from Pret a manger eaten by Natasha Ednan-Laperouse before her allergic reaction and death in 2016.
In 2008, FEDENATUR promoted a Recommendation – that was approved- at the IUCN World Congress in favour of protecting periurban natural areas around cities and metropolitan areas.
Set into this dike at one end of the park are flood control machinery and a lock for moving boats into and out of the lake.
In 1814, the count of Ferrières, extraordinary commissioner sent to Brittany by Louis XVIII, decides that the bishop can recover his old pleasure garden: the public promenade is thereby shortened.
The Lake Okeechobee Scenic Trail (LOST) is a 109-mile multi-use path around Lake Okeechobee, the seventh largest lake in the United States and the largest in the state of Florida.
Over 33,000 acres (130 km2) are now protected in the Montgomery County, Maryland portion and provide welcome green space in this urbanized region.
Features Each year the park is features numerous exciting events such as Thunder Over Louisville, Forecastle Festival, WFPK Waterfront Wednesdays, Fridays at the Front, Fourth of July at Waterfront Park, and the Juneteenth Jubilee Celebration.
This route remained the only winter season route to the outside world until the railroad arrived in Utah in the late 1860s.
Asclepius' staff with a snake coiled round it (known as a symbol of the medical professions) was placed at the base of the seal to emphasise the medical interests of the School.
With the support and patronization of Chairman of Summit Group Muhammed Aziz Khan, sculptor Hamiduzzaman Khan began working on the sculptures for the park.
Even in rural areas, greenways provide residents access to open land managed as parks, as contrasted with land that is vegetated but inappropriate for public use, such as agricultural land.
Text of the Open Spaces Act 1906 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
Alberta Parks is a division of the Ministry of Forestry and Parks of the Government of Alberta which is responsible for managing Alberta's provincial parks and protected areas.
Its current appearance is the result of anastylosis (reconstruction using the original material) carried out – controversially – between 1956 and 1959.
However The Cambridge Dictionary of English Place-Names (2004) simply says the reason for the addition is unknown.
The site previously hosted the Pulzor neighborhood, whose residents were primarily engaged in floriculture, producing rosewater and various herbal infusions from flowers and plant roots.
This park is one of the beautiful areas in Barisal with a playground, walkway, helipad, many trees and an adjacent lake.
Location The Cathedral Park is located behind the Metropolitan Cathedral, between the Bega Canal, King Ferdinand Boulevard and 16 December 1989 Boulevard, with a total area of 45,400 m2, of which 38,000 m2 of lawn and trees and 2,900 m2 of alleys.
To accommodate this new hall, the only remaining room in the old house of the estate's last owner had to be repurposed.
The First World War Memorial colonnade, which had been built as part of the Hall of Memory to designs by S.
The New National Gallery, the most significant element of the project, is due to be completed by 2028.
2021 occupation In January 2021, UC Berkeley erected fences around portions of People's Park to take core samples of the soil composition in preparation for construction.
It says "The Selinuntines are victorious thanks to the gods Zeus, Phobos, Heracles, Apollo, Poseidon, the Tyndaridae, Athena, Demeter, Pasicrateia and other gods, but especially thanks to |eus.
As part of the redevelopment plans, a set of Olympic Airways airliners that had remained at the airport since its closure – a Boeing 747, Boeing 727, Boeing 737 and a BAC One-Eleven – were acquired by Lamda Development, with the intention to preserve them and place them on display at the park.
It passes through Ambleside and Coniston, and on via Eskdale, reaching its furthest west on the way to Wasdale.
In 2011, the archaeologist, Andreas Haasis-Berner, published an article stating that they had to date to the period between 700 and 900.
The park includes multiple attractions, including a Children´s Park, Birdcage, Skate park, Rose garden and multiple sport areas.
These physical indicators—such as worn-down keys on a keyboard, chew marks on a pen, or paint transfers on road guardrails—provide an unbiased record of how an object or environment is actually used.
Alex Asase; Alfred A Oteng-Yeboah; George T Odamtten; Monique S J Simmonds; Asase, A.; Oteng-Yeboah, A.A.; Odamtten, G.T.; Simmonds, M.S.J.
For example, the beach of Barcola is connected to the center of Trieste by bus and people of all ages take the opportunity to spend their free time by the sea.
The petition was subsequently denied by the German federal government, which iterated that it would honor the 1990 Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany requiring it to maintain Soviet war memorials.
For something that was in the scheme of life pretty short-term, it was just an incredible relationship." Simon began planning a way to memorialize Bono in the nation's capital as a way to cope with the loss of his friend.
Gutach includes six villages: Gutach Bleibach Siegelau Stollen Kregelbach Oberspitzenbach Twin towns Worthing, United Kingdom External links Official website of the municipality == References ==
NRW announced they hope to hold two further consultations in autumn 2024 and 2025, as the boundaries of the park become more refined.
History In 1960, sisters Grace and Mary Innis purchased a 38-acre slice of land that would become Inniswood Metro Gardens.
In 1984, Inniswood Metro Gardens was open to the public as the eighth Columbus and Franklin County Metro Park.
Monique Sheelagh Jacquard Simmonds (born February 1950) is a British chemist and botanist who is deputy keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Queen Sirikit Botanic Garden (QSBG) is a botanical garden in Mae Rim District, Chiang Mai Province, Thailand.
The rooms for business, reception and coinage were on the first floor, the meeting rooms and cafeteria on the fourth floor, and the boiler room in the basement.
The announcement was made by Toronto Mayor John Tory and Joe Cressy, city councillor representing the Trinity—Spadina ward who described the project as a legacy for the city.
Many influential garden designers of the Italian Renaissance drew inspiration from the novel's garden concepts, incorporating them into their own designs.
2024 incident In 2024, David Ordoñez Castillo, a 17 year old park patron, died following a series of seizures after riding the rollercoaster.
There are four types of trails: the national scenic trails, national historic trails, national recreation trails, and connecting or side trails.
It provides stroke rehabilitation to patients of all ages, inpatient rehabilitation to older people, and residential care to older people.
Enclosed, padded, constrained, low structures may prevent children from taking risks and developing a sense of mastery over their environment.
When conditions appear favourable for the opening the lake, daily ice measurements are taken by the Titisee-Neustadt municipal authorities at three or four places.
The delta undergoes annual flooding, but the greatest threats to its integrity are posed by pollution, agriculture, the fishing industry, and tourism.
While the locations, elements, and uses of pocket parks vary considerably, the common defining characteristic of a pocket park is its small size.
In some jurisdictions, furniture used in public parks is made by prison inmates as part of prison work programs.
The case involved five fields (13 hectares) in south Lancaster, the Moorside Fields, owned by Lancashire County Council.
The Balta Mică a Brăilei Natural Park (Romanian: Parcul Natural Balta Mică a Brăilei) is a protected area (natural park category V IUCN) which is situated in Romania, in Brăila County, on the administrative territory of communes Berteștii de Jos, Chiscani, Gropeni, Mărașu and Stăncuța.
The Grans Octoberfest and the music festival Fjordfesten take place here, as well as a seasonal amusement park (tivoli).
However, pocket parks are typically designed for human use and therefore may only provide limited ecological benefits to non-human species.
Birds ringed at the Cape have been found migrating to Iran, Egypt and even to the Republic of South Africa.
In the 297 years after the statue was relocated to its current site in the park, many of the waterspouts became clogged and only four were functioning before the renovations of 2009/10.
Both the Lions and Whitecaps moved to the newly constructed, then 60,000 seat BC Place for the 1983 season.
Badeparken ("the Bathing Park") is a 12-acre (4.8 ha) public park in the city centre of Sandefjord, Norway.
2022 demolition effort Just after midnight on August 3, 2022, the UC Berkeley Police Department and contractors began fencing off People's Park.
Fishing is the main attraction, as Taylorsville Lake is the most heavily stocked lake in the Commonwealth of Kentucky; it is known for its bluegill, and features bass and crappie.
Europe Gardening was not recognized as an art form in Europe until the mid 16th century when it entered the political discourse, as a symbol of the concept of the "ideal republic".
From October 2012 to March 2013, Los Angeles research collaborative Parklet Studies to design and implement a one-year study of the Parklets in downtown Los Angeles.
List of botanical gardens See also List of botanical gardens in India List of botanical gardens Ministry of Environment and Forests (India) References External links Botanic Garden Conservation International's garden search database
A sculpture garden may be private, owned by a museum and accessible freely or for a fee, or public and accessible to all.
The plants were sourced from Indonesia, Malaysia, and other nearby countries as well as Queensland, Australia, for the foxtail palm trees.
The Donnafugata Garden On 12 September 2008, the Fondo Ambiente Italiano (Italian Environment Fund) received a donation of a Pantellerian garden from the Sicilian winery Donnafugata.
In 2015, Hélène Littke noted that the "High Line in New York City started a worldwide trend of elevated parks", and new elevated parks are often compared to it.
Some have claimed that transportation engineers in the US have become too focused on separating cyclists from pedestrians and motorists.
It is to include a park as well as luxury homes, hotels, a casino, a marina, shops, and offices and will have Greece's tallest buildings reaching up to 200 metres (660 ft) in height.
The site had been a place where one could find trash, weeds, and rats, making it an unsightly area of the neighborhood.
An iPad-only application, iSOPARC, is developed by CIAFEL, a research center at the University of Porto, with the contribution of Dr.McKenzie, the original developer of SOPARC.
1974 April: The project was approved as an official project for study by the State Tollways Authority.
The Hellinikon Metropolitan Park (also called "the Ellinikon") is an urban development under construction in Hellinikon, Athens, Greece, on the site of the former Hellenikon International Airport.
This park also displays several diesel engines, valves, and pipes that once were part of the flood control facility.
There is a group of such burials, having mounds of similar size and situated on a hilltop or similar location.
Their height can vary from one to over three meters, depending on the size of the plants grown within them (almost always citrus fruits).
Prior to post-World War II border changes, it was known in German as the Memel Niederung, as the Neman was for centuries called the Memel in German.
Lucky Tor An island divides the flow, with a long boulder garden down the left, and easy rapids to a steeper exit on the right.
They claimed the consultants - Wilbur Smith and Associates and Howard, Needles, Tammen and Bergendoff - have provided studies for toll roads in Florida that were failing financially.
The plan was a portion of the extensive Beltline project to construct a ring of parks, trails, and transit surrounding the core of Atlanta.
The Neptune Grotto (German: Neptungrotte) close to the Obelisk entrance in Sanssouci Park, Potsdam, was created by Frederick the Great between 1751 and 1757 (1757) to beautify the park.
Landscape architect George Kessler designed extensive parkway systems for Kansas City, Missouri; Memphis, Tennessee; Indianapolis; and other cities at the beginning of the 20th century.
$5–6 million was estimated for its repairs, and with the extensive renovation of the Scioto's riverfront, the ship had to be relocated.
Role of Unions: While union membership has declined in recent decades, unions still play a crucial role in the collective bargaining process, representing workers in negotiations with employers.
She received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Radcliffe College of Harvard University in 1987 and a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School in 1992.
The report shocked public opinion and calls were made to imprison, flog and pillory recalcitrant factory owners.
The whole act, except sections 64(1)–(3), 72, 73, 80(3)–(5), 80(13) and 81(14), and the short title in section 115, was repealed by section 133 of, and the seventh schedule to, the National Health Insurance Act 1924 (14 & 15 Geo.
In committee, Lord Ashley moved an amendment to the bill's clause 2, which defined the terms used in subsequent (substantive) clauses; his amendment changed the definition of 'night' to 6 p.m.
Anonymous reporting mechanisms, as mentioned previously, help foster a climate whereby employees are more likely to report or seek guidance regarding potential or actual wrongdoing without fear of retaliation.
This constitutional provision was implemented by the Labor Court Act, which entered into force on October 1, 1953, and established the Federal Labor Court.
Graham amended the educational clauses, but this only triggered a fresh round of indignation meetings and a fresh round of petitions (11,839 petitions and 1,920,574 signatures).
Esping-Andersen traces in this persistency the origins of the chronically high Italian unemployment rates.
In June 2022, the Office of the Chief Justice warned the public that somebody impersonating Mabindla-Boqwana had contacted several people and entities to request private and sensitive information.
Following its creation in 2000 the Global Compact initially focused on support for Ten Principles and the Millennium Development Goals.
Unpaid care and domestic work sustain households and contribute to the reproduction of the labor force across generations.
The Employee Relations Law Journal is a legal journal which publishes articles in the field of labor and employment law.
Romme also worked as an associate professor of labour law at Tilburg University from 1 January 1933 until 1 January 1935 and as a distinguished professor of Labour law, administrative law and constitutional law and at Tilburg University from 1 January 1935 until 24 June 1937.
Part III: Wages, Special Clothing and Records The general minimum increased from $17.40 per hour to $17.85 per hour on June 1, 2025.
The issue to be decided was whether employees of a nationalised industry (in this case British Gas plc) could rely upon the Equal Treatment Directive when making claims in the English courts.
See also Parental leave Garden leave Leisure Paid Educational Leave Convention, 1974 Sabbatical Career break References External links Full Text of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 - FMLA - 29 U.S.
As of April 2024, there were 23,571 pending cases with the labour courts and the Labour Appellate Tribunal.
Subsequent developments The whole act so far as it related to collieries were repealed by section 126 of, and the fourth schedule to, the Coal Mines Act 1911 (1 & 2 Geo.
Finance Both the contributory and non-contributory benefits are financed through a 1.55% contribution by employees and 5,5% by employers on employees salaries up to 3262 euros per month Unemployment Benefits and the Disabled There are many people with disabilities in Spain.
Congress passed China’s Employment Contracts Act in 2007 to provide a specific mass layoff procedure aimed at ensuring transparency, consultation, and regulatory oversight before any mass layoffs proceed.
The centre's mandate include reduction in cost and delays in judicial delivery through efficient, fast and equitable settlement of disputes.
The inspectors reported that magistrates habitually did so, and to an extent which defeated the law; it was more profitable to break the law and pay the occasional fine than to comply with the act.
Edward Sadlowski (September 10, 1938 – June 10, 2018) was an American labor activist associated with Steelworkers Fight Back, a rank-and-file movement against corruption in the international United Steelworkers of America union.
Pakistan According to Section 27 of the Contract Act, 1872, any agreement that restrains a person from exercising a lawful profession, trade or business is void.
Article 16 makes clear that member states may have more favourable provisions and may not regress in standards.
Its promulgation enraged the sans-culottes, who called for an end to the National Constituent Assembly, which nonetheless continued through the second phase of the Revolution.
The authors of the Marjolin Report state: "...the means of redressing imbalances between Community countries should be considerably reinforced….
No progress had been made with the government bill when the death of King William, and the consequent dissolution of parliament, brought the session to an end.
Political career In the late 1960s, Sauquillo joined the clandestine union Acción Sindical de Trabajadores (AST), one of the groups that would give rise, in 1969, to the Workers' Revolutionary Organization (ORT), and would later assume Maoist ideology.
United Kingdom The UK's main piece of legislation falls under the Employment Agencies Act 1973, which required licensing until 1994.
This explains the fact that the Articles 117 and 118 of the European Economic Community treaty are soft in nature, while in contrast the hard Articles 119 and 120 of the EEC treaty have a limited scope.
Night working was forbidden for anyone under 21 and if a mill had been working at night the onus of proof was on the millowner (to show nobody under-age had been employed).
Since 2000, the board has ruled for whistleblowers just three times in 56 cases decided on their merits, according to a Government Accountability Project (GAP) analysis.
Goldstein Memorial Prize in Labor Law and served as an editor of the University of Pennsylvania Law Review.
History of labor law in the United States refers to the development of United States labor law, or legal relations between workers, their employers and trade unions in the United States of America.
Around a hundred employment lawyers signed a petition against it, referring to her lack of experience, notwithstanding the support of the APM.
"Law, Lawyers and Labor: The United Farm Workers’ Legal Strategy in the 1960s and 1970s and the Role of Law in Union Organizing Today." Pennsylvania Journal of Labor & Employment Law.
The anti-gag statute is a little-known legal boundary in the long struggle in the United States between Executive Branch secrecy and the United States Congress and the public's right to know.
After transitioning to law, he clerked for Judge Leonard Garth of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit from 1989 to 1990 and then worked as an associate at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett in New York City.
Recent Asian Regional Congresses were hosted in Manilla and Taipai, and recent European Regional Congresses were held in Stockholm, Bologna, Sevilla (2011) and Dublin (2014).
Under the act, regulations and rules came into force on 2 December 1802 and applied to all textile mills and factories employing three or more apprentices or twenty employees.
Since the cantons in the arrangement of their administrative law are largely autonomous, all cantons have their own regulations for public employment.
ISBN 978-84-460-4850-3 2020: Desafío, el virus no es el único peligro, Ediciones Akal ISBN 978-84-460-4975-3 2020: El pueblo gitano contra el sistema mundo.
For over-25 year old employees, the wage began at £7.20 per hour in April 2016 and was projected to rise to at least £9 per hour by April 2020.
However, there are specific exemptions for people working in non-hazardous occupations such as the entertainment industry.
The Office of Labor-Management Standards, part of the United States Department of Labor, is required to collect all collective bargaining agreements covering 1,000 or more workers, excluding those involving railroads and airlines.
The NES have applied to employees since 1 January 2010, having replaced the previous five entitlement standard (called the Australian Fair Pay and Conditions Standard) under the WorkChoices legislation.
Pangilinan welcomed proposals from the Department of Agriculture to increase rice import tariffs and urged that tariff collections must reach and directly benefit farmers, warning that the law had not delivered intended support.
After one year of uninterrupted membership to an unemployment fund, and six months of half-time work, a worker is entitled to receive an earnings-related daily allowance of up to 80% of his or her regular income (with a maximum of 680 SEK per day) for the first 200 days.
Judgement themselves are to be done by consensus, or a majority vote where consensus cannot be found and all judgements are to be communicated in writing to complainant and the Institution involved, with the reasons for the judgement clearly outlined.
These dress codes may also contain specifications related to the wearing of cosmetics and heels and the styling of hair.
An undue hardship is an American and Canadian legal term referring to special or specified circumstances that partially or fully exempt a person or organization from performance of a legal obligation so as to avoid an unreasonable or disproportionate burden or obstacle.
Resignation of Integrity Commissioner In October 2010 the head of OPSIC, Public Sector Integrity Commissioner Christiane Ouimet, unexpectedly resigned less than halfway through her seven-year term, following media reports that she was under investigation by Canada's Auditor General.
Section 17 made requirements for the safeguarding of machinery but was repealed and superseded by the Provision and Use of Work Equipment Regulations 1992 between 1 January 1993 and 1 January 1997.
Venezuelan labour law is covered by the Ley Orgánica del Trabajo, los Trabajadores y las Trabajadoras (2012), and underpinned by parts of the Constitution of Venezuela which cover labour rights.
This decision ultimately became an important precedent that it is illegal to discharge an employee due to expressing milk or lactation.
Essential minimum services and abusive minimum services There may be disagreements about what is considered an essential service and what is not.
The term is also applied to special arrangements between private corporations and government entities, whereby the corporation and sometimes a government official reap the benefits, rather than the public.
Today, the primary mission of OSC is to safeguard the merit system by protecting federal employees and applicants from prohibited personnel practices, especially reprisal for whistleblowing.
History The then Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announced, at the end of his budget speech on 8 July 2015, a new national minimum wage rate for people over the age of 25, which he termed the "National Living Wage".
Although many anti-sweatshop campaigners would like for globalization to be reversed and factories to close, citizens of these developed countries do not have many options for alternative work.
It has failed to ratify the two basic onventions of the International Labour Organization on freedom of association and collective bargaining, and on the abolition of child labour.
The framework also matches empirical findings on the shares of average earnings losses following displacement that are due to reduced employment and lower wages." Weinstein, Bruce, "Downsizing 101", BusinessWeek magazine, September 12, 2008.
Contemporary examples In a report released on November 26, 2011, a Palm Beach County organization, People Engaged in Active Community Efforts (PEACE), sent postcards to Macy's and Bealls executives as a form of protest.
Pompeyo Benito Guloy and Jimmy Bulosan Ramil, both members of Local 37 and of the Tulisan gang, were found guilty of first degree murder and sentenced to life in prison.
A French law passed in the National Assembly on 17 February 2015 and effective from the end of 2015 imposed statutory minimum wage regulations on foreign truck drivers plying international routes to and from France and undertaking cabotage in the country.
In this model, seven harassing behaviors were classified into three levels of severity: less severe, moderately severe, and most severe.
Whistle-blowing Policy in Nigeria is an anti-corruption programme that encourages people to voluntarily disclose information about fraud, bribery, looted government funds, financial misconduct, government assets, and any other form of corruption or theft to the Nigeria's Federal Ministry of Finance.
Since 1948, he headed the Permanent Commission for Open Trials on the Most Important Cases of former servicemen of the German army and German punitive bodies, exposed of atrocities against Soviet citizens in the temporarily occupied territory of the Soviet Union.
The foreign country where someone seeks to obtain a work permit for is also known as the "country of work", as opposed to the "country of origin" where someone holds citizenship or nationality.
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 159 of, and the fourth schedule to, the Factories Act 1937 (1 Edw.
Career and further education Summers' brother had enlisted in the United States Army at the beginning of World War II.
In the United States, commercial law is the province of both the United States Congress, under its power to regulate interstate commerce, and the states, under their police power.
There is a prohibition on any employer treating an employee as if the person is not an employee under the Act.
8) amended the 1998 act to allow employees to claim back payments from a previous employer of an employee in cases where the previous employer failed to pay them the minimum wage.
Many labor leaders, including the leadership of the AFL–CIO, supported the legislation, including testifying in support at congressional hearings.
The Labour Court (Dutch: Arbeidsrechtbank, French: Tribunal du travail, German: Arbeitsgericht) in Belgium is a court which deals in first instance with disputes between employers and employees and disputes regarding social security.
Even though domestic work is the fastest-growing sector of women and girls' employment in urban India, the country lacks a separate law for domestic workers' safety and social security.
The terms of a 2008 plea bargain to settle criminal charges against financier Jeffrey Epstein have been called a sweetheart deal by many commentators.
Collective contracts (established by article 4) were negotiated following the issuing of the Charter of Labour, but with the effect of a decrease in wages.
The Highlands and Islands Medical Service was established in the crofting counties on a non-contributory basis in 1913.
In summer 2015, Blair's law firm accepted a large fee to advise the Maldives government as it faced a challenge from former Maldivian president Mohamed Nasheed over his imprisonment for "terrorism".
On November 5, the House agreed to the Senate's amendment by a vote of 403–12, sending the bill to President Barack Obama's desk.
In 2018, legislative battles over it and the largely public union organizations it has jurisdiction over were taking place.
The difference between the two classifications depends on the permanency of the employment, opportunity for profit and loss, the worker's level of self-employment along with their degree of control.
For example, countries with more permissive labor laws may see higher rates of unionization and collective bargaining coverage.
The Government of Canada introduced multiple temporary social security and financial aid programs in response to the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in Canada.
The Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth) is an act of the Parliament of Australia, passed by the Rudd government to reform the industrial relations system of Australia.
Subsequently, Constitutional Amendment number 19 relaxed this requirement by establishing the possibility of adopting the statutory regime or Hired Under Employment Laws, but was reinstated after the foregoing assessment of ADIn 2135.
This presumption may be rebutted when the agreement is in writing and contains an explicit provision asserting that it should be legally enforceable.
The issue was first raised by Robert Michels in his Political Parties and termed the Iron law of oligarchy: all forms of organization, regardless of how democratic or autocratic they may be at the start, will eventually and inevitably develop into oligarchies.
The 8th Circuit Court of Appeals stayed the District Court's ruling, and the lockout continued pending a final determination in the appellate court.
He received a Bachelor of Civil Law degree in 1978 and a Bachelor of Law degree in 1979 from McGill University.
Former non-sovereign state members The ILO constitution indicates that members must be states (initially, although not exclusively, members of the League of Nations or, after 1945, members of the United Nations), which has been interpreted to imply those entities with state sovereignty.
15) again set a twelve-hour day, its main provisions being: Children 9–13 years could work for 9 hours a day with a lunch break.
If no cause exists yet the employer dismisses without providing lawful notice, then the dismissal is a wrongful dismissal.
He was replaced in 2006 and later was appointed head of McGill University's government relations and inter-institutional affairs office, effective January 3, 2007.
See also German labour law Notes References Hans Jürgen Teuteberg, Geschichte der Industriellen Mitbestimmung (1961)
Health (general provisions) Sections 1 to 7 define general broad requirements for healthy factory working conditions: Cleanliness; Overcrowding; Temperature; Ventilation; Lighting; Drainage of floors; and Sanitary conveniences.
Contents The Act provides for fixing wage rate (time, piece, guaranteed time, overtime) for any industry .
This crucial role in collective bargaining is why the right to strike is constitutionally protected by s.
During this assessment, states enjoy a margin of appreciation of varied scope, depending on the specific circumstances.
His political opponents mocked the thought of Lord John Russell turning his undoubted talents to the production of a reading primer, and it was soon announced that once the bill went into committee it would be amended to restore the 1833 education clauses.
Sadler, as chairman of the committee, reported the minutes of evidence on 8 August 1832, when they were ordered to be printed.
In the general election, Green finished well ahead of his three opponents, including Communist Party leader William Ross.
More recent review and analysis of the Act In 2017 the Standing Committee on Government Operations and Estimates (known as OGGO) was asked by the government to conduct a review of the Act.
The formula ensures that any individual working 40 hours per week (be it from one or more jobs) will be able to afford basic food, clothing, shelter (an efficiency apartment), and public transportation, wherever that work is done throughout the United States.
In order to become eligible for unemployment benefits, one must become part of one of the twenty four private and state approved Insurance funds; these funds are commonly known in Denmark as A-kasser's or A-kasse.
The draft Bill was reviewed and critiqued with amendments, and the amended bill resubmitted to the government.
There was no requirement on local authorities for enforcement (or penalties for non-enforcement) of legislation for workshops.
Judgments of the Labour Court can be appealed to the Labour Appeal Court or the Supreme Court of Appeals which in turn can be appealed to the Constitutional Court of South Africa.
The second reading of Poulett Thomson's Bill was opposed by Ashley, who denounced the bill as a feeler towards total repeal of protection for factory children.
According to the Federal Statistical Office of Germany, in 2021, the average number of leave days taken was 32.2 days.
Whether respondents did not want to label their experiences as rape or if they feared that their perpetrator was going to be punished the use of language was leading to inaccurate results.
The determination of minimum services in crucial services is sometimes a limitation of the right to strike, which matches the corresponding governmental authority in each State.
She remained minister in charge of HRDC until Paul Martin became Prime Minister on December 12, 2003.
– after allowing 90 minutes for meal breaks only ten-and-a-half hours could be worked; this passed by nine votes.
The following sections were repealed in part and superseded by the Pressure Systems and Transportable Gas Containers Regulations 1989 on 1 July 1994: 32 Steam boilers – attachments and construction; and steam boilers – maintenance, examination and use.
See also European labour law Trade unions in Turkey Demir and Baykara v Turkey (2008) Yazar, Karatas, Aksoy and Hep v Turkey (2003) 36 EHRR 59 == References ==
Its South Texas Project, led by Harrington, became the Texas Civil Rights Project in September 1990.
Francis Pancratius "Kiko" Nepomuceno Pangilinan ([paŋɪˈlinan]; born August 24, 1963) is a Filipino lawyer, and politician who has served as a senator of the Philippines since 2025.
Background The act was the final consolidation of a line of legislation under Factory Acts that began in 1802.
That came to nothing, and on September 3, 1968, Green announced he would seek the party's leadership himself.
However, these workers were required to prove that they also lost at least 50% of their revenue because of these measures.
Background No national minimum wage existed prior to 1998, although there were a variety of systems of wage controls focused on specific industries under the Trade Boards Act 1909.
The policy was launched on December 21, 2016 by Nigeria's Federal Government and facilitated through the Federal Ministry of Finance.
The report explained that exchange rates between countries reflect economic productivity and, thereby, offset the advantages of lower wages in other States.
The doctrine of International Shoe is broad, but the Court has recognized that it has limits, nevertheless.
Articles 13 to 15 require member states to implement the law, inform people, and evaluate and review it.
Four years later she was appointed Magistrada de Trabajo, employment judge number 1 in Madrid and in 1988 she was appointed to the Employment section of the High Court of Madrid.
743, "the federal whistleblowers have seen their protections diminish in recent years, largely as a result of a series of decisions by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which has exclusive jurisdiction over many cases brought under the Whistleblower Protection Act (WPA).
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 116(2) of, and part I of the seventh schedule to the Unemployment Insurance Act 1935 (25 & 26 Geo.
The Trade Dispute Decree No.7 of 1976 set up the National Industrial Court; initially consisting of a president and four other members and a quorum of the president and two members.
The board usually meets twice a year to determine minimum wages for agricultural workers, and to set conditions for holiday and sick pay entitlement.
The term industrial democracy was also used by British socialist reformers Sidney and Beatrice Webb in their 1897 book Industrial Democracy.
In 1912, the Industrial Arbitration Act of South Australia provided at section 22 that: The Court shall not have power to order or prescribe wages which do not secure to the employee affected a living wage.
The original union put it under trusteeship to block the transfer, and the court upheld the move as legal under the Act.
The Adequate Minimum Wage Directive 2022 (2022/2041) is a European Union Directive on the setting of minimum wages and collective bargaining in EU law.
Starting in 1909, Liberals, led especially by David Lloyd George, promoted the idea of a minimum wage for farm workers.
This process often benefits the employer because it reduces the chances of a strike or legal action, and benefits the employee because it allows them more bargaining power and prevents mass layoffs in a dispute.
But if the employee's Agency has clear and convincing evidence that a personnel action would have been taken against a civilian employee absent their disclosure of alleged wrongdoing, the Inspector General “non-substantiates” the case.
However earlier that week a similar bill had been introduced into the House of Commons by MP John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury that would apply to England and Wales.
In the case that the ECHR ruled on, the company that engaged in forced labor and human trafficking appeared to be owned by the wife of Azerbaijan minister Azad Rahimov.
Law of May 19, 1874 limiting the working time of children under twelve years of age to 6 hours per day in sectors authorized to employ them.
Moreover, the peace obligation does not apply to the secondary action, the general prohibition of industrial action against a neutral third party is lifted, and permissible actions are not limited to walk-outs (can include boycotts, blockades, etc.).
The term was defined by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) in 1990, in the case of Foster, A and others v.
Initially the courts followed a strict interpretation of territorial jurisdiction, where states only had power over property or defendants who were actually present in the state (excepting corporations or residents).
The second is that either party may terminate the employment contract as long as the other party is given notice.
Today industries like screenwriting, hotels, and railroads still see sectoral bargaining predominate.
In his view the CDA too much emphasised policies that resulted in the dismantling of social security.
Since 1988, eight countries have been suspended or terminated from the GSP program: Burma, Liberia, Maldives, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan (several products), Sudan and Syria.
Social Catholicism, particularly the work of René de La Tour du Pin, which emphasized corporate harmony.
2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Section 4207 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R.
European Works Councils (EWC) are information and consultation bodies representing employees in European multinational companies.
Ikoyi Whistle-blower In 2017, a whistler-blower helped the Nigerian government recover 43.5million, GBP27,800, and N23.2 million at No.
This unpaid work contributes a real monetary value to the digital platforms' owners that is included in the GDP, while all the unpaid work is on the wrong side of the production boundary and is therefore not counted.
The act had established wage committees to fix minimum agricultural pay; these, too, were soon abandoned.
According to the Ontario Human Rights Commission, "sexualized" or "gender-specific" dress codes may harm women, reinforce gender stereotypes, and exclude transgender people and other marginalized groups.
The decisions of the Labour Court can be appealed to the Court of Labour (Dutch: Arbeidshof, French: Cour du travail, German: Arbeitsgerichtshof).
He helped enforce the first Russian labour code (1 June 1882) which provided a measure of protection for Russian factory workers.
She retired from politics on February 13, 2004, to become an executive director of the International Labour Organization.
An employee is hired for a trial period that gives the company an opportunity to evaluate an employee's job performance and conduct.
The journal has carried articles on transnational labour law, legal issues concerning immigrant domestic workers, freedom of speech in the workplace, globalization, work–life balance, and more.
The other three are the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, the Industrial Relations Code, and the Code on Social Security, which have been passed in 2020 but not yet come into force because the date of coming into force is yet to be notified in the official gazette.
It replaced the previous Labor Government's Industrial Relations Act 1988 and Industrial Relations Reform Act 1993, and commenced operation on 1 January 1997.
Universal Allocation Per Child (Spanish: Asignación universal por hijo) is a social security program in Argentina.
In an "equivalent" system, a European fund would pay out funds to either the national budget or national unemployment insurance in case unemployment increases steeply in a member state.
A federal agency violates the Whistleblower Protection Act if agency authorities take (or threaten to take) retaliatory personnel action against any employee or applicant because of disclosure of information by that employee or applicant.
The government picked up responsibility for the basic benefits that the unions and societies had promised, thus greatly helping their financial reserves.
carpenters, doctors, lawyers, and plumbers) who control their own work are accountable for their profits and losses.
In the 1990s, MTUC and AWAM joined forces in an awareness campaign that targeted all sections of society.
First it requires the abstraction of a man's labour from both his person and the product of his work.
Uk passed the 1833 Factory Act ] In 1839 Prussia was the first country to pass laws restricting child labor in factories and setting the number of hours a child could work.
Protecting Sources The mechanics of protecting Defense Intelligence Community whistleblowers occurs, in part, through the Inspector General Act passed in 1978.
He was also a prominent Irish nationalist, and in 1919 was arrested and fined for leading a prohibited Saint Patrick's Day march.
The organization was established with 42 states, of which 29 states are considered founder members as signatories to the Versailles Treaty; another 13 states, not signatories, were invited to be members and granted status as founder members.
British Columbia (Council of Human Rights) Work-product doctrine Constructive trust Employment discrimination law in the United States Section 508 Amendment to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Forum non conveniens Chapter 7, Title 11, United States Code Hardship clause == References ==
The report, based on an international survey, details how the laws of each country affect women's abilities to secure employment and start a business.
63 of 1948), as amended by the Factories (Amendment) Act, 1987 (Act 20 of 1987), served to assist in formulating national policies in India with respect to occupational safety and health in factories and docks in India.
This had led to predictions that there could be a "showdown" between the Strasbourg and Luxembourg courts.
Boyle v Equal Opportunities Commission (1998) C-411/96, [1998] ECR I-6401 Mrs Boyle worked for the EOC, which as an emanation of the state, was subject to the Directive with direct effect.
They consider that abusive minimum services cause the strike to cease to be noticed, thus distorting the right to strike.
Case law Manu v Steelink Contracting Services Ltd (1998) WEC2/98 Grey Advertising (New Zealand) Ltd v Marinkovich (1999) AEC 70A/99 == References ==
In 1966, Green won election to the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba for the north-end Winnipeg riding of Inkster.
The law then requires the DNI (or the relevant agency head) to forward the complaint to the congressional intelligence committees, along with any comments he wishes to make about the complaint, within seven days.
Where an employee has had at least one year's service, the employer also faces a separate claim for severance pay (French: indemnité de licenciement).
She is a member of the editorial board of the Industrial Law Journal, the European Labour Law Journal and Current Legal Problems.
The Employment and Social Insurance Act (French: Loi sur le placement et les assurances sociales) was a statute enacted by the Parliament of Canada in 1935 during the final months of the government of R.B.
The Hofstra Labor and Employment Law Journal is an American law journal which publishes articles in the field of labor and employment law.
2007: The Tamil Nadu state government announced that it has fixed minimum wages for 90% of all occupations.
Pre-independence The history of labor disputes in America substantially precedes the Revolutionary period.
Conferences Every two years, Labor Notes holds a national conference that brings together more than a thousand union members and leaders from the United States, Canada, Mexico, and other countries.
Marco Biagi Award The late Italian jurist Marco Biagi was instrumental in forming the Association, originally called the Club of Labour Law Journals, and served as its first president.
These explore topics such as new employment and labor relations laws, regulations, court cases, developments in employee benefits administration, on-the-job safety and health issues, and labor-management relations.
Activity Holding the posts of the Prosecutor General of the Soviet Union and the Minister of Justice of the Soviet Union, he participated in the repressions.
The number of workers affected was expected to be about 4.5 million, forming between 3% and 30% of the workforce in a given area depending on the location.
People operations is a holistic reinvention of traditional human resources, and is tailored to a more modern workplace and work practices, such as remote roles and global teams.
Although the lawsuit was eventually dismissed because the events had taken place before the LMRDA, also known as the Landrum–Griffin Act, had been passed, the case marked the start of a decades-long collaboration between Benson and Summers.
They estimate that it raised wages for farm labourers by 15 per cent by 1929, and by more than 20 per cent in the 1930s.
Announced during the summer of 2007, former Nickelodeon star Amanda Bynes also debuted a clothing line, Dear, on August 16, 2007.
In February 2007, Air Canada Technical Services reached an agreement to acquire 80% of Aeroman, the MRO affiliate of TACA Airlines, a Central American airline.
Originally, it functioned as a price-point retailer at prime locations in town centres, goods were sold using standard prices (hence its name), with everything having a standard price of 10, 25 or 50 cents, and later also 75 and 100 cents.
History Herbal Magic was founded in 1995 by Dieter Decker, who opened his first weight loss and nutrition center in London, Ontario.
The former Sigfox entity had raised more than $300 million from investors that included Salesforce, Intel, Samsung, NTT, SK Telecom, energy groups Total and Air Liquide.
Juventus striker Roberto Baggio became the face of the company in the 1990s, and launched his own personalized football boots, the Matchwinner.
That credit belongs to Blockbuster itself." Commentators view Blockbuster as a main example of failing to change with the times.
The company was criticised in late February 2025 for refusing to accept its own gift vouchers during its closing-down sale.
Fraudulent trading is entirely separate and distinct from "insider trading", which focuses purely upon the abuse of inside information in relation to financial markets for personal financial gain, and is wholly unrelated to creditor's rights or insolvency law.
Four days later, the chain's bankruptcy case was formally converted to Chapter 7, as proceeds from liquidation sales fell short of targets.
However, the phenomenon first emerged in the UK in 2009 when it was reported that German and Austrian nationals were moving to Kent in order to take advantage of bankruptcy laws in England and Wales, whilst residing close to Eurostar.
That takeover required changes in legislation, which at the time prohibited a fixed telephone company from purchasing another fixed telephone company in a different license area.
At the end of this wire the hand–grip would slam into a blocking mechanism and come to a stop about 20 feet (6.1 m) above the water, with the momentum thrusting the hanging rider 20 feet (6.1 m) forward into the lagoon.
Railroad Acquisition Holdings, LLC has established a new railroad named Central Maine and Quebec Railway (reporting mark CMQ) to operate the former MMA rail lines.
According to MMA, losses from operating the lines had reached the point where they were threatening the financial health of the entire railroad.
the equipment and power delivered for the price are outstanding", noting that the $2,795 computer "costs less than many stand-alone hard-disk drives".
Andrew Lutfy, a Quebec businessman who began working as a stock clerk at the first GDI store in 1982, is the owner of Groupe Dynamite.
By the end of 1971, Recrion was planning a $5 million sale of the Aladdin, which would help pay off the resort's debts.
As of late October 2024, the orchestra announced that the bankruptcy had been annulled and that they are rebuilding with a new Board of Directors.
Throughout the mid-1970s, Cuisinart sales rose due to the brand's association with celebrity chefs such as James Beard, a close friend of Sontheimer.
On March 20, 2016, SeaPort Airlines ceased service to North Bend/Coos Bay, and PenAir began service on March 21.
The downtown heliport on East River Pier 6 opened in 1960 and New York Airways moved all its Manhattan passenger flights down there around December 1960.
In February 1981, Metrospan Community Newspapers (a unit of Torstar) and Inland Publishing Company (formerly owned by The Telegram Corporation, owned by the Eaton and Bassett families) merged to become Metroland.
Knights Inn used to be built with all-exterior corridors and medieval-inspired architecture, but the chain now has updated options for all Knights Inn properties.
As the company grew, Mason increased the products’ performance and strength, and he was awarded numerous patents connected with Masonite.
IBBI has regulatory oversight on Insolvency Professionals, Insolvency Professional Agencies, Insolvency Professional Entities and Information Utilities.
Pier 1 filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on February 17, 2020, and on May 19, 2020, announced it was asking the bankruptcy court to close all stores, due in large part to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Canwest also bought broadcasting assets internationally, including outlets in New Zealand, the Republic of Ireland, and Australia, although all were eventually sold off.
Leon Restaurants Limited (branded as LEON) is a fast food chain based in the United Kingdom, established in 2004.
Under the scrapped plan, the $304 million in cash portion of the Greenberg-Ryan group’s May 24 deal with owner Tom Hicks would serve as a minimum bid, with the next bid at least $20 million higher.
2021: Reduction of fleet and closure of long-haul operations In 2021, restructuring continued in order to formulate a sustainable business plan that would allow the airline to both receive further governmental aid and investment from private enterprise.
Today Robertson Properties currently acquires and develops retail, office, and residential properties.
Tandy and Luther Henderson of the Tandy Corporation provided a loan to the California-based Cost Plus Imports chain in exchange for franchise rights.
In 2000, the company changed its name to 360networks Inc., and its United States entity to 360networks (USA)inc., to better describe its 360-degree focus on a global network.
This can be a way for people to deal with debt problems by protecting the debtor from the legal enforcement of debts which are included in the trust deed, but only once it has become protected.
While the Inuit of Fast Runner are depicted in a church, the Inuit of The Journals are represented in contemporary news stories as living in impoverished areas within wealthy nations.
The same private equity firm Wexford Capital eventually became involved with Republic Airways Holdings after disposing of its interests in Midway Airlines along with National Airlines after the 9/11 terrorist attack, which affected the airline industry so drastically.
Accordingly, the documentary claimed it observed Herbal Magic salespeople using tactics that lead customers to overestimate the supplements' effectiveness.
In 1971, Brown bought Ollie Gleichenhaus's "Ollie Burger" recipe for $1 million (equivalent to $7,949,877 in 2025), along with stock in the new company and a ten-year contract for $50,000 a year to appear as the official spokesperson of the Ollieburger on behalf of Lum's.
In the late 1960s, Dorothy Perkins co-funded Biba's expansion into a large boutique on Kensington High Street.
was created by Tandy Corporation in 1986 to operate Radio Shack stores in Canada, Europe and Australia.
Since the airport was self-funded it would charge higher-than-normal landing fees to pay back the bonds.
On September 24, the company announced that it would sell its 50.1% stake in Ten Network Holdings for A$680 million, in order to pay down its significant debt.
The Bon-Ton Stores began the decade by opening more stores, establishing a new division, Maxwell's, and acquiring L S Good, including its Fowler's department stores.
Construction was haphazard; all stores opened unfinished and renovations would continue well into 2001.
C E L ( 40 , 80 ; 100 ) = ( 30 , 70 ) {\displaystyle CEL(40,80;100)=(30,70)} ; here r = 10 {\displaystyle r=10} .
On March 11, 2025, the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil suspended all operations of MAP and parent company Voepass due to management issues.
Suspended registration On November 26, 2012, the FDA suspended Sunland's registration to produce and distribute food product.
Brinquedos declare bankruptcy and cease operations began in 1994, when imported toys sold by street vendors began to strongly compete with the retail toy industry.
If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B owes Party A 105, the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A).
It was announced in November 1987 that the final three stores were to liquidate, closing before the end of the year.
Due to this, the French Directory and the Minister of Finance, Dominique-Vincent Ramel-Nogaret, on 30 September 1797, issued one-time only paper bonds that would be redeemable for national lands; similar to what the Assignat was originally before it became a paper currency.
The Army and Navy depended on the product to develop Quonset huts for soldier housing throughout the European and Pacific war theatres.
As imports did not have continuity, Mesbla found itself in difficulties to provide technical assistance for the goods sold.
In March 2020, the Company reported profits of $3.7 billion in 2019, an increase of 57% from the previous year.
History The company was established in 1980 as a single, family-owned store in Mississauga in the Greater Toronto Area, with 12 employees.
A month before the bankruptcy proceedings, Billboard published that Ruffles and his wife were giving up the night club business to live in Los Angeles.
This practically assured him of being only the sixth person to represent this heavily Democratic, Latino-majority district.
The corporate headquarters remained in York, Pennsylvania, but the merchandising headquarters was relocated to Milwaukee.
Generally speaking, a floating charge is only potentially vulnerable if it is entered into within the vulnerability period under applicable law.
Ling later split Wilson into three parts (meat packing, sporting goods (Wilson Sporting Goods), and pharmaceuticals (Wilson Pharmaceutical and Chemical), and spun them off into separate companies traded on the American Stock Exchange.
Building the chain The flagship Sam the Record Man store was famous for its Boxing Day sales and often served as the location for newspaper and television reports on Boxing Day shopping.
12 further stores were closed during bankruptcy, reducing the chain to 32 stores before exiting bankruptcy in late 1986.
History Public records show that shortly before the closure of Republic Windows the owners purchased Echo Windows and Doors, a non-unionized window factory in Red Oak, Iowa.
"The maintenance component that supplies work to the Air Canada fleet has effectively ceased operations," according to Lorne Hammerberg, the IAMAW's local president in Winnipeg.
In practice the most important grounds tend to be insolvency (the fourth ground) and just and equitable winding up (the sixth ground).
To make calls, users dialed the BroadPoint toll-free number, then entered their PIN, followed by the desired number.
It became a Dominion store until 2002, when it moved to a larger store at the "big box" development at Murphy Square.
In 2009, Beth Ditto of the indie rock band the Gossip launched the Beth Ditto at Evans collection, also exclusive to the retailer.
In 2007, Adam, Ashley, and Austin reunited as The Clark Brothers and won the Fox Networks talent show The Next Great American Band that year.
Some stores were not full franchises but used Roblan Distributors as their principal rack jobber and were known as RD 2000 stores.
Due to financial problems during 1990 and 1991, Airlift International ceased operations in June 1991.
The reason why he chose the name to begin with was because, as Weinstein said, "it reminded me of the countryside and the flowers and the springtime".
Following a slump in business caused by nearby construction, the company that managed the plaza where Prego Della Piazza was located chose not to extend the restaurant's lease in early 2010.
The range proved popular: Adele wore a dress at a gig in Canada and was reported to have bought the whole range.
The airline was founded in 1981 in Panama City, Florida and operated scheduled passenger service between 1981 and 1988.
Financial problems and closure Since 2002, Todeschini Alimentos was suffering from financial problems due competition and administrative problems.
A survey of US debt settlement companies found that 34.4% of enrollees had 75 percent or more of their debt settled within three years.
In a creditor's voluntary winding-up, he must report to the creditor's meeting on the exercise of his powers.
The eighth of eleven children, Hinojosa was reared in Hidalgo County, which borders on Mexico, and earned two business degrees, a Bachelor of Business Administration from the University of Texas at Austin and his MBA from the University of Texas–Pan American.
The company emerged from bankruptcy in less than 24 hours due to the agreement of all stakeholders, a strong strategic plan, and a stable team.
One of the major characteristics of the company was counting on huge stores often similar to a real market or specialized shopping mall only with toys.
A low-cost carrier, it was formed in 1994 under the name Commercial Air, later changed to Western Pacific, and began operating scheduled passenger flights on April 28, 1995, with eight Boeing 737-300s.
The Court also held that the legislative history of the termination and severance pay provisions and the other provisions in the ESA supported an interpretation that such benefits were payable to employees whose employment is terminated upon bankruptcy.
Sigfox 0G technology is a global Low-Power Wide-Area (LPWA) networking protocol founded in 2010 and adopted by 70+ Sigfox 0G Network Operators globally.
In 1999, PizzaExpress introduced its Schools Programme, a programme where the company turns its restaurants into classrooms, educating children about fresh ingredients, how to run a local business and how to cook for themselves.
The flagship, downtown Toronto location, at Brookfield Place (formerly BCE Place), went out of business in January 2010.
As of that time, it was operating nearly 80 stores, mostly in the Northeastern United States and on the West Coast, under the corporation PLVTZ LLC.
Aviation Safety Network and NTSB incorrectly identify this as an aircraft operated by Interior, but contemporaneous reporting is very clear.
New Look was owned by private equity groups Apax Partners and Permira, and founder Tom Singh, until May 2015 when it was acquired by Brait SE (SA) for £780 million.
On August 4, 2008, Steve and Barry's LLC, a retailer of casual apparel, filed a stalking horse agreement with the U.S.
Litigation arising from the conflict eventually reached the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
Best known for its lingerie, tights, and sleepwear collections, its other clothes had difficulty competing with the more trendy Lewis Separates, now owned by River Island Clothing Company Ltd, and Peter Robinson.
Senator Daniel Inouye, and a deal between Aloha and Saltchuk was struck and approved by the federal bankruptcy court, where Saltchuk would purchase the cargo division for $10.5 million.
In order for 722 redemption to apply the item in question must be personal property intended primarily for personal, family or household use.
In November 2000, the company had a market capitalization of $13 billion, despite only $234 million in revenue for the first six months of 2000.
By the fall of 1975, the factory that had made only 30 pairs of shoes a day was making more than 2,000.
The whole organization soon was mired in bankruptcy and spurred the decline of the regional department store.
On March 21, 2019, it was announced that the Sabres would play the Tampa Bay Lightning in the 2019 NHL Global Series at Ericsson Globe in Stockholm, Sweden.
In Idaho, its main competitors were Gem State Airlines, Cascade Airways, and to a lesser extent Hughes Airwest (later Republic Airlines).
In 2013, Christmas Tree Shops introduced a new brand and store format called Christmas Tree Shops andThat!, with the name change intended to avoid confusion in new markets unfamiliar with the store.
It has attracted the attention of the Australian Securities & Investments Commission, the Australian Taxation Office and the Fair Work Ombudsman, who have been pursuing those undertaking such practices to evade liability under their respective statutes.
The company certified and produced the inline piston twin-engined Adam A500, while the turbofan-powered Adam A700 AdamJet was under development.
They also act on directions, instructions and guidance from the service's Inspector General or, less often, from the Secretary of State for Business and Trade.
A fire in March 1933 destroyed many of the racing pictures, though some still remain in the family of the subsequent owner, William Soshnick.
Merger with World Color Press In 1999, Quebecor Printing merged with World Color Press in a US$2.7 billion deal to create Quebecor World.
On May 4, 2011, it was reported that nearly three months after abruptly closing down local drugstore chain and filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, El Amal was liquidating the inventory it had left, the company in charge of the transaction announced in an ad published Tuesday.
The company began charter operations on 15 June 1946 using Fairchild F-24 Argus and Douglas DC-3 aircraft.
in 2017, the Ontario Securities Commission permanently banned Drabinsky from becoming a director or officer of any public company in Ontario.
Thomas Hurkmans, president of DQE Enterprises, at the time, was the initial financier of this business.
This process, too, has a unique Nash equilibrium, in which the payoffs are equal to the ones prescribed by the constrained equal losses rule.
Today, Tinsley IV and Booth operate the company out of its current corporate headquarters in Houston.
Signed to Curb Records in 2000, The Clark Family Experience debuted on the American country music scene that year with the release of their single "Meanwhile Back at the Ranch".
Ayre's Supermarkets Ayre's also began to open supermarkets in the 1960s, under the name Ayre's Supermarkets.
Throughout 2007 the company started selling off aircraft from its training fleet to raise capital to increase recruiting, which further slowed down training.
In November 2009, Subway signed a deal to serve exclusively Seattle's Best Coffee coffee as part of its breakfast menu in the US.
On 9 July 1953 it may have been the first scheduled helicopter airline to carry passengers in the United States, with headquarters at LaGuardia Airport.
For example, a payment is due in three months' time but the borrower has been put into liquidation: and covenant default, when the borrower fails to keep a promise (a covenant) that it has made in the contract.
On May 30, it was announced that Pier 1 Imports had received court approval to liquidate all locations.
Uncooperative creditors of HFI during this period are prevented from disrupting our regular business.
By late 2000, the F100s became expensive to maintain and operate, so Midway began to replace them with Boeing 737-700s.
At this point, many properties had begun re-branding to other companies, most notably Motel 6, Travelodge, and Days Inn; conversely, HMS began acquiring buildings from other chains and re-branding them to Knights Inn, thus abandoning the chain's architecture standards.
After LTV departed its headquarters for Cleveland, the building was renamed the Trammell Crow Tower; it is now Trammell Crow Center.
2011–2013: Leaseholds acquisition and partnership On January 13, 2011, Target announced that it would purchase the lease agreements of up to 220 Zellers stores for C$1.825 billion (approximately $2.427 billion in 2025 adjusted for inflation).
The Humane Society pledge While there was talk of New York banning the sale of pets, Petland Discounts had gone towards becoming a puppy-friendlier pet store.
On June 14, it was reported that Fortress Investment Group, a Wall Street investment firm co-founded by the Milwaukee Bucks co-owner Wesley Edens, was interested in saving Red Lobster out of bankruptcy.
The company was founded in 2010 through the merges of two retail companies, being the Belo Horizonte-based Ricardo Eletro and Salvador-based Insinuante.
SMCD 5126 Canadian Trumpet Concerti, works by Hetu, Forsyth, Nimmons, Guy Few, James Thompson, Dan Warren trumpet, Armenian conductor.
The opening of Za was part of a five-year plan to refresh and improve the brand, called Future Express.
To fulfill the wishes of a daughter, he commissioned from a renowned architect from São Paulo a dollhouse, worth 300 000 dollars, which was installed on his farm in Indaiatuba.
In 2009, it was advertised the comeback of Mesbla: an e-commerce company negotiated the purchase of name usage rights with Mansur and intended to open a site aimed at women in March 2010, with official launch in May of the same year.
Western governments were convinced that they should openly support the anti-Bolshevik forces to restore a capitalist order.
Business areas Metroland's regional and specialized business units can be grouped into five categories: Newspapers, Printing, Distribution, Digital Media, and Consumer Marketing.
However, Texas officials—particularly those from Fort Worth—thought that increased traffic at Love Field could draw flights away from DFW Airport and threaten its financial stability.
In 2025, SSENSE filed for bankruptcy protection with $371 million CAD of debt, including over $93 million CAD owed to vendors.
Two months later, the almost-brand-new aircraft was still stranded in Shiraz and subject to seizure by the Iranian government.
In the ensuing off-season, Jason Heyward was released and Willson Contreras left in free agency, leaving Kyle Hendricks as the only remaining player from their 2016 championship team.
Right now, Diadora is the kit maker of Norwegian Eliteserien club Viking FK At the 2025 season, Diadora made a return to the Brazilian football, providing kits for Coritiba and Náutico.
It aired on YouTube on the 9th anniversary of BTS’s debut, June 13, in celebration of the release of their new anthology album Proof.
HEMA (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈɦeːmaː]; originally an acronym for Hollandsche Eenheidsprijzen Maatschappij Amsterdam, "Holland Unitary Pricing Company Amsterdam") is a Dutch variety chain store known by relatively low pricing of generic household goods.
Promotions In 2003, Red Lobster offered an endless snow crab leg promotion, the second in its history.
The interest in the property must be exempted under the bankruptcy code or has to be abandoned by the bankruptcy estate in order for 722 redemption to be used.
In English law the concept of universalism is usually used in contrast to the alternative theory of judicial cooperation in cross-border insolvencies referred to as the doctrine of unity.
An expanse of arid land on the eastern edge of the Mojave Desert 100 yards (91 m) from Interstate 15 was chosen for the project.
Café des Artistes was designed for the residents of the Hotel des Artistes, since the apartments lacked kitchens.
Dorothy Perkins is a British online women's fashion retailer operated by Debenhams Group in the United Kingdom.
In March 2007, The Wall Street Journal reported many lenders, including HSBC Mortgage Services and Countrywide, were demanding AFM repurchase loans pursuant to repurchase provisions contained in loan purchase agreements.
Shortly before the opening of the airport Continental Airlines shut down their Denver hub, leaving Denver as a hub for only one carrier, United Airlines, whereas Stapleton had once been a hub for airlines like the original Frontier Airlines (1950-1986) and Western Airlines.
The company announced that it intended to return the A500 to production after re-engineering it to lose 1,000 lb (454 kg) of empty weight and recertifying it.
It was listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange on 7 October 2010 with the IPO price of HK$3.48 per share.
Soy protein in chicken products In 2017, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) investigated chicken sold by five fast-food restaurants.
Bachelder is served as interim CEO until the former Pier 1 CFO, Robert Riesbeck took over in November 2019.
The balance available, if any, after the non-preferential creditors are repaid is distributed amongst the company's shareholders.
§ 1692g(a) requires specific information regarding the consumer's right to dispute all or part of the debt to be provided in writing to the consumer within 5 days of the initial communication.
In 1979, Bob Goodfriend became president of the business and the company changed its merchandise focus from the outlet model to offering current, first-quality, brand-name merchandise.
Non legal staff familiar with bankruptcy and the assignment process can also affect the speed validity of the process.
Northern Telecom was the first company in its industry to announce and deliver a complete line of fully digital telecommunications products.
AEI had large national customers into international markets, while DMX had dealt with smaller businesses.
By 1981, Crazy Eddie operated ten locations, including a Manhattan store on East 57th Street on the Upper East Side.
The Force Drive drive train is integrated into the Ford Transit Connect Electric, Ford E-Series Balance Hybrid, as well has a number of other passenger and medium and heavy duty trucks.
Harrison made its products more functional for users with disabilities, designing larger fonts so that people with vision problems could see them.
These dates must fall due on the same day and be in the same currency, but can be agreed in advance.
The receivership remedy is an equitable remedy that emerged in the English chancery courts, where receivers were appointed to protect real property.
Both the AFM and Burch bankruptcy cases were subsequently converted to "asset" cases by the Bankruptcy Trustee after assets for distribution to unsecured creditors were discovered.
The remaining open stores in Northwest Indiana were sold in bankruptcy auction to the Strack and Van Til families and the Indiana Grocery Group.
1980s Before the Internet, companies like DAK relied on catalogs and print ads to generate sales and incurred high costs for printing and mailing.
Zeckendorf secured the loan by giving the Teamsters Union his lease of the park's 149-acre (60 ha) site, among other sites; this resolved the park's short-term debt.
This process is known as creditors voluntary liquidation (CVL), as opposed to members voluntary liquidation (MVL) which is for solvent companies.
The airline's first president, Mike Malik, rebranded the airline, launched a host of new products and services, and established "Aloha Tech Ops", the MRO division.
Target would sell the remaining 64 to 74 acquired locations to other retailers, including 39 already resold to Walmart Canada.
An unsecured creditor is a creditor other than a preferential creditor that does not have the benefit of any security interests in the assets of the debtor.
reincorporated as the real estate company that currently does business, using the real estate that its stores had previously occupied.
filed for liquidation in February 2021, citing low customer numbers because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
After the Zellers stores at the selected locations closed, Target planned to renovate between 125 and 135 of them, and reopen them under the Target banner.
Lift 6 (Cornice Express) is a high speed detachable lift serving advanced terrain, as well as allowing skiers to traverse to the Timber Creek area through Sentinel Bowl.
First, it only operated seasonally, thus reducing potential income; this contrasted with Disneyland, which operated year-round.
In the 1990s, Diadora was also the official kit supplier of several Italian football clubs, including AS Roma for three seasons, between 1997 and 2000.
Prior to the purchase, Mega and Mattel were partners in adding Mattel brands to Mega "Worlds" plus a line for Mattel's American Girl that competes with Lego's Friends line.
On the 5 September 2024, ASOS announced that it sold a 75% stake of Topshop & Topman to the Danish company Bestseller.
Manhattan real estate developer Joel Schreiber purchased a 33% interest in the company for $15 million.
1940—1970: Wartime contributions and wide-scale use During World War II, Masonite’s hardboard became an important substitute for metals.
In the event of the bankruptcy of the debtor, the secured creditor can enforce security against the assets of the debtor and avoid competing for a distribution on liquidation with the unsecured creditors.
See also Landmarks of the Nebraska Territory References External links Official website The Archway Monument on VisitNebraska.org Archived July 19, 2011, at the Wayback Machine Federal bankruptcy court documents via archive.org Review Essay in the Spring 2001 Great Plains Quarterly
In 1992, the chain was advertising its two remaining locations in Manhattan—at 51st Street and Broadway (originally the famous Lindy's location), and at 45th Street and Eighth Avenue.
On November 28, 2008, Enerjet received an air operator's certificate (AOC) and Air Operator License issued by the Canadian Transportation Agency.
International expansion In 1981, the restaurant opened its first international franchise in Australia under the name Charlie Cheese's Pizza Playhouse.
The chain filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy again in 1987, planning to close 26 of 29 stores and operate 3 stores, two in Lima, Ohio and one in Wauseon, Ohio.
By 2024, Hampton Farms in Portales employed 170 people, and was the community's fifth-largest employer.
However, some countries have "ring-fenced" payments made for fraudulent trading so that they are made available to the pool of assets for unsecured creditors.
Leon has also introduced a retail grocery range, including sauces and frozen meals, which were sold through UK supermarkets such as Sainsbury’s and Ocado.
According to the New York Times, it caters to those in New York society who derive "fame from power rather than the other way around".
In other jurisdictions various forms of ad hoc cross-border cooperation exist on the basis of a foreign main proceeding.
Gertner initially proposed a repayment plan that returned a very small amount of money to his creditors with a total of 500,000 GBP was to be split between all creditors.
Common items for exemption include clothing, furniture, appliances, motor vehicles, medical and dental aids, a home, family heirlooms, and some insurance.
When the company closed, the team removed their logos on their cars, although the logo remained on the firesuits.
However, access to such procedures may still be restricted due to barriers such as the requirement to pay for legal procedures, limited size of the debt, or if one already went through a procedure before.
Any person wanting to make an application for a protected trust deed must have been a resident of Scotland for at least six months prior to making the application.
Policy For many years, it was city policy in Ottawa that buildings in the downtown core not be taller than the Peace Tower of the Parliament Hill buildings.
The patent for the Railplow was transferred to a subsidiary of the two companies and 360networks received a royalty-free, exclusive license for the use of the Railplow, giving it a significant advantage over some of its competitors that also utilized rail corridors.
Loan Xpress will forgive 75 percent of the amount borrowed by the majority of Silver State Helicopter's 2,700 students with the percentage of loan forgiveness per individual will vary by the amount of training that students successfully completed.
Novel and film In 1996 the Swedish novelist Jacques Werup adapted her life in his novel Den ofullbordade himlen ("The Imperfect Sky").
He sortied in command of 1st Division of the 'Young Guard' under fire, was wounded by grapeshot in the right leg and his horse was killed under him by five 'biscaïen' (large musket shots), but he remained on the battlefield until midnight despite the pain of his wounds.
They initially reported that his parachute had been sabotaged, with the risers (fabric connectors between the harness and lines) for his reserve parachute having been deliberately cut with a hook knife.
After previously running for Nike, on November 25, 2014, it was announced that he had signed with Hoka One One.
The conviction of OLL Ltd was the first example of a successful corporate manslaughter prosecution in the United Kingdom.
The Dughlat historian Mirza Muhammad Haidar characterized Saniz Mirza as a "violent, but generous man".
Kayode won the silver medal in 4 × 100 m relay at the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, together with teammates Chidi Imoh, Olapade Adeniken and Davidson Ezinwa.
He followed that up with a pair of strong finishes at the World Cross Country Championships the next year.
Matylda Vilma Pálfyová (11 March 1912 – 23 September 1944) was a Slovak gymnast who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics, helping her team to a silver medal.
Hugh Weir reported to the Australian Olympic Federation that Because Ross Milne was only seventeen years of age, the question was raised at the [Innsbruck] IOC meeting as to whether inexperienced people were being sent to compete in ...
29 March 1912), married on 4 July 1863 Sir William Earle Welby-Gregory, 4th Baronet He died in 1844 of the effects of a hunting accident suffered earlier in life.
At that time he was elected Sports Secretary of Haji Muhammad Muhsin Hall student council on behalf of Bangladesh Chhatra League.
Harry died in 1943 after drowning in the Murray River attempting to retrieve a duck he had just shot.
Kayode was an All-American sprinter for the BYU Cougars track and field team, placing runner-up in the 200 metres at the 1993 NCAA Division I Outdoor Track and Field Championships.
Deaths of active drivers This is a list of notable deaths in NASCAR and untimely deaths of professional NASCAR drivers.
The aquatic area used was not constructed for competitive swimming, and the water was reportedly contaminated, which led to health risks for a few athletes, including Bratton and his teammate George Van Cleaf.
1851–1897) was an American inventor, credited with introducing electric motors for the purpose of marine propulsion.
Bombing Centennial Olympic Park was designed as the "town square" of the Olympics, and thousands of spectators had gathered for a late concert by the band Jack Mack and the Heart Attack.
In 667, Saborios was the governing general (strategos) of the theme of the Armeniacs, covering the northeastern part of Byzantine Anatolia.
As a junior, Fagernes competed on top national level in cycling, athletics, and cross country skiing, before deciding to focus on javelin.
Wellman, Busby Berkeley and William Dieterle, his film career ended with his death on October 30, 1935, one week before his 32nd birthday, from a skull fracture sustained in a polo accident that had occurred three days earlier.
Lou Gehrig - New York Yankees's first baseman who was forced into retirement after being diagnosed with ALS, he would ultimately die from the disease, two years later in 1941.
About 30 boats searched for the jumpers along the axis from Huron to Vermilion, but efforts were hampered by the cold and strong winds.
Following Cocking's death parachuting became unpopular, and was confined to carnival and circus acts until the late 19th century, when developments such as the harness and breakaway chutes made it safer.
A stocky right-handed wicketkeeper-batsman, Sen first toured with the Indian team in 1947–48 in Australia where he was to act as the reserve keeper to Jenni Irani.
The Foothills Cuisine of Blackberry Farm: Recipes and Wisdom from Our Artisans, Chefs, and Smoky Mountain Ancestors with Marah Stets, Clarkson Potter, New York (2012).
Around 4,500 players brought multiple lawsuits against the NFL alleging that it had covered up a growing body of medical evidence about the preponderance of head-trauma related CTE in ex-NFL players, and some testimonials have come in that context.
Creighton, who had thus far played primarily in the infield, was brought on as a substitute pitcher.
Princess Alicia of Bourbon-Parma (13 November 1917 – 28 March 2017); she married Infante Alfonso, Duke of Calabria, on 16 April 1936.
Achievements Personal bests 3000 metres – 8:06.56 (2002) 5000 metres – 12:54.15 (2004) 10,000 metres – 27:12.22 (2005) Marathon – 2:08:46 (2006) References Dejene Berhanu at World Athletics Evans, Hilary; Gjerde, Arild; Heijmans, Jeroen; Mallon, Bill; et al.
The limited-rules event was billed as a "Ukraine Against the World" contest and drew about 4,000 spectators.
Edith Maud Cook (1 September 1878 – 14 July 1910), was an early British parachutist, balloonist, and aviator, recognized as Britain's first female pilot.
Achievements External links Interview with Franziska Rochat-Moser about her life growing up References Evans, Hilary; Gjerde, Arild; Heijmans, Jeroen; Mallon, Bill; et al.
However, as Chesham was serving in South Africa, Lord Churchill was appointed to act as Master of the Buckhounds in his absence.
In 1926 he settled in the city of Taganrog on Shevchenko street 111, where he founded The Taganrog Animal Theater of Anatoly Durov.
Bochatay was the third athlete to die at a Winter Olympics, after British luger Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski and Australian skier Ross Milne, who both died at Innsbruck 1964.
Lemp was elected mayor in April 1927 but was seriously injured in a polo accident shortly thereafter.
dead, Cricinfo, 4 December 2004 Fulham FC article on Andy Ducat Scorecard for his final match – 29 not out
His injuries were three broken vertebrae, two broken femurs, a broken collarbone, a punctured lung, and a smashed pelvis.
John Patrick McSherry (September 11, 1944 – April 1, 1996) was an American umpire in Major League Baseball who worked in the National League from 1971 until his death.
In 2002, he was elected to the Verkhovna Rada after winning a single-member districts seat as a member of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine in Manevychi.
The oldest of twelve children, Harry was recruited to Carlton by Jack Worrall and made his debut in Round 11, 1906, against Collingwood at Princes Park.
In 1835, Peralta participated in the Costa Rican civil war, the Guerra de la Liga (English: "War of the League") against Head of State Braulio Carrillo Colina.
That would remain his last victory on the track, because George Saling was killed in a car accident in Missouri six months after the Olympic Games, aged only 23.
He had a personal best of 13:45.37 minutes in the 5000 metres, achieved in March 2002 in Bellville, and 28:24.61 minutes in the 10,000 metres, achieved in March 2002 in Port Elizabeth.
FIS Ski Jumping World Cup, FIS Ski Jumping Continental Cup, FIS Nordic World Ski Championships, and the Olympic Games), though many ski jumpers have died during practice or in national events (nb:Skader og dødsulykker i skihopping).
Douglas Dedge (June 18, 1966 – March 18, 1998) was an American mixed martial artist who was the first known American competitor to be fatally injured in an MMA fight and the first death in the modern era of professional MMA.
The race developed into a thriller, with fellow Canadian runner Édouard Fabre matching Duffy's pace throughout.
Upshaw attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools where he averaged 24 points, 12 rebounds and seven assists as a junior in 2008, when he was named the most valuable player (MVP) of the Independent School League.
He successfully rode his last bull for the full eight seconds, and rode him an additional eight seconds in memory of Frost.
McConkey was known for combining BASE jumping with skiing, as seen in such feats as skiing into a BASE jump off the Eiger.
Robert Cocking (1776 – 24 July 1837) was a British watercolour artist who died in the first known fatal parachute accident.
A third tradition holds that two pioneers from Kentucky who were being held captive by Indians near Detroit, Michigan saw a man enter the Indian camp.
Bertil Gustafsson Uggla (19 August 1890 – 29 September 1945) was a Swedish officer, track and field athlete, modern pentathlete, and fencer.
In 1880, he was part of the Oxford University team that reached the FA Cup Final, where they met the previous year's losing finalists, Clapham Rovers.
Foley had nine DGA Award nominations and 21 Emmy nominations—a record for a single person working on a variety series.
According to some British reports, Fandiño had tripped on his cape, and perhaps even fallen, leaving him vulnerable to the goring.
Then Pálfyová worked in Košice as a correspondent from the age of 18, between 1934 and 1937 at Východoslovenské elektrárne, úč.
He died at Chertsey, Surrey, on 3 August 1878, after suffering a brain injury during a cricket match.
He produced and directed all 72 episodes of Live on Letterman including concerts with The Black Keys, The Killers, Adele, Phoenix, Taylor Swift, and Tim McGraw.
New York State boxing authorities were criticized for giving Paret clearance to fight just several months after the Fullmer fight.
Post World War I On 22 April 1919, Gerrard relinquished his posting as acting major and reverted to the rank of captain.
Borcke commanded the Prussian 9th Infantry Brigade of the Third Corps during the Hundred Days Campaign against Napoleon and fought in the battle of Ligny and was then the commander of the Fortress of Luxembourg in 1815.
One of his sons, Michael, has written a memoir, The Blue Cabin (2006), about his move to the family's former holiday house on the island of Islandmore on Strangford Lough.
Richard Alfred Weiss (September 18, 1963 – June 25, 1997), known as Rich Weiss, was a West German-born, American slalom kayaker who competed from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s.
Following the 2007 election, Hickey remained in cabinet as Minister of Labrador Affairs, but lost the transportation portfolio.
In return, Arghun offered to return Jerusalem to the Christians, once it was re-captured from the Muslims.
In 2007 Hickstead and Eric Lamaze won the coveted $1Million CN International at the Spruce Meadows "Masters" Archived 2011-11-21 at the Wayback Machine Tournament in Calgary, Alberta (Canada).
Brian Faulkner was educated initially at Elm Park preparatory school, Killylea, County Armagh, but at 14 was sent to the Church of Ireland-affiliated St Columba's College at Rathfarnham in Dublin, although Faulkner was Presbyterian.
1975) Westenholz, who lived at Little Blakesware, Hertfordshire, died at age 60 in a skiing accident on 9 March 2006.
His son, Abd al-Rahman ibn Mu'awiya, was the founder of the Emirate of Córdoba and the Umayyad line of al-Andalus.
Zrinski, Hungarian: Zrínyi Miklós; 5 January 1620 – 18 November 1664) was a Croatian and Hungarian military leader, statesman and poet.
In Detroit, Walker was reunited with former high school teammate Bobby Layne who the Lions acquired by trade in April 1950.
The NFL has implemented rule changes to reduce collisions to the head and has sought to improve football helmet design.
That year, there were five rider fatalities as a result of falls in the United Kingdom alone, four of which resulted from rotational falls.
In December 1836, President Sam Houston appointed Scurry as district attorney of the First Judicial District.
Notes External links Max Smith's playing statistics from AFL Tables Max Smith at AustralianFootball.com
Rankings During his career, Howard was ranked among the top jumpers in the US by Track and Field News.
Written works Klinische Beobachtungen aus der Augenheilanstalt in Wiesbaden (with Edwin Theodor Saemisch and Arnold Pagenstecher).
Lawrence Hospital, a short distance from the Polo Grounds, where he was diagnosed with a depressed skull fracture.
At the end of the women's marathon of the Paralympics, on 8 September, the organising committee held a minute of applause in her honour.
Disappearance On the morning of 6 December 1971, Major Mostaq, the director of Al-Badr forces, released Miraj from Dhaka Central Jail and took him in a jeep.
He is known to have performed exhibition jumps in Germany (Berlin and Bremen) and Russia (Moscow, Saint Petersburg).
I didn't hurt it," he said, though rope grooves in the soft sandstone were later found, possibly created or enhanced by the professional photographers Potter brought along to publicize the climb.
The same year, he was inducted in 51st Paratrooper Division, Airborne Corps, and from there, he was selected for the Special Service Group (SSG).
Estonia Erich Altosaar – though better known as a basketball player, he played for Kalev when they won the 1930 Estonian Football Championship.
Their consensus view is that the only thing that can definitely be said about the origin of cricket is that its earliest record is in a late 16th-century court case in Surrey which proves it was played by children in southeast England in the middle of that century.
But the king would hear nothing less than conquering the capital Ava (Inwa), and the court ultimately agreed to a full scale invasion.
By a royal decree of 19 March 2004, Prince Friso was granted the surname 'Van Oranje-Nassau van Amsberg', the hereditary noble predicate 'Jonkheer (Jonkvrouw) van Amsberg and the hereditary title 'Count of Orange-Nassau', to take effect upon his marriage.
Career Mützelburg joined the Reichsmarine of the Weimar Republic on 1 April 1932 as member of "Crew 32" (the incoming class of 1932).
The organisers eventually decided to temporarily suspend the remaining racing events following the fatal crash.
He accomplished the world record feat in front of dozens of spectators on January 25, 2006, plunging headfirst into the snow upon landing and having to be extricated by friends.
In his obituary, Saad Shafqat profiled Wasim Raja as a cult batting figure defined by a "relaxed attack" style, carefree demeanour, open-collared 1970s flair, and memorable off-side strokeplay, who valued entertainment as much as accumulation.
Dumas noted the warm temperature: "If the boys stick their nose in a 'topette' [bag of drugs] today, we could have a death on our hands".
Sometimes, the deaths came during competition or practice, while other times deaths occurred due to road accidents or other non-sports-related reasons.
He soon died of his wounds; upon his death Dost Muhammad came down to Yarkand and demanded Saniz Mirza's widow named Jamal Agha, whom he married upon her surrender.
Cocking spent many years developing his improved parachute, based on Cayley's design, which consisted of an inverted cone 107 feet (32.61 m) in circumference connected by three hoops.
Kipyegon Bett (1 February 1998 – 6 October 2024) was a Kenyan middle-distance runner specialising in the 800 metres.
Peranius (Georgian: პერანი, romanized: p'erani) was a Georgian prince from Iberia and a military commander in Roman (Byzantine) service.
After retiring from football, Griffiths kept active as a district cricketer and spent some time with the St Kilda Cricket Club.
On December 13, 1906, Stuart had a letter published in the Montreal Star that detailed his problems with the IPHL.
Klouček joined Orli Znojmo in the Erste Bank Eishockey Liga after previously playing in the Slovak Extraliga with HC Kosice.
Prior to the Olympics, he had won three national marathon championships in Portugal, where he represented S.L.
John (DStJ) in July 1901, and in December the same year received the decoration of the Royal Red Cross (RRC) for her services with the Imperial Yeomanry Hospital during the Boer War.
He was called into the senior team as part of the 30-man squad for the 2017 African Cup of Nations but was dropped from the 23-man squad.
He is remembered for introducing a surgical practice known as intracapsular cataract extraction, and in 1862 he introduced yellow Präcipitatsalbe (precipitate salve) as an eye ointment.
In popular culture Harry Turtledove, a historian noted for his speculative fiction based on alternative history, has written several series set in a place called Videssos, which is a thinly disguised Byzantine Empire.
His father, a farmer who had served as a private in the Australian Imperial Force during the First World War, died before Colin's birth.
To secure their releases Valdemar II had to acknowledge the break away territories in Germany, pay 44,000 silver marks, sign a promise not to seek revenge on Count Henry and send his son Erik to prison instead.
The hotel survived into the early twentieth century though was sold by the Jones family upon the premature death of the younger Cobb in the 1890s.
It was not considered controversial to compliment a pitcher with the caveat that he "warn't no Creighton." For years following his death, the Excelsiors' program included a portrait of their club with Creighton, shrouded in black, featured prominently in the center.
In April 1910 he set the official World Airspeed Record of 48.186 miles per hour (77.548 km/h) in his Antoinette VII.
Career statistics Regular season and playoffs References External links Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database
After deciding to enter the 2016 NBA Development League Draft, Upshaw was selected in the fourth round by the Grand Rapids Drive.
Early death Three months following the 1904 Olympics, Bratton died on December 3, 1904 of typhoid fever and peritonitis at Chicago's Auditorium Hotel.
He acquired a love of the country, particular horses and fox hunting, from his first wife, and became a keen follower of the Pytchley Hunt, in Northamptonshire.
Burke was a known promoter of the superpipe skiing event, working to have it added to the Olympic program.
Gray was born in Charlotteville, Ontario, Canada, and attended North Tonawanda High School in North Tonawanda, New York, from which he graduated in 1906.
On 13 July 2023, Dwamena scored his first two goals in European competitions, scoring a brace for Egnatia in a 4–4 draw with FC Ararat-Armenia in a UEFA Conference League match.
A month later, on 15 June 1918, after two years of combat, Nardini rounded out his list with a solo victory over another Albatros D.III.
On 26 June 2012, Batman was killed in a car crash at Marrakai, southeast of Darwin, Northern Territory.
The troops of the Bishop made every effort to overrun Heerenveen, but they were stopped every time and could do nothing but plunder the defenceless countrymen, until on 1 September they were forced to retreat, without having accomplished anything of importance.
Before the race, he had supposedly said: "Either I win or I die." The following weekend, a memorial service for Lázaro was attended by 23,000 people at the Olympic Stadium.
Swimmers and water polo players, and several fellow 1904 Olympic water polo medalists including Joe Ruddy, L.
Death Torrence was found dead in a swimming pool in Scottsdale, Arizona, on August 28, 2017, at the age of 31.
Vakhtang, serving to the shah as a prefect of Qazvin and having the example of his brother before him, was reluctant.
On 2 November, he was caught by the Pakistan army while planting dynamite on the Baniajuri bridge on the Dhaka-Aricha highway.
On his eight patrols in the Atlantic, the US east coast, and the Caribbean Sea, he sank 19 ships for a total of 81,961 gross register tons (GRT), and damaged three more (17,052 GRT).
Taking advantage of the absence of many soldiers of the other themes with Constans in Sicily, Saborios launched a revolt in late 667.
Sigismund of Luxembourg came to Buda and persuaded the queen mother to give her consent to his marriage to Mary.
Another hostile scout was then attacked by pilot, end-on, and received a long burst at very close range, the enemy going down in a spin, but apparently righting himself lower down.
Al-Afdal was exiled to Salkhad, while Al-Aziz was proclaimed supreme overlord of the Ayyubid Empire.
Donoso was previously married to and had two children (singer Amber Donoso and model Olivia Donoso) with UK model Lisa Butcher.
International reactions King Hussein of Jordan, the only leader of an Arab country to denounce the attack publicly, called it a "savage crime against civilization ...
In one such show in Grenaa on 30 August 1931, the parachute failed to open and she fell to her death.
Count Henry demanded that Denmark surrender the land conquered in Holstein 20 years ago and become a vassal of the Holy Roman Emperor for father and son to be released.
Vakhushti makes David the father of George, king of Kakheti, whom he differentiates from George VIII, Demetrius's younger brother, at first king of Georgia and then king of Kakheti.
While McSherry did not eject anyone directly (home plate umpire Steve Rippley did), he ordered the benches cleared and all reserve players back to their dressing rooms in the ninth inning.
The couple bought the property, located in the foothills of the Great Smoky Mountains, in December 1976 and ran it as a small country inn.
While at Georgia, he was part of the team that won the 1942 Orange Bowl, which was Georgia's first bowl appearance and first win.
Club career Born in Brazzaville, Congo, Malonga played professionally for MSP Batna in the Algerian Championnat National, before joining AS Contres of the French Division Honneur in 2010.
In 1898, Johnston enlisted in the United States Army to fight in the Spanish–American War, serving in Cuba with the 1st U.S.
Historian Shaun Fitzroy Tougher cites a history written by George the Monk that uses the Greek word pothos to describe Basil's relationship with Michael, a word which had historically been used in some Greek Christian sources to describe the desire between a wife and a husband.
The piece describes Raja’s instinct to dominate from the outset and his dazzling left-handed strokeplay, high backlift powering fierce square-cuts, cover drives, pulls and hooks, contrasting his power with a lean, wiry build.
Early career During his stay in Milan he met with many artists and being a regular visitor to their workshops he discovered his love for painting.
In July he took the silver medal at the 2009 South American Junior Championships in Athletics and then won the gold medal in the 2009 Pan American Junior Athletics Championships, throwing a new age-15 world best of 69.84m with the men's 800 gram implement.
Van Doren dropped from a height of more than 2 miles (3.2 km) landing in a garden in the town of Opglabbeek.
Already 200 enemies had been shot down, and that place would undoubtedly have been conquered, if the Bishop had not obtained a hasty release of 2000 men from Kampen and Zwolle.
Death Abderrahim Goumri died on 19 January 2013 in a car crash in Temara, Morocco, while en route to Rabat.
His personal best throw in the shot put was 20.72 metres, a French national record, achieved in May 2008 in Versailles.
They were doing what Ed liked best, skiing powder snow at Monarch Ski Area near Salida, Colorado, when he suffered a heart attack at the high altitude.
He made an attempt at the record that fall at the Silicon Valley Turkey Trot, but he finished with a time of 13:33, 9 seconds shy of the 13:24 record.
See also List of fatalities while playing cricket References External links Andy Ducat at ESPNcricinfo Not out ...
At city marathons, Syster finished fifth in the 2002 London Marathon, and won the Beijing Marathon the following year.
On 26 June 2003, Cameroon faced Colombia in the semi-final, held at the Stade de Gerland in Lyon, France.
The plane then went into a spin and crashed into the water about 150 feet (46 m) beyond the end of the runway.
He finished fifth in the 2004 Olympic Trials, falling short in his attempt to make the Olympic team for the third time.
Cocking was in a basket which hung below the parachute which in turn hung below the basket of the balloon.
The Chandela ruler Paramardi initiated negotiations with Aibak but died before a treaty could be finalized.
Representing the Central YMCA, Duffy came in second in the 1911 Ward Marathon, a 20-mile (32 km) event in Toronto.
A legal deposition from Harrod's sister claims that Harrod came to live with her following his disappearance in Kentucky.
While preparing to receive the next ball, Abdul Aziz fell to the ground and never regained consciousness, dying en route to the hospital.
Niaré competed at the 2001 World Championships, the 2006 European Championships, the 2007 World Championships, the 2008 Olympic Games and the 2009 World Championships without reaching the final.
See also List of historical horses References External links Eric Lamaze Archived 2008-08-22 at the Wayback Machine at Olympic.ca Hickstead at Torrey Pines Stable Trinity Chinner EMG
Soon Nur al-Din demanded the city be handed over to him, and Ayyub and Shirkuh negotiated its surrender in 1154.
World War I During World War I Weiler served in France as a member of the 131st Field Artillery Regiment, a unit of the 36th Infantry Division.
Career Zhang won the 2024 Dutch Junior International beating fellow Chinese player Hu Zhean 21–10, 11–21, 13–21.
Coaching career Besides playing goalkeeper he also coached the Feminine football club Entente Gévaudan.
International career Malonga made a full international debut for Congo on 14 November 2009 in a friendly against Angola, for his only international appearance.
Marriage and family On 25 May 1903 at Vienna, Elias married Archduchess Maria Anna of Austria (1882–1940), daughter of Archduke Friedrich, Duke of Teschen, and a niece of Queen Maria Cristina of Spain.
They also noted Karns's failure to disclose his equipment's inability to navigate and communicate at the same time.
They fortified the interior garrison of Mpwapwa and reopened the main caravan route through the area, using Lts.
Gülbahar Hatun, daughter of Kötürüm Bayezid Sons Süleyman Pasha had at least three sons: Ishak Bey, Rumelia's bey.
He became a member of the Lexington Police Department's narcotics squad in the early 1970s and worked on narcotics investigations with the Louisville office of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
She was also known as Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, Viola Kavanagh, and perhaps as Viola Fleet and Elsa Spencer.
Tom Compernolle (13 November 1975 – 16 June 2008) was a Belgian runner, who specialized in the 5000 metres.
Delicate Arch climb Controversy surrounded Potter after his 2006 climb of Delicate Arch in Arches National Park, for which he lost his sponsorship from the Patagonia clothing company.
Dedge was reported to have passed out during a training session leading up to the bout and it is now widely believed (though never officially confirmed) that Dedge had a preexisting medical condition.
The event featured a grand total of 24 racing events, including 12 motorcycle and motorcar events each.
Destin Chancel Onka Malonga (16 March 1988 – 31 July 2016) was a Congolese professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper.
On 16 May 2021, Kasheer, a horse ridden by Pakistani Olympic hopeful Usman Khan, died at an Olympic eventing qualifier in South Australia.
Once in Aden, Burton was not granted a medical certificate to travel and thus Speke left on HMS Furious and arrived in England on 8 May 1859.
From 1967 to 1982, LaChapelle was professor of atmospheric sciences and geophysics at the University of Washington, and then professor emeritus following his retirement until his death.
Prince Friso was a co-founder of the MRI Centre in Amsterdam and was also a founding shareholder of Wizzair, the largest low-cost airline in Eastern Europe.
She died on the 14th, and an inquest was held on the 16th; her death certificate states the cause of her death as "Internal injuries, broken pelvis and arm, caused by a fall from a parachute.
He became the first European prince to patronize the Templars, giving them an annual income of 30 pounds in the money of Anjou.
Elias was to have half of the estate in order to support his rank as head of the family; this half included the château de Chambord.
The three surviving Black September gunmen had been arrested and were being held in a Munich prison for trial.
From 1964 to 1968 he studied at the Brera Academy in Milan with the well known professors Francesco Messina, Marino Marini and Alik Cavaliere.
Parachute design Robert Cocking was a professional watercolour artist with a keen amateur interest in science.
In 2000, Westenholz, a former director of Grindlay Brandts, was a member of the Jupiter International board of directors.
Largely due to an effective guerrilla campaign by troops from Friesland under Hans Willem van Aylva against their supply lines.
Cobb suffered great financial loss during the war including the destruction and theft of property as well as the death of at least one child.
At trial, the jury failed to reach a verdict on Joe Stoddart and the prosecution decided against a retrial.
Maxwell Henry Smith (21 December 1915 – 27 October 1941) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Essendon in the Victorian Football League (VFL).
In January 1998, at age 71, Walker was paralyzed from the neck down in a skiing accident at Steamboat Springs.
In late June, Dr Elena Duta was charged with manslaughter on reports that she did not attempt to resuscitate Ekeng in the ambulance.
Neville Sellwood, Australian Racing Hall of Fame jockey killed in 1962 at Maisons-Laffitte Racecourse, France.
Early life Slack's family migrated from the Windward Islands to High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire, England, when he was 11 years old.
Friedrich Alexander Hermann Pagenstecher (21 April 1828 – 31 December 1879) was a German ophthalmologist born in Wallau.
they bought and installed the bolts) but who was unsuccessful in redpointing it, and it is now considered to be "open" to any climber to try; sometimes the original bolter will leave colored tape on the first bolt(s) to note the route is "not open".
It was the first shoe to introduce the "P" logo which has since been used on all of the company's shoes.
fixed rope, base camps, etc.) in helping the lead climbers reach the eventual summit; opposite of alpine style.
Some big wall climbers such as those climbing Yosemite's Half Dome or El Capitan have "invented" novel ways to extend its use and compromise its safety.
In popular culture In the 2015 film Kingsman: The Secret Service, one of the villains, Gazelle, is seen wearing a pair of bladed Flex-Foot Cheetah.
For example, large rocks above the soil surface do not normally appear on topographic maps but can be important features on many orienteering maps.
A 2019 Yale study showed that there were 306 chemicals in crumb rubber and that 52 of these chemicals were classified as carcinogens by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Due to the large forces exerted on the rock when an SLCD is fallen on, it is very important that SLCDs are only placed in solid, strong rock.
After Sibley's death, his relatives attempted unsuccessfully to collect the royalties from the War Department.
An alpine route where protection is from permanent steel fixed ropes or chains, with progression aided by artificial steel steps or ladders; commonly found in the Dolomites.
When belaying a seconder from the top of a climb, the Reverso is attached by a carabiner through the "extra loop" that an ATC does not have, to the anchors in the place of an italian hitch knot.
Tousse Running Apparel is an American supplier of custom uniforms for track and field, which produces track suits, speedsuits, shorts and shirts for teams.
In rock climbing, a nut (or chock or chockstone or wire for the smallest versions) is a metal wedge threaded on a wire that climbers use for protection by wedging it into a crack in the rock.
The first team to score the requisite number of points as determined by the competitive format, wins the game.
A new location for its headquarters was not immediately selected, and the possibility of the company's sale was being considered.
To carry the swag is to be the bearer of the stolen goods to a place of safety." James Hardy Vaux, a convict in Australia, used the term for similar purposes in his memoirs written in 1812 and published in 1819.
On the same surface, a dance shoe with a leather or suede sole will give much less traction than a gym shoe with a composite rubber sole.
Soloflex refers to both the Soloflex exercise machine and to Soloflex, Inc., the company that created and produces it.
The Automatic Scorer digital computer was mathematically accurate, however the detection system at the pinsetter mechanism sometimes reported the wrong number of pins knocked down.
These casual bowlers unfamiliar with the formula thought the scores given by the computers were confusing.
Ortuseight is an Indonesian sport manufacturing company based in the Tangerang, Indonesia and it was established in 2018 which produces sports shoes and jerseys.
Keep is installed by default on devices in Apple Stores in China and was on Apple's "2015 Best of App Store list".
A line marker is a device or machine with which lines or markings are drawn on a sports field or pitch.
They are often preferred by alpine mountaineers over spring-loaded camming devices because of their lack of moving parts and overall lower weight for the same size crack.
The use of whitewashed or chalked lines was developed by William Wing, a Cincinnati Red Stockings groundskeeper.
Some communes have decided to fund this maintenance by charging an admission fee, but this applies to very few vias and most remain free of charge.
Issues of plumbing connections, fuel toxicity, leakage, spillage, and stove flareup are also nonexistent when using a solid-fuel portable stove.
The kit also had a wire handle which many soldiers used to hang the mess kit from their web equipment or backpack.
While it seemed to be as much effort to "kick" as a regular scooter, the novelty of it caught on and it became popular nevertheless.
Trymax is a Bulgarian manufacturer of sports accessories, with its primary hub for business operations in Sofia, Bulgaria.
In rock climbing, a copperhead is a small nut with a head made of soft metal on a loop of wire, originally copper or brass, later aluminium.
Leavittation A technique used to climb off-width cracks pioneered in the late 1970s by Randy Leavitt and Tony Yaniro that uses alternating hand-fist stacks and leg-calf locks; helpful for resting, and when placing protection.
Around 1862, Richard Lindon was desperate to find a replacement for the pig’s bladder and used an India rubber bladder, instead.
Containers effective against the American black bears in the Sierra Nevada may not be effective against the grizzly bears found elsewhere.
Flexible Flyer is a toy and recreational equipment brand, best known for the sled of the same name, a steerable wooden sled with steel runners.
For Yin Yoga The teacher of Yin Yoga Bernie Clark wrote that many yoga students see props as "cheating", perhaps feeling that since they are used in restorative yoga sessions, they are not suitable for other students.
The White Room - Product Innovation The White Room was first introduced to the 4FRNT community in 2010.
Comedian and TV personality Stephen Colbert used his show The Colbert Report to encourage his viewers to write in votes to use "Colbert" during the contest.
Due to the nature of the game, the fabric is generally strong, and traditionally rugby shirts have rubber buttons so that they would, if pulled on in a game, come undone rather than pop off.
z-pulley A system of rope, anchors, and pulleys; is typically used to extricate a climber after falling into a crevasse.
Later fuselages made of fabric-covered steel tubes were married to wood and fabric wings for lightness and strength.
For gymnastics, the ball originally began as a small ball around the size of a tennis ball and grew in size to make it easier for the audience to see and for the gymnast to roll along the body.
Sporting competitions In principle, the correction of ametropia is permitted with all suitable means.
Popularity The driving force in the company's growth and popularity has been in the skating scene, where its shoes has become popular among skaters for its durability.
Matthews, no longer features the product on their website, but notes that the company initially worked on "energy-generating play products" before shifting to other areas.
A shamiana (Bengali: শামিয়ানা, Urdu: شامیانہ) is a South Asian ceremonial tent, shelter or awning, commonly used for outdoor parties, weddings, feasts etc.
The vinyl tarp is ideal for agriculture, construction, industrial, trucks, flood barrier and temporary roof repair.
In 1957, Harrod Sport produced its first pair of football nets following a request from a local school teacher.
The German company Edelrid introduced the first kernmantel rope in 1953, which revolutionized fall prevention.
Athleta (and Umbro itself) were both manufacturers of Brazil jerseys for the 1958, 1962, and 1970 FIFA World Cups.
By 1992, 1.5 million had been sold at $19.95 directly from TV advertising, and 2 million more had been sold in stores, This was described by Jay Conrad Levinson and Seth Godin as "a classic example of the way that informercials can drive the retail market".
A notable exception was the tennis player Jane Régny (the pseudonym of Madame Balouzet Tillard de Tigny), who opened a couture house specialising in clothing for sport and travel.
Products Self-inflating mattress A Therm-a-Rest self-inflating mattress consists of an airtight nylon fabric envelope filled with a sheet of low density, open-cell polyurethane foam.
Equipment for the cyclist Basic equipment The basic equipment set out in the UCI technical regulation guide (Section 3: riders’ clothing) includes a jersey with sleeves, a pair of shorts and possibly a skinsuit.
Water shoe－The most common type and can be worn casually in and out of water because it functions as a normal shoe.
In 2007, Beermaker Rolling Rock aired a commercial poking fun of male thong wearers during Super Bowl XLI.
Solid-fuel stoves are also commonly used in emergency kits, both because they are compact and the fuel is very stable over time.
Edelson produced several prototypes that were used in a home and work office since the early 1990s with utilizing treadmills, stationary bicycles, and standing uptight to work.
The third method is to put a carpet or mat with woven or tufted fibres on the surface, then to brush in sand or sand mixes to keep the fibres in an upright position and finally to seed grass mixtures on top.
Most players affected choose to wear contact lenses, although Dutch player Edgar Davids, unable to wear contact lenses due to glaucoma, was known for his distinctive wraparound goggles.
In the Netherlands, the British forces were working in flooded conditions which demanded Wellingtons and thigh boots in vast supplies.
Type A ropes are intended for general use due to their superior strength; whereas type B ropes are intended for use in specialised circumstances where their usually thinner diameter and lower weight are critical for an operation.
Yoga as therapy is the use of asanas as a gentle form of exercise and relaxation, applied specifically with the intention of improving health.
Hockey jerseys started to become more popular as a fashion choice with the general public starting with the expansion of teams like the San Jose Sharks and Mighty Ducks of Anaheim to southern California.
Aiders (or the French etriers) are short 5–6 rung ladders made of lightweight webbing and are a central part of the technique of aid climbing.
The most common method is to use one bivouac sheet as the roof of the shelter and a second as the groundsheet.
History In the early 1800s, the term swag was used by British thieves to describe any amount of stolen goods.
In November 2020 ESPN2 broadcast a tape-delayed package covering the final round of the 2020 Tour Championship produced by Jomez Productions.
She said that despite spending a substantial amount of time on looking at exercises, she remained uncertain about which exercise to do.
Blue Valley High School, Stilwell, used by Blue Valley High school and Blue Valley West High School.
These jerseys are usually made from lightweight synthetic microfiber materials that wick moisture from the skin to aid evaporation, keeping the rider cool and dry.
It was reported that German team TSG 1899 Hoffenheim achieved its highest finish in the Bundesliga for five years - ninth place - after using the contraption.
Carrying sharp objects which could be used as weapons on one's person was banned in Finland in 1977.
Membership started with 25 members in 1974 with Harry Yalocki as the first Executive Director and Tom Burton as the first President.
Multi-pitch climbing, which can be done in sport or traditional formats, requires added rope devices like ascenders and descenders for moving up and down fixed-ropes.
Because it did not use a wick and did not produce soot, the Primus stove was advertised as the first "sootless" and "wickless" stove.
2009 – MTV presenter, Natasha Gilbert, stars in the first ever Life Style Sports Woman's Fitness Campaign "Your Life, Your Style, Your World”.
As of 2008 there are only four teams who do not have at least one player wearing the helmet: Boston Red Sox, Cleveland Indians, New York Yankees, and Washington Nationals.
Construction and materials The feel of a blade is influenced by the number of plies (layers) and the specific wood species used: 5-Ply Wood: Typically thinner and more flexible, providing greater dwell time and feedback, which is advantageous for generating spin.
The company started out as Bucksteel Mfg in Roswell, New Mexico, in a small plant on the old Army Air Force base south of town.
The athlete and wheelchair are viewed together by some sport researchers as a unified performance system.
Through points earned by finishing at DGPT tournaments, competitors can earn berths in the final season event, the Tour Championship.
The Footbanaut, which costs $3.5 million is as large as an apartment with a cube shape and is capable of firing balls from a range of 360 degrees at different speeds and trajectories toward the training players.
Copperheads are most often placed into small shallow seams and crevices by pounding or hammering them in to place, with a climbing hammer, sometimes with the aid of metal rod, chisel, or punch.
Reducing swing can be accomplished by minimizing the inner angle between individual anchors, and by increasing the number of individual anchors.
alpine style Carrying all your own gear (even for multi-day climbs); also called "light-weight" climbing; opposite of expedition style.
One of the most famous performers of the 20th century, Claude Alexander, was often billed as "Alexander the Crystal Seer".
Traditionally, a tent peg is improvised from a section of a small tree branch, if possible with a small side branch cut off to leave a hook, driven into the ground narrower end first.
Beginning with the 2014 season, all three governing bodies for lacrosse in the United States (US Lacrosse, NFHS, NCAA) have mandated that only balls meeting the NOCSAE ball standard may be used for competition.
McCardell once proclaimed: "I belong to a mass production country where any of us, all of us, deserve the right to good fashion." Martin credits the 1930s and 40s sportswear designers with freeing American fashion from the need to copy Paris couture.
Since this activity requires craning one's neck to look up at the climber, a common malady named "belayer's neck" can occur.
Both the Finnish Defence Forces and the Swedish Armed Forces issue rubber boots to all soldiers for use in wet conditions and during the winter with felt liners.
In artistic gymnastics, gymnasts will sometimes wear wrist guards to absorb the impact on the skills they perform.
Sun Mountain Sports, often referred to simply as Sun Mountain, is an American manufacturer of golf equipment based in Missoula, Montana.
The company was initially named Cascade Designs, which is now the parent company of Therm-a-Rest and other outdoor brands.
Therm-a-Rest is a Seattle, Washington-based outdoor product company specializing in camping mattresses, sleeping bags, camp chairs, cots, and pillows.
There are also auto-belay devices on the market which allow a climber to climb solo in their climbing gym.
As he desired to exude a certain "WASPishness" in his clothes, initially adopting the style of clothiers like Brooks Brothers, J.
Since 2006 there have been two separate companies creating Feiyue shoes: Da Fu Rubber and its subsidiary manufacturer, Double Coin Holdings, and a French company operating separately from the original Chinese company.
The service was founded in 2009 by Mark Gainey and Michael Horvath, along with co-founders Davis Kitchel, Chris Donahue, Mark Shaw, and Pelle Sommansson, and is based in San Francisco, California.
Drive and transmissions The simplest drive mechanism of stand-up scooters is the electric direct drive, where the motor directly drives the rear wheel.
It is now available for iPhone and Android devices and allows its user to track and analyze their performance and to share workout data and photos with its friends.
Ruder accepted, but the deal fell apart before the episode aired due to differences in strategy for the direction of the company.
History Predecessors Patent by Arthur Aubriot Pons The original device was patented in 1912 by Arthur A.
Heavier weighted clothing can also be used for slow, controlled movements, and as a way to add resistance to body-weight exercises.
Using a Grigri to bring up a second on a traditional anchor is however less favorable than other belay devices because the Grigri gives a more static catch with little to no rope slippage.
Media reaction The SOCCKET scored on the "Highbrow" and "Brilliant" quadrant of New York's "Approval Matrix" for the week of February 8, 2010.
Assistive technology is the array of new devices created to enable sports enthusiasts who have disabilities to play.
The construction of the lure is similar to how they were originally built, with the exception that the core is made from balsa wood instead of cork, and the outer coating is now paint and lacquer.
See also Crystal skull Magic Mirror (Snow White) Palantír Salvator Mundi (Leonardo), da Vinci's "Savior of the World" painting depicting Christ holding a crystal ball Seer stone (Latter Day Saints) Yard globe References Further reading Lang, Andrew (1900).
The frame design underwent a number of evolutions and eventually became the Mogema Diamond Series frame that for years was the most-prevalent inline speedskating frame in the world.
A study done on consumer practices suggests that users will either repair or purchase new objects when faced with worn materials that affect service.
In 2013, Life Style Sports became the official retail partner of Leinster Rugby, with a Life Style Sports shop located in Donnybrook Stadium and the Royal Dublin Society (RDS), home of Leinster Rugby.
In addition to this exercise, much like the trap bar can be used for deadlifts, a dip bar has other potential uses.
Martin Stadium at Washington State University in Pullman switched to Omniturf in 1990, and used it for a decade; like Autzen Stadium, it now uses FieldTurf.
Unlike quick releases, thru-axles are also available in many different lengths, which must be selected according to the frame and derailleur hanger of the bicycle.
Types Variations of climbing bolts include: Ring bolt has a loop on one end so it presents as a U-shape embedded in the wall.
It is another object of the invention to provide an exerciser which gives a greater amount of contraction for the same initial length of telescopic system.
Portable stoves in modern times can be divided into several broad categories based on the type of fuel used and the design of the aluminium stoving frame.
In cases of homogeneous terrain with few distinct features, a bearing between 2 known points on the map may be used.
This initiative aims to identify and nurture young female handball talent across India, providing a structured pathway for emerging athletes.
In 1988 TST was incorporated by David Lippes and soon after started producing rigid manual wheelchair frames from titanium.
In fall 2017, the company said it had sold its one-millionth net and was generating $15 million in sales per year.
Hockey jerseys are often more complicated than football or baseball jerseys, due the front crest being a major feature rather than player numbers.
World Tour In 1888–1889, Spalding took a group of major league players around the world to promote baseball and Spalding sporting goods.
Sustainability In 2020, Rapala VMC Corporation launched its new sustainability strategy, with the aim of being one of the world's leading fishing tackle companies in terms of sustainability by 2024.
These shoulder pads were sewn into the players' jerseys rather than being worn as a separate piece of equipment.
In a 2022 interview with Climbing, Sherman credited El Paso-based boulder climbers, Donny Hardin and Fred Nakovic, for the original idea "after a heel-bruising session not at Hueco, but City of Rocks, New Mexico".
It was used in the team portable apparatus competitions for women at both the 1952 and 1956 Olympics before the event was discontinued.
Aircraft To commemorate the company's 30th anniversary, the company began manufacturing gliders in 1936.
According to these results, Sports Tracker ranked 2nd-4th in distance accuracy, and 9th in elevation difference.
After that, flywheel resistance training was studied in space travelers exposed to microgravity environments to fight the effects of sarcopenia and bone mineral density loss, started at Karolinska Institute in the 1990s funded by NASA and ESA.
Playing across the western U.S., the tour made stops in Hawaii (although no game was played), New Zealand, Australia, Ceylon, Egypt, Italy, France, and England.
Any splices narrow enough to maintain smooth running would be less able to support the required weight.
A simple nylon guide is used to ensure both discs activate simultaneously to jam the discs between each drum ramp and the frame's lock ring.
A scrimmage vest, sometimes referred to as a pinny (NAE) or bib (BrE), is a piece of clothing or sportswear, often made of mesh, used in practices as a substitute for a sports team's usual uniform or to differentiate temporary teams in informal scrimmages.
The rope diameter and elasticity is critical for operation, as higher than normal fall forces can be generated due to the rapid locking rate, in the order of 13 kN at runners and anchor points.
Disabled Sports USA - The national organization that provides over 40 different adaptive sports to over 60,000 people with disabilities in the US through a network of over 100 community-based chapters.
Mountain bikers often prefer to point the lever backwards, to reduce the risk of it catching on undergrowth and being pulled open.
Some Robert Mole blades survive as souvenirs of travellers to Trinidad, Jamaica, and, less commonly, St.
Lowe's innovation also featured the first side compression straps, the first modern sternum strap, and the first load stabilizers.
Climbing routes that are bolted are known as sport climbs, and those that do not use (or allow) bolts, are known as traditional climbs.
Dip bars that are high enough can also be used via having the hands below the bar instead of on top of them, using the finger flexors to hang on.
Rugby football Until 1870, rugby was played with a near spherical ball with an inner-tube made of a pig's bladder.
Many players of other disc sports will often use a throw-and-catch (no plastic nails or sprays) version of freestyle to warm up for their disc games.
SIBBG conducts visual inspection and various structural tests, then containers are filled with food and left in the cages of captive black bears in a zoo in California.
SERENE Acronym for building anchors; stands for Strong, Equalised, Redundant, Efficient, No Extension.
In 2021, the company acquired Callaghan Country Wilderness Adventures in Whistler, and with it a backcountry lodge called the Journeyman Lodge.
the body belay for belaying, the dülfersitz abseil for descending, and the prusik knot for ascending), and these mechanical devices help with both control and safety in all conditions (e.g.
Mechanically the StairMaster 6000 was virtually identical to its predecessor, but the 6000 displayed workout information on a digital screen.
Runners are used by rock and ice climbers to extend the distance between an anchoring device and the rope.
Other names for the object include crystal sphere, orbuculum, scrying ball, shew/show(ing) stone, and more variants by dialect.
In 1982 Boreal, the Spanish company located in Villena, produced the "Firé" style of shoe with a revolutionary sticky rubber sole.
The exact heights at which these apply depend on the heights of the campers involved; those over 182 cm (5.97 ft) are likely to have less choice of tents than those who are somewhat shorter.
The 32-panel configuration is the spherical polyhedron corresponding to the truncated icosahedron; it is spherical because the faces bulge from the pressure of the air inside.
As the soldier passed along the mess line, food service personnel would dole out hot items first, often meat followed by vegetables, potatoes, and other side dishes, ostensibly separated by the tray dividers.
Uses The volume of the reservoir and the pack carrying it can vary widely depending on the purpose of the hydration pack.
United States For American football, Omniturf was installed several college football stadiums in the United States.
A modern example of this departure was evident during the 2012 Olympics when the USA men's volleyball team opted for the more athletic-friendly thigh length.
The common characteristic is a single wall, in most cases, waterproof." See also Poncho tent Bivouac Basha Hammock Camping == Notes ==
Additionally, common personal items such as toothbrushes, razor and toilet paper may also be stored in a chuck box.
there are both ice and bare rock sections), a separate M-grading grading system is used, which goes from M1, M2, M3, .....
Mountaineers sometimes build tent platforms in their base camps from materials such as pebble or snow.
Their original colours of light blue and white were chosen to reflect an association with Cambridge University, where a number of the club's founders had been educated.
Most puukkos have a slight shoulder but no ricasso (an unsharpened section nearest the handle), because the point where the blade ends and the handle begins, is also the point where most power can be applied.
References External links When Great Britain won the World Cup Tracking down the heroes of 1972 Warrington's World Cup heroes – Jim Challinor Coaching Profile at saints.org.uk HALL OF HEROES: Warrington Wolves' Jim Challinor, World Cup winning pläyer and coäch
Saddle seat riders, whose riding clothing styles were derived from men's business suits, wear Kentucky Jodhpurs in dark colors, usually black, navy blue, or a shade that matches the riding coat.
The NICE guidelines in the UK state that healthcare professionals should not offer rocker-bottom shoes as a treatment for people with lower back pain or sciatica.
Snowboarders such as Craig Kelly adapted plastic "tongues" to their boots to provide the same support for toe-side turns that the highback provided for heel-side turns.
The lusikkahaarukka are hard wearing, so much so that new conscripts are still issued with units manufactured during World War II.
Common items found in household and travel first aid boxes include adhesive bandages, sterile gauze pads, adhesive tape, antiseptic solutions, cotton wool, scissors, tweezers, disposable gloves, and wound dressings.
This issue was fixed in the 1990s when synthetic fibers were added, making the shoulder pads more breathable.
The company entered the sporting goods market in 1910, when it began to manufacture rubber golf balls at its base in Birmingham.
It is one of the five apparatuses utilized in this discipline, alongside the clubs, hoop, ribbon, and rope.
Kick scooter In 1974, the Honda company made the Kick 'n Go, a scooter driven by a pedal on a lever.
An agreement was reached soon after for Mogema metalworking to produce quantities of the frame for sale by the Stouwdam skate shop in nearby Oldebroek.
Subsequently, the design changed from copper/brass to spun aluminium; there is no record of when this change occurred.
See also Amateur wrestling Collegiate wrestling Freestyle wrestling Greco-Roman wrestling Leotard Wrestling shoes Wrestling headgear == References ==
Nuts may be generically referred to as wires or stoppers, though "Stopper" is a brand name of a nut made by Black Diamond Equipment.
Nylon was discovered in the late 1930s and was first introduced into fiber ropes during World War II.
1 stove, made of brass, consists of a fuel tank at the base, above which is a "rising tube" and the burner assembly.
The two most common materials are a mix between cotton and polyester (many of these shirts are meant for supporter use, though they can be used in a rugby game), and pure polyester (these shirts are generally designed specifically for game use by players).
Guidelines for health exercise can also be the purpose of training which can be pursued and monitored by loading a training program to a Smart Card and accomplish exercises guided by machines themselves.
Following on from their previous success in 2017 Nidecker acquired the binding and boot manufacturer Flow.
The Xiaomi Mi Smart Band 4 (Xiaomi Mi Band 4 in China) is a wearable activity tracker produced by Xiaomi Inc released in China on 16 June 2019, in Europe on 26 June 2019 and in India on 19 September 2019.
In 1989, the StairMaster 4000 was the company's most popular model, which Aron Kahn of the Ottawa Citizen attributed to its affordability and implementation of positive reinforcement through an on-screen display of goals and congratulatory messages.
A scrum machine, or scrummaging machine, is a padded, weighty device against which a pack of rugby forwards can practice scrummaging and rucking.
Mizuno Corporation (ミズノ株式会社, legally 美津濃株式会社, Mizuno Kabushiki-gaisha) (TYO: 8022) is a Japanese sports equipment and sportswear company, founded in Osaka in 1906 by Rihachi Mizuno.
The Razor was introduced to Japan in 1999, with many early adopters being young Japanese who used it for portable transport.
As China was experiencing economic deceleration, Keep in October 2019 laid off 15% of its workforce after having increased it by fourfold in 2018.
(Chuck and grub are both "cowboy" terms for food.) A chuck box, grub box, camp box and patrol box (scouting version) are all the same thing.
A physical therapist interviewed by Men's Health suggested that the device would not protect the back, but would reduce effort and so lower the effectiveness of exercise.
In the Tour de France, jerseys are awarded to the leaders of specific classifications after each stage: Yellow jersey for general classification, Green jersey for points classification, Polka dot jersey for mountains classification, and White jersey for best young rider.
Damping layers, shock pads, and anchoring techniques determine this flooring's level of performance.
In 2014, Giant introduced the D-Fuse seat post, it features cylindrical front side and flatten rear side, according to Giant, is designed to absorb shocks and vibrations to give flatter experience for cycling, and increase maneuverability on complex grounds.
Note that the necessity to serve multiple purposes can often be eased by the use of a gym floor cover to protect the floor.
They are designed to be lightweight and flexible, providing traction and ankle support on wrestling mats.
Wilson, former president of meatpacker Morris & Company, was appointed president by the controlling banks and renamed the company "Thomas E.
In such cases, the wearer maintains solid and stable footing while standing, but the rock of the heel assists with the propulsive phase of gait, making walking more natural and less painful to the affected joints.
The actual capacity in number of days of hiking food stored varies with the appetite of the hiker, the selection of food, and the skill in which it is packed, but a 700 in3 canister likely holds up to a week's worth of food for the average hiker.
He then describes the Malthusian struggle for existence, given the ability of organisms to reproduce in a world of finite resources.
The Selfish Genius: How Richard Dawkins Rewrote Darwin's Legacy is a 2009 book by Fern Elsdon-Baker about the history of evolutionary theory, published to coincide with the 150th anniversary of the publication of Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species.
According to Kösemen, the: "tone of voice is a high school student fanboying on the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire by Edward Gibbon".
This is a good example of the type of non sequitur that is abundant in this book, in that weighability and pourability are not criteria that come to mind when evaluating theories, nor is autoevolution itself especially weighable or pourable.
The second edition of The Dinosauria revised and reorganized into 30 chapters organized into two sections, the first on "Dinosaur Systematics" and the second on "Dinosaur Distribution and Biology".
He examines the magnificent achievements of civilised society, the sublime explorations that make up science and the humanities, as well as the horrible behaviours of this same society such as war, slavery and rape.
In Prum's "Beauty Happens" hypothesis, mates may have arbitrary preferences for certain traits and their offspring inherit not only the traits but also the preference for them leading to a runaway co-evolution, a concept envisioned by Ronald Fisher a century ago.
a worthy addition to the numerous individual studies of either man", and praised Lander for providing a new means of understanding and appreciating each man.
The theoreticians of Judaism and Christianity have misinterpreted the biological significance of sex, with the insistence that its primary role is procreation, and particularly in its treatment of homosexuals.
describes the book as a useful text for philosophy of religion courses, particularly those on the topic of the problem of evil.
Television documentary The documentary The Real Eve, based on the book and known as Where We Came From in the United Kingdom, was released in 2002.
Dinosaurs (The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages) is a book by Thomas R.
In May 1865 he sent a manuscript to his friend Thomas Huxley outlining his theory which he called pangenesis and asking whether he should publish it.
Prum indicates that while Charles Darwin made this argument in The Descent of Man, published in 1871, the concept was sidelined and forgotten and the notion of natural selection being the sole driver of evolution took over.
Reception Jerry Coyne writes "no one can finish Life without having accrued considerable knowledge of evolutionary history and a sense of the excitement of discovery that can be conveyed only by a professional scientist chipping away at the rock face of his discipline.
An Introduction to African Cave Taphonomy is a 1981 book by Charles Kimberlin Brain regarding the taphonomy of cave deposits in Africa.
[...] But the whole point of agriculture is to manipulate the environment so as to increase the amount of food that it will provide.
Shapiro in a review for the National Center for Science Education commented: David Holbrook, Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge, has written a polemic not so much against evolution as against scientific reductionism (which he sees incarnate in neo-Darwinism).
Darwin: The Life of a Tormented Evolutionist is a biography of Charles Darwin by Adrian Desmond and James Moore.
The Journey of Man: A Genetic Odyssey is a 2002 book by Spencer Wells, an American geneticist and anthropologist, in which he uses techniques and theories of genetics and evolutionary biology to trace the geographical dispersal of early human migrations out of Africa.
The second type, "proactive aggression", is planned, premeditated, and involves deliberate tactical strikes.
Hamilton realized was that the same applies to other close relations—brothers and sisters, nephews and nieces, close cousins.
For instance, the apex predator of the South American pampas, the coelurosaurian "cutlasstooth", has evolved huge, cutting teeth to allow it to prey upon large sauropods.
Ward ultimately concludes that humanity may last for hundreds of millions of years, overcoming every obstacle.
Branham) "Day of the Hunters" (Isaac Asimov) "Herding with the Hadrosaurs" (Michael Bishop) "Ontogeny Recapitulates Phylogeny" (R.
The discovery was made thanks to a graduate student named Alan Hildebrand that notified Alvarez of the evidence of a crater on the Yucatan Peninsula, which had never been published in the scientific literature by the Mexican petroleum geologists that had found it.
The first part, "A Guide to the Interpretation of Bone Accumulations in African Caves," details the processes and effects on how taphonomy occurs.
While the majority of Bone Sharps is true and all of it is based on history, Ottaviani took liberties throughout to better serve the story.
The Creationists: From Scientific Creationism to Intelligent Design is a history of the origins of anti-evolutionism by Ronald Numbers.
Williams writes that the only way adaptations can come into existence or persist is by natural selection.
Sujatha Byravan wrote in The Hindu that the book tells a compelling story of our forefathers based on genetic evidence.
Making the New from the Old describes gene duplication, particularly in the evolution of color vision in primates.
The book is written in question/answer format from Dembski's point of view as one of the conceptual leaders in the movement.
Anthropologists no longer regard "race" as a useful concept in understanding human evolution and variation." The anthropologist C.
It also considers questions of longevity – the previous generation dies because its biological clock shuts down metabolism and repair as to divert investment from the parent individual to that of the offspring.
Though Dixon made illustrations of his future animals to pitch the project, the final book used illustrations by other artists due to a publisher decision.
References ISBN 0-09-928375-1 (UK edition) ISBN 0-8050-6332-3 (US edition) External links Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation, Google Books Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation at IMDb
Frozen Evolution is a 2008 book written by parasitologist Jaroslav Flegr, which aims to explain modern developments in evolutionary biology.
Interactive version Using BBCi (BBC Interactive Television), viewers could during the programme's original airing watch Walking with Cavemen with additional layers of factual evidence, such as facts about fossils and comprehensive summaries of the science behind every episode.
Dennett does not believe there is much hope of discovering an algorithm for doing the right thing, but expresses optimism in our ability to design and redesign our approach to moral problems.
Moreover, it is but fair to leave it to Darwin himself at first to beat off the attacks of his opponents from the splendid structure which he has raised with such a master-hand.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
Hooker and Darwin exchanged roughly 1400 letters over the course of 40 years during their friendship.
In sexual reproduction they were transmitted from parents to their offspring with the mixing of the gemmules producing offspring with 'blended' characteristics of the parents.
In this book, Swamidass, a computational biologist and Christian, uses the findings of biology and genealogy to affirm belief in both evolution and a historical Genesis creation narrative.
The book collects fourteen novelettes and short stories by various science fiction authors, together with a general preface by the editors.
Müller argued that Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection that he had advanced in his book The Origin of Species only five years earlier was correct, citing evidence that he had come across in Brazil.
The high incidence of rape by non-alpha male orangutans and infanticide by male gorillas are also cited as examples of our mutual genetic heritage.
They do not.We are in full agreement that there is no support from the field of population genetics for Wade's conjectures.
Darwinian Fairytales is a 1995 book by the philosopher David Stove, in which the author criticizes application of the theory of evolution as an explanation for sociobiological behavior such as altruism.
The entomologist and geneticist Michael Majerus reviewed this in his 1998 book Melanism: Evolution in Action, and compared it with more recent studies which did not support some of Kettlewell's conclusions.
Martin Stuart-Fox noted that Holbrook's criticism of natural selection was a "cobble together, in a sort of scissors-and-paste criticism...
Reception Neil Tappen, writing in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology, wrote that the book "brings together the findings of a versatile investigator who has been working many years to interpret the hominid-bearing cave deposits in South Africa.
The book received anonymous reviews by biologist Alfred Russel Wallace that were generally supportive.
Description The Descent of Woman states that female apes raised their young without help from the males and that they stayed away from any males unless they were in their estrous cycle.
Fifty years after its publication, the National Academy of Sciences commissioned a book entitled Tempo and Mode in Evolution: Genetics and Paleontology 50 Years After Simpson edited by Walter M.
Acclaim and criticism The book has provoked controversy with some online commentary claiming it is another 'flea', a term used by Dawkins to describe people who have published books about him or his ideas.
The story's time traveller who views this new refuse-covered habitat is gruesomely attacked by ravenous flesh-eating crows.
Some groups of Humans choose to believe that God himself had placed them on there, leading to a resurgence in Religion, however, a leading theory is that an Alien Species had took them onto this planet.
The book rejects reductionist biology and takes influence from Michael Polanyi and vitalist philosophy.
Reception to Gale's book The book has received positive reviews, but the title has been criticized as misleading.
In a talk given to the large Houston Geological Society, Morris received a whimsical introduction by the president that fell well short of praise for his work.
Ward describes garbage dumps 10 million years in the future infested with multiple species of rats, a snake with a sticky frog-like tongue to snap up rodents, and pigs with snouts specialized for rooting through garbage.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
Arthropods are built from simple repeating patterns, but from those patterns there are many possible permutations (as Robert May noted earlier.) 8.
This original Man After Man would have been set in the same world as After Man and would have focused on man-made catastrophes destroying the ecosystem established in the previous book.
Biblical passages may be viewed metaphorically, taking them out of conflict with scientific knowledge.
Lima-de-Faria holds that there are no random events in evolution, there is no natural selection and all living and non-living matter evolve from the same laws.
The book is one of a series of long essays by respected contemporary Darwinian thinkers, which were published under the collective title Darwinism Today.
Others however argue that the broad scope of the edits in the fifth edition make up for any generalizations pertaining to specific details related to geological paleontology.
Away on a cave expedition, Athalaric asks Honorius to become a priest on his father's request, to lead Rome away from decay.
The invention of a super-strong material named Bulerite is partially responsible for this, which enables Earth to, at last, initiate a burgeoning space industry.
When I found out that Knight had met Cope just before Cope died, I became convinced that he was the character I needed.
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
Examples include Easter Island and the ruins of Petra, both of which were the result of deforestation resulting in desertification, according to Diamond.
In response the British Centre for Science Education published an open letter to UK school librarians together with a leaflet called "Explore Evolution Exposed" that was based on the NCSE analysis and adapted for the UK.
He theorizes about how the timing of orgasm can affect fertility, due to changes in the cervical mucus said to accompany orgasm, which then affect its ability to "filter out" sperm and prevent them from traveling into the cervix.
The bee falls into the liquid; as it escapes from the orchid, it deposits its pollen sacs on the bee’s back.
Vail, a river guide in the park, had recently converted to Christianity and adopted "'a different view' of the Canyon, which, according to a biblical time scale, cannot possibly be more than about a few thousand years old.
Notably, in Chapter XXVII Darwin introduced his "provisional hypothesis" of pangenesis that he had first outlined to Huxley in 1865.
Forced by a grassland fire to take refuge in a jungle, she survives an attack by pithecines and eventually joins another hominid tribe, who use axes much to her amazement.
Other topics mentioned include the evolution of the brain (with emphasis on the function of the neocortex in humans), the evolutionary purpose of sleep and dreams, demonstration of sign language abilities by chimps and the purpose of mankind's innate fears and myths.
The first unabridged edition of the book came out in 1995, and the third, latest unabridged edition came out in 2000; abridged versions were also distributed.
This was a book Wallace wrote as a defensive response to the scientific critics of natural selection.
Gould's claim is that "the Cambrian phylum count was larger, maybe much larger, than the contemporary count.
Distribution In 2007 tens of thousands of copies of the book were given to schools, prominent researchers and research institutes throughout the United States and Europe, including to a large number of French, Belgian, Spanish and Swiss schools.
On the Movements and Habits of Climbing Plants is a book by Charles Darwin first printed in book form in 1875 by John Murray.
See also The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature Mutual Aid: A Factor of Evolution References External links A Darwinian Left for Today and Beyond Peter Singer Excerpted from A Darwinian Left, pp.
believe that God has written on the rocks one enormous and superfluous lie for all mankind." (reproduced from Hardin, 1982).
Summary Chapter One, "What is Evolution?", gives a brief overview of Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection as theory and fact.
Some other taxonomic choices, such as the assignment of some genera to specific groups and the use of original clades (such as "minmids" and "paxceratopsians") also received some criticism.
David McKinnon, writing for the Journal of Clinical Investigation, notes that the book is stylistically and conceptually similar to the works of Stephen Jay Gould, but based strongly on findings in molecular biology that were not yet available for Gould.
Teihard's description of consciousness and of the Omega Point has been characterised as prophetic of the information age and the concept of the technological singularity.
It is a follow-up to his earlier book The Naked Ape; both books examine how the biological nature of the human species has shaped the character of the cultures of the contemporary world.
As in Dixon's previous work, After Man, ecology and evolutionary theory are applied to create believable creatures, all of which have their own binomial names and text describing their behaviour and interactions with other contemporary animals.
Animals mentioned: Tyrannosaurus Edmontosaurus Triceratops Ankylosaurus Ornithomimidae Dromaeosauridae Troodontidae == References ==
Gould's hope was to show that the relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny is fundamental to evolution, and at its heart is a simple premise—that variations in the timing and rate of development provide the raw material upon which natural selection can operate." M.
Paulin stated that "Darwin's conception of the cruelty of nature to her sentient offspring is wholly mistaken." He argued that the struggle for existence emphasized by Darwin was immoral.
Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History is a 1989 book on the evolution of Cambrian fauna by Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould.
Modern influence Various alternative evolutionary mechanisms favoured during "the eclipse of Darwinism" became untenable as more was learned about inheritance and mutation.
He cites data suggesting that in Britain at least 4% of children (but perhaps as many as 6–12%) are conceived via sperm competition, and claims that this lower figure is consistent with the earlier finding that 10% of children have a biological father who is other than their supposed father.
Our Flesh and Blood: Arms Races, the Human Race, and Natural Selection looks at evolutionary arms races, starting with the rough-skinned newt and garter snake.
It should rather be said that plants acquire and display this power only when it is of some advantage to them; this being of comparatively rare occurrence, as they are affixed to the ground, and food is brought to them by the air and rain." (p.
Since the genetic code is degenerate, some mutations result in codons that code for the same amino acid.
In tall and dense forests, twining plants would probably succeed better with minor expenditure of organic matter.
Modern biologists respect Poulton's advocacy of natural selection and sexual selection, despite the lack at the time of an adequate theory of heredity, and his recognition of frequency-dependent selection.
It is just a thoughtful, readable, and very stimulating book." Reviews In his review of The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change, Donald J.
Gould's thesis was that if the history of life were replayed over again, human-level intelligence would prove unlikely to ever arise again.
Carroll, Endless Forms Most Beautiful Richard Dawkins, The Blind Watchmaker Jonathan Weiner, The Beak of the Finch == References ==
Nagel's position is that principles of an entirely different kind may account for the emergence of life, and conscious life.
Bold lines, plentiful white space, and careful use of just two colors provide clarity and focus throughout the progression.
Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth is a book about natural history by British paleontologist Richard A.
It is a general interest book on evolution, following on his two previous works Endless Forms Most Beautiful and From DNA to Diversity (an introductory text for biology graduate students).
Creationists mentioned in the book include George Frederick Wright, Louis Agassiz, John William Dawson, George D.
Heilmann examines and rejects Beebe's own Proavis (named "Tetrapteryx" by Beebe) based on his analysis of Beebe's documentation of pelvic wings in bird embryos, which Heilmann found little evidence for.
Addressing topics such as animal psychology, the history of ethics, and human–animal relationships, the book argues that animals' mental and emotional capacities warrant ethical and legal recognition.
Morgan also wrote that the female orgasm went from a "natural sexual response" to becoming "very difficult".
The Sandwalk Adventures is a graphic novel created by Assistant Professor of Biology at Juniata College, Jay Hosler.
The book was described as having significant, "broad" coverage, but not as much "depth", making it a potential resource for students and researchers looking to find more-detailed references.
Ridley argues that few, if any, aspects of human nature can be understood apart from sex, since human nature is a product of evolution, driven by sexual reproduction in the case of sexual selection in human evolution.
The book is a journey through 65 million years of palaeontological records, from the extinction of the dinosaurs to just before present.
In the arena of efficacy he explores the forces beside natural selection that have been considered in evolutionary theory.
Paul when creating his creatures and also used patterns seen in the actual evolutionary history of the dinosaurs and pushing them to an extreme, such as with the creation of the "gourmand", an armless and massive scavenger descended from the tyrannosaurids.
It includes a timeline and author's note at the end for older children or parents who want material for further discussion.
Dawkins says the gene is the fundamental unit of selection, and then points out that selection does not act directly upon the gene, but upon "vehicles" or '"extended phenotypes".
Flowering Plants: Evolution Above the Species Level is a book written by evolutionary biologist and botanist G.
Ridley points out the relationship between cholesterol, steroidal hormones such as progesterone, cortisol, aldosterone, testosterone and oestradiol.
Newman Phenotypic Plasticity and Evolution by Genetic Assimilation, Vidyanand Nanjundiah Genetic and Epigenetic Factors in the Origin of the Tetrapod Limb, Günter P.
Townsend described it as a "scholarly book, well organized and well written, interesting to the intelligent reader whatever his special field".
It was highly important in asserting his dominance of comparative anatomy, and in the long run more influential in establishing evolution amongst biologists than was the debate with Samuel Wilberforce.
The book is widely used, and has received excellent reviews: "This book is a ′must′ for a biology or geology student and researcher concerned by palaeontology.
It is a geological blink." And, "it is no wonder the eye has evolved at least forty times independently around the animal kingdom." God's utility function This chapter is Dawkins's take on the meaning of life or the purpose of life.
Reception and legacy In his review for the Humboldt Journal of Social Relations, Robert Wisniewski commended the book for its revolutionary ecological perspective on global issues.
It was intended to promote the eugenics movement and bring its aims to a broader non-academic audience.
An article by Fern Elsdon-Baker in New Scientist of 19 July 2009 entitled the "Dawkins Dogma" contains parts of the arguments put forward within the book.
Mammoths, Sabertooths, and Hominids: 65 Million Years of Mammalian Evolution in Europe is a book written by Jordi Agustí and illustrated by Mauricio Antón.
The volume made The New York Times Best Seller list, was the 1991 winner of the Royal Society's Rhone-Poulenc Prize and the American Historical Association's Forkosch Award, and was a 1991 finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.
Cuvier concluded there must have been sudden and violent catastrophes that caused mass extinctions of viable species.
Gail Patricelli, Eileen Hebets, and Tamra Mendelson, while describing the book as containing "engaging descriptions of the natural world", criticize Prum's reasoning, description of modern sexual selection research, and conclusions.
He begins by stating that humans are indeed animals, sharing a common ancestry with all living creatures.
Lincoln and Darwin is structured as a series of alternating narratives concerning each man's interactions with the events and discoveries of the mid-19th century.
Kesavan Veluthat of The Hindu stated that the book shows a firm basis on which the study of Indian history can begin.
The earliest groups of humans are believed to find their present-day descendants among the San people, a group that is now found in western southern Africa.
Relation to other works The Scopes Trial was the subject of a comprehensive study previously written by L.
Despite his heavy teaching load and administrative duties at Virginia Tech, where he had just become head of a large civil-engineering program, Morris made steady progress on his section of the book, eventually contributing more than twice as much material as Whitcomb.
Dennett noted discomfort with Darwinism among not only lay people but also even academics and decided it was time to write a book dealing with the subject.
However, the pseudo-scientific method he uses in his work The Atlas of Creation cannot in any way be considered scientific.
He argues in the book that selection is not the mechanism of evolution because it cannot be weighed on a balance, poured into a vial, or measured in specific units.
He also looks at the relationship between science and race in the 19th century United States and the emergence and influence of scientific racism.
Trivers' starting point is to illustrate that self-deception is something of an evolutionary puzzle.
Here the cuckoo does not interact directly with the host (which could be meadow pipits, dunnocks or reed warblers).
(1982) Naked Emperors, Essays of a Taboo-Stalker, William Kaufmann Inc., Los Altos, CA, USA ISBN 0-86576-032-2 Roizen, Ron (1982).
Prum's chapter on duck sex shows how female ducks evolved having convoluted vaginas to protect themselves against effects of forced copulation.
First published in 1992 as The Creationists: The Evolution of Scientific Creationism, a revised and expanded edition was published under the current title in 2006.
By only presenting facts without any theory or proof, Harun Yahya abuses the credulity of individuals who listen to him or read his works.
There is an internet version of the test called the Moral Sense Test which is aimed at a worldwide public.
The book also developed concepts of time (offered in Bergson's earlier work) which significantly influenced modernist writers and thinkers such as Marcel Proust and Thomas Mann.
Most evolution—"nine-tenths"—occurs by the steady phyletic transformation of whole lineages (anagenesis).
They encounter descendants of beetles, rats, lizards and toads, and Cactus is hunted by a huge, transparent salamander.
(Adnan Oktar has also let readers download much of his work from his dozens of websites for free.) According to biologist Kenneth R.
Thus, history's final state will take place such that all of the creatures of the universe exist together with Jesus Christ as the "Logos" or sacred "Word".
Although Greenworld has so far only been published in Japan, Dixon has expressed interest in getting an English-language version published.
It was not until one century later that feminists were working from inside the natural sciences, and could address Darwin's androcentricity.
"In the general proportions of the body and limbs there is a remarkable difference between the Gorilla and man (p87)...
For example, selection between individuals should be preferred to group selection as an explanation if both seem plausible.
To him that predicament is the natural outcome of evolutionary processes and the powers given to humans through those processes.
But the tenth chapter, "Retardation and Neoteny in Human Evolution", would "mislead a great many people" who would be unable to make an informed judgement about its conclusions.
He writes that mind is a basic aspect of nature and that any philosophy of nature that cannot account for it is fundamentally misguided.
She criticized Darwin for basing his theory of evolution on "time-honored assumption that the male is the normal type of his species".
as a needed summary of our knowledge about the fossils found in the Cretaceous rocks of western Kansas and elsewhere in the Great Plains, Everhart's book is a success." Brian R.
He had a large collection of additional notes and by the middle of June had written drafts of an introduction and two chapters on the domestication of pigeons that would eventually form part of The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication.
Reception Horace Freeland Judson praised the book for its extremely extensive coverage which he likened to an encyclopaedia.
Dobzhansky considered Genetics of the Evolutionary Process (1970) a fourth edition, but one so much changed that it needed a new title.
It enclosed a twenty pages manuscript describing an evolutionary mechanism that was similar to Darwin's own theory.
It was broadcast on Arte as part of the television programme The Human Adventure, and dubbed into German under the title Charles Darwin und die Evolution.
Chapter 18, Cures Recombinant DNA enabled genetic manipulation with restriction enzymes and a ligase.
Moore challenges the traditional view that places human consciousness and mental abilities on a unique pedestal, arguing that many cognitive and emotional capacities, such as problem-solving, memory, emotions, and social behaviors, are also present in varying degrees across the animal kingdom.
For instance he considers mutations to be errors only, not a process that has persisted to provide variation and evolutionary potential.
It was first published in paperback by Ace Books in June 1990, and as an ebook by Baen Books in November 2014.
Amongst the theories advanced in the book, Lane endorses the hydrogen hypothesis for the formation of the eukaryotic cell, whereby mitochondria are the original defining characteristic of the structure.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
It was described in a 1998 review by palaeontologist Mark Purnell as being uniquely inclusive in its coverage of the subject, going into detail about the history of the science as well as methodology and other aspects.
https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=23485800&lang=ru&site=eds-live&scope=site Moral Minds: How Nature Designed Our Universal Sense of Right and Wrong.
Lima-de-Faria emphasizes that the laws of physics and chemistry generate the basic forms found in living organisms, and that physicochemical forces and organisms interact at many levels.
Hall, Evolution & Development Book review – by Dan Graur, The Quarterly Review of Biology Notes External links Frozen Evolution - available online
The Turkish original was translated into English, German, Chinese, French, Dutch, Italian, Urdu, Hindi and Russian.
It is only by the accumulation of new and valuable material that the controversy will gradually be brought into a state fit for final decision, and this appears to be for the present of more importance than a repeated analysis of what is already before us.
In Neanderthals, Bandits and Farmers, Tudge offers an explanation for the beginning of the population explosion and that farming was not suddenly invented 10,000 years ago, but had existed as what he called proto-farming or hobby farming for at least 30,000 years earlier.
In a morphodynamic system, the tendency towards symmetry produces not global equilibrium, but a complex geometric form like a hexagonal Benard cell or the resonant frequency of a flute.
Several future human species evolve through natural means and through genetic engineering, conducted by both humans themselves and by a mysterious and superior alien race called the Qu.
Content The work is an examination of naturalist Charles Darwin and the theory of evolution he proposed and marshaled evidence for in The Origin of Species.
Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex is a 2002 popular science book by the British evolutionary biologist Olivia Judson written in the role of her alter ego, agony aunt Dr Tatiana.
"The interpretation of something as information indirectly reinforces the capacity to do this again." References Incomplete Nature: How Mind Emerged from Matter.
It focuses largely on how the philosophical assumptions of biologists influenced and limited their understanding.
The aim of the book is to "clarify certain issues in the study of adaptation and the underlying evolutionary processes." Though more technical than a popular science book, its target audience is not specialists but biologists in general and the more advanced students of the topic.
Summary The Naked Ape, which was serialised in the Daily Mirror newspaper and has been translated into 23 languages, depicts human behaviour as largely evolved to meet the challenges of prehistoric life as a hunter (see Nature versus nurture).
Examples are the decorative feathers of the male great argus, the dances of the male red-capped manakin, and the flight patterns of the male golden-winged manakin.
In a letter to Joseph Alston, then superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park, the presidents of seven geoscience societies voiced their concerns: "The Grand Canyon provides a remarkable and unique opportunity to educate the public about earth science.
Stepping from simple to higher organized organisms, Lorenz shows how they gain and benefit from information.
Kelleher comments that the authors’ argument makes it difficult to imagine the language in which their book would have been written, were it not for the ability to digest milk.
President of the Linnean Society (1912–1916) Royal Society's Darwin Medal in 1914 Linnean Society's Linnean Medal in 1922.
Boquila trifoliata, a South American member of the family Lardizabalaceae, is a climbing vine with a highly variable appearance (phenotype).
Military camouflage relies predominantly on disruptive patterns, though methods such as outline disruption are also used, and others have been prototyped.
Ships Until the 20th century, naval weapons had a short range, so camouflage was unimportant for ships, and for the men on board them.
Although lions are cathemeral, and may be active at any time of day or night, they prefer to hunt at night because many of their prey species (zebra, antelope, impala, wildebeest, etc.) have poor night vision.
Thus, it is not certain that the form is indeed extinct, if one can speak of "extinction" in any but a population genetical sense anyway.
The pied raven had large areas of white feathering, most frequently on the head, the wings and the belly, and its beak was light brown.
They also demonstrated that crickets, like moths, fly away from bats once they've heard their echolocating calls, an example of negative phonotaxis.
Buchanan White, in an 1877 letter to Nature made the association between the moth's high-pitched sounds and the high-pitched bat calls and wondered whether the moths would be able to hear it.
Several other insects have sensitive ultrasonic hearing that probably is used in bat evasion, but direct evidence is not yet available.
Cepaea is a genus of large air-breathing land snails, terrestrial pulmonate gastropod molluscs in the family Helicidae.
First World War In the First World War, the French army formed a camouflage corps, led by Lucien-Victor Guirand de Scévola, employing artists known as camoufleurs to create schemes such as tree observation posts and covers for guns.
Its similarity to the "broadband, harsh sounds" used as warning calls by birds and mammals may enhance its effectiveness.
Infants might also lack the physical ability to produce alarm calls or lack the necessary experience to classify unfamiliar objects as dangerous and worthy of an alarm signal.
In a manner that is similar to the development of Drosophila fruit flies, Hh is expressed in all cells in the posterior compartment of the developing butterfly wing during the mid fifth instar of butterfly wing development.
In some cases, the variation in larval type is a 'plastic' trait in that it is environmentally mediated.
A gene is said to be polymorphic if more than one allele occupies that gene's locus within a population.
Sir Edward Bagnall Poulton, FRS HFRSE FLS (27 January 1856 – 20 November 1943) was a British evolutionary biologist, a lifelong advocate of natural selection through a period in which many scientists such as Reginald Punnett doubted its importance.
The presence of genes for synthesizing carotenoids in these arthropods has been attributed to independent horizontal gene transfer (HGT) events from fungi.
"By skilful jugglings we are shown how anything and everything may be rendered inconspicuous," citing the skunk among other boldly black and white animals with both the skunk coloration and the "well-known skunk smell".
Such animals, like the tawny dragon lizard, may resemble rocks, sand, twigs, leaves, and even bird droppings (mimesis).
Statistical research has shown that an individual of a given phenotype will generally be, compared to an individual of a differing phenotype, more resistant to certain diseases while less resistant to others.
A study by Deborah K Letourneau in 1983 found that the ants were so sated by the plant's pearl bodies that more than half the insect eggs they encountered while patrolling were dropped to the ground.
Implicitly, also, Cott follows Thayer in his Figure 3 "Larva of Eyed Hawk-moth" in both "natural (e.g.
On a day-to-day basis, species can see significant changes in their internal temperatures, their general movement, feeding and body mass.
Among vertebrates, snakes such as the rubber boa and the coral snake coil up and hide their head, instead displaying their tail as a false head.
Many species of cat, including Geoffroy's cats, jungle cats, pampas cats, and servals, have white markings, whether spots or bars, on the backs of their ears; it is possible that these signal "follow me" to the young of the species.
Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats.
As the predominant chlorophylls degrade, the hidden pigments of yellow xanthophylls and orange beta-carotene are revealed.
Each of these areas has one to four mimicry rings, with patterns different from those in other areas.
Snipers of many armies have since then adopted the ghillie suit for the effective concealment that it affords.
However, when the water level is low and desiccation is imminent, the tadpoles develop a morphology (wide mouth, strong jaw) that permits them to cannibalize.
Gould as distinct species, supposed to have been created here; yet the close affinity of most of these birds to American species in every character, in their habits, gestures, and tones of voice, was manifest.
In the species Hemisphaerota cyanea, the larva constructs a shield which may be more descriptively called a "fecal thatch", because it is woven from narrow, coiled strands of frass.
He predicted that the insects (Brood X) "may be expected again in they year 1800 which is Seventeen Since their third appearance to me".
The second type of thorn mimicry, a more classic case of Batesian mimicry, involves the pointed, colorful organs like buds, leaves and fruit of mimetic plant species that mimic warning-coloured aposematic colorful thorns not found anywhere else in the organism.
Among the observations in Bates's 1862 paper is the statement: I was never able to distinguish the Leptalides from the species they imitated, although they belong to a family totally different in structure and metamorphosis from the Heliconidae, without examining them closely after capture.
The genetics of this situation cannot be clarified in the absence of a detailed breeding program, but two loci with linkage disequilibrium is a possibility.
Many external mechanical defenses and quantitative defenses are constitutive, as they require large amounts of resources to produce and are costly to mobilize.
On the contrary, when a given allele is low in frequency (p → {\displaystyle \to } 0) it will increase in frequency in the future, avoiding its extinction and maintaining polymorphism at the locus.
These results were consistent with those found in studies on chickens, lizards, and blue crabs at the time, and provided support that rabbits use tonic immobility as an antipredator response.
This cost can be seen when plants that use chemical defenses are compared to those plants that do not, in situations when herbivores are excluded.
For instance, the orchid Epipactis helleborine is physiologically and morphologically adapted to attract social wasps as their primary pollinators.
Batesian mimicry is frequency dependent: it is most effective when the ratio of mimic to model is low; otherwise, predators will encounter the mimic too often.
Vein cutting is when a herbivore creates small openings along the length of the leaf vein, while trenching refers to the creation of a cut across the width the leaf allowing the individual to safely consume the separated portion.
In ecology, crypsis is the ability of an animal or a plant to avoid observation or detection by other animals.
See also Animal suicide Anti-predator adaptation Apoptosis Autohaemorrhaging Exploding animal Self-destruct == References ==
Tarantulas from the genera Avicularia, Pachistopelma and Iridopelma possess Type II hairs (Hoover, 1997).
The Española cactus finch (Geospiza conirostris) lives on Isla Genovesa (formerly Tower Island) which is formed from a shield volcano, and is home to a variety of birds.
Bamboo fossils are uncommon because their hollow stems and fibrous tissues decay rapidly, leaving little trace in the geological record.
Plants, on the other hand, protect their resources for use in growth and reproduction, by limiting the ability of herbivores to eat them.
Mobbing can also be used to obtain food, by driving larger birds and mammals away from a food source, or by harassing a bird with food.
A third hypothesis is that automimics are more likely to die or to be injured by a predator's attack.
coli and many other bacteria, but also in several eukaryotic model organisms such as baker's yeast and fission yeast.
Costs and decision to display Risks While animals performing distraction displays are rarely documented as being killed, risks to the displaying animal do exist.
Vertebrates Tonic immobility has been observed in a large number of vertebrate taxa, including sharks, fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Research has also shown that they do not develop typical signs of aging and do not accumulate age-related diseases like cancer.
Hamilton's frog, found on Stephens and Maud islands, stays hidden for most of the day when temperatures are warmer and is mainly active at night.
It may be that since plants often grow in clusters, foraging herbivores are hard to deceive once they have started to feed in an area.
Awards and distinctions Cuthill won the Scientific Medal of the Zoological Society of London in 1998, the Nature and NESTA award for mentoring in science in 2005.
Seven species of frogs in the genus Pleurodema have lumbar glands (making the animals distasteful, so in their case the display is likely aposematic); these glands are usually boldly contrasted in black as a further warning.
Autothysis (from the Greek roots autos- αὐτός "self" and thysia θυσία "sacrifice") or suicidal altruism is the process where an animal destroys itself via an internal rupturing or explosion of an organ which ruptures the skin.
Its presence in Northeast India indicates that the region served as a refuge where bamboo continued to survive under favorable conditions.
Poulton's son, Ronald Poulton-Palmer played international rugby for England and was killed in May 1915 in World War I.
The philosopher and jazz musician David Rothenberg wrote of Cott's art: Back to Hugh Cott's marvelous engraving of a potoo hidden in a black and white Costa Rican forest, frozen vertically like the tree trunk on which it hides.
When necessary, in order to scare away a potential predator, it can display markings which resemble eyes.
Self-decoration is seen in some insects such as caddis fly larvae, the nymphs of the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
Scorpions perform non-bluffing threat displays, as they have powerful defences, but various predators still eat them.
When the wasp eggs hatch, the larvae feed on the stinkbug eggs from within, killing the stinkbug eggs, after which the wasps hatch.
Hemiptera Cercopidae – including spittlebugs Prosapia bicincta and Prosapia ignipectus Lepidoptera Tiger moth adults, such as Arctia caja, which mixes haemolymph with glandular products (neurotoxic choline esters).
nemoralis in Scotland and Scandinavia and it is the only one of the two species in Iceland and the only one native to North America.
He then went on an expedition to the lower Amazon (1925–1926), and on research trips to the Zambesi river area in Africa (1927), including Mozambique, Zambia and East Africa, and Lanzarote (1930).
Now, that these colours are onely fantastical ones, that is, such as arise immediately from the refractions of the light, I found by this, that water wetting these colour'd parts, destroy'd their colours, which seem'd to proceed from the alteration of the reflection and refraction.
The urticating setae, or spines, can cause irritation when they break off and lodge in the skin of larger animals or humans.
Agri-environment schemes spread across the neighbouring area of Romney Marsh have been set up to provide over 800 hectares of additional flower-rich habitat for the bees.
Light pollution Light pollution is a major issue for nocturnal species, and the impact continues to increase as electricity reaches parts of the world that previously had no access.
Some, such as Emma Lundgren and Stüssy, have created their own designs or integrated camouflage patterns with other symbols.
As seals are distributed over such a large area, these display behaviours can slightly change geographically as males try to appeal to the largest number of females possible over a large geographical range.
All the same, the conspicuousness of motion raises the question of whether and how motion itself could be camouflaged.
Sheppard found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
They are known for their ability to spray a liquid with a strong, unpleasant scent from their anal glands.
Multi-shelled chitons also volvate, although evidence suggests that they do not use this behavior as an anti-predatory defense but rather as a form of locomotion.
Studies of rear-wing damage support the hypothesis that this strategy is effective in deflecting attacks from the insect's head.
History In 1889, William Bateson observed in detail the way that decorator crabs fix materials on their backs.
The other side of the argument is that the alarm calls create mental representation of predators in the listeners minds.
By appearing non-living, they are less likely to be eaten by herbivores, and in dusty dry conditions among stones are extremely difficult to detect.
The colour is mainly determined by alleles at a single locus with brown dominant to pink, which is dominant to yellow.
Orthoptera Bushhoppers, such as Dictyophorus spumans, Phymateus viridipes and Phymateus leprosus – their haemolymph contains cardiac glycosides, sequestered from milkweed on which they feed.
He studied, described and presented examples of such diverse camouflage effects as obliterative shading, disruption, differential blending, high contrast, coincident disruption, concealment of the eye, contour obliteration, shadow elimination, and mimicry.
Thus, he began to give more attention to the underwater lighting and scenery where he frames his objects, to create better image compositions, "I’ve really worked on making my photographs aesthetically pleasing", he has mentioned.
References External links b/w photo of the Braunschweig specimen Den Hvide Ravn- extensive information in Danish
Electrical mimicry The electric eel, Electrophorus, is capable of delivering a powerful electric shock that can stun or kill its prey.
Kerr was accompanied by John Samuel Budgett, who studied the frogs of the area and discovered a new genus.
Polymorphisms are also classified based on whether the change is in the sequence of the resulting protein or in the regulation of the expression of the gene, which can occur at sites that are typically upstream and adjacent to the gene, but not always.
hortensis is more active at lower temperatures, aestivates higher on the vegetation and is more diurnal, although this appears to be independent of whether the other species is present or not.
These and other species of rodent are also known to exhibit a so-called "false caudal autotomy," whereby the skin on the tail slides off with minimal force, leaving only the bare vertebral structure.
Among animals, self-decoration is found in decorator crabs, some insects such as caddis flies and the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
In cases where this relationship demonstrates "specificity" (the evolution of each trait is due to the other), and "reciprocity" (both traits must evolve), the species are thought to have coevolved.
Mimesis Mimesis is practised by animals such as the leafy sea dragon, Phycodurus eques, and the leaf scorpionfish, Taenianotus triacanthus, which resemble parts of plants, and gently rock their bodies as if swayed by a current.
Some species preferentially select stinging animals such as sea anemones or noxious plants, benefiting from aposematism as well as or instead of crypsis.
For instance, tree-dwelling parakeets are mainly green; woodcocks of the forest floor are brown and speckled; reedbed bitterns are streaked brown and buff; in each case the animal's coloration matches the hues of its habitat.
Martin Stevens is a British sensory and evolutionary ecologist, an underwater photographer and a natural history and popular science writer.
Gaping is a common form of behavior in the animal kingdom, in which an animal opens its mouth widely and displays the interior of its mouth, for any of various purposes.
History The pied raven received binomial names such as Corvus leucophaeus (by Vieillot, 1817) and Corvus leucomelas (by Wagler, 1827).
Larvae of species that eat aphids decorate themselves with the waxy material produced by the aphids; larvae decorated like this are ignored by ants which farm the aphids, whereas the ants eject undecorated larvae, making this a wolf in sheep's clothing strategy of aggressive mimicry.
These colours provide strong contrast with green foliage, resist changes in shadow and lighting, are highly chromatic, and provide distance dependent camouflage.
In experiments with Bombus terrestris, workers were trained to solve a novel task (string-pulling) to obtain a reward, and naïve individuals that observed trained demonstrators were significantly more successful than those that did not.
Nakagawa & Cuthill (2007) was selected by Biological Reviews as one of their highlight papers of the last 200 years == References ==
Foraging behaviour Bumblebees generally visit flowers that exhibit the bee pollination syndrome and these patches of flowers may be up to 1–2 km from their colony.
This is sufficient to maintain the system, although in this case the heterozygote has slightly lower viability.
They may make use of conspicuous mating displays, including vocal signals, which may then develop through sexual selection.
Once she has infiltrated a host colony, the Psithyrus female kills or subdues the queen of that colony, and uses pheromones and physical attacks to force the workers of that colony to feed her and her young.
The aphid forms a large ball-shaped plant-made nest, called the gall, in which hundreds of aphids are living as a colony.
The coloration of these insects evolved between 1860 and 1940 to match the changing colour of the tree trunks on which they rest, from pale and mottled to almost black in polluted areas.
Therefore, alarm calling may require advanced levels of development, perception, categorization, and social cognition.
Size dimorphism shows a correlation with sexual cannibalism, which is prominent in spiders (it is also found in insects such as praying mantises).
More recent studies generally find more recent (Late Carboniferous to Permian) age for the basalmost divergence among lissamphibians.
Some animals are named for their tendency to use gaping as a threat display, or for the features that become apparent when making such a display.
Medical Entomology: a Survey of Insects and Allied Forms Which Affect the Health of Man and Animals.
Male body size is not under selection due to cannibalism in all spider species such as Nephila pilipes, but is more prominently selected for in less dimorphic species of spiders, which often selects for larger male size.
Polyphenism in Lepidoptera is commonly seen in the form of seasonal morphs, especially in the butterfly families of Nymphalidae and Pieridae.
One habitat is rocky sea-side cliffs, where the plants are bushy with broad leaves and expanded inflorescences; the other is among sand dunes where the plants grow prostrate with narrow leaves and compact inflorescences.
The background colour of the shell ranges from dark brown, through pink to yellow or even approaching white.
Termites will use autothysis to defend their colony, as the ruptured gland produces a sticky harmful secretion that leads to a tar baby effect in defense.
Genotype contributes to phenotype, the observable traits and characteristics in an individual or organism.
Ford described peppered moth evolution as "one of the most striking, though not the most profound, evolutionary changes ever actually witnessed in nature".
Defensive Batesian In Batesian mimicry, named after the English naturalist Henry Walter Bates, a harmless species has evolved to imitate the warning signals of a harmful species directed at a predator.
By the use of cutting edge camera equipment, the researchers successfully showed how the orange is perceived by horses as shades of green.
In fact, two new carotenoids that were isolated from a sponge called Phakellia stelliderma showed mild cytotoxicity against mouse leukemia cells.
To reduce light production, the squid can change the shape of its iris; it can also adjust the strength of yellow filters on its underside, which presumably change the balance of wavelengths emitted.
Applications An example of the usage of SSLPs (microsatellites) is seen in a study by Rosenberg et al., where SSLPs were used to cluster different continental populations of human beings.
Tenebrionidae (darkling beetles) - larvae of Asbolus verrucosus have been observed to autohaemorrhage while they feign death.
In nesting bumblebees, it is modified to form a pollen basket, a bare shiny area surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen, whereas in cuckoo bumblebees, the hind leg is hairy all around, and they never carry pollen.
The thrushes hunt by sight, and selectively capture those forms which stand out against the background, so predation may be one factor influencing the different proportion of phenotypes (morphs) found in woodland than in open habitats.
Several mimicry mechanisms in plants were described in the 20th century, starting with Pouyannian (1916), Vavilovian (1951), and Gilbertian (1975).
Autotomy serves either to improve the chances of escape or to reduce further damage occurring to the remainder of the animal such as the spread of a chemical toxin after being stung.
These ants mostly use autothysis against other arthropods, like invading ant colonies or against termite colonies, and are rather ineffective towards larger vertebrate predators such as lizards or birds.
In 1775, Thomas Jefferson recorded in his "Garden Book" Brood II's 17-year periodicity, writing that an acquaintance remembered "great locust years" in 1724 and 1741, that he and others recalled another such year in 1758 and that the insects had again emerged from the ground at Monticello in 1775.
Second, both dishonest and honest individuals must escalate aggression according to the quality they have signalled, regardless of their actual quality.
The blood of these animals usually contains toxic compounds, making the behaviour an effective chemical defense mechanism.
These bristles can embed themselves in the other animal's skin or eyes, causing physical irritation, usually to great discomfort.
Clarke for his pioneering work on frequency-dependent selection "by predators acting on non-mimetic polymorphic prey (i.e.
Sexual dimorphism is present in all families of the Papilionoidea and more prominent in the Lycaenidae, Pieridae, and certain taxa of the Nymphalidae.
In other cases, the larval type is genetically determined - a good example is the polychaete Streblospio benedicti, where some mothers release small planktotrophic eggs and other mothers release large lecithotrophic eggs.
Unkenreflex – interchangeably referred to as unken reflex (Unke is the German word for fire-bellied toads) – is a defensive posture adopted by several branches of the amphibian class, including salamanders, toads, and certain species of frogs.
As such it can be any mechanism that may evolve by natural selection; no conscious intention is involved.
For example, the larva of the tortoise beetle Plagiometriona clavata obtains chemical compounds from its diet of bittersweet (Solanum dulcamara), excretes them, and incorporates them into its shield, where they repel the predatory ant Formica subsericea.
Termites Groups of termites whose soldiers have been found to use autothysis to defend their colonies include Serritermes serrifer, Dentispicotermes, Genuotermes, and Orthognathotermes.
The "piebald" allele(s) was or were presumably recessive or (if more than one) only caused the novel coloration if they were all present.
Plot summary Technical Fairy, First Class gives the troops "A Lecture On Camouflage" with the aid of Private Snafu.
In the Teleogryllus cricket, two ascending interneurons carry information to the brain - one carries information about cricket song (around 5 kHz) while the other gets excited at ultrasound and other high frequencies (15–100 kHz).
The important role of secondary plant substances in plant defense was described in the late 1950s by Vincent Dethier and G.S.
With this subfamily's notorious obscurity, and the relative variation between species and subspecies, the relationships between members is still quite indeterminate.
A larger cornea and pupil correlated well with whether these two classes of organisms were nocturnal or not.
A study by Ward-Fear, Brown & Shine (2010) found that meat ants could severely injure toad metamorphs within 5 seconds, and that more than 80% of ant attacks were fatal.
Similarly, sea urchins use their tube feet to pick up debris from the bottom and attach it to their upper surfaces.
Nocturnality is a behavior in some non-human animals characterized by being active during the night and sleeping during the day.
Evolution Aposematism, camouflage, and mimicry Müllerian mimicry relies on aposematism, or warning signals.
This pattern implies that the rattling "could serve as a general attention-getting device", which "is designed as a deimatic or startle display".
Skunks carry just enough for five or six successive sprays – about 15 cm3 – and require up to ten days to produce another supply.
The majority of the subfamily extending as far north as the Russian Far-East (Elcysma westwoodi) and as far west as Pakistan (Campylotes).
It excretes an amount of feces, sometimes with a droplet of gluey secretion, and places it on the caudal furca using its anal turret.
Some species of frogs are blinded by the quick changes in light, while nocturnal migratory birds may be disoriented, causing them to lose direction, tire out, or be captured by predators.
Its exceptional preservation provides insight into bamboo evolution and survival during the Ice Age.
Weaponry leads to increased fitness by increasing success in male–male competition in many insect species.
Cuttlefish may be doing this with their active camouflage by choosing to form stripes at right angles to their front-back axis, minimising motion signals that would be given by occluding and displaying the pattern as they swim.
Such injury-feigning displays are particularly well known in nesting waders and plovers, but also have been documented in other species, including snowy owls, the alpine accentor, and the mourning dove.
He was a junior research fellow at Brasenose College Oxford until 1989 when he became a lecturer at the University of Bristol.
External links Tree of Life: Caudata Salamander Gallery Caudata Culture Critter Crossings: Salamander Tunnels at U.S.
Müllerian mimicry has been implicated in the coloration of some Mediterranean nudibranchs, all of which derive defensive chemicals from their sponge diet.
Similarly the threat display of the walking stick phasmid (Peruphasma schultei) is not a bluff: the insect sprays defensive dolichodial-like monoterpene chemical compounds at attackers.
Genotype can also be used to refer to the alleles or variants an individual carries in a particular gene or genetic location.
Spatial disturbance The increasing amount of habitat destruction worldwide as a result of human expansion has given both advantages and disadvantages to different nocturnal animals.
Camouflage While trying to photograph a hen partridge on her nest, Cott waited for hours for the bird to return, finally taking some pictures of the empty nest before giving up.
Form and phase are sometimes used, but are easily confused in zoology with, respectively, "form" in a population of animals, and "phase" as a color or other change in an organism due to environmental conditions (temperature, humidity, etc.).
Allocation cost is related to the channelling of a large quantity fitness-limited resources to form resistance traits in plants.
In Taï National Park and on Tiwai Island, monkeys have a predisposition to threat-specific alarm signals.
Two Napoleonic era skirmishing units of the British Army, the 60th Foot and 95th Rifles, were the first to adopt camouflage in the form of a rifle green jacket, while other British troops largely continued to wear red coats.
Normal individuals of the subspecies varius, which is found on Iceland and the Faroe Islands, already show a tendency towards more extensive white feather bases compared with the nominate subspecies.
Pixellated shapes pre-date computer aided design by many years, already being used in Soviet Union experiments with camouflage patterns, such as "TTsMKK" developed in 1944 or 1945.
He conducted a range of experiments on the colours of polymorphic caterpillars to examine if food, background or other factors are involved in their colour changes.
Another plant that could well be a cryptic mimic of its host is the parasitic Australian mistletoe, Amyema cambagei, which has an "uncanny resemblance" to the foliage of Casuarina trees.
Further, it grades into other means of protection including "the borrowing of protection from aposematic partners" and the use of "fortified hiding-places" and burrows.
It uses occlusion, covering certain facial features; transformation, altering the shape or colour of parts of the face; and a combination of the two.
Dodson, is a form of reproductive floral mimicry where the model belongs to a different species than the mimic.
There's evidence that topsentins are potent mediators of immunogenic inflation, and topsentin and scytonemin are potent inhibitors of neurogenic inflammation.
Nevertheless, statistically we can detect systematic variation at continental scales, and also between habitats, and at various scales down to a few tens of metres.
The points of these bristles usually break off in the wound, and the acrid fluid is pressed into it.
General disturbances in Taï National Park and both general disturbances and leopards on Tiwai Island result in alarm calls assembled into long sequences.
Cott suggests this follows the more general rule that animals resemble their background: in a transparent medium like seawater, that means being transparent.
Subsequent research has provided evidence for only two functions of moth sounds, neither of which involve "auditory crypsis".
Humans In humans, environmental differences due to lifestyle choices are a consideration, for instance the differences between someone who spends much time on the sofa before the television, beer in hand, and an individual who spends his time in the gym or the soccer field can be pronounced.
Defence of Darwinism Edward Bagnall Poulton's 1890 book, The Colours of Animals, renamed Wallace's concept of warning colours "aposematic" coloration, as well as supporting Darwin's then unpopular theories of natural selection and sexual selection.
Emsleyan/Mertensian Emsleyan or Mertensian mimicry describes the unusual case where a deadly prey mimics a less dangerous species.
In his 1896 book Charles Darwin and the Theory of Natural Selection, Poulton described Darwin's On the Origin of Species as "incomparably the greatest work" that the biological sciences had seen.
Here they observed that both seem to be expressed in eyespots, suggesting a relation with the Hh signaling pathway.
Popular science writing Besides the academic textbooks, Stevens has also written for a broader audience and has three books on popular science.
They have aposematic (warning) coloration, often consisting of contrasting bands of colour, and different species of bumblebee in a region often resemble each other in mutually protective Müllerian mimicry.
Both male and female puffins use gaping as a prominent part of their threat display, with "a range of intensities" based on the situation, and with puffins engaging in territorial gape contests, where they mirror each other until one gives up and leaves, or an actual fight occurs.
The Stewart–Walker lemma provides necessary and sufficient conditions for the linear perturbation of a tensor field to be gauge-invariant.
W = L λ = 2 10 = 0.2 {\displaystyle W={\frac {L}{\lambda }}={\frac {2}{10}}=0.2} We can even apply Little's Law to the counter itself.
Hence d ( x 0 , x ′ ) < r {\displaystyle d(x_{0},x')<r} by the triangle inequality, which implies that A n q ⊂ U α 0 {\displaystyle A_{n_{q}}\subset U_{\alpha _{0}}} .
Applications As mentioned before, the Algorithmic Version of the Lovász Local Lemma applies to most problems for which the general Lovász Local Lemma is used as a proof technique.
Notes References External links Favorite Theorems: Unique Witnesses by Lance Fortnow The Isolation Lemma and Beyond by Richard J.
When the water reaches elevation a {\displaystyle a} , the underwater surface is M a = def f − 1 ( − ∞ , a ] {\displaystyle M^{a}\,{\stackrel {\text{def}}{=}}\,f^{-1}(-\infty ,a]} , the points with elevation a {\displaystyle a} or below.
Assume that a primitive nth root of unity ζ n ∈ O k , {\displaystyle \zeta _{n}\in {\mathcal {O}}_{k},} and that n and p {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {p}}} are coprime (i.e.
Calderón–Zygmund decomposition Given f as above, we may write f as the sum of a "good" function g and a "bad" function b, f = g + b.
For example, that force may be the gravity, when f {\displaystyle f} is a constant function (since the gravitational force is the same at all points).
{\displaystyle w(S)=\sum _{x\in S}w(x)\,.} Then, with probability at least 1 − n / N {\displaystyle 1-n/N} , there is a unique set in F {\displaystyle {\mathcal {F}}} that has the minimum weight among all sets of F {\displaystyle {\mathcal {F}}} .
The W p m ( Ω ) {\displaystyle \textstyle W_{p}^{m}(\Omega )} norm is not the usual one but the terms are scaled with d {\displaystyle \textstyle d} so that the right-hand inequality in the equivalence of the seminorms comes out exactly as in the statement here.
Bramble and Stephen Hilbert, bounds the error of an approximation of a function u {\displaystyle \textstyle u} by a polynomial of order at most m − 1 {\displaystyle \textstyle m-1} in terms of derivatives of u {\displaystyle \textstyle u} of order m {\displaystyle \textstyle m} .
A first proof uses the definition of E p ( x ) {\displaystyle E_{p}(x)} and Dwork's lemma, which says that a power series f ( x ) {\displaystyle f(x)} with rational coefficients has p {\displaystyle p} -integral coefficients if and only if f ( x p ) f ( x ) p ≡ 1 mod p Z p [ [ x ] ] .
Then lim sup ξ → ± ∞ | f ^ ( ξ ) | ≤ lim sup ξ → ± ∞ | ∫ ( f ( x ) − g ( x ) ) e − i x ξ d x | + lim sup ξ → ± ∞ | ∫ g ( x ) e − i x ξ d x | ≤ ε + 0 = ε .
This property gives actually an equivalent form for the theorem (except for the value of the constant).
First, we reformulate the statement of the lemma to ( 1 N ∑ i ∈ I ∖ I N | a i | q ) 1 / q ≤ ( 1 N ∑ j ∈ I | a j | p ) 1 / p .
Under this correspondence, Dickson's lemma may be seen as a special case of Hilbert's basis theorem stating that every polynomial ideal has a finite basis, for the ideals generated by monomials.
{\displaystyle Y.} In fact, a relatively open map is a strongly open map if and only if its image is an open subset of its codomain.
For all x ′ ∈ A n q {\displaystyle x'\in A_{n_{q}}} , notice that: d ( x n q , x ′ ) ≤ diam ⁡ ( A n q ) < r 2 {\displaystyle d(x_{n_{q}},x')\leq \operatorname {diam} (A_{n_{q}})<{\frac {r}{2}}} , because n q ≥ M {\displaystyle n_{q}\geq M} .
The colorful name of the lemma comes from imagining the graph of the function g as a mountainous landscape, with the sun shining horizontally from the right.
{\displaystyle \displaystyle {\|\int _{X}T(x)v\,d\mu (x)\|\leq {\sqrt {AB}}\cdot \|v\|.}} The result can be proven by replacing sums with integrals in the previous proof, or by utilizing Riemann sums to approximate the integrals.
The jump part of g {\displaystyle g} is g ( t ) − g ( t − ) = h ( t ) d t ∫ Δ g Δ g η g ( ⋅ ) d Δ g + d J g ( t ) .
Nakayama, Tadasi (1951), "A remark on finitely generated modules", Nagoya Mathematical Journal, 3: 139–140, doi:10.1017/s0027763000012265, ISSN 0027-7630, MR 0043770.
(Here, "of finite type" means "finitely generated algebra" and "finite" means "finitely generated module".) The lemma was introduced by E.
It is an important tool in algebraic geometry, because it allows local data on algebraic varieties, in the form of modules over local rings, to be studied pointwise as vector spaces over the residue field of the ring.
Finite-dimensional range: Any continuous surjective linear map L : X → Y {\displaystyle L:X\to Y} with a Hausdorff finite-dimensional range is an open map and thus a topological homomorphism.
However, Dickson's lemma concerns only tuples of natural numbers, and over the natural numbers there are only finitely many minimal pairs.
Data reordering, bit reversal, and in-place algorithms Although the abstract Cooley–Tukey factorization of the DFT, above, applies in some form to all implementations of the algorithm, much greater diversity exists in the techniques for ordering and accessing the data at each stage of the FFT.
{\displaystyle \bigcup _{n=1}^{\infty }A_{n}\in D.} To be clear, this property also holds for finite sequences A 1 , … , A n {\displaystyle A_{1},\ldots ,A_{n}} of pairwise disjoint sets (by letting A i := ∅ {\displaystyle A_{i}:=\varnothing } for all i > n {\displaystyle i>n} ).
Lemma Suppose that ℓ {\displaystyle \textstyle \ell } is a continuous linear functional on W p m ( Ω ) {\displaystyle \textstyle W_{p}^{m}(\Omega )} and ‖ ℓ ‖ W p m ( Ω ) ′ {\displaystyle \textstyle \left\Vert \ell \right\Vert _{W_{p}^{m}(\Omega )^{^{\prime }}}} its dual norm.
In mathematics, Abhyankar's lemma (named after Shreeram Shankar Abhyankar) allows one to kill tame ramification by taking an extension of a base field.
There exists a neighborhood U of Λ with the following property: for any δ > 0 there exists ε > 0, such that any (finite or infinite) ε-pseudo-orbit that stays in U also stays in a δ-neighborhood of some true orbit.
See also Banach–Alaoglu theorem – Theorem in functional analysis Bishop–Phelps theorem Eberlein–Šmulian theorem – Relates three different kinds of weak compactness in a Banach space James's theorem – Theorem in mathematics Goldstine theorem References Renardy, Michael & Rogers, Robert C.
The first upper bound for this problem was proven (for d = 1 and d = 2) in 1938 by John Edensor Littlewood and A.
A controlled vector field has a continuous flow (despite the fact that a controlled vector field is discontinuous).
Although the exact value of F(X) is not known for any two-dimensional convex X, much work was devoted to establishing upper and lower bounds in various classes of shapes.
Indeed, for any non-Noetherian ring A we can define an A-algebra structure on C = A ⊕ A {\displaystyle C=A\oplus A} by declaring ( a , x ) ( b , y ) = ( a b , b x + a y ) {\displaystyle (a,x)(b,y)=(ab,bx+ay)} .
Since X {\displaystyle X} is sequentially compact, there exists a subsequence { x n k } {\displaystyle \{x_{n_{k}}\}} (with k ∈ Z > 0 {\displaystyle k\in \mathbb {Z} _{>0}} ) that converges to x 0 {\displaystyle x_{0}} .
An assignment (evaluation) to all random variables is denoted ( v P ) P {\displaystyle (v_{P})_{\mathcal {P}}} .
The lemma is named after Issai Schur who used it to prove the Schur orthogonality relations and develop the basics of the representation theory of finite groups.
The last equality is true because γ {\displaystyle \gamma } is a geodesic, therefore γ ′ {\displaystyle \gamma '} is parallel.
Statement Recall that a topological vector space (TVS) X {\displaystyle X} is Hausdorff if and only if the singleton set { 0 } {\displaystyle \{0\}} consisting entirely of the origin is a closed subset of X .
Define the maximal function f ∗ {\displaystyle f^{*}} by setting for every x {\displaystyle x} (using the convention ∞ × 0 = 0 {\displaystyle \infty \times 0=0} ) f ∗ ( x ) = sup r > 0 ( μ ( B ( x , r ) ) − 1 ∫ B ( x , r ) | f ( y ) | d μ ( y ) ) .
Roughly stated, the theorem says that if a formula φ implies a formula ψ, and the two have at least one atomic variable symbol in common, then there is a formula ρ, called an interpolant, such that every non-logical symbol in ρ occurs both in φ and ψ, φ implies ρ, and ρ implies ψ.
Since almost surely t ∗ = lim sup S N = X 1 + lim sup ∑ n = 2 N X n = X 1 + t ∗ {\displaystyle t^{*}=\limsup S_{N}=X_{1}+\limsup \sum _{n=2}^{N}X_{n}=X_{1}+t^{*}} and X1 is not a.s.
Normalizing the measure space to 1, it becomes a probability space and the measure P ( A ) {\displaystyle P(A)} of its set A {\displaystyle A} represents the probability of finding the system in the states represented by the points of that set.
Applications Graph counting lemma If we have enough information about the regularity of a graph, we can count the number of copies of a specific subgraph within the graph up to small error.
Since the maps t ↦ f ( s , t ) {\displaystyle t\mapsto f(s,t)} are geodesics, ∂ ∂ t ⟨ ∂ f ∂ t , ∂ f ∂ s ⟩ = ⟨ D ∂ t ∂ f ∂ t ⏟ = 0 , ∂ f ∂ s ⟩ + ⟨ ∂ f ∂ t , D ∂ t ∂ f ∂ s ⟩ = ⟨ ∂ f ∂ t , D ∂ s ∂ f ∂ t ⟩ = 1 2 ∂ ∂ s ⟨ ∂ f ∂ t , ∂ f ∂ t ⟩ .
There is a Fodor's lemma for trees: Fodor's lemma also holds for Thomas Jech's notion of stationary sets as well as for the general notion of stationary set.
For example, the Dirac delta function distribution formally has a finite integral over the real line, but its Fourier transform is a constant and does not vanish at infinity.
This construction can be perturbed to a ring of n {\displaystyle n} finite circles, without additional tangencies, whose minimum radius is arbitrarily close to this bound.
Since T v T p M ≅ T p M ≅ R n {\displaystyle T_{v}T_{p}M\cong T_{p}M\cong \mathbb {R} ^{n}} , we can put α ( t ) := v ( t + 1 ) {\displaystyle \alpha (t):=v(t+1)} .
In symbols, E ⁡ ( A ) = [ GL ⁡ ( A ) , GL ⁡ ( A ) ] {\displaystyle \operatorname {E} (A)=[\operatorname {GL} (A),\operatorname {GL} (A)]} .
Proof of the graphon counting lemma: It suffices to prove | t ( F , W ) − t ( F , U ) | ≤ | E ( F ) | ‖ W − U ‖ ◻ .
For a vertex x ∈ X i {\displaystyle x\in X_{i}} , let V x {\displaystyle V_{x}} denote V i {\displaystyle V_{i}} .
In mathematical analysis, the rising sun lemma is a lemma due to Frigyes Riesz, used in the proof of the Hardy–Littlewood maximal theorem.
Now assume that n ≥ 0 {\displaystyle n\geq 0} and that the sets U ( k / 2 n ) {\displaystyle U\left(k/2^{n}\right)} and V ( k / 2 n ) {\displaystyle V\left(k/2^{n}\right)} have already been constructed for k ∈ { 1 , … , 2 n − 1 } {\displaystyle k\in \{1,\ldots ,2^{n}-1\}} .
{\displaystyle H.} Let f : U → R {\displaystyle f:U\to \mathbb {R} } be a ( k + 2 ) {\displaystyle (k+2)} -times continuously differentiable function with k ≥ 1 ; {\displaystyle k\geq 1;} that is, f ∈ C k + 2 ( U ; R ) .
In mathematics, the Riemann–Lebesgue lemma, named after Bernhard Riemann and Henri Lebesgue, states that the Fourier transform or Laplace transform of an L1 function vanishes at infinity.
{\displaystyle {\begin{bmatrix}u&0\\0&u^{-1}\end{bmatrix}}=e_{21}(u^{-1})e_{12}(1-u)e_{21}(-1)e_{12}(1-u^{-1}).} Here, e i j ( s ) {\displaystyle e_{ij}(s)} indicates a matrix whose diagonal block is 1 {\displaystyle 1} and i j {\displaystyle ij} -th entry is s {\displaystyle s} .
In statistics, the Robbins lemma, named after Herbert Robbins, states that if X is a random variable having a Poisson distribution with parameter λ, and f is any function for which the expected value E(f(X)) exists, then E ⁡ ( X f ( X − 1 ) ) = λ E ⁡ ( f ( X ) ) .
Thus it's important to use all integers mod n and not just the units mod n to define the right permutation.) When n = p is an odd prime and a is not divisible by p, multiplication by a fixes 0 mod p, so the sign of multiplication by a on all numbers mod p and on the units mod p have the same sign.
Similarly exists t ∗ ∈ [ − ∞ , ∞ ] {\displaystyle t_{*}\in [-\infty ,\infty ]} such that lim inf S n = t ∗ {\displaystyle \liminf S_{n}=t_{*}} almost surely.
In the original result, the choice of the polynomial is not specified, and the value of constant and its dependence on the domain Ω {\displaystyle \textstyle \Omega } cannot be determined from the proof.
The Lax–Milgram theorem, named after Peter Lax and Arthur Milgram who proved it in 1954, provides weak formulations for certain systems on Hilbert spaces.
In particular, we have that either ker ⁡ ( f ) = M {\displaystyle \ker(f)=M} , meaning that f {\displaystyle f} is the zero morphism, or that ker ⁡ ( f ) = 0 {\displaystyle \ker(f)=0} , meaning that f {\displaystyle f} is injective.
A version of the degree sum formula also applies to finite families of sets or, equivalently, multigraphs: the sum of the degrees of the elements (where the degree equals the number of sets containing it) always equals the sum of the cardinalities of the sets.
{\displaystyle x\in \mathrm {ker} (f^{k})+f^{k}(y)\subseteq \mathrm {ker} (f^{k})+\mathrm {im} (f^{k}).} Consequently, M {\displaystyle M} is the direct sum of i m ( f k ) {\displaystyle \mathrm {im} (f^{k})} and k e r ( f k ) {\displaystyle \mathrm {ker} (f^{k})} .
If X is countable, the Rasiowa–Sikorski lemma yields a D-generic filter F and thus a function F: X → Y.
In mathematics, Spijker's lemma is a result in the theory of rational mappings of the Riemann sphere.
When dealing with the Lebesgue measure on RN, it is more customary to use the easier (and older) Vitali covering lemma in order to derive the previous maximal inequality (with a different constant).
Proof Euler's proof of the degree sum formula uses the technique of double counting: he counts the number of incident pairs ( v , e ) {\displaystyle (v,e)} where e {\displaystyle e} is an edge and vertex v {\displaystyle v} is one of its endpoints, in two different ways.
Statements of the lemma (symmetric version) Let A 1 , A 2 , … , A k {\displaystyle A_{1},A_{2},\dots ,A_{k}} be a sequence of events such that each event occurs with probability at most p and such that each event is independent of all the other events except for at most d of them.
Proof Let Σ {\displaystyle \Sigma } be a well-quasi-ordered alphabet of symbols (in particular, Σ {\displaystyle \Sigma } could be finite and ordered by the identity relation).
References Édouard Goursat, "Sur les substitutions orthogonales et les divisions régulières de l'espace", Annales Scientifiques de l'École Normale Supérieure (1889), Volume: 6, pages 9–102 J.
{\displaystyle S_{N}=a_{0}b_{0}-a_{1}B_{0}+a_{N}B_{N}+\sum _{n=1}^{N-1}B_{n}(a_{n}-a_{n+1}).} Finally S N = a N B N − ∑ n = 0 N − 1 B n ( a n + 1 − a n ) .
{\displaystyle h.} Céa's lemma can be applied along the same lines to derive error estimates for finite element problems in higher dimensions (here the domain of u {\displaystyle u} was in one dimension), and while using higher order polynomials for the subspace V h .
{\displaystyle m\leq n.} By reordering μ m w m , … , μ n w n {\displaystyle \mu _{m}w_{m},\ldots ,\mu _{n}w_{n}} if necessary, we may assume that μ m {\displaystyle \mu _{m}} is nonzero.
{\displaystyle |\operatorname {Ric} |_{g}^{2}\leq \textstyle {\frac {1}{n}}R^{2}.} If ( M , g ) {\displaystyle (M,g)} is a connected smooth pseudo-Riemannian manifold, then the first three conditions are equivalent, and they imply the fourth condition.
By symmetry, { ( g ′ N ′ , g N ) ∣ ( g , g ′ ) ∈ H } {\displaystyle \{(g'N',gN)\mid (g,g')\in H\}} is the graph of a well-defined homomorphism G ′ / N ′ → G / N {\displaystyle G'/N'\to G/N} .
{\displaystyle \langle T_{v}\exp _{p}(v),T_{v}\exp _{p}(w)\rangle _{q}=\langle v,w\rangle _{p}.} For p ∈ M {\displaystyle p\in M} , this lemma means that exp p {\displaystyle \exp _{p}} is a radial isometry in the following sense: let v ∈ B ϵ ( 0 ) {\displaystyle v\in B_{\epsilon }(0)} , i.e.
Stein, Elias (1970), Singular Integrals and Differentiability Properties of Functions, Princeton University Press.
For A ∈ A {\displaystyle A\in {\mathcal {A}}} let Γ ( A ) {\displaystyle \Gamma (A)} denote the neighbours of A {\displaystyle A} in the dependency graph (In the dependency graph, event A {\displaystyle A} is not adjacent to events which are mutually independent).
This article incorporates material from Schwarz lemma on PlanetMath, which is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License.
Here, the term "tail" means those terms in the sequence that are not among the N largest terms, for an arbitrary natural number N.
In probability theory, Slepian's lemma (1962), named after David Slepian, is a Gaussian comparison inequality.
In set theory, a branch of mathematics, the condensation lemma is a result about sets in the constructible universe.
Besides the thick-thin decomposition some other applications are: The collar lemma: this is a more precise version of the description of the compact components of the thin parts.
have zero covariance; see uncorrelatedness), we have the converse of the piling up lemma: if it does not hold, the variables are not independent (uncorrelated).
{\displaystyle V.} This, together with the above properties of this form, implies that a ( ⋅ , ⋅ ) {\displaystyle a(\cdot ,\cdot )} is an inner product on V .
The Morse–Palais lemma was originally proved in the finite-dimensional case by the American mathematician Marston Morse, using the Gram–Schmidt orthogonalization process.
Because the two propositional variables occurring in P ∨ ¬ R {\displaystyle P\lor \lnot R} occur in both φ {\displaystyle \varphi } and ψ {\displaystyle \psi } , this means that P ∨ ¬ R {\displaystyle P\lor \lnot R} is an interpolant for the implication φ → ψ {\displaystyle \varphi \to \psi } .
{\displaystyle V.} The resulting norm ‖ v ‖ a = a ( v , v ) {\displaystyle \|v\|_{a}={\sqrt {a(v,v)}}} is called the energy norm, since it corresponds to a physical energy in many problems.
It is often useful to repeat zero times, which removes v {\displaystyle v} and x {\displaystyle x} from the string (this is "pumping down").
Baraniuk, Richard; Davenport, Mark; DeVore, Ronald; Wakin, Michael (2008), "A simple proof of the restricted isometry property for random matrices", Constructive Approximation, 28 (3): 253–263, doi:10.1007/s00365-007-9003-x, hdl:1911/21683, MR 2453366, S2CID 15911073.
Then there exists a prime ideal P {\displaystyle P} satisfying I ⊆ P {\displaystyle I\subseteq P} and P ∩ M = ∅ {\displaystyle P\cap M=\varnothing } .
For that end, consider the set P = { f : X ′ → U ∣ X ′ ⊂ X , f ( S ) ∈ S for each S ∈ X ′ } {\displaystyle P=\{f:X'\to U\mid X'\subset X,f(S)\in S{\text{ for each }}S\in X'\}} .
{\displaystyle v(a)=v(b)=0.} The inner product on this space is ( v , w ) = ∫ a b ( v ( x ) w ( w ) + v ′ ( x ) w ′ ( x ) ) d x {\displaystyle (v,w)=\int _{a}^{b}\!\left(v(x)w(w)+v'(x)w'(x)\right)\,dx} for all v {\displaystyle v} and w {\displaystyle w} in V .
In the original proof by Aubin, the spaces X0 and X1 in the statement of the lemma were assumed to be reflexive, but this assumption was removed by Simon, so the result is also referred to as the Aubin–Lions–Simon lemma.
The basic idea behind the proof is that we will approximate g ( t ) {\displaystyle g(t)} by finitely many terms of its Taylor series.
The free monoid of strings and string concatenation has this property (by Levi's lemma for strings), but by itself equidivisibility is not enough to guarantee that a monoid is free.
Since the statement is local, assume N = R n {\displaystyle N=\mathbb {R} ^{n}} and ∂ i {\displaystyle \partial _{i}} the coordinate vector fields on R n {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} ^{n}} .
The result gives information on the asymptotic distribution of a statistic φ(Zε) of a family of random variables Zε as ε becomes small in terms of a rate function for the variables.
If it is locally finite, it meets the conditions of the lemma and has a ray, and if it is not locally finite then it has an infinite-degree vertex.
In mathematics, more specifically in group theory, a group is said to be perfect if it equals its own commutator subgroup, or equivalently, if the group has no non-trivial abelian quotients.
{\displaystyle M.} Therefore, the rank of the γ {\displaystyle \gamma } th homology group, that is, the Betti number b γ ( M ) {\displaystyle b_{\gamma }(M)} , is less than or equal to the number of critical points of index γ {\displaystyle \gamma } of a Morse function on M .
{\displaystyle b\in B.} Any such function is called a Urysohn function for A {\displaystyle A} and B .
None of these shattered sets contain x {\displaystyle x} , since a set that contains x {\displaystyle x} cannot be shattered by a family in which all sets contain x {\displaystyle x} or all sets do not contain x {\displaystyle x} .
More specifically, the J {\displaystyle \ \mathbf {J} \ } above only consisted of external "source" terms introduced into Maxwell's equations.
Therefore, for any f ∈ [ H 0 1 ( Ω ) ] ′ {\displaystyle f\in [H_{0}^{1}(\Omega )]'} , there is a unique solution u ∈ V {\displaystyle u\in V} of Poisson's equation and we have the estimate ‖ ∇ u ‖ ≤ ‖ f ‖ [ H 0 1 ( Ω ) ] ′ .
{\displaystyle f-g\in IR[X].} If h ∈ R [ X ] , {\displaystyle h\in R[X],} a factorization of h modulo I consists in two (or more) polynomials f, g in R [ X ] {\displaystyle R[X]} such that h ≡ f g ( mod I ) .
Over Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, the Teichmüller–Tukey lemma is equivalent to the axiom of choice, and therefore to the well-ordering theorem, Zorn's lemma, and the Hausdorff maximal principle.
Now let us calculate the scalar product ⟨ T v exp p ⁡ ( v ) , T v exp p ⁡ ( w ) ⟩ {\displaystyle \langle T_{v}\exp _{p}(v),T_{v}\exp _{p}(w)\rangle } .
The lemma plays an important role in the conditional expectation in probability theory, where it allows replacement of the conditioning on a random variable by conditioning on the σ {\displaystyle \sigma } -algebra that is generated by the random variable.
The existence of these polynomials was proven by Axel Thue; Thue's proof used what would be translated from German as Dirichlet's Drawers principle, which is widely known as the Pigeonhole principle.
A simple corollary of the second statement is that every complex irreducible representation of an abelian group is one-dimensional.
Additionally, for odd values of r {\displaystyle r} , the number of edges must be divisible by r {\displaystyle r} .
In other words, w m {\displaystyle w_{m}} is in the span of { u 1 , … , u m , w m + 1 , … , w n } {\displaystyle \{u_{1},\ldots ,u_{m},w_{m+1},\ldots ,w_{n}\}} .
However it can also be used to suggest particular test-statistics that might be of interest or to suggest simplified tests — for this, one considers algebraic manipulation of the ratio to see if there are key statistics in it related to the size of the ratio (i.e.
It may be the case that V has a subspace, W, such that for every element g of G, the invertible linear map ρ(g) preserves or fixes W, so that (ρ(g))(w) is in W for every w in W, and (ρ(g))(v) is not in W for any v not in W.
Riesz's theorem (named after Frigyes Riesz) is an important theorem in functional analysis that states that a Hausdorff topological vector space (TVS) is finite-dimensional if and only if it is locally compact.
The statement of the law in terms of random variables is obtained from the latter by taking each F n {\displaystyle F_{n}} to be the σ-algebra generated by the random variable X n {\displaystyle X_{n}} .
In the mathematics of paper folding, the big-little-big lemma is a necessary condition for a crease pattern with specified mountain folds and valley folds to be able to be folded flat.
Additionally, this yields the estimate ‖ u ‖ ≤ 1 c ‖ f ‖ , {\displaystyle \|u\|\leq {\frac {1}{c}}\|f\|,} where c {\displaystyle c} is the minimal real part of an eigenvalue of A {\displaystyle A} .
Also let S ∩ T be the intersection of the languages of the two theories; the signature of S ∩ T is the intersection of the signatures of the two languages.
infinite sequences of words w 1 , w 2 , w 3 , … ∈ Σ ∗ {\displaystyle w_{1},w_{2},w_{3},\ldots \in \Sigma ^{*}} such that no w i {\displaystyle w_{i}} embeds into a later w j {\displaystyle w_{j}} .
Thus, for any set S of P-smooth numbers, there is a finite subset of S such that every element of S is divisible by one of the numbers in this subset.
That is, we have one of five possibilities for vwx: v w x = a j {\displaystyle vwx=a^{j}} for some j ≤ p {\displaystyle j\leq p} .
It is related to Gordan's lemma in that it shows that the set of these matrices is generated by a finite set of integral matrices.
We need to show that the inequality holds for any subset of A {\displaystyle {\mathcal {A}}} of a certain cardinality given that it holds for all subsets of a lower cardinality.
In many cases, a lemma derives its importance from the theorem it aims to prove; however, a lemma can also turn out to be more important than originally thought.
Proof In general, for any finite group G of order n, it is straightforward to determine the signature of the permutation πg made by left-multiplication by the element g of G.
Further, continuity is independent of openness and closedness in the general case and a continuous function may have one, both, or neither property; this fact remains true even if one restricts oneself to metric spaces.
As an immediate consequence, we see that the endomorphism ring of every finite-length indecomposable module is local.
Then there exists an open set Ω such that: (1) Ω is a disjoint union of open cubes, Ω = ∪k Qk, such that for each Qk, α ≤ 1 m ( Q k ) ∫ Q k | f ( x ) | d x ≤ 2 d α .
Since B 0 {\displaystyle B_{0}} is a finitely generated A {\displaystyle A} -algebra, also B {\displaystyle B} is a finitely generated A {\displaystyle A} -algebra.
This is similar to classical numerical analysis, where, for example, the error of linear interpolation u {\displaystyle \textstyle u} can be bounded using the second derivative of u {\displaystyle \textstyle u} .
The result is often called the Steinitz–Mac Lane exchange lemma, also recognizing the generalization by Saunders Mac Lane of Steinitz's lemma to matroids.
Their isolation lemma chooses a random number of random hyperplanes, and has the property that, with non-negligible probability, the intersection of any fixed non-empty solution space with the chosen hyperplanes contains exactly one element.
Their proof used Papakyriakopoulos' tower construction, but with double covers, as follows: Step 1: Repeatedly take a connected double cover of a regular neighborhood of the image of the disk to produce a tower of spaces, each a connected double cover of the one below it.
Then the number of triples ( x , y , z ) ∈ X × Y × Z {\displaystyle (x,y,z)\in X\times Y\times Z} such that x , y , z {\displaystyle x,y,z} form a triangle in G {\displaystyle G} is at least ( 1 − 2 ϵ ) ( d X Y − ϵ ) ( d X Z − ϵ ) ( d Y Z − ϵ ) | X | | Y | | Z | .
In algebra, Quillen's lemma states that an endomorphism of a simple module over the enveloping algebra of a finite-dimensional Lie algebra over a field k is algebraic over k.
If 𝜏 is any other locally convex Hausdorff topological vector space topology on X, then we say that 𝜏 is compatible with duality between X and Y if when X is equipped with 𝜏, then it has Y as its continuous dual space.
Newman's lemma: If an abstract rewriting system is terminating and locally confluent, then it is confluent.
There exists a constant bN depending only on the dimension N with the following property: Given any Besicovitch cover F of a bounded set E, there is a subcollection G of F such that G is a cover of the set E and every point x ∈ E belongs to at most bN different balls from the subcover G.
Technically, the Morse functions form an open, dense subset of all smooth functions M → R {\displaystyle M\to \mathbb {R} } in the C 2 {\displaystyle C^{2}} topology.
The continuity of the normal function implies the class of fixed points is closed (the supremum of any subset of the class of fixed points is again a fixed point).
Generalizations Renyi–Lamperti lemma The assumption of independence in the second lemma can be relaxed.
External links "Urysohn lemma", Encyclopedia of Mathematics, EMS Press, 2001 [1994] Mizar system proof: https://www.mizar.org/version/current/html/urysohn3.html#T20
Gauss's Lemma states: Let v , w ∈ B ϵ ( 0 ) ⊂ T v T p M ≅ T p M {\displaystyle v,w\in B_{\epsilon }(0)\subset T_{v}T_{p}M\cong T_{p}M} and M ∋ q := exp p ⁡ ( v ) {\displaystyle M\ni q:=\exp _{p}(v)} .
{\displaystyle \limsup _{\varepsilon \to 0}{\big (}\varepsilon \log \mathbf {E} {\big [}\exp {\big (}\gamma \phi (Z_{\varepsilon })/\varepsilon {\big )}{\big ]}{\big )}<\infty .} Then lim ε → 0 ε log ⁡ E [ exp ⁡ ( ϕ ( Z ε ) / ε ) ] = sup x ∈ X ( ϕ ( x ) − I ( x ) ) .
In mathematics, Heegner's lemma is a lemma used by Kurt Heegner in his paper on the class number problem.
Now apply a permutation V which swaps any pairs in which the upper member was originally a lower member: Finally, apply a permutation W which gets back the original matrix: We have W−1 = VU.
Note that we have essentially proved Pr ( A ¯ ∣ ⋀ B ∈ S B ¯ ) ≥ 1 − x ( A ) {\displaystyle \Pr \left({\overline {A}}\mid \bigwedge _{B\in S}{\overline {B}}\right)\geq 1-x(A)} .
Formulation in the language of modules Theorem: Let M , N {\displaystyle M,N} be two simple modules over a ring R {\displaystyle R} .
In computational geometry, they have been applied to range searching, derandomization, and approximation algorithms.
The main difference is that in WalkSAT, after the unsatisfied clause C is selected, a single variable in C is selected at random and has its value flipped (which can be viewed as selecting uniformly among only k {\displaystyle k} rather than all 2 k {\displaystyle 2^{k}} value assignments to C).
In this case, the claim holds because there are no vectors u i {\displaystyle u_{i}} , and the set { w 1 , … , w n } {\displaystyle \{w_{1},\dotsc ,w_{n}\}} spans V {\displaystyle V} by hypothesis.
{\displaystyle f(B)\subseteq \{1\}.} This step requires the V ( r ) {\displaystyle V(r)} sets in order to work.
If sup A {\displaystyle \sup A} is a limit ordinal then the equality follows from the continuous property of f {\displaystyle f} .
In 1945 Paul Erdős improved the upper bound for d = 1 to ( n ⌊ n / 2 ⌋ ) ≈ 2 n 1 n {\displaystyle {n \choose \lfloor {n/2}\rfloor }\approx 2^{n}\,{\frac {1}{\sqrt {n}}}} using Sperner's theorem.
If the function α is non-negative, then it suffices to insert these results into Claim 1 to derive the above variant of Grönwall's inequality for the function u.
Statement Let U {\displaystyle U} and W {\displaystyle W} be finite subsets of a vector space V {\displaystyle V} .
{\displaystyle \Delta \delta T=\epsilon {\mathcal {L}}_{\xi }T_{0}.} The only three possible ways this can be satisfied are those of the lemma.
The Mackey–Arens theorem is an important theorem in functional analysis that characterizes those locally convex vector topologies that have some given space of linear functionals as their continuous dual space.
Riesz's "rising sun" lemma", Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society, 133 (5): 1437–1440, doi:10.1090/S0002-9939-04-07653-1 Riesz, Frédéric (1932), "Sur un Théorème de Maximum de Mm.
History The lemma was not published by Adolf Lindenbaum; it is originally attributed to him by Alfred Tarski.
In particular, a complete finite-volume hyperbolic manifold is always diffeomorphic to the interior of a compact manifold (possibly with empty boundary).
So, by dominated convergence, we have the analogous identity lim R → ∞ 1 2 R ∫ − R R ν ^ ( ξ ) d ξ = ν ( { 0 } ) .
See also Chaotic systems Butterfly effect References External links Shadowing Theorem on Scholarpedia Can a butterfly in Brazil control the climate of Texas?
A non-trivial finite perfect group that is not simple must then be an extension of at least one smaller simple non-abelian group.
The existential version of the Local Lemma permits a larger upper bound on dependencies: | Γ ( A ) | < 2 n e , {\displaystyle |\Gamma (A)|<{\frac {2^{n}}{e}},} This bound is known to be tight.
Scholars have applied the tetralemma to issues such as family-business tensions, organisational purpose, and governance, where competing rationalities often cannot be adequately addressed through either–or reasoning.
Practice In practice, the ⁠ X {\displaystyle X} ⁠s are approximations to the S-boxes (substitution components) of block ciphers.
Suppose that ℓ ( v ) = 0 {\displaystyle \textstyle \ell \left(v\right)=0} for all v ∈ P m − 1 {\displaystyle \textstyle v\in P_{m-1}} .
Let r 1 , … , r n {\displaystyle r_{1},\ldots ,r_{n}} be selected uniformly at random from S {\displaystyle S} .
By the use of Finsler's lemma, it is possible to derive a sufficient condition for universal stabilizability in terms of a differential linear matrix inequality.
Moreover, consider a polynomial g = ∏ i ∈ I ( X − α i ) {\displaystyle g=\prod _{i\in I}(X-\alpha _{i})} with coefficients and roots in K.
By the induction assumption, these two subfamilies shatter two collections of sets whose sizes add to at least | F | {\displaystyle |{\mathcal {F}}|} .
In general, a ring R is a Jacobson ring if and only if every finitely generated R-algebra that is a field is finite over R.
The two pairs of small Bézout's coefficients are obtained from the given one (x, y) by choosing for k in the above formula either of the two integers next to ⁠x/b/d⁠.
{\displaystyle f(x):={\frac {1}{n}}\sum _{i=1}^{n}d(x,C_{i}).} Since f {\displaystyle f} is continuous on a compact set, it attains a minimum δ {\displaystyle \delta } .
It is easy to check that P {\displaystyle P} is indeed a projection onto V {\displaystyle V} and that ‖ P ‖ ≤ n {\displaystyle \|P\|\leq n} (this follows from the triangle inequality).
In that case, the lemma constructs an isotopy from the fiber f − 1 ( a ) {\displaystyle f^{-1}(a)} to f − 1 ( b ) {\displaystyle f^{-1}(b)} ; whence the name "isotopy lemma".
Statement of the lemma Let X be a regular topological space; let (Zε)ε>0 be a family of random variables taking values in X; let με be the law (probability measure) of Zε.
In mathematics, Fatou's lemma establishes an inequality relating the Lebesgue integral of the limit inferior of a sequence of functions to the limit inferior of integrals of these functions.
167–190, doi:10.1515/9781400882182-010, ISBN 9781400882182, MR 0067317, Zbl 0058.08703 {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) External links MathWorld page on Lax–Milgram theorem
In 2008, Sergey Bereg, Adrian Dumitrescu, and Minghui Jiang established new bounds for various F(X) and f(X) that improve upon earlier results of R.
We separate w {\displaystyle w} into a component w T {\displaystyle w_{T}} parallel to v {\displaystyle v} and a component w N {\displaystyle w_{N}} normal to v {\displaystyle v} .
Statement of the lemma Suppose Ω {\displaystyle \textstyle \Omega } is a bounded domain in R n {\displaystyle \textstyle \mathbb {R} ^{n}} , n ≥ 1 {\displaystyle \textstyle n\geq 1} , with boundary ∂ Ω {\displaystyle \textstyle \partial \Omega } and diameter d {\displaystyle \textstyle d} .
Proof We will focus on the one-dimensional case n = 1 {\displaystyle n=1} , the proof in higher dimensions is similar.
Extensions The effective version of the lemma's statement, "every consistent computably enumerable theory can be extended to a complete consistent computably enumerable theory," fails (provided Peano arithmetic is consistent) by Gödel's incompleteness theorem.
For example, starting with an equation xα = yβ where x and y are the unknowns, we can transform it (assuming |x| ≥ |y|, so there exists t such that x=yt) to ytα = yβ, thus to tα = β.
Remarks If f is continuous on the semicircular contour CR for all large R and then by Jordan's lemma lim R → ∞ ∫ C R f ( z ) d z = 0.
The 11n different events we want to avoid correspond to the 11n pairs of adjacent points on the circle.
If R = Z {\displaystyle R=\mathbb {Z} } , then it says a rational root of a monic polynomial over integers is an integer (cf.
This can be verified by noting that conditions 2 and 3 together with closure under finite intersections imply closure under finite unions, which in turn implies closure under countable unions.
The exponential map is a mapping from the tangent space at p to M: e x p : T p M → M {\displaystyle \mathrm {exp} :T_{p}M\to M} which is a diffeomorphism in a neighborhood of zero.
(1957b), "On Dehn's Lemma and the Asphericity of Knots", Annals of Mathematics, 66 (1): 1–26, doi:10.2307/1970113, JSTOR 1970113, MR 0090053 Rubinstein, J.H.
Because the set of norm-1 points make up a convex symmetric body in V {\displaystyle V} , there exists a hyperplane P n {\displaystyle P_{n}} supporting V {\displaystyle V} at e n {\displaystyle e_{n}} .
The 2022 Hulu series Under the Banner of Heaven (set in the 1980s) depicted the throat-slicing gesture of the pre-1990 LDS endowment ceremony.
Illness and death In his final years, Andrianov developed the degenerative neurological disorder multiple system atrophy and in his final months was unable to move his arms or legs or talk.
William Barlow made mischief by suggesting Parsons in any case was second fiddle to Robert Bellarmine.
The fable in the arts Jean Restout made a painting of La Fontaine's fable for the Hôtel de Soubise in 1738.
The voter's oath or affirmation, formerly the freemen's oath, is a citizen's oath or affirmation taken during voter registration in the U.S.
(A) Aham-pi: "Ārogyaparamā lābhā" ti maṭṭāmi, Tathāgataṁ upaṭṭhātukāmomhi, tasmāhaṁ mayhaṁ vejjakammena ārogyabhāvaṁ vaḍḍhemi ceva gilānaṁ hitāya dayena anukampāya upaṭṭhahāmi.
The vows are regarded as the individual's free response to a call by God to follow Jesus Christ more closely under the action of the Holy Spirit in a particular form of religious living.
lupaan ja vakuutan kaikkivaltiaan ja kaikkitietävän Jumalan edessä (vakuutuksessa: kunniani ja omantuntoni kautta), olevani Suomen valtakunnan luotettava ja uskollinen kansalainen.
Amrik "Mik" Basi MBE (born 21 May 1966 in Forest Gate in east London) is a British boxing referee based at Fairbairn Boxing Club in Manor Park in the London Borough of Newham.
The islanders were angered by the increasingly harsh imperialism of Athens and attempted to take advantage of the defeat of Athens in the Battle of Coronea in neighbouring Boeotia (c.
For example, Sir Thomas More opposed the King's separation from the Roman Catholic Church in the English Reformation and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England, a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534.
Notes References External links Text of the False Oaths (Scotland) Act 1933 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
Connections Rituals involving the sacrifice of horses in a similar manner to the sea-god Poseidon Hippios are also attested, and might have influenced the horse-sacrificing rituals to Helios.
She participated in the 1968 Winter Olympics, placing fourteenth (tied) in the 1500 metres and seventeenth in the 3000 metres.
This was vowed to James before the battle by Ramiro I of Asturias in Calahorra, offering Saint James part of the booty taken from the Moors along with the first fruits and crops from each year's harvest as an ex voto.
Schweizer feels that as with the previous verse Jesus is countering the belief that swearing by things other than God is not equivalent to swearing by God.
This was largely aimed at the oligarchic wealthy who hoped to gain the assistance of Sparta or Persia in their revolts.
They met eight times in the finals of major international championships and Medved won on all occasions.
It is traditional for officers to recite the oath upon promotion but as long as the officer's service is continuous this is not required.
He is one of the most successful sailors at Olympic Games and one of the most successful Brazilian Olympic athletes, being one of only two to earn five medals along with fellow sailor Torben Grael, and only behind the six medals of Rebeca Andrade.
The brothers and sisters of the new and former grand dukes, with their respective spouses, as well as the entourages of His Majesty the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess, were also present at the event.
New citizens take an oath to that effect at the end of their naturalization process: The oath in Italian is: Giuro di essere fedele alla Repubblica e di osservare la Costituzione e le leggi dello Stato.
Kosciuszko stated the council was formed of "...virtuous citizens and friends of the people, and when I nominated them, I did not want to think about whether they are peasants, burghers or aristocrats.".
Release on recognizance is sometimes abbreviated as RoR, OR (own recognizance, particularly in the United States), or PR (personal recognizance).
TG Xers retired his number 9 jersey, a legacy inherited by its current successor team Wonju DB Promy.
It is certainly not open to this Court to rewrite the oath required by Los Angeles of its employees..." The lack of an explicit requirement for scienter in the law, he concluded, asked the employees "to swear to something they cannot be expected to know.
Section 1 of the act required all officers to take the oath required by the Oaths of Allegiance and Supremacy Act 1688 (1 Will.
These achievements won her fame and drew the attention of martial arts superstar Jackie Chan who sponsored her while promoting his film Shanghai Noon in the United Kingdom.
senators that are not President Pro Tempore of the Senate (last in 1969) 5 times, the speaker of the United States House of Representatives (last in 2005) 4 times, a U.S.
IOC 1984 Summer Olympics USA Gymnastics January 2007 selection of judges for the 2007 Elite season, including Weber.
Ogiwara's twin brother Tsugiharu competed with him at the 1995 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships in Thunder Bay, Ontario, sharing a gold with him in the 4 x 5 km team event.
After the death of President Paul von Hindenburg on 2 August, a referendum was passed on 19 August, with 88.1% voting to confirm the merger of the post of President with that of Chancellor, and Hitler became Führer und Reichskanzler.
On multiple occasions, the state attempted to revoke the Church's tax-free status in order to tap into its significant financial resources, with official declarations calling for formal surveys of the Church's wealth and subsequent taxations being levied in 1749 and 1780.
Because his weight and height exceeded the Optimist recommendations, he began sailing in the Snipe class, and was second at the 1989 Brazilian Snipe Junior Championship, and champion in 1990, 1991 and 1992.
For a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 5:35-36 Analysis Jesus quotes Isaiah 66:1 in the previous verse to tell his followers not to swear by Heaven.
During the campaign Cartier had fallen ill with Bright's disease, which may have been causing his judgment to lapse; he died in May 1873 while seeking treatment in London.
The Aufruf was printed in the Völkischer Beobachter, the Nazi party newspaper, on 18 August 1934, the day before a plebiscite to confirm the merger of the offices of President (the head of state), and Chancellor (the head of government), in the person of Adolf Hitler.
The people of Moguer greeted them happily; Columbus and his crew headed promptly to the Santa Clara Monastery to light a taper and spend the night in vigil, in fulfilment of one of their vows.
Before facing the Minotaur Theseus promised a thank offering to Apollo in rewards for favoring him during his quest.
The use of dull colors is to show the importance of the story behind the painting over the painting itself.
(2) The pledge of loyalty is to be in the following form: Under God, I pledge my loyalty to Australia and to the people of New South Wales.
Adoption of the pledge was a project of Myron Walwyn, the territory's Minister for Education and Culture.
The Halieia (Ancient Greek: Ἁλίεια, Halíeia) or Halia was one of the principal festivals celebrated on the island of Rhodes in honour of their patron god Helios, the Sun.
Some have interpreted the commandment to be against perjury, since invoking God's name in an oath was considered a guarantee of the truth of a statement or promise.
Trying to pass Swedish troops unexposed, he rode with only a small host from Silesia through Carpathian Mountains, finally reaching Lwów in March 1656.
See also List of multiple Olympic gold medalists References External links Zhang Yining world ranking record at the ITTF ITTF Stats for Zhang Yining
Jag skall ock med liv och blod försvara det Konungsliga väldet samt Riksdagens rättigheter; allt i överensstämmelse med Rikets Grundlagar, dem jag till alla delar skall lyda och efterkomma.
The Lwów Oath (Polish: Śluby lwowskie) was an oath made on April 1, 1656 by Polish king John II Casimir in the Latin Cathedral of the city of Lwów (today Lviv, western Ukraine).
The subject was addressed again in 1994, when the House of Commons Standing Committee on Citizenship and Immigration examined changes to the Citizenship Act.
The location of the declaration/attestation, and the words used, make no difference to the extent of the constable's jurisdiction.
In 1768 the Reverend James Webb was tried in the Court of King's Bench for saying Mass but was acquitted, the Chief Justice, Lord Mansfield, ruling that there was no evidence sufficient to convict.
She uses a specially made Zhang Yining ZLC for her blade made by butterfly, and tenergy 05 for forehand and tenergy 64 for her backhand.
Autocratic and overbearing, he commanded rather than persuaded, and since he became attorney-general in 1783, his influence in Irish government was immense.
An affirmation has exactly the same legal effect as an oath but is usually taken to avoid the religious implications of an oath; it is thus legally binding but not considered a religious oath.
They may be activated in the service of their state in time of local or state emergency in addition to federal activation.
In Virgil he is the grandfather of Latinus, the son of Sol's daughter Circe who lived not far from Rome at Monte Circeo.
The vice president's swearing-in ceremony also moved that year, from the Senate chamber inside the Capitol, to the presidential inaugural platform outside the building.
In comparison to the older oath, the younger text shows that the Hittite pantheon was increasingly influenced by Hurrian gods.
October Equus), the Halieia also included a ritual, that took place on the 24th day of the summer month of Gorpiaeus, where the Rhodians sacrificed to the god a team of four white horses, by driving a four-horse chariot, representing the chariot of the sun, into the sea.
The oath sworn to Hitler by members of the Schutzstaffel (SS) predated that of the 1934 Wehrmacht oath and may have served as an inspiration or model for it.
Voreadis has, from time to time, given interviews and made public statements criticizing both the shortcomings of Greek basketball and the actions of the Hellenic Basketball Federation.
Justice Thomas Au Hing-cheung said he would deliver his ruling "as soon as practicable" in the light of the possibility of the interpretation of the Basic Law by the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC).
In some common law nations, a recognizance is a conditional pledge of money made by a person before a court.
14) You should not tell what you have learned from the time you enter a woman's room, and, moreover, you should not have obscene or immoral feelings when examining a woman.
Tsuzaki took the Officials' Oath at the Opening Ceremony of the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan, becoming the first female water polo referee to be given the honour.
Lee Hak-Rae (born 1938) is a retired South Korean judoka and sport official best known for taking the Judge's Oath at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul.
In 2000, he was elected the first Chairman of the Laureus World Sports Academy, an international service organization of world-class athletes.
The Disney versions of the Titans also appear in various games in the Disney-Square Enix video game franchise Kingdom Hearts.
In modern law, covenant is described as "a promise or agreement under consideration, or guarantee between two parties" and is distinguished from modern contract by the seal or symbol of guarantee.
The Baljuna Covenant was an oath sworn in mid-1203 AD by Temüjin—the khan of the Mongol tribe and the future Genghis Khan—and a small group of companions, subsequently known as the Baljunatu.
When she stepped up to the podium, she took off her silver medal "in disgust" as a protest against the judges' decision; she was booed by the crowd.
I will apply, for the benefit of the sick, all measures [that] are required, avoiding those twin traps of overtreatment and therapeutic nihilism.
Should an offender not pay the fine or give security, they were to be imprisoned in the house of correction for ten days of hard labour; if a soldier or seaman, they were to be set in the stocks for an hour (or for two hours, for multiple offences).
78, sometimes called the Unlawful Oaths (Ireland) Act 1844, the Unlawful Oaths Continuance Act, or the Unlawful Oaths Act.
At a meeting in the Cabinet Room, Chief Justice Harlan Stone, apparently mistaken about the meaning of Truman's middle initial (which is not an abbreviation but rather the whole middle name in itself), began reading the oath by saying "Do you, Harry Shipp Truman, ..." Truman responded: "I, Harry S.
As of 2013, Zakharov's best performance at the World Championships came in 2008, when placed 8th in the 1500 metres.
One interviewee revealed that the writers for the ITV police drama series The Bill had consciously and directly drawn on Medea in writing an episode for the series.
presidents are free to either swear or affirm the inaugural oath of office, only one president has chosen to affirm.
2002 – The Warsaw's Grand Theatre features a quadriga reflecting the original Antonio Corazzi's 1833 plans for the building, but not commissioned and executed until 2002.
Circuit Court, administered the oath to Millard Fillmore on July 10, 1850, when he became president after the death of Zachary Taylor.
In the 500 metres and 1000 metres, he placed fourth in his round one heat, failing to advance, and in the 1500 metres, he placed sixth, also failing to advance.
In these systems, when decisory oaths are allowed, they must be requested (or "referred") by the opposing party; having requested the oath, the requesting party is bound by it and is not permitted to present any proof that it is false.
Having done this, the electronically submitted return is considered to have the same legal effect as if the taxpayer had actually and physically signed the return.
Since 1990, the autonomous political party of the Lega Nord has annually organized a meeting at Pontida that celebrates the eponymous medieval oath.
High school Born in Cairo, Georgia, Edwards attended Cairo High School, where she was a four-year starter.
A jurat (short for Latin juratum (est), "it has been sworn", 3rd singular perfect passive of jurare, "to swear") is a clause at the foot of an affidavit showing when, where, and before whom the actual oath was sworn or affirmation was made.
A person without the ability to pay court costs, also known as "being indigent", has the option to swear a pauper's oath to file a lawsuit without paying filing fees.
Keiichi Suzuki (鈴木 惠一, Suzuki Keiichi; 10 November 1942 – 21 January 2025) was a Japanese speed skater.
Today swearing in public is often dealt with by the police and courts under section 5 of the Public Order Act 1986.
During a derby game between Olympiakos and Panathinaikos in the Greek Basketball League game in 2002, he was struck by a projectile thrown by an Olympiakos fan and was comforted by colleague Nikos Papadimitriou.
In the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Yamagata was part of the 4 × 100 m relay team for Japan, which took the silver medal in the final.
Members of the judiciary (justices of the peace, district judges, circuit judges etc.) swear their allegiance to the king and his heirs and successors; police officers in England and Wales pledge their allegiance to the king, but not his heirs and successors.
After the walkout, as pro-Beijing lawmakers met the media, explaining the rationale behind their action, radical democrat legislator "Long Hair" Leung Kwok-hung of the League of Social Democrats (LSD) threw luncheon meat at them in protest.
Until the early twentieth century all official state commissions and certificates were headed by the words "BY THE FREEMEN OF VERMONT." Freemen's Oath The original oath read as follows: § 42.
The statement followed similar public statements by others such as writers and poets (the Gelöbnis treuester Gefolgschaft in October 1933) and university professors (the Bekenntnis der deutschen Professoren zu Adolf Hitler, in November 1933).
Most of these writings, however, argue the event in a rather vague way, without describing the details: neither the locations nor the precise dates of the signing of the pacts are mentioned.
Contents The constitution advanced the imperial pretensions in the city of Rome, but also established a system to check the power of the nobles.
In popular culture Geas, geis and derivative words and concepts have appeared in a variety of forms in popular culture.
Together they won the bronze medal at the 1948 Winter Olympics and the 1948 World Figure Skating Championships.
Competing in four Summer Olympics, he earned three bronze medals (Individual épée: 1928, Team foil: 1932, Team épée: 1932) A native of Boston, Massachusetts, Calnan did not start fencing until he was a student at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.
We will respect and protect the dignity of each person, And stand up for justice We sincerely declare that we shall uphold the rights and values of our Constitution And promise to act in accordance with the duties and responsibilities that flow from these rights.
Subsequent developments The whole act by section 7(1) of, and part I of the schedule to, the Oaths Act 1978, which consolidated the act.
Upon Andrew's request, Pope Gregory IX allowed the investigation of the separation of non-Christians to take place once every two years.
The Skira is the setting for Aristophanes' comedy Ecclesiazusae (393 BCE), in which the women seize the opportunity afforded by the festival, to hatch their plot to overthrow male domination.
From at least December 2020, the sculpture was behind a security fence and the fountain was not operating.
He competed at the 1964, 1968, and 1972 Winter Olympics in the 500 m and 1500 m events with his best result being fifth place in the 500 m in 1964.
The first tablet is only preserved in fragments (KBo XXI 10, KUB XL 13, and minor fragments), the second tablet survives in three copies, and can be restituted almost completely.
Promise: A commitment made by a witness under the age of 17, or of all witnesses if none of the accused are over the age of 17.
Son Mi-na (Korean: 손미나; born October 8, 1964) is a South Korean team handball player and Olympic champion.
Early life Billingsley was born to James and Wenonah (Willing) Billingsley in Erie, Pennsylvania, on December 2, 1926.
It also prohibited Catholics under 21 from going abroad without licence, to help enforce the prohibition in the Education Act 1695 (7 Will.
Eligibility reforms In 1979 Moses took a leave of absence from his job with General Dynamics to devote himself to running full-time.
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the schedule to, the Promissory Oaths Act 1871 (34 & 35 Vict.
In the case of an electronically filed tax return, the taxpayer has to provide certain specific information—a social security number for example—to "sign" the jurat.
She is one of the daughters of Erechtheus, one of the Hyacinthides who sacrificed herself to save the city.
Competing in two Winter Olympics, his best finish was 15th in the Nordic combined event at Chamonix in 1924.
Ono was the flag bearer for Japan at the 1960 Olympics, and took the Olympic Oath at the 1964 Games.
He has a rivalry with speed skater Shani Davis, who has been faster in all four 1000 m races in the 2009–10 season.
The Poor Clares constitute the second branch of the Order of Friars Minor, founded in the thirteenth century by Clare of Assisi under the inspiration of Francis of Assisi.
Hilary of Poitiers: Otherwise; They who live in the simplicity of the faith have not need to swear, with them ever, what is is, what is not is not; by this their life and their conversation are ever preserved in truth.
Almost eighty years later, in the wake of the Second World War, Emperor Shōwa paid homage to the Oath and reaffirmed it as the basis of "national polity" in his Imperial Rescript on National Revitalization.
He also won a gold medal as a member of the Russian relay team at the 2013 European Championships, and placed 3rd in the overall competition at the 2011 European Championships.
The Novum Testamentum Graece text is: ἔστω δὲ ὁ λόγος ὑμῶν ναὶ ναί, οὒ οὔ τὸ δὲ περισσὸν τούτων ἐκ τοῦ πονηροῦ ἐστιν.
A breach of the oath can also be seen as an act punishable by the denial of the offender's ability to sit in the House of Commons.
Tamata are usually small metal plaques, which may be of base or precious metal, usually with an embossed image symbolizing the subject of prayer for which the plaque is offered.
In Roman Catholicism, a declaration of faith may be used in various circumstances, both for purpose of conversion and of reaffirmation.
The text, states Arnold, contains many verses relating to women's sexual health, suggesting "great antiquity of certain methods and therapeutic agents used in the treatment of gynecological cases", for example, the cautery, pessaries, and astringent washes.
While he would emphasize that the outcome of the debate would encourage some of the actions that Adolf Hitler would take, these were most likely to draw away from the Conservative Party's support of Neville Chamberlain's acts of appeasement.
The team won their opening round games fairly easily, with the closest of the first three games a 27-point victory over Czechoslovakia.
He wrote: "To find scienter implied in a criminal statute is the obvious way of reading such a statute, for guilty knowledge is the normal ingredient of criminal responsibility.
The act was the culmination of a campaign by the noted atheist and secularist MP Charles Bradlaugh to take his seat.
In the customary law of Nigeria, a person may swear a juju oath calling for themselves to be struck dead within the year if they are speaking falsely.
The Atlantic points out that many non-incumbent candidates are unable to attract corporate donations, so making the pledge is mostly symbolic.
After publication of the 1917 Code, many institutes with simple vows appealed to the Holy See for permission to make solemn vows.
In these situations the oath of office was administered to the new president as quickly as possible, as doing so allowed the presidency to continue uninterrupted.
He compares it to Strabo's reference to a nameless god of the Celtiberians, and Lucan's poetic description in the Pharsalia of Gauls dreading gods whom they do not know.
References External links DatabaseOlympics.com profile IOC 1972 Summer Olympics Wallechinsky, David (1984).
Susan Du reported the injury occurred while Bonaly was practicing her backflip, although there were other reports that the injury occurred during an exhibition performance.
The weights of intact arm and neck rings are always multiples of mercantile units, further supporting their usage as a form of wearable currency.
Guillaume V, Grand Duke of Luxembourg On 8 October 2024, as had been announced by Grand Duke Henri on his Official Birthday that year, Guillaume was appointed as lieutenant representative (regent).
International competitions Sources 1968 athletics marathon men's results 1968 Men's marathon results (in French) IOC 1968 Summer Olympics Pablo Garrido's profile at Sports Reference.com == References ==
Avenger of two free peoples, I had only one regret, that the same blow could not strike the head of all tyrants.Finally, there were Father François-Toussaint Villers, deputy from Loire-Inférieure, and Father Claude-Alexandre Ysabeau, deputy from Indre-et-Loire.
It established a single uniform oath to be taken by future monarchs at their coronation, and also established that this oath was to be taken by William III and Mary II when they were crowned.
Section one to end of subsection (1) and the schedules to the act was repealed by section 1 of, and schedule 1 to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1883 (46 & 47 Vict.
References Aachen information on Schüller Heidi Schüller at IMDb IOC 1972 Summer Olympics Wallechinsky, David (1984).
Rechelle Margaret Hawkes (born 30 May 1967 in Albany, Western Australia) is an Australian former field hockey player.
See also Flag of South Korea Korean ethnic nationalism March of the Volunteers, National Flag Anthem of the Republic of China - 民族 is included in the lyrics Oath of allegiance == References ==
On another note, this gold would have represented for the city of Athens more than a year's salary for 10,000 skilled workers, more than a year's pay for 10,000 hoplites or 10,000 rowers in the war fleet.
The Black Oath was a 1639 oath that Scots in Ulster who were over the age of 16 were required to take under penalty of a fine or imprisonment.
Pollay took the Judge's Oath at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, the first for an official in the Summer Olympics to do so.
Ryota Yamagata (山縣 亮太, Yamagata Ryōta; born 10 June 1992) is a Japanese sprinter holding the Japanese record of 9.95 in the 100m.
Opposition party the Freedom Front Plus describing the pledge as an attempt by the African National Congress to instill a "permanent guilty complex" in schoolchildren.
When the festival on 25 December was instituted is not clear, which makes it hard to assess what impact (if any) it had on the establishment of Christmas.
Romano Torriani played for EHC Basel and HC Davos, and Marco played for EHC Basel and SC Langnau Tigers, and later became president of Genève-Servette HC.
Unlawful Oaths Acts may be a generic name either for legislation bearing that short title or for all legislation which relates to the unlawful oaths.
The corresponding affirmation is: Yr wyf i, yn datgan ac yn cadarnhau yn ddifrifol, yn ddiffuant ac yn ddidwyll y byddaf yn ffyddlon ac yn wir deyrngar i'w Fawrhydi y Brenin Siarl, ei etifeddion a'i olynwyr, yn ôl y gyfraith.
"Osservazioni sulla Constitutio Romana e sull Sacramentum Cleri et Populi Romani dell'anno 824." Studi medievali in onore di Antonino de Stefano.
The Netherlands Another famous abjuration was brought about by the Plakkaat van Verlatinghe of July 26, 1581, the formal Act of Abjuration or declaration of independence of the Low Countries from the Spanish king, Philip II.
Second, Black believed that the majority's decision in Garner significantly weakened the Court's holdings in Ex parte Garland, Cummings v.
With this podium, he also became the first Brazilian athlete to win a medal in four consecutive Olympic Games.
c.10 Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866 Promissory Oaths Act 1871, Schedule 1 Part 1 Secondary Everett, Michael; Nash, Danielle (26 February 2016).
In the gospels, the women are described as coming to the empty tomb "εις μια των σαββατων", which literally means "toward the first of the sabbath" and is often translated "on the first day of the week".
Notes References External links Hansard, Introduction of the Oaths Bill, 23 March 1978 Hansard, Second Reading of the Oaths Bill, 11 April 1978 Hansard, Royal Assent to Oaths Bill, 30 June 1978
48) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that repealed for the United Kingdom enactments relating to promissory oaths from 1346 to 1867 which had ceased to be in force or had become unnecessary.
Along with similar celebrations, educational stationary was also distributed in Vadodara to the school children.
The Prime Minister of New Zealand Helen Clark argued that the coup should be resisted by citizens, pointing to the oath of allegiance: "You owe it to your oath of allegiance to the Fiji constitution to act to stop this act of mutiny," she said.
The battle had resulted from his refusal to pay the Tribute of 100 Damsels to the Emirate of Córdoba.
He is well known for his specialty throws, Uchi Mata (内股, inner thigh throw) and Ōuchi gari (大内刈, major inner reap).
Engravings by Chauveau Later productions 1655: Andromède was revived at the Théâtre du Marais with machinery and sets designed by Denis Buffequin.
Thank you for understanding." As a result of this judging error in particular, emphasis may be switching to having electronic scoring equipment contained within the actual body protectors themselves, and many tournaments are now using these in trial phase.
The complex at Har Senaim has been suggested to be a cult site or funerary garden and compared to the high places mentioned in the Books of Kings.
However, several places still resisted, most remarkably (and symbolically) the monastery at Jasna Góra (November 1655 to January 1656).
At the forefront of the oath, then, is the distillation of the core principle of the Glorious Revolution of 1688, namely an assertion of the constitutional supremacy of Parliament, a principle that remains the basis of public law in the United Kingdom.
Next to the Senate, at the southeastern corner stood the monumental Chalkē Gate, the entrance to the imperial palace precinct, while to the southwest stood the great Baths of Zeuxippus and the northern end of the Hippodrome.
Around six House Democrats that took the pledge used a shell PAC to obfuscate that they were receiving corporate PAC money.
Unlawful Oaths Act (with its variations) is a stock short title used for legislation in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland relating to unlawful oaths.
These may be represented either as flat, on the same plane as the circlet of the crown, or rising at right angles to it.
One of her trademarks was performing a series of alternating clockwise and counterclockwise single Axels.
32, sometimes called the Unlawful Oaths (Ireland) Act 1862, the Unlawful Oaths (Ireland) Act Continuance Act, the Unlawful Oaths Continuance Act, or the Unlawful Oaths Act.
The pledge was first publicly recited on 1 July 2016 at Territory Day celebrations by Premier Orlando Smith and members of the government.
A member of Real Club Náutico de Gran Canaria, Doreste became World champion in 1985 (Flying Dutchman), and again in 1995 (Soling).
In 2007, the law was amended to make it easier to administer this oath or affirmation; instead of being administered only by notaries public and similar officials, the oath may be administered by nearly anyone, including the applicant.
Years later, Blomberg admitted that he did not think through the full implications of the oath at the time.
Around 10 o'clock in the Old Town square in Kraków, the Act of Insurrection was read by Kraków's Sejm representative.
Bonaly came in fifth place at the 1990 Skate America, in third place at the 1990 Skate Electric, and won the gold medal at the 1990 Grand Prix International de Paris and at the 1990 Nebelhorn Trophy.
For a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 5:37 Analysis The exact meaning of this verse is much disputed.
The oath was required of all free men, and its renewal was regularly demanded by the king to demonstrate the aristocracy's adherence to his authority.
External links Linguistics Handbook Downloads – Audio samples of The North Wind and the Sun in various languages, from the International Phonetic Association.
For his ski jumping efforts, Falkanger was awarded the Holmenkollen medal in 1952 (Shared with Stein Eriksen, Heikki Hasu and Nils Karlsson.) Falkanger also took the Olympic Oath at the 1952 games in Oslo.
Custom Recitation of the Panatà is required by law at all public and private educational institutions.
He officiated the finals of the Saporta Cup and the Korać Cup in 2002, within 15 days of each other.
Macdonald relented and appointed a five-member committee to investigate the allegations the next day, with conservative member of the House of Commons for Cardwell John Hillyard Cameron appointed to chair the committee investigating the Pacific Scandal.
When Fianna Fáil was founded in 1926 by veterans of the losing anti-Treaty side in the Civil War, abolishing the oath was a core aim.
First, he was forced to swear never to harm Erwig's children when Erwig gave him his daughter in marriage.
A world champion in 2001, Stevenson won her country's first ever Olympic medal in taekwondo, a bronze, at the 2008 Games in Beijing, her third Olympic competition for Great Britain.
Original wording, 1791 The original Test taken by members of the Society of United Irishmen was written by the Belfast physician William Drennan.
He wished them also to reverse the Thirteenth Council's canon protecting Erwig's family, but the bishops refused, saying that that canon did not protect them from just penalties.
Ogiwara received the Holmenkollen medal in 1995, becoming the first non-European and first Asian to ever receive the honor.
McDermott's international career consisted exclusively of the 500 m at the Olympic Winter Games of 1960, 1964 and 1968.
The vow of enclosure is a religious vow made by some branches of the Poor Clares in addition to the three vows of obedience, poverty and chastity.
Carl-Otto Fast, founder of the Westrogothian School ("Västgötaskolan"), was a known Nazi who some claim collaborated with SS Ahnenerbe, Richard Walther Darré and eugenicists from Hadamar in Germany.
As a member of the band, We the Kings, Trippy has received Platinum record by Australian Recording Industry Association.
Mythology Mneseus, along with his nine siblings, became the heads of ten royal houses, each ruling a tenth portion of the island, according to a partition made by Poseidon himself, but all subject to the supreme dynasty of Atlas who was the eldest of the ten.
Mounds are typically constructed in layers, however the arch in this grave indicated that at some point the mound was disrupted.
In Greek mythology, Elasippus (Ancient Greek: Ἐλάσιππον means 'horse-riding, knightly') may refer to two personages: Elasippus, one of the ten sons of Poseidon and Cleito in Plato's myth of Atlantis.
He formerly was a commissioner of the British-Israel-World Federation in Victoria., and a YMCA representative for A.I.F., Australia.
Perhaps the best known alleged example is the Glastonbury Temple of the Stars, situated around Glastonbury in Somerset, England.
Petermanns Mitteilungen 43/44, 1897/98 Weltgeschichte des Krieges (Hannover 1903) Das Zeitalter des Sonnengottes.
The elaborate interpretive commentary on the law was written by three dominant figures in the racial hygiene movement: Ernst Rüdin, Arthur Gütt and the lawyer Falk Ruttke.
Fort expands in this book on his theory about the Super-Sargasso Sea – a place where earthly things supposedly materialize in order to rain down on Earth – as well as developing an idea that there are continents above the skies of Earth.
Its stated purpose is to defend "the cultural, ethnic, and racial interests of Western European peoples" and examine "contemporary political, social, and demographic trends that impact the posterity of Western Civilization".
Other projects The Occidental Quarterly also runs a news-related website, The Occidental Observer, launched in 2007 as an online companion to the Quarterly, as well as a book publishing company, The Occidental Press.
Stanford and Bradley's 2012 book Across Atlantic Ice: The Origin of America's Clovis Culture expands upon and revises earlier formulations of the Solutrean Hypothesis.
594 BC) was an Egyptian priest, who is mentioned in Greek writings for relating the account of Atlantis.
However, as with Illyrian, most Dacian and Thracian words and names have not been closely linked with Albanian (v.
He also mentions a Latin inscription in Dacia Traiana which contains the Latin word for moon (luna) with the meaning for month, because Daco-Romanian displays a similar semantic development.
In 1883 Sumner published a highly-influential pamphlet entitled "What Social Classes Owe to Each Other", in which he insisted that the social classes owe each other nothing, synthesizing Darwin's findings with free-enterprise capitalism for his justification.
In Greek mythology, Cleito (Ancient Greek: Κλειτὼ means "renowned, famous") may refer to the following: Cleito, an Atlantian, daughter of the autochthon Evenor and Leucippe.
Many such views stress competition between individuals in laissez-faire capitalism, while others, emphasizing struggle between national or racial groups, support eugenics, racism, imperialism and/or fascism.
(2015) states that "the Armenian plateau hypothesis gains in plausibility" since the Yamnaya partly descended from a Near Eastern population, which resembles present-day Armenians.
This hypothesis was popular at the time, but now many regard it as nothing but the product of racist and discriminatory views Montandon held.
The thesis itself rested on a spurious intellectual foundation by claiming that the Turks had a Hittite ancestry which was of Central Asian Aryan origin.
Published works Books and other titles written by Mitchell-Hedges include: Battles With Giant Fish Danger, My Ally Land of Wonder and Fear Concerning Land of Wonder and Fear, prominent British archaeologist J.
Mythical Atlantic islands litter the early 14th-century portolan charts of Pietro Vesconte and Angelino Dulcert.
In The Independent's "Building a library" series Tom Holland recommended the work for those who "have had enough of scepticism" about the Trojan War legend and have "wondered why Ilium sounds a bit like Ilford".
A few scientific researchers such as psychologist Richard Lynn, psychologist Raymond Cattell, and scientist Gregory Stock have openly called for eugenic policies using modern technology, but they represent a minority opinion in current scientific and cultural circles.
Notes References Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S.
Gardner's collection of witchcraft items from Wiccan Monique Wilson, and displayed them in the museums.
Sprague gained the official Guinness World Record for 'heaviest weight lifted and spun with pierced ears' on the set of Lo Show dei Record in Milan, Italy on 19 Jun 2014.
Wilson argues that the essential weakness of James George Frazer's The Golden Bough is that Frazer attributed the fundamental mythological systems to the beginnings of the farming cultures, specifically to fertility.
Due to archaeology being the pursuit of learning about the past through the material remains of deceased peoples, the field has an inherent "mysterious and supernatural profile".
See also Mongolian idiocy Recapitulation theory Notes References External links The full text of The Mongol in Our Midst (1923 edition) at the Internet Archive
The museum asserts that most dinosaurs became extinct during the Great Flood, and that while a pair of young dinosaurs accompanied elephants and lions on Noah's Ark, these became extinct later.
References Sources https://web.archive.org/web/20121105104612/http://tatjana.ingold.ch/index.php?id=goetterspuren http://literaturtest.net/text/buch/rezensio/b/buergin.html Commercial Register: Dr.
Moreover, there is doubt if the emerging Kievan Rus' were the same clan as the "Rus" who visited the Carolingians in 839 or who attacked Constantinople in 860 AD.
Eumelus (Ancient Greek: Εὔμηλος Eúmēlos means "rich in sheep") was the name of: Mythology Eumelus (Gadeirus), the younger twin brother of Atlas in Plato's myth of Atlantis, and the son of Poseidon and Cleito, daughter of the autochthon Evenor and Leucippe.
Kennewick Man Gill has studied Kennewick Man, the skeletal remains of a prehistoric man found near Kennewick in the U.S.
Akakor is the name of a fictional mythic ancient underground city, located somewhere between Brazil, Bolivia, and Peru.
Discovery of Buddha's Birthplace Waddell had travelled around British controlled India in search for Kapilavastu, the Buddha's supposed birthplace.
Interestingly, the tradition of an ancient settlement associated with the lake is borne out by the archeological record for the area: traces of human habitation dating back as far as 40,000 BC have been found near Kouzan-am.
Art Tracy's artworks relate to techniques of combining traditional paintbrushing and finger-painting with modern airbrushing.
Some of the animals featured in the book, in particular the popular "night stalker" (a giant and flightless predatory descendant of bats), have inspired numerous similar designs through speculative evolution projects since.
Immigrationist scholars underline that the population of the Roman provinces to the south of the Danube was "thoroughly Latinized".
Brown pride is a response to the racist or colorist narrative that white skin is more beautiful than brown skin.
Schrader responded in 1890: "[The words for salmon similar to Lachs] are confined to a more limited linguistic area.
By the third edition of his book, published in 1902, he was more specific, with his primary theory being "a Semitic race and of Arabian origin" of "strongly commercial" traders living within a client African city.
Shortly afterward he started a collaboration with the German publisher Econ Verlag (and later Bastei Verlag) on a comic book series, offering Polish writers and illustrators for the joint venture.
Publisher and editors The journal is published by the Charles Martel Society (not to be confused with France's anti-Algerian Charles Martel Group), named in honor of Charles Martel, who halted a Muslim invasion of Europe at the Battle of Tours in 732.
During the 1930s and 1940s, the Nazi regime used forced sterilization on hundreds of thousands of people whom they viewed as mentally ill, an estimated 400,000 between 1934 and 1937.
Smith stated that Tutankhamen "narrowly escaped" the fate of being "hacked to pieces" by robbers, as was the case with the mummy of Amenhotep II.
Synopsis The film begins by introducing the cargo cults established by South Pacific Natives after coming in contact with American planes in World War II.
Genetic testing and historical analysis have not approved this theory, though it maintains negligible support within the Ahmadiyya movement.
They met Drbal, and dedicated a chapter of their popular 1970 book Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain to pyramid power.
Court records indicate Frank was a key figure in helping Colonia establish its weapons factories by contracting with German arms producers to assist the colony in setting up their operations.
Taylor regarded the "pyramid inch" to be 1/25 of the "sacred cubit", ancient unit based on the forearm length from the tip of the middle finger to the bottom of the elbow, whose existence had earlier been postulated by Isaac Newton.
Further searches have been conducted since the 1980s, coinciding with the publication of Kenneth McIntyre's book and the Mahogany Ship symposia, conducted in nearby Warrnambool.
The statement affirms that genetics "demonstrates that humans cannot be divided into biologically distinct subcategories" and that it "exposes the concept of racial purity as scientifically meaningless".
Overview In the first part of the book, Fort criticises astronomy, listing predictions astronomers made that never came true.
Major proponents of the hypothesis include alternative Egyptologist John Anthony West, and geologist Robert Schoch.
A Thousand Years of Yesterdays A fictional story, explaining reincarnation as a man re-experiences past selves.
Belgian lawyer Théophile Cailleux wrote that Odysseus sailed the Atlantic Ocean, starting from Troy, which he situated near the Wash in England (1879).
The peoples of the Iberian Peninsula, who were closest to the real Atlantic islands of the Canaries, Madeira and Azores, and whose seafarers and fishermen may have seen and even visited them, articulated their own tales.
Lewis later revealed that Pidgeon had fabricated most of his research, and distorted much of the rest of it, mapping mounds where none existed, and changing the arrangement of existing mound groups to suit his needs.
His description of the Hall of Records resembled the subterranean chambers described by Randall-Stevens and by Lewis and may have been derived from their works.
Discovery and exploration According to local reports, heavy rains combined with three earthquakes exposed the formation from the surrounding mud on May 19, 1948.
After six to eight months (corresponding possibly to the embryonic period) the Fanany (so the Betsileo believe) then appears in daylight in the form of a lizard.
The Saqqara Bird is a model bird made of sycamore wood and mounted on a stick, discovered during the 1898 excavation of the tomb of Pa-di-Imen in Saqqara, Egypt.
Prior to her death, the skull was only shown to the public periodically, making it hard for the skull to be accessed and tested for authenticity.
Considering the Blaauboschkraal stone ruins are located on a hillside of a valley, it is assumed this settlement was built in the 3rd stage of Bokoni civilisation.
The Inventory Stela, also known as the Stela of Khufu's Daughter, is an ancient Egyptian commemorative tablet dating back to the 26th Dynasty (circa 670 BC).
The commentator Adiyarkunallar mentions that the lost land extended from Pahruli river in the north to the Kumari river in the South.
Breuil's books contain valuable photographs and sketches of the art works at the sites he visited but are marred by official South African racism.
Wilson proposes that the outlook of ancient man was based on "seeing the big picture" rather than logically breaking down the universe into its constituent parts.
Discovery The stela was discovered in 1858 at Giza by the French archaeologist Auguste Mariette, during excavations of the Isis temple, next to queen's pyramid G1-c.
In his 1977 book Psychic Archaeology: Time Machine to the Past, his claims include that of finding "important 'archaeological remains' very deeply buried and dating to much earlier periods than accepted by conservative Establishment archaeologists".
In June 2025, seven members of AllatRa were arrested in Krasnoyarsk Krai by the FSB for allegedly organizing its activities.
Thus, he concluded that the inscriptions were most likely created after 1932.He was able to do a transliteration but not a translation as Wahlgren wrote, "as portions of the text appear to be scrambled or distorted in some way in order to impede too ready a full interpretation ...".
Definition The orientation of the Temple of Zeus is generally acknowledged by religious scholars as a form of Western esotericism, which embraces theistic Satanism with an esoteric perception contrasting the materialist and carnal inceptions idealized by LaVeyan Satanism.
While Eitzman had already suggested the pebble was brought to the cave because of the resemblance to a face, Dart recognized other faces when the stone is viewed from different angles.
Aztlán became a symbol for activists who allege that they have a legal and primordial right to the land.
"La Tlazolteotl de Dumbarton Oaks: un regard sous la surface" [The Dumbarton Oaks Tlazolteotl: looking beneath the surface] (English abstract).
American philologist George Sherman Lane concurred in a 1970 conference paper: "In my opinion, the name in question probably did refer originally not to the Salmo salar at all, but rather to the Salmo trutta caspius of the northwest Caucasus region." That lent support to the Kurgan hypothesis.
This wall was entirely removed apart from a small portion, which was incorporated into the Sphinx Temple.
There is uncertainty as to how large the Scandinavian migration to Rus' was, but some archaeological work in the years around 2000 argued for a substantial number of free farmers settling in the upper Volga region.
He claims that parts of these sites were built more than 10,000 years ago, in some cases much earlier than accepted by orthodox history, and with techniques and technology that were not yet supposed to be in existence.
Recent events In 1992 the State Government of Victoria offered a reward of A$250,000 to anyone who could locate the wreck but the offer was withdrawn in 1993 without money having been paid.
Similarly, in the 19th century, the Fennoman movement in the Grand Duchy of Finland aimed to raise the Finnish language from peasant status to an official national language, which had been solely Swedish for some time.
In other parts of Europe, interest in Norse mythology, history and language was represented by the Englishmen Thomas Gray, John Keats and William Wordsworth, and the Germans Johann Gottfried Herder and Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock.
It is thought to be more than coincidental that the stone was found among Scandinavian newcomers in Minnesota, still struggling for acceptance and quite proud of their Nordic heritage.
Criticism The idea was examined by two independent studies, one by Ian Burrow in 1975 and the other in 1983 by Tom Williamson and Liz Bellamy, using the standard methods of landscape historical research.
is an entertainment and edutainment holding company owned by the Jim Pattison Group of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
The five ancestors of Mieszko I as well as Chościsko, the father of Piast the Wheelwright have all been suggested as legendary progenitors of the Piast dynasty in Poland.
The history of eugenics is the study of development and advocacy of ideas related to eugenics around the world.
In Iberia, these later admixture (interbreeding) events were with central European (Celtic), eastern Mediterranean and northern African populations, and genomic ancestry from them are found in all or most present-day Iberian populations, except for the Basque.
Archeological evidence shows that some of the imported ceramics included Longquan green-glazed stoneware and blue-and-white porcelain that dates back to the 14th and 15th centuries.
The book details reports and interviews that document the effect of the electroculture process which had not been previously explained scientifically.
See also Meister Print London Hammer Out-of-place artifact References Coulam, Nancy J.; Schroedl, Alan R.
Over 3,000 photographs, taken from Alfred's original glass negative plates are held by Hereford Library.
After moving briefly to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and then Chula Vista, California, the Fellowship relocated near Ramona, California, to get away from the pressures and distractions of the city, but also have the advantages of being near a major city, San Diego.
They had five pairs of twins, namely: Atlas and Eumelus, Ampheres and Evaemon, Mneseus and Autochthon, Elasippus and Mestor, and lastly, Azaes and Diaprepes.
The two Spartan royal lines – the Agiad and Eurypontid dynasties – claimed legitimacy into the classical period through their descent from Herakles.
Ridpath concludes that any information that resembles the facts about Sirius was probably ascertained by way of cultural contact with Europeans.
His 1935 book A Voice Out of Egypt incorporated detailed diagrams of purported passageways beneath the plateau.
Cayce's readings often drew upon preexisting esoteric literature, sometimes citing such literature by name.
The Nazi theorist Alfred Rosenberg believed that the "Nordic race" was descended from Proto-Indo-Europeans, who he thought had pre-historically dwelt on the North German Plain and it was not impossible that the Nordic race ultimately originated on the lost island of Atlantis.
Weingärtner created the work to represent the evolution of information transfer from the ancient world to the present.
Blondeau built the roller suit as part of his graduation project at the industrial design school École nationale supérieure des arts appliqués et des métiers d'art (also known as the Olivier de Serres) in Paris.
Egypt theory His best known contribution, which has been described as pseudoarchaeology, is the claim that Aboriginal Australians came from Egypt, based on carvings at Devil's Rock, Wollombi, in the Royal National Park, Brunswick Heads, and other locations.
Fossiliferous limestone, interpreted as cross cutting the syncline, preclude the formation from being Noah's Ark because these supposed "Flood" deposits are younger than the "Ark." Anchor stones at Kazan (Arzap) are derived from local andesite and not from Mesopotamia.
Controversy The original rendition of the story, as it appeared in Das vegetarische Universum, was credited to Reinhardt Wegemann, although no German writer with this name can be found.
Hidden camera footage revealed Matthew Frost in 2023 claiming that "they've managed to get access to the UK Biobank," and to know more "talk to Emil".
His views do not fit within Malta's prehistoric chronology, as the earliest known human habitation of the island began in around 5900 BC.
Chahin:Urartian history is part of Armenian history, in the same sense that the history of the ancient Britons is part of English history, and that of the Gauls is part of French history.
Cultural aspects like music, food, literature, inventions, dances, and other concepts prominently stem from the combined experience of enslaved African American people and free African Americans who were still subject to racist laws in the United States.
Ripley's tripartite system was especially championed by Madison Grant, who changed Ripley's "Teutonic" type into Grant's own Nordic type (taking the name, but little else, from Deniker), which he postulated as a master race.
In that year, about 88 additional acres were added, 73 of which were purchased by River Parks with sales tax funding, and 15 coming from private donation.
A recent study using archaeological, ethnographic, and historical evidence, along with statistical modeling suggests that the sites population did not exceed 10,000 people.
Personal life In March 2012, Trippy was diagnosed with a benign oligodendroglioma brain tumor after having a seizure at the end of February.
Russell did not claim infallibility, but declared that God's plan of salvation could not be understood independently from his writings.
One group demonstrates an average weight of approximately 400g, and the other with an average weight of 220g.
Other possibilities are that it may have been a toy for an elite child, or it could have functioned as a weather vane.
The park itself says the sandstone involved is very soft and vulnerable to erosion which would cause any markings to quickly fade, so at most the carvings were done in the 1920s by oil field workers who were scouring the area for oil.
Plans call for a new Visitors Center east of Turkey Mountain's lower parking lot off Elwood, and additional parking.
The process was triggered by the establishment of the landlord system and the frequent wars which led to the escape and 'wandering' of slaves and free people coerced into subordination (see unintended consequences).
In 1958, with his wife Yvette and Denise Carvenne, member of The Treasure Seekers' Club (that he founded in 1951), he scanned the village and its church for treasure using a metal detector.
Religious Leaders of America: A Biographical Guide to Founders and Leaders of Religious Bodies, Churches, and Spiritual Groups in North America (2nd ed.).
According to Kakogeorgiou, his organisation was founded in 1962 and the E stands for "Ellínon" ("Greeks").
In present-day Biscay, Gipuzkoa, and Álava were located the Caristii, Varduli, and Autrigones, whose origin is still not clear.
McMullen was an intuitive archaeologist and forensic remote viewer who claimed that he had the ability to use paranormal psychic abilities to use objects to tune into scenes from the past.
While Erkilet discussed military contingencies, Nuri Pasha told the Germans about his plan to establish independent states which would be allies (not satellites) of Turkey.
References Ripley's World of the Unexplained SECRET FUN BLOG: WORLD OF THE UNEXPLAINED MUSEUM BROCHURE
Along with the law, Adolf Hitler personally decriminalised abortion in case of fetuses having racial or hereditary defects for doctors, while the abortion of healthy "pure" German, "Aryan" unborn remained strictly forbidden.
The Mankind Quarterly was published by the Ulster Institute for Social Research, which was presided over by Richard Lynn until his death in 2023.
"Глава xvii: Надконфессиональная синкретическая религиозная философия" [Chapter xvii: Non-denominational syncretic religious philosophy].
According to Michael Ruse, Darwin read Malthus' famous Essay on a Principle of Population in 1838, four years after Malthus' death.
The Arab historian al-Masudi wrote that "Qandhar" (Gandhara in modern-day north west Pakistan) is a country of Rajputs and was a separate kingdom with a non-Muslim ruler.
He was the elder brother of Mestor and his other siblings were Atlas and Eumelus, Ampheres and Evaemon, Mneseus and Autochthon, and lastly, Azaes and Diaprepes.
It is suggested that the ancient city of Serbinum in Pannonia was named after these hypothetical autochthonic Serbs.
Little specific is known about his schooling, but it is assumed that he received a basic primary and secondary education.
It particularly disputes the statements of the PBS documentary Race: The Power of an Illusion aired in 2003.
San Jose Mogote is a site that dates to the early Zapotecs, a civilization that situated well outside the Olmec heartland.
In 1830 George Combe came to Ireland, his self-promotion barely winning out against his lack of medical expertise, still only drawing lukewarm crowds.
The methods and equipment that had been used in the murder of thousands of mentally ill persons were then transferred to concentration camps, because the materials and resources needed to efficiently murder large numbers of people existed and had been proven successful.
Babylonokia (also Babylon-Nokia, Alien-Mobile, and Cuneiform Mobile Phone) is a 2012 artwork by Karl Weingärtner in the form of a clay tablet shaped like a mobile phone, its keys and screen showing cuneiform script.
An entry in Medieval Scandinavia: an Encyclopedia says map and text 'include a cluster of grapes, a figure rowing a canoe, an animal pelt, a slingshot or ballista, a rattle, a human face and.
According to that view, White Serbia and White Croatia were designated as western Serbia and western Croatia, and were situated in the west from some hypothetical lands that had same names and that presumably existed in the east.
Likely the foundational population were of eastern Iranian origin and later mixed with various other groups which they came into contact with in the region over time.
In October 2007, a memorial was installed at Madurai by the Government of Tamil Nadu in honour of Devaneya Pavanar.
The study of alien cultures might offer us glimpses into our own species' past or future development.
Notes External links Works by William Scott-Elliot at Project Gutenberg Works by or about William Scott-Elliot at the Internet Archive Works by William Scott-Elliot at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) The Lost Lemuria, at Sacred Texts The Story of Atlantis, at Sacred Texts
Idaho Northwest Science Museum, founded 2014 in Boise, Idaho Kentucky Creation Museum, located in Petersburg, Kentucky, opened in 2007 and constructed at a cost of $27 million, includes exhibits of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden accompanied by dinosaurs.
Jane MacLaren Walsh is an anthropologist and researcher at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C.
These elements of Fadiman's narrative bear similarity to Osório's account of The Battle of Brava (1507).
De Loys's group suffered diseases and violent encounters with native populations; only four of the 20 members survived.
While virtually indescribable, the sonic churnings and juxtaposed images reveal a brilliant display of textures and tonalities set against an ocean of occasional rhythms.
The cave is used by the native Shuar people who descend into the cave each spring using vine ladders and bamboo torches to collect fledgling oilbirds ("guácharos" or "tayos" in Spanish).
History In 1899 Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, founder of the Ahmadiyya movement, theorized that Jesus had survived the crucifixion and traveled to Kashmir to find and preach to the lost tribes of Israel.
An investigation by Pierre Stromberg and Paul Heinrich, using x-rays taken of the object, with the help of members of the Spark Plug Collectors of America, identified the artifact as a 1920s-era Champion spark plug, widely used in the Ford Model T and Model A engines.
He conceived it, at least partially and tactically, as an offering calculated to solidify the Italo-German alliance.
Agreeing with the philosopher Giorgio de Santillana's thesis developed in Hamlet's Mill (1969), Wilson places the genesis of mythology previous to fertility cultures, linking the fundamental myths to astronomical occurrences such as the Precession of the Equinoxes.
A creationist museum is a facility that hosts exhibits which use the established natural history museum format to present a young Earth creationist view that the Earth and life on Earth were created some 6,000 to 10,000 years ago in six days.
Senator, Confederate officer, and slaveowner Zebulon Baird Vance, written sometime between 1868 and 1870.
presenting the Blaauboschkraal stone ruins, interpreted by mainstream archaeology as 16th century boundary markers, as 'Adam's Calendar', an alien-built structure at the center of a network of stone circles across Southern Africa which purportedly channeled energy in ancient times.
Feder argues a reader seeing the Nazca Lines for the first time in a book about aliens would be much more likely to associate those features with extraterrestrial origins, rather than from a civilization that existed on Earth.
Naming traditions and later confusion The survival of the myth is sometimes linked to the presence of Egyptian-themed place-names such as Isis Temple and Horus Temple on official maps.
Medical ethics concerns Glenn McGee, director of the Center for Bioethics at Albany Medical College in New York, said: "Cosmetic surgery is a practice based on informed consent that needs to balance the risks with the benefits.
However, in reference to this, Crookshank argued at length that Down's patients, for their perceived similarities to Mongolian people, were, therefore, "real Mongols" as Down had argued against.
Hitler's conception of the Aryan Herrenvolk (master race) explicitly excluded the vast majority of Slavs, regarding the Slavs as having dangerous Jewish and Asiatic influences.
Career Michel Lotito began eating unusual material at 16 years of age, and he performed publicly beginning in 1966, around the age of 16.
I would argue that the evidence is that the bad old days aren't over." On September 24, the third and last day of the conference, Howard University professor Rodney Green began addressing the audience just as they were leaving for a coffee break.
During Atatürk's government, scholars like Hasan Reşit Tankut and Rıfat Osman Bey were encouraged to have the findings of their studies in history and social sciences be in line with the Turkish Historical Thesis and the Sun Language Theory.
The series contains commentary about biblical events and expressions, and progresses from elementary topics such as the existence of God and promoting the Bible as God's word, to deeper subject matter throughout the series.
Breuil's farfetched theory aligned with the racist policies of the South African government at that time, which downplayed any evidence that Black people could produce sophisticated works of art.
Bactrian origin The Cambridge History of Iran: Volume 2 also states the Bactrian tribes to be ancestors of Pashtuns.
Thompson commented that "to me the wonder was how he could write such nonsense and the fear how much taller the next yarn would be".
Semir Osmanagić (born June 1, 1960), also known as Sam Osmanagich, is a Bosnian-American businessman and author.
This includes insights into cosmology and eschatology as well as lost knowledge of advanced technology and ecology that, when known, can be used to improve the human condition and create a future Utopia.
(2015) found 22.2% of E1b1b in a sample of Tutsis from Burundi, but no bearers of the haplogroup among the local Hutu and Twa populations.
He killed his son for having eaten the brains of a sheep that had been sacrificed before it had been put on the altar.
Introduced by Brad Steiger in his 1976 book Gods of Aquarius, it argues that certain people originated as extraterrestrials and arrived on Earth through birth or as a walk-in to an existing human body.
Two sale catalogues of his collection, catalogued by Edouard Frossard, were published in New York in 1887.
In 1886, mining engineer Adolf Gurlt reported on the object to the Natural History Society of Bonn, noting that the object was coated with a thin layer of rust, was made of iron, and had a specific gravity of 7.75.
Extensive searches of the area were again conducted in late 1999 and in 2004, using heavy drills that penetrated to a depth of 10 metres.
Kelly hung a plastic model of a pyramid in the team's clubhouse after a pair of away defeats at the start of the series, and each player took turns standing under it for exactly four minutes.
The adherents of this idea use wide-ranging methods, from controversial ones, such as dowsing and asking mediums to contact the dead, to more conventional methods such as etymology, but also claim that the established academic material consists of lies and forgeries.
Population Church of Saint Mary Magdalene The village church dedicated to Saint Mary Magdalene has been rebuilt several times.
Another employee of HDF is Edward Dutton, a former editor-in-chief of Mankind Quarterly and racist YouTuber who promotes eugenics.
Size and location Turkey Mountain is a hill occupying a wide area on the west side of the Arkansas River in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Other observers have noted that the hammer is stylistically consistent with typical American tools manufactured in the region in the late 19th century.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 31 out of 100, based on seven critics, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.
More crucially, there are so many ancient features that finding some in approximate alignment is highly likely (for example, see and discussion after article).
The law also enforced sterilization on the so-called "Rhineland bastards," the mixed-race children of German civilians and French African soldiers who helped occupy the Rhineland.
Sitchin attributed the creation of the ancient Sumerian culture to the Anunnaki, which he claimed was a race of extraterrestrials from a planet beyond Neptune called Nibiru.
While the theory gathered support in England in the middle of the seventeenth century, it was less popular in New England, reflecting the New Englanders' greater familiarity with Native Americans, whereas the likes of Thorowgood and Ben Israel had never been to the continent.
Her place is taken by her daughter, Aistar, who continues to observe the civilization created by her ancestor while continuing the fight against Dr.
Other ancient astronaut and theosophist writers have alleged that the Book of Dzyan originated on another planet.
Slater, F., 'Geographical nomenclature: Larmer's native names of points at Port Jackson', Mankind, Volume 1, Issue 9, pages 213–218, May 1934, (or June 1934) Australian Anthropological Society.
See also Genetic studies on Serbs Names of the Serbs and Serbia References Sources Novaković, Relja (1992).
But an argument against an Olmec origin is the fact that the Olmec civilization had ended by the 4th century BC, several centuries before the earliest known Long Count date artifact.
Notably, three enslaved women, Anarcha, Lucy, and Betsey, were subjects of his non-consensual experimentation.
The Martians' behaviour and personalities were initially developed while the puppeteers were messing around on set.
After catching Necrozma at Mount Lanakila, Colress will appear and give the player the N-Solarizer or N-Lunarizer, allowing Necrozma to fuse or separate from Solgaleo or Lunala respectively.
Artificial humans and autonomous artificial servants have a long history in human culture, though the term Robot and its modern literary conception as a mobile machine equipped with an advanced artificial intelligence are more fairly recent.
In a conversation with George, Andrew realizes he must also expand his vocabulary, and decides to go to the library.
Through both routine labor, and many misadventures, Shelby endures much positive character building.
storyline in Avengers #386–387 (May–June 1995), Captain America #440 (June 1995), The Avengers #388 (July 1995) and Captain America #441 (July 1995), MODOK is resurrected.
Invader Zim ultimately ended up being sandwiched between The Fairly OddParents and Rocket Power, which did not feel like a suitable time slot for the show, according to the creator.
He obtained the Book of Envy when Merlok scattered the Books of Power across the kingdom, making him desire everything.
He created the Forbidden Power of Petrified Quake by combining two other Forbidden Powers together, allowing his Krakenbeast to generate earthquakes and petrify objects with a roar.
Studio engaged in 'silent running.' " However, in October 2010, Bear commented on his website that Ken Nolan (who wrote the screen adaptation for Ridley Scott's Black Hawk Down film), was actively working on a screenplay.
The team then "unplugs" Neo and with the help of a friendly machine, who was hacked, he is revived in the real world inside Bugs' ship, the Mnemosyne.
He falls out of grace for a short while after Nico Minoru discovers that the Pride has tapped into Victor's circuits and was using him to spy on the team.
In June 2021 Ubisoft announced in a press release that the game had been played by 7.5 million players.
Relentless in her pursuit, she contends with adversaries from her distant past and colleagues of uncertain loyalty, all while racing against time.
He appeared as the brother to the other protagonist, Edward, in their searching for a way to recover their bodies.
Hot Toys produced a 1/6 scale 15-inch ED-209 model as part of their Movie Masterpiece series - the popularity of this model later prompted the release of a battle-damaged version.
The term "Rocket Reds" refers to any member of the Rocket Red Brigade; the name in the singular is used to refer to the three individual characters named Rocket Red who were members of the Justice League.
Additionally, the player can join either Team Rainbow or Team Inferno and compete in daily missions to win teardrops by dashing through the most stars.
Tōko Kuzunoha (葛葉 刀子, Kuzunoha Tōko) is the woman in charge of the Mahora mage organization's operations division, ranking second only to the Headmaster.
Despite reports, the model was not destroyed during filming and was sent out on promotional tours after.
As a result of appearing in the series mostly in his armor, Arakawa has been focused on searching ways to make it appear as Alphonse is expressing emotions despite not having a body.
In "Too Young", he takes over as ruler of the Candy Kingdom when Bubblegum is deemed too young after being de-aged in the events of "Mortal Recoil"; jailing most of the candy subjects before Bubblegum returns to her original age.
The player can collect teardrops to customize their character and complete missions to unlock new content and abilities.
Original ThunderCats Jaga Jaga (voiced by Earl Hammond in the original series, Corey Burton in the 2011 series, Larry Kenney in ThunderCats Roar) is also known as "Jaga the Wise" and is based on the Jaguar.
MODOK appears as a boss in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order, voiced again by Wally Wingert.
WEP purchased the rights to the original Dairugger XV as well as Albegas and Golion some time previously, so Bandai had to relicense the toys back from WEP to produce them.
The T-X is designed to not only terminate humans, but also rogue Terminators reprogrammed by the Resistance, an "anti-terminator terminator" as stated by John Connor.
Biff's DeLorean gets damaged by a T-Rex and lands in a volcano while the T-Rex swallows the 8-passenger DeLorean, but spits it back out.
Xavier tells Havok to destroy Cerebro after Apocalypse takes control of Xavier's powers through Cerebro.
The incident trapped her in a building on Devastis, the Irken military training planet, causing her to miss her chance to take the test to become one of the Irken Elite Soldiers (and an Invader).
For example, excessive energy consumption without adequate heat removal could plausibly render the planet of a Type I approaching civilization unsuitable for the biology of the dominant life forms and their food sources.
There are three classes of ship hulls: small, medium, and large, which are unlocked as the player climbs the appropriate research tree.
The character also appeared the same month in the small-press hobbyist magazine The Comic Reader #44 (Jan.
Robo Warriors (also known as Robot Jox 3: 2086 Apocalypse) is a 1996 American post-apocalyptic mecha science-fiction film directed by Ian Barry.
It was written and storyboarded by Tom Herpich and Steve Wolfhard, from a story by Patrick McHale, Kent Osborne, Pendleton Ward, Rebecca Sugar, Herpich, and Wolfhard.
Zoids (ゾイド, Zoido) is a Japanese science fiction media franchise owned by Tomy that features mecha called Zoids, with designs being based on animals including dinosaurs, mammals, insects, arachnids and mythological creatures.
Young Cricket (Japanese: ヤングクリケット, Hepburn: Yangu Kuriketto) is first introduced in WarioWare: Smooth Moves.
Alternatively, another way is to take one entrance of the wormhole and move it to within the gravitational field of an object that has higher gravity than the other entrance, and then return it to a position near the other entrance.
In 2011 Swardson revealed he had written a four-part mystery series, "Gay Robot and the Curse of the Haunted Jockstrap" for Gay Robot, but the network killed it after the script phase.
For example, to deceive Wei, Chip consents to the replacement of his green eye with a brown one even though it involves giving up a cherished part of his identity.
Machinesmith later appears in Madripoor, having captured Captain America and deactivated the Super Soldier Serum in his foe's body.
The first scene of the story is explained as Andrew seeks out a robotic surgeon to perform an ultimately fatal operation: altering his positronic brain so that it will decay with time.
1969), and briefly appeared as a character using the Mister Fear identity shortly thereafter in Daredevil #54 (July 1969).
Moe explains BMO's backstory, revealing that BMO was created to take care of and have fun with Moe's son; however, Moe never had children and so he released BMO into the wild to find another family.
Publication history Calculator first appeared in Detective Comics #463 (September 1976), and he was created by Bob Rozakis and Mike Grell.
Moon is taken to the capital planet, Kharemough, and discovers that the Winters' prejudice against sibyls is a political tool used by the Hegemony to preserve its control of technology on Tiamat.
Doing so causes Vision great mental strain; he quickly realizes that what he has done his wrong and that the crystal is negatively influencing his emotional judgment.
At the height of the series' popularity, fizzbomb sweets were marketed in the UK under the name Metal Mickey's Atomic Thunderbusters.
These providers enable direct access to databases such as Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and others, and are commonly used in applications that require cross-platform data access, integration with ORM technologies, or support for specific database features.
By the end of the year, the two games had sold over 2 million copies in Japan alone, making it the best-selling video game in the country for 2017.
They make use of numerous experiments on the human populace such as the use of nanites to create a virus that turns a human into a synthetic.
This lets Q and his friends have fun in the 9.9999+ range, but also lets our ship travel slowly enough to keep the galaxy a big place, and meets the other criteria.
However to her and Finn's surprise, they have both fallen in love with each other, but Huntress Wizard states that they are "exceptional beasts" and therefore incapable of being together, which Finn concurs.
New features Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon introduce some new Ultra Beasts: Stakataka, Blacephalon, Poipole and its evolution, Naganadel.
Players can also weaken an enemy system's defenders by placing their fleets in orbit and besieging the enemy system, which decreases the number of enemy troops.
Rin Todoriki (等々力 凛, Tōdōriki Rin) Voiced by: Manabi Mizuno (Japanese); Dorothy Elias-Fahn (English) Rin is the brown-haired and tallest member of the "Triomatic." She is the most ladylike of the three, but is also a skilled martial artist and very loyal.
It is not clear whether it finds mutants by their power signature or by the presence of the X-gene in their body; both methods have been used throughout the comics.
Merchandise A magazine was published in July 2002, corresponding with the show's "Get Streetwise" road safety campaign.
After having a change of heart, he decides to help the group, even risking his life by destroying a version of himself to extract the Black Materia Sephiroth needs to summon the Meteor spell.
Sanderson also found traces of William Shakespeare's characters Richard III and Iago in Doom; all of them "are descended from the 'vice' figure of medieval drama", who address the audience in monologs detailing their thoughts and ambitions.
Every girl on Planet Purple is named "Pauline" and every boy is named "Paul." Purple Panda, a resident of Planet Purple, can return there "the purple way" (just by thinking).
Angry Video Game Nerd: The Movie (2014) At the end of the Spielberg Games review, it was implied that E.T.
Reception Box office Pacific Rim Uprising grossed $59.9 million in the United States and Canada, and $231.1 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $290.9 million, against a production budget of about $150 million.
The sophistication of positronic circuitry renders a brain so small that it could comfortably fit within the skull of an insect.
Axlotl tanks are eventually revealed to be semi-artificial uteri created by transforming women into biological factories.
ISBN 1-46546-087-X LEGO NEXO KNIGHTS Build Your Own Adventure : With Minifigure and exclusive model.
This allowed Monstrox to persuade him to turn to evil in order to take revenge on his former mockers.
Hope Frozen premiered at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival 2019, where it won the Best International Feature Documentary award, and was shown at several documentary film festivals.
British comics historian Steve Holland would even go as far as to suggest that Thunder was deliberately created to be merged into Lion.
Zingbot 9000 (formerly Zingbot 3000), colloquially known as Zingbot, is a robot visitor that is featured on the American version of the television show Big Brother, which airs on CBS.
Similarly, another feature that differentiates him from others is repeated use of the word "Yosh" (meaning alright in Japanese) during speech as well as shouting "AOW!" to express excitement and boastfulness.
Even when allied with others, he often seeks personal gain, as seen when he attempted to steal Thanos’ Infinity Gauntlet during a confrontation with the Titan.
Sea Monster Army The Sea Monster Army is a group of monsters seen in the book "Lego Nexo Knights: The Book of Monsters" and did not appear in the TV series.
It won the 49th International Emmy Award for Best Documentary in 2021, becoming the first Thai production to win an International Emmy.
Reception Cultural impact In an episode of The Simpsons ("I, D'oh-Bot"), Homer fights an ED-209 built by Professor Frink and his son in a robot-fighting television show called Robot Rumble.
Johansson is aboard the Marie Celeste, and the action ends with him preparing to kill the Starflyer.
A U.S.–Soviet race to build the Machine ensues, but Soviet design flaws leave the American version as the only option.
A typical videophone call from Spacely starts with him yelling "JETSON!!!" He attempts to fire George for the slightest offense, though Spacely gives George his job back at the end of the episode or before the beginning of the next episode.
Constance Elizabeth Chapman (1919–2005) was a British children's author who created a series of books based on a fictional red lorry called "Marmaduke".
This is because underground at distance r {\displaystyle r} from the center is like being on the surface of a planet of radius r {\displaystyle r} , within a hollow sphere which contributes nothing.
GamesRadar's Tyler Wilde wrote that Wheatley was "surprisingly expressive" and called it "bumbling".
Writer Holly Harold questions whether or not Jimmy has taken over the place in Chloe's heart that Clark occupied for so long.
Drones get around the limitations of this inanimation with the ability to project "fields": both those capable of physical force, which allow them to manipulate objects, as well as visible, coloured fields called "auras", which are used to enable the drone to express emotion.
He also came up with a new spell: "Spell Synthesis: Lightning God Lance: Titan Slayer" which is a new high class lightning spell that he used to lure Jack Rakan into a trap in their gladiator match.
The evacuees eventually settle a newly terraformed Mars while some form the crew of a Ship of the Law to hunt down the home world of the killers, a quest described in the sequel, Anvil of Stars.
The stories were originally published in the science fiction magazine Amazing Stories from 1939 to 1942.
Since the Arusian Voltron is too far away to help these explorers, a totally new Voltron has to be constructed to battle the Drule threat.
Though the Great Intelligence was brought back as an antagonist in the seventh series of Doctor Who's 2005 revival, the Yeti were not brought back with it.
Author Nikki Stafford connects Adam's need to learn about the world around him to Frankenstein's monster: Adam must understand why other people are here and why he has emotions, a peculiarity of his creation as Dr.
Unmatched in raw strength, Ayla is the chief of Ioka Village and leads her people in war against a species of humanoid reptiles known as Reptites.
Expanding Imaginations and Fantasy Genres Zauberer Berlin (in German) Judgments of effort for magical violations of intuitive physics External links Lawrence Watt-Evans, "Laws of Fantasy", Starlog Patricia C.
Great Boomerang - グレート ブーメラン: The great red "V" plate on his chest can be picked up and thrown at enemies, with a boomerang effect.
The Vancian magic system included "basic assumptions about how arcane magic worked" that "only began to change with D&D 3e (2000), which introduced the non-memorizing sorcerer, and with D&D 3.5e (2003), which introduced the at-will warlock".
This resulted in a purposeless Lich trapped in a comatose state within Prismo's chamber until the events of "Wake Up" and "Escape from the Citadel" when Finn and Jake need to commit a cosmic crime to reach the multiverse prison called the Citadel.
After finally disabling the defender droid and destroying the Jeremiah O'Brian, the player is brought back to Starbase Amethyst expecting to be greeted as a hero for saving the world and stopping the war.
Legion's backstory involves him retracing the worlds Shepard had visited in the first Mass Effect, searching for the human who managed to defeat Sovereign and the geth heretic faction.
Alastor decides to engage Vox in combat; in response, he overloads the cannon with power, to the point that, if fired, will wipe out all of Hell.
One of the areas within the Vortex uses the "Singing Mountain" song that was featured on the original Chrono Trigger soundtrack.
Jason is bumped out of the wormhole by London Jefferson's abandoned space shuttle, which had earlier been sucked into the same vortex while fleeing Planet #666.
In 1986, the novel won the Locus Award for Best First Novel, and placed #15 in the poll for the Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel.
The Smash Martians were the stars of a series of 1970s and early 1980s TV advertising campaigns for Smash instant mashed potato in the UK.
He first appears in "Korn's Groovy Pirate Ghost Mystery", Kenny wears a life-sized ED-209 Halloween costume.
As the final Incursion approaches in the Secret Wars storyline, Doom usurps the power of the Beyonders with the aid of Doctor Strange and Molecule Man.
To ensure the machines felt grounded in reality, the audio team avoided relying exclusively on synthetic noises, instead anchoring the digital samples by layering them with organic, real-world animal recordings.
The Goo faction features the game's namesake, self replicating nanobots that can move around the map consuming enemies and forming themselves into new units.
Merchant also spoke some of the written dialogue in a way that seemed improvisational, such as in the "reading and repetition of words".
A digital speedometer is attached to the dashboard so that the operator can accurately gauge the car's speed.
Gerry Anderson believed that Penelope and Tin-Tin's trip to Olsen's lodge looked suitably realistic, despite APF never having shown puppets skiing prior to this episode.
However, the entry was pushed back until it was finalized during the latter part of the fifth season; according to both supervising producer Adam Muto and Rebecca Sugar, by the time the episode was being developed during the fifth season, it had substantially changed.
For the scene in "The Cham-Cham" where Penelope glides across the Paradise Peaks ballroom while singing "Dangerous Game", Webb worked the puppet from the stage while fellow operator Christine Glanville controlled its wired top portion from an overhead gantry.
A minor scuffle ensues between Dita and Chi, before Zima restrains Dita, wishing to see the outcome of Hideki's decision and ultimately too falling under Chi's influence.
Additionally, the Doom Patrol incarnation of Robotman (see below) appears in the episode "Game Over", with Riley Shanahan replacing Michaels.
This led to the longest running of Confused.com’s campaigns, starting from 2005 until 2008, featuring simple cardboard props on a white background, later with people saying they were "Confused.com" by the depicted marketplace.
Accelerando is a 2005 science fiction novel consisting of a series of interconnected short stories written by British author Charles Stross.
Plot introduction The book is a collection of nine short stories telling the tale of three generations of a family before, during, and after a technological singularity.
The opening chapters describe the creation of Roderick and show his mind (at first consisting of a bodiless computer program) developing through several stages of awareness.
Frost, disillusioned by the Mothervine plot, frees Polaris's team, who make their way to the inner circle's meeting room.
Five Nights at Freddy's 3, which earned a Metacritic score of 68, maintained the franchise's core formula but updated its camera system; Petitte appreciated these improvements but felt the phantom animatronics fell short of their older counterparts.
However, on Big Brother 17, he got an upgrade, now named the "Zingbot 9000" which had much more brutal zings on August 26, 2015.
She is reunited with her son after the Justice League revives him, and Bruce Wayne manages to buy her house back from the bank after the team, including Superman, defeats the forces of Apokolips.
Ubisoft released post-launch downloadable content (DLC) through a season pass, which includes new weapons, solo challenges, cooperative maps, and story-based content.
There is even the mysterious Pennsylvania Pratt [Scrimshander Limes] who has forgotten his identity after a personal tragedy and remembers it temporarily while saving shipwreck [sabotage] victims.
Barrie lost his older brother, the character of Yoyo reflects the idea of a "boy who couldn't grow up." In the same interview, Park also commented on the novel's setting in a reunified Korea.
Meanwhile, Jeff assigns Lady Penelope and Tin-Tin to investigate Paradise Peaks, a mountaintop hotel in the Swiss Alps that is currently playing host to Cass Carnaby and his group.
Manga adaptation The anime series also was adapted into a few manga issues published as one-shot stories, based on the storylines shown in the anime.
The study was expanded to include homosexual women; the results were consistent with previous findings meaning that homosexual women were not as responsive to male identified odors, while their response to female cues was similar to that of heterosexual males.
For the combined field, gravity and electricity, Einstein and Rosen derived the following Schwarzschild static spherically symmetric solution where ε {\displaystyle \varepsilon } is the electric charge.
His character has been well received by readers of the series; he has consistently appeared in the top ten series' popularity polls.
The conclusion from these experiments was that the effect observed by Brown was "ion wind"; no experiments found evidence that thrust could be observed in a vacuum.
The descendants of the Autobots, the Maximals from Transformers: Beast Wars, are also known as Cybertrons in Japan.
Simian Lucy Simian (voiced by Lewis MacLeod, season 1; Hugo Harrison, season 2 onward) is a 2-million-year-old baboon, the sadistic teacher of Gumball and Darwin's class as well as a major antagonist.
Rover behaves as if it were a self-aware or quasi-intelligent entity and can interact with its surroundings, as well as adjusting to and anticipating the actions of Number 6 and other characters.
Although they had been a cohesive group of friends in the first three seasons, situations arise in the fourth to separate them.
As Allison Mack explains, Chloe is so blinded by her love for Clark that she neglects to see all of the mistakes that he makes.
His name was first mentioned in The Old Castle's Secret by Carl Barks, but his true first appearance was in The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck, Part 9: The Billionaire of Dismal Downs, by Don Rosa.
The trio soon found themselves careering through history, battling the cruel Hugo the Black Wolf in the 14th century, freeing a future version of London from the rule of the Superons, defeating crooked 18th century magistrate Sir Jeremiah Creefe, and saved the future from invasion by the Krulls.
In this experiment, the two measurements of an entangled state are correlated even when the measurements are distant from the source and each other.
The mustard of your doom!" was regarded by MTV Multiplayer writer Steven Totilo as one of the most famous lines in video games of recent years and was quoted with "uncommon frequency".
The book explores the theme of government surveillance of electronically stored information on the private lives of citizens, and the possible civil liberties and ethical implications of using such technology.
His name indicates that prior to the events of the Destiny video game series, Cayde-6 has been rebooted six times, which includes the moment he was awoken by his Ghost Sundance as a Guardian, the protectors of Earth's last safe city for humanity.
Following the events of "Flashpoint", Static is given a new flying disk that now contains a holographic interface and is capable of collapsing into separate pieces or re-configuring into various forms for various uses and applications.
Magus tried once more after the party's battle in his castle returned him to Zeal, where he disguised himself as the Prophet.
Imperial nobles would visit Kalgan as a means to indulge themselves, making the planet and its leadership immensely prosperous.
48 Shaula Voiced by: Ami Koshimizu (Japanese); Elizabeth Maxwell (English) Shaula (シャウラ, Shaura) only appears in Soul Eater Not!
Fleets are issued up to three different 'cards', one for each stage of combat, which represent fleet-wide general orders, from categories such as attack, defend, tactics, sabotage, and engineering.
The efficacy and suitability of a specific exoskeleton depends on many aspects of the design, as well as the user and use case.
One character is said to have a Visi-Sonor, the same musical instrument that is played by the clown Magnifico in Foundation and Empire.
This will allow him access to the temple of Gung, a warlord who nearly conquered the world over ten thousand years ago with supernatural power gained from "a fabulous melon-sized jewel", which Zombie obviously plans to use for himself.
Five Nights at Freddy's 3 was teased on Cawthon's website in January 2015, and a trailer was released on January 26, 2015.
Mechakoopa – A robot with a wind-up key that becomes disabled and can be thrown after being stomped on.
These advanced drone units are first suspected to belong to the Silent Ones but are later revealed to be human in origin.
A tie-in to the Friday the 13th series of American horror films, it is the fourth in a series of five Jason X novels published by Black Flame and is set in Moon Camp Americana, a reformatory for wayward girls that is attacked by undead cyborg Jason Voorhees.
In "Ninja Holiday", Cobra Commander holds a secret contest where the winner will be the one to take out Serpentor.
He described this "more cynical worldview" as "anti-technology scaremongering." Heather Alexandra of the same publication noted the character's heavy similarities with Overwatch's Sigma, to the point that they could be the same character.
In 2012, NASA reported that it was experimenting with the concept of warp drive and the loophole within Einstein's theory of relativity.
Serpentor is not seen again in the DiC series, leaving it unclear if Serpentor's iguana form successfully escaped or not.
Both George Lucas's film THX 1138 (1971) and the original novel version of Logan's Run (1967) by William F.
Their bodies were cremated by their son Remy after a malfunction saw their body temperatures rise to -20 °C from -65 °C for a period of several days.
After having become a successful engineering entrepreneur, she went about amassing an army of animals from every zoo and animal shelter by selling them tracking chips.
Two months after I read it, I began 'Robbie', about a sympathetic robot, and that was the start of my positronic robot series.
Since I had no access to a Xerox machine, I did not have a copy of the original drawing, so I recreated the character as best I could from memory.
The real-life venue for Three Weeks in a Helicopter, the Alhambra Music Hall, was ultimately demolished in 1936 to make way for a theatre, reflecting Huxley's fears that mass-produced entertainment would replace art.
The character's primary characteristic is his rivalry with Alastor the Radio Demon, one of the show's main characters.
After his bucket list is completed by Finn, Billy's spirit manifests itself in the stars, thanking Finn for his assistance and revealing that Finn's human father is still alive.
Title In Italian, accelerando means "speeding up" and is used as a tempo marking in musical notation.
Monstrox was a necromancer and former member of the Wizards' Council who terrorized Knighton with his monster armies and the Forbidden Powers a century ago prior to the events of the series.
All of the mentioned examples contained and featured signature swords that, as part of the story, can either backfire on to the user or be corrupted by some other means.
References External links Frederator's Animation and Production Blog Adventure Time on Cartoon Network Adventure Time on Cartoon Network UK
Dean claimed that his device was able to generate a uni-directional force in free space, in violation of Newton's third law of motion from classical physics.
This resulted in her being able to construct force fields out of air and water particles rather than energy.
Later in the series it is realized that in fact Éclair is roughly 250 years old and has been "reborn" several times.
The character also became a fixture in Lion Annual and appeared in three issues of Lion Picture Library.
Support machinery with a vehicle mode, an optional assault body, and possibly other mission-specific optional add-on bodies.
He had a significant presence in the comic series The Invincible Iron Man, which began the same year and ran until 2012.
Space at IMDb Revenge of the Humanoids at IMDb Ginga Patrol PJ (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
A self-professed geek, Virgil is portrayed as avid comic book and video game fan, something that was retained for his animated incarnation.
Victor discovers that his actual "father" is Ultron, who created him as a sleeper agent for the Avengers.
Destructoid's Ray Porreca scored the game a 7.5/10, arguing that "[its] various parts [...] come together in a solid package.
In a drunken vacation mishap, Shelby accidentally ends up in a remote mining colony with no easy return, due to entering a FTL translation node without setting the coordinates.
Merchandise Rocket Red received an action figure in Mattel's DC Universe: Justice League Unlimited Fan Collection toy line.
There was a report that it was being used by aquatic oceanographer and filmmaker Fabien Cousteau to monitor the health of underwater divers.
On May 11, 2020, exactly one day before the Switch version's release, both the PlayStation 4 and the Nintendo Switch versions were eventually rescheduled for June 23, 2020 release due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Transport helicopters such as the "Pegasus" can fly to an object and airlift it to the ship-board recycling system with little resources required.
Sibyls have the ability to communicate with a vast electronic databank, which explains their ability to answer seemingly unknowable questions.
On board Silver Wings of Morning, Hesperus reveals to Campion that while he managed to destroy Cadence before they could leave the Neume star system, Cascade survived and he and Cascade had engaged in a marathon battle, several thousand years.
Modern medical exoskeletons serve a variety of assistive and rehabilitative uses and have regulatory approvals and insurance reimbursement codes in various countries.
The mini-series showed Vision and Wanda moving into a house in Leonia, New Jersey, hoping to strengthen their marriage by enjoying a life and experiences outside of the Avengers.
Most Culture citizens choose this when they reach adulthood (according to The Player of Games this is known as "completing one's name").
Anderson (1999–2001) it is revealed that a renegade House of the Landsraad had devastated the capital of the Corrino Padishah Empire, Salusa Secundus, with atomics and rendered the planet essentially uninhabitable.
For "The Steel Commando" he worked with staff artist Alex Henderson, who had worked on strips such as "Spot the Clue with Zip Nolan" for Lion.
Soundtrack Although no soundtrack album was released at the time, El DeBarge had a chart hit with the single "Who's Johnny (Theme from Short Circuit)".
Kaiser Sigma was designed with the idea of being more "messy" than the original design of the character.
In my sequel, The Humanoid Touch, I tried to work out an alternative." Reception Fantasy Literature said, "It is a finely written, suspenseful, action-packed yarn that is at the same time chock-full of interesting scientific speculations.
Nigel Sheldon is briefly mentioned to have headed to another galaxy as the Void problem ultimately renders the Milky Way doomed.
The Living Force (also known as a spirit or life essence) is the energy generated by all living things.
The Star Wars films illustrate that characters not familiar with the particulars of the Force associate it with mysticism and magic, such as when an Imperial officer alludes to the "sorcerer's ways" of Darth Vader.
Personality and motivations Rhodes is moralistic relative to Stark, divesting Stark Industries from nuclear technology as CEO over objections from the board and taking action against foreign nations without regard for legalities.
The alien race encountered in the original movie is later developed in SG-1 as the Goa'uld, the dominant evil power in the Milky Way.
He was said to rarely forget a formula if he heard it recited, and he was said to be able to learn a language in a matter of days.
After Clay destroys the Book of Monsters, Monstrox survives as a cloud-like being called the Cloud of Monstrox.
Steven Cook, writing for the Council of Foreign Relations, noted that a tipping point is only obvious after the fact, and pointed to the counter-example of the 2009–2010 Iranian election protests.
23 October: Supporters of Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad threw their shoes at opposition leader Mehdi Karroubi as he visited Tehran during the 2009 Iranian election protests.
March 19, 2008 Thousands of anti-war protesters marched through Washington, D.C., on the fifth anniversary of the U.S.-led 2003 invasion of Iraq, some splattering red paint on government offices and scuffling with police.
The comic artist Brad Neely's reinterpretation of Harry Potter, Wizard People, took Warner Bros.' first Harry Potter film, The Sorcerer's Stone, and substituted the original soundtrack with a narration that casts the hero as a Nietzschean superman.
The Iraqi Intifada (Arabic: انتفاضة العراق) was a series of national strikes and violent protests against the ruling Hashemite monarchy and the Anglo-Iraqi Treaty.
After World War I broke out in 1914, the mainstream suffragette movement suspended its protests in order to focus on the war effort.
See also Affirmative action in the United States Reverse discrimination Whites Only Scholarship White privilege White backlash == References ==
In other countries, legal observers are associated with such groups as Liberty (UK), Green and Black Cross (UK), the Scottish Community & Activist Legal Project (SCALP) (Scotland), and others.
The fire, which was subsequently called the Yongsan Disaster (Korean: 용산 참사; Hanja: 龍山慘事; RR: yongsan chamsa) or Yongsan Tragedy, caused six deaths and injured 23 people.
The woman in the photograph was revealed to be Danielsson by the press in 2014, in the midst of debates over the installation of a statue as a public memorial of the confrontation.
Die-ins are actions that have been used by a variety of protest groups on topics such as animal rights, anti-war, against traffic violence, human rights, AIDS, gun control, racism, abortion, and environmental issues.
This is what's needed if we’re going to turn things—these huge crises facing the planet—around." The film features figures including bell hooks, Naomi Klein, Bill McKibben, Judy Rebick and Rebecca Solnit.
It was reported that as the kiosk owners had lease contracts and had made no breaches, the municipality had reached an agreement with them on the conditions of the dismantling - specifically, an agreement to compensate the dismantled kiosks by providing new ones on a new location.
September 30 – March for Racial Justice; March for Black Women October 7 – National Popular Vote March for 2020 2018 January 19 – March for Life 2018 - The annual March for Life protest through Washington, D.C., in dissent of the decision made in the 1973 Supreme Court case Roe v.
The procedures, processes and ground rules were discussed and agreed upon collectively by the Assembly during their first meeting on 6 August 2011 based on a Consensus decision-making process.
Walkouts have often been staged against the presence of a speaker or the content of an in-progress speech at a meeting.
Christian chose November 5 because of its association with Guy Fawkes, who tried to blow up the British House of Lords and bring Catholic rule back to the United Kingdom, but was captured on that date in 1605.
However, the mere presence of a counter-protest is not always sufficient to shift public attitudes; the specific strategy plays a decisive role.
Ridicule is a micro-level tactic involving the mocking or trivializing of the opposing group to diminish their standing.
This prohibition applies only if there are disturbances of public order at demonstrations, or if there is an immediate danger of such disturbances.
Death Al-Hawaiti was shot dead by Saudi security forces after he refused to hand over his property for the mega project on the Red Sea.
Aftermath In the days following the incident, the Harakat Tahrir's founder Muhammad Bassiri and other Harakat Tahrir activists were hunted down by Spanish security forces.
As noted by one observer, Brum wished to hand over "People's Lands," which consisted of the purchase by the State of properties "to transfer them to the families of farmers and rural workers in general, under advantageous conditions for their exploitation." At the time newspapers reported that “Dr.
On March 3, 2020, a group of Primera Línea was rounded up and detained by Carabineros enforcing the newly drafted law.
Arrests The day after the incident, multiple Brimob officers fired their weapons towards the sky in front of Abepura's military base, injuring three civilians.
Examples United States In the United States, noise demonstrations have been used outside police departments and prisons, as well as outside events such as political rallies or campaign events.
These demonstrations against the war were mainly organized by anti-war organizations, many of whom had been formed in opposition to the invasion of Afghanistan.
Those gathered at Mons Sacer demanded the restoration of both the plebeian tribunes and the right to appeal, as they had been suspended during the term of the decemviri.
As of 14 February, her family had decided to take her off life support, but had not finalised the timing.
By 10:30 in the evening, two men and a woman were suspected of being recognized in plain clothes and were stopped at the entrance of the shopping mall near Lung Poon Court.
Previously, an attack in 2009, which killed five UN workers, led to temporary relocation of workers to Dubai.
The proliferation of such image generation algorithms coincided with the release of GPT-3 and development of GPT-4, advanced large language models which produce highly convincing text.
(The gate to the plaza is not often closed, except during a typhoon strike.) Three people were arrested for assaulting security guards.
Secondary school students, families with children, and elderly people had turned up to join the march.
After the breakup of the group in the park and elsewhere, the Occupy movement has focused on "more intellectual, less visible projects, like Occupy Farms, fighting debt and theorizing on banking".
State Department that said that Chinese and Hong Kong officials had systematically damaged Hong Kong's democratic system in the past year and caused the deterioration of Hong Kong's business environment.
She assisted in organizing and being hailed as the de facto spokesperson by Canadian media for the Occupy movement protest known as Occupy Vancouver in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada and holds a B.A.
Buycott.com also queried consumer activists for scanned product information when the database was missing product descriptions or other information.
Disruptive picketing Disruptive picketing covers a wide variety of pickets: Obstructive picketing which significantly physically narrows or stalls the flow of persons, goods or services into and out of the business.
It was despite too high injury rates related to lifting and too high mortality rates due to working with heavy, sharp equipment.
Türkan Feyzullah (Bulgarian: Тюркян Фейзула, romanized: Tyurkyan Feyzula) was a young Turkish child who died when Bulgarian security forces opened fire on a group of people protesting against the forceful assimilation policies of the time.
Welfare subsidies come for example under the forms of Planes Trabajar, which consist in 20 hours per week "contracts" used by public institutions and paid 150 pesos (less than US$50) a month.
In the 1970s, the National Farmers Organization started working with processors and the food and feed industry to secure supply contracts in all the commodities they represented.
McNulty, whose exhortations to the crowd were enough to temporarily quell or distract that mob, while sheriff's deputies removed the constable and the Dalzells from the rear of the second house and placed them in a transport coach.
In 2016 Asplund was included on the BBC's 100 Women list, alongside Alicia Keys, Ellinah Wamukoya and Nadiya Hussain.
So, people who criticize the piqueteros may agree with the need to provide relief for the poor and unemployed, but disagree on the form of the demands.
Notable boycotts Although the term itself was not coined until 1880, the practice dates back to at least the 1790s, when supporters of the British abolitionists led and supported the free produce movement.
The Spanish authorities called in the Spanish Legion who opened fire on the demonstrators, killing at least eleven people.
A second decree issued the following year entrusted the National Women's Council with the patronage of that shelter and the administration of the "Quinta de Menores;" a new service for the same street minors.
Shula Pesach (Tnuva's head economist) conducted a study, and concluded that Tnuva could increase prices by at least 15% without harming public demand, although Dr.
Meanwhile, plebeian farmers, many of whom had fought in the war, found difficulty in repaying debts incurred with these wealthy patricians.
Protesters opposed the Trump administration and its billionaire backers including Elon Musk, accusing the administration of rolling back labor rights and targeting immigrants.
Prayer services for Mya were held at the Mandalay University of Foreign Languages and Yangon City Hall on 14 February.
Ho was acquitted of resisting three other police officers who had twice pepper-sprayed her, with Principal Magistrate Ada Yim Shun-yee saying that this had been inappropriate use of force.
In August 2001 he joined participants for a roving exploration of usable food found in Tribeca dumpsters; they were accompanied by a TV crew from PBS's Life 360.
His work made me spend unnecessary money to get access to the website that is supposed to be free...
In January 2023, the House of Lords overturned plans to increase police powers to allow them to restrict protests by 254 votes to 240 and added a clause restricting protests within 150 metres of an abortion clinic.
1977: 1977 Pakistan uprising, movement against Zulfikar Ali Bhutto protests against the dictatorship of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Most organized consumer boycotts today are focused on long-term change of buying habits, and so fit into part of a larger political program, with many techniques that require a longer structural commitment, e.g.
In professional sports in the United States and Canada, the National Football League, Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, and the National Hockey League have all experienced lockouts.
Mahatma Gandhi's methods, which he called satyagraha, did not involve confrontation and could be described as "removal of support" without breaking laws besides those explicitly targeted.
One of Greenpeace's tactics is to install banners in trees or at symbolic places like offices, statues, nuclear power plants.
As zaps and other activism began opening doors for nascent gay organizations like NGTF and the Gay Media Task Force, these groups became more invested in negotiating with the people within the mainstream power structures rather than in maintaining a tactic they saw as being of the outsider.
Starting in the morning, citizens outside Sogo Department Store in Causeway Bay offered flowers to mourn.
on the evening of 8 March over 70 people took part in a spontaneous march from Dame Street to a nearby Garda station on Pearse Street in protest of the removal of the camp.
A large number of plainclothes and riot police are on alert near the different exits of Causeway Bay Station.
In October 2025, several protesters pleaded guilty to federal charges of providing material support to terrorism.
Police noted that Ramos was a relative of a known figure inside the underworld known as "El Fayo." Career Elidio Ramos Zárate worked for El Sur for 10 years as a crime journalist before he was killed.
Tactics Direct action protestors may perform activities such as: Some protestors dress in black bloc, wearing black clothing and face coverings to obscure their identities.
At 1:22 am on the 20th, the curtain wall of an adjacent commercial building caught fire after being hit by a Molotov cocktail thrown by protesters.
The large number of people who lost consciousness because of heat syncope overwhelmed emergency medical technicians.
Anti-fascist collectives placed plaques on up to four occasions at the Metro stations where Carlos Palomino had died, but they were always vandalised.
The first National Day of Mourning demonstration was held in 1970 after Frank "Wamsutta" James's speaking invitation was rescinded from a Massachusetts Thanksgiving Day celebration commemorating the 350th anniversary of the landing of the Mayflower.
References External links Occupy Faith, United States Occupy Faith, United States - 2011 National Gathering (video) Occupy Faith UK Archived 2020-02-29 at the Wayback Machine, United Kingdom
In 2020, a noise demonstration was held outside the White House to disrupt a speech by President Donald Trump.
When she was sentenced, Robinson had to be carried into the courtroom on a stretcher because she refused to walk.
On 16 November 2023, Russian artist Aleksandra Skochilenko was sentenced to seven years of imprisonment for replacing supermarket price tags with antiwar slogans in 2022.
Bibliography Let Me Stand Alone, collected writings and memoirs of Rachel Corrie published in January 2008 by W.
Later, when the burns become severe, nerves are burnt and the self-immolator loses sensation at the burnt areas.
During marches and press statements in front of the Council of Europe and the ECtHR, calls were renewed for forcing Turkey to implement ECtHR judgments and for the release of political prisoners.
Their actions led to peace in Liberia after a 14‑year civil war and the election of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, country's first female head of state.
Some few of the mob did still chase and jump onto the sides of the coach as it swiftly fled the scene, but were clubbed off by the constables.
See also Doxing Online shaming Notes External links Publicly exposing abusers through targeted demonstrations @ New Tactics in Human Rights.
Some of the 50 protesters in Olympia had signs reading "delete the port" and broke windows in the Downtown Historic District.
James Park Almost two weeks after the protest began, occupiers still maintained their unlawful presence in St.
March: Reference to moving from one location to another; to distinguish from rotating or walking in a circle with picket signs (which is a picket).
The short-term demands called on the state, including the police and the judiciary, to properly investigate and prosecute the guilty in five specific cases which took place immediately prior to the movement’s start.
On hearing the shotgun's report, large portions of the celebrants advanced down the mountain to find Van Houghton shot dead.
Al-Huwaiti's funeral was held near the village of al-Khoraibah and was well attended despite the presence of Saudi security forces.
According to an official report by the DR Congo government, 36 people had been killed and 170 wounded during the protests by August.
Police fired a tear gas shell into Daudi's stomach at close range.Photos of fragments of Daudi's blown-up body hit the Internet less than one hour after the incident.
Deceptive détournements are when already significant elements such as a major political or philosophical text, great artwork or work of literature take on new meanings or scope by being placed in a new context.
If he'd stopped at this point, he may have only broken her legs, but he continued forward, which pulled her underneath the bulldozer.
The pair of white vertical banners were hung inside the legislative council building, and they read 「林鄭禍港殃民 月娥遺臭萬年」.
Public opinion and media coverage The Strasbourg Justice Meetings have been covered in national and international media due to their annual organization and participation from different countries.
Involved in political activism since adolescence, she collaborates with various movements around the world.
See also Art of the Umbrella Movement Umbrella Movement 2019–2020 Hong Kong protests Lion Rock Alain Robert (climber) Banner drop Blank paper protest == References ==
Demonstrators marched to the ECtHR building with banners and slogans reading “ECtHR, end injustice in Turkey” and “Delayed justice is not justice,” and submitted letters to the Council of Europe and the ECtHR.
October 16 – The Right2Know March for Genetically Engineered Foods (GMO) to be labeled in the United States.
Conflict with Saudi government In April 2020, Al-Hawaiti and other residents were being pressured by the Saudi government to give up their properties and accept financial compensation for a proposed mega new city named Neom.
United States film maker Michael Moore attempted to get a potted ficus tree onto the ballot as a candidate for United States Representative in 2000.
However, JAM74, a coalition of community, environmental and sustainable transport groups, believed the scheme will be detrimental.
It is used as a form of civil disobedience and nonviolent resistance that encourages voicing out different opinions through certain acts such as not showing support to a certain product, attending mass parade, having symbolism, and educating and encouraging other people to join the protest.
In addition, a member of the group will begin a 12-day hunger strike to protest against the detainment.
Killing On 12 November 1991, Kamal was among those escorting the funeral procession of a teenager who had been killed by Indonesian police several days earlier.
Peasants suffered from limited funding and lacked the training and organisational capabilities of professional armies.
Response of chain stores and dairies The Israeli retail chain stores reported that sales dropped dramatically following the cottage protest and as a result several retail chains announced that they would significantly reduce the retail price of cottage cheese and cream cheese.
The 2017 May Day protests were a series of protests that took place on May Day (May 1, 2017) over worker and immigrant rights, throughout the United States and around the world.
Aftermath Some protesters later reportedly crossed over to Papua New Guinea in order to evade capture.
This ended due to a temporary restraining order issued by US Federal Judge Stephenson of the US District Court for Southern Iowa.
The petition also consisted of late artists such as Anita Mui and Leslie Cheung, with several netizens believing that the petition consisted of fake signatures.
The Court felt that the limited financial and human resources of labour unions would prevent the unchecked spread of picketing beyond the primary parties, with limited resources they felt it was unlikely the union would picket a location which has no possible impact on their labour dispute.
The specific focus of some Take Back the Night events on sexual assaults from strangers and the lack of focus on date rape, child sexual abuse, parental incest, and other such forms of victimization has attracted criticism from a broad group of commentators such as Megan Greenwell of Good Magazine.
A convergence center is a central place for information and meeting to serve participants during large and manifold protest or other alternative activities at summits.
2010s In 2010, a paperback book was thrown at President Barack Obama by the book's author hoping that the president would read it.
The group was pinned down by gunfire and had to leave Ortega and others wounded unattended for several minutes.
1972 New York City An early version of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 was vetoed by President Richard Nixon in October 1972.
A 1964 incident brought negative attention when two members were crushed under the rear wheels of a cattle truck.
Détournement is similar to satirical parody, but employs more direct reuse or faithful mimicry of the original works rather than constructing a new work which merely alludes strongly to the original.
This started a series of ever larger and angrier demonstrations all around Syria through March and April, with security forces firing on demonstrators resulting in hundreds of deaths.
They believe there is a climate of rising intolerance in the country under the present central government (NDA Alliance).
During the 2013–2014 Bulgarian protests various accusations were made against groups of protesters and counter-protests being paid.
Nursey album, or the Collections of Photographs of Old Congress Party: KL Nursey, is a compilation of documentary photographs captured by an anonymous person.
A loyalty shift in the military toward the opposition was the second most likely outcome, though an all-out coup occurred in only six of the forty protest events analyzed in the study.
Ten months later, a group of protesters dressed in carnival outfits and again calling themselves the Pink and Silver bloc, or Pink Fairies, used the term "tactical frivolity" to describe their own methods when protesting at the 27th G8 summit in Genoa.
1997: Lawyers' movement protests against the government's attempts to remove the Chief Justice of Pakistan.
Abdul Rahman, Vairamuthu, Tamilanban, Muhammed Metha, Melanmai Ponnusamy, Puviarasu, Nanjil Nadan, S.
In addition to Gandhi, various others used the hunger strike option during the Indian independence movement, including Jatin Das, who fasted to death, and Bhagat Singh and Batukeshwar Dutt in 1929.
When protests are part of a systematic and peaceful nonviolent campaign to achieve a particular objective, and involve the use of pressure as well as persuasion, they go beyond mere protest and may be better described as civil resistance or nonviolent resistance.
On 4 June 2020, the National Anthem Bill passed its third reading, with 41 legislators in favor of it and 1 against.
Though there were indications in early September 2014 that the protest law would be amended, this ultimately did not happen.
Matthew being the largest of locations mobilized for the effort demonstrated many of the Occupy Mutual Aid values and projects side by side that were once on display at Zuccotti Park in 2011.
She co-authored They Can't Represent Us!: Reinventing Democracy from Greece to Occupy (Verso Books, 2014) and co-edited, with Colectiva Sembrar, Pandemic Solidarity: Mutual Aid during the COVID 19 Crisis (Pluto Press, 2020).
See also 100 Women (BBC) The Woman with the Handbag External links Article in Swedish evening paper Expressen, with the above mentioned photograph of Asplund == References ==
Description Mooning of the Mount Washington Cog Railway trains is most commonly done by thru-hikers, as they pass by on the Appalachian Trail.
In 1931, news of the growing Indian independence movement reached Samoa, partially inspiring the Mau movement.
A protester said that the topics discussed in the summit are not those that any young person would be interested in.
Paid protesters or professional protesters are people who participate in public outrage or objection in exchange for payment.
The investigation revealed that the bullet was shot from a distance of 100 feet and struck Nawaz in the shoulder before traveling to his chest.
Inquiry In September 2009 an inquest was held surrounding Hemsworth's death, Hemsworth’s wife Colette showed photographs of John shortly after his beating.
In early 1936, a series of smaller, brief sit-down strikes from at Firestone, Goodyear, and Goodrich from 28 January through 14 February presaged a larger conflict.
It was a battle where the Shia Amal Movement and the Druze Progressive Socialist Party decisively defeated the Lebanese army and the Multinational Force present in Lebanon that supported it.
Over a decade passed before those responsible for the murders committed under the regime of Jorge Rafael Videla were brought to trial for their alleged crimes.
During the autumn of 2007, eight hikers were arrested and were to be charged in a federal court, as the act took place in a National Forest.
The three UN staff workers who were killed were Swedish human rights officer Joakim Dungel, Romanian political affairs officer Filaret Motco, and military advisor and Royal Norwegian Air Force officer Lt.
Hong Kong has always been treated as its own independent region and has always been eligible since the program began in 1995, but China has never been eligible from the start.
Pepsi successfully applied for an interlocutory injunction to prevent employees from picketing at the secondary locations.
The opposition distanced itself from the guarimbas, Coordinadora Democrática, though opposition officials controlling certain areas refused to disperse demonstrations.
Political protest Regarding self-immolation as a form of political protest, the 14th Dalai Lama said in 2013 and 2015: I think the self-burning itself [is a] practice of non-violence.
In the states of Queensland and Western Australia mining is a large industry that is often met with protests and public demonstration.
Tens of thousands of people signed manifestos that were published in newspapers, including prominent figures in politics, culture, journalism and trade unionism, and even a member of the church.
She is perhaps most remembered for her methods of nonviolent resistance, which were deployed in sit-ins and other pro-integration demonstrations throughout the latter part of the Civil Rights Movement.
Protests expanded from major road-blocking pickets, to blockades of important streets in, or just outside, cities, as well as bridges and accesses to economically critical spots (for example, directly in front of major stores and supermarkets).
Mondelez asked the worker's unions to take pay cuts to make up the $46 million difference between production in the US and Mexico.
External links Official website Why The #Occupy Movement Is An Environmental Movement November 4, 2011 TreeHugger
The failed assassination attempt prompted Israeli officials to bar access to the Temple Mount — a 14-year first — after security assessments were made.
She has reported on and campaigned against human trafficking and violations committed by global resource corporations.
In December 2007 the inquiry was adjourned for the fourth time at the request of the Highways Agency who requested time to adjust their correct their traffic modelling, the inspector commented that it was the fifth iteration of the traffic model since the original announcement in February 2006.
In 1913 the Prisoners (Temporary Discharge for Ill Health) Act 1913 (nicknamed the "Cat and Mouse Act") changed policy.
It was partly inspired by Missouri congressman Todd Akin's "legitimate rape" and pregnancy comments.
Notably, the first formal, nationwide act of the Nazi government against German Jews was a national embargo of Jewish businesses on April 1, 1933.
The latest social media posts on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter were all also before the end of 2016.
The July massacre, which took place during the July uprising in Bangladesh, resulted in significant casualties, including protesters, opposition members, and civilians.
However, this protest coincided with opening of the autumn session of the parliament and concerned the slow pace of recovery from the Icelandic financial crisis.
Kwai Tsing District Councillor Leung Kam-wai argued that it was unreasonable for the police to arrest the protesters and that their behavior with by passers was unprofessional.
A non partisan group known as The Concerned Ghanaians for Responsible Governance is said to have organised the protest to ask government to solve corruption, infrastructure decay, worsening economy, the deteriorating economic conditions in the country, among other things.
Facing resistance from administration and police, the group established an encampment in Harvard Yard after a march on November 9, 2011.
During the visit of Tamim al-Thani to London in 2018, a paid protest took place outside Downing Street.
After World War II, the land was not returned to the First Nation, Camp Ipperwash was used for training cadets until 1995.
The United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) asked the activists to leave the buffer zone on 14 January 2012 claiming that the occupation did not meet United Nations' regulation for activities in the buffer zone, but it did not employ any forceful methods for the evacuation of the area.
During the eviction, at around 7:20 AM, a fire started in a temporary structure on the rooftop, engulfing the rooftop within minutes according to witnesses.
In July 2017, Maria Victoria Barros, a member of the state assembly in Paraná and daughter of Ricardo Barros, Health Minister during Michel Temer's government, had eggs thrown at her during her wedding as she left the church.
We refuse to accept the artificially high levels of unemployment and reduced working conditions which have been forced upon us by the Architects of Globalisation.
Pre-2023 2023 2024 2025 2026 See also Gaza war protests Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Lists of pro-Palestinian protests == References ==
Her refusal to pay taxes caused her to be sentenced to a year of imprisonment, but she used the process as an opportunity to engage in nonviolent protest.
Still, the practice continues to occur; for example, some Teamsters contracts often protect members from disciplinary action if a member refuses to cross a picket line.
Moazzem Hossain was a Pakistan Navy Lieutenant Commander and an accused in the Agartala Conspiracy Case.
All three MPs cited their experience in Nonviolent civil disobedience in their contributions to the Second Reading debate.
South Korea 8,000 workers and students participated in a rally in a park in Seoul, calling for an end to layoffs and wage cuts.
In particular, Krugman cited a 2005 Congressional Budget Office report indicating that between 1979 and 2005 the inflation-adjusted income for the middle of the income distribution rose 21%, while for the top 0.1% it rose by 400%.
So as part of their strike, the employees picketed at retail stores that sold Pepsi products and the homes of Pepsi's management.
The app advised them about purchasing from corporate entities - and their affiliates - that endorse policies which conflict with those campaigns.
Safaa started receiving threats to discourage him from participating in demonstrations and civil protests.
The Véry bombing became the first deadly attack of the Ère des attentats, killing two people and wounding at least one.
Overall, the occurrence is seen as the most violent of a series of similar disorders that took place throughout the U.S.
Spain In Spain, since November 2011 there is also a campaign named A-pagón: No pagues centrales nucleares y de carbón (A-pagón: Don't pay for nuclear and coal-fired power stations) related to the avoiding of the augmentative term "pagón" which could be translated as "big payer".
On 1 March 2022, Russian state media censorship agency Roskomnadzor threatened to block Wikipedia over the Russian Wikipedia article on Russia's invasion of Ukraine (Russian: Вторжение России на Украину (2022)).
Photographs of his self-immolation circulated around the world, drawing attention to the policies of the Diệm government.
In 2018, black ink was thrown onto the face of Pakistan's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Khawaja Asif.
Sidney Fine cites the protest form as being echoed and replicated in both the lunch counter sit-ins of the African American civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s, and in the university occupations of the 1960s.
Demonstrations at Mexican consulates On October 30, more than 200 protesters convened outside the Mexican consulate in New York City to deplore the killing of Will and others and to demand an end to the violence.
In the decades that followed World War II, there was much less unemployment in the UK and throughout the industrialized world, due in part to the Keynesian Revolution.
Violation of the ban entails, according to § 19a.b of the Law, imprisonment up to six months, repeated offenses one year or a fine.
Effectiveness While radical activism has been effective as part of the civil rights movement, forceful or violent environmental sabotage (FVES) can have a "negative impact on voter attitudes toward all environmental organizations", though that effect is contingent on the organizations' prior record.
The February 6 Intifada or February 6 uprising in West Beirut took place on 6 February 1984 during the Lebanese Civil War.
The Chicago factory was considered critical to Mondelez's success because of the unique workforce and strategic Midwest location.
In the UK, "It is important to understand that there is no right to strike in UK law." Employees who strike risk dismissal, unless it is an official strike (one called or endorsed by their union) in which case they are protected from unlawful dismissal, and cannot be fired for at least 12 weeks.
At the climax of the protests in June 1960, hundreds of thousands of protestors surrounded Japan's National Diet building in Tokyo on nearly a daily basis, and large protests took place in other cities and towns all across Japan.
Pre-2023 2023 2024 2025 2026 See also Gaza war protests Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Lists of pro-Palestinian protests Notes == References ==
Reportedly 500 members from the Irish Women Workers' Union attended the funeral and the union used the occasion as a show of strength.
He is also a member of and frequent lead presenter and discussant at numerous other international reproductive societies, including the Argentine Society of Reproductive Medicine.
Some of those embryos were successfully implanted, and the others were kept in the Center's cryogenic nursery for future implantation.
20α-DHTG has potent progestogenic activity, with peak levels of this metabolite occurring at 2 to 4 hours following administration of trengestone and with a biological half-life of 8 to 14 hours.
XX male syndrome is another cause of sterility, wherein the sexual determining factor on the Y chromosome (SRY) is transferred to the X chromosome due to an unequal crossing over.
The federal government does not track the number of births by sperm or egg donation, and there is no registry.
Ethinylestradiol also has the advantage that it does not interfere with the measurement of serum levels of endogenous estradiol.
One of these drawbacks is that the extra duration of the procedure is longer, ranging between 1.5 and 5 hours.
Genetic testing: once the fertilized embryos have developed into the blastocyst stage, the embryos undergo preimplantation genetic testing (PGT) to test for the correct number of chromosomes to minimize the risk of genetic mutation.
Some define success as when rare/occasional non-motile sperm are observed (fewer than 100,000 per millilitre).
However, in the past this was either not possible or was not always routinely undertaken where a woman gave birth or had an abortion and she may have trouble carrying a child later in life.
Reproductive surgeons can potentially perform a reverse vasectomy to restore male reproductive function following the vasectomy.
Assisted zona hatching is a procedure of assisted reproductive technology, mainly used in IVF, which assists zona hatching.
After obtaining his M.R.C.O.G (and later, the F.R.C.S.) in 1964 in England, he was appointed to the post of Professor and Head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in Singapore, a post which he held for 25 years.
Osborndale Ivanhoe, who was probably the most famous Holstein bull of the early semen era, died in November 1963.
HCG versus GnRH agonist Final maturation induction using GnRH agonist results in a substantial decrease in the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
In the closed vitrification system, samples are placed in a sealed device before being immersed in liquid nitrogen.
Roman Catholicism proscribes the procedure on much the same grounds as in vitro fertilisation, namely the rights of the unborn.
Selective reduction of twins was very controversial at first but has gradually become more accepted.
Time of initiation The time for beginning luteal support can be put in relation to various events: In IVF, generally somewhere between the evening of oocyte retrieval and day 3 after oocyte retrieval, with weak evidence indicating that 2 days after oocyte retrieval may be optimal.
Collection condoms are sterile and made from silicone or polyurethane, as latex is somewhat harmful to sperm.
A haplotype map is thus created, not only exhibiting genes the offspring will contain, but also the parental origin of the genes.
The very next day, Whitehead went back to the Sterns and demanded that the baby be given back to her.
Advantages Once a panel of associated genetic markers has been established for a particular disease it can be used for all carriers of that disease.
This is due to the fact that it is more difficult for the doctor to locate all the sperm with such a significant optical increase.
It is therefore a model for a minimal genome, that is, a genome that is reduced to mostly essential genes.
(Fertility protection in leukemia patients), information of the European Leukemia Information Center (ELIC) of European LeukemiaNet (in German language)
CRISPR/Cas9 is an effective way of manipulating the genome in vivo in animals as well as in human cells in vitro, but some issues with the efficiency of delivery and editing mean that it is not considered safe for use in viable human embryos or the body's germ cells.
Zygote intra fallopian transfer (ZIFT) is an infertility treatment used when a blockage in the fallopian tubes prevents the normal binding of sperm to the egg.
Research and clinical applications of MRT were overseen by laws made by federal and state governments.
This chronic inflammatory state can lead to fibrosis that is a commonly seen in endometriosis, often presenting as adhesions.
The main regimens to achieve ovulation suppression are: GnRH agonist administration given continuously before starting the gonadotropin hyperstimulation regimen.
The spermatozoon is selected at higher magnification; the aim of this is to improve the chance of pregnancy.
Lee's team at the Wellington pioneered the first UK practise of gamete Intra-fallopian transfer (GIFT), The GIFT of Life (a technique invented by Ricardo Asch in the United States).
In Australia and New Zealand, a training program in reproductive endocrinology and infertility takes 3 years, and is offered in 15 centers across the two countries.
These polymorphic markers are able to distinguish between embryos that carried normal, balanced, and unbalanced translocations.
After medical school at Harvard Medical School and training in general surgery and critical care, Suffolk native, Dr.
DH appears in conversations about family, sexuality and relationships within Muslim, LDS, and Jewish online communities.
Indications Ovulation induction helps reversing anovulation or oligoovulation, that is, helping women who do not ovulate on their own regularly, such as those with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
One potential issue is the necessity to make sure the partner who donates the egg is a legal parent of the child.
The main medications used for induction of final maturation are human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and GnRH agonist.
He does not recognize her, as he was abducted and locked in a small room for 15 years (20 years in the remake).
In 2000 the Center implanted a frozen-thawed embryo from the highly endangered African wildcat into the uterus of a domestic house cat, resulting in a healthy male wildcat.
This AI-based software relies on artificial vision to extract features not identifiable with the use of conventional microscopy.
The endometrium is believed to not be optimally prepared for implantation following ovarian hyperstimulation, and therefore frozen embryo transfer avails for a separate cycle to focus on optimizing the chances of successful implantation.
Fertility preservation, such as ovarian tissue or oocyte cryopreservation, may also be used to prevent infertility, as well as birth defects, associated with advanced maternal age.
They treated the first couple in the United Kingdom in 1988 and the first IVF surrogacy child was born in 1989.
Subsequently he served in occupied Japan as part of the first naval line officer to enter Nagasaki, left the Navy as a lieutenant commander.
In 1983, Alan Trounson and Linda Mohr reported the first pregnancy which used embryo cryopreservation (frozen human embryos).
Three days after the birth, the infant was handed to the Sterns, who renamed her Melissa Elizabeth Stern.
Purpose and goals The Donor Sibling Registry (DSR) was founded in 2000 to assist individuals conceived as a result of sperm, egg or embryo donation who are seeking to make mutually desired contact with others with whom they share genetic ties.
According to a 2002 study, egg donations had a 38% success rate in cases of women past their reproductive years.
Weight loss also generally results in improved menstrual regularity and pregnancy rates in women with PCOS.
The proposed complaint cites negligence, constructive fraud, battery, breach of contract, breach of express warranty, and negligent hiring or retention as to defendant and reproductive endocrinology associates.
In addition to being noninvasive and relatively pain free, Coculture can be performed during a short office visit.
Similarly to TESE, an incision is made in the scrotum and surface of the testicle to expose seminiferous tubules.
The procedure involves taking thousands of pictures of the growing embryo in vitro during incubation to study morphology and morphokinetic parameters.
GIVF headquarters are in Fairfax, VA, US, and its facilities include locations in Pennsylvania, Minnesota, California, and Texas in the United States, as well as in China, Mexico, and several other countries.
After freezing the straws were placed in 95 °F water and thawed for 60 seconds before being placed into a stainless steel gun.
"Methods of semen collection in an ambulatory greater one‐horned rhinoceros (rhinoceros unicornis)." Zoo Biology 9.3 (1990): 211-221.
This central image is surrounded by other figures, including a centaur, the piercing of the evil eye, and the demon's daughter, winged and reptile-tailed, identified by an inscription.
The saliva salt crystal formation is known as "ferning", due to the visual similarity to a fern plant under the microscope as the saliva dries.
The sample obtained after washing is analysed, usually using the PCR technique, to check that there is no viral particle.
History of transboundary shipment of sterile insects Transboundary shipment of sterile insects has taken place on a continuous basis for 60 years (since 1963).
Parker's concurrence and Christian nationalism Chief Justice Tom Parker's concurring opinion rested heavily on Christian principles, leading to concern about his overall approach to judiciary duties.
Furthermore, ovarian tissue is fragile under hard freezing conditions and putting it back into the body carries the risk of re-introducing cancerous cells.
In addition the patient will need to take hCG (as with other less invasive treatments such as ovulation monitoring and intrauterine insemination) to time egg collection as well as progesterone pessaries to supplement the body's progesterone levels.
The sperm–cervical mucus contact test is an in-vitro slide test used for detecting antispermal antibodies.
Drawbacks Due to the very low temperatures required, varying levels of stress are put on the DNA samples.
The effects of tubal flushing with either type of contrast media beyond six months are unknown and more research is needed to see if there is a difference in contrast media when used for tubal flushing in laparoscopy with chromopertubation.
See also Azoospermia Intracytoplasmic sperm injection Percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration Semen cryopreservation == References ==
Exposure to any of the temporary factors can cause up to a three-month delay before sperm quality returns to normal, due to spermiogenesis.
Thrombophilia Thrombophilia is a condition which makes the blood more likely to clot and this increases cardiovascular risk, meaning the individual is at higher risk of heart attacks, strokes or DVTs.
Personal life Cline has four children, including Donna and Doug, with his wife, Audrey, in addition to the 94 other children conceived by artificially inseminating women with his own sperm without their knowledge or consent.
Pronatalism advocacy The Collinses are prominent figures within the pronatalist movement, which advocates for higher birth rates as a means to address demographic and economic challenges.
At the end of the luteal phase, there is a slight rise in FSH that seems to be of importance to start the next ovulatory cycle.
This allows the sperm to be examined in greater detail, including the nucleus which contains the sperm's genetic material.
"Immunosuppressive activity in human IVF culture supernatants and prediction of outcome of embryo transfer".
Names In one magic-related text, the archangel Michael confronts Abyzou and compels her to tell him the 40 names that can control her.
History Introduced in 2001, the intracytoplasmic morphologically selected sperm injection (IMSI) procedure changed the perception of how a spermatozoon suitable for fertilization (via injection into the egg) should appear.
Indications Sometimes, some embryos have a thickened or deformed zona pellucida that makes it difficult for them to come out and, therefore, can lead to implantation failures.
PGH provides a more feasible method of gene location than whole-genome association experiments, which are expensive and time-consuming.
Experimental options include testicular tissue banking, in which testicular tissue is surgically removed and frozen.
He was Chairman and Director, In Vitro Fertilisation Program Melbourne Family Medical Centre Monash University 1978–86, where he carried out most of his pioneering work in this field.
Electroejaculation has also been used for the cryoconservation of animal genetic resources, where semen is stored in low temperatures with the intent of conserving genetic material and future revival.
In men who have the necessary reproductive organs to procreate, infertility can be caused by low sperm count due to endocrine problems, drugs, radiation, or infection.
Trengestone is excreted 41 to 46% in urine and up to 30% unchanged in feces, suggesting that a significant portion of the medication is not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract.
The postcoital test (PCT), also known as the Sims test, Hühner test , Sims–Hühner test, or cervical mucous penetration assay is a test in the evaluation of infertility.
During a HSG procedure, the uterus is injected with contrast dye, which can be observed via fluoroscopy.
The central conflict is built on several dichotomies: between the Apollonian and Dionysian, the technocratic Northern Europe and underdeveloped Mediterranean region, and the rationalist idealism of Postchristianity and materialist philosophy of ancient Greece.
Potential role in vascularization of solid tumors Elevated FSH receptor levels have been detected in the endothelia of tumor vasculature in a very wide range of solid tumors.
Society and culture There are a variety of social stigmas that surround male infertility throughout the world.
It is also necessary to perform a biopsy on these embryos in order to obtain material on which to perform the diagnosis.
It should not be confused with Kurzrock–Miller test, where there is interface between the two materials; whereas in this test the materials are thoroughly mixed.
Oncofertility is a subfield that bridges oncology and reproductive research to support fertility preservation in cancer survivors.
Recruited to Chicago in 1981 as chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at Mount Sinai Hospital and professor of obstetrics and gynecology and immunology/microbiology at Rush Medical College, he was put in charge of rebuilding an academic teaching department in the inner city.
Research also investigates ethical issues in oncofertility, such as the decision-making process for adolescent children and their families.
The Collinses are currently the managing directors of the corporate wholesale travel agency Travelmax.
Auditors from KPMG Peat Marwick investigated the clinic and found that almost $1 million in income at the clinic had not been reported.
Incisions are then made through the outer covering of the testis to retrieve biopsies of seminiferous tubules, which are the structures that contain sperm.
Over his career, he has received three national and four internationals research awards, including the IVI award 2007.
However, important characteristics of sperm such as DNA integrity remain untested by these conventional methods.
Potential candidates White rhinoceros Over the years, concerns over population declines of the northern white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum cottoni) have increased with the increasing value of their horns to poachers.
When compared with FNA of the testis, conventional TESE is 2-fold more effective at identifying sperm in men with non-obstructive azoospermia.
Oncofertility also encompasses reproductive issues after cancer treatment, such as family planning, complex contraception, hormonal management throughout survivorship, surrogacy, and adoption.
In 2018, it was reported that DNA testing has led to a significant increase in donor-conceived people finding their siblings and sperm donors.
Donor options According to a survey by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, 54% of fertility patients want to preserve their remaining embryos for future use.
BMT by Todd was a 1994 case of the Indiana Supreme Court which, in a 4–1 decision, ruled that a custodial parent cannot bargain away a child's right to financial support even with a pre-sexual intercourse contract.
The scientists have already extracted cells from a Sumatran tiger, which could be used for artificial insemination.
Gene expression profiling of cumulus cells surrounding the oocyte and early embryo, or on granulosa cells, provides an alternative that does not involve sampling from the embryo itself.
The suction device must maintain a pressure of -140 mmHg (necessary to aspirate rapidly, but not enough to damage the follicles) and a temperature of approximately 37 °C.
Jewish religious law frames the conflict primarily as one between the principle of burying the body whole (i.e.
An engaged couple in South Africa, who had been together for five years and were expecting a child, discovered that they were brother and sister just before their wedding.
The chances of a couple to successfully conceive at an advanced age depend on many factors, including the general health of a woman and the fertility of the male partner.
Therefore, ovarian culture systems have become increasingly widely used in reproductive biology and toxicology.
The partnership made Prelude the largest fertility services provider in the U.S and added Aspire Fertility clinics to the Prelude Network.
There are potential considerations for concurrent IVF, including increased costs and potential stress from two childbirth deliveries.
Azoospermia in these patients could be a result of Y chromosome microdeletions, cancer of the testicles or damage to the pituitary gland or hypothalamus, which regulate sperm production.
This embryo-mother communication is finely regulated by numerous cellular pathways, including epigenetic mechanisms.
The parameters for evaluation at day 2-3: Number of cells and division rhythm: The optimal number of cells is 4 at day 2 and 8 at day 3 (A quality).
This goes beyond the traditional father–mother model, and the third party's involvement is limited to the reproductive process and does not extend into the raising of the child.
Male genetic abnormalities The quality of the sperm that fertilizes an egg is a key contributor to the overall quality of the embryo.
Functional studies of the missense mutations revealed impaired transcriptional activation of NR5A1-responsive target genes.
More recently, some Catholic authors have seen the Creighton Model FertilityCare System, a technique based on the search for the restoration of fertility as a way to obtain a natural conception, as a morally licit alternative to other assisted reproduction techniques such as IVF.
Psychological People trying to cope with involuntary childlessness may experience symptoms of distress that are similar to those experienced by bereaved people, such as health problems, anxiety and depression.
Achievements Main achievements of the institute in the area of research have influenced and significantly improved the reproductively of cattle, buffalo and sheep through: Improving reproductive potentials of farm animals.
In 2009, he was commissioned to deliver the Patrick Steptoe Memorial Lecture in honour of the prominent British obstetrician and gynecologist before the British Fertility Society.
According to NICE guidelines, oral ovarian stimulation agents should not be given to women with unexplained infertility.
Unknown to Anand, Nandita becomes pregnant with his child, but since she is unmarried and does not know the father, Nandita's father forces her to give up the baby for adoption.
Several packaging techniques are used for sperm cryopreservation, each with its advantages and disadvantages: Cryo-tops (Cryovials or Cryotubes) Advantages: Provide a good surface for sample identification.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist/antagonist conversion with estrogen priming (AACEP) protocol.
For example, in Illinois, the courts employ at least two clear approaches to determining how embryos are allocated in the event of a divorce or separation of the parties.
High frequency of STRs or SNPs in alleles of affected individuals in comparison to their unaffected direct relatives indicates the origin of a disease causing mutation.
Around the time of ovulation, a conception cap or cervical cap is filled with semen and placed on a woman's cervical os for several hours to maximize the time the semen is available to fertilise a waiting egg.
Primary human endometrial endothelial cells were found to internalize miRNAs into vesicles and actively secrete large amounts of exosomes.
Once the alleles that correlate with a mutation are characterized, PGH of the embryos is possible and only embryos carrying the low risk haplotypes are selected for transfer.
Limitations Although morphokinetics has its advantage in terms of selecting embryos for implantation, the technology is unable to deselect all abnormal embryos.
Genetic parents entering an embryo adoption program are offered the benefits of selecting the adoptive parents from the agency's pool of prescreened applicants.
In November 2020, a northern California woman sued her former fertility doctor Michael Kiken for having falsely inseminated her with his own sperm forty years prior.
In organisms that reproduce sexually, embryonic development is the part of the life cycle that begins just after fertilization of the female egg cell by the male sperm cell.
The use of high magnification for morphological sperm selection prior to ICSI has been associated with higher pregnancy rates and lower miscarriage rate.
In sexual evolutionary biology, especially in sexual selection, fecundity is contrasted to reproductivity.
A systematic review and meta-analysis concluded that prophylactic treatment with cabergoline reduces the incidence, but not the severity of OHSS, without compromising pregnancy outcomes.
This procedure is used frequently with large mammals, particularly bulls and some domestic animals, as well as humans who have certain types of anejaculation.
FSH is synthesized and secreted by the gonadotropic cells of the anterior pituitary gland and regulates the development, growth, pubertal maturation, and reproductive processes of the body.
Since HyCoSy is performed using transvaginal ultrasound, it is less invasive than chromopertubation.
Increases the penalty for deception involving the identity of a person or the identity or quantity of property to a Level 6 felony if the offense involves a misrepresentation relating to: (1) a medical procedure, device, or drug; and (2) human reproductive material.
Mrs MacLennan claimed that she had conceived the child through artificial insemination and that she had not committed adultery.
There is good and consistent evidence of benefit in ultrasound guidance, that is, making an abdominal ultrasound to ensure correct placement, which is 1–2 cm from the uterine fundus.
These cervical caps are designed for conception and are different from the cervical caps used for contraception, although these may also be used as conception devices.
The cost of reciprocal IVF is more than IVF due to additional costs including donor sperm fees, legal fees, and fertility medications.
One of the biggest problems in women who have to undergo chemo- or radiotherapy is premature ovarian failure (premature ovarian insufficiency) and its associated infertility.
Critical OHSS includes enlarged ovary, tense ascites with hydrothorax and pericardial effusion, hematocrit > 55%, WBC > 25,000, oligoanuria, creatinine > 1.6 mg/dl, creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min, kidney failure, thromboembolic phenomena, and ARDS.
MacLennan v MacLennan 1958 SC 105 is a Scots a family law decision that ruled that artificial insemination does not constitute adultery for the purposes of divorce.
References External links "Revolutionary new technology will allow more couples to benefit from preimplantation genetic diagnosis".
Administration of enough GnRH agonist to compete with the antagonist will result in release of FSH and LH which subsequently increases the release of Estrogen.
Germany tightened its conditions for public funding in 2004, which caused a sharp drop in the number of ART cycles carried out, from more than 102,000 in 2003 to fewer than 57,000 the following year.
For example, depending on how a country handles healthcare costs and health insurance, the cancer survivor may have to pay directly for the cost of storing frozen sperm.
The technique was lauded for its environmental attributes: it leaves no residues and has no (direct) negative effect on nontarget species.
Doing so reduces the possibility of conceiving twins or triplets, thus allowing parents to exercise greater control over their vision for their families.
In 2024, approximately 90% of fertility clinics participated, though the results are susceptible to manipulation by cherry picking couples with a higher chance of conception.
Osmotic stress occurs when ice crystals form inside the nucleus during the freezing process, causing differing osmotic pressures within the cell.
The production of eggs, which in females is usually low, can be increased through hormone treatment to obtain 10–20 oocytes, dependent on the species.
Parkes and two British scientists, which involved the use of glycerol to preserve animal sperm during freezing and thawing.
There are a few frozen zoos across the world that implement this technology for conservation efforts.
Natural Cycle IVF is in vitro fertilisation (IVF) using either of the following procedures: IVF without the use any ovarian hyperstimulation drugs.
Asch was defended by students, and colleagues, including Robert Edwards, who accused the media of convicting him before he was charged.
It is administered as either multiple 0.25 mg daily subcutaneous injections or as a single-dose 3 mg subcutaneous injection.
In addition, cetrorelix can be used to treat hormone-sensitive cancers of the prostate and breast (in pre-/perimenopausal women) and some benign gynaecological disorders (endometriosis, uterine fibroids and endometrial thinning).
The ovaries of young mice (19–23 days) are removed and halved, and follicles are identified under a microscope.
The world’s first baby born as a result of directly injecting a single sperm into the centre of an oocyte was conceived at Bourn Hall.
Located in Norfolk, Virginia, in the Ghent neighborhood and adjacent to Downtown, the hospital serves as the Hampton Roads region's only Level I trauma center.
Documentary filmmaker Barry Stevens has stated "it's possible he [Bertold Wiesner] didn't tell his wife and she believed the donations were coming from a lot of different men".
The technique was used to eradicate the melon fly from Okinawa and in the fight against the tsetse fly in Africa.
Success of IVF In the US, ART cycles started in 2006 resulted in 41,343 births (54,656 infants), which is slightly more than 1% of total US births.
Pre-implantation genetic diagnosis Pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD or PIGD) is a procedure in which embryos are screened prior to implantation.
Other uses of MRT In 2018, researchers announced the use of MRT to restore function to heart tissue in cardiac-compromised newborns.
A high powered microscope is used to pick out and the best sperm cells which are then used in a traditional ICSI protocol.
In 1982 was appointed as founding editor-in-chief of The Journal of In Vitro Fertilization and Embryo Transfer (JIVF-ET), holding this position for approximately 20 years.
Stem cell therapy Several experimental treatments related to stem cell therapy are not yet routinely used in reproductive medicine.
He was appointed medical director at Bourn Hall Clinic, Cambridge, in the UK in March 1989 following the death of Patrick Steptoe in 1988.
However, Mrs MacLennan could not provide the court with any proof of her taking artificial insemination.
The number of pregnancies obtained from an individual donor in each country where his sperm is exported will be subject to any local or national rules which apply.
g., from stallions and canids), prostate massage, artificial vagina, penile vibratory stimulation (vibroejaculation) and electroejaculation.
IMSI is a method that can be chosen by for anyone who has failed IVF cycles in the past, and for couples who have a component of male infertility.
Some well-established medical tourism and IVF countries such as the Czech Republic, Ukraine, Greece, and Cyprus offer egg freezing at competitive prices.
Case studies for the productivity of these incentives on dairy farms have shown to have positive results.
Recipients As with the repository's criteria to accept sperm donors, its criteria for women to receive sperm from the bank were not as high as initially reported.
These involve injections into each cow with a measured amount of progesterone or progestin and waiting 5-7 days, or until heat signals occur, before moving onto different impregnating methods such as joining the cows or heifers with a bull.
This is an advantage because PGD methods such as FISH are able to reveal whether an embryo will express the phenotypic difference, but not whether an embryo may be a carrier.
The natural position of the tubes allows an easy approach (unlike the Lap and Dye procedure) At the end of the procedure a full hysteroscopy is performed Published papers show that Fertiloscopy, even without its inherent salpingoscopy, is fully equivalent to full laparoscopic investigation.
Women should be counseled on established options such as embryo banking in which hormonal stimulation causes the production of multiple eggs, which are removed, fertilized by sperm, and frozen for future use.
Anand tries many times to speak with Nandita, even going to one of his remote sites where a building is being constructed and pretends to make blank calls to his house, with his wife answering each time, getting annoyed at what she believes is a person prank calling her home.
The Birmingham Women's Fertility Centre at Birmingham Women’s Hospital, Birmingham, England, formerly named the "Assisted Conception Unit", is one of the UK's leading medical centres for infertility treatment and care.
Together with geneticist Markus Hengstschläger he reported Austria’s first preimplantation diagnosis (polar body biopsy).
At the peak of his career, he was the secretary-general of the Asia and Oceania Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (AOFOG) and the president of the International Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology.
The bill's co-sponsor Senator Tammy Duckworth urged action on the bill in light of the Alabama court ruling.
See also Gynography Gynoroentgenology Obstetric ultrasonography Sonosalpingography Vaginal ultrasonography Air polymer-type A References External links Information about Sonography Fertility and Gynaecology Academy
For example, if you have 12 individuals in an age class and they produced 16 surviving young, the Fx is 16, and the mx is 1.336.
PGH also has an advantage over fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in that FISH is not usually able to make the differentiation between embryos that possess the balanced form of a chromosomal translocation and those carrying the homologous normal chromosomes.
2 years later, in 1985 the society for assisted reproductive technology (SART) was founded as a special interest entity within the American Fertility Society.
Marine energy management is the application of systematic methods to measure, register and analyze the energy usage of oceangoing vessels in specific.
Private Power and Infrastructure Board The Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB) was created in 1994 to promote private sector participation in the power sector of Pakistan.
See also Community solar farm Community wind energy Economic democracy RAPS Soft energy path Wadebridge Renewable Energy Network a solar farm entity in Aus/ NZ; who create and facilitate co-op owned community renewable energy farms.
The Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA) is a group of 188 countries, cities, regions and organisations aiming to accelerate the coal phase-out of coal-fired power stations, except the very few which have carbon capture and storage.
Johnson Texas Railroad Commission United States energy law References External links Official Central Texas Electric Cooperative website
With more traffic potentially taking the route around the Cape of Good Hope, and ships needing to fuel along the African coast, some ports such as Walvis Bay, Cape Town, and Durban may come under increased pressure, but also benefit from the diversion.
This required, upon written notice from the National Environment Agency, to report annual waste data and submit waste reduction plans.
The organization began with 16 founding member countries and has since expanded to 31, with the latest addition being Lithuania in 2022.
While, as per Khan et al., developing VO2 is difficult, their review found that "recent research has focused on simplifying and improving the expansion of techniques for different types of applications".
Trudeau’s proposed plans for the Constitution Act of 1982; he argued against granting Ontario and Quebec veto powers, fought for provincial resource rights and insisted on the notwithstanding clause.
Some cities and landmarks took the opportunity to make more long-term adjustments to their everyday power consumption.
See also Footnotes External links ECCM Study for rail, road and air journeys between main UK cities Traction Summary Report 2007– Prof.
Example: New UK nuclear plants cost £92.50/MWh, whereas offshore wind farms in the UK are supported with €74.2/MWh at a price of £150 in 2011 falling to £130 per MWh in 2022.
According to the OECD Economic Survey of Norway 2010, the nation "has announced a target for 2008–12 10% below its commitment under the Kyoto Protocol and a 30% cut compared with 1990 by 2020." In 2012, EU-15 emissions was 15.1% below their base year level.
This is planned in countries such as Denmark and Israel; however, some countries, such as Israel, have no legislation on the subject.
This plan is accompanied by supporting funding for infrastructure and ZEV rebates totaling $10 billion.
Methods and techniques Design techniques include: Shade with trees Planting trees for the purpose of providing shade, which reduces cooling costs.
At the same time, a Transport Ministerial conference was held, resulting in a formal announcement on 14 November, supporting the framework of the EU TRACECA programme.
LCEC also receives support from the European Union through a contract signed with the Central Bank of Lebanon.
In 2024, COGEN Europe reported a turnover of approximately €410,000, of which €107,756 came from EU grants.
The Centre for Research on Energy Security (CeRES) is an Indian research center housed at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) focusing on Indian relations to energy and consequences on itself and the world, diplomatically, economically and socially.
Iranian Oil Terminals Company Pars Special Economic Zone Naftiran Intertrade Company (Nico) Iran fuel conservation optimization company Revenues from crude oil Iran's total revenues from the sale of oil amounted to $77 billion in Iranian year 1387 (2008–09).
Criticism and limitations Critics argue that energy justice may lack conceptual clarity due to its interdisciplinary nature and normative foundations.
WorldWideENERGY.org (WWE) After the previous ETDE consortium ended in 2014, the WWE application allowed ETDEWEB and other content to remain accessible, thanks to remaining funds and former member country support.
History Announced on June 24, 2009, Microsoft Hohm was built on the Windows Azure cloud operating system.
History The ministry was originally established in 1978, where petroleum and energy affairs were transferred from the Ministry of Industry.
When the computer is turned on the RAM is restored and the computer is exactly as it was before entering hibernation.
The white certificate concept is an offshoot of the more mature renewable energy credit or "green tag" trading.
This organization created the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating system, which is a certification process that provides verification that a building is environmentally sustainable.
Energy justice frameworks are increasingly applied in the context of global energy transition and climate change mitigation to address inequalities in access to affordable, reliable, and clean energy services .
Thermal energy is often recovered from liquid or gaseous waste streams to fresh make-up air and water intakes in buildings, such as for the HVAC systems, or process systems.
They were concerned that the Strategic Energy Efficiency and Renewables Reserve would be used for "politically connected pet projects," citing a similar fund created by the Carter administration that went bankrupt after only a few years.
Strategic crude oil storages are at three underground locations in Mangaluru, Visakhapatnam and Padur (Udupi, Karnataka).
Concentrating Solar Power - supports the development of novel CSP technologies that will lower cost, increase efficiency, and improve reliability compared to current state-of-the-art technologies.
These polymers have high concentrations of tiny pores, which scatter light effectively at the boundary between the polymer and the air.
It is based on the latest BP Statistical Review of World Energy and establishes an IOGP Production Indicator© (PI) – the level at which a region is able to meet its own oil or gas demand – for seven regions across the world.
In 2008 the global price of oil plummeted from $145 /barrel to $32/barrel and many energy projects left the province or were shut down in Alberta.
References External links IOGP website EPSG Geodetic Parameter online Registry Archived 2020-08-09 at the Wayback Machine
Of this 33 billion, €30.9 billion was used to advance climate action and energy transformation, while the remaining €2.1 billion was used to cover indirect carbon costs.
The effort has been part of a wider effort by the groups involved to bring attention to environmental issues.
The Iranian Revolution and the subsequent 1979 oil shock led to a sudden reduction in oil available on the market.
The decrease was composed of a $5 billion per year decrease in gas royalty partially offset by increases in oil royalty and oil sands royalty.
As 2016 continued, the oil glut was partially trimmed with significant production offline in the United States, Canada, Libya, Nigeria and China, and the basket price gradually rose back into the $40s.
The department was established on 1 July 2022, superseding the water and environment functions from the Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment and energy functions from the Department of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources.
Energy Democracy began in western Europe between 2000 and 2010 and has become a worldwide practice and point of reference except Asia.
Jordan Jordan has strategic oil reserves equal to 60 days of consumption or 6,240,000 barrels (992,000 m3).
PPIB facilitates investors in establishing private power projects and related infrastructure, executes Implementation Agreement (IA) with Project Sponsors and issues sovereign guarantees on behalf of government.
Function The competences of MOE are as follows: Drawing and implementing studies, plans, and policies for ensuring the optimum exploitation of oil and gas wealths.
Accordingly, all that can be expected is that the techniques and disciplines used to ensure safety are enough to reduce accidents to acceptable rates.
oil needs via a major domestic biofuels industry, which could result in an economic boost for the rural regions that would supply the plant material for biofuels.
Any vehicle space consumed by a larger size of accumulator vessel may be offset by the need for a smaller sized charging engine, in HP and physical size.
The regulations state that "The associated hydraulic fracturing will not take place within protected groundwater source areas".
Co-operation with other bodies IOGP also represent the interests of the upstream industry before international regulators and legislators in UN bodies such as the International Maritime Organization and the Commission for Sustainable Development.
The very early developments in this direction started in the late 1950s and early 1960s in the United States and Sweden.
The initial goal set forth by the SunShot Initiative is to reduce carbon emissions to 20% of what they were at their highest recorded levels in 1990, by 2050.
Insulated pipes (called also preinsulated pipes or bonded pipe ) are widely used for district heating and hot water supply.
These sources shall not merely be for a limited period which shall be exhausted over a span of time but the pollution caused by them shall also contaminate the surrounding environmental components such as soil, air and water.
The nonbusiness energy property credit expired on December 31, 2017, but was retroactively extended for tax years 2018 and 2019 on December 20, 2019 as part of the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (2020 United States federal budget).
Rosenfeld’s main motivation for improving energy efficiency was to save money as well as save resources such as oil, gas, and forests for future generations.
On this occasion, the Ministerial Council also established a High Level Reflection Group, which was mandated to assess the adequacy of the institutional set up and working methods of the Energy Community in achieving the objectives of the Treaty.
These country policy reviews are typically conducted every five years for member countries, and cover the full range of the country's energy systems and policies, with recent reports placing particular focus on progress towards reaching climate goals.
The outer ring demonstrate a life cycle of the energy system with starting with extraction of resources necessary for supply, the production of energy, operation and supply which refers to the disbursement of energy, consumption and then finally decomissioning and waste management.
Emergency oil sharing agreements Several countries have agreements to share their stockpiles with other countries in the event of an emergency.
National targets The following table lists the indicative targets for each of the 15 original member states, and for comparison the share of renewable electricity in 1997 as well.
By December 7, 1935, forty-five lawsuits on behalf of more than 100 companies had been filed in 13 different U.S.
In the past, the IEA has been criticized by environmental groups for underplaying the role of renewable energy technologies in favor of nuclear and fossil fuels.
However, the uneven distribution of fossil fuel supplies among countries, and the critical need to widely access energy resources, has led to significant vulnerabilities.
The State Committee for Power and Electrification was upgraded to ministerial status (union-republic) in 1965; changed to all-union on 17 July 1987.
Driving style and weather conditions can be accounted for by using the achieved range instead of the advertised range for the calculation.
Divest Harvard Divest Harvard is an organization at Harvard University that seeks to compel the university to divest from fossil fuel companies.
Foreign Service in 1978 and his early assignments included Vienna, Austria; Baghdad, Iraq; Johannesburg, South Africa; and Sana'a, Yemen.
The main focus of this research trip was to learn about the economics and reliability of the technology.
It included an introductory paper browsing the issues of concern and collect a series of technical documents, namely those produced within the ASIEPI project as well as within the SAVE-DUCT and AIRWAYS projects.
The introduction of mandatory renewable energy targets is one important way in which governments can encourage the wider use of renewables.
The purpose of this initiative is to support the development of the ESCO working in the energy audit business and provide them with the suitable financial, fiscal and technical incentives to remove all the obstacles hindering their growth.
A teardrop trailer is an aerodynamically shaped semi-trailer with a curved-roof that differs in shape from the traditional rectangularly shaped trailer.
governments signed a memorandum of understanding in which the Spanish Ministry of Housing committed to organise and host a Solar Decathlon in Europe.
While some groups and parties such as the AfD again tried to overturn them, others such as the Greens advocated for a national phaseout of diesel cars by 2030.
Legislative background In 1955 Monroney's Senate Interstate and Foreign Commerce subcommittee investigated dealer practices that hid a car's true price behind inflated "list" figures and undisclosed fees.
Prepare studies and plans which the process of development required and modernization of the ministry and with a view to keeping pace with The developments oil industry and mineral resources in the world.
In the warmer months the previously heated water is taken from the short-term storage tank to the Borehole Thermal Energy Storage (BTES).
In addition to overall building standards the code defines the Climate Zones used in building, shown in this picture.
Some methods of reducing emissions of the industry include lowering speeds of shipping (which can be potentially problematic for perishable goods) as well as changes to fuel standards.
The Uranium Mill Tailings Remedial Action (UMTRA) Project was created by the United States Department of Energy (DOE) to monitor the cleanup of uranium mill tailings, a by-product of the uranium concentration process that poses risks to the public health and environment.
Coordination among the institutions, and enterprises of the ministry, and work to resolve all differences.
Specific rules and regulations A common definition is that the vehicle must have been left on private or public property for a minimum duration (≥ 24 hours) or it hasn't been reclaimed after being impounded after a minimum number of days.
Microsoft Hohm was an online web application by Microsoft that enabled consumers to analyze their energy usage and provided energy saving recommendations.
Indicator 7.2.1: Department of Economic and Social Affairs-Statistics Division (DESA/UNDP), International Energy Agency (IEA) and International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA).
A hard but flexible layer of rigid foam is then created and seals all the tiles to each other and to the steel structure.
According to EN 253:2019 & EN 15698-1:2019, pipes must be produced to work at constant temperature of 120 °C (248 °F) for 30 years.
Businesses and analysts criticised the uncertainty this caused for investors, notably Balfour Beatty and Ernst & Young.
In 2016, newly elected president Htin Kyaw combined Ministry of Electric Power and Ministry of Energy as Ministry of Electricity and Energy.
One of the key benefits of the EPI investment mechanism to the end beneficiary is that they only pay a proportion of the value achieved resulting in a reduction in their energy costs.
The savings in energy costs are often used to pay back the capital investment of the project over a five to twenty years period or reinvested into the building to allow the capital upgrades that may otherwise be unfeasible.
The Ministry of Energy and Electrification (Minenergo; Russian: Министерство энергетики и электрификации СССР) was a government ministry in the Soviet Union.
Transparency, comprehensibility, and reproducibility The use of open energy-system models and open energy data represents one attempt to improve the transparency, comprehensibility, and reproducibility of energy system models, particularly those used to aid public policy development.
This results in less energy being used, less money being spent, and less demand for new resources to be created.
These enable performance comparison between different parts of a company and between participating companies.
Microsoft's Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows 10 and Windows 11 employ a type of hibernation (Fast Startup) by default when shutting down.
EN 253 describes "District heating pipes - Bonded single pipe systems for directly buried hot water networks - Factory made pipe assembly of steel service pipe, polyurethane thermal insulation and a casing of polyethylene".
There is an ongoing significant construction boom in Finland based on old and high energy demand construction standards since the energy cost payment is paid by the users and future generations but not the construction industry nor its leaders early retirement payrolls.
It has been a generally accepted principle that, given these constraints, MELs could not be cost-effectively monitored or managed by means other than product selection decisions and occupant conservation methods.
The Bush administration considers the passage of the law a benchmark for the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.
The fossil fuel system is global and requires a global solution—a solution the Leaders' Climate Summit must work towards.
History and profile The ministry was established on 12 March 2010 and is the successor of the ministry of energy and mineral resources.
This figure is expected to rise to 6.5 million b/d by 2022, since Baghdad and the oil companies have agreed to boost crude-oil production in the country.
Committees Committee of Atomic and Energy Supervision and Control of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan; Committee of Environmental Regulation and Control of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (transferred to the new ministry).
See also List of energy storage projects References External links Drake Landing Solar Community Retrieved on September 30, 2009 Drake Landing Solar Community: Workings Retrieved on September 30, 2009
Semi-trailer aerodynamic devices are devices affixed to semi-trailers, for the purpose of reducing aerodynamic drag caused by air turbulence.
His quest for the right candidate(s) to take over the newspaper stretched around the world, gathering more than 140 applicants from half a dozen countries.
Four Deputy Assistant Secretaries also oversee different divisions of the bureau, namely Energy Diplomacy, Energy Transformation, Energy Governance and Access, and Bureau Implementation and Coordination.
The ratings are based on EPA's formula, in which 33.7 kWh (121 MJ) of electricity is equivalent to one (U.S.) gallon of gasoline, and the energy consumption of each vehicle during EPA's five standard drive cycle tests simulating varying driving conditions.
It originally included some experimental evacuated-tube solar panels, but they were not needed and were later removed.
The people of Mumbai also observed such a programme, added the group." Appeal to switch off lamps for eight minutes today Archived 2011-07-18 at the Wayback Machine Aug.
In a joint ruling issued in May 2011 the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and EPA established the new requirements for a fuel economy and environment label that is mandatory for all new passenger cars and trucks starting with model year 2013.
Better networking between districts and the capital district is also an incentive for communities to adopt this concept.
It is one of the oldest virtual energy discussion fora for discussion, sharing of insights and intelligence of relevant issues related in a significant way to oil, gas and energy issues: Policy, legislation, contracting, security strategy, climate change related to energy.
Brick or stone masonry reinforced with steel bars can be utilized for walls that will be subjected to lateral or vertical pressure from earth cover.
It was created on January 27, 1987, in Lagos, Nigeria, to serve as a platform for cooperation and harmonization of efforts, collaboration, sharing of knowledge and skills among African oil producing countries.
The International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) is a building code created by the International Code Council in 2000.
The tokens can be used to pay electricity bills, buy energy-efficient appliances and take public transport.
He subsequently worked as a stringer in the London bureau of Newsweek in the early 2000s, where he reported and wrote on a range of stories in the United Kingdom and Western Europe.
The negotiations took place between the European Community on one side, and Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, FYR of Macedonia, Republic of Montenegro, Serbia, Romania, Turkey and UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo on the other side.
In 2022, the United States Department of Energy started purchasing uranium to establish a federal reserve of domestically produced material.
The platform's main activities include producing and disseminating policy-oriented publications, networking among local or national airtightness associations, and organizing conferences, workshops and webinars.
The Ministry of Energy is the government ministry of Tanzania which is responsible for facilitating the development of the energy sectors.
Eventually, the Sharif administration entered in successful negotiation with China for the construction of the Chashma Nuclear Power Plant in 1993.
Other occupational stressors include heat, stifling uniforms and poor-quality food served in the company mess.
Campaign organisation The campaign was started by Exnora International, a non-governmental organisation in India.
2) To create awareness among masses about the importance, benefits and methods of conserving petroleum products & clean environment by enhancing information and capacity building.
According to energy blogger Ron Patterson, the peak of world oil production was probably around 2010.
Wall Street Journal, January 14, 2009 U.S.-United Arab Emirates Memorandum of Understanding on Nuclear Energy Cooperation, State Department Resources on the United Arab Emirates Nuclear Energy Program Archived 2015-12-08 at the Wayback Machine Voice of America News, December 12, 2008
OPEC bargained with the dominant oil companies (the Seven Sisters), but OPEC faced coordination problems among its members.
Grant Shapps, the final secretary of state for the old department, became the first Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero.
To get precise results from an efficiency calculation, all the data associated with the data center must be included.
In tests done in their laboratory in 2004 they found no improvement in engine efficiency or fuel economy.
However, access was also available through commercial online hosts, and some countries offered their own products for access.
Renewable technologies can enhance energy security in electricity generation, heat supply, and transportation.
An oil clique is a social clique or a network of powerful individuals and institutions that are involved in the petroleum industry.
A 2014 paper outlines the modeling challenges ahead as energy systems become more complex and human and social factors become increasingly relevant.
There are several voluntary programs that require a minimum airtightness level for the building envelope (Passivhaus, Minergie-P, Effinergie etc.).
One of the tools most commonly used for this is the CUSUM, which is the CUmulative SUM of differences.
17) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which consolidated arrangements for the licensing, operation and abandonment of offshore installations and pipelines.
Solar Process Heat (Task 64), Solar Energy in Industrial Water and Wastewater (Task 62), Solar Process Heat for Production and Advanced Applications (Task 49), Solar Heat for Industrial Process (Task 33) solar district heating, e.g.
Furthermore, the greater interconnectedness of networks has allowed for markets to be more able to respond to peak energy demand and thereby increase the security of energy networks.
Required information Manufacturers must affix the label to a side window or windshield before the vehicle leaves the factory.
The PSA shall issue statements to its superior government ministry regarding matters which are under consideration and provide assistance to the ministry when requested.
Cekuta testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on September 17, 2014, and was confirmed on December 16.
The CETF stated its primary goals include managing telecommunication mergers and helping strengthen the broadband Internet infrastructure of California, with saving energy an indirect result of its procedures.
The broader term negawatt was popularized by experimental physicist Amory Lovins in 1985, who argued that utility companies should "sell efficiency" rather than just electricity.
Symens, Presentation at the Model-Driven Development Day, May 9, 2012, 's-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands "Towards a mechatronic compiler," H.
The Ministry of Energy and Minerals (MEM) is the governmental body in the Sultanate of Oman responsible for developing and implementing the government policy for exploiting the oil and gas resources in Oman.
Indeed, at a deep enough point underground, the temperature remains constant year round, and this temperature is approximately the mean of summer and winter temperatures.
REPEAT REPEAT stands for Rapid Energy Policy Evaluation and Analysis Toolkit and is a policy assessment energy model.
The delegation of Azerbaijan had a meeting with Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud, during which cooperation in the energy sector was discussed.
This led to persistent fuel shortages, strikes by government workers, and a worsening economic environment.
History Central Texas Electric Cooperative was formed in 1947 as a split-off from neighboring Pedernales Electric Cooperative.
Decathletes from 17 Teams spent 10 days competing in the Villa Solar near the Royal Palace of Madrid (Palacio Real).
Nogaholding was intended to concentrate and refocus NOGA's oil, gas, and petrochemical development activities.
Currently the cooperative has almost 7,000 miles of line, serving over 46,000 meters in the Texas Hill Country counties of Blanco, Gillespie, Kendall, Kerr, Kimble, Llano, Mason, McCulloch, Menard, Real, and San Saba.
The company's stated objective is to demonstrate the operational viability of electric aircraft and support the development of charging infrastructure at regional aerodromes.
Another publication: “Methods and techniques for airtight buildings” was released in 2012, with an overview to the design principles and construction methods for building airtightness.
JBPS publishes articles of the highest quality that are original, cutting-edge, well-researched and of significance to the international community.
Research staff survey market trends and activities, analyze technical and economic potential for energy efficiency, seek to understand consumer energy decisions, and assess the potential for regulations, policies, and programs to achieve energy savings.
Now in the 21st century, building energy performance standards are pushing towards a zero carbon standard in old and new buildings alike.
The SunShot Initiative is a federal government program run by the US Department of Energy's Solar Energy Technologies Office.
That December, the Paris Agreement was adopted at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21) and the Agency transitioned into direct advocacy for the shipping industry to adopt greener alternatives to hydrocarbon fuels.
This updated IRP envisaged that the first new nuclear power plant would only need to be online by 2041.
Its functions were split into three new departments: the Department for Business and Trade, the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero, and the Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology.
Power Information Technology Company (PITC) PITC (Power Information Technology Company) is a leading public sector IT organization in Pakistan, operating under the Ministry of Energy (Power Division).
The water, energy and food pillars within this index are equally weighted, thus emphasizing the multi-centric nature of this framework.
Required LEED Levels for Select Colleges These are 10 colleges all around the US determined to build for a sustainable future.
A budget made of €1.6 billion of ordinary credits and €1.15 billion of alternative financing is devoted to the implementation of the measures, for the whole 2010-2014 period.
Throughout his career, he was a counselor and lobbyist for both domestic and international oil and gas companies, as well as companies focusing on renewable energy.
The state's installed capacity reached the 10,000 MW target in early 2010, 15 years ahead of schedule.
The Energy Star program is the largest certifier of low-energy homes and consumer products in the U.S.
Dehumidifying Drying – These types of dryers circulate hot and de-humidified dry air onto the resin, suck the air back, dry it and then pump again in a closed loop operation.
However, The European Commission monitors the progress of the member states of the European Union – and will, if necessary, propose mandatory targets for those who miss their goals.
In another move, ENEL also bought 66% of the Slovak Electric utility that operates six nuclear reactors.
Effectiveness Studies based both on modelling and experiments have demonstrated modest improvements in energy losses through the walls of houses through this method.
The second is to reduce the vast amount of waste created when cars reach the end of their life cycle – as older cars or those written off after a road traffic accident are typically scrapped.
However, organisations that are looking to make their systems more energy efficient to support them on their journey to reducing their carbon emissions, may consider making changes to the way their systems run.
Dynamic frequency scaling almost always appears in conjunction with dynamic voltage scaling, since higher frequencies require higher supply voltages for the digital circuit to yield correct results.
Substituting saved natural gas for oil in uses where they’re interchangeable, such as furnaces and boilers (pp.
It bills itself as a national effort to support solar energy adoption in order to make solar energy affordable for all Americans.
The curved shape of the roof decreases aerodynamic drag by smoothing airflow over the top, thus improving fuel efficiency.
The Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (DESNZ) is a ministerial department of the Government of the United Kingdom.
Oktober 2007 gültig) (in German) Informationen zur EnEV 2009 (in German) Info Portal Energieeinsparung: Novellierungsverfahren des Energieeinsparrechts (in German) BEE: Klimaneutral und kosteneffizient die EnEV 2016 erfüllen.
In the attempt to control the leakage power, high-k metal-gates and power gating have been common methods.
Fuel economy for CAFE purposes include an incentive adjustment for alternative fuel vehicles and plug-in electric vehicles which results in higher MPGe than those estimated for window stickers.
This investment model is similar in principle to an Energy Performance Contract (EPC) but with the exception that no guarantees are made as to the level of energy savings.
Manning led the Social Credit to a fourth term in government, increasing its share of the popular vote further above the 50% mark it had set in the 1944 election.
Other private reserves of petroleum products for an additional 130,000,000 barrels (21,000,000 m3) The state-controlled reserves and the privately held stockpiles total about 470 million barrels by 2026 (583,000,000 barrels (92,700,000 m3) in 2002).
This air leakage is driven by differential pressures across the building envelope due to the combined effects of stack, external wind and mechanical ventilation systems.
He argued that if we are heading for some kind of disaster, it makes sense to use technology to combat this.
Klaus Savier won the 2009 Fuelventure 400 in a VariEze aircraft which got 45 mpg‑US (5.2 L/100 km; 54 mpg‑imp) at 207 mph (333 km/h) with a modified Continental O-200 engine upgraded with a computerized fuel injection and ignition system by Light Speed Engineering.
These options are summarised below: Option (A) Retrofit Isolation: Key Parameter Measurement Savings are determined by field measurement of the key performance parameter(s) which define the energy use of the energy conservation measure's (ECM) affected system(s) and/or the success of the project.
Although the industry was not a focus of attention of the Paris Climate Accord signed in 2016, the United Nations and the IMO have discussed CO2 emissions goals and limits.
It came into effect on May 1, 2004, and now governs the acquisition, use and disposal of mineral rights.
Current activities Regional SEM collaboratives have met in the Northwestern and Northeastern United States for several years, with interest expressed in other regions for similar collaborative forums.
It had previously had 'highly trusted' status for a decade, and the school's managing director blamed the issue on 'formalities and clerical errors on the side of the UKBA.' It was reinstated in the same year after a re-inspection.
"Ol' Bentz," The Bugler In the 200 plus years that musicians have been stationed at West Point, there is probably no musician more notorious, or cherished, than Private Louis Bentz.
Gilroy, Larry Kerchner, Bill Locklear, Victor Lopez, Chris McDonald, Joe Murphy, Brad Pearson, Timothy Rhea, Steve Reisteter, Jeff Simmons, Tom Wallace and Bill Wiedrich.
Since then, the group has performed at The White House, the Embassy of Singapore, Disney World, the National Cherry Blossom Festival, and for the U.S Secretary of Labor.
Starting Spring 2021, the UMMB was able to hold spring marching band outdoor rehearsals a few nights a week.
Concepts & Skills - Going through the task-oriented process of deciding how to create music using concepts from all styles and periods.
Past items include a commemorative pin from the Magic Music Days (this pin is exclusively reserved for just the participants) and a shirt with the Magic Music Days logo on the front.
The SYO was plagued with various problems including lack of funds for instruments, lack of rehearsal venues and trained wind players.
Their fall concert, the 1st Annual Michigan A Cappella Festival, was a huge success, featuring 9 of the 12 active groups on campus over two nights.
They are best known for wearing suspenders and former member Masi Oka, one of the best known alumni of a college a cappella group and actor in the television series Heroes.
Governance and people Since 2019 and as of November 2023 the artistic director is conductor and author Paul Kildea.
The foundation bears the expense of acquiring or borrowing the instruments, and recipients make semi-annual contributions to a fund that insures that the instruments are well maintained.
Virtual students can meet professors in person at the InterHarmony International Music Festival, where they can study in person.
A careful investigation of the talent and the need for a scholarship is a prerequisite for the scholarship grants.
The Tritones have performed alongside Taylor Swift at the 2010 Country Music Awards and opened for the Far East Movement.
In 2011, The Daily reported on Fleet Street's May show, calling it, "filled with the silly, goofball antics the tuxedoed singers are known for." Fleet Street is a student-led organization; the group's music director, business manager, and singers are always Stanford students.
From these commissions, one composer is selected each year by a panel of judges to receive the "Distinguished Composer Award," otherwise known as the "Composer of the Year" award.
Harrison House and Morley House exclusively house graduate students and fellows; Harrison was opened in November 2006, and Morley in 2016.
The organization focuses on children in refugee camps and in villages on the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and Southern Lebanon.
The Men's 1st VIII hold the Oxbridge record for the most places advanced during one series of bumps (either Mays, Lents, or Torpids/Eights for Oxford), advancing 13 places in the May Bumps 2001, where the crew moved up a division to division 3 and also won blades.
"Song of Peace" was published in 2009 and was dedicated to Professor Zaven Yedigharians (Father to SOL Music Ensemble, the first teacher of Bahman Mehabadi, and the teacher of many other great Iranian Violinists) .
So far, the GYSO has given nine concerts in Greece, featuring world-class soloists, and two composers have been commissioned to write new works for the Orchestra.
SOL Music owes its extension as an independent center to the professional insights of Helen Marx to this date.
James Piccadilly in central London, and in Hammersmith, where the group headlined a nationwide music competition.
He was succeeded in 1918 by Alexander Russell, who served until 1934, when the Glee Club became a responsibility of the music faculty.
A section in the site allows users to explore the composer's musical scores by integrating audio and video content to follow the score while also offering sections that explore a variety of musical concepts, such as Beethoven's use of themes and key or Stravinsky's intricate use of meter.
In 2021, the Alley Cats collaborated with songwriter Diane Warren to create a music video of her lead single from the movie Four Good Days, "Somehow You Do".
Affiliation with the Professional Children's School In March 2024, Saint Thomas Church warned that due to rising costs, it would discontinue operating the school unless it raised $50 million in endowment funds.
Recipients of these Scholarships currently include students at East Carolina University, Eastman School of Music, Juilliard School, New England Conservatory, and Princeton University.
Ethical Standards Relating to Colleagues Competition Students of NATS members have access to one of the organization's most widely recognized activities: Student Auditions.
Werner (1932–2022), University of Cincinnati – College-Conservatory of Music 1992–1994 — Fred Miller (1930–2006), DePaul University 1995–1997 — Harold M.
The Husky Band, under the direction of Bill Bissell, is credited with the invention of the Wave in 1981.
Entry to the specialist music unit or school is by competitive audition, which also effectively gives entry to the host school.
Hall is a foster parent as well and provides all children from the Foster care system services at no cost.
Peter's Basilica and of "Jubilate Deo," a song composed by the school's founder, for Pope Francis in St.
Other notable buildings of the college include the Ibberson Building, built in 1914, and named after its architect Herbert George Ibberson.
By 2006, the first set of teacher resources and case studies was published and made freely available, leading to widespread adoption across UK schools.
Such as programs for Universities Music Festival , for Mahak Charity's benefit , and for Pajoohesh Week in Tehran University and published two other albums in 2003.
PAS developed an influential list of drum rudiments called the PAS 40 International Snare Drum Rudiments, which are considered to be the current standard reference on the subject.
The band performed an after-midnight concert at the Cozzens Hotel in Highland Falls during a pouring rain.
Critical thought should be used in solving the problem, and all students are encouraged to experiment.
The effects of musical training on child development: A randomized trial of El Sistema in Venezuela.
Johnson attended an Otis Redding concert in 1967 and was inspired to translate the style of the concert into a program he could sustain at the high school in order to create opportunities for his student musicians, and thus the Kashmere Stage Band was born.
It is published by Cambridge University Press, with a scope that covers medieval music, and plainchant from the Middle Ages to the present.
Made up of University of Pennsylvania students, the group's membership constantly changes as veteran members graduate and new members enter the group through an audition process.
The school houses, Ronan, Hopperton, Mann, and Armstrong, are represented by the colours blue, yellow, red, and green, respectively.
In addition, the HMB plays at various community events around Seattle and does a full show at one local high school once a year.
IAJE was first incorporated as a non-profit on August 18, 1989, having developed from the International Association of Jazz Educators (since 1971) and the U.S.
Their 2021 album "Gemini," was nominated for Best Lower Voices Collegiate Album by the Contemporary A Capella Society (CASA).
Available programs include: "Strum & Sing" covering fundamental development, "Amigo Program" for English Learners, "Early Childhood Education" for those working with young children, and the "MIRSE" (pronounced `mercy`) for those working with Special Needs Individuals.
Founded as an alternative a cappella ensemble, the group has a tradition of highly theatrical, interactive performance and is acclaimed for creating a fun, down-to-earth atmosphere in both rehearsal and concert.
Events Athletics Historically, football championship games have been held at neutral sites mutually agreed upon by both teams, but in 2006, 2007 and 2009, both Conference 5A championship games were played at the Alamodome in San Antonio.
Soon Houman Behzadi left the Ensemble to continue his music studies in the University of Western Ontario.
In 2015, the campaign was relaunched in response to the Department for Education's proposal to implement the English Baccalaureate as a headline accountability measure in schools.
The group followed up the success of Pehchaan with their sixth album, On Detours, which was released in March 2009 and Panoramic, released in 2011.
Organization The association has a national office in Jacksonville, Florida, and is governed by a national Board of Directors.
The Musikvermittlung (Music Promotion) degree program includes majors in Music Education, Conducting, Ear Training, and Church Music.
The Royal Academic Orchestra (Swedish: Kungliga Akademiska Kapellet) is Uppsala University’s symphony orchestra.
Partnerships Since its establishment in 2006 ETM-LA has formed several partnerships with various organizations and individuals.
Publications The International Journal of Music Education is the official journal of the society and is published four times a year by SAGE Publications.
The World Flute Society (WFS), a successor to the International Native American Flute Association, is a non-profit organization dedicated to cultural flute playing from around the world.
The group’s alumni song is "Streets of Philadelphia" by Bruce Springsteen, arranged by member Andrew Callard in 1995.
He graduated with a bachelor's degree in musical education from Jacksonville State University in 1997, and he was formerly the director of bands at Henry E.
1998 Second International Symposium The Hague, Netherlands (February 6–8, 1998) - The Dancer of the XXI Century, Education for Transition in a Changing World.
Origin and development Batuta was created in 1991 by the national government of president César Gaviria as a special project of the first lady Ana Milena Muñoz Gómez with assistance of José Antonio Abreu.
The possibility of introducing a Cambridge Bachelor of Education (BEd) degree had been given as one of the reasons for the original move into Cambridge.
In addition to competing in Tournament of Bands, the 2012 MASH band competed in another marching band circuit, USBands (formerly known as USSBA).
The camp has also initiated such experiments in multi-cultural cooperation as the Blue Lake in Bavaria concert band which was formed out of a mixture of American and European junior and senior high school students to rehearse and perform together over the course of a month.
Ascension: Symphonina Rising, released in 2025, was recognized by the Hollywood Independent Music Awards, Clouzine, the LIT Music Awards, and the World Entertainment Awards.
ISPME members include professors of music, education, and philosophy at universities in Europe, Asia, Oceania, and the Americas.
Nahid Abtahi, during the years of her presence in SOL Music, also took the role of designing covers for all the albums in which she played, often using the paintings of Bahman Mehabadi.
An excerpt from History of Music at Harvard to 1972 by Elliott Forbes (Harvard UP: 1988) describes the beginnings of BachSoc: The 'Musical Club of Harvard University,' as it was called upon its founding in 1898, took on new life after World War II.
It was founded in 1874 by Andrew Fleming West '74, who later became the first Dean of the Graduate College.
During its three years of existence, more than 100 Greek musicians have been selected, after auditions, to perform with the orchestra, and over 1,500 young people have attended its educational activities.
In the early 1990s, The High Jinks dissolved and former members came together as The Bear Necessities (The High Jinks were revived in 2009).
Sachdev Scholar-in-Residence: Michael Graham Allen (Coyote Oldman) Youth Outreach Coordinator: Victoria Shoemaker Flute Circle Connection Liaison: Sandi Horton Events The World Flute Society hosts a biennial convention in Eau Claire Wisconsin.
The Rock and Roll Forever Foundation's founder board includes Bruce Springsteen, Bono, Jackson Browne, and Martin Scorsese.
Founded in 2012 by Rhona Gouldson and Archie Chen, DIPF was created in order to answer the call for a "quality holistic program of piano" in Dublin.
We know that those who posses these skills will out-perform those who don't have them and we are confident that learning to play music is the best way for our young people to acquire them.
The roof has been rebuilt for enhanced acoustics, and there are baffles to allow the acoustics to be modified.
Large Ensemble Assessment allow bands, orchestras, and choral groups to play for evaluation at district-level sites.
Additionally, TeachRock has partnered with several organizations to expand its reach, including the American Federation of Teachers, the National Education Association, the United Federation of Teachers, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, the California Department of Education, and the Grammy Museum.
Researchers state that these findings are inconclusive without long-term, large-sample, independent evaluations.
The orchestra toured Europe in 2017, making its debut at Young Euro Classic and again in 2019, under the baton of Andrés Orozco-Estrada; they have also played in Miami, Houston and São Paulo.
Students play instruments and music styles associated with specific ethnic groups or regions, such as the chonto wood marimba and vallenato music, and there are student exchanges between different parts of the country.
Approximately fifteen men met for the first time in Christmas-Saucon Hall, which was then called Saucon Hall, on October 29, 1906.
International Association for Jazz Education (IAJE), formerly a not-for-profit corporation based in Manhattan, Kansas, was a volunteer-run organization that, among other things, allocated student scholarships through its approved festivals program.
The OMEA is involved at all levels of music education in Ohio, serving more than 1.8 million public school students from 612 school districts and 51 colleges and universities.
The Bach Society Orchestra has been an official undergraduate organization of the university since the 1954–55 academic school year.
Music Makers Founded in 2007, Music Makers is an instrumental music education program within WYSO for underserved students.
It started with a handful of kids and has continued to grow from 1 program to 3 indoor color guard programs.
In addition to its original school in Hoxton, North London, pointblank now has schools in Los Angeles, Ibiza, Mumbai, Hangzhou, Shenzhen, and online.
A Chattanoogan, Mary Fleming Meek, won the $50 prize with her song entitled "On a Hallowed Hill." Although Mrs.
In September 2023, the OFJ announced the appointment of Kristiina Poska as its next music director, the first female conductor ever named to the post, effective in the summer of 2025.
Since that time the Forum has established National and Regional Advisory Committees for the project, contracted 14 composers for commissions, and retained key personnel for the positions of Music Editor and Curriculum Editor, as well as additional curriculum writers.
From the start the Theremin Center was intended to operate on a non-profit basis and most services and equipment were donated by the founders and sponsors of the Theremin Center.
The UIL is under the governance of the Vice President for Diversity and Community Engagement at the University of Texas at Austin in Austin, Texas.
In Japan, El Sistema principles have been incorporated into projects coordinated by El Sistema Japan (ESJ), a non-profit organization working in partnership with schools, municipalities, and professional ensembles.
Darling's dedication to Arts-in-Education innovation and creativity earned him the 1995 Artist of the Year Award from Young Audiences, Inc.
Purpose The idea for BandQuest began in 2000 after a national survey of music educators conducted by the American Composers Forum revealed a need for fresh music for young bands.
More than 1 million families in at least 60 countries have attended Kindermusik classes in programs worldwide.
The journal aims to encourage the interrogation and development of a range of research methodologies and their application to diverse topics in music education, theory and practice.
A teacher does not impose judgement on students' creations, but rather acts as the "facilitator of discovery." References Thomas, Ronald B (1970).
During Christmastime, groups may also perform in the front lobby of Hong Kong Disneyland Hotel and Disney's Hollywood Hotel.
While working closely with the DCSF and DCMS, the Music Manifesto remains independent of the Government.
In 2015, French journalist Pierre Fougerat produced Pianos of Dublin, a documentary about the Festival & Summer Academy from the perspectives of the participants and faculty.
The VFSS is not primarily a venue for concerts by professional performers, but a place where everyone is encouraged to participate in music.
Since then, the repertoire has grown to span the historical continuum from baroque to the contemporary.
Most recently, the group performed Owl City's "Fireflies" on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert in March 2023.
In 2013, the school was banned by the Border Agency from sponsoring non-EU nationals for offering too many places to students who failed to meet the rules.
The ensemble learned Obama's campaign theme song, Stevie Wonder's "Signed, Sealed, Delivered I'm Yours" (1970), but was forced offstage after a teleprompter was kicked during their performance.
Fleet Street was founded in 1981, as a collegiate a cappella group focused on comedy, theatricality, and barbershop harmony.
Penguins also feature heavily in the group's visual identity, appearing on the covers of eight of their eleven albums.
The school was made up of multiple weeks catering to different musical genres or periods, earlier weeks catering to older music (Renaissance and Baroque) and later weeks moving through the Classical period to Contemporary and Jazz; students could sign up for one or more weeks.
Founded in 2019 by El Sistema Sweden and the Swedish music copyright organization STIM, the orchestra consists of more than 60 students of age 11 to 19 from all over Sweden.
One of the oldest music education associations in the United States, the OMEA recently celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2007.
The campaign is supported by 100,000+ individual signatories and over 200 organisations from across the creative industries including Aardman Animations, Shakespeare's Globe, The BRIT School, The Design Council and more.
In 2008, Marsalis Jams established Marsalis Berklee Jams, an ongoing program with the Berklee College of Music that brings bands to the school’s newly created performance space Café 939.
Another tradition of the Pride is to interlock arms and sing the Alma Mater before marching to the stadium for every home football game.
The sessions not only focus on learning repertoire, but also on essentials such as ensemble skills, listening, posture and musicianship, along with advice on audition preparation.
Experience with these concepts provides a foundation for learning note-reading during the second year.
Airfare for the 50-person choir was provided by the Icelandic government, with Minister of Education Lilja Alfreðsdóttir saying, "the state often strengthens cultural events" and "this will be very good for all parties".
The Romanian Youth Orchestra (Romanian: Orchestra Română de Tineret) is the national youth orchestra of Romania.
16th–18th centuries In the city of Naples, a conservatorio was strictly a secular place for teaching and learning specializing in music education.
Workshops/Clinics Disneyland: Disneyland workshops are run by current and former Disneyland Cast Members who work professionally outside of Disneyland in the industry of the workshop they are running.
For elementary and middle school children, KMEA offers the Kentucky Children's Chorus for grades 5–6, and two Kentucky Junior High Choruses for grades 7–9: a treble chorus and a mixed chorus.
The association organized more than 7,000 teachers, musicians, producers, and others interested in jazz, from more than thirty countries.
Andra Bohnet, Rhonda Larson, Winne Clement, Eliyahu Sills, and Bryan Akipa Former Members: Xavier Quijas, Yxayotl of Guadalajara, Kevin Locke, and G.
The group sings a variety of secular and sacred Slavic choral pieces (and non-Slavic pieces from the former USSR and neighboring regions), from the 12th century onward, including folk songs of Russia and Eastern Europe.
The platform includes expanded versions of the *Just Play* and *Everyone Can Play* programmes, new projects such as *Play Now*, *Express Yourself Hip-Hop Songwriting*, and *Recreate*—an electronic-music unit supporting creativity in digital audio workstations (DAWs).
The international headquarters was in Kenosha, Wisconsin, for fifty years before moving to Nashville, Tennessee, in 2007.
On October 11, 1969, the Marching 97 went to Rutgers Stadium along with women from nearby colleges acting as cheerleaders for the first time.
Audience members toss shoes on stage if they feel particularly moved by a soloist's singing; many audience members bring multiple pairs of shoes to throw.
In 2010 instruction in music technology and in 2011 in recording technology was started in cooperation with Sibelius Academy and Hochschule für Musik Detmold.
In 2007, the choir performed Bach's Saint Matthew Passion for the opening concert of the Mexico Festival in Mexico City as well as at Saint Thomas Church.
References External links Official website ISME Archives – Special Collections in Performing Arts at the University of Maryland Edmund Cykler Collection of International Music Education Resources at the University of Maryland Libraries
In honour of Professor Nollner's service to the Glee Club, an endowment fund has been established in his name to assist the Glee Club with its yearly operations.
Within each conference, the UIL separates the schools into regions, and then further separates the regions into districts for various contests.
Guest faculty have in the past included John O'Conor, Artur Pizarro, and HJ Lim, and in 2016 will include Orla McDonagh.
The weekend long back-to-back performances were full-length shows for international audiences at the Olympic Village.
Participating teachers in Cairo were pianist Ralf Gothoni, violist Teemu Kupiainen, cellist professor Arto Noras, director Eija Tolpo and pianist Jari Hiekkapelto.
Eventually, Van Zandt began recruiting a team of ethnomusicologists, educators and celebrity supporters to contribute to the organization.
In 2017, the group performed at Facebook headquarters and Google headquarters on their tour of the California Bay Area, then at the United Nations office in Geneva, Switzerland, and at the United States Embassy in Paris, France.
Stones Throw Records imprint label Now-Again Records released a compilation of KSB material in 2006, Texas Thunder Soul 1968–1974.
Brock Memorial Commission" to "a recognized composer to write a choral composition in an effort to perpetuate quality choral repertoire." See also John B.
Each presentation in Session I was followed by a response from a psychologist, and in Session II by a music educator.
The first person to be awarded a grant under the trust was the young Dunedin born soprano Ana James.
Alumni The Mechanicsburg Area School District and Mechanicsburg Area Senior High have both a list of distinguished alumni and an active Alumni Association.
As of 2017, AVP, as it is often called for short, has released thirteen studio albums, including a greatest hits album, DECADEmical: Best of 1993-2003, of its first ten years in existence.
Following its two residential courses, the ensemble performs during spring and summer at a variety of venues and festivals as part of the Orchestra's annual national and international tours.
The National String Project Consortium (NSPC) was formed in 1998 to address the shortage of string-instrument teachers in public schools in the United States.
After that, " "Pehchaan" from Pehchaan, "Lovestoned/Ya Ali" from On Detours, "Is Pal Mein" from Panoramic, and "Manwa Laage" from Resonance have all been selected to be on the Best of Collegiate A Cappella CD for their respective years.
It also previously published Percussionist (later renamed Percussive Notes Research Edition) until its functions were combined with Percussive Notes.
Traugott Rohner Leadership in the Music Industry Award is given to a string industry leader whose identity is primarily from within North America.
Audience members have included Martha Stewart, Jay Leno, Stella McCartney, Tom Brokaw, and President Barack Obama.
Brand, along with other musicians, thought that by combining information and actual musical performances in class, performed by live orchestra musicians, students will find it attractive and engaging to know more and to learn how to enjoy classical music.
Musical Futures Online In January 2021, Musical Futures UK unveiled their new resource platform, Musical Futures Online.
In 2005, the boys finished with a 19–3 record, repeated as the Big Spring Invitational champions, finished second at the Mid-Penn Cross Country Championships, won the Keystone Division title, and attained the highest team finish at the District 3 Championships in school history.
During the early 2020s, MFI increased its focus on digital access and teacher training through blended online and in-person workshops.
The Stanford Fleet Street Singers (Fleet Street) is a comedy a cappella group from Stanford University.
The band claimed 1st place prize on the night of November 12, 2005 at Lackawanna County Stadium in Moosic, Pennsylvania.
The five winningest class champion bands include Mars Area High School (16 times; A/AA/AAA), Gateway High School (15 times; AA/AAA/AAAA), Kiski Area High School (15 times; AAAA/National), Norwin Senior High School (12 times; AAAA/National), and Trinity High School (10 times; AAA/AAAA).
A typical MMCP sequence of events is as follows: 1) Strategy - Teacher presents a framework for introducing a musical problem (often in the form of a question) that inspires creative thought.
The band wore West Point-style uniforms like the rest of the cadets in the Military Department and had a more varied repertoire of instruments, including a clarinet.
Washington DC area (March 30–31, 2012) Day one will take place at the University of Maryland in College Park, Maryland and will feature Jerry Blackstone, Karen Kennedy and Jameson Marvin as clinicians.
Courses cover subjects such as Vocal Anatomy and Physiology, Voice Acoustics and Resonance, Vocal Health for Voice Professionals, Singers Development Repertoire and Comparative Voice Pedagogy.
After checking with area hotels (cost prohibitive and unavailable ballrooms for rehearsals - Beethoven Hall too small and the Majestic Theater booked), they were directed to the Scottish Rite Auditorium.
History The Sweethearts began at Matthew Flinders Girls Secondary College under the direction of Ross Lipson, initially as a social band for teachers and students in Years 10-12 of high school.
Originally set up as a recording studio, pointblank quickly evolved into a school after clients expressed an interest in learning about how the gear worked themselves.
Funded by the Ford Foundation and administered by the National Music Council, the project placed young composers (age 35 and under) in public school systems as composers-in-residence.
Typically, they offer a high percentage of practical training combined with academic study and professional development for those considering a career in the creative arts.
It protects and supports its members by providing them with expert advice, insurance and specialist services as well as access to a community of like-minded professionals and the status that comes with being a member of a professional body.
The history of Savonlinna Music Academy thus goes back to times before Savonlinna Opera Festival made the small town internationally known.
The New York Singing Teachers' Association (NYSTA) is an international educational association of singing teachers and affiliated voice professionals based in New York City.
The "spiral curriculum" concept was first proposed by Jerome Bruner in 1960, and has since been the model for many school curricula in the US.
As a reaction he threw back stones, of which photographs were made that were shown all over the world.
Focus The four main areas of MMCP focus are: Discovery - Learning by creating is the most exciting way to retain, understand, and learn music.
It was named for Leon Theremin - Russian inventor of the Theremin, one of the first widely used electronic musical instruments.
Maryam Tajik, Babak Nazari and Shahab Abtahi were also supportively present alongside other members.
Stanford Talisman is a student a cappella group at Stanford University, dedicated to sharing stories through music.
Alumni Alumni of the centre not mentioned above include: Tkay Maidza Pinkish Blu George Alice Teenage Joans DyspOra TOWNS References External links Official website NSS on YouTube
It was not until the spring of 1998 that the group of six, under the name "Tastes Like Chicken," received its first gig.
MENC officially expelled TMEA, what would have been and would remain today its largest affiliated organization, on June 30, 1975.
Radio The VFSS produced a radio program titled Folk Circle for the radio station CFRO-FM beginning in 1975 and running through the late seventies.
According to Director John Boyd, as they came onto the field for a halftime show, the announcer, the 1965–1979 director Ron Collins, said: "Here come your fabulous Marching Cavaliers!" The name ended up sticking.
In 2012 Energy Groove and the airline Emirates entered a collaboration which now sees Emirates play Energy Groove Radio across its entire fleet.
Notable APC arrangers and composers include Roland Barrett, Kenny Bierschenk, Scott Boerma, Jay Dawson, John Fannin, Gary P.
AYO offers tailored training and performance programs yearly for aspiring musicians, composers, arts administrators and music journalists, aged between 12 and 30.
Northern Sound System (NSS) is a dedicated youth centre focused on music, broadcasting, and other creative industries, located in Elizabeth, a northern suburb of Adelaide, South Australia.
The topics and the instructors There are 15 various topics and each one is about a different musical instrument.
The National Association of Schools of Music (NASM) is an association of post-secondary music schools in the United States and the principal U.S.
The orchestra has been conducted by Valery Gergiev, Vladimir Fedoseyev, Michail Jurowski, Alexander Lazarev, Alexander Sladkovsky, Jean-Christophe Spinosi, Yuri Simonov, Antonello Manacorda, Alexander Anisimov, Nayden Todorov and Maxim Emelyanychev.
The Fabulous Marching Cavaliers, also abbreviated to FMC, is the marching band of Princess Anne High School in Virginia Beach, Virginia, United States.
Other artists involved in the 2021 programme included: Sokel, Elsy Wameyo, and Sonz of Serpent performed on the Zoo Stage and Frome Park Pavilion at Botanic Park at WOMAD in 2022.
Initially aimed at giving guitar and piano lessons and focused on rock and roll, it soon began a technical program for producing music, and then programs for theater, dance, and world music.
That following summer students decided that the experience was so much fun and the result so successful that it would be worth a try to keep the group going as an a cappella group.
Concerts are held at least twice a year in the Aula Magna in Louvain-la-Neuve, with regular concerts in other Belgian cities.
The purpose of the Symposium was to explore the relationship between research in certain areas of behavioral psychology and music education.
The "Barberpole Cat Program" is a collection of 12 songs (commonly known as "polecats") that are considered standard repertoire for every barbershopper ("Let Me Call You Sweetheart", "My Wild Irish Rose", etc.) Every member receives a booklet upon joining the society.
By 1817, leadership for the West Point Band was given to a civilian with the pay and benefits of a Major.
Plot The story takes place in a world which diverged from ours in 1888, when a mysterious explosion killed Queen Victoria and her entire immediate family, with the exception of Duke "Eddy" of Clarence, who survived as a brain damaged cripple and was thus unable to succeed to the throne.
According to Geetha, "The book does not propound a theory of patriarchy; rather, it points to those areas of reality and traditions of knowledge that we might need to draw upon to define patriarchy.
79) -- Եղիշե Unknown Historic catholicoi / primates Catolicoi primates appointed by Armenian Apostolic Church (fourth century – c.
In December 276, based on his promise to his late wife, the emperor married Yang Zhi and created her empress.
The Catholicos of Armenia and All Armenians claims sovereignty over the Catholicos of Cilicia, though the latter operates independently.
At the time, Huan Wen was carrying out the northern expedition, and military affairs are handed over to Wang Xun; tens of thousands of people, both military and civilian, knew him.
Catholicoi of Cilicia (Name in English, dates, Armenian name) The Catholicoi of the Great House of Cilicia (the traditional name of the Holy See) include: Sivas era (1058–1062), Tavbloor era (1062–1066) Khachik II of Armenia, Khachik II of Ani, Khachik II of Cilicia (1058–1065) -- Խաչիկ Բ.
630 — Քրիստափոր Բ Ապահունի Ezra (630–641) -- Եզր Ա Փառաժնակերտցի Nerses III the Builder (641–661) -- Ներսես Գ Տայեցի (Շինարար) Anastasius I (661–667) -- Անաստաց Ա Ակոռեցի Israel I (667–677) -- Իսրայել Ա Ոթմսեցի Sahak III (677–703) -- Սահակ Գ.
William Wilson Chief Apostle of the New Apostolic Church: Jean-Luc Schneider President of the General Conference of the Seventh-day Adventist Church: Elder Erton Köhler President of the Baptist World Alliance: Tomás Mackey President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Dallin H.
Yelü Lübugu (Chinese: 耶律呂不古) or known by the title Princess of Yan State (Chinese: 燕国公主), was a Liao dynasty princess and the first daughter of Emperor Taizong of Liao.
History Jerusalem (in Latin also Hierosolyma) was one of the Apostles' original bishoprics (diocese).
According to Geetha, "Sexual violence has been blamed on a patriarchal backlash where the term 'patriarchy' is often synonymous with 'tradition'".
In 226, Cao Rui granted Cui Lin the landless title of a Secondary Marquis, and promoted him to Minister of the Household (光祿勳) and Colonel-Director of Retainers, one of the Three Venerables (三獨坐).
Biography Little is known about Li Han's personal life, beyond that he was an official in the 8th century.
The clan was first established in Xingyang county by Zheng Dangshi, son of Zheng Jun, a general who served under Xiang Yu.
Life Yang Xiu was a son of Yang Biao (楊彪) and a grandson of Yang Ci (楊賜); Yang Ci was a son of Yang Bing (楊秉), son of Yang Zhen (楊震) of the Yang clan of Hongnong.
His maternal grandmother was Wang Mengjiang, the only daughter of calligrapher, writer and politician Wang Xizhi.
It stars Natasha Richardson as Offred, Faye Dunaway as Serena Joy, and Robert Duvall as the Commander (Fred).
Du Xiao (杜曉) (died March 27, 913), courtesy name Mingyuan (明遠), was an official of the Chinese Tang dynasty and Later Liang, serving as a chancellor during Later Liang.
According to the study done by the Soor Center for Professional Therapy and Assessment, there is less objectification experienced by veiled women in comparison to unveiled women.
After riding for another 30 li (approximately 15 km), Cao Cao finally understood the hidden meaning behind those words and asked Yang Xiu to share his insights and see if he got it correct.
Yu Bing and Yu Yi's sister, Yu Wenjun was the mother of Emperor Cheng, and for this reason the brothers were able to have a strong presence in the state.
The following is a current list of the highest-ranking leaders in major Christian churches or denominations.
In addition, the layout of the house in such films (as well as Gothic novels) creates "spatial disorientation [that] causes fear and an uncanny restlessness".
With the consent of the Muslim authorities the bishopric was, from that moment onwards, again headed by a patriarch.
Members Maternal grandfather (外祖父, 外公) and maternal grandmother (外祖母，外婆) Maternal uncles and aunts Maternal cousins.
Historically, it was the duty of women to deliver these heirs for the sake of the perpetuation of the extant economic and social system.
The base text of the Records of the Three Kingdoms says that Cui Lin voluntarily gave up control of You Province to make way for Wu Zhi to unite the northern frontier forces, which Cui Lin considered a better way of dealing with the non-Han Chinese frontier peoples.
Jin dynasty During the Western Jin period, Wang Rong was a prominent scion of the clan, reaching the rank of Situ.
Wai sun (外孫) is equivalent to nü er de er zi (女兒的兒子; "daughter's son"), if you combine take the two major characters out and combine nü (女; "daughter") with zi (子; son), you get hao (好; good).
In 273, when Emperor Wu was seeking beautiful women to serve as his concubines, he initially put Empress Yang in charge of the selection process.
As the Qi army viewed Zheng as a civilian who did not know about military matters, they took few precautions.
They argue that the emphasis on traditional family structures ignores the diversity of modern families and the importance of women's rights to autonomy and career advancement.
For the next few years, Xie remained on the defensive and was given new important positions each year.
The earliest prominent members of this clan can be traced back to two brothers, Wang Rou and Wang Ze, of the Eastern Han dynasty.
Reign of Tuoba Yilu Tuoba Yilu and Liu Kun became sworn brothers, and as reward for helping him, Liu Kun petitioned the Jin court to bestow Yilu the title of Duke of Dai.
List of patriarchs Following the Council of Chalcedon in 451, a schism occurred in Egypt, between those who accepted and those who rejected the decisions of the council.
Emperor Houfei was a violent and unpredictable teenage emperor, and he often killed whoever he encountered.
Cui Dunli (崔敦禮) (596 – August 29, 656), né Cui Yuanli (崔元禮), courtesy name Anshang (安上), formally Duke Zhao of Gu'an (固安昭公), was an official, general, and diplomat of the Chinese Tang dynasty, serving as chancellor during the reign of Emperor Gaozong.
Feminism has a long tradition of examining the concept of patriarchy, and the book attempts to demonstrate that the nature, effect, and meanings of male authority and power can only be understood through the idea of patriarchy.
Emperor Gaozong initially wanted to spare Li Yuanjing and Li Ke, but at Cui's opposition did not do so.
Volodymyr (secular name Vasyl Omelianovych Romaniuk, Ukrainian: Василь Омелянович Романюк; 9 December 1923 – 14 July 1995) was a Ukrainian Eastern Orthodox priest and human rights activist who was Patriarch of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church – Kyiv Patriarchate from its founding until his death.
His military achievements were all the more remarkable due to his physical weaknesses; it was recorded that he was unable to ride a horse or shoot an arrow with significant force.
In 327, the ambitious general Su Jun, offended by Yu Liang's attempt to strip him of his military command, rebelled along with Zu Yue, and Su's forces quickly captured Jiankang in early 328, taking Empress Dowager Yu and Emperor Cheng hostage and forcing Yu to flee.
The Patriarch of the East Indies, a titular patriarchal see, united to Goa and Daman, established in 1886.
This type of traditional, village style cooperation is similar to a late 19th-century Russian system called obshchina.
During World War II, he studied at Kosiv within the General Government and was a member of the Organisation of Ukrainian Nationalists operating underground in opposition to the German occupation.
This is because they perceive resources they have as scarce and, possibly, their lifespan to be shorter, under the influence of father absence.
The Qin decided to send spies to the Zhao court, bribing key courtiers such as Guo Kai (郭開) and Han Cang (韓倉) to persuade the King of Zhao to replace Li Mu and Sima Shang (司馬尚) with Zhao Cong (趙蔥) and Yan Ju (顏聚) as generals by alleging that the former were planning a rebellion.
They feared that if either one of Cheng's sons were to ascend, their ties to the throne will become more distant which in turn will diminish their influence.
He was the final ruler of the Western Liao to come from the House of Yelü, as the throne would be usurped by his son-in-law Kuchlug in 1211.
Chokher Bali (চোখের বালি) is a 1903 Bengali novel by Rabindranath Tagore that revolves around the central character Binodini and her relationships with three individuals.
Ann Veronica created a sensation when published in the autumn of 1909 because of the feminist sensibilities of the heroine and also because of the affair Wells was having with Amber Reeves, the woman who inspired the novel's eponymous character.
Stimpson of Rutgers University described the book as having "the boldness, authority, and richness of The Second Sex." The book won the 1986 Joan Kelly Prize of the American Historical Association.
Medical services Medical services against a symbolic fee are provided at a clinic donated by the Jinishian Medical Fund.
In 901, Abaoji was elected chieftain of the Yila tribe and in 905 forged relations with Li Keyong of the Shatuo Turks.
As Tao Kan and Wen gathered their forces and marched against Su's, Wang persuaded Su's general Lu Yong (路永) to defect to Tao and Wen, and Wang and Lu fled Jiankang together, joining Tao and Wen's forces.
A majority of Church members are Arab citizens of Israel and Palestinian Arabs, and there are also a small number of Assyrians, Greeks and Georgians.
Yang Yan (楊艷) (238 – August 25, 274), courtesy name Qiongzhi (瓊芝), formally Empress Wuyuan (武元皇后, "the martial and discerning empress") was an empress of the Western Jin dynasty.
Liu Yu gained more and more power, at the expense of the Xie and the other old families, but at first was content to have the services of Xie Lingyun, nominally as an official of Jin.
The main positions are the following: 1466–1822 The chronology up to the year 1595 is somewhat disputed by authors.
He is regarded by Chinese folklore as one of the four Greatest Generals of the Late Warring States period, along with Bai Qi, Wang Jian, and Lian Po.
Anecdotes When Huan Yi (father of Huan Wen) first reached Sima Rui's domain from the north, he saw the weak Eastern Jin court and expressed his despair to Zhou Yi.
As a result, the Supreme Court ruled that anyone conducting such a test on a survivor would be considered guilty of misconduct.
Along similar lines, sons with absent fathers could have confused gender identities – if the son was separated from his father by age four, he would be less assertive, less involved in sport, less masculine than other boys and more dependent on his peers.
If a girl is found not to be a virgin, her father may have to pay a fine for "tainting" the community and the girl may be shunned from the "certified" virgins.
In April of 1990 he was tonsured as an archimandrite selecting name of Volodymyr and next day consecrated as Bishop of Uzhhorod and Vynohradiv.
Although the expansionary of urbanisation has increased in recent decades throughout China, agriculture still plays a role in gender bias.
Meanwhile, in a meeting in Buck's office his lawyers produce a trump card: no death certificate exists for Myron Breckinridge in New York, and if he is not dead his will has no legal bearing.
He was posthumously named Zhongchang and posthumously appointed Palace Attendant and Minister of Works.
Kinship structures tend to be weaker in northern China, with clan members that do not usually reside in the same village nor share property.
Tomorrow I Become a Woman is the debut novel by Nigerian writer Aiwanose Odafen, published in 2022 by Scribner UK, an imprint of Simon & Schuster.
Handmaids themselves are "untouchable", but their ability to signify status is equated to that of slaves or servants throughout history.
Pang Pang Clan rooted in Yichun, Jiangxi until Pang Kwai (彭桂) and his family relocated to Lung Yeuk Tau of Fanling.
Also prior to the founding of the PRC, certain aspects of taijiao (fetal education) were believed to help ensure a fetus would be male, and pregnant women might visit also a fortune teller in an effort to determine fetal sex.
Based on Yang Su's conduct during the campaign, the historian Sima Guang, in his Zizhi Tongjian, commented: When Yang Su commanded large armies, he showed flexibility and much tactical capability.
The emperor felt displeased because he thought that the Li family, the imperial family, should be the most prestigious one in his time.
In 811, it was said that because the eunuchs disliked having Li Jiang at the Hanlin Institute (where the imperial scholars resided), Li Jiang was made the deputy minister of census (戶部侍郎, Hubu Shilang).
He proposes that these three universal institutions, attested as they are across independent cultures, suggest a simple psychophysiological cause, since physiology remains constant, as do the institutions, even across variable cultures—a universal phenomenon suggests a universal explanation.
Together with Yi, Bing filled in his late brother's role and maintained their family's prominence in the court.
After Du Rangneng's death, Du Xiao mourned him bitterly, and even after the traditional three-year mourning period, he still partially wore mourning clothes for over a decade and did not embark on an official career.
However, Emperor Wu hesitated about selecting him as crown prince because he was developmentally disabled.
That night, every firstborn human, plant, and animal in Egypt dies, with the Angel of Death gleefully collecting each dead body.
He was from the "second house of northern ancestry" (北祖第二房) of the prominent Lu clan of Fanyang, although Lu Han's male line ancestors for several generations prior to his grandfather Lu Lübing (盧履冰), during the Tang dynasty, had not served as governmental officials.
The Cui clan of Qinghe lost their political privilege by the end of the Tang dynasty and dissolved into different social classes.
Later in fall 553, Emperor Wenxuan of Northern Qi prepared for an operation where he would try to impose Emperor Yuan's cousin Xiao Tui (蕭退) the Marquess of Xiangtan as Liang's emperor.
In light of Hou's defeat, Northern Qi seized nearly all of the formerly Liang territory north of the Yangtze River, and Wang and Chen had to fend themselves against Northern Qi attacks.
259), Cao Wei official and commander Wang Hun (223–297), son of Wang Chang, Cao Wei and Jin minister Wang Chen (d.
Furthermore, Zhao was diplomatically isolated as the Kingdoms of Wei, Yan, and Han were too weak to offer any kind of support, while Qi and Chu were more willing to see the kingdom extinguished than face the powerful Qin.
During the Northern Wei period, the Wang clan was considered one of the 'four surnames' – four powerful clans, alongside the Lu clan of Fanyang, the Cui clan of Qinghe and the Zheng clan of Xingyang.
For example, she read Jean-Jacques Rousseau's philosophical work on education, Emile, and his sentimental novel, La Nouvelle HéloÏse as well as Thomas Day's children's book The History of Sandford and Merton.
Conceiving children to provide bone marrow or organs for their sickly older siblings, a concept known as "savior siblings", has been derisively described by a derivative phrase: "the heir and the spare parts." See also Male heir Birth order Cadet (genealogy) References Further reading Morgan, E.
Jerusalem was granted autocephaly in 451 by the Council of Chalcedon and in 531 became one of the initial five patriarchates.
Taken to La Escuelita "The Little School", Partnoy endured violence and torture to be "taught a lesson".
Service under Emperor Qianfei In 464, Emperor Xiaowu died and was succeeded by his impulsive and violent son Emperor Qianfei.
Pakistan In Pakistan, the novel was adapted in 2010 by Sarmad Khoosat as a television series, Kalmoohi.
Xiao Tabuyan (Chinese: 蕭塔不煙; pinyin: Xiāo Tǎbùyān, died after 1150) was empress of the Western Liao dynasty (Qara Khitai) by marriage to her cousin Yelü Dashi (Emperor Dezong).
In 184, Lui Bei, Guan Yu, Zhang Fei, took the following legendary oath of brotherhood at the Peach Garden; in 200, Zhao Yun joined them to form the Four Brothers.
It was one of the most commonly used primers in the Tang and later periods, alongside the Qianziwen and the Xiaojing.
In clans or the empire, outer kins are usually not allowed to hold power because it disrupts the male-centered social order and network.
In winter 881, the Fengxiang officer Li Changyan, who was then stationed at Xingping (興平, in modern Xianyang, Shaanxi), provoked the soldiers and led them to return to Fengxiang in order to attack Zheng.
Career Xie Lingyun served as an official in the Eastern Jin, during which time the rebellion was quashed by general Liu Yu; however, this would turn out to be just a step in general Liu's career, later on he would overthrow the Eastern Jin dynasty and establish the Liu Song dynasty, as Emperor Wu.
The essentialness of androgen receptors to female fertility and ovary development has been proven by rodent studies.
Պատմութիւն Կաթողիկոսաց Կիլիկիոյ (1441-էն մինչեւ մեր օրերը) [History of the Cilician Catholicosate (From 1441 to our days)] Antelias: Dprevanuts, 1939.
Cultural and social media influences The influence of neopatriarchal ideas extends beyond the political sphere into popular culture, particularly on social media platforms.
In 593, Emperor Wen commissioned the construction of a summer vacation palace, Renshou Palace (仁壽宮), which is away from capital Chang'an.
The book, written from the female perspective, is part of the "Theorizing Feminism" series published by Stree (an imprint of Bhatkal and Sen).
He is also commemorated at Zhenbian Hall, a temple beside the Tianxian Gate at Yanmen Pass in Shanxi.
During Emperor Wen's reign In 581, Yang Jian had Emperor Jing yield the throne to him, ending Northern Zhou and establishing Sui dynasty as its Emperor Wen.
Traditionally, once a girl is married, she becomes part of her husband's family, which means she is no longer responsible for her parents' care as they age.
The kongsi is similar to modern business partnerships, but also draws on a deeper spirit of cooperation and consideration of mutual welfare.
Its aim was the convent-based rehabilitation of women, including prostitutes, thieves, the homeless, alcoholics etc.
History Northern and Southern dynasties The Wang clan generally did not move southwards after the Disaster of Yongjia and the fall of the Western Jin.
Genetic genealogy The fact that human Y-chromosome DNA (Y-DNA) is paternally inherited enables patrilines and agnatic kinships of men to be traced through genetic analysis.
In order to help Yu Yi, Yu Bing requested to be moved to border command, so the court place him in command of Jingzhou, Jiangzhou, Ningzhou, Yizhou, Lianzhou, Jiaozhou, Guangzhou and four commanderies of Yuzhou.
After the delivery, he returned to China with Kuratsukuri no Fukuri and some Japanese students who were prepared to complete their education in China (such as Takamuko no Kuromaro).
After 649, Pope Martin I appointed John of Philadelphia (Amman) as patriarchal vicar of Jerusalem to replace Sergius of Jaffa.
A transliteration in Devanagari script, with footnotes in Hindi, was also published by the Sahitya Akademi in 1961.
1434) The Catholicosate of the Church of Armenia moved to Cilicia and the Holy See of Cilicia was established in 1058.
Yang Jian's family was the Yang clan of Hongnong (弘農楊氏), which had Han origins but had intermarried with the Xianbei for generations.
Plot A beautiful young woman, Myra Breckinridge is a film enthusiast with a special interest in the Golden Age of Hollywood—in particular the 1940s—and the writings of film critic Parker Tyler.
Emperor Xianzong initially agreed with Li Jiang, but due to the eunuchs' opposition did not actually carry out the plan.
Printing press and media The patriarchate also runs a printing press, the first to be established in Jerusalem, which has now become capable of undertaking commercial color printing.
In the 21st century, son preference has been broadly documented in South and East Asia, but is also observable in Western countries.
The novel concludes with a metafictional epilogue, described as a partial transcript of an international historical association conference taking place in the year 2195.
'Is that plain?' she asked." Capes decides to throw over his employment at the college in order to live with Ann Veronica, and they enjoy a glorious "honeymoon" in the Alps.
Wang continued to advance east, and in fall 551, he joined forces with Chen Baxian, who had advanced north from Guang Province (廣州, modern Guangdong).
Poetry As a poet, Lu Lun is known for continuing the Frontier fortress genre of Tang poetry (along with Li Yi), begun earlier by the "Borders and Frontier Fortress Poets Group" (边塞诗派), in which are included Gao Shi, Cen Can, Wang Changling, Wang Zhihuan, Cui Hao, and Li Qi.
Around the new year 689, Empress Dowager Wu, who had by that point taken up permanent residence in the eastern capital Luoyang, made Pei the official in charge of the capital Chang'an.
Council of 363 In 363, another council met under Athanasius for the purpose of submitting to the new Roman Emperor Jovian an account of the truth faith.
A prolific author, Du Yu was a self-proclaimed addict of the Zuo Zhuan and wrote an influential commentary to it.
Before Liwei's death in 277, the Jin sowed discord among the Tuoba chieftains and coerced Liwei into killing his heir, Tuoba Shamohan.
Earls poses that his studies have male centric conclusions, as his explanations for lesbianism were rooted in women not having access to men.
Additionally, researchers have found that increasing levels of "gender indifference" and decreasing levels of son preference, for example as documented in Taiwan since 1990, can be correlated to maternal educational levels.
Alongside the Cui clan of Boling, the Lu clan of Fanyang and the Wang clan of Taiyuan, the Zhengs were one of the "Four Surnames" of Northern Wei.
Fictionalizing memories allows the authors to make their stories more emotional and powerful, and gives them revolutionary potential.
1140) – Բեժգեն Nerses II (1149–1155) – Ներսես Բ Stepanos III (1155–1195) – Ստեփանոս Գ Hovhannes VI (1195–1235) – Հովհաննես Զ Nerses III (1235–1262) – Ներսես Գ Stepanos IV (1262 – c.
Stanley forbids his adult daughter, a biology student at Tredgold Women's College and the youngest of his five children, to attend a fancy dress ball in London, causing a crisis.
Criticism Biblical patriarchy has been criticised for holding views that demean women and view them as property.
With Li Mu's death, the fall of Zhao became inevitable, and the state was swiftly crushed afterwards by Qin forces.
Kleinberg and Boris point to a dominant paradigm which promotes wage-earning fathers with financially dependent mothers, the exclusion of same-sex couples, and the marginalization of single-parent families.
Further, Chinese agrarian society influences sex preference, as agriculture is often perceived as men's work in China.
Benefit derives from the surplus income of ancestral shrines and homes, which is reinvested by the managers or shared out in yearly dividends.
Evidence indicating historical gynocracies survives mostly in mythology and in some archaeological records, although it is disputed by some authors, like Cynthia Eller in her book The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory.
In 825, when Liu Wu the military governor of Zhaoyi died and left a request to let his son Liu Congjian inherit the circuit, Li Jiang opposed, believing that the imperial government should send a replacement for Liu Wu quickly, and that if that occurred, Liu Congjian would not dare to resist.
1923–present Lengths of tenure Longest-reigning patriarchs Bartholomew (1991–present): 34 years, 203 days Sergius I (610–638): 28 years, 7 months and 21 days.
Since the Zhou Dynasty, traditional Chinese society has been structured around networks of male kins who controlled rituals and the traditions of warfare, while maternal cousins had no right to intervene.
He posits explanations as to what patriarchy is and isn't, how it works, and what gets in the way of understanding and doing something about it.
Traditionally, agnatic succession is applied in determining the names and membership of European dynasties.
Virginity testing is widely considered controversial because of its implications for the tested women and girls as it is viewed as unethical, and because such tests are widely considered to be unscientific.
Saint John was himself associated with the apostolic throne of Ephesus, although this apostolic see has been canonically vacant since 1922.
His territory supposedly spanned from the Yemaek in the east to the Fergana in the west, and from the Yin Mountains in the south to the northern edge of the desert.
Whatever he suggested was not refused, and so Yang Su's followers, even if their contributions were small, would be rewarded for their contributions.
In 2019, the Maharashtra state government announced that it intended to make virginity tests for brides a punishable offence, describing the practice as form of sexual assault.
She blends elements of testimonio with survival narratives during the National Liberation Movement (Movimiento).
Ann Veronica was included in the Modern Library in 1917, the year the publishing company was founded.
Elsewhere, Sandlin argues that a "renewed patriarchalism in some quarters is working for hegemony over the other legitimate spheres of God’s authority." In other words, the authority of the father dominates other authority structures in the church and in society.
The metaphor of the tree is not only useful in illustrating the patriarchal system, but in other systems of oppression as well, such as classism, racism, or ableism (Johnson, 2013).
She returns to her father's home and engages herself to marry an admirer she does not love, Hubert Manning.
Members Father and mother (父母; fùmǔ) ― the mother is "transplanted" (嫁; jià) to father by her family of origin (原生家庭; yuánshēng jiātíng).
She served as the regent of the empire for her son, Yelü Yilie (Emperor Renzong), during his minority from 1143 to 1150.
Prior to Yang Xiu's death, Cao Cao had written a letter to his father Yang Biao, reproaching him for his son's arrogance.
With this money, Ann Veronica is able to devote herself to study in the biological laboratory of the Central Imperial College (a constituent college of London University) where she meets and falls in love with Capes, the laboratory's "demonstrator." But Mr.
Cui Hao's family, a cadet branch of the Cui clan of Qinghe, was exterminated during the Northern Wei, but other branches of the clan survived.
Later that year, he was made Neishi (內史)—the head of the legislative bureau of government (鳳閣, Fengge) and a post considered one for a chancellor.
Athanasius and Eusebius of Vercelli presided over the council, and Athanasius read his Apologia de Fuga aloud to the attendees, who included some Marmaricans.
Oaks Presiding Bishop of the Church Of God In Christ Inc.: John Drew Sheard, Sr Executive Minister of Iglesia ni Cristo: Eduardo V.
In contemporary politics In recent years, the concept of neopatriarchy has gained significant attention in political discourse, particularly within conservative movements in the United States.
The Cui clan of Boling (博陵崔氏) was a notable Chinese clan of noble descent which was politically active from the Han dynasty to the end of the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period.
A male heir (sometimes heirs male)—usually describing the first-born son (primogeniture) or oldest surviving son of a family—has traditionally been the recipient of the residue of the estate, titles, wealth and responsibilities of his father in a patrilineal system.
After Emperor Min was also captured by Han, Wang was one of the officials who urged Sima Rui to take the throne, and he did, initially claiming the title "Prince of Jin" in 317 and then emperor in 318 after Emperor Min was executed by Han.
The miaphysites became the Coptic Church (part of Oriental Orthodoxy) and the Chalcedonians became the Greek Orthodox Church of Alexandria (part of the wider Eastern Orthodox Church).
This is a list of the Armenian catholicoi of Cilicia of the Holy See of Cilicia (full name: the Armenian Catholicosate of the Great House of Cilicia, Armenian: Կաթողիկոսութիւն Հայոց Մեծի Տանն Կիլիկիոյ).
Ancient Church of the East Subsequently, after three years of the seat of the Ancient Church of the East remaining vacant (1964–1967), Mar Thoma Darmo was elected as Catholicos-Patriarch in October 1968.
During Yuchi's campaign, Zhou princes like Yuwen Xian Prince of Bi and Yuwen Zhao made attempts to assassinate Yang, but failed.
Members of Sarva Jaateeya Venain Khap, one of the largest khap panchayats in Haryana, have instead said there are no female khap members because they feel uncomfortable attending, not because they are not allowed.
In many cases, women are praised for their ability to "have it all", but they are also criticized if they fail to meet the high expectations placed on them.
In Western societies, the concept of neopatriarchy has gained attention in the analysis of certain political and cultural movements that advocate for a return to traditional family values and gender roles.
After becoming empress, Lady Yang, in gratitude, arranged for Zhao Jun to be promoted; Zhao Jun's niece Zhao Can (赵粲; daughter of his elder brother Zhao Yu (赵虞)) was also made Sima Yan's concubine.
Reception Carol Tavris writes in the Wall Street Journal that "[Rosin] avoids the journalistic habit of doing 'spotlight interviews' with individuals selected to support the writer's hypothesis, a practice she knows is misleading.
On 23 August 2004, Destiny Church organised a large public rally known as the "Enough is Enough" march in Wellington to oppose the Fifth Labour Government's proposed Civil Union Act.
Although, returning home from the monastery in 399, when he would have been in his mid-teens, Xie retained a lifelong Buddhist practice.
Producing male offspring and securing their enduring loyalty is paramount to the life-long project of gaining security, safety, and authority over her daughters-in-law.
Yang Su spent much effort building it to be a luxurious palace, needing not much architectural work but landscaping of the nearby hills and valleys.
At some point, Cui Youfu passed the imperial examinations, and he later served as the sheriff of Shou'an County (壽安, in modern Luoyang, Henan).
By virtue of this multi-provincial oversight, the sees of Rome, Alexandria and Antioch were already exercising a "supra-metropolitan" jurisdiction, later termed as Patriarchates.
Not all of the apostles are associated with specific "thrones"; in general, the phrase applies to apostles who presided over a specific geographic church.
Additionally, it was still widely acclaimed and used in Korea and Japan for centuries; it was noted as having been used to educate Imperial Prince Sadayasu, fourth son of Emperor Seiwa.
This training makes patriarchy appear natural, as though it were determined by biology, when in fact it is a social convention or a political relationship.
A special Pan-Orthodox Synod was convened in Constantinople (Istanbul) to review the decision of the Holy Synod of Jerusalem.
McGuire claimed that the patriarch accepted the African Orthodox Church as an Orthodox jurisdiction, but would not afford it communion with Eastern Orthodoxy until it demonstrated stability and growth.
Two out of the five major branches remained in Hong Kong (Ping Shan and Kam Tin) while the other three moved back to mainland China.
His paternal grandfather was the general Xie Xuan, a general who is best known for repelling the Former Qin army at the Battle of Fei River, thus preventing the Former Qin emperor Fu Jiān from destroying Jin, and thus allowing the continuation of the southern dynastic kingdoms.
In this genre, the alliances and adversarial relationships between the women in the back courtyard are often given an equal amount of attention as any romantic relationship with the male characters.
Earlier, she uploaded some scenes-in-progress to Vimeo and YouTube, including the opening "God-Mother" number in 2017, and "Death of the Firstborn Egyptians" in 2014, the latter gaining 2.7 million views by August 2020.
Later, when Wang found out from imperial archives the petitions that Zhou had submitted on his behalf, he mourned and gave a famous quote, which later became a Chinese idiom: Although I did not kill Boren(伯仁), Boren died because of me!
People like Cao Cao always wanted to mystify themselves and have political secrets which could not be arbitrarily shared with anyone.
It was also translated under its original title by Sukhendu Ray (2005) and Radha Chakravarty (2012).
The Cui clan of Qinghe (Chinese: 清河崔氏) was an eminent Chinese family of high-ranking government officials and Confucian scholars.
At the time that Wang Xun married Xie Wan's daughter, his brother Wang Min also married Xie An's daughter.
He worked on community enterprises, being the co-owner of the Swash and Buckle Fencing Club (established initially for Equity members), and was a founder of the Actors' Centre in 1978.
Jacking, Jackin’, or the jack is a freestyle dance move in which the dancer ripples their torso back and forth in an undulating motion.
They have traditionally been popular since the early Middle Ages in Europe during seasonal festivals, especially in the summertime.
In 2022, a local official reported that up to 50 people sustained injuries, but the police received no complaints.
The second reason is related to progress around the floor along the counter-clockwise line of dance.
Legend According to local Hindu folklore, before a marriage between the goddess Bhadrakali and the god Virabhadra, there was a dispute.
Also, vaudeville acrobatic dances were often little more than acrobatics set to music, whereas modern acro dance is fundamentally dance, with its acrobatic movements performed in a dance context.
Split leap or split jump is a split that is executed after leaping or jumping, respectively, while still in the air.
Form-fitting clothing is preferred over loose clothing because the latter does not move synchronously with the body and thus may interfere with a dancer's ability to maintain control.
Reviews "Trained to the Hilt" "It brings a level of genuine excitement that is rare in dramatic theatre… which ought to be taken as a significant addition to the mythology." "Brilliant" See also Stage combat Stunt coordinator References External links Scarlet Blade Theatre
Biography Early films "You've probably never heard of my movies," Panna told the Bangkok Post in a 2004 interview.
Good suicides elicit exclamations of "ouch" from onlookers and can even be comical to a certain degree.
These include side-swords, two-handed swords such as longswords, and single-edged swords including Großes Messer, szablas, scimitars, and katanas.
It is a component of American Rhythm dances, including bachata, mambo, salsa, rhumba, merengue, samba and cha-cha-cha.
David Arquette, as a wrestler, has used the worm dance ending with a standing elbow drop finisher in WCW and later on in the independent circuit.
Japanese martial arts In Japanese martial arts practice, kata is often seen as an essential partner to randori training with one complementing the other.
The Reverse Suicide involves a back hand spring or back flip landing on the knees first then back == References ==
Both hands remain on the floor while the body revolves backward through a handstand position, until the foot of the leading leg, followed by the foot of the trailing leg, reach the floor.
Modern day Currently both Parichamuttukali and Margamkali are included in the State Youth Festival of Kerala.
This is because they share the feel when it comes to piking your legs and swinging them in between the hand switch.
Finally, the highest stage of escalation is Nomohoni or all-out massacres brought about by treachery.
As this happens, the arms are brought together away from the chest and spotting technique is employed so that the dancer's head faces the direction of travel as much as possible.
He made the announcement during the 3 Pagi Era segment and was witnessed by the radio presenters Radin and Azad Jasmin and guest presenters Linda Onn and Halim Othman.
Interkingdom awards The Order of the Laurel - Some fencers have been elevated to the Order of the Laurel for research and historical fencing technique.
In the first arabesque, the dancer stands in effacé position – with the left foot in front – with the right leg raised in arabesque, the right arm extended to the side, to the audience, and the left arm extended front, towards the corner.
Flash dancers, who toured with big bands in the United States in the early twentieth century, performed acrobatic dances, often matched with tap dancers and contortionists in traveling shows.
He studied Taekwondo, earning a black belt, and represented the Selangor contingent as an athlete at the 2004 Malaysia Games (SUKMA).
Neither Gus Giordano nor Frank Hatchett include shaking the hands in their description of jazz hands, but a choreographer may specify that the hands are to be shaken; the motion is rapid and fluttering, as if jingling a tambourine.
the English language translation of the fourth Russian edition, published in the 1930s in Leningrad, USSR.
TV & Film Scarlet Blade Theatre is not limited to live performance; company members have performed in Feature Film, Television & Video Games.
In the Pink video "Try" (2013), the singer and male dancer Colt Prattes can be seen performing an interpretation of the Apache dance choreography by The golden Boyz - R J Durrell and Nick Florez - and aerial choreographer Sebastien Stella.
Traction is essential to prevent lateral slipping that could result in dangerous falls to the hard floor.
Regardless of the beginning, there are several swipe variations that basically differ in terms of which parts of the arms hit the ground.
The working leg is often held in retiré position, but may be held in a variety of other positions, either with or without turnout.
An important concentration of traditional sword dances can be found on the Italian side of the western Alps.
Hairul Azreen Idris (born 23 April 1988) is a former Malaysian actor, stuntman, model, director, and entrepreneur.
In more formal variants of the curtsy, the girl/woman bends the knees outward (rather than straight ahead), often sweeping one foot behind her.
It is typically used to advance a couple 5⁄4 of a turn down line of dance, although an underturned spin turn is also very useful for turning a corner.
It has been applied to a range of production genres including professional theatre, opera, ballet, film, television and motion capture, notably including The Lord of the Rings film trilogy, as well as to physical theater, martial arts and self defense training.
The dancer uses their arms to support their body above the floor while moving their legs in a circle.
The Codex Belli, literally Laws of Battle, are a ruleset for unchoreographed semi-contact combat with medieval reenactment weapons, which differ most notably from realistic replicas in that they have rounded edges and points.
Ching Siu-tung is particularly noted in the field of Hong Kong action cinema for his use of graceful wire fu techniques.
Leader (man) Follower (lady) Progressive chassé to right The progressive chassé to right is a Bronze syllabus figure.
Kime-no-kata is a long kata consisting of self-defense techniques against both unarmed attacks, and attacks with swords and knives.
A kick is a b-boy move that generally constitutes a one-handed handstand with the legs and free arm in some stylish position.
The dance is considered a relic of the war dances (Albanian: valle luftarake), the remnants of pantomimic dances performed in the re-enactment or preparation of battles.
This may refer to either single combat, melees involving small groups, or nearly full-scale battles with hundreds of participants.
From the moment a front aerial performer leaves the floor until touching down again, the torso must remain in a stationary, inverted orientation while the lower body rotates about the torso.
Middle East Arab sword dances (raqs al-saïf) evolved out of sword fighting between men, in both Egypt and Turkey.
On 19 January 2025, Carlos Baleba did The Griddy in the tunnel of Old Trafford after helping his team to beat Manchester United by 1-3.
Such performances are offered by a number of museums, including the Higgins Armory Museum, Worcester, MA, USA [1] and the Royal Armouries, Leeds, UK[2].
In a basic handstand, the body is held straight with arms and legs fully extended, with hands spaced approximately shoulder-width apart and the legs together.
Thrusting has been observed in humans at eight to 10 months of age and may be an expression of affection.
If the partners are ¼ of the ring or less away from his home position, then they promenade a full circle around to get back to his home.
The roundoff is similar to a cartwheel, except the gymnast lands with two feet placed together on the ground instead of one foot at a time, facing the direction they arrived from.
It is characterized by its energetic, exaggerated arm and leg movements, and it became a cultural phenomenon within the gaming and social media communities.
It requires that the dancer shifts his/her weight from the left leg to the right leg, leans onto his/her right hand and then moves the weight onto his/her left hand/forearm - shoulder while his/her feet leave the ground.
Accomplished breakers may stab to begin the windmill, but they will perform subsequent rotations unstabbed (sometimes called a "forearm mill").
Axe to aerial, in which a leg is raised to shoulder or head height and then swung down (in a fashion similar to an axe kick), whereupon it becomes the leading leg of an aerial.
In later years, this form of swing has been termed "Ballroom Swing" to distinguish it from other forms.
Generally used to refer to retiré passé, indicating passing the foot of the working leg past the knee of the supporting leg (on, below, or above) from back to front or front to back.
For example, a right two-step forward is a forward step onto the right foot, a closing step with the left foot, and a forward step onto the right foot.
Chair Kneespin - A spin on one knee and bringing the right or left foot in front of the non spinning knee ankle of the non spinning foot is placed usually in front of spinning knee kneeling position.
The sequence may start from any of the four steps and may break wherever it is convenient to move into another dance figure or in the opposite direction.
In normal rapier rules, the edge may only be used for draw-cuts (placing the blade and pulling or pushing it on the opponent's body), while under "cut and thrust rapier" rules, percussive blows with the edge are also permitted.
In particular, flesh colored foot thongs endow the wearer with the appearance of having bare feet, while retaining some degree of the traction, cushioning, and abrasion protection provided by acro shoes.
A suicide is also used to demonstrate a possible ending to a conflict that groups may have with each other.
Kick ball change Kickball change is a dance move that consists of a kick followed by the ball change.
By 1970, additional kwans had joined the KTA so the newer set of taegeuk forms was developed to better represent inputs from all the participating kwans.
Inside and outside terminology can not be determined by relativity to partnership as such position alternates every 180 degrees of rotation.
Hand walking is performed in various athletic activities, including acro dance and circus acrobatics.
Air guitar had a seminal moment at the Woodstock music festival in 1969, when singer Joe Cocker mimicked the playing of the keyboard and guitar during his performance of "With a Little Help From My Friends".
This move is a part of a number particular dances, of which twerking has become a viral international sensation after being performed by Miley Cyrus in 2013.
Shorty George and his partner Big Bea had a move, where they stood back-to-back; they locked arms; Big Bea bent over, picking Shorty George up on her back; and then she carried him off the floor, while he kicked his feet.
Footwork The double reverse spin consists of a heel pivot to Viennese cross (the left foot crossing in front of the right foot) for the follower and a reverse turn to toe pivot for the leader.
He later returned to the UK and studied for three years at the Royal Central School of Speech and Drama.
The name Texas Tommy was derived from the dance with the same name, which, around 1910, was the first social dance to feature a breakaway step, from which the swingout developed.
When the angle is much greater than 90° and the body trunk leans forward to counterbalance the working leg, the position is called arabesque penchée.
These observations led ethologist John Bowlby (1969) to suggest that infantile sexual behavior may be the rule in mammals, not the exception.
Notable amongst these were George Dubois, a Parisian fight director and martial artist who created performance fencing styles based on gladiatorial combat as well as Renaissance rapier and dagger fencing.
An anecdote says that when she was asked about her dancing style, she answered, in heavy accent, "I'm shaking my chemise".
The exam requires actors to perform a dramatic scene containing a stage combat fight, choreographed and taught by a BASSC Certified Teacher.
An important element in using a shield is to hold the shield arm in an upper diagonal so the fist is higher than the elbow so the top of the shield does not move when struck, and the danger being hit in the face with the shield or the weapon using to strike it can be avoided.
Among the basic figures of Argentine tango there is a similar "la cruzada" ("crossing) position of the legs.
In grand plié, (in first, second, fourth, and fifth position) While doing a grand-plié position one must remember to have proper alignment.
Display of martial aptitude is a natural occurrence in warrior societies, and ritualized forms of mock combat often evolve into war dances.
In this case, the play refers to how the dance is a mock performance as opposed to ankam which means "fight".
The term is occasionally translated in English as squatting (squat dance, e.g., in a translation of Eugene Onegin).
The Bronze Level syllabus for Western Swing included in the Dance Book written in the 1950s by Arthur Murray Dance Studios National Director, and Los Angeles basin resident, Lauré Haile, defined a "Coaster Step" as cross forward place, or back together side, or back forward back.
In particular, it describes which part of the foot is in contact with the floor: ball, heel, flat, toe, high toe, inside/outside edge, etc.
In some dances (e.g., Polka, Hustle, Electric Slide) it is an eight count figure, often split into two, mirroring each other and called "grapevine to the right" and "grapevine to the left".
(1985), "Jack'n the House" (1985) by Farley "Jackmaster" Funk (1985), "Jack Your Body" by Steve "Silk" Hurley (1986), "The Jack That House Built" by Jack 'n' Chill (1987), or "Jack to the Sound of the Underground" by Hithouse (1988).
Origins and pioneers The move emerged from a similar move called the airtrack, in which one rotates in a vertical axis but does not travel in a circular path.
Prisiadki (singular: Russian: присядка, romanized: prisiadka, plural присядки; Ukrainian: присідання, romanized: prysidannia, or присядки, prysiadky) or vprisiadku dancing (Russian: вприсядку) is a type of male dance move in East Slavic (Russian, Ukrainian) dances.
Street theater often featured mimes who did a mechanical man or puppet style illusion, without music, including performer Robert Shields, who would later perform this style on a wider stage as part of Shields and Yarnell.
Airchair - A chair freeze without the head or feet on the floor, usually facing the ceiling, with leeway for many leg variations.
Squad members often dedicated themselves to deities worshipped in local temples and viewed battle with the enemy as orders given by a god or goddess.
Technique The natural spin turn consists of the first half of a natural turn followed by an under-turned pivot.
An early documented case of cartwheels occurred in Düsseldorf after the Battle of Worringen in which Adolf VIII, Count of Berg, defeated the Archbishop of Cologne in 1288.
Power moves are dance moves which are loosely defined as moves relying on speed, momentum, and acrobatic elements for performance.
There was a change.org petition created by Curtis Hedges of the OBS Group to influence the United States Olympic Committee to recognize Pablo Flores, and more recently Lui Guerrero as the first person in history to perform continuous airflares.
Early evidence of vprisiadku dancing comes from a mid-fourtheenth century Psalter, in which an initial of letter A depicts a skomorokh playing gusli and dancing vprisiadku.
In the first half-turn, one foot is stepped out to the dancer's side in the direction of travel and placed in releve or en pointe; the dancer then rotates 180° on the placed foot while lifting the other foot so that it crosses over the placed foot.
A shimmy or shoulder shakes is a dance move in which the body is held still, except for the shoulders, which are quickly alternated back and forth.
The worm was performed at shows in the 1970s and was popularized widely during the 1980s "funk" period, and continues to be associated with breakdancing.
Though b-boy Kid Freeze is sometimes credited with having invented the headspin, the first known footage of the move is seen in the 1933 film, Wild Boys of the Road.
A person who has assumed a split position is said to be "in a split", or "doing the splits", or "doing a split" (this form is especially encountered in the Eastern United States).
The pelvic thrust is the thrusting motion of the pelvic region, which is used for a variety of activities, such as dance, exercise, or sexual activity.
The promenade in modern western square dance In square dancing, and in particular modern western square dance, when a promenade is called it is understood to be a "couples' promenade" involving all four couples.
During the second and fifth step, the foot is supposed to travel along two sides of the box, rather than along its diagonal.
A fundamental difference between wars enacted within the same tribe and against neighboring tribes is such that "wars between different tribes are in principle wars of extermination".
In some SMR dojos, new students begin their kata training by learning one or more kata from the Seitei Jodo-curriculum due to their relative technical simplicity.
Single promenade: Dancers individually turn to the right, and promenade single-file around the ring.
However, more complex movements are influenced by musicality and lyrical relevance to express emotions or refer to a message.
"The third Method is quite the Reverse, because, instead of the Bouree, the Half Coupee is made first and afterwards the Bouree, or as the French term it, One and a Fleuret, which is usually called the French Step" (Tomlinson 1735, 104).
Acrobatic flips can be initiated from a stationary, standing position, but they are often executed immediately following another rotational move, such as a roundoff or handspring, to take advantage of the angular momentum generated by the preceding move.
Description Yemenite step (tza'ad Temani) is a popular dance performed Jews during weddings and other Jewish occasions.
War dances can overlap with sword dances and other forms of weapon dance, utilizing weapons or replications as part of the artistic performance.
Terminology The term airflare was coined by members of Soul Control, including Barmak Badaei, Babak Badaei, Carlos Alvarez (Inferno), and Jacob Lyons (Kujo), to distinguish the move from the airtrack.
It is one of several ways to get into promenade position and is used to turn dancers around corners or change their direction on the dance floor.
Piqué A piqué turn is begun by stepping directly onto the ball of a relevé (or en pointe) foot, followed by a complete rotation while supported by the relevé (or en pointe) foot before returning to plié position.
However, no sources have been found that exclude the playing of air instruments in ancient times, during private performances, such as for air flute or air lyre (for lyres or harps).
The Art of Dancing Explained by Reading and Figures; Whereby the Manner of Performing the Steps Is Made Easy by a New and Familiar Method: Being the Original Work First Design'd in the Year 1724, and Now Published.
By changing the distance between body and neck, and pressing a combination of the four buttons on the neck part, up to 48 tones and chords can be played.
Leader (man) Follower (lady) References External links Open Telemark and Wing on YouTube demonstrated by Isaia Berardi and Cinzia Birarelli
Movies with notable food fights include The Battle of the Century (1927), The Great Race (1965), Blazing Saddles (1974), and Animal House (1978).
Sophie Wilkinson of The Guardian described naming the dance move a slutdrop an example of the word 'slut' being reclaimed by women, and also reclaiming the term 'slutdrop' from its previous meaning.
A traveling series of jumps where each leg is alternately brought to attitude devant in the air, each foot passing the previous one in alternating.
The dancers had previously performed and introduced the dance at Syracuse, New York, but the audience misheard “Syracuse” as “Susie-Q.” The step The feet perform alternating cross steps and side steps with swivel action, as follows.
Airness—the most subjective criterion, as "presentation" in figure skating—how much the performance was an object of art by itself, not only a simulation of playing guitar.
On 2, swivel on the heel, the right toe swinging to the right, while doing a small step by the left foot to the side, almost in place or simply transferring the weight onto the left foot, or stepping slightly back.
This skill may also include a 360-degree rotation using a torque twist, in which case it is called a back tuck full.
The two hands are generally placed down one after the other, so that the first hand is twisted by 90 degrees and the second hand by almost 180 degrees from the direction of travel.
When dancing 2-step is often used as a move by itself or as a transition into other moves such as powermoves, freezes, toprock and much more.
Similar customs were known to the Dugum Dani and the Chimbu of New Guinea, the Nuer of Sudan and the North American Plains Indians.
Gallery Cultural references The ability to dance prisiadki on prosthetic legs in a Barynya dance for a military pilot was the climax of the patriotic novel The Story of a Real Man by Boris Polevoy.
In the first, little rotation can be seen is in the plane parallel to the floor; the rotation is strictly around the axis of the body.
Their work in dramatic combat is combined with and develops alongside related disciplines, for example Intimacy Directing.
By 1971, the palgwae forms were considered to be deprecated in favor of the newer taegeuk forms, though some schools still teach palgwae forms as well.
See also Tha Butterfly, charting single by rap group Way 2 Real h Clogging Clog dancing Jig Country–western dance == References ==
It is a fundamental b-boying or bgirl power move, and in gymnastics it may be performed on a pommel horse or during the floor exercise.
Many attacks are performed 'out of distance' so that there is no possible chance of one performer accidentally striking the other.
Partnered Suzy Qs In Lindy Hop, Suzy Qs can be performed by couples, either facing each other in open position, or side by side.
Below is a list of the BASSC core weapon syllabus: Weapons Systems: Unarmed Combat Swashbuckling Rapier Rapier & Dagger Broadsword Quarterstaff Sword & Shield Smallsword Knife Rapier & Cloak References External links BASSC Website Richard Ryan Moving Body Arts Independent Drama
Customarily the man (or gent) stands to the left of the lady, his right hip touching or almost touching her left hip.
In taekwondo, taegeuk is a set of Pumsae (also known as Poomsae or Poomse), or defined pattern of defense-and-attack forms used to teach taekwondo.
Rittikrai died in a hospital in Bangkok from complications brought on by acute liver and kidney failure on July 20, 2014.
The right foot is placed flat and the left foot is placed with the toe by the right heel and the left heel raised and this relative position basically maintained during the turning.
Due to this controversy, he was sometimes shown (as seen on his third appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show) from the waist up on TV.
Depending on relative positions and handholds, there are several versions of Botafogos while the basic footwork technique is the same.
The songs used in these Syrian Christian dances often have a very subtle western influence while retaining a traditional folkish tune.
Pike - A freeze with one hand planted on the ground while the entire body is perpendicular to the floor with both feet held high to the air.
Moonwalk The moonwalk is a dance technique that presents the illusion of the dancer being pulled backwards while attempting to walk forward, like this Natural turn Natural turns and some other figures are those in which the dance couple rotates to the right (clockwise).
Aside from the obvious requirement that dancers possess the requisite skills to perform tricks, the types of tricks that can be performed in an acro dance depends on the number of dancers.
Mae West, in her autobiography Goodness Had Nothing to Do with It, claimed to have re-titled the "Shimmy-Shawobble" as the Shimmy, after seeing the moves in some black nightclubs.
The following aspects of footwork may be considered: Dance technique: a proper footwork may be vital for proper posture and movement of a dancer.
The term 1990 was created by ken swift of the Rocksteady crew but the actual move of spinning on one hand was created by Spinner of the Dynamic Rockers who at the time called it a hand spin.
(For example, in Latin-dance walks the toe hits the floor first, rather than the heel.) In dance descriptions the term walk is usually applied when two or more steps are taken in the same direction.
The most well known is the grapevine (or vine for short), a four-count movement to the side." In ballroom dancing a "dance move" is defined as, or requires, the shifting of one's body weight from one foot to the other in time to the music.
In addition to steps, there are also dance movements, such as toe touches, kicks, and hops." Some genres, such as ballet, have, "a clear repertoire of dance steps," thus different types of dance may be characterized by their differing and shared steps.
The original Two-step was a simple dance that first caught on with the public when John Philip Sousa came out with the 'Washington Post March' in 1889." Europe In Europe the two-step became popular from around 1900 until the 1910s, when the one-step and the foxtrot took over.
It was used by Crips at parties to display affiliation, particularly vis-a-vis rival gang the Bloods.
Training was established in the United States with the formation of the Society of American Fight Directors in 1977.
Examples of these group tricks are: Bridge pyramid Triple cartwheel Apparel Footwear Acro dances are typically performed on hard stages with widely varying surfaces.
Other examples of two-step marches include Louis Conterno's Red Clouds March Two Step and Nellie Beamish's Thirteenth National Regiment March and Two Step.
Ball change is a dance move that consists of two steps: a partial weight transfer on the ball of a foot (placed e.g., behind), followed by a step on the other foot.
The sole is made of soft, composite rubber so as to provide both high traction and cushioning, and it provides excellent protection from skin abrasion as it covers the entire bottom of the foot.
Wilkinson states that slutdropping brings women together on the dance floor and called it a "true signifier of feminine camaraderie".
He must always remember to pass his right leg in front of the lady when going forward, just as her left passes in front of him.
Combat reenactment is a side of historical reenactment which aims to depict historical forms of combat.
A roundoff is a move in gymnastics similar to a cartwheel, except the gymnast lands with two feet placed together on the ground instead of one foot at a time, facing the direction of arrival.
Breakers may devote considerable time to developing their toprock, which may include elements of salsa, Lindy Hop, Liquid dancing and the Robot.
These include a parrying dagger (or main gauche), a shield or buckler, a cloak or other flexible item, a cane, stick, or baton, or even a second sword (known as wielding "a case of rapiers").
Michael Jackson and the moonwalk Singer Bobby Brown of New Edition was the one of "three kids" Jackson said taught him the dance step in his autobiography, Moonwalk.
Kata is a loanword in English, from the 1950s in reference to the judo kata due to Jigoro Kano, and from the 1970s also of karate kata; but the word has come to be used as a generic term for "forms" in martial arts in general, or even figuratively applied to other fields.
Handglide Freeze - A stationary Handglide Spinning floats Turtle - This is a standard spinning float.
As opposed to after 1615, when dueling was publicly condemned by King James and the duels were used as a last resort in regard to the plot.
Characteristics A defining characteristic of acro is the smooth, graceful transitions between dance and acrobatic movements.
These moving floats can be made to spin very fast and become the first power moves that were done in the 80's.
This series is the last one taught openly to an advanced student and only dedicated and mature students are allowed to study it.
The left hands are held in front of the lead's waist; the right hands are held in front of the follow's waist.
For example, although there are a number of ways of creating the safe illusion of a slap to the face (which is obviously something that could really be done in combat), none of these involve making actual contact with the victim's face.
Well-known kicklines are formed by the New York Rockettes and the ensemble of Berlin's Friedrichstadt-Palast.
The cartwheel kick is executed by throwing the body into a cartwheel motion, but rather than completing the wheel, the body flexes, while supported by one hand on the ground.
A front aerial is an acrobatic move in which a person executes a complete forward revolution of the body without touching the floor.
Tango In Argentine Tango, a gancho is a sharp move when a dancer hooks a leg around a partner's leg by bending the knee and then straightening.
When all five kata have been taught the student is issued a full License of Total Transmission Menkyo Kaiden.
Another of the earliest documented acrobatic dance performers was Tommy Woods, who became well known for his slow-motion acrobatic dance in Shuffle Along, in which he would execute acrobatic movements precisely in time with the music.
Sexual activity The pelvic thrust is used during copulation by many species of mammals, including humans, or for other sexual activities (such as non-penetrative sex).
International fame With the worldwide releases of Ong-Bak and Tom-Yum-Goong, with their gritty, hard-hitting stunts, action-film fans the world over have wanted to see more, so film distributors are starting to release some of Panna's older titles on DVDs geared for the international market.
A split (commonly referred to as splits or the splits) is a physical position in which the legs are in line with each other and extended in opposite directions.
Also, a dance must have a significant percentage of dance movement, with respect to its acrobatic content, in order for it to be categorized as acro.
Depending on the intended effect, performances may have the aim of presenting historical martial arts reconstruction, or just offer entertainment, and different groups have different standards of authenticity.
The chassé ([ʃase], French for 'to chase'; sometimes anglicized to chasse ) is a waltz ballroom dance figure.
In dance, a front split is named according to the leg that is extended forward (e.g., the right leg is extended forward when executing a right split).
In 1935, the troupe Whitey's Lindy Hoppers (aka the Harlem Congeroos) formed and performed at private parties in New York.
The step is often called "the shuffle" by line dancers, but that has several unrelated meanings in other dance contexts.
By the 1990s, a dancer named Paulo Nunes in Europe had created the variation which is essentially the same move as the modern airflare.
In 1996, the Society of British Fight Directors voted to change its name to the British Academy of Dramatic Combat (BADC).
Taegeuk Poomsae Many schools require that form practice begin with a bow to the flag and/or instructor, but the motions of the forms themselves do not require the bow, nor is it necessary in personal practice.
An Examination of the Philosophy of Bacon (French: Examen de la Philosophie de Bacon) is a posthumous work by Savoyard philosopher Joseph de Maistre, analyzing and criticizing the philosophy of Francis Bacon.
It was widely claimed and believed to possess significant properties that are no longer attributed to it.
The initiative aims to provide accessible information on all Islamic manuscripts in the exact sciences, including astronomy, mathematics, theories, mathematical geography, music, mechanics, and related subjects.
The TIB advises the Leibniz Association's various member organizations, scientists and staff on depositing publications in the repository according to open access guidelines.
His mother was a keen gardener, and other influences such as his uncle, Rev J E Hull, and neighbour, Charles Robson, led him to an early interest in botany and natural history.
He demonstrated that, assuming each of Noah's sons had a son and a daughter each year, and each of them in turn began procreating at the age of thirty, the world population would have been 24,328,000,000 by Nimrod's time.
The Dexter Award was originally established by Sidney Milton Edelstein, a founder of the Dexter Chemical Corporation, to recognize an "outstanding career of contributions to the history of chemistry".
It is constitutive for an aggressive nationalist approach, in which the values of the Eurasian civilisation are contrasted with the Jewish-imbued worldview of the Anglo-Saxon maritime world.
This has evolved into the International System of Units (SI) as a result of a resolution at the 11th General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM) in 1960.
Such weights were adopted in the countries of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and later across Europe, and are still used with minor modifications.
Pinker wrote that Portland State University's investigation struck him and his colleagues "as an attempt to weaponize an important [principle] of academic ethics in order to punish a scholar for expressing an unpopular opinion".
Most of these texts were published in the local vernacular, so their continental spread depended on the language of the readers.
(Cantab.), F.R.G.S.", printed by "The Buighleigh Press" in 1928, full of illustrated detail of anatomy, physiology, ecology, evolution, and historical references, complete with Cro-Magnon cave paintings — all inspired by a car mascot of a pelican.
At that point scientists introduced new evidence in a new way, replacing the idea of continental drift with instead a theory of plate tectonics.
The probability of this occurring is generally considered to be very low, and the IPCC notes, "even in models where the THC weakens, there is still warming over Europe.
In 2007, the legacy of Marie Curie's daughter, Ève Curie, enabled the renovation of the Curie museum, completed in September 2012.
The hoax also featured on the "Threat-Down" segment of the American satirical television show The Colbert Report on 6 March 2006, when host Stephen Colbert suggested a selective breeding program to save blonds.
Overview Chinese philosopher Zou Yan (鄒衍; 305 – 240 BCE) is considered the founder of the school, and is the best known as the representative thinker of the Yin and Yang School (or School of Naturalists) during the Hundred Schools of Thought era in Chinese philosophy.
The room on the second floor of the exhibition is devoted to Tadeusz Pankiewicz, a Roman Catholic who ran the "Under the Eagle" pharmacy in the Kraków Ghetto during the Nazi occupation of Poland.
The publication of Barlow's law delayed research into telegraphy for several years, until 1831 when Joseph Henry and Philip Ten Eyck constructed a circuit 1,060 feet long, which used a large battery to activate an electromagnet.
The directors of these gardens were eminent physicians with an educational role as "scientific gardeners" and it was staff of these institutions that produced many of the published herbals.
The theory currently prevailing, however, is that Francien was one of the dialects in the dialect continuum on top of which an administrative language, untrammeled by perceived regionalisms, was imposed as a compromise means of communication and record to replace Latin.
The machine is provided with four small brushes, two on each side of the machine on the neutralizer bars, plus a pair of charge-collection brushes or combs.
They often collected and preserved natural artefacts such as leaves, flowers, birds' eggs, birds, insects, and small mammals to classify and study.
In 1964, during the thirtieth anniversary of the discovery of artificial radioactivity, display cases were set up to present some of the devices used until the 1930s.
In 1869, Charles Wyville Thomson dredged marine life from a depth of 2,345 fathoms (14,070 ft; 4,289 m), finally dispelling Forbes' azoic theory.
Kinetic energy The modern concept of kinetic energy emerged from the idea of vis viva (living force), which Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz defined over the period 1676–1689 as the product of the mass of an object and its velocity squared; he believed that total vis viva was conserved.
Wilkinson, who also believes Greek Fire was first discovered by the Indians, considers this as the earliest evidence of gunpowder in the world.
Nixon was placed under house arrest in Cuba when he went to visit Vesco — who had fled to Cuba to avoid prosecution for securities fraud — for financing.
Berle served in President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's administration through the Great Depression as a key member of his Brain Trust, developing many New Deal policies.
In light of this evidence, the Azoic hypothesis would come to be seen as a false hypothesis and give way to vastly increased efforts in deep-sea exploration and associated marine life.
Medical Body in Ancient Greece Greek philosophers separated the body and the energy of the body into separate but equal and interacting categories.
After earning a degree in engineering and a doctorate in history, he joined the History faculty at Worcester Polytechnic Institute and published many works exploring the history of science, technology, and psychology.
In his "De Revolutionibus Orbium Coelestium", in the year 1530, Nicolaus Copernicus quotes the works of al-Zarqali and Al-Battani.
He obtained a PhD in 1959 on the thesis Contributions to the stratigraphy and palaeontology of the Silurian and Devonian of Gippsland.
François-Antoine Jecker (November 14, 1765 – September 30, 1834) was a French scientific-instrument maker.
Instead of air, the gaps between the teeth of the gear wheel may be filled with a solid electrical insulator such as ebony wood.
350 BC) analyzed different forms of the state (monarchy, aristocracy, constitutional government, tyranny, oligarchy, and democracy) as a critique of Plato's model of rule by philosopher-kings.
This is somewhat similar to a view attributed to Anaximander, whereby the firmament is made of a mixture of hot and cold (or fire and moisture).
Participants The expedition included the following named participants: Louis Agassiz, Swiss-American zoologist, ichthyologist, geologist, and leader of the expedition.
The papers all described the discovery of a new cancer drug extracted from a lichen, but the data did not support that conclusion and the papers had intentionally obvious flaws.
Václav Frič (1839–1916) Prague Hans Fruhstorfer Alfred George Gabriel (1884–1968) English butterfly dealer who also worked for the British Museum.
Duarte's work in this area began with the demonstration of narrow-linewidth laser emission using coumarin-tetramethyl dyes which offer high conversion efficiency and wide tunability in the green region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
The Hohokam tribe in Arizona also managed their water resources up until 1450, and created irrigation networks that were more extensive than any other irrigation system created during their time.
Early attempts at determining ages of uranium minerals and rocks by Ernest Rutherford, Bertram Boltwood, Robert Strutt, and Arthur Holmes, would culminate in what are considered the first international geological time scales by Holmes in 1911 and 1913.
Maistre also argues that genius plays a pivotal role in great scientific discoveries, as demonstrated by inspired intellects such as Johannes Kepler, Galileo Galilei, and Isaac Newton, contrary to Bacon's theory about conforming to a mechanistic method.
The book also contains chapters from other scholars such as Emmanuel Didier, Martine Mespoulet, Tom Lang, Corine Eyraud and others.
Attractions A demo of Babbage's unfinished Difference engine was on display for guests at some of the gatherings.
The story of buried treasure on Tower Island connected with this trip was apparently known to Captain Lindbridge during this voyage, but the information was not revealed until after the group had left Tower Island.
The International Scientific Committee on Price History was created in 1929 by William Beveridge and Edwin Francis Gay after receiving a five-year grant from the Rockefeller Foundation.
The museum attracted incredible international attention since the school's founding and was a critical component of the school's identity in the eighteenth century.
The principles of this type of clock are described by the mathematician and physicist Hero, who says that some of them work with a chain that turns a gear in the mechanism.
A substance can be discredited in one of three ways: It was widely believed to exist at one time but no longer is.
After Galileo began using a telescope to examine the sky it became harder to argue that the heavens were perfect, as Aristotelian philosophy suggested, and by 1630 the concept of solid orbs was no longer dominant.
The theodolite, which emerged in the sixteenth century, eventually surpassed the dioptra in accuracy and ease of use due to technological advancements and refinements in optical and mechanical components.
Her book The Brother Gardeners was long-listed for the Samuel Johnson Prize and received a CBHL Annual Literature Award in 2010.
The museum, dedicated to astronomer and scientist Galileo Galilei, is housed in Palazzo Castellani, an 11th-century building which was then known as the Castello d'Altafronte.
As the discipline changed, so did the nature of the men involved, and the image of the tragic Romantic genius often found in art, literature, and music may also be applied to such mathematicians as Évariste Galois (1811–1832), Niels Henrik Abel (1802–1829), and János Bolyai (1802–1860).
It issues the electronic quarterly New Acquisitions of Slavic Studies Publications in the Collections of the Slavonic Library.
Nunes was, above all, one of the last great commentators, as is shown by his first published work “Tratado da Esfera”, enriched with comments and additions that denote a profound knowledge of the difficult cosmography of the period.
In many ways, the debate between proponents of these two views can be seen as a continuation of the early modern debate between the view that there is absolute time (defended by Isaac Newton) and the view that there is only merely relative time (defended by Gottfried Leibniz).
Pound finds this situation "inexcusable AFTER the era of 'Agassiz and the fish'" and demands an approach to general education that "parallels ...
Statistical activities are often associated with models expressed using probabilities, hence the connection with probability theory.
Context ABC of Reading Pound opens ABC of Reading with the following pronouncement: The proper METHOD for studying poetry and good letters is the method of contemporary biologists, that is careful first-hand examination of the matter, and continual COMPARISON of one 'slide' or specimen with another.
His work introduced the view of philosophy as "critique of language", discussing theoretical distinctions between intelligible and nonsensical discourse.
The advantage of the design was that since there was no electric field in the interior of the terminal, the charge on the belt could continue to be discharged onto the terminal regardless of how high the voltage on the terminal was.
Parson-naturalists See also List of Christian thinkers in science Science in the Age of Enlightenment References Bibliography Armstrong, Patrick (2000).
The philosophy of motion was of central concern to Ancient Greek and Roman philosophers, particularly the pre-Socratic philosophers such as Parmenides, Zeno of Elea, Heraclitus and Democritus.
By combining the electrical properties of Marconi's radar-absorbing material with his new man-made magnetic material he had unwittingly placed in his hands a new way to manipulate electromagnetic radiation.
The prize is given to the author of "a book in the history of the life sciences and natural history," published in the previous four years.
Ohm's law in modern usage is rarely stated with this explicit term, but nevertheless an awareness of it is necessary for a full understanding of the current in a circuit.
L’économie est une science réflexive, Chômage, convention et capacité dans l’œuvre de Robert Salais, Presses Universitaires du Septentrion.
Bird found that there were some conditions for which this treatment did not work, mostly conditions where the brain or nervous system had been damaged such as epilepsy.
The story plays an important part in Serrano's Esoteric Hitlerism, in which the world is heading towards an ultimate combat between the Aryan forces of Light and the forces of Darkness, embodied in the false ideologies of Judeo-Christianity.
Frank Blake Webster's Naturalists Supply Depot 409 Washington Street, Hyde Park, Massachusetts Walter Freeman Webb (1869–1957) Shell dealer St.
Background Baron was inspired to write the book after viewing his first total solar eclipse in Aruba in 1998.
In 1882 the German scientist Hermann von Helmholtz proved that affinity was not given by the heat evolved in a chemical reaction but rather by the maximum work, or free energy, produced when the reaction was carried out reversibly.
Etymology and definitions Magnetizer The terms magnetizer and mesmerizer have been applied to people who study and practice animal magnetism.
The acceptance of this theory brought scientific and cultural change which commentators called the "Plate Tectonics Revolution".
The Montauk Project was alleged to be a series of secret United States government projects conducted at Camp Hero or Montauk Air Force Station on Montauk, Long Island, for the purpose of exotic research, including time travel.
The philosophy entailed the belief that God, as the Creator of all things, wanted man to understand his Creations and thus to study them through scientific techniques.
It has been proposed that the Sodré astrolabe is a transitional instrument between the classic planispheric astrolabe from which the first mariner's astrolabes made of brass were adapted and the open‐wheel type astrolabe that came into use sometime before 1517.
It is an initiative of the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science (MPIWG), which is dedicated to advancing scientific knowledge and research.
Other scholars, however, have noted that early mechanical philosophers nevertheless believed in magic, Christianity and spiritualism.
Goethe's interplay of Licht and Finsternis can also be seen in Hahnemann's polarity between Geist (Spirit) and Wesen (Dynamis).
Mesmerism has been used in parts of the world as an attempt to treat illness in humans, as well as disease in domestic, farm, circus, and zoo animals.
List of recipients References External links The Leonardo da Vinci Medal – Society for the History of Technology
Ethical issues such as bioethics and scientific misconduct are often considered ethics or science studies rather than philosophy of science.
It was a biological and geological expedition undertaken by multiple scientists, several based at Harvard University, between April 1865 and August 1866.
Alsted's vision was that with the right methodologies of teaching and application, any person could have access to a perfect knowledge of all sciences.
Wirth turned to his students (there were two or three unfinished copies), but the mysterious strangers had also visited them.
Nahin has suggested that a short story by Horace Gold (using the pen name Dudley Dell) called "The Biography Project" published in Galaxy Science Fiction magazine might have provided the inspiration for Ernetti's claim.
How does the already existing mathematics influence in the creation and development of physical theories?
In 1996 the US Congress asked the General Accounting Office to investigate the HIID activities in the Russian aid program after multiple complaints to the congressional office had been made.
In the objectivist stream, the statistical analysis depends on only the model assumed and the data analysed.
This is because the position may be at a fraction of a degree and a large arc allows one to read smaller graduations with greater accuracy.
This alone resulted in millions of pounds of revenue being generated from the patents CRL had inherited as part of the management buy-out from EMI.
Earliest known reference to a map (圖 tú) The oldest reference to a map in China comes from the 3rd century BC.
Concepts: is dedicated to central concepts like reflex, function and consciousness and their respective histories.
There is one similar item, identified in 1939 by Carl William Blegen in a Museum in Nafplio, Greece.
Exposition The museum contains a permanent historical exhibition on radioactivity and its applications, notably in medicine, focusing primarily on the Curies, and displays some of the most important research apparatus used before 1940.
Age of steam Drawing directly from Cayley's work, Henson's 1842 design for an aerial steam carriage broke new ground.
Once the instrument's position and bearing to a star is determined, the bearing can be transferred to a reference point on Earth.
10th century Abu Bakr al-Razi (Rhazes) introduces controlled experiment into the field of medicine and carried out the first medical experiment in order to find the most hygienic place to build a hospital.
Awards and honors He was elected in 2008 a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
The Centre for History and Philosophy of Science is a research centre devoted to the historical and philosophical study of science, technology and medicine, based in the School of Philosophy, Religion and History of Science, at the University of Leeds in West Yorkshire, England.
In many cases, a well-understood experimental system can be "black-boxed" as a standard technique, which can then be a component of other experimental systems.
It also briefly retells the various myths and folklore connected with stars in the Greco-Roman tradition, as well as in the Arabic, Babylonian, Indian and Chinese traditions (for which, however, some modern criticism having taken it to task, claiming it to be largely superseded).
2002 — Nancy Tomes, The Gospel of Germs: Men, Women and the Microbe in American Life (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1998).
These were followed in 1782 by Two Dithyrambic Odes on Enthusiasm and Laughter, and by a series of Tales in Verse.
During a 1961 lecture for undergraduate students at the California Institute of Technology, Richard Feynman, a celebrated physics teacher and Nobel Laureate, said this about the concept of energy: There is a fact, or if you wish, a law, governing natural phenomena that are known to date.
Other copies, manufactured primarily by Johnson Matthey beginning in 1879, were distributed to national metrology institutes of countries that had ratified and conformed to the Treaty of the Metre (and to certain non‑national organisations).
Natura non facit saltus (Latin for "nature does not make jumps") has been an important principle of natural philosophy.
The mirror represents images faithfully, but retains none; our canvas reflects them no less faithfully, but retains them all.
Heinrich Lenz pointed out that Ohm took into account "all the conducting resistances … of the circuit", whereas Barlow did not.
John Philoponus, another Byzantine scholar, was the first to question Aristotle's teaching of physics, introducing the theory of impetus.
William attended Caulfield Technical School and worked at his brother's firm during the Second World War.
All the engraved characters are in Latin, this fact made the scholars think that the instrument was made in Christian Europe.
In addition to the collection and growing of live plants in the gardens, came the establishment of the hortus siccus (dry garden) for dried specimens and the physic garden for medicinal plants.
Further revisions of the Hubble constant by Sandage and Gustav Tammann in the 1970s gave values around 50–60 (km/s)/Mpc, and an inverse of 16-20 billion years, consistent with globular cluster ages.
The second, the International Committee for Weights and Measures (CIPM), was an advisory committee of metrologists of high standing.
The Thayer Expedition was an American scientific expedition to Brazil, sponsored by Boston businessman Nathaniel Thayer Jr.
Küng addresses paradigm change in his books, Paradigm Change in Theology and Theology for the Third Millennium: An Ecumenical View.
His parents, medical professionals (his mother a pediatrician and his father a cardiac surgeon), died in a car accident the year he graduated from secondary school.
In 1935, with more donations, the museum's name was changed to the Museum of the History of Science.
Published reports For some countries, principal divisions of executive governments have published reports that compile formerly used weights and measures.
Smooth (laminar) flow starts to break up when the size of the obstruction or the velocity of the flow become large enough compared to the viscosity of the fluid.
Aftermath After the failure of the prediction, Martin was threatened with arrest and involuntary commitment, and left Chicago.
Since the 1990s, at least three well-received scholarly biographies have been produced: Darwin (1991) by Adrian Desmond and James Moore (with the alternative title Darwin: The Life of a Tormented Evolutionist when published in America); Charles Darwin: The Man and His Influence (1996) by Peter J.
In the sixth century in the Byzantine Empire, Isidore of Miletus compiled Archimedes' mathematical works in the Archimedes Palimpsest, where all Archimedes' mathematical contributions were collected and studied.
Studies have shown that it is physically possible for flying animals to reach 18-metre (59 ft) wingspans, but there is no firm evidence that any flying animal, not even the azhdarchid pterosaurs, got that large.
The tree reflected the marked division between the arts and sciences, which was largely a result of the rise of empiricism.
Porter, Trust in Numbers: The Pursuit of Objectivity in Science and Public Life, Princeton University Press, 1995.
In addition to physically building these homes, the Ancestral Puebloans used mathematical knowledge like the golden ratio - which has been used to make the Egyptian pyramids, Ancient Greek architecture and the Notre Dame - to construct a Sun Temple.
Metamaterials on antenna solutions.// 7th International Conference on Antenna Theory and Techniques ICATT'09, Lviv, Ukraine, October 6–9, 2009.
// Bacon, absolutely destitute of the spirit of analysis, not only did not know how to resolve questions, but did not even know how to pose them.” “Bacon, man étranger à toutes les sciences et dont toutes les idées fondamentales étaient fausses.
The crew also recorded 27 species of ferns and 35 species of flowering plant, as well as 95 invertebrates.
The philosophy of motion is important in the study of theories of change in natural systems and is closely connected to studies of space and time in philosophy.
The back cover of the 2007/2011 Euston Grove Press print of the monograph says it was a mockery of heavily promoted Central Asiatic Expeditions of Roy Chapman Andrews and the American Museum of Natural History.
They observed, in some cases before anyone else, the colored bands on Jupiter's surface, the Andromeda nebula and Saturn's rings.
Forbes reported his findings from the Aegean Sea in his 1843 report to the British Association entitled Report on the Mollusca and Radiata of the Aegean Sea.
According to the April 1907 issue of the Scientific American magazine, the Wright brothers seemed to have the most advanced knowledge of heavier-than-air navigation at the time.
Pluckrose argued that all of these fields derive their underlying theoretical perspectives from the postmodern philosophy that developed in the late 1960s.
The history and philosophy of science (HPS) is an academic discipline that encompasses the philosophy of science and the history of science.
In some cases, the hypothetical scenario might be considered metaphysically impossible, or impossible in any sense at all.
Reuben's work had actually come under scrutiny as early as 2007, when several anesthesiologists noticed his studies never showed negative results.
1507–1458 BCE) dispatched an expedition to bring back frankincense from Punt (probably modern day Somalia).
Apart from that, he pointed out that the brain was at the top of the body, far from the centre of the body, and felt cold.
One item of particular note is the magnificent Charles X case, manufactured in the United States in the middle of the 19th century, which contains a total of 130 instruments for the maintenance and extraction of teeth.
mental structures, properties, attributes, values, ideals, etc.) Field The field of a whole is not something different and additional to it, it is the continuation of the whole beyond its sensible contours of experience.
Smith argues that these visual sources can be mined for information about the other four senses in order to gain a more complete understanding of past sensory experiences.
Summary Written by Abraham Wolf as a sequel to A History of Science, Technology, and Philosophy in the 16th and 17th Centuries (1935), the book was first published in 1939.
Kircher explained that the distance from the Earth to the lowest celestial sphere, that of the Moon, was twenty-five earth diameters.
Other theories for the sphere are that it was used for astronomical calculations, thus as an armillary sphere or for use in spherical astronomy.
Historical conflict thesis Before the 19th century, no one had pitted "science" against "religion" or vice versa in writing.
The French researcher Marcel Destombes founded the astrolabe, and left it as legacy to the Institute of the Arab World of Paris in 1983.
In 1994, in the first AIDS medical fraud case to come to trial in the United States, a Los Angeles County jury ordered two doctors and a hospital that used Viroxan to pay five patients a total of $2.7 million.
One of the objectives is to punish the inhabitants of the islands of Tanna for mistreating a missionary.
In 2016, she won the Royal Society Insight Investment Science Book Prize and the Royal Geographical Society's Ness Award for her book The Invention of Nature.
The peer review provided by PLOS ONE was reported to be the most rigorous of all, and it was the only journal that identified the paper's ethical problems, for example the lack of documentation of how animals were treated in the creation of the cancer cell lines.
Insect flight is considerably different, due to their small size, rigid wings, and other anatomical differences.
Despite their rejection of pagan thinking, the Church Fathers benefited from Greek dialectic and ontology by inheriting a technical language that could help express solutions to their concerns.
The "Time Traveling Hipster" became a case study in viral Internet phenomena which was presented at the Museums and the Web 2011 conference in Philadelphia.
However, many of his fossils were revealed to be fake or manipulated, and he became infamous for large-scale scientific fraud, the case that came to be known as the Himalayan fossil hoax.
The medal is a circular bronze medallion designed by the Hungarian expressionist sculptor András Beck.
Leaders Arnold Thackray, the institution's first president, was awarded the 1983 Dexter Award for his contributions to the history of chemistry.
Since 7 October 1999, the FTI offices are located within the premises of the Technopolis centre and the name of the organization was changed to Technopolis.
See also Sex in space References External links NASA Experiments with Sex in Space at Snopes.com Space sex hoax rises again
In the lower part there is a large conical depression which ends with a big rectangular hole, likely made to secure the base.
Philosophical Magazine Letters print: ISSN 0950-0839 Philosophical Magazine Letters online: ISSN 1362-3036
Social Text, as an academic journal, published the article not because it was faithful, true, and accurate to its subject, but because an "academic authority" had written it and because of the appearance of the obscure writing.
Gustave-Gaspard Coriolis described "kinetic energy" in 1829 in its modern sense, Thermodynamics It was argued for some years whether energy was a substance (the caloric) or merely a physical quantity.
4th century BC: Around the time of Aristotle, a more empirically founded system of anatomy is established, based on animal dissection.
Most contemporary historians of science now reject the conflict thesis in its original form and no longer support it.
When the shadow of the rings are aligned so that they appear to be in the same, or nearly the same, place, the meridian identifies itself.
His theory attempted to explain the universe in terms of basic forces in nature: the complementary agents of yin (dark, cold, female, negative) and yang (light, hot, male, positive) and the Five Elements or Five Phases (metal, wood, water, fire, and earth).
The patient was then charged with static electricity either by direct connection to one electrode of the generator (usually the positive), or else through electrostatic induction by holding a large electrode close to the patient's body.
Leonard Digges described a theodolite that measured horizontal angles in his book A geometric practice named Pantometria (1571).
The museum was founded by Stanisław Proń, legal counsel and administrative director of the Regional Chamber of Pharmacists in Kraków.
(Of course, if the bars were actually vertical, the electric field would not polarize them and the machine would cease to work.) Applications Wimshurst machines were used during the 19th century in physics research.
Pope Urban VIII had asked that his own views on the matter be included in Galileo's book, and were voiced by a character named "Simplicio", who was a simpleton.
Copies 75–special designations — Late‑period and special‑purpose prototypes: later allocations, non‑sequential or experimental artefacts, and prototypes intended for particular scientific or commemorative purposes, each with its own custodial context.
Although suspended for 11 months, Panjab University permitted him continued service until his normal retirement in 2002.
This is mostly seen in Traditional Chinese medicine and has today been explained in physical ways by modern science.
The lamp was invented by Friedrich von Hefner-Alteneck in 1884 and he proposed its use as a standard flame for photometric purposes with a luminous intensity unit of the Hefnerkerze (HK).
Neeff's wheel, also known as the Blitzrad (German: "lightning wheel" or "spark wheel") is a historical electrical apparatus.
Botanical expeditions have been driven by a number of motives, such as scientific discovery, economic incentives in terms of resources or for the horticultural trade, such as the Veitch enterprise in the late 19th century.
Dawkins suggested that the investigation could be politically motivated: "If the members of your committee of inquiry object to the very idea of satire as a form of creative expression, they should come out honestly and say so.
Fertilizer is a major contribution to agriculture history increasing the fertility of the soil and minimizing nutrient loss.
Degree courses The department offers a nine-month MPhil course in history, philosophy and sociology of science, medicine and technology.
1766), which hangs in the Derby Museum and Art Gallery, depicts a group listening to a lecture by a natural philosopher.
Gave this definition of algebra: "[it is concerned] with operating on unknowns using all the arithmetical tools, in the same way as the arithmetician operates on the known." 1135: Sharaf al-Din al-Tusi.
The expedition’s purpose was to study various aspects of the island's flora and fauna and to perform geological and cartographic surveys.
Sea ring In 1610, Edward Wright created the sea ring, which mounted a universal ring dial over a magnetic compass.
It is not surprising that Romanticism, a scientific endeavor and quest, involved the cultural sciences or humanities (epistemology, philology, literature, poetry, arts, etc.), as well as the natural sciences.
In 1784 the Turk was visited in London by the prebendary Edmund Cartwright, who was so intrigued that he questioned whether it would be more difficult to construct a power loom than a device that would play chess.
References External links Basque Museum of the History of Medicine and Science The museum in the bulletin of the European Association of Museums of the History of Medical Sciences Virtual exhibition about electrotherapy Virtual exhibition about Stultifera navis.
One of the men reportedly exclaimed, "I declare, some old Indian has been buried here!" Exhibition and exposure as fraud On the first day, visitors were able to view the giant with no fee charged.
1920 – Otto Stern and Walter Gerlach conduct the Stern–Gerlach experiment, which demonstrates particle spin.
The commission of the Academy of Sciences included Majault, Benjamin Franklin, Jean Sylvain Bailly, Jean-Baptiste Le Roy, Sallin, Jean Darcet, de Borey, Joseph-Ignace Guillotin, and Antoine Lavoisier.
The effect of the practice is to divert purchasers who need the primary product to the bundling seller and away from other sellers of only the secondary product.
Activity includes psychology, sociology, anthropology, semiotics, economics, management science, and (since the advent of the information revolution about 1992) many fields related to information technology and engineering.
As one blogger expressed: If I stopped using Skype, I'd lose contact with many people, because it's impossible to make them all change to [other] software.
The word "natural" can also be a loaded term – much like the word "normal", in some contexts, it can carry an implicit value judgment.
A loss leader (also leader) is a pricing strategy where a product is sold at a price below its market cost to stimulate other sales of more profitable goods or services.
In August 2022, Deadline reported that film studio Steel Springs Pictures had partnered with WNRS to produce non-fiction and scripted series based on the game, exploring human emotion and connection as part of their new Non-Fiction division.
For the first five days of the program, all Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep dealerships in the United States were open until midnight to support the program, a first in the company's history.
Determining how many and which consumers within a particular social network should be seeded to maximize adoption is a challenging task for a firm.
In the STEPS trial Pfizer presented their drug Neurontin in a way that merged pharmaceutical marketing with research.
These advertisements are also available to be shared by the viewers, adding to the attractiveness of this platform.
A TMS allows marketers and developers to efficiently deploy, update, and manage these tags without extensive manual coding, and can also be used to implement dynamic website or application changes based on user behavior or contextual data.
Setting media objectives In terms of setting media objectives, the planner needs to address several key decisions: Who do we want to talk to?
During the company's 18-year run, over 70 different sets were released and it is estimated that about one billion R&L toys were delivered around the world.
Therefore, significant installed base normally makes aftermarket profitable as an established installed base is likely to consume the aftermarket products repeatedly over the lifespan of their durable goods.
They may work for design companies contracted to work for clients or for department stores, independent retailers, airport or hotel shops.
NFL Sunday Ticket - Exclusive to YouTube for residential and mobile accounts*, available to DirecTV for business accounts.
Customers may lose trust in retailers if they feel they have been deceived by vanity sizing, which could alter their perspectives of a brand.
This manipulation occurs through offensive or inflammatory headlines, memes, tropes, or comments that provoke users to respond in kind.
Legal issues United States In the United States, there exists three most commonly legal claims related to web scraping: compilation copyright infringement, violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), and electronic trespass to chattel claims.
From an online seller's point of view, this is an extension of the payment settlement and an additional incentive to invest in paid advertising projects.
In addition, injection molding for plastics required much less cool-down time for the toys, because the plastic is not completely melted before injected into the molds.
Static Control Components the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled that circumvention of Lexmark's ink cartridge lock does not violate the DMCA.
In Los Angeles, California, between the intersections of Pico and Hauser Blvd until Venice and Lincoln Crossing, billboards featuring Jewish texts and teachings were placed to be visible by many drivers.
See also Devumi Ghost followers Influence-for-hire Social media marketing Viral marketing References External links Official website
It remains unclear if the enigma involves a genuinely solvable puzzle as part of an early Internet-based contest or was a convoluted hoax.
As social media expands and new platforms come into existence, new ways of advertising are projected to be created.
Stunt casting is the use of a gimmick or publicity stunt to fill a role in a television series, film, or theatre production.
Advertising about advertisements is a form of viral advertising, whereby advertisers seek to garner attention for their ad and therefore product.
Offer well-integrated tools and services compatible with established and popular standards that have been developed in the Internet community.
The seducer defrauds the consumer by first gaining their confidence and exploiting certain characteristics.
Popular uses of virtual events include virtual tradeshows, virtual job fairs, virtual conferences, virtual sales meetings, virtual college open days, and virtual company-wide gatherings.
Kellogg’s 3D Baseball and Football Cards produced by Optigraphics were a big hit from 1970 to 1983 in packages of Kellogg's cereals, initially Corn Flakes and later other brands.
Adobe Flash Player or YouTube's Android application) deliberately unserviceable, even though they would still technically, albeit not economically, be able to function as intended.
RGX employed the Internet to create buzz via a men's lifestyle website called RGX Life, followed by television, print, and public relations activities.
He then briefly introduces the item being blended before placing it into the blender and starting it.
People identify themselves by what they buy, if they are manipulated into buying products—the way they see themselves can leave lasting impacts if they notice what is happening.
How Do You Sell?: This segment every week looked at advertising tactics used by advertisers to choose one product over another.
History In 1952, Dayton Company commissioned Victor Gruen to build the first indoor, climate controlled shopping mall, Southdale Center, in Edina, Minnesota.
The owner of the account was revealed to be Chris Godfrey, a British advertising creative, who later worked with his two friends Alissa Khan-Whelan and CJ Brown on a Hulu commercial featuring the egg, intended to raise mental health awareness.
The third method is attaching the prize to the box - "on-pack" promotion - (as with plastic records laminated to the back of the box) or printing the prize on the box (as with numerous games and trading cards) or simply attaching the prize to the box with tape or shrink wrap.
Dynamic versus static Most campaign creatives are optimized statically, i.e., a few alternate ad creatives are developed and then tested using a split sample to select the best performing creative.
Most CCM technologies offer data extraction capabilities that allow marketers and businesses to combine data from multiple systems across their business to perform customer analysis before composing communications.
However, it does not ban spam emailing outright, but imposes laws on using deceptive marketing methods through headings which are "materially false or misleading".
Product bundling Product churning Vendor lock-in Digital rights management Tying of the iPhone to AT&T References Bibliography Donald Turner, Tying Arrangements Under the Antitrust Laws, 72 Harv.
These stands are typically situated in high traffic areas such as shopping malls, university campuses, public transport hubs and entertainment venues.
In the famous Pepsi Challenge, people took a sip from two different unlabelled glasses, not knowing which was Coke and which was Pepsi.
Industry growth has been driven by increased promotional activity linked to major sporting events and rising demand for unique, high-quality branded products.
In addition, Agensys will work on providing a cancer treatment drug at an earlier stage with a smaller chance of risk through milestone payments.
Marketing controversy After the introduction of the beverage in March 2003, there was controversy over the strategy of marketing agency Richards Interactive to capitalize on the then-novel weblog phenomenon.
References in other media A television program on Australia's ABC TV network, called The Gruen Transfer, is named after the effect.
See also Ambush marketing Field marketing Local store marketing Out-of-home advertising Reverse graffiti Street team References External links Street Marketing | what is Street Marketing?
The x402 open standard repurposes the HTTP 402 "Payment Required" status code to enable payments directly within the HTTP request–response cycle, eliminating the need for user accounts, sessions, or traditional payment intermediaries.
For example, songs titled, "Up!/Higher", "The Sound of Letting Go/Love", and "Little Hope/Sing a Song of Fire" all pertain to lyrics in iamamiwhoami's songs, "b", "o", and "y", respectively.
The trend most often refers to the figurines as "Tiny Jesus", "Little Jesus", or "Mini Jesus." History The trend started in January 2024 at Lighthouse Church in Hampton, South Carolina, after a group of youth decided to place a large number of the figurines around the premises.
In shopping mall design, the Gruen transfer (also known as the Gruen effect) is the moment when consumers enter a shopping mall or store and, surrounded by an intentionally confusing layout, lose track of their original intentions, making them more susceptible to making impulse buys.
Content sharing Early history Before writing and while most people were illiterate, the dominant means of spreading memes was oral culture like folk tales, folk songs, and oral poetry, which mutated over time as each retelling presented an opportunity for change.
Larger clothing sizes may influence consumers to purchase more clothing items to improve their self-esteem.
This is what makes seduction different from fraud, where the relationship is coercive in nature and the consumer has not shown any complicity.
Even if the consumer does not know of a product's existence, predictive buying technology can, through an analysis of the consumer's interactions on other websites, purchase history and other factors, bring that product to the consumer's attention.
This may also be used by manufacturers to limit what a consumer can do with a low-end model and encourage them to upgrade should they want more autonomy.
One can even try sending a personalized message via email or text, but a high-quality direct-mail envelope and letter are more likely to generate a response in this scenario.
Fear, uncertainty and doubt Fear, uncertainty and doubt (FUD) is the appeal to fear in sales or marketing; in which a company disseminates negative (and vague) information on a competitor's product.
The idea was first widely publicized in the book Lovemarks by Kevin Roberts, CEO of the advertising agency Saatchi & Saatchi.
The forms that wait marketing may take are varied and typically involve various other marketing strategies such as visual advertising and video.
Research by Yannis Bakos and Erik Brynjolfsson found that bundling was particularly effective for digital information goods with close to zero marginal cost, and could enable a bundler with an inferior collection of products to drive even superior quality goods out of the market place.
Film novelizations were particularly popular before the invention of home video, but continue to find commercial success as part of marketing campaigns for major films.
The promotion also led to creative spin-offs with consumers upcycling the miniature products for wearable art competitions, again expanding Foodstaffs consumer reach.
Statement-based marketing is effective because it enables customized offers to be automatically generated by the transactional data within the document itself.
Benchmarks suggested that compared to its predecessor, Office 2008 ran at similar speeds on Intel machines and slower speeds on PowerPC machines.
For instance, by 2014, Facebook had reached over 1.2 billion monthly active users, which created opportunities for marketers to use a virtual platform to further connect and communicate with customers.
The marketing strategy that he established has produced thousands of different cereal box prizes that have been distributed by the tens of billions.
The problem with this approach is subjects may modify their behaviour when they know they are being watched.
SOSTAC is an acronym for Smith's six fundamental facets of marketing: situation, objectives, strategy, tactics, action and control.
Close Range Marketing is an emerging technology that allows businesses to both promote goods and services and involve their customers in interacting with the business.
Some people believe that the popularity of unboxing videos is due to the ability to provide an authentic look at the product without any manipulative advertising.
Smarketing works best when a firm does closed loop reporting by tracking its success with particular prospects from the marketing stage through direct sales efforts.
Social K-factor With the advent of social media, a new evolution to the K-factor concept has emerged.
The pricing is not just for a one time dollar amount; high-end fees can be "$3,000 a month" (part of which is for renting replacement furniture).
Moreover, many affinity marketing efforts fail to tailor the promoted goods and services to that affinity group's specific needs.
In some commercials, idols sing a short song dedicated to the product they are selling, such as SHINee's short commercial song that emphasized characteristics of a Korean snack called "bbushuh bbushuh".
The authors concluded vaccine bundling is inconsistent with the goals of the National Vaccine Program Office and at odds with public health.
Rogue investigator Blake posts videos of her traveling around the world (mostly Europe) to uncover the secret agenda of the Hanso Foundation.
Mass-media approaches are declining as advances in database technology enable collection of detailed information on customers.
The list of complaints have been submitted at Hellenic Parliament calling for immediate action from the Ministry of Labour and Social Security.
It can be received in the forms of: email flyers, messages via texts, advertising on the television or radio, physical flyers and telephone calls (Stein, & Ramaseshan, 2016).
Numerous shopping malls opened using similar design features, and were very popular until the 1990s.
By some accounts, Microsoft ties together Microsoft Windows, Internet Explorer, Windows Media Player, Outlook Express and Microsoft Office.
The term viral media differs from spreadable media as the latter refers to the potential of content to become viral.
Customer communications management (CCM) is software that companies uses to communicate with their customers.
In 2004, the Mel Gibson-directed The Passion of the Christ opened to $83.8M domestically and went on to gross $611M worldwide.
The informal luncheon at small tables calls for service by a number of maids, hence the "buffet" plan is preferable.
The authors also note that social media advertising is more likely to enhance brand image and foster brand loyalty than to drive sales of a particular product.
Netflix state that their research indicates that people focus on key art for 1.8 seconds, and that such artwork is the biggest influence upon their viewers' decisions to engage with content.
The episodes are in-world canon, serving up brand-new information that bridges the story gap between season 2 and 3.
A user receives a coupon notification from an application that he previously installed saying that there is a store nearby that he can make use of that coupon.
Deloitte found that, in fact, customers who use a digital device in-store as part of their shopping process were actually more likely to make a purchase – not less.
Fashion companies use social media platforms to reach customers on emotional levels and stoke engagement with brand images and messages.
Next, the participants were introduced to Windows "Mojave." This was Windows Vista, rebranded to prevent preconceived bias.
This lift over the base is often used as the weight for that characteristic inside the attribution model.
For example, a 2018 Seattle business magazine story disclosing that co-founder and former CEO James Sinegal cursed out then-CEO W.
In the late 1990s and early 2000s, electronica music was increasingly used as background scores for television advertisements, initially for automobiles, and later for other technological and business products such as computers and financial services.
In 2009, the Federal Trade Commission released their Endorsement Guideline specifically to increase consumer awareness of endorsements and testimonials in advertising given the rise in popularity of social media and blogging.
While there are numerous variations, most opening credits use some variation of the following basic order.
With its micro-blogging facilities, users can share their thoughts quickly and promptly, view the latest trending topics, and search the profiles of people without the need to "follow" them.
Most kids' meals come in colorful bags or cardboard boxes with depictions of activities/games on the bag or box and a toy inside.
People tend to look for instant gratification, and wait marketing feeds this need for occupation in periods of waiting.
The card should be held at the top two corners, face up and turned so that it can be read by the person receiving the meishi, who takes it by the bottom two corners using both hands.
The licensor will have an option to co-promote the product in defined territories once the product is launched (occurs at any time of development).
The prospect of extending the marketing mix first took hold at the inaugural AMA conference dedicated to Services Marketing in the early 1980s, and built on earlier theoretical works pointing to many important limitations of the 4 Ps model.
Other regulations focus on user privacy and data management such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
If a wildcard is drawn, then all players must complete the instructions on it instead of answering a question.
According to publishing industry estimates, about one or two percent of the audience of a film will buy its novelization, making these relatively inexpensively produced works a commercially attractive proposition in the case of blockbuster film franchises.
Dewey was developed by advertising agency McCann-Erickson and digital content marketing firm EVB San Francisco.
Forms The following is a construction of the appeal to nature argument: In some contexts, the use of the terms of "nature" and "natural" can be vague, leading to unintended associations with other concepts.
Another reason for choosing relative market share, rather than just profits, is that it carries more information than just cash flow.
Primary goal As a part of the advertising world brand language's primary function is to identify a company or product and also differentiate that company/product from competitors.
Television Unlike book art and film posters, television key art is horizontal and is most often produced at 16:9 ratio.
A study published by University of California researchers found that even labeled native advertising deceived about a quarter of survey research subjects.
The film company receives all of the box-office revenue, while the theater keeps sales from popcorn and concessions.
Using celebrity branding, there is an advantage because the particular endorser already has a large audience and following, thus attention can be drawn easily.
Objectives The goals of interactive advertising are usually akin to the traditional objectives of advertising, i.e.
The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), effective in 2020, grants California residents the right to know what personal data is collected about them and to opt out of its sale, imposing additional compliance requirements on onboarding companies operating in the United States.
Beginning in 2024, a trend on social media involving the hiding of Tiny Jesus, Mini Jesus, or Little Jesus figurines in various high-traffic locations began.
North America Exhibit of an annoyance factor analysis table Factor analysis of perceptual items and attitude measures in online advertising: Academicians Kelli S.
Meta-advertising refers to a hybrid form of advertising, where the advertiser advertises for an advertisement.
The disadvantage of very strong brand language associations is that they may prove a hindrance if a brand wishes to position itself differently.
Kevin Duncan describes the concept in more traditional marketing terms, noting that there are "two axes," one of which runs from low to high respect, and the other which runs from low to high love.
Several hospitals in Prague were looked at, but with a recent outbreak of influenza in the Czech capital, most were unavailable.
This outsized capacity meant that very few users would install the discs' entire contents, encouraging producers to fill them by including as much existing content as possible, often without regard to the quality of the material.
However, no cause of action will exist so long as the purveyor is capable of actually selling the goods advertised, even if they aggressively push a competing product.
In entertainment, a tagline (alternatively spelled tag line) is a short text which serves to clarify a thought for, or is designed with a form of, dramatic effect.
In Russia, the most typical fixed-price menu is called business lunch (бизнес-ланч) or fixed lunch (комплексный обед), taken in the daytime.
Within marketing, playing along with the seducer is seen as fundamental to the seduction of the consumer, with the consumer playing a role in the exchange.
The Hitler teapot has been cited as an example of pareidolia, a phenomenon in which individuals perceive meaningful images or patterns in otherwise random formations.
The Daily Bugle (formerly TheDailyBugle.net) is an American faux current affairs digital series serving as the center of several viral marketing campaigns created by Sony Pictures.
Examples Famous brandmobiles include: Wienermobile (aka Frankmobile) by Oscar Mayer Nutmobile by Planters Bootmobile by L.L.
Microsoft has promised support for Office Open XML Strict starting with version 15, a format Microsoft has submitted to the ISO for interoperability with other office suites, and to aid adoption in the public sector.
Portal A is known for producing the annual YouTube Rewind, which has accrued over 1 billion views in aggregate since 2011.
Campaign plans are often created in business marketing, political campaigning and military campaigning.
Micromarketing is a marketing strategy in which marketing and/or advertising efforts are focused on a small group of tightly targeted consumers.
However, no claim is made that the product contains enough of the active ingredient to have an effect – this is just assumed by the purchaser.
Interactivity: The interactivity of a marketing campaign draws its importance based on the fact that a normal marketing campaign pushes its consumers to just buy or agree with what is being promoted.
Cherry picking of favorable data and sympathetic experts, aggrandizement of uncertainties within theoretical models, and false balance in media reporting contribute to the generation of FUD.
With the use of vinyl vehicle wraps, there was no need to repaint them or discount them as the vinyl could be removed without damaging the paint underneath.
These online concerts are also spread over a lot of different places, including cinemas at various places on the globe.
However, this technique provides more long-term advantages because high payments has a better possibility to expand the target with combined sales force, thus providing advantages on a long-term basis for companies.
Historically, a kiosk (from Persian kušk) was a small garden pavilion open on some or all sides common in Persia, the Indian subcontinent, and in the Ottoman Empire from the 13th century onward.
As streaming became the dominant music format, hit compilations gave way to digital playlists of current hits.
Today, several examples of this type of kiosk still exist in and around the Topkapı Palace in Istanbul, and they can be seen in Balkan countries.
Although the intent was to gain a stronger, more credible connection with the young target audience, adult observers saw the tactic as disingenuous and subversive and staged a boycott, which attracted press coverage.
Starting as a prank by a church's youth group in Hampton, South Carolina, the act grew in popularity as it became viral on TikTok.
The proliferation of digital marketing technologies led to "tag chaos," where websites became bloated with dozens of tags, negatively impacting page load speed and creating data governance challenges.
Vendors of pay-per-call advertising attribute the growth of the model to the popularity of smartphones and claim that it reduces the costs of on-line click fraud.
An Italian campaign for a video game plastered the streets with Post-it Notes shaped like game characters.
At certain points during Carousel, viewers can elect to switch to watching one of three short films blended into the tracking shot.
Dep't of Justice, Chapter 5, Antitrust Issues in the Tying and Bundling of Intellectual Property Rights in Antitrust Enforcement and Intellectual Property Rights (2007).
Also in 2015, Adventures by Disney introduced several shorter four- and five-day "Long Weekend" itineraries in New York City, Nashville, San Francisco and Wyoming.
However, the phrase was first popularized in 1954 by Brooks Stevens, an American industrial designer.
conference, directory or newsletter) and the company can make a lot of money from a subscriber, whose information cost very little to acquire.
This is common with billboards, such as a billboard that says "A thousand people will pass by this billboard today.
Some vendors put the BIOS chip in sockets, allowing the corrupted BIOS chip to be removed and reprogrammed using an external tool, like a universal programmer or an Arduino.
It is this switching cost that has given customers the patience to stick with Windows through all our mistakes, our buggy drivers, our high TCO [total cost of ownership], our lack of a sexy vision at times, and many other difficulties.
The wholesaler would typically also require special discounted fares/rates from the travel suppliers.
The revenue stream for each quarter was split between 60% for the music service and 40% for the tavern owner.
An early example of this phenomenon was the cartoon character Little Lulu, who became licensed to products for adults, such as Kleenex facial tissue.
Even mild channel stuffing can spiral out of control as the sales department works to make up for prior overselling.
55 - Red, White & Blue: Middle-aged, with high school educations, many of these folks are transitioning from blue-collar jobs to the service industry.
Insider speculated that positioning Barbie opposite Oppenheimer may have been a retaliatory move against Nolan for ending his long-standing collaboration with the studio.
In some cases, the factory preset crossover point on an HTIB subwoofer may cause it to sound too "boomy" in a room.
Blitz had opened a low-priced summer colony of tents on the Spanish island of Mallorca, followed by another on the island of Djerba (Tunisia).
This method of media planning allows the messages and themes of the advertising campaign to continue to reach consumers while conserving advertising funds.
In other cases software and hardware procedures, often complex, have been developed that have a good chance of un-bricking the device.
Such brand leaders will, of course, generate large cash flows; but they should not be 'milked' to such an extent that their position is jeopardized.
The official organization linked to writing media tie-ins is the International Association of Media Tie-In Writers.
In some cases, there is no connection between the product and the celebrity, which can become an effective or a defective result due to the position and relevance of the product.
There has been some doubt over whether this is an organic phenomenon, or a marketing stunt by Smirnoff, which the company has denied.
Another way of using SONCAS is to use every single point to cover all six topics to be sure to make the customer like the product.
The film was well known in the advertising industry and its creators had been approached several times with offers for the right to use the concept, but had always declined.
Approximately eight months after launch, they became brand spokespersons for L'Oréal Paris, their first major sponsor and, as sponsor, L'Oréal brought their likenesses forward as brand representatives.
Subsequently, Gary Graver's 1993 documentary Working With Orson Welles contained the trailer, and numerous DVD editions of Citizen Kane have contained the trailer as an extra, including the 2011 Blu-ray release and the 2021 4K Ultra HD release by The Criterion Collection.
It started in the late 1980s as a simple comparison advertisement, where a room full of battery-operated bunnies was seen pounding their drums, all slowing down except one, with the Energizer battery.
These have led to performance disadvantages and compatibility issues with competing browsers, and in some cases, developers intentionally refusing to test their websites on any other browser than Chrome.
Group exercise classes are often considered the most important service in the centers for members' engagement.
Thus there are usually only a few words, in large print, and a humorous or arresting image in brilliant color.
Dewey would audibly comment on searched keywords, and she would also perform a variety of random actions when idle, including taking props out from behind her desk.
The underlying motives of sponsored content, however, is similar to that of native advertising- which is to inhibit a consumers' ad recognition by blending the ad into the native content of the platform, making many consumers unaware they are looking at an ad to begin with.
Even so, the constant movement of the components on-camera made it difficult to achieve a seamless transition between the two 60-second shots.
Research conducted by audio branding specialist PHMG (company) among UK businesses discovered a 27% rise in the use of accents between January 2012 and January 2013.
specifies insertion or broadcast dates, positions, and duration of the messages." These plots indicate the pattern of scheduled times advertising must appear to coincide with favorable selling periods.
TV is effective because it is an audio-visual medium – like film – and can deliver a vast audience quickly, which is crucial because films typically don’t linger in theaters for more than 4–6 weeks, according to Marketing to Moviegoers: Second Edition.
The researchers also claim that customers are not firmly believed celebrities are effectively influential.
"Developing third party support and validation for the basic risk messages of the corporation is essential.
In recent years, the popularity of the kids' meal has receded, with a study by NPD Group indicating that there was a 6% decrease in kids' meal sales in 2011.
Most commonly, there is a choice of two or three dishes: a meat/fish/poultry dish, a vegetarian alternative, and a pasta.
2 (1984), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held the analysis of the tying issue must focus on the hospital's sale of services to its patients, rather than its contractual arrangements with the providers of anesthesiological services.
It must be unique—either in the brand or a claim, the rest of that particular advertising area does not make.
Others are slain." – Shadow of the Colossus "Prepare to die" – Dark Souls "Go beyond death" – Dark Souls II "Only embers remain..." – Dark Souls III "War.
Each of the first six clips end with a drawing of a different animal (a goat, owl, whale, bee, llama, and monkey).
The overall impact of social media in the fashion industry included the creation of online communities, direct communication between industry leaders and consumers, and criticized ideals that are promoted by the industry through social media.
After the task is completed the participant is asked to answer a series of post task survey questions such as "What was the message being conveyed by that ad?
Hiking and access trail A nearby inn called Hacienda Gripiñas, has a trail that leads to the top of the mountain.
The table only includes non-cable passenger railways whose culminating point is over 3,000 metres above sea level, regardless of their location, gauge or type.
See also List of attractions and events in the Louisville metropolitan area References External links Official website
One popular website is Peakbagger.com, founded by Greg Slayden, which lists mountains and regional highpoints.
The following sortable table lists land surface elevation extremes by country or dependent territory.
The shore of Lake Athabasca, which straddles Alberta and Saskatchewan, is Saskatchewan's lowest dry point (213 m (699 ft) above sea level).
The street players are asked if they are willing to "commit to help a stranger for the next year and if so, whether they are prepared to release their personal contact details".
The AMC calls it the White Mountains List, but others call it the New Hampshire List because it does not include Old Speck Mountain (4,170 ft) in Maine, which is outside the White Mountain National Forest but within the White Mountains.
Rubies could be earned through gameplay or purchased with real money and could be used to purchase items that affect gameplay such as "build plates".
The most prominent one includes "The Messner List" which omitted Mount Kosciuszko in Mainland Australia.
At each control, originally, the control staff or the competitor rubber stamped the control card using a rubber stamp and inkpad kept at that control.
Lowe Alpine Mountain Marathon (LAMM) – Formerly held in the Scottish Highlands in June; ended in 2018.
Existing players can also unlock one episode of Season 4 for free per week, and have a discounted rate on "Pro Membership" subscription.
Orienteering maps are produced by local orienteering clubs and are a valuable resource for the club.
**Day 2** – Usually features a "chasing start," where the overnight leaders start first, followed by a mass start for remaining teams.
The geohashing community and culture is extremely tongue-in-cheek, supporting any kind of humorous behavior during the practice of geohashing and resulting in a parody of traditional outdoor activities.
He was one of the pioneers of orienteering in Britain and can claim the first public mention of the sport in an article in The Observer in 1957: "I have just taken part, for the first time, in one of the best sports in the world.
Under the original rules, however, all Humans must sleep on-campus and being away for longer than 24 hours warrants automatic death or removal.
Zones are located all over the world, but with the highest concentration in countries with active competition, such as Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway and Great Britain.
Let's Hunt Monsters was China's most-downloaded game on the country's iOS App Store in the month of its release.
Shooting The shooting is usually conducted using biathlon rifles chambered for .22 LR at a distance of 50 meters towards self indicating steel targets.
Photographs in the Geograph collection are chosen to illustrate significant or typical features of each 1 km × 1 km (100 ha) grid square in the Ordnance Survey National Grid and the Irish national grid reference system.
This activity has been popularized around the world, with lists such as 100 Peaks of Taiwan, four-thousand footers, 100 Famous Japanese Mountains, the Sacred Mountains of China, the Seven Summits, the Fourteeners of Colorado, and the eight-thousanders becoming the subject of mass public interest.
Developed by onlife co-founders CEO Ryan David Mullins and Owen Batt, Aglet was released in April 2020.
Development started in 2008, only a year after the first iPhone was released, with $2.5 million of venture capital funding.
It describes the mark's found/not found status, photos, current condition, and updated directions to reach it so that others (particularly surveyors) can easily re-find the mark.
Lars Lönnkvist has won the men's class four times Statistics See also Tiomila Jukola relay List of sporting events in Sweden References External links The 1973 edition at SVT's open archive (in Swedish)
On the Saturday Swedish visitor Stig Gorman (58) of Mariestad died within sight of the finishing line; and on the Sunday Martin Cochrane (81) of Sarum Orienteers died shortly after starting the Orange colour-coded course.
Most peaks may require few technical skills, although the commonly cited difficulty ratings of peak climbs in the Sierra Nevada are considered to be understated, or “sandbagged”.
Also, in cold conditions, if no rubber seal is present, then the nano can freeze and become difficult to open.
The IOF committee drafted a mapping standard in 1965, which lasted until it was replaced by a new standard in 1975.
The clue is hidden in another letterbox (similar to clues for a bonus boxes), but the letterboxer that finds the clue is expected to move the clue to another nearby letterbox.
Geograph Deutschland is a web-based project, initiated in July 2008, to create a freely accessible archive of geographically located photographs of Germany.
Books Another source of lists are mountaineering guidebooks that detail information about how to climb peaks in a certain region.
Sprint The sprint competitions took place in Hørsholm north of Copenhagen (qualifications) and in central Copenhagen (finals).
Titled "Geohashing", it described a way for a computer to create an algorithm that could generate random Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates each day based on the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the current date.
Alpine clubs may include peak bagging as one of the activities for members; notable alpine clubs that maintain peak bagging lists include the Scottish Mountaineering Club, the Mazamas of Oregon and the Mountaineers of Washington.
The app has a cult following on YouTube and TikTok and there is a subreddit made by the creators for users of the app.
China originally claimed a gold and a silver medal in women's category as well as a silver in men's category prior to the disqualification.
He participated at the two first European Orienteering Championships, with a silver medal in relay as his best result.
If the location is inaccessible or in a private area, geohashers are advised not to try to reach it, although seemingly-inaccessible locations have been reached several times.
In 2015, the British chocolate company Thorntons worked with the geocaching community to hide chocolate eggs across the United Kingdom.
Gameplay Turf combines elements from traditional orienteering with elements commonly seen in many video games, such as a leveling system, leaderboards and achievements.
The Pikmin grow flowers on their heads when fed nectar, which in turn produces more flower petals, and then plant more flowers on the map.
Examples Scavenger hunts are regularly held at American universities, a notable modern example being the University of Chicago Scavenger Hunt, founded in 1987.
This is a list of all orienteering competitors found in Wikipedia and notable within the orienteering sport.
The organizers planned extensively during the COVID-19 Pandemic in order to make sure that the biannual event could run as scheduled in the fall of 2021, despite the ongoing challenges.
Together with the highest points of the states of Hamburg, Schleswig-Holstein and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, none reaches a height of 200 m.
In January 2020, a partnership with Suntory was established, where 14,000 of their vending machines across Japan would act as in-game locations to restore health and receive special missions.
For the fourth conference, the venue was again Southampton, the Ordnance Survey's new headquarters building at Adanac Park, on 27 June 2014.
Historic buildings and structures have also been damaged by geocachers, who have wrongly believed the geocache can be/has been placed within, or on the roof of, the buildings.
Geography This 1,050 m (3,440 ft) high peak rises in the northeastern sector of Île de l'Est, the easternmost island of the Crozet group.
This milestone is often tracked in climbing databases and represents a notable goal for participants in the sport.
In 2017, Hugh Steinhice of Tennessee, in conjunction with that year's total eclipse of the sun, recounted his story of visiting every US county, covered in the Chattanooga Times Free Press.
The Encounter founder Ivan Maslukov extends urban games not only geographically by entering new regions but also by generating and bringing to life new ideas.
During the Raid responsibilities are redefined every day to enable 1st year students to get more responsibility.
Many county collectors document their travels by being photographed with a county sign marker, or by taking a photo of the sign itself.
Typical locations In the U.S., markers are often found at the summits of mountains, along ridge lines, or on bare rock ledges with commanding views, because such sites provide good vantage points for triangulation lines to distant points.
This also gives rise to another list called the "Eight Summits", which includes both Puncak Jaya and Mount Kosciuszko along with the six summits on the other continents.
While running, the player collects supplies which can be used to benefit the base camp of Abel Township.
Because of the low power and short distances involved, most ROCA competitors walk the entire course, and focus their attention on the radio direction finding tasks rather than navigation.
Turf is a location-based mobile game with MMO elements developed by Swedish video game developer Andrimon.
Teams travel at their own pace, and participants can practise cross-country navigation at their own level of competition and comfort.
The Sports section is more concerned with the physical side with training camps of different sorts, including a week for juniors before the O-Ringen.
Until the 1970s there were no more than a dozen sites around the moor, usually in the most inaccessible locations.
The Danish organizers were using the WMOC as a promotional opportunity and arranged around the event several local competitions for the Danish public, which attracted participation in all ages.
Carlyle to try to achieve the Duke of Edinburgh Award, which requires participants to navigate the Highlands as a team relying only on a paper map.
In that phase, orienteering involves following exactly a course marked on a map but not in the terrain.
The poor solution stems from the property of a chord subtending equal angles to any other point on the circle.
The winner of the competition, worked with LØCI to design and release the LØCI Seven ‘Pyonkiti’ as a digital asset and a physical sneaker.
The terrain is typical for eastern Denmark and yet challenging due to its complex varieties of vegetation – from thick spruce forest to hilly, yet fast old beech forest areas.
The race is organized by Ilulissat Orienteering Greenland (IOG) and has been run every year since 1999.
He received a silver medal in the relay event at the European Orienteering Championships in 1964 in Le Brassus, together with Ola Skarholt, Magne Lystad and Stig Berge.
Combat with large monsters is limited to 75 seconds (unlike in mainline Monster Hunter games, where fights may last up to 50 minutes), while smaller monsters generally require just several seconds to defeat.
Geekwire reported that Mojang cited the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on real-world movement as the primary reason for ending development on Minecraft Earth.
Notable other examples sharing or influenced by its structure include the Microsoft Puzzle Hunt, MIT Mystery Hunt, and The Game (treasure hunt).
While most of them have fallen into disuse, about 184 of them are currently used in the Passive Station network.
These names are meant to be pronounceable or have a mnemonic value, so that they may easily be conveyed by voice.
Rules vary, but include: Checkpoints - The first checkpoint is given at the start of the race, and on arrival the next checkpoint is revealed to the racer.
Fox Oring is a timed race in which individual competitors use a topographic map and a magnetic compass to navigate through diverse, wooded terrain while searching for radio transmitters.
In this approach a player evolves and moves seamlessly through various physical and virtual stages, brought together in one unified game space.
Legality In the United Kingdom, organised cycle racing on public roads requires the authority of the police and the relevant sporting organisation.
Spells fall under four categories: Sorcery (direct damage), Charms (healing and buffs), Invocations (defense), and Dark Arts (damage while also debuffing enemies).
It was almost interfering with our careers.” Goldman Sachs revival (2012–2017) In 2012, Elisha Wiesel, a player of the original game, contacted co-creator Michaelson to revive the hunt as a charity fundraiser.
The sport takes place in a large boulder field, which is mapped in a similar way to a traditional rogaine.
Kristiansen co-wrote manuals and reports on the orienteering sport, such as a handbook on training and competition advice from 1968, and a report on psychological factors in orienteering from 1972.
Those who complete a list of 40 of these peaks are awarded membership in the South Beyond 6000 club.
Pocket In mobile warfare, such as the German Blitzkrieg, salients were more likely to be made into pockets which became the focus of annihilation battles.
Niantic acknowledged the issues on November 5 and released two updates which minimize the delayed notifications.
The 48 lie in the White Mountain National Forest, within two northern counties of New Hampshire: Coos and Grafton.
Examples American Civil War On the second day of the Battle of Gettysburg, Union General Daniel Sickles moved his III Corps ahead of the main line of the Union Army without orders, causing him to be nearly cut off from the main army when the Confederate Army attacked.
He was a keen mountaineer, and as a student was president of the Cambridge University Mountaineering Club, and in 1948 led an expedition to Baffin Island with W.
Created in 1999, it was the first French student organization to obtain the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 double certification.
The only summit of the sixteen that is not marked by a summit cross or a stone is the rise in Friedehorst Park.
At that time there were only 14 counties in the state, as La Paz county was not split from Yuma county until 1983.
The informality of the organization is matched by the emphasis on taking part, rather than simple competition.
The O-Ringen union was important in organising the event through to 1978, and held some administrative roles until 2003.
These maps are much more detailed than general-purpose topographic maps, and incorporate a standard symbology designed to be useful to anyone, regardless of native language.
In Australia's 7,686,850 square kilometres (2,967,910 sq mi) area, there is only a 2,244 metres (7,362 ft) difference between the highest and lowest points, which gives a ratio of 292 micrometres (0.0115 in) per km2.
Some geohashers document new mapping features they find on the OpenStreetMap project, clean up litter, or create art to commemorate the trip, among other activities.
The Raid was then the first French student organization to obtain the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 double certification; it was ranked tenth in the ‘Le Point Etudiant’ French student associations rankings.
The algorithm was quickly seized by the xkcd community, which used it as intended by xkcd creator Randall Munroe.
References External links Official Midnight Madness website Good Shepherd Services Gotham Immersive Labs – Production company The Great Gotham Challenge See also Puzzle hunt Scavenger hunt Alternate reality game Immersive theatre
Although the term waypoint has only entered common use in recent years, the equivalent of a waypoint in all but name has existed for as long as human beings have navigated.
Formed as a result of the First Battle of Ypres, it became one of the most bloody sectors of the Western Front.
On 1 October 2020, early access to the game was made available in Australia, Denmark, and Singapore.
The athlete has to take hundreds of route choice decisions at high speed during every race: a slight lack of concentration for just a hundredth of a second may cost the medal.
On September 22, 2011, version 4.0 was released, transitioning away from a check-in service to one featuring friends' "Stories" and curated "Guides".
Players can also complete location-based challenges by walking or running through their real-life surroundings.
The two runners making the trail with paper were called "foxes", those chasing them were called "hounds".
The competition attracts significant media coverage and winning is often considered second only to the World Orienteering Championships in prestige.
As with being stuck in quick sand, panic and errant movements can exacerbate a bad situation and make "it impossible to escape without help." Filing a 'flight plan,' having a buddy system, and carrying proper equipment could be possible preventatives of similar tragedies.
The game was originally created by Andreas Pantesjö and Simon Sikström, who still actively maintain and develop the game.
For timed and TempO controls, maps must be prepared in a very complicated way (the map must be rotated and the sheet is completed by control descriptions, North arrow, pointing board etc.).
Lines of reverse bearings, or lines of position, are then drawn on the map from the known features; two and more lines provide the resection point (the navigator's location).
In 2016, it had three starting points, continued to use clues with rhymes and riddles, and led people to two haunted houses in Louisville.
The 2018 edition The twentieth Raid CentraleSupélec edition, named Cima de Ventour, took place from April 27 to May 1 in the Provence region, featuring the giant of Provence, the well-known Mont Ventoux.
The inaugural event, categorized by Guinness World Records as a "media scavenger hunt", broke the record for the largest scavenger hunt of its kind.
In a ROCA course, the radio transmitters put out very little power, typically 10 to 200 mW, and can be received over only very short distances.
i-D reported that the hashtag #randonautica has gained 176.5 million views on TikTok, although it has not marketed itself yet.
These elimination races normally consist of six runners with the top two or three progressing, and can contain gaffling, loops, or runner's choice selection.
Students trying to stealthily eliminate their target, especially at night, have been confused with burglars with real guns, sometimes resulting in police involvement.
Growth Substantiating the growth of alleycat racing is difficult, given the lack of publicity and record-keeping in the community.
Background It originated in Toronto, Ontario, in 2003 and has expanded to fifteen other countries; events have occurred in a series in eight U.S.
Teams of five to 15 (previously nine to 15 before 2022) competitors earned points for submitting photos and videos of themselves completing prompts from a list they received at the beginning of the week.
As a result, the Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility and Fermilab received numerous emails from GISHWHES participants and set up special tours for the visitors.
The game is generally played over distance of several miles, but shorter courses can be set, or the game played according to a time limit.
It has since evolved into several competitive forms where participants race against the clock and other competitors while navigating through checkpoints.
This meant that, in some circumstances, some pictures are not ideal, but have been included anyway to provide as comprehensive a record as possible.
Usually, a canoe-O is a timed race in which one- or two-person boats start at staggered intervals, are timed, and are expected to perform all navigation on their own.
Gallery See also List of mountain peaks of the Caribbean List of mountain peaks of the United States List of U.S.
Three major summits exceed 5500 meters (18,045 feet), 11 exceed 5000 meters (16,404 feet), 21 exceed 4500 meters (14,764 feet), 124 exceed 4000 meters (13,123 feet), 277 exceed 3500 meters (11,483 feet), and the following 403 major summits exceed 3000 meters (9843 feet) elevation.
The International Orienteering Federation (IOF) publishes the standard for orienteering maps, including: ISOM (International Specification for Orienteering Maps), used for FootO forest maps.
They should make sure they are wearing appropriate clothing and footwear and to check the weather forecast before setting off.
Transmitters may identify themselves in Morse code or with voice recordings, and only transmit for ten seconds during every minute of the competition.
Fellrunners come and go, Champions come and go, but no-one will ever be as important to the development and history of fellrunning as the man who died in September on the Bowland fells." Song Boff Whalley, lead guitarist of Chumbawamba, recorded a song inspired by a chance meeting with Smith.
Once there, the subsequent objectives are to find clues and take bearings, triangulate the location of the control point, then go directly to the control point.
Peaks are occasionally added or removed from the list due to a variety of factors, such as accessibility, notability, and interest.
Two-person teams compete over a four- to six-hour time span to navigate through a city and find certain clues, or engage in various events that present physical, intellectual, and humorous challenges.
Others developed play-anytime games in which the players download a ClueKeeper app whose clues and puzzles lead the players to various locations.
A visit, or attempted visit, which does not conform to these rules may still be recorded on the website as an incomplete visit.
Like in prior Niantic AR games (such as Ingress and Pokémon Go), the game was set to be centered around real-world landmarks, where players could collect resources in-game.
It's a 24 hours event in Vallée de Chevreuse that starts with a night run on Friday evening and a race on Saturday composed of several loops with trail, mountain biking, orienteering and others activities that the teams can choose to do in the order they want.
Colin O'Brady broke the record for the Messner and Bass lists in 131 days, summiting Vinson on 17 January 2016 and completing with Denali on 27 May 2016.
In January 2010, the Spanish climber Carlos Soria Fontán, at the age of 71, completed the seven summits (Messner list) after reaching the summit of Kilimanjaro.
Geohashers then have the opportunity to go at the chosen location, either inside their own graticule or in a nearby one.
Major 3000-meter summits Of the 403 major 3000-meter summits of greater North America, 299 are located in the United States (excluding three in Hawaiʻi), 67 in Canada, 30 in México, and eight in Guatemala, four in Greenland, two in Costa Rica, and one each in Panamá and the Dominican Republic.
A common protest was also held by the competitors from Russia, Switzerland, France, Belgium, Poland and Austria accusing the Chinese team for gaining major unfair advantage in the competition.
Some rooms held hosted games, where teams compete for prizes without coming into contact with each other.
Given a choice of route, the competitor evaluates trade-offs among such factors as distance, amount of "climb" (vertical movement), degree and extent of "fight" (travel through obstructing vegetation), mode of travel, technical difficulty, and the competitor's own preferences.
Competitive sport Mounted orienteering can be completed competitively, either as a discipline in its own right, or as part of a multi-discipline sport such as Trec.
The selection of the teams is mostly based on the previous sporting performances of the competitors in order to ensure high sports performances during the race.
Orienteering sports in which route choice is an important factor provide few locations where spectators can watch the race.
Checking-in will sometimes produce virtual "items" for the user, some of which are developed to be promotional tools for the game's partners.
For a successful visit, the visitor must get within 100 metres of the confluence point, and post a narrative and several photographs to the project website.
Relay The TrailO relay is a team event of 3, where every team member has to complete a precision orienteering course first and a timed part afterwards.
The event has been sponsored in the past by Bell ("Bell City Chase") and is now sponsored by Scion ("The Scion City Chase").
Founder Francis Barker (1819–1875) worked first as a child apprentice and then later as a skilled precision mechanic and engraver, for J & G Simms, which traded between about 1882 and 1855 as makers of finely-engraved instrument dials and reticles.
Contributions Photographs can be contributed by any registered user, although they must be approved by a panel of moderators before appearing on the website.
Once the map was set up, a developer defined areas on the map that trigger digital media and interactions with the mediascape.
Contributors can choose to add meta-data to each image, in the form of Subject and Tags, to go along with the geo-tagging by location.
Another challenge involved participants using and spreading the word abnosome, Collins's portmanteau of abnormal and awesome.
The latter are played individually or as a team, not at a set time but whenever they want to do the hunt.
Of those two, the Brazil APE cache is the only surviving original APE cache because GC1169 was muggled in 2016.
MEN M35 WOMEN W35 MEN M40 WOMEN W40 MEN M45 WOMEN W45 MEN M50 WOMEN W50 MEN M55 WOMEN W55 MEN M60 WOMEN W60 MEN M65 WOMEN W65 MEN M70 WOMEN W70 MEN M75 WOMEN W75 MEN M80 WOMEN W80 MEN M85 WOMEN W85 MEN M90 WOMEN W95 External links Official web site == References ==
Killander continued to develop the rules and principles of the sport, and today is widely regarded throughout Scandinavia as the "Father of Orienteering".
See also Geography of the Pitcairn Islands External links (in English) Pawala Valley Ridge, Pitcairn Island, Peakbagger.com.
Boundary Peak is the highest peak in terms of elevation, however, it has only 253 feet of clean prominence and so is usually considered a subsidiary peak of Montgomery Peak in California.
The game allows players to trade digital "kittens" through Tencent's blockchain platform, a feature which has been compared to CryptoKitties.
Geocaching is an outdoor treasure-hunting game in which the participants use a global positioning system (GPS) receiver or other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers (called "geocaches" or "caches").
Then follows a new round of orienteering, before the sprint ends with five shots standing (plus any applicable penalty laps).
Several marking schemes are in use, including a pre-printed multiple choice form, and a "secret word" posted at the control point that the competitor must copy down.
Highpointing has been considered a subset of peak bagging, the goal of which is to reach the summit of every mountain on a certain list.
By walking or running around the physical world, players are rewarded with Aglet that they can then use to collect digital sneakers.
He participated at the 1957 Nordic Championships, where he won a bronze medal in the individual contest.
Many determined collectors take entire trips which consist of driving around states in cornrow patterns.
See also Protractor compass Hand compass References External links Silva 6 Jet Spectra, a typical modern thumb compass The Internet Compass Museum gives comprehensive information about all sorts of compasses and how to use them.
The World Masters Orienteering Championships 2018 was the 23rd World Masters Orienteering Championships(WMOC) organised and held in Denmark with 4200 participants from 45 countries.
Modern examples of marine hand bearing compasses include the Suunto KB-14 and KB-77, and the Plastimo Iris 50.
Control card and punching Each competitor is required to carry an electronic or paper control card, and to present it at the Start and hand it in at the Finish.
Another son of the founder, Charles, added gold and silver jewellery to the company's products in the late 19th century, notably devotional articles such as wearable crucifixes.
Just as it looks like all is lost DJ Beatroot and the farmers appear and chase off the Duke and Duchess after stealing their weapons.
A typical ClueKeeper adventure is the Sunset Bar Crawl, created by San Francisco-based puzzle hunt company Shinteki, in which players are guided to several local pubs where they find clues and answer trivia questions.
The filming and processing of documentary about urban games "Encounter: lust for life" over by December 2009.
World Masters Orienteering Championships (WMOC) are annual international orienteering competitions and the official world championship for orienteering runners above the age of 35.
In variations of the game, players take photographs of listed items or be challenged to complete the tasks on the list in the most creative manner.
from about 1930 to 1955, in conjunction with the expansion of map-making activities across the country.
For example, the AMC maintains a roster of those making ascents between the winter solstice and spring equinox.
Cook used the principles of the travelling salesman problem to calculate that the optimal route visiting every county's seat in the mainland United States would cover 93,466 miles (150,419 km), though he noted that county collectors typically travel a much longer distance.
The locations of the Night N' Day Ever since 2017 : The race has been held in the Vallée de Chevreuse, and the finished has been taking place in the town of Rambouillet.
By using recipes, player may collect the ingredients to use in a potion brewing mini-game, the results of which determines the drink's effectiveness.
Contributors can also gain Second, Third and Fourth visitor points for each square, depending on how many other geographers have already submitted geographs to that square.
The latter established a new benchmark in fell running, second only to the record of 72 peaks set by Joss Naylor.
Mont Marion-Dufresne is the highest mountain in the Crozet Islands, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Indian Ocean.
Panoramic view The view from atop Cerro de Punta is said to be "the best view in all of Puerto Rico".
"Trips", which as of January 2010 can be made by any user, linked together up to 20 related spots, grouped into categories such as Nature Hikes or Pub Crawls.
Less common trends are site-specific information pages about the historic significance of the site, types of trees, birds in the area or other such information.
Collaborations Collaboration with Manchester City x PUMA As part of the Club's 2023 pre-season tour of Japan and Korea, the interactive experience available on the Aglet app encouraged fans to get moving and collect Manchester City and PUMA virtual items for their avatars.
Each checkpoint might offer food or entertainment, either covered by the entry fee or at additional cost.
The SPORTIdent control card is a small plastic stick ("e-card" or "e-punch', also "dibber" and "fingerstick").
Modern webbing is typically made from exceptionally high-strength material and is used in automobile seat belts, furniture manufacturing, transportation, towing, military uniform, cargo fasteners, and many other fields.
They were once commonly made from brass or "German silver", but these would corrode from contact with insect bodies and are no longer commonly used.
Gallery See also Buckle Drawstring Watch strap Phone strap Snap fastener Strapping (punishment) Hook and loop fastener Ratchet strap References == External links ==
These devices are primarily used in areas affected by high winds including hurricanes but are generally suitable for any area that may be impacted by windstorm damage.
It frequently consists of a fold of fabric that is attached to the opening in order for the fasteners (buttons, hooks, snaps) to be sewn to it.
Two-way voice communication Display or telemetry of suit health parameters Telemetry of an indicator of the wearer's immediate health (e.g.
However the single plane of suspension allowed the microphone to twist very easily; once microphones started to become directional, this twisting caused fading of the signal.
Types Accordion Accordion pleats or knife pleats are a form of tight pleating which allows the garment to expand its shape when moving.
Rickrack was also stitched into lace elements, which were then used to decorate bedding and other home linens.
According to Niaz Zaman, the word kantha originates from the Sanskrit word kontha, which means rags, as kantha is made of rags.
In addition to the standard two outer pockets, some suits have a third, the ticket pocket, usually located just above the right pocket and roughly half as wide.
For instance, dinner jackets traditionally take no vents.) On skirts, vents are particularly associated with pencil skirts where they may be necessary for free movement, but they may also be added for reasons of style, as they have the effect of exposing more of the legs.
The sleeve is a characteristic of fashion seen in almost every country and time period, across a myriad of styles of dress.
A Junker test is a mechanical test to determine the point at which a bolted joint loses its preload when subjected to shear loading caused by transverse vibration.
'cross-collar robe'), often known as áo tràng vạt (襖長祓) or áo tràng xiên, or simply áo tràng, was a traditional robe worn by Vietnamese before the 19th century.
Chrome plated zinc and plastic bodies are only suitable for light loads such as key rings, handbag straps, and leads for small dogs.
Typically, it is a machine part consisting of a hollow cylinder with an internal compression spring acting on a pin.
It has evolved into the smaller pom-pom found on older-style golf caps and the button atop baseball caps.
The Valsalva device is a device used in spacesuits, some full face diving masks, and diving helmets to allow astronauts and commercial divers to equalize the pressure in their ears by performing the Valsalva maneuver inside the suit without using their hands to block their nose.
Facing makes a garment look professionally finished with the seams well hidden inside the folds of the facing.
It is very fine and transparent but strong, the structure is similar to a gauze fabric that is loose and open in weave.
By the mid- to late 1700s, simpler forms and designs were more common, with simpler themes of nature, bows, miniature portraits and animals.
The presence of the mandarin collar on the ACU makes the wearing of body armor more comfortable by lifting the collar up to prevent chafing.
Judson along with his partner Lewis Walker had implemented the device directly into their own boots.
The lens is attached to the camera by means of a rotating ring which is used to tighten the lens to the camera by friction.
Modern kilts may be made with either box pleats or knife pleats, and can be pleated to the stripe or pleated to the sett (see main article Kilts: Pleating and stitching).
The length along a mandarin collar is straight, with either straight or rounded edges at top of the centre front.
Please see external links for images of buttons (front & back) made from the material(s) in question.
See also Space toilet Maximum Absorbency Garment References External links Space Poop Challenge from NASA Space Poop Challenge from herox.com
Cheaper forms of badge were more widely distributed, sometimes very freely, similarly to modern political campaign badges and t-shirts.
Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il badges are lapel pins with portraits depicting either one or both of the Eternal Leaders of North Korea, Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il.
Bodice yokes were first made in the 1880s, while the yoke skirt, a skirt suspended from a fitted hip yoke, was first produced in 1898.
Bias tape typically comes with each raw vertical edge pressed underneath the strip, meaning that both vertical edges are on the fold.
From museum exhibitions to second-hand trading markets, Chairman Mao badges still "circulate" in public and private spaces in contemporary times, reflecting the cross-era appeal and complex connotations of the symbols of the Cultural Revolution.
Coil zipper—also known as nylon coil zipper—is a type of zipper whose teeth/elements are made from coiled monofilament that is traditionally nylon.
Some modern sewing machine companies use the name "rickrack stitch" for a heavy decorative zigzag stitch, from its resemblance to the trim.
Tennis shirts With the advent of the tennis shirt, however, the upturned collar took on a whole new purpose.
The second most common size, the five-inch (130 mm), is adequate for any age group or performance type, but the marginally shorter strands provide the necessary flash while acting more as an accent to the uniform.
Testing has been taking place in combination with the Z-1 prototype spacesuit inside NASA's human-rated thermal vacuum chamber B at the Johnson Space Center.
A separate operation may be required for the cocking and latching-open of a hammer to fire the new round.
The use of push nuts avoids the cost of threading a nut onto the end of the shaft during the manufacturing process.
This may include botanical structures such as the area where tree branches are joined together or mechanical structures which fork or branch or where ramification takes place.
However, the MAG is rarely used for this purpose, since the astronauts use the facilities of the station before EVA and also time the consumption of the in-suit water.
Following the 2022 accession of King Charles III, a version of the badge featuring the Tudor Crown, as "seen in King Charles III’s new cypher," was adopted in 2025 to replace Queen Elizabeth II’s St.
A scoop neckline is a rounded neckline on a garment which is conspicuously lower in the front than in the back.
It was developed for the fabrication of tubular assemblies, which are fed into the throat of the machine over an eight-inch square lower knee.
Bowed retaining rings Bowed retaining rings are curved versions of standard flat internal and external retaining rings and exert a pre-load on an assembly when installed in the groove.
Application in wood construction In wood-frame construction ties are generally made of galvanized steel.
Overlapping mandarin collars are often a continuation of a shirt's placket and have a button on the collar to secure the two sides of the shirt together.
Automotive use Tolerance rings are used in a number of mechanisms throughout the automotive powertrain and steering systems, as well as the car interior and exterior.
Thumb tacks made of brass, tin or iron may be referred to as brass tacks, brass pins, tin tacks or iron tacks, respectively.
Future tests were planned for September and August 2012, where NASA planned to keep the spacesuit at a pressure of 8 psi (0.5 atm), and the vacuum chamber at roughly 0 psi (0 atm).
Some spring plungers are designed to be handled only when assembling or occasionally adjusting equipment.
In the 18th century, engageantes took the form of ruffles or flounces of linen, cotton, or lace, tacked to the elbow-length sleeves then fashionable.
The open end of the wire is in the middle of the cotter so when it is installed the inner tab is first installed in the hole.
Early Western medieval sleeves were cut straight, and underarm triangle-shaped gussets were used to provide ease of movement.
It features an Australian wedge-tailed eagle in flight superimposed on a circle, which is surmounted by the Tudor crown.
Women in Bengal typically use old saris and cloth and layer them with kantha stitching to make a light blanket, throw, or bedspread, especially for children.
A Snoopy cap, or communication cap, is a part of a space suit worn by American astronauts on the head and incorporating an audio headset for communication.
Similar principles are used in spring-loaded valves and valve stems (including safety valves), or automatic ejectors on firearms.
According to this undocumented theory, until the beginning of the 20th century writers favoured the original term or at least a more logical variation (e.g.
Inverted U-shaped: A softer, less used version of the inverted-V waistline, usually a gentle downwards curve.
Cloth ribbons are made of natural materials such as silk, cotton, and jute and of synthetic materials, such as polyester, nylon, and polypropylene.
Les Passementeries de l'île de France is a French company that designs and manufactures traditional French tassels.
Designed by Sarah Burton for Alexander McQueen, the dress quickly generated demand for high street replicas.
The most common brooch forms during this period were the bow, the plate and in smaller quantities, the penannular brooch.
There are a variety of Godadis, such as designed Godadi from the same piece of cotton cloth, embroidered Godadi and Godadi from patched clothes.
These are also used extensively in the sport of orienteering as a form of security for the controls, particularly in urban environments.
Carbon dioxide scrubbers are also used in controlled atmosphere (CA) storage and carbon capture and storage processes.
2,270 kg) Materials: Reinforced aluminum Size: 16 ft (4.89 m) diameter Controversy When The Button was installed in front of the Van Pelt Library on June 18, 1981, it was met with much controversy.
Many later pins were made of brass, a relatively hard and ductile metal that became available during the Bronze Age.
However, because this fact is now often ignored and the flap is seen as an accessory that completes the style, it is commonly left out indoors, even during formal events.
Normal bolts are manufactured to handle tension loads, whereas clevis pins and bolts are designed to withstand shearing forces.
Downspout Downspouts (also called downpipes, rain conductors, or leaders) are used to convey rainwater from roof gutters to the ground through hollow pipes or tubes.
Types There are basically three types of facing: Shaped facings are cut to match the outside shape of the piece to provide a neat finish, and are often cut from the same pattern pieces.
Media attention These garments gained attention in February 2007, when astronaut Lisa Nowak drove 1,450 km (901 mi) to attack Air Force officer Colleen Shipman out of jealousy for her former lover.
A staple is a type of two-pronged fastener, usually metal, used for joining, gathering, or binding materials together.
Rubber bands in orthodontics Special rubber bands of medical-grade latex can be used (worn) for orthodontic correction of teeth position together with metal braces or clear aligners to apply additional pressure on the teeth being straightened.
But some stores added accessories to their notions department, which they relocated to the ground floor.
By contrast, a dart or pleat by itself would not be considered a style line because although each can be used to produce a pleasing visual effect, their main purpose is to shape the garment by taking in ease or adding fullness respectively.
Description and history The Chester Herald, John Heaton-Armstrong, was "commissioned to prepare a badge for the RAAF" in 1937.
It was developed by Reinz-Dichtungs-GmbH, Technische Universität München, Hölzel Stanz- und Feinwerktechnik GmbH & Co.
Some farm workers worked on the land during daylight hours, and on button-making in the evenings or in winter.
See also List of sewing machine brands List of sewing tools and equipment References Citations Bibliography Caulfeild, S.F.A.; Saward, B.C.
In comparison with ji li, the male equivalent known as guan li (Chinese: 冠禮) or "hat initiation", usually took place five years later, at the age of twenty.
1945 to 1970 Balenciaga's 1945 endorsement of sloped shoulders signaled the direction that fashion was heading, and this was confirmed with Christian Dior's transformative 1947 Corolle collection, characterized by a striking natural shoulder line.
History Bell sleeves were originally found on a garment called a chasuble, which was the dress of clergymen during medieval times.
This type of dart may be found in the front, rarely in the back of a garment and are used by the garment maker to pull in the bottom of the blouse towards the wearer's waist.
As buttoning styles changed, the loosely folded front of the coat correspondingly shifted shape, and the V then formed by the meeting of the fold and the collar continues now in the traditional shape of notched and peaked lapels, both of which originate from that period.
A pyrotechnic fastener (also called an explosive bolt, or pyro, within context) is a fastener, usually a nut or bolt, that incorporates a pyrotechnic charge that can be initiated remotely.
See also Bracket (architecture) French cleats The 32 mm system on frameless cabinets using 5 mm diameter studs spaced 32 mm apart == References ==
The style is named for the cowl, a feature of monastic dress that serves as both a collar and a hood.
It's functionally interchangeable with the jewel neckline, though jewel tends to refer to a neckline that does not include the rib knit band.
647–654), Kim Chunchu personally traveled to Tang to request for clothing and belts; one of the requested clothing was banbi (Korean: 반비; Hanja: 半臂).
It was used extensively in the 18th and 19th centuries, particularly in tricorns, bicornes and shakos used in military uniforms.
These robes are powerful statements of identity and, donning them, people become in a real sense what they wear." Rather than sleeping equipment, the blankets are used as capes and gifts at ceremonial dances and potlatches.
Traditionally the color of fabric was dark, and delmonas was embroidered using colorful threads and glass beads.
Parodies Several hundred parodies of the commercial have appeared on YouTube, as well as numerous fan pages on Facebook.
The badges were inspired by Chairman Mao badges worn by Chinese revolutionaries and citizens during the rule of Mao Zedong.
In the 1950s and 1960s, plain boat neck shirts were worn by artists associated with beatnik culture.
A split pin may be used in place of staples, but they are more commonly used in situations where rotation around the joint is desirable.
Types of buttonholes Hand stitching A plain buttonhole is one in which the raw (cut) edges of the textile are finished with thread in very closely spaced stitches, typically the buttonhole stitch.
Jones (4 May 1987), Conference Proceedings, Society of Plastics Engineers 1987 Annual Technical Papers, pp.
They are applied from the outside and do not use an anvil; jaw-like appendages push through the cardboard alongside the legs and bend them from the outside.
The most common type has a single snap hook at one end and a swivel ring at the other, but double ended bolt snaps and single ended snaps with a swivel shackle are also available.
It has a lined flap of matching fabric covering the top of the pocket, sewn in along the seam of the jetting.
This tool is mainly used on rivets close to the edge of the fastened material since the tool is limited by the depth of its frame.
Auburn Button Works and Logan Silk Mills is a historic factory complex located at Auburn in Cayuga County, New York.
A raglan sleeve is a sleeve that extends in one piece fully to the collar, leaving a diagonal seam from underarm to collarbone.
A spaghetti strap (also called a noodle strap) is a very thin shoulder strap used to support clothing, while providing minimal shoulder straps over otherwise bare shoulders.
In humans, the crotch is the bottom of the pelvis (the region of the body where the legs join the torso) and is the part of the body that includes the groin and genitals.
History and trademark BULLDOG is a registered trademark of Brandsley Limited which is licensed to Faire Bros & Co Limited.
History Before the invention of the twist-tie, small cuts of sheep or cow intestine were used as rubber bands.
Aiguillettes usually appear at the end of decorative cords, such as bolo ties and the cords on military dress uniforms.
A binder clip (also known as a foldback clip, paper clamp, banker's clip, foldover clip, bobby clip, or clasp) is a simple device for binding sheets of paper together.
Application: Joint between piston rod and cross head of a steam engine Joint between valve rod and its steam A steam engine connecting rod strap end Foundation bolt Bolted A bolted joint is a mechanical joint which is the most popular choice for connecting two members together.
This size can be used for dance teams, pom squads, cheerleaders, and majorettes, easily making it the most versatile strand length on the market.
In the 1990s, NASA ordered 3,200 of the diapers of the brand name Absorbencies, manufactured by a company that has folded.
The tasuki allowed the kimono wearer to work without large sleeves getting in the way of the job, and without risking damage to the garment's sleeves.
Interfacing is a textile used on the unseen or "wrong" side of fabrics to make an area of a garment more rigid.
The manufacturer generally specifies information as to the connection method for each of their products.
In the Qing dynasty, water sleeves reached their peak in artistry and refinement, particularly within Peking opera.
Notable wearers Notable people who have worn finger sleeves include: Kobe Bryant, who wore them to hold a protective gel pad on his arthritic fingers.
History The drawing pin was invented in name and first mass-produced in what is now the United States in the mid/late 1750s; the earliest use of the term "drawing pin" is listed in the Oxford English Dictionary as 1812.
A retaining ring is a fastener that holds components or assemblies onto a shaft or in a housing/bore when installed - typically in a groove - for one time use only.
A primary purpose of strings in computer science is to store human-readable text, like words and sentences.
Clevis hanger A clevis hanger consists of one U-shaped clevis and a second V-shaped clevis with a hole in a flattened section at the base of the V, joined together with a bolt or pin.
The hairpin may be decorative and encrusted with jewels and ornaments, or it may be utilitarian, and designed to be almost invisible while holding a hairstyle in place.
This style of pin, with the pin formed by a cutout from the head, is still widely sold in Austria under the brand 'Sax'.
It is commonly used in garments such as swimwear, camisoles, crop tops, brassieres, sundresses, cocktail dresses,evening gowns and form-fitting body con so-named for its resemblance to the thin pasta strings called spaghetti.
Design and use The most common cable tie comprises a flexible nylon tape with an integrated linear ratchet gear rack, and on one end a pawl within a small open case.
Traditionally, they were made of cotton, but synthetic fabrics have increasingly been used since the late 1900s.
To disengage unintentionally, the pins must break, the sleeve into which the connector slides must be distorted or torn enough to free the pins, or the spring must fail and allow the connector to be pushed down and rotate—for example due to vibration.
Antecedents The bayonet mount was used by the Maya Civilization during the Late Classic period of their culture.
Kevin Garnett, who suffered an injury early in his career and wore finger sleeves for many years after.
Other slang terms include wifebeater, beater, guinea tee or dago tee (guinea and dago being American ethnic slurs for people of Italian ethnicity).
A positive locking device is a device used in conjunction with a fastener in order to positively lock the fastener.
They are less than 1 millimetre (0.039 in) thick and are woven with silver fibers so that the barrier does not prevent the touchscreen from reacting to the wearer's finger presses.
In addition, re-closability became a selling point as smaller families and higher costs slowed consumption, leading to a potential for higher rates of spoilage.
Corsetry and bras Corsetry and bras are often used to enhance cleavage; author Nan McNab claims that "it has been said the quickest way for a woman to change her breasts is to buy a bra".
To make a dowel, a piece of wood is split or whittled to a size slightly bigger than desired and then driven through the hole in the dowel plate.
a twisted piece of gut or sinew)." Other evidence for the prehistoric use of twine is provided by impressions on metal or in pottery and other ceramic artifacts.
The princess line was also popular for young girls who wore it with a sash or, if slightly older, over a longer underskirt.
The following is a list of positive locking devices: A split beam nut A castellated nut and a split pin A hex nut or cap screw and a tab washer A hex nut or cap screw and a lock plate Safety wiring with various types of fasteners 7-122.
Quilts now are the modern fad that are sewn with new cloth material in upscale boutiques across India.
Originally produced in Sindh, in southeastern Pakistan, and the surrounding regions bordered by the southeastern part of Balochistan, the Bahawalpur region of Punjab, Rajasthan and the Kutch region of Gujarat.
The banbi is in the form of a waistcoat or outerwear with short sleeves, which could either be worn over or under a long-sleeved ruqun.
If the buttons are concealed by a separate flange or flap of the shirting fabric running the length of the placket, it is called a "fly front".
John Ireland Howe invented a pin-making machine in 1832, and an improved machine in 1841; his Howe Manufacturing Company of Derby, Connecticut, used three machines to produce 72,000 pins per day in 1839.
History Soutache originated in France in the 15th century, and was used to trim clothing for the aristocracy and create jewelry.
The names Treasury tag and India tag are first found on record in a list of stationery items published by His Majesty's Stationery Office (HMSO) in 1912, and, both being capitalised, probably refer to HM Treasury and the India Office.
Etymology The word ribbon comes from Middle English ribban or riban from Old French ruban, which is probably of Germanic origin.
With the increased interest in upcycling old and thrifted clothing during this period, the lettuce hem became a way to update a garment.
The receptacle has two slots resembling curved keyholes which have holes at one end sized to accept the pin ends.
These designs often contained symbolism relevant to the unit's origins, for example, the 82nd Airborne Division's "AA" for "All-American", and the 29th Infantry Division's blue-and-gray circle symbolizing its makeup of Union and Confederate states.
It may be made from either self-fabric (the same fabric as the object to be ornamented) or contrasting fabric, or of leather.
In 1676, under the name of the Dutch loom or engine loom, it was brought to London, and although its introduction there caused some disturbance, it does not appear to have been prohibited.
A circle cotter, also known as a cotter ring or split ring, is a formed wire fastener that is shaped like a circle, hence the name.
Bayer Material Science, "Snap-fit joints for plastics: A design guide" Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA: 2013.
There is also a double loop variety when a wider range of suitable shafts is required, and to facilitate the attachment of a retaining tether to prevent the pin's loss when removed.
Prolonged constrictive pressure of the crotch on the male genitals may increase the likelihood of detumescing.
Terms The clevis is a U-shaped piece that has holes at the end of the prongs to accept the clevis pin.
Damages were initially awarded by the jury for patent royalties, and separate awards of US$156,000 for unjust enrichment and US$6.7 million for deterrence for trademark infringement, with the latter based on the profits Fossil had earned from sales of their handbags.
While threading buckles come in metal varieties for use with tensioning fasteners like over-center and ratchet fasteners, snap buckles are often plastic and are not designed to withstand a great deal of tension.
Controversy surrounding the piece has subsided in the years since 1981, but either way, it is now a central landmark and focal point of campus.
Luggage and fashion accessories Bolt snaps are sometimes used to attach straps and handles to luggage and handbags.
Melvin suffered an ear injury while training in the Neutral Buoyancy Laboratory at Johnson Space Center.
Twill tape is also used in theatre to tie curtains, cable and scenery to various objects, or to tie cable coils so that they do not unroll.
The latter theory is clearly contradicted by evidence (discussed above) that the term "scye" was already in use at least as early as 1825.
Breech-lock comes from the mechanisms that lock closed the breech of breech-loading firearms and artillery.
Thread shank A thread shank is made of thread and is intended to be used with a shankless button (a button with typically two or four holes).
The three-ring system is simple, inexpensive, reliable, and requires fewer operations than earlier parachute release systems while reducing the physical force needed.
Only embedment that occurs after installation can cause a loss of preload, and values of up to 0.0005 inches can be seen at each surface mate, as reported by SAE.
The hem gets its characteristic waves from a zig-zag overlock stitching pattern typical of Burrows' work, which emphasized rather than concealed hems and stitching.
It is possible to push down the connector and rotate it, but not far enough to engage and lock; it will stay in place temporarily, but accidental disconnection is very likely.
Across history and cultures, other parts of women's bodies have sometimes been viewed as more enticing than breasts, including buttocks, legs, necks, ankles, hair, and feet.
The HUT incorporates structural attachment points for the arms, Lower Torso Assembly (LTA), helmet, chest-mounted Display and Controls Module (DCM), and Primary Life Support Subsystem (PLSS) backpack.
Irish Naval Service In the Naval Service, the "Stay-Brite" version of the badge is worn by Seamen and Leading Seaman on their caps and on the operational berets.
These designs can be achieved by sewing one end of the zipper, sewing both of its ends together or allowing both of its ends to fall apart respectively.
Some flat-chested women feel self-conscious about their small breasts and want to improve their sexual attractiveness by seeking breast augmentation.
After 1938, all licorice factories began binding their candies together with small pieces of twine or thin pieces of other licorice.
They are a dart variation that is sewn into the front or back of a shirt that extends from the waist up to the shoulder seam or armscye.
Trammel hooks can also be used to hold candles, where changing the height makes the area lit wider or narrower.
Material Ring, slide and hook can be made with metal, metal with nylon coated, electro-plated metal and plastics.
Clecos should fit snugly in their holes to prevent shifting of the workpieces and maintain the alignment of fastener holes which do not have Clecos in them.
In rocketry, a pintle injector uses a single-feed fuel injector rather than the hundreds of smaller holes used in a typical rocket engine.
The CNC Riveting machines generally consist of a solid frame made of welded steel and aluminum frames used for protection fitted with polycarbonate panes.
eagle." 21st-century history In 2002, the Australian Chief of Air Force determined that "Through Struggle to the Stars" would be the official English rendering of the Latin motto.
This could be extended to 75 to 90 minutes with a "buddy system" hose that used the other astronaut's functional PLSS for cooling (only).
There appears to be no concrete reference to prove or disprove this story, but its plausibility bears noting.
784—discusses many uses of the word "History of the Stapler", Office Museum "Abstract", ASTM F1667-15: Standard Specification for Driven Fasteners: Nails, Spikes, and Staples, ASTM International, doi:10.1520/F1667-15.
A pom-pom – also spelled pom-pon, pompom or pompon – is a decorative ball or tuft of fibrous material.
Ralli, Rilli or Rillki quilts are traditional hand-woven embroidered quilts from Southeast Pakistan.
Stitching or piercing this kind of elastic causes it to quickly lose its ability to return to its original shape (a ball-point sewing needle will minimize this damage).
There are atypical ways of wearing the badges that are considered fashionable by North Koreans, the youth in particular.
Leading strings have been widely replaced by baby walkers and playpens, or similarly by a child harness.
Popular usage Lapel pins are frequently used as symbols of achievement and belonging in different organizations.
The simplicity of its design made neckties seem fussy and superfluous by comparison Furthermore, designer Halston commented: Turtlenecks are the most comfortable garment you can wear.
Citations and notes References Royal Deuxponts 104 Regiment d'Infanterie (re-enactment unit) "Royal Deuxponts: Home Page".
This allowed for one configuration to ease donning of the suit, and a different configuration to allow maximum mobility during EVA.
May 24, 2017 – Britain strongly objected to the United States leaking to the press information about the Manchester Arena bombing, including the identity of the attacker and a picture of the bomb, before it had been publicly disclosed, jeopardizing the investigation.
Senator Susan Collins, a Republican swing vote, called the Swetnick allegation "outlandish...[without] any credible supporting evidence", and ended up supporting Kavanaugh's nomination.
Credit card details have been stolen from places like Minnesota and the United Kingdom, the website allows searches by zip code so that stolen card numbers can be cashed out more locally to their victim to avoid alerting banks.
"Have You Got Everything You Want?", "'The House at Shiraz", "Death on the Nile" and "The Oracle at Delphi" all appeared in the April 1933 issue of Cosmopolitan magazine (issue number 562) under the sub-heading of Have You Got Everything You Want?
ESET researchers found various versions of the malware, and believe that in May 2020 it was still under development.
United Kingdom In England and Wales, a person who, not within their abode, has any article to be used in the course of or in connection with any burglary or theft can potentially be prosecuted.
Kimberley Vanvaeck (known as Gigabyte) is a Belgian hacker recognized for writing the first virus in C#.
Criminal law Currently, there are not many laws pertaining to the punishment that one may receive from obtaining the genetic material of others without their consent.
Dashiell Hammett's novel The Maltese Falcon (1930) recounts the story, apparently based on a true case, of a businessman named Flitcraft who spontaneously abandons his career and his marriage, abruptly moving to another city and inventing another identity.
Under Byrne, a new Superman comic was released every week and each series maintained continuity with the others.
Worms almost always cause at least some harm to the network, even if only by consuming bandwidth, whereas viruses almost always corrupt or modify files on a targeted computer.
In 2018, she pleaded guilty to "third-degree aggravated criminal sexual contact" and was sentenced to time served.
With proper documentation, most individuals should be able to unfreeze your credit scores with all three bureaus within 15 to 20 minutes.
According to Time magazine, a 17-year-old Russian teen was suspected to be the author of the Point of Sale (POS) malware program, "BlackPOS", which was used by others to attack unpatched Windows computers used at Target.
Administrative sanctions US FTC actions The US Federal Trade Commission has sued Internet marketing organizations under the "unfairness doctrine" to make them stop infecting consumers' PCs with spyware.
Lacking a suitable network buyer, they tabled sales efforts until years later, when a talent manager on Weiner's team, Ira Liss, pitched the series to AMC Vice President of Development Christina Wayne.
In 1918, Dayton, who donated most of his money to charity, founded the Dayton Foundation with $1 million.
Keyboard overlays: Criminals have been known to use keyboard overlays on ATMs to capture people's PINs.
He faces multiple charges in Washington state, including conspiracy, computer fraud, extortion, and identity theft.
His role is that of a strict taskmaster who brings spending under control, in particular by cutting out frivolous expenses.
The rule was passed in January 2008, and was to be in place by November 1, 2008, but due to push-backs by opposition, the FTC delayed enforcement until December 31, 2010.
744) is a bill that would increase the penalties on identity thieves in the United States and change the definition of identity theft to include businesses and organizations instead of just individuals.
A liveness test, liveness check or liveness detection is an automated method for determining whether a subject is a real person or part of a spoofing attack.
Its congregation appealed to George Dayton, an active parishioner, to purchase the empty corner lot adjacent to the original church so it could be rebuilt; he eventually constructed a six-story building on the newly purchased property.
Later comics featuring Doomsday included Superman/Doomsday: Hunter/Prey (1995), which explores his origin, and "Reign of Doomsday" (2011), which heavily references "The Death of Superman" and features him hunting down the Supermen.
In August 2017, customers of Amazon faced the Amazon Prime Day phishing attack, when hackers sent out seemingly legitimate deals to customers of Amazon.
An example of this is the voices of celebrities and public officials being cloned, and the voice may say something to provoke conflict despite the actual person has no association with what their voice said.
"You have the biggest-ever worm loose in the net, and it automatically sabotages any attempt to monitor it.
On 15 July 2014, the Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism of the Committee on the Judiciary, United States Senate, held a hearing on the threats posed by botnets and the public and private efforts to disrupt and dismantle them.
Detection Traditional countermeasures of cryptojacking are host-based and not suitable for corporate networks.
Law enforcement has also exerted pressure on banks to shut down merchant gateways involved in processing rogue security software purchases.
He discovered that his father was involved in a scam, which caused shame and problems in his family and his work.
One particularly controversial case which received widespread attention in the media was that of Derrell Teat, a wastewater coordinator, who sought to acquire without consent the DNA of a man who was allegedly the last male descendant of her great-great-great-grandfather's brother.
Despite the gap between the releases of "Funeral for a Friend" and "Reign of the Supermen!", no time passed within the continuity of the comics.
The store replaced the former Bon-Ton (originally Almy's and later Steinbach), which closed in January 2018.
Infostealers are usually distributed under the malware-as-a-service (MaaS) model, where developers allow other parties to use their infostealers for subscription fees.
An attacker would place this executable script in a publicly writable and "high-traffic" location (e.g., /tmp/ls).
In February 2011, Michaels and Aaron Brothers stores suffered a data compromise which affected their debit card terminals in 20 states.
The new POS malware foregrounds on how speed the credit card data is stolen and sent back to the hackers.
In a video liveness test, users are typically asked to look into a camera and to move, smile or blink, and features of their moving face may then be compared to that of a still image.
She has saved up a modest sum to buy a small farm, directing the remainder of her fortune to charity.
The novel consists of linked stories set at an adult day care center for disabled people in Southern California, told from the perspectives of both clients and staff members.
If the device has a lock screen, however, the process becomes more difficult as the attacker must acquire the background picture to put on the lock screen of the mimicking device.
In 1995, Michaels Stores acquired Aaron Brothers Holdings, Inc., a specialty framing and art supply store.
She lives for her daughters, but is secretly afraid of other relationships, preferring to flee rather than settle down and face the possibility of rejection.
History The first ever computer worm is generally accepted to be a self-replicating version of Creeper created by Ray Tomlinson and Bob Thomas at BBN in 1971 to replicate itself across the ARPANET.
"The Case of the Discontented Soldier": First published in issue 614 of Woman's Pictorial of 15 October 1932 (illustrated by J.A.
This unauthorized access occurs through phishing, skimming, and information sharing by a user, oftentimes unknowingly.
Akira v2 Akira v2 is written in Rust and is designed to locate files based on specific parameters, tailoring encryption to more specific file types.
As the series unfolds, DS Wareing becomes more and more concerned about Bloom's methods and frustrated by what he sees as Martha's blind and foolish indulgence of him.
Media depictions Movies often depict a safe-cracker determining the combination of a safe lock using his fingers or a sensitive listening device to determine the combination of a rotary combination lock.
In 2020, he was quoted by The Economist newspaper because of another video that also went viral on social networks.
The technique is used as part of know your customer checks in financial services and during facial age estimation.
Overview Wireless identity theft is a relatively new technique for gathering individuals' personal information from RF-enabled cards carried on a person in their access control, credit, debit, or government issued identification cards.
WOMBO Me Wombo Me is an avatar app that transforms a single selfie style photo into multiple life like images.
A soundtrack album for I Know What You Did Last Summer was released by Madison Gate Records on October 15, 2021, featuring original music by composers Drum & Lace and Ian Hultquist.
The entire 800-strong Oakland police force, as well as police departments from around the state and nation, as well as a contingent from Canada, attended the event.
He explained that the change followed a long period of previous burnout where he commonly experienced twitchy eyes and back pain.
This incident raises further concern for Europe regarding foreign espionage, as there were several other incidents where foreign nationals were arrested for taking photos of military sites and trying to collect sensitive information.
References Joanne Harris's website Authortrek.com Mesoamerican mythology and belief Washington Post: review of The Girl With No Shadow Review from the Daily Telegraph
DNA contains adequate amount of information about someone and it can be used for many purposes such as establishing paternity, proving genealogical connections or even unmasking private medical conditions.
It was referred to the United States House Committee on the Judiciary and the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security and Investigations.
In 2009, researchers at the Symantec Rapid Response team released a technical analysis of the Zeus infostealer, one of the first infostealers to be created.
This allows for randomization of the button positions, which is normally performed each time the keypad is powered on.
The process of stealing computing resources as a result of a system being joined to a "botnet" is sometimes referred to as "scrumping".
A -." On July 6, 2008 The Broken Window was on The New York Times hardcover fiction best seller list.
April 2011: Carnegie Mellon CyLab and AllClear ID released "Child Identity Theft" research reporting that child identity theft is a faster-growing crime than adult identity theft.
Controversies As part of a 2009 settlement with Experian related to false fraud alerts allegations, LifeLock released a service that did not rely on fraud alerts.
The group initially exchanged messages about staffing arrangements, with principals designating representatives from their departments for coordination purposes.
Many spyware components would also make use of exploits in JavaScript, Internet Explorer and Windows to install without user knowledge or permission.
Psychologist Stuart Vyse noted, "This young man was brought on The Today Show to mark Autism Awareness Month, and yet, in a cruel irony, everything about this case suggests that his true nature was not acceptable to his parents.
In Shiraz, Pyne learns from the local consul that Lady Esther lives reclusively in a nearby house, avoiding all contact with the English community since her companion’s death in a fall from a balcony.
In January 2024, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) opened applications from vendors to test their Liveness test.
Daxin is capable of hijacking legitimate TCP/IP connections, exchanging digital keys with a remote peer, and opening encrypted communication channels for receiving commands and sending information back to the remote source.
Once the attachment is opened, the first stage downloader is commonly executed with the help of VBS macros, scripts or through vulnerability exploits, including CVE-2017-11882/CVE-2018-0802.
Patches are often released to fix identified vulnerabilities, but those that remain unknown (zero days) as well as those that have not been patched are still liable for exploitation.
However, in April 2007 Jackson himself was indicted for money laundering, conspiracy and operating an unlicensed money transmitting business.
The Death and Return of Superman is a beat 'em up in which the player controls Superman and the Supermen as they attempt to save Metropolis.
At Naval Air Station Key West, Florida, an F-35 fighter jet training base, Chinese nationals claiming to be tourists and students have repeatedly breached the base.
Until one day, a letter arrives in the mail, containing a single sentence; "Who are you?" Adaptations The novel was adapted in 1950 into a movie directed by Mitchell Leisen called No Man of Her Own, into telenovela Brazilian, A Intrusa in 1962 and another in 1967.
The scheme also relies on a mutual authentication protocol, which makes it less vulnerable to attacks that affect user-only authentication schemes.
Victims During this incident, four policemen were killed in the line of duty, and a fifth officer was also shot but survived.
In September 2020, a manuscript was stolen from a Pulitzer Prize-winning author, who according to Forbes has not been publicly identified.
The Riches (styled as the R1¢hes) is an American drama television series which was originally broadcast from March 12, 2007, to April 29, 2008, on FX.
The stolen data is instantly transferred to the Control and Command Server that is hardcoded by the hacker.
No security devices or programs can keep an organization safe if an employee reveals a password to an unauthorized person.
Hackers speculated that the attempts could be a low-risk training program for teaching hacking techniques.
In announcing the change, the board's chairman noted McGregor's "extensive data security, cybersecurity, information technology and risk management experience".
John, having lost heavily at a casino, steals a diamond ring from her friend Lady Naomi Dortheimer to cover her debts.
Delilah "Di Di" Malloy (Shannon Marie Woodward) – Di Di is the adolescent daughter of Wayne and Dahlia.
Identity frauds peaked during the COVID-19 lockdown, leading government agencies to take reinforced measures to secure their digital applications.
Social engineering of mail order sales representatives are suggested in order to provide passable information for card not present transactions.
447), the Aztec goddess who gave birth to the moon and stars, is the patron of women who die during childbirth.
They posted a Q&A to communicate with the public by embedding messages in transactions with their addresses.
Cardholders can mitigate this fraud risk by checking their account frequently to ensure there are not any suspicious or unknown transactions.
copyright law generally requires that original authorship be attributable to a human; however, the extent of human intervention needed to satisfy this requirement is not clear.
LifeLock is identity theft prevention software, initially sold by the LifeLock company, and now sold by Gen.
This can easily occur when a subject is interviewed at home, as has become common in the 21st century and was especially so during lockdowns ordered by governments during the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic.
With Youl as its CEO, it is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia and has offices in London, Dubai, and San Francisco.
Miguel Camacho feared that Laso intended to kill the whole family one by one, and hired a private investigator to find evidence that Laso had actually killed his wife and child.
He wants to find the origin of a dealer's seemingly endless supply of drugs before publishing an exposé.
In addition, the security clearance process weeds out employees who are openly disgruntled, ideologically disaffected, or otherwise having motives for betraying their country, so people in such positions are likely to reject recruitment as spies.
Bataclan theatre attackers Three gunmen wearing suicide vests attacked the Bataclan theatre on 13 November 2015 using AKMs and taking hostages.
The contribution of a company's actions to a data breach varies, and likewise the liability for the damage resulting for data breaches is a contested matter.
I intended no harm, and I had nothing to gain." In July 2017, an appeals court overturned her conviction and ordered a retrial on the basis that it was a violation of her rights to not allow her to use facilitated communication as a defense.
The department currently allocates its funding to investigate and prosecute a wide range of criminal activity, including identity theft.
Bottom Line: Rhyme still intrigues in his eighth outing, while Deaver's scarily believable depiction of identity theft in a total-surveillance society stokes our paranoia.
Confession and charges Multiple reports claim that the suspect, during his questioning by Greek military prosecutors and intelligence personnel, had confessed his guilt of transmitting classified military information to the Chinese.
Brianne Tju as Margot, the millionaire and best friend of Johnny and Lennon, although she is attracted to her.
Gamble also has several CVE's assigned to his name, including vulnerabilities identified in the encrypted messaging app Wire and Sitecore.
I Married a Dead Man is a 1948 novel by American crime writer Cornell Woolrich under the pseudonym William Irish.
The sudden boom in deepfake technology has been described as "a cultural tipping point we aren't ready for", as it is now possible to create a deepfake from any picture off social media in a very short amount of time.
In 2011, Larry and his ally Tracy Thresher were in a documentary called Wretches & Jabberers, which documented his travels around the world.
On April 19, 2013 the SEC and CFTC published their joint final Identity Theft Red Flags Rule and guidelines to be effective May 20, 2013, with a compliance date of November 20, 2013.
Criticism Following the announcement of the May–July 2017 breach, Equifax's actions received widespread criticism.
After marrying Kimi Winters, he moved to Berkeley, California, and worked as a freelance pentester and security consultant.
Identity theft Identity theft is the unauthorized use of another's personal or financial information to defraud an individual or entity into obtaining goods or services.
Spyware which attacks affiliate networks places the spyware operator's affiliate tag on the user's activity – replacing any other tag, if there is one.
On July 23, 2024, the Cybercrime Offices of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) and the Philippine National Police released their findings that the man of the video is "definitely not" President Marcos, noting the discrepancies of the facial features of the man in the video and Marcos.
The group conducted a series of cyberattacks, including social engineering, data breach, and denial-of-service attacks, on the websites of various organizations in 2012.
Many companies like UPS and Federal Express have started to collaborate with the United States Postal Service to begin surveilling money postal orders.
In 1984, Michaels was first publicly traded (on NASDAQ) under parent entity The Michaels Companies, which operated 16 stores.
In reality, the mission successfully delivered government papers under the guise of an unrelated adventure.
Dayton-Hudson acquired two Twin Cities mail-order firms, Sibley and Consolidated Merchandising, that same year.
The term has also come to be used to refer to intrusions on videographed sessions, such as interviews and news reports, either by parties the video producers did not intend to feature or by unforeseen, often whimsical, acts.
The car insurance provided Laso with 3.5 million pesetas that he used to establish a video rental store.
The stolen data can be user credentials, payment information which depends on the business procedures.
Methods Akira primarily targets Cisco VPN products as an attack vector to breach networks, especially those without multi-factor authentication enabled.
This was one of several videos produced by Yellow Dot Studios as part of the BLO's campaign to leverage the publicity surrounding the launch of the Barbie film to raise concerns about the pervasive use of plastics.
In 1995, AOL implemented measures to prevent the use of fake credit card numbers to open accounts, leading to an increase in phishing for legitimate accounts.
The right of publicity, recognized in many state-level statutes and common law, allows individuals to bring legal claims against unauthorized commercial use of their identities.
His case is notable as an espionage case where the Navy and trial court officials have denied access to basic information, including the court docket.
Ongoing proceedings As of February 2026, the legal and military proceedings against the officer are still ongoing.
The term was coined by Richard Stallman, to contrast the maliciousness of a criminal hacker versus the spirit of playfulness and exploration in hacker culture, or the ethos of the white hat hacker who performs hacking duties to identify places to repair or as a means of legitimate employment.
Author Kevvie Fowler estimates that more than half the direct cost incurred by companies is in the form of litigation expenses and services provided to affected individuals, with the remaining cost split between notification and detection, including forensics and investigation.
Analysis of their tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) indicates potential overlaps with other threat actors, suggesting shared methods within the cybercriminal ecosystem.
Adoption and certification In a 2022 report published by the security firm Sensity, it was demonstrated that the liveness test of most US banks was easily cheated with new and publicly-available AI-powered techniques.
The first four episodes premiered to mixed reviews on Amazon Prime Video on October 15, 2021, with the remaining episodes debuting on a weekly basis.
He graduated from UCLA in 2022, the first nonspeaking autistic student to do so, where he received the English Department's Christopher Zyda Creative Writing Award.
Verification Government agencies Interior Secretary Benhur Abalos ordered the creation of a special task force to investigate the video.
He is a founding member of the Honeynet Project and Vice President of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility.
By 2006, Smith was off the project, replaced by Bill Lawrence, in what would have been his directorial debut.
Most of these viruses are written in the scripting languages for Microsoft programs such as Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel and spread throughout Microsoft Office by infecting documents and spreadsheets.
An indicator of this was that Camacho had not instinctively lifted her head as the train approached, unlike all deceased in known instances of suicide on train tracks.
Professional and personal life Butler moved with his father near Seattle and worked in part-time technical support positions in various companies.
Stability issues, such as applications freezing, failure to boot, and system-wide crashes are also common.
By interviewing Stanwyck's friends and family under a variety of pretexts, a baffled Fletch discovers Stanwyck seems to be in good health and happily married with no plausible reason to kill himself.
Reaction Poly Network's decision to refer to the hackers as "white hats" angered some in the security world who worried that it might set a precedent for criminal hackers to whitewash their actions.
In addition to Michaels stores, the Michaels Companies operates Aaron Brothers Custom Framing store-within-a-store, and Artistree, a manufacturer of custom and specialty framing merchandise.
The breach affected numerous high-profile clients and has been regarded as one of the most significant data security incidents of the decade.
A successful prosecution would need to prove intention to use the tools for that purpose at the time of possession.
Bendelladj is currently held at the Terminal Island - Federal Bureau of Prisons, a minimum security facility.
History Claire Contreras, a vlogger who goes by the name Maharlika first teased the existence of the polvoron video during a livestream on the Facebook page Boldyakan during the evening of July 21, 2024.
After finishing high school in Unaí, at the age of 19, he moved to São José do Rio Preto in search of higher education, where he has an incomplete degree in Journalism and Law.
In 1971, Dayton-Hudson acquired sixteen stores from the Arlan's department store chain in Colorado, Iowa, and Oklahoma.
Akira is estimated to have earned up to $42 million from its inception in March 2023, until April 2024.
Gamble currently works in the information security sector, specifically as a Senior Security Consultant helping businesses identify vulnerabilities in their systems.
The organization also warned that such mechanisms could disadvantage smaller competitors that lack the resources to implement large-scale content moderation systems.
It was attended by Mixon's mother, his wife, some of his family members, and approximately 60 other people.
Products Michaels Stores sells a variety of arts and crafts products including scrapbooking, beading, knitting, rubber stamping, home décor items, floral items, kids' crafts, paints, framing, greenery, baking, and many seasonal items.
The AV-company Sophos reported in November 2011 that this threat mainly spreads itself through malicious links through the social network Facebook.
In 2022, the FBI arrested Filippo Bernardini, a 29-year-old Italian citizen living in London and working for Simon & Schuster.
Equifax did not immediately disclose whether PINs and other sensitive information were compromised, nor did it explain the delay between its discovery of the breach in July and its public announcement in early September.
LifeLock took the affected page offline after being notified and stated that no customer data had been compromised.
No longer living in Lansquenet-sous-Tannes, Vianne Rocher and her two daughters, Anouk and Rosette, are settled in the Montmartre quarter of Paris.
The decryptor does not work natively on Linux systems, and if needed it is recommended to use a WINE layer to run the decryptor on a Linux machine.
Lootings In November 2008, an international team of thieves stole US$9 million from ATMs around the world using fake cards which took money from Worldpay.
The stance adopted by the UK banking body APACS is that "customers must also take sensible precautions ...
Greek defense officials are also investigating whether others were involved or if there is a larger network behind the case.
264) or Vucub Caquix was a Mayan god who would often claim to be the sun or the moon to his worshippers.
Arid Viper targets high-profile organisations in Israel and Kuwait to show solidarity for Palestine.
In the video, Jair Bolsonaro appears singing the song I Will Always Love You, in Whitney Houston's version, where he serenades former US President Donald Trump (a satire alluding to the Brazilian president's excessive affection for Trump).
Origin, conceptualization and effects of perceived dimensions of truth, mockery and offensiveness defines brandjacking as a form of anti-commercial parody that changes the original meaning of an advertisement in order to criticize a company or draw attention to perceived concerns about the brand.
Provisions of the bill This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.
Usually, the person who steals this identity (the "ghoster") is roughly the same age that the ghost would have been if still alive, so that any documents citing the birthdate of the ghost will not be conspicuously incorrect if appropriated by the thief now claiming to be that person.
Both films have been criticized by the science community for claiming that Bissonnette can communicate through the discredited pseudoscience facilitated communication.
The authors found that even small deviations in typing patterns could be strong indicators of impersonations.
Similar to cross-site request forgery which utilizes a web client, for example, a web browser, within the domain as a proxy for attacks; an SSRF attack utilizes a vulnerable server within the domain as a proxy.
The Red Flags Rule was created by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), along with other government agencies such as the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), to help prevent identity theft.
Opportunistic criminals may cause data breaches—often using malware or social engineering attacks, but they will typically move on if the security is above average.
Passports, Passport Cards, and also enhanced driver's licenses issued by States of New York and Washington, contain RFID chips for the purpose of assisting those policing the U.S.
The bill would increase the penalties on identity thieves in the United States and change the definition of identity theft to include businesses and organizations instead of just individuals.
In bioethics and law, gene theft or DNA theft is the act of acquiring the genetic material of another individual, usually from public places, without their permission.
Various security issues have been identified with their use, including the ability of black hats to harvest their identifier numbers at a distance and apply them to blank counterfeit documents and cards, thus assuming those people's identifiers.
Note that as with computer viruses, researchers give names to spyware programs which may not be used by their creators.
The Federal Trade Commission estimates that 27.3 million Americans have been victims of identity theft, and that financial losses from identity theft totaled nearly $48 billion for businesses and financial institutions and at least $5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses for individuals.
The Software Publishers Association filed a $300,000 lawsuit against Butler for engaging in unauthorized distribution of software from CompuServe's office and later settled the case for $3,500 and free computer consulting.
A company brochure for the product states "Police use ODIN facial recognition to identify even non-verbal or intoxicated individuals".
The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) expects that the legislation could result in a reallocation of DOJ resources, but we estimate that implementing the bill would have no significant net cost to the federal government.
1987 A phishing technique was described in detail in a paper and presentation delivered to the 1987 International HP Users Group, Interex.
In 2023, the company shut down its original app due to copyright issues, and they launched Wombo Meme, a tool for creating memes from selfies.
School officials were also granted the ability to take snapshots of instant messages, web browsing, music playlists, and written compositions.
Such companies possess huge amounts of patient personal data that can be extremely valuable to an attacker.
While the first such examples were sent indiscriminately in the expectation that some would be received by customers of a given bank or service, recent research has shown that phishers may in principle be able to determine which banks potential victims use, and target bogus emails accordingly.
Markoff, John (March 15, 2006), "Study Says Chips in ID Tags Are Vulnerable to Viruses", The New York Times, retrieved 2009-03-14 (on how deliberately corrupted RFID tags could introduce viruses into computer systems).
A 17-year-old hacker and accomplices set up a fake website resembling Twitter's internal VPN provider used by remote working employees.
Just after midnight Moscow time, the chat named an active CIA intelligence officer; according to a Telegram post by Sergei Markov, Witkoff and Putin were in a meeting until 1:30 a.m.
In 2016, researcher Sasha Romanosky estimated that while the mean breach cost around the targeted firm $5 million, this figure was inflated by a few highly expensive breaches, and the typical data breach was much less costly, around $200,000.
Networks of such machines are often referred to as botnets and are very commonly used for a range of malicious purposes, including sending spam or performing DoS attacks.
The next day, the woman had a car accident and was informed that someone had manipulated the brakes.
2000 " Philosophy and Prophetic Postmodernism: Toward a Catholic Postmodernity ,"American Catholic Philosophical Quarterly, 74: 4 (Autumn, 2000): 549-568.
Walter Kaufmann, Modern Library, 2000, ISBN 0-679-78339-3 in: 'On the Genealogy of Morals and Ecce Homo', trans.
February 26, 2008: Public speech in Massachusetts and interview with Amy Goodman: Noam Chomsky: "Why is Iraq Missing from 2008 Presidential Race?" Democracy Now!
Lecture 3", MS 160: November–December 1869, W 2:317-336, PEP Eprint Archived 2008-05-31 at the Wayback Machine.
"The Science of Man and Unified Science." Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 80 (1951): 37-44.
(1871 October), Review of Fraser's The Works of George Berkeley, North American Review 113, Boston: James R.
Anderson, Value in Ethics and Economics, 1993 Paul Ormerod, The Death of Economics, 1994 Amartya Sen, Development as Freedom, 1999 Steve Keen, Debunking Economics: The Naked Emperor of the Social Sciences, 2001/2011 Ethics G.
(1870), "Description of a Notation for the Logic of Relatives, Resulting from an Amplification of the Conceptions of Boole's Calculus of Logic", Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 9 (1870), 317–378.
Hollingdale, Cambridge University Press, 1997, ISBN 0-521-58584-8 as: Unfashionable Observations, trans.
"The Invention of Revelation: A Hybrid Hegelian Approach with a Dash of Deconstruction," in Revelation: Claremont Studies in the Philosophy of Religion, Conference 2012, (eds.) I.U.
The dash at the beginning of each entry below is a shorthand for the author's name, Joseph Priestley, consistent with standard bibliographic custom.
The series is being published under the auspices of the Bentham Project, based in the Faculty of Laws at University College London, whose library holds the majority of Bentham's surviving manuscripts.
'We need to talk about God', Church Times (an independent Church of England newspaper), February 2016.
"On Being Clear about Faith: A Response to Stephen Williams," Books and Culture: A Christian Review, Vol.
Electronic journal (https://www.jcrt.org/current.html.) "Otherwise than Ethics, Or Why We Too are Sill Impious," in American Continental Philosophy: A Reader, eds.
ISBN 978-84-15353-46-1 (2013) Power Systems: Conversations on Global Democratic Uprisings and the New Challenges to U.S.
Some time later, the Kingdom of Pergamon began conscripting books for a royal library, and the heirs of Neleus hid their collection in a cellar to prevent it from being seized for that purpose.
Literaturbericht zur philosophischen Diskussion un Marx und den Marxismus, in «Philosophische Rundschau», V, 3–4, 1957, pp.
"God, Perhaps: The Dialectical Hermeneutics of God in the Work of Richard Kearney," Philosophy Today (Selected Studies in Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy, Vol 36) Vol 55 (SPEP Supplement, 2011):56-64.
Caputo Archives) (2026) The Collected Philosophical and Theological Papers, Volume 7 [2013-2023]: Theopoetics, ed.
"Experiments on the lateral Force of Electrical Explosions." Philosophical Transactions 59 (1769): 57–62.
234 – 305 AD), Isagoge Hermes Trismegistus, Corpus Hermeticum Medieval philosophy Augustine of Hippo, Confessions, c.
(1992), From Time & Chance to Consciousness: Studies in the Metaphysics of Charles Peirce, Berg Publishers, 256 pages, hardcover (ISBN 978-0854963799, ISBN 0-85496-379-0).
Other volume numbers exist for the different editions of his complete works that were published at various times over the past two centuries: Berlin 1832–1845 edition Vollständige Ausgabe (complete edition) Bd.
The latter essays were collected first in English, partially because the last of the two was written in response to a questions put in a letter from Gerald Graff.
Hollingdale, Penguin Classics, 1990, ISBN 0-14-044514-5 in: 'The Anti-Christ, Ecce Homo, Twilight of the Idols and Other Writings', trans.
A Familiar Illustration of Certain Passages of Scripture relating to the power of man to do the Will of God, Original Sin, Election and Reprobation, the Divinity of Christ and Atonement for Sin by the Death of Christ.
Heads of Lectures on a Course of Experimental Philosophy, particularly including Chemistry; delivered at the New College in Hackney.
Curtiss Hancock and Robert Sweetman, in Faith and the Intellectual Life (Washington D.C.: The Catholic University of America Press, 2003), pp.
Abraham a Sankta Clara (1910) Frühe Gedichte (1910–1916) Schöpferische Landschaft: Warum bleiben wir in der Provinz?
Montréal: Black Rose, ISBN 0-919619-50-3 {{isbn}}: ignored ISBN errors (link); Stirling, Scotland: AK Press.
The newly included Second Part includes seven texts from the period between 1927 and 1968: a self-announcement of Being and Time, two textual witnesses from Heidegger's collaboration with Edmund Husserl, three texts (an announcement and two prefaces) to What is Metaphysics?
Toussaint Louverture: La Révolution française et le problème colonial, Paris: Club français du livre, 1960, OCLC 263448333.
The Corpus Aristotelicum is the collection of Aristotle's works that have survived from antiquity through medieval manuscript transmission.
"Thirteen Ways to Live – A Report on Reactions of Readers of Religious Humanism." Religious Humanism 2 (1968): 85-86.
Markey, The Symbolic Process and Its Integration in Children." Philosophical Review 38 (1929): 612-615.
An Address to Protestant Dissenters of all Denominations on the Approaching Election of Members of Parliament, with Respect to the State of Public Liberty in General, and of American Affairs in Particular.
Printed editions Aristotle's works have been published in many printed editions, either as complete editions of all surviving writings or as partial collections.
"Olthuis's Risk: A Heretical Tribute," in The Hermeneutics of Charity: Interpretation, Selfhood and Postmodern Faith, eds.
New York Harper & Row [1956, c1948] R–Z Repetition: an essay in experimental psychology Translated with introduction and notes by Walter Lowrie.
"Husserl, Heidegger, and the Question of a Hermeneutic Phenomenology," Husserl Studies I (1984), 157-58.
City as Classroom: Understanding Language and Media with Kathryn Hutchon and Eric McLuhan; Book Society of Canada, Agincourt, Ontario.
2, November 2008, special issue Peirce Logic and Mining Safety (Shepperson memorial issue), Routledge, University of South Africa Press: catalog page (see also Richmond, Gary (2008) above for highly relevant free-access article): (2001), "Realism, logic and social communication: C.S.
Dennett, Darwin's Dangerous Idea: Evolution and the Meanings of Life, 1995 Martin Mahner and Mario Bunge, Foundations of Biophilosophy, 1997 Kim Sterelny and Paul E.
Economy and Society: An Outline of Interpretive Sociology (1st translation - 1968; 2nd translation - 2019) - 1st translation into English by Guenther Roth and Claus Wittich; 2nd translation by Keith Tribe.
Nietzsches Metaphysik (announced for the winter semester 1941/42) Einleitung in die Philosophie – Denken und Dichten (Winter semester 1944/45), ed.
(1929) Vom Wesen des Grundes (1929) Vom Wesen der Wahrheit (1930) Platons Lehre von der Wahrheit (1931/32, 1940) Vom Wesen und Begriff der Φὐσις.
Available online: Speirs and Sanderson translation (introduction) Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion: One-volume Edition, The Lectures of 1827 (Berlin, 1827), tr.
Old House of Fear Old House of Fear, original text (New York, NY: Fleet Publishing Corporation, 1961): Pre-ISBN Hardback, 256 pp.
Edwards, The Logic of Moral Discourse." Annuals of the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences 307 (1956): 181.
(1952) Bauen Wohnen Denken (1951) Das Ding (1950) »...dichterisch wohnet der Mensch...« (1951) Logos (Heraklit, Fragment 50) (1951) Moira (Parmenides, Fragment VIII, 34–41) (1952) Aletheia (Heraklit, Fragment 16) (1954) 8.
II Documents (1918–1943): After the Archive Revolution: New sources on the history of the KPD and German-Russian relations].
A very detailed discussion and analysis of the handwritten manuscript, see Das Älteste Systemprogramm des deutschen Idealismus - neue Transkription by Christoph v.
ISBN 978-1-64259-458-4 (paperback), ISBN 978-1-64259-479-9 (e-book), ISBN 978-1-64259-500-0 (hardback) (2022) The Withdrawal: Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, and the Fragility of U.S.
ISBN 9780002160537 (1973) Counter-Revolutionary Violence – Bloodbaths in Fact & Propaganda (with Edward S.
A Defence of a Dialetheic Account of Negation', in D.Gabbay and H.Wansing (eds.), What is Negation?, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1999.
Kaplan, ‘Content Analysis and the Theory of Signs’." Philosophy of Science 10 (1943): 230-247 and 247-249.
(Oxford University Press, 1955) Jonathan Barnes translation, 2 vols., 1984 Notes Sources Works cited External links Winzenrieth, Justin.
(1973) Trattato di semiotica generale (1975 – English translation: A Theory of Semiotics, 1976) Il superuomo di massa: Studi sul romanzo popolare (1976) Stelle & stellette: La via lattea mormorò (1976), illustrated by Philippe Druillet Storia di una rivoluzione mai esistita: L'esperimento Vaduz.
Alan Bass (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1981, ISBN 978-0-226-14331-6) [Paris, Minuit, 1972].
Phänomenologische Interpretation von Kants Kritik der reinen Vernunft (Winter semester 1927/28), ed.
Neal Deroo and Marko Zlomsic (Wipf and Stock Press) (2009) Christopher Ben Simpson, Religion, Metaphysics and the Postmodern: William Desmond and John D.
"Observations and Experiments relating to equivocal, or spontaneous Generation." Transactions of the American Philosophical Society 6 (1809): 119–29.
Two Ages : the age of revolution and the present age, a literary review, 1846 Edited and translated with introd.
Brown (ed.), Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics, (second edition) Vol.7, 156–9, Elsevier, 2005.
Ein marxistischer Schelling – Zu Ernst Blochs spekulativen Materialismus, in «Merkur», XIV, 153, 11.1960, pp.
"Toward a Postmodern Theology of the Cross: Heidegger, Augustine, Derrida," in Postmodern Philosophy and Christian Thought, ed.
Fitzgerald, John Joseph (1966), Peirce's theory of signs as foundation for pragmatism, Mouton, The Hague, 182 pages.
ISBN 978-0-241-98197-9 (2017) Global Discontents: Conversations on the Rising Threats to Democracy (American Empire Project) (with David Barsamian).
Nag Hammadi and Manichaean Studies (NHMS; ISSN 0929-2470) is an academic book series on Gnosticism, the Nag Hammadi library, Manichaeism, and related subjects.
Mead: A Pragmatist's Philosophy of Science." In Scientific Psychology: Principles and Approaches, ed.
'Motivations for Paraconsistency: the Slippery Slope from Classical Logic to Dialetheism', in D.Batens et al.
The Medium Is the Massage: An Inventory of Effects with Quentin Fiore, produced by Jerome Agel; 1st Ed.: Random House; reissued by Gingko Press, 2001 ISBN 1-58423-070-3.
There, Andronicus of Rhodes organized the texts into the first complete edition of Aristotle's works (and works attributed to him).
Retrieved 15 April 2017.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) "Fred Stein: Hannah Arendt, photograph (1944): Philosopher in a contemplative pose".
(Reissued with minor corrections by UCL Press in open access formats in 2017: ISBN 978-1-911576-23-5) Dinwiddy, J.
text at Pensar el Espacio Público Archived 13 January 2021 at the Wayback Machine Wolin, Richard (2001).
Oration Commemorative of American Independence, Delivered at Utica: July 5, 1824 (Utica: William Williams, printer).
1791) One hundred and eleven notes on the New Justine (1791) The New Justine (La Nouvelle Justine, ou les Malheurs de la vertu, novel, 3rd version of Justine, pub.
"Reading the Lives of Others: Biography as Political Thought in Hannah Arendt and Simone de Beauvoir".
3:2], preached at the Gravel Pit Meeting in Hackney, February 28, 1794, being the Day appointed for a General Fast.
"Before Creation: Derrida's Memory of God," Mosaic: A Journal for the Interdisciplinary Study of Literature, 39:3 (September, 2006): 91-102.
"Prospects for a New Synthesis: Science and the Humanities as Complementary Activities." In Science and the Modern Mind, ed.
Paperback ISBN 978-1-5036-3698-9 Unpublished Fragments from the Period of Thus Spoke Zarathustra (Summer 1882–Winter 1883/84).
Wimsatt The Verbal Icon Virginia Woolf A Room of One's Own Slavoj Žižek The Sublime Object of Ideology The Ticklish Subject: The Absent Centre of Political Ontology See also List of critical theorists Outline of critical theory Pedagogy of the Oppressed (1968) == References ==
A new (2022) database application (GA-App) connecting Heidegger's teaching, lectures, and publications is online here.
The Bentham Project currently consists of four members of staff: Professor Philip Schofield, the Director of the Project and General Editor of the Collected Works, Dr Tim Causer, Dr Chris Riley, and Dr Peter Lythe.
Hardcover ISBN 978-0-8047-2882-9; Paperback ISBN 978-1-5036-1254-9 in: 'The Antichrist + Fragments from a Shattering Mind: Exterminating Texts and Terminal Ecstasies', trans.
1854), The Physiology of the Senses, or How and What We See, Hear, Taste, Feel, and Smell (New York and Cincinnati: Derby and Jackson, 214pp.
Swenson and Lillian Marvin Swenson, Augsburg Publishing House, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1943 Eighteen Upbuilding Discourses, Søren Kierkegaard 1843-1844 Copyright 1990 by Howard V.
Jeffrey Robbins (New York: Columbia University Press, 2007), 114-60 (2005) "Emmet Cole Interviews John D.
Hayek, a planned series of 19 newly edited editions of Hayek's books with interviews with the author, new editions of his articles and letters, and hitherto unpublished manuscripts.
A Description of a System of Biography with a Catalogue of All the Names Inserted in it and the Dates Annexed to Them.
ISBN 978-0-521-67026-5 German translation of Part 1 of Introduction to Non-Classical Logic: From If to Is: Einführung in die nicht-klassische Logik, Mentis 2008.
Swensen, Hackett Publishing Company, 1998, ISBN 0-87220-283-6 in: 'Beyond Good and Evil / On the Genealogy of Morality', trans.
Die Gründung, a) Da-Sein und Seinsentwurf, b) Das Da-sein, c) Das Wesen der Wahrheit, d) Der Zeit-Raum als der Ab-grund, e) Die Wesung der Wahrheit als Bergung VI.
Lawrence, Martin Heidegger: The Great Influence, in Id., Philosophical-Political Profiles (PPP), Cambridge (Mass.), MIT Press, 1983, pp.
According to a distinction that originates with Aristotle himself, his writings are divisible into two groups: the "exoteric" and the "esoteric".
Adorno, a 20th-century German philosopher, sociologist and critical theorist associated closely with the Frankfurt School.
Christian Discourses and The Lilies of the Field and the Birds of the Air, and Three Discourses at the Communion on Fridays trans.
Douglas Smith, Oxford University Press, 1996, ISBN 0-19-283617-X (paperback) as 'On the Genealogy of Morality', trans.
Daniel Breazeale, Prometheus Books, 1990, ISBN 1-57392-532-2 Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks, trans.
Phänomenologische Interpretationen ausgewählter Abhandlungen des Aristoteles zu Ontologie und Logik (Summer semester 1922), ed.
A member of marginalized religious groups throughout his life and a proponent of what was called "rational Dissent," Priestley advocated religious toleration and equal rights for Dissenters.
The Mechanical Bride: Folklore of Industrial Man; 1st Ed.: The Vanguard Press, NY; reissued by Gingko Press, 2002 ISBN 1-58423-050-9.
230 CE), works of Aristotle comprising 156 titles divided into approximately 400 books, which he reports as totaling 445,270 lines of writing; however, many of these are lost or only survive in fragments, and some may have been incorrectly attributed.
March 02, 2015: Noam Chomsky: After Dangerous Proxy War, Keeping Ukraine Neutral Offers Path to Peace with Russia Democracy Now!
The first two are uniform editions which, taken together, systematically collect all Kirk's stories.
The Auction Catalogue of Kierkegaard's Library, edited by Katalin Nun, Gerhard Schreiber and John Stewart (April 2015) Volume 21.
Unpublished Writings from the Period of Unfashionable Observations, The Complete Works of Friedrich Nietzsche.
Abendgespräch in einem Kriegsgefangenenlager in Russland zwischen einem Jüngeren und einem Älteren 78.
Correia, Joachim Hereth and Pöschel, Reinhard (2006), "The Teridentity and Peircean Algebraic Logic", Conceptual Structures: Inspiration and Application (ICCS 2006), pp.
The Classical Trivium: The Place of Thomas Nashe in the Learning of His Time (first publication of McLuhan's 1942 doctoral dissertation); Gingko Press ISBN 1-58423-067-3.
Auf dem Heimweg / Der Ring des Seyns / Wende / Dann sind wir bedacht / Amo: volo ut sis / Sonata sonans / Ankunft / Winke / An-fang und Beginn im Ereignis "der" Freyheit / Aus der Werkstatt / Hütte am Abend / Pindari Isthmia V, 1–16 / Herákleitos ho skyteinós.
Geoffrey Bennington & Rachel Bowlby (Chicago & London: University of Chicago Press, 1989, ISBN 978-0-226-14319-4).
(ongoing), the Pragmatism Cybrary "Dissertations on Pragmatism" [from 1896 onward] Eprint Books and Journal Issues about Pragmatism: 1990–1999, 2000–2009, (often with tables of contents from anthologies and journal issues).
Juli 1962) Die Bestimmung (Zur Frage nach der Bestimmung) der Sache des Denkens (24 Juli 1964, 30 Oktober 1965; 19 Juli 1967 Kiel zu W.
"Richard Kearney's Enthusiasm," in After God: Richard Kearney and the Religious Turn in Continental Philosophy, ed.
Not all of these works are considered genuine, but differ with respect to their connection to Aristotle, his associates and his views.
605–607 Aphorisms from the wastebook (1803–1806), Independent Journal of Philosophy 3, 1979 Who thinks abstractly?
to the Young Men, who are in a Course of Education for the Christian Ministry, at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
(2005), Reverence For The Relations Of Life: Re-imagining Pragmatism Via Josiah Royce's Interactions With Peirce, James, And Dewey, University of Notre Dame Press: catalog page, 498 pages, hardcover (ISBN 978-0268040192, ISBN 0-268-04019-2).
Hamburg: Institut für die Geschichte der deutschen Juden (IGdJ), Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG).
(1998), The Continuity of Peirce's Thought, Vanderbilt University Press, Nashville, TN, 288 pages, V.U.P.
Hamburg: Europäische Verlagsanstalt, 1993, ISBN 3-434-46209-0.) Italian translation: Il concetto di natura in Marx.
According to a chronology over Averroes’ writings by Joseph Kenny OP, Averroes first writings date from his age of 31 (year 1157).
Minneapolis, Minn., Augsburg publishing house [c1941] Three Discourses on Imagined Occasions Edited and translated with introduction and notes by Howard V.
Lecture courses, 1919–1944 Marburg lecture courses, 1923–1928 Freiburg lecture courses, 1928–1944 Early Freiburg lecture courses, 1919–1923 III.
Augustine, Blaise Pascal, William Blake, Søren Kierkegaard, Fyodor Dostoevsky, Leo Tolstoy, and Dietrich Bonhoeffer) Ostenfeld, Ib; McKinnon, Alastair (1972).
In his most lasting contributions to education, he argued for the benefits of a liberal arts education and of the value of the study of modern history.
The Place of Thomas Nashe in the Learning of His Time (doctoral dissertation); published as The Classical Trivium, 2006 below.
Ten essays on methods of abductive inference in Poe's Dupin, Doyle's Holmes, Peirce and many others.
"Edward Scribner Ames As Philosopher." The Scroll: The Journal of the Campbell Institute (Chicago) 44 (1958): 7-10.
A Literary Review : Two ages, a novel by the author of A story of everyday life Translated with an introduction and notes by Alastair Hannay.
1–25.] "The Prayers and Tears of Jacques Derrida" and "Laughing, Praying, Weeping before God: A Response [to the papers of David Wood, Edith Wyschogrod and Francis Ambrosio]" in S.
"From the Primordiality of Absence to the Absence of Primordiality," in Hermeneutics and Deconstruction, ed.
Hartley's Theory of the Human Mind on the Principle of the Association of Ideas, with Essays relating to the Subject of It.
Early nominalism and realism", MS 158: November–December 1869, W 2:310-316, PEP Eprint Archived 2007-04-24 at the Wayback Machine.
28: The Discipline of Practical Judgment in a Democratic Society." Journal of Philosophy 41 (1944): 302-304.
Judith Norman, Cambridge University Press, 2001, ISBN 0-521-77913-8 in: 'Beyond Good and Evil / On the Genealogy of Morality', trans.
"Die Geschiedenen: Die Frage ist, wie man überlebt: Der Briefwechsel zwischen Hannah Arendt und Günther Anders".
Caputo" (Interview by George Yancy in George Yancy, On Race: 34 Conversations in a Time of Crisis (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017), 73-80.
The 1827 version of the lectures extracted from the 3-volume edition Lectures on the Proofs of the Existence of God, tr.
(1980), "On the Paradigm of Experience Appropriate for Semiotic", delivered orally at a meeting of the Semiotic Society of America in Lubbock, Texas in 1980 and published in Semiotics 1980, eds.
"Observations on the Discovery of Nitre, in common Salt, which had been frequently mixed with Snow." Transactions of the American Philosophical Society 6 (1809): 129–32.
One: Being an Investigation into the Unity of Reality and of its Parts, including the Singular Object which is Nothingness, Oxford University Press, 2014.
Paperback ISBN 978-1-5036-1484-0 Unpublished Writings from the Period of Dawn (Winter 1879/80–Spring 1881).
ISBN 978-0-241-62994-9 (2024) On Cuba: Reflections on 70 Years of Revolution and Struggle (with Vijay Prashad).
Boulding, "Economics as a Moral Science", 1969 Amartya Sen, On Economic Inequality, 1973 Elizabeth S.
181 (1936) "A "Scientific" Civilisation: The Webbs on Soviet Communism", The Sunday Times (5 January 1936) "Economics and Knowledge", Economica n.s.
Herbert Meiers 'Barke von Gawdos' im Bonner Contrakeller, in «Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung», 18.10.1954, p.
Ward, Roger (2001), Peirce and Politics, Sage Publications, reprint, originally appeared as article in: Philosophy & Social Criticism, v.
1 (March 1968) "A Self-Generating Order for Society", In John Nef (ed.), Towards World Community (1968) "Competition as a Discovery Procedure" (1968) "Economic Thought, VI: The Austrian School.", In International Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences, Edited by David L.
(1993), "Discovering the American Aristotle", First Things: The Journal of Religion, Culture, and Public Life, December 1993.
For list of Peirce entries in A-O, see (under "External links" on this page) #Peirce's definitions in the Baldwin, where there are also links for viewing the dictionary at online mass archives.
2 (September 1939): republished in Individualism and Economic Order (1948) "The Counter-Revolution of Science", Parts I-III, Economica n.s.
Logic Short Commentary [1] Short Commentary on Aristotle's Organon / Epitome in Libros Logicæ Aristotelis, Arabic: تجريد الأقاويل الضرورية من صناعة المنطق, romanized: Tajrīd al-ʾaqāwīl al-ḍarūriyya min ṣināʿat al-manṭiq, lit.
Original titles with dates of publication and translated titles are given when possible, then a list of works translated into English, with earliest-found date of translation.
Bernstein, Richard J., Ed., (1965), Perspectives on Peirce: Critical Essays on Charles Sanders Peirce, Yale University Press, 148 pages (ISBN 0300003080), reprinted, Greenwood Press, Westport, CT, 148 pages, hardcover (ISBN 978-0-313-22414-0, ISBN 0-313-22414-5).
Vertraulicher Bericht Kippenbergers uber den Parteiselbstschutz (PSS) der KPD [Confidential report by Kippenberger on the party self-protection of the KPD].
Off the Sand Road: Ghost Stories, Volume One (Ashcroft, BC: Ash-Tree Press, 2002): ISBN 1-55310-043-3 Hardback, xviii + 206 pp.
Philosophische Anthropologie und Metaphysik des Daseins (Vortrag in der Kantgesellschaft Frankfurt 24.
On the death of Attalus III, which also ended the royal library ambitions, the existence of the Aristotelian library was disclosed, and it was purchased by Apellicon and returned to Athens in about 100 BCE.
71 (Tübingen: Mohr Siebeck: 2016), 191-208 "'Let it Blaze, Let it Blaze:' Pyrotheology and the Theology of the Event," Modern Believing, 57:4 (2016): 335-48.
Toronto: Vintage Canada; and Cambridge: MIT Press (revised ed.), 1998, with a new foreword by Neil Postman.
Martin Heidegger: On The Publication of the Lectures of 1935, in «Graduate Faculty Philosophy Journal», VI, 2, 1977, pp.
Spaier, La Penseé Concrète: Essai sur le symbolisme intellectual." Philosophical Review 38 (1929) 407-410.
1861) Pamphlets An Inquiry into the Natural Rights of Man, as Regards the Exercise of Expatriation; Dedicated to all the Adopted Citizens of the United States; by a Gentleman of the City of New York (New York: Pelsue and Gould, 1813).
Dialogues on Terror, Democracy, War, and Justice (with Gilbert Achcar) ISBN 1-59451-312-0 (2007) Interventions.
Sills (1968) "Wieser, Friedrich von.", In International Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences, Edited by David L.
(1903), A Syllabus of Certain Topics of Logic, Alfred Mudge & Son, Boston, 23-page pamphlet printed for the audience at his 1903 Lowell lecture series.
Criticism of the Gesamtausgabe Theodore Kisiel, "Heidegger's Gesamtausgabe: An International Scandal of Scholarship", Philosophy Today 39 (1995), pp.
Reprinted (CLL 238-266), (CP 6.238-271), (EP 1:334-351), (PSWS 212-230), (LI 102-116), (W 8:165-183), (in part, and with long introductory note by editor, PMSW 141-153).
OCLC 648146235 References External links Hayek material at the Ludwig von Mises Institute Hayek: A Bibliography of his Writings from the Online Library of Liberty (Liberty Fund) Bibliographie von Hans Jörg Hennecke The Collected Works of F.
(2004), "The Development of Peirce's Theory of Signs" in The Cambridge Companion to Peirce, Cheryl Misak, ed., Cambridge U.
(1941), Charles Sanders Peirce as a pioneer (Scripta Mathematica pamphlets), published 1941 by Yeshiva college.
The canon of work by Ibn Hazm, prolific and important Andalusian jurist, belletrist, and heresiographer is extensive.
"Dark Hearts: Heidegger, Richardson, and Evil," in From Phenomenology to Thought, Errancy, and Desire, ed.
Zur Logik der Sozialwissenschaften, in Philosophische Rundschau 14, No.5 (February), Tübingen, Mohr, 1967, LSW.
Translator Publication — The name of the work as published; ISBNs and links to PDFs when available; other publication information.
(collects the Common Courage books, "Keeping the Rabble in Line" and "Class Warfare") (1997) Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship.
The following is a list of the works by Alfred Schmidt, a 20th-century German philosopher, sociologist and critical theorist associated closely with the Frankfurt School.
Müller-Skjold (Anfang Mai 1966) Die Herkunft der Kunst und die Bestimmung des Denkens (Vortrag in der Akademie der Wissenschaften und Künste in Athen 4.
1994: Comme un malentendu de salut ..., Paris: Editions du Seuil, ISBN 2-02-021232-3 Theatre 1943: ......Et les chiens se taisaient.
ISBN 978-0-85527-535-8 (1979) The Political Economy of Human Rights, Volume I: The Washington Connection and Third World Fascism (with Edward S.
Das Frauenproblem der Gegenwart: eine psychologische Bilanz [Contemporary Women's Issues: A psychological balance sheet] (in German).
Brittain Smith, Stanford University Press, 2011, ISBN 0-8047-8005-6 The Gay Science, 1882, 1887 trans.
"Review of The Problem of Truth: University of California Lectures Delivered before the Philosophical Union, 1927-28." Journal of Philosophy 26 (1929): 356-360.
Walter Kaufmann, Vintage, 1967, ISBN 0-394-70369-3 in: 'The Birth of Tragedy & the Genealogy of Morals', trans.
Wie ich einmal ohne Dich leben soll, mag ich mir nicht vorstellen: Briefwechsel mit den Freundinnen Charlotte Beradt, Rose Feitelson, Hilde Fränkel, Anne Weil-Mendelsohn und Helen Wolff (I do not like to imagine how I should live without you: correspondence with my friends) (in German).
Petry 1970 Available online: German text, Taubeneck translation of 1817 edition Encyclopaedia Philosophy of Spirit (Heidelberg, 1817, rev.
Skinner, Walden Two, 1948 Paulo Freire, Pedagogy of the Oppressed, 1968 Philosophy of history Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West, 1918 & 1922 R.
Psychedelic literature has also been defined as textual works that arose from the proliferation of psychiatric and psychotherapeutic research with hallucinogens during the 1950s and early 1960s in North America and Europe.
"Experiments and Observations relating to the Principle of Acidity, the Composition of Water, and Phlogiston." Philosophical Transactions 78 (1788): 147–57.
Leitgedanken zur Entstehung der Metaphysik, der neuzeitlichen Wissenschaft und der modernen Technik, ed.
Its earliest published translation into any language (French) did not occur until 1650; in English — although earlier partial or unpublished translations exist — the first complete translation to be published was that of Thomas Creech, in heroic couplets, in 1682.
"Returning Jewish Cultural Property: The Handling of Books Looted by the Nazis in the American Zone of Occupation, 1945 to 1952".
Mark Manolopoulos (Bern, Berlin, Bruxelles, Frankfurt am Main, New York, Oxford, Vienna: Peter Lang Pub Inc., 2009), pp.
The works of American philosopher Josiah Royce (November 20, 1855 – September 14, 1916) include magazine articles, book reviews, other occasional writings, and several books.
Trois femmes dans de sombres temps [Three Women in Dark Times: Edith Stein, Hannah Arendt, Simone Weil, or Amor fati, amor mundi].
Joseph Smith Translation of Bible The reference to "Master Mahan" is found in a revision by Joseph Smith of Genesis 5 of the Bible, now published in the Inspired Version of the Bible (I.V.), Genesis 5, and in Chapter 5 the Pearl of Great Price (PGP), Book of Moses.
Styled as a Korean fan as presented to Hideyoshi, it was made from 515 natural and 290 cultured pearls.
In Latter-day Saint theology, Egyptus () is the name of two women in the Book of Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price.
Mikimoto and his wife have five children: Rui (eldest daughter), Mine (second daughter), Yo (third daughter), Ai (youngest daughter), and Ryuzo (son).
Brooke notes that there are several other contemporary sources besides Dick that could have been the source of inspiration for the Book of Abraham.
Despite this major discovery there were initially difficulties in selling his cultured pearls due to public confusion.
Egyptologists, beginning in the late 19th century, have disagreed with Joseph Smith's explanations of the facsimiles.
Origin The Giga Pearl is owned by Abraham Reyes, a natural pearl and antiquities collector in Canada, whose great-aunt collected Asian artifacts in the Philippines.
Curiously, the Chinese use keshi to differentiate between two distinct products, while Japanese usage, requiring only the absence of a nucleus, is equally applicable to both.
Notebooks of copied Egyptian characters When Michael Chandler arrived in Kirtland in 1835 with the Egyptian Papyri, he allowed Oliver Cowdery to copy "four or five different sentences" from the papyri.
These differ considerably from the plump, full shapes of first-harvest freshwater pearls, which grow during a young mussel's growth period, when nacre production is at its peak.
It measures 258.12 grains (64.5 carats, 69.8 carats with its diamond cap) making it the third-largest (documented) well-formed natural pearl drop.
Background The pearl industry in Hyderabad flourished due to the patronage of the Qutub Shahi kings and the Asaf Jahis, who were said to have an affinity for sparkling jewels.
While the material can be of anything that does not negatively affect the health of a pearl oyster, the modern age pearl cultivators normally use freshwater bivalves that either come from the US Mississippi River or China's freshwater bodies located in Hunan and Jiangxi provinces.
King of the Coral Sea is a 1954 Australian film directed by Lee Robinson and starring Chips Rafferty and Charles Tingwell.
Ama practiced a breathing technique in which the divers would release air in a long whistle once they resurfaced from a dive.
(1993), "'The Tongue of Angels': Glossolalia among Mormonism's Founders", Journal of Mormon History, 19 (2): 1–34.
Critical Reviews were positive, the critic from The Sydney Morning Herald calling it "Australia's finest picture to date." The Bulletin called it "a jolly good entertainer...a great advance even on Tall Timbers.
Pearl shells were also traded within Australia, with shell from the Kimberley region being found over 1,600 kilometres (1,000 mi) from their place of manufacture.
It was the last Australian film sold to Britain as a British quota picture before the British quota laws were amended.
Typically, Nakhudas financed their voyages, although some were financed by merchants and obligated to yield their catch in return for a share in proceeds.
The settlers who had landed with him blamed Broadhurst for the failure, and criticised him for refusing to share out the stock until the company's affairs were settled.
Book summary The book tells the story of a 12-year-old boy from an imaginary island in the Torres Strait and of a volcanic disaster that drives the local fishing and pearl-diving population to migrate to a neighbouring island.
Japanese companies were involved in all projects using technicians from the original Mitsubishi South Sea pre-war projects.
The Pearl of Kuwait is a pearl that was bought in 2004 by its current owners, Bond Street, London jewellers Symbolic & Chase, and named the Pearl of Kuwait in recognition of the Persian Gulf waters in which many pearls have been found.
Three decades later, Cobb embellished the provenance with a new account in the February 1969 Mensa Bulletin, promoting the pearl as an artifact of Chinese legend.
The publicity surrounding their successes resulted in a virtual gold rush and the beds were soon depleted.
The author of the Hymn is unknown, though there is a belief that it was composed by the Syriac gnostic Bardaisan from Edessa due to some parallels between his life and that of the hymn.
He later went into partnership with George Streeter, and their firm, Streeter and Male, had diverse commercial interests in the Kimberley, including in the pearling, fishing, and cattle trades.
Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol.2, Ch.47, p.131) And finally, the Wentworth letter re-establishes Joseph Smith's teachings that the Lamanites are the principal ancestors of the American Indians.
The necklace has been passed down through the Earls Spencer over the centuries and was first photographed on Charlotte, Countess Spencer in the late 1800s.
Black pearls that have a green sheen and baroque (irregular shaped) pearls that reflect a rainbow of colors are also amongst the more valuable varieties.
It has been suggested that the German idea of der Weise ('the orphan'), a precious stone in the crown of the Holy Roman Emperor, was inspired by Arabic traditions of al-Yatīma.
"Pearl Crown I", a crown styled after the state crown of Queen Mary used at the coronation of King George V in 1911.
His brother moved back to Japan to operate the exporting side of the business from there, until his death in 1925.
The bracelet was later put aside and was not worn again until she chose it for a gala dinner on her 36th birthday.
Depictions There have been several depictions of the New Testament parable in art, including works by Domenico Fetti, John Everett Millais and Jan Luyken.
Not much is known about the bracelet other than it was worn again by the Duchess of Sussex while at Prince Charles' 70th birthday.
The doctor's behavioral changes foreshadow the more serious troubles that begin after Kino's discovery of the pearl.
The word "pharaoh" is also considered to be an anachronism in the Book of Abraham for similar reasons.
Commentary from the Church Fathers John Chrysostom: "The Gospel preaching not only offers manifold gain as a treasure, but is precious as a pearl; wherefore after the parable concerning the treasure, He gives that concerning the pearl.
As they travel, Kino spots three men following them and realizes that they are trackers intending to take the pearl and kill the entire family.
In nacre-like composites, the mineral bridges have also been shown to increase the flexural strength of the material because they can transfer stress in the material.
Suíhóuzhū (隨侯珠, "the Marquis of Sui's pearl") has a literary synonym Suíhóuzhīzhū (隨侯之珠) with the Classical Chinese grammatical possessive affix zhī (之).
Burton sought a portrait of Mary I of England wearing the pearl, in the mistaken belief that the pearl had once belonged to her, even though La Peregrina was first recorded in 1579, 21 years after Mary's death.
It has been called "one of the best-looking Australian movies of its era." Filming of the main unit began 7 June 1936.
That April, the Mystery ran aground in a natural harbour as Hedland searched for a suitable location for a port suitable for the pastoral industry.
Context A pearl is a hard, glistening object produced within the soft tissue (specifically the mantle) of a living shelled mollusk or another animal, such as a conulariid.
A severe downturn in the industry saw reports that the Malays employed by Broadhurst and Cadell were unpaid, unable to return home and some had starved to death.
How it came into Muslim hands is not clear: it might have come from Visigothic Spain or the Sasanian Empire during the Islamic Conquests.
Wars had supposedly been fought over the artifact, and it had been sent off to the Philippines as a protective measure, where it was lost in a storm.
Augustine: Let us see now what is the holy thing, what are the dogs, what the pearls, what the swine?
Mikimoto Pearl Island (ミキモト真珠島, Mikimoto-Shinju-Jima) is a small island in Ise Bay, offshore Toba, Mie Prefecture, Japan.
The style is very flippant, but it agrees well enough with the breezy love-story." In December 1936 Stuart Doyle of Cinesound announced he had bought the film rights.
He had been involved in two controversies the previous year, the first was over his shareholdings in mining companies.
This is justified to some extent by the fact that ocean pearl keshi were known as a product for some years before their freshwater counterparts.
The loss of the Xantho after only a few voyages caused Broadhurst substantial financial difficulties.
A true black Tahitian pearl is extremely rare, and largely considered one of the most beautiful kinds of pearls in the world.
The pearl industry was partially revived in the late sixteenth century when Spaniards replaced indigenous labor with African slave labor.
Nolland comments that it shares with that parable the notions of "good fortune and demanding action in attaining the kingdom of heaven" but adds in this case the notion of "diligent seeking".
During the following years Felix sold some of his jewels, but he could not bring himself to sell La Pelegrina, one of his favorite treasures, until 1953, when he sold it to a Geneva-based jeweler.
In Western mythology and folklore, there is a theme of injured animals presenting magical gems out of gratitude to people who helped them.
For they are your brethren by nature but not by faith, and God gives the good things of this life equally to the worthy and the unworthy, but not so spiritual graces.
He left the party after Ben Chifley announced his intention to nationalise the banking sector, and subsequently joined the Liberal Party.
References External links The Hound of the Deep in the Internet Movie Database Pearl of the South Sea at National Film and Sound Archive Clip of cast members of the film being driven around Thursday Island at Australian Screen Online
Smith has argued at some length that Joseph Smith was the primary author of the Alphabet and Grammar documents, and that those documents served as the source or modus operandi for the translation of at least the first three verses of the Book of Abraham.
One daughter, Katherine Elime Broadhurst, followed her mother's interests (as evidenced by entries in Eliza's scrapbook since donated to the Western Australian Museum) in the 19th century feminist movement.
The Ennerdale black pearl is a rare black pearl formed in freshwater pearl mussels found on stretches of the Ehen and Irt rivers in the English county of Cumbria.
Inserted with the bead is a piece of mantle tissue from a donor mollusk, which influences the color of the pearl being produced and provides epithelial cells to ensure that the oyster produces nacre around the nucleus.
He ran for re-election as an "independent Nationalist" ten years later, at the 1927 election, but was defeated by the sitting member, Aubrey Coverley.
However, when the Dreamer attempts to cross the stream, he awakens suddenly from his dream and reflects on its significance.
Plot Dan Merrill awakens on his boat after a night of drinking to find his former love, Rita Delaine, there with his partner, Bully Hague.
The entire collection was presumed lost, but some segments of the scroll were rediscovered at the New York Metropolitan Museum in 1966.
Akoya pearl cultivation, which began in the 1920s in Japan, provided numerous small, most often greyish pearls as a by-product.
The pearl is currently being displayed in an octopus sculpture gilded in 22k gold by the artist Bethany Krull.
Plot Under the terms of his uncle's will, John Strong must go to Thursday Island and find a pearl within two years or the Reuben Strong pearling station and his great wealth will revert to another, Black Darley.
The flames in which Ronal Jackson expired at the end of the opera were a further innovation; such an impressively elaborate production obviously cried out for colour television." The production sold widely overseas.
A contemporary comparison would be that 900 sesterces was the average yearly salary for an infantryman in one of Caesar's legions, or that it could pay for a year's rent for 3000 Roman tenants.
It is an adventure melodrama about a pianist (Lloyd Hughes) who goes to Thursday Island to retrieve a valuable pearl.
Larson, believe that the fragments Joseph Smith Papyri II, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII are the source of this work.
It became a leading force in making Western Australian the second state in Australia to grant women the vote.
He was inducted into the House of Peers by imperial decree and posthumously awarded the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Sacred Treasure.
Origins All of the following can cause a keshi pearl to grow: An attack on a pearl-producing mollusc by a predator that bores through its shell, similar to a way in which wild natural pearls are formed, except that captive molluscs are more susceptible.
Scott had moved his family to Perth soon after entering the senate, and lived there in retirement (while still owning property in the country).
The pearl-moon relationship is expressed in the ancient belief that at full moon pearls are solid balls and at new moon they are hollow.
Mikimoto's personal memorabilia are displayed at Mikimoto Pearl Island Memorial Hall, a museum in Toba, Japan.
Having the same material as natural pearls, cultured pearls can be cultivated in seawater or freshwater bodies.
"Nanoscale morphology and indentation of individual nacre tablets from the gastropod mollusc Trochus niloticus" (PDF).
In 1865, King Victor Emmanuel II of Italy bought the pearl, but around 1868 he sold it to Willem van Kooten, a Dutch goldsmith from Amsterdam.
Some scholars believe the hymn predates the Acts, as it only appears in one Syriac manuscript and one Greek manuscript of the Acts of Thomas.
Classical Greco-Roman sources such as the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea and the geographical works of Ptolemy refer to this region as an active hub of maritime commerce, frequented by merchants from Greece, Rome, Egypt, and other parts of Asia.
Initially, the Kuri Bay project was controlled by the Kuribayashi family, and the Port Essington project was controlled by Paspaley Pearling Company.
The cultured Tahitian pearl farms are located in the blue lagoons of the Tuamotu-Gambier Archipelagos, which are two of the five archipelagos which make up French Polynesia (Tahiti is the largest island in French Polynesia and the Tahitians make up the main ethnic group in the territory).
2013 edition (2013 • Standard Works, Scriptures Committee) Minor changes to introductions were made in the 2013 edition.
See also Pearls before swine (disambiguation) 'Gold coins for cats', a similar idiom in Japanese culture == References ==
Its owners include the Spanish monarchs, the history of the pearl spans almost 500 years and recently belonged to actress Elizabeth Taylor.
Pearl of Great Price Student Manual: Religion 327 (Salt Lake City, Utah: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints) "Joseph Smith–Matthew".
Kenogaia: a Gnostic tale (Book) by David Bentley Hart References Further reading Barnstone, Willis; Meyer, Marvin (2005).
Hyderabad is considered the main pearl trading centre in India, because of which the city is also known as the "City of Pearls".
Brown, a Mormon apologist, has stated that he believes that "Mahan" means "destroyer" because "the Hebrew word maha means 'destroy,' and the addition of an n would make the word a noun.
They are two crown jewels of extreme beauty—they call the diamond the Mirror of Portugal, and the pearl the Pelegrina La Pelegrina traveled to France with its new owner.
The divers would receive a slight break to eat and rest and continue this work until sundown, where they all presented their catch to the foreman, return to the ranchería to have some dinner, and then open the oyster shells.
The ama were expected to endure harsh conditions while diving, such as freezing temperatures and great pressures from the depths of the sea.
Consistent with this concept, some ancient sources assert that the heavenly hosts—variously described as including the angels, the sons of God, and/or the souls of humanity—were part of the light that appeared on day one of creation.
The most commonly suggested candidate for authorship is John Massey of Cotton, Cheshire, though he has been dated by some scholars to a time outside the Gawain poet's era.
It may have had its origin from the Apocalypse of Abraham where similar references are made to the power of God and the Egyptian concept of the hypocephalus representing all that is encircled by the sun.
One should not judge severely, but there is a point at which any reasonable person will realize that those they are dealing with are dogs and swine.
History Pre-colonial history Northern coastal dwelling Aboriginal people are known to have collected and traded pearl shell with fisherman from Sulawesi for at least 500 years.
After finishing school, Scott returned to Bridgetown to help run the family farm, and eventually took it over completely.
The Hymn of the Pearl (also Hymn of the Soul, Hymn of the Robe of Glory or Hymn of Judas Thomas the Apostle) is a passage of the apocryphal Acts of Thomas.
Some scholars have reported that because of the climate in Cubagua, the heat would cause the oysters to open themselves, making the pearl extraction process a bit simpler.
Shells were the main aim for collection, and the whole industry was essentially a colonial one geared to procuring mother-of-pearl for sale to overseas markets for the making of buttons.
Disease Causation Theory (Guillaume Rondeletius, 1507 - 1566), Egg Causation Theory (Chauveton, 1578), Sand Grain Causation Theory (Sir R.
By the 1530s, the Paravas entered into an alliance with the Portuguese, leading to mass conversion to Christianity in 1536.
Hall thought this helped make Greater Union's then-managing director Norman Rydge disillusioned with feature production.
Doyle resigned from Cinesound during production but was kept on to supervise the finishing of the movie.
Control under South Indian kingdoms Pandya rule: During the Sangam period, the Pandya dynasty exercised authority over the pearl fisheries after subduing the Paravas.
Nicholas's wife Vivienne Lavinia Paspaley (1913–2003) worked with her husband to build the Paspaley Pearling Company and was also a significant figure in the social development of Darwin.
Left alone, the pair reminisce about their past in the city of Kandy, where their friendship was nearly destroyed by their mutual love of a young priestess whose beauty they had glimpsed briefly.
The pearl is owned in three equal shares by the heirs of Joe Bonicelli, Peter Hoffman and Victor Barbish.
One year later the serpent brought a bright pearl [明珠] in its mouth to give the ruler of Sui to show its gratitude.
Philippines In the Philippines, from pre-colonial times, selected youths called binukot are special type of princes and princesses that were kept in seclusion and hidden from the sun in order to have fair and white skin.
External links Hymn of the Pearl Audio with commentary Audio of the Hymn of the Pearl translated and read by Willis Barnstone Chiastic outline of Hymn of the Robe of Glory
The text states that this power has been sought out by ancient prophets since the creation of the Earth using the Urim and Thummim.
A 650 Mikimoto Akoya pearls crown of the Miss International Crown, designed by Tomohiro Yamaji Miss Universe Mikimoto Crown A gunbai war fan that was exhibited at Encouragement of Industry Exposition Tokyo at 1907 and at the Japan–British Exhibition in London in 1910.
In a 2019 episode during the fall final season of Fox network's "Empire", actor Terrence Howard's character, Lucious Lyon, says "Let's not cast pearl before swine" when meeting his rival character Damon Cross, played by Wood Harris.
The apparition then rejoicingly informs the man that she now stands at the side of Christ as one of the 144 thousand brides of the lamb, residing in New Jerusalem as a Queen.
The pearl was found by a Filipino diver in the Palawan sea, which surrounds the island of Palawan in the Philippines.
The Metropolitan New York presented a new production of the work in 2016, the first time the opera had been performed there for nearly a hundred years.
Types Bathed pearl (also called Angel, Sheba, Mikomo, Kobe, Nikko, Sumo, Fijii, Aloha, or "improved cultured pearl") is a mother-of-pearl core coated with a mixture of plastic enamel, lead carbonate, mica, and titanium dioxide, then with a film of iridescent nylon.
In 1850, when he was 15, Moore started employment in the surveyor-general's office, remaining for four years there before moving to the North-West to work on a Hamersley & Co.
Synopsis A body is found floating in the Torres Strait and pearler Ted King is asked to investigate.
History The only clues as to the pearl's provenance come from Wilburn Dowell Cobb, a visiting US archaeologist from San Francisco, who brought the pearl from the Philippines in 1939 and owned it until his death in 1979.
Shell pearl Cut, buffed, and sometimes dyed nacreous portions of mollusk shells: Variations and alternate names include cat's-eye pearl, coque de perle (from nautilus shells), mother-of-pearl pearl (from mother-of-pearl), and hinge pearl (from the hinge of bivalve shells).
Smith stated that the image is meant to represent a heavenly body located nearest to the central Kolob, the planet or star closest to the throne of God.
The oil slicks, especially those of 1991, adversely affected the fishing industry, but as of early 1993, marine biologists remained uncertain about the long-term ecological impact of the pollution.
There are only a handful of pearls ever found in the history of the Earth that would be so large and perfect in form and lustre.
Among his duties was the censorship of imported literature and film, where he gained a reputation for puritanism.
As this system continued to grow, more and more oyster beds were discovered along the Latin American coast, including near Riohacha on Colombia's Guajira Peninsula.
Atmospheric shots are pips and put the film into the top class." Filmink, while knowledging the movie "has the racial sensitivities of the time" called it one of Hall's "best films, full of life, good nature, and positivity.
The ruler believed the creature to be a spirit manifestation and ordered his physician to treat it with drugs to close up its wound.
Latendresse also developed the technique for producing shaped pearls, which he called "fancishapes", which today are used by the American Pearl Company to produce shapes including coin, bar, navette, marquise, teardrop, cabochon and triangle.
Halfway down the Lilly stand, above two plant shaped wine jars are two human-headed birth bricks called Meskhenet and Shai, gods of destiny that represent the fate of Nefer-ir-nebu.
In that year, he retired in favour of his son, Florance Broadhurst, who with his mercantile education proved enormously successful.
The Gemological Institute of America (GIA) and CIBJO now simply use the term "pearl" (or, where appropriate, the more descriptive term "non-nacreous pearl") when referring to such items, rather than the term "calcareous concretion" and, under U.S.
Many non-LDS Egyptologists, beginning in the mid-19th century, have criticized Joseph Smith's translation and explanations of the facsimiles, unanimously concluding that his interpretations are inaccurate.
504, 505), others were sold to Heinrich Menu von Minutoli, Giovanni Anastasi, Frédéric Cailliaud and Henry Salt; Salt placed the objects he bought in the British Museum (no.
First, it connects the message of what Mormons believe to be the Restoration with the history of said Restoration: "By these things we know..." (Doctrine and Covenants 20:1-17) Second, it emphasizes the First Vision as an essential part of Latter-day Saint message.
In the Persian Gulf, the pearling industry was dominated by slave labor, and male slaves were used as pearl divers until the final abolition of slavery in the Gulf states in the period of 1937–1971.
Other pearls like the Centaur Pearl, most likely the largest gem pearl at 856.58 carats (171.316 g), have just recently emerged from private collections.
Although the prospect of steady wages attracted many pearl divers to oil-related jobs, pearling was even more adversely affected by the development in Japan of the cultured pearl.
The pearl was given to her by Reyes's grandfather, who visited her in Manila and brought a giant clam as a gift or pasalubong, a custom in Filipino culture.
He preferred to "depend on our testimonies of the gospel." Jerald and Sandra Tanner, critics of the Church, obtained an unauthorized copy of a microfilm strip containing images of the documents in 1966, and published them as Joseph Smith's Egyptian Alphabet & Grammar.
These pearls are produced in Japan and the United States on a limited scale, but are now almost exclusively produced in China.
http://shell.kwansei.ac.jp/~shell/pic_book/data37/r003666.html Archived 2009-06-07 at the Wayback Machine
Lebolo died some years after these events, possibly on February 19, 1830 in Castellamonte or at an unknown date in Trieste.
A collar, measuring 10–13 in (25–33 cm) in length, sits directly against the throat and does not hang down the neck at all; collars are often made up of multiple strands of pearls.
Robert Frederick Sholl (27 August 1848 – 4 December 1909) was an entrepreneur and a member of the Parliament of Western Australia.
It was originally published in 1831 in Kirtland, Ohio, in an undated broadsheet as "Extract from the New Translation of the Bible".
The pearl dealers, like the doctor, symbolize the exploitation of the native population, this time by the organized pearl-dealing cartel for which the dealers work.
During the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, the Australia pearl farms operated with virtually the same pre-WWII Iwasaki/Mitsubishi technology.
A chorus of pearl fishermen sing of the dangerous tasks that lie ahead ("Sur la grève en feu"), and perform ritual dances to drive away evil spirits.
Mikimoto was the official jeweler of the Miss USA (2003–2008), Miss Universe (2002–2007 and 2017–2019) and Miss Teen USA (2002–2008) pageants, under the Miss Universe Organization.
Analysis Caesar's motives for giving the pearl to Servilia have been the subject of debate among historians.
Fending off the lecherous sailors, she dives for pearls in the surrounding waters and eventually amasses a fortune which she uses to free her lover from prison.
On the island, high priest Michael, a white man, has a son, George, who is about to marry Momu, the daughter of Halemano, the native chief.
In the early 1950s Nicholas negotiated a joint venture project with the Kuribayashi family of Japan – employing the Iwasaki/Mitsubishi experts who had pioneered the project before the war.
Though curved blades are not (strictly speaking) burning mirrors, they can catch fire because of the rubbing to which they have been subjected.
The Smithsonian does say that it is exceptional, that it weighs 64.4 carats, that its setting is 19th century in style, and that the pearl itself recalls those that originate from the Persian Gulf.
Like other members of the genus Pinctada, they share the physiological properties that can lead to the production of large pearls of commercial value, and therefore attempts have been made to harvest pearls commercially from many different Pinctada species.
She was one of five filmmakers awarded a grant of £20,000 to make the film, as part of the Female Film Force, an initiative created to actively address the gender imbalance within the film industry.
When the documents' existence was finally revealed, Clark stated that he did not believe the Alphabet and Grammar should be submitted to scholars.
This interpretation would give the parable a similar theme to that of the Parable of the Lost Sheep, the Lost Coin, and the Prodigal Son.
See also Music of Bahrain Music of Kuwait Culture of Eastern Arabia Sawt (music) Liwa (music) Pearl diving Further reading Various artists (2000).
In December 1890 Moore was appointed a nominee member of the Legislative Council but subsequently resigned in February 1892.
Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.” It now reads: “We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: 1st.
By rearranging its components, it is possible to make 12 accessories such as brooches, hair ornaments, and rings.
One other interpretation reads this verse in light of the ones immediately preceding it (7:1–5) where instruction is given to not judge a brother and to remove the log from one's own eye before removing the speck from the eye of another.
Cast Virginia Mayo as Rita Delaine Dennis Morgan as Dan Merrill David Farrar as Bully Hague Murvyn Vye as Halemano Lance Fuller as George Basil Ruysdael as Tuan Michael Lisa Montell as Momu References External links Pearl of the South Pacific at IMDb
The pearl weighs in at 27.65 kg (60 lb 15 oz) and measures 39.37 cm × 22.86 cm × 20.95 cm (15.50 in × 9.00 in × 8.25 in), which is more than four times the mass of the Pearl of Lao Tzu (formerly the Pearl of Allah) which weighs 6.4 kg.
Dean suggests that Bizet's ability to find the appropriate musical phrase with style and economy is better demonstrated in his treatment of Leila's oath of chastity, where a simple phrase is repeated twice in minor third steps.
His role in the development of Roebourne In June 1866, Broadhurst was a member of an exploring party under Trevarton Sholl, son of the Government Resident Robert Sholl, which searched for good pasture and a good harbour in Exmouth Gulf.
Religious references Hindu scriptures The Hindu tradition describes the sacred Nine Pearls, which were first documented in the Garuda Purana, one of the books of the Hindu scriptures.
It is claimed to minimize pain from sores and ulcers, and to help reduce the sores and ulcers themselves.
In Rubicon: The Last Years of the Roman Republic by Tom Holland, Caesar compares buying the outrageously expensive pearl for Servilia to his decision to pay for 3000 Romans rents, both being moves to seduce his fellow citizens, he expresses that he thinks nothing of it.
On 11 July 1893, after many failures and near bankruptcy, he was able to create the hemispherical cultured pearls.
Mikimoto took advantage of every opportunity to personally promote his pearls, and took part in the 1926 Philadelphia World Exposition in which he displayed a replica of the "Liberty Bell" covered with pearls.
All are thought to be by the same author, dubbed the "Pearl Poet" or "Gawain Poet", on the evidence of stylistic and thematic similarities.
The princess was photographed falling asleep here and subsequent photographs were dubbed "The Sleeping Beauty".
Some contemporary accounts and some of Hedland's descendants have spelt the surname Headland, although it is not clear that he ever used this spelling.
Unlike saltwater bead nucleation, this process is not considered difficult, and technicians need only minimum training to perform the operation.
Ama (海女, "sea women") are Japanese divers famous for collecting pearls, though traditionally their main catch is seafood.
However, the reversal in social status enables the divinely proclaimed Queen to ethically educate the dreamer during her assault on his morality, yet it seems to little avail.
Sholl left Perth at the age of 14 to join his parents in Roebourne, a newly founded settlement in what is now referred to as the Pilbara region.
Taylor continues: I just casually opened the puppy's mouth and inside his mouth was the most perfect pearl in the world.
In contrast to the affluent traders of the upper Gulf—such as those in Bahrain and Kuwait—merchants in the lower Gulf frequently experienced cycles of indebtedness due to the unpredictable fluctuations in the pearl market.
Since the 1970s, efforts have been made to reconstruct the score in accordance with Bizet's intentions.
Stratton Productions claimed The Big Wave and Danielewski's succeeding film No Exit (1962) received "international acclaim", providing a single review of the former and five reviews of the latter as proof.
Current and historic industry Pearls gathered in the wild from the Holarctic saltwater pearl mussel were important sources of pearls for modern jewelry, with Scotland a major source; this species is now endangered in most areas.
It is possible that La Pelegrina was stolen together with the Sancy Diamond and French Blue Diamond, and was thereafter sold to the Russian nobles of the House of Yusupov.
DNA repair RECQL4 has a crucial role in DNA end resection that is the initial step required for homologous recombination (HR)-dependent double-strand break repair.
Pregnant and lactating mothers Ensuring proper nutrition of pregnant and lactating mothers is essential.
Henry Alexander Cooper (12 June 1853 – 16 August 1899) born in Norton-on-Derwent, East Riding of Yorkshire, England, was a 19th-century celebrity billed by P.
While Raiden's activity was centered in the Ryōgoku area, Yodotaki performed in nearby Asakusa, located within walking distance of Ryōgoku.
Bloom-like phenotypes have been associated with mutations in topoisomerase III alpha, RMI1 and RMI2 genes.
Joelison Fernandes da Silva (born 15 August 1985) is a Brazilian Sitting volleyball player and he has been recognized as the tallest man in Brazil, measuring 2.37 meters tall and weighing 169 kilograms.
On December 27, 2022, Silva announced his retirement from MMA competition, intending to continue his involvement in the sport as a grappling and BJJ coach.
Personal life Mureșan and his wife Liliana and sons George (born 1998) and Victor (born 2000) have resided in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, but they relocated to the suburbs of Washington, D.C.
He suffered from gigantism, with an enlarged pituitary gland, testicular atrophy and lack of sexual development, and had trouble walking.
As the JWA continued to struggle going into the 1970s, Baba and Inoki agreed to go their own separate ways.
In the 2016 Summer Paralympics sitting volleyball final, he was the match top scorer with 28 points for Iran.
At the time he was determined to be about 8 ft 2.5 in (250 cm), although he had a dislocated knee and was still growing.
John Francis Carroll (1932 – August 8, 1969) was an American giant and one of 29 known people in medical history to have verifiably reached a height of 8 feet (240 cm) or more.
Some symptoms of achondroplasia are short stature, a long and narrow trunk, shortening of the proximal segments of limbs, large head, mid-face hypoplasia, and joint hyperextension, among others.
Others disagreed, with one stating that the performances themselves perpetuated an outdated and demeaning image.
He was 7 ft 9.3 in (2.37 m) tall, had an arm span of 8 ft 4.5 in (2.55 m) and weighed 170 kilograms (370 lb).
Pathophysiology Pre-replication complex is an important protein complex, which consist of 6 subunits of Origin Recognition Complex (ORC1, ORC2, ORC3, ORC4, ORC5 and ORC6 genes), CDC6, CDT1, and MCM2-7 (MCM2, MCM3, MCM4, MCM5, MCM6, MCM7).
The name was later changed to Midgets and Dwarfs of America when the people with dwarfism complained that there were more dwarfs than midgets.
He grew up as an only child in the Monongahela Valley with an affinity for sports and entertainment.
This explains why mutations in the NBS1 gene lead to higher levels of cancer (see Fanconi anemia, Cockayne syndrome.) The name derives from the Dutch city Nijmegen, where the condition was first described.
To accommodate her great height, Zeng's family were contracted with local tailors and factories to manufacture several of her items custom-made, including her shirts, pants, shoes, chairs and bed, which measured 274 cm (9 ft) in length.
Involvement in other sports In 2011, Valuev became the general manager of the Russia national bandy team, and is tasked with developing the sport in the country.
Tatton-Brown–Rahman syndrome (TBRS) is a rare overgrowth and intellectual disability syndrome caused by autosomal dominant mutations in the DNMT3A gene.
He then followed with his next songs Carousel, Bitch Let Me Go Off, and Paranoia References External links Peet Montzingo at IMDb Peet Montzingo @ YouTube
Examples of this are the Channel Island fox, extinct dwarf elephants of Crete, and Brookesia micra, a minuscule chameleon from Madagascar.
His mother stated he had a very good memory, was gregarious, had a temper, and at times was stubborn.
Later he took up residence in Amsterdam, where he lived from 1735 to 1741 as the guest of the landlord of the Blauw Jan, an inn where natural curiosities could be seen and traded.
Filmography References External links Matthew McGrory at Find a Grave Matthew McGrory at IMDb Matthew McGrory at Allmovie MatthewMcGrory.com
Almost as many people were known in that one group as had been reported in all medical literature up to then.
He received treatment upon diagnosis, but because radiation therapy requires time to take effect, he grew another inch in the following year(s), reaching 7 ft 6+1⁄4 in (229.2 cm).
The above picture illustrates the comparative size of two full-sib roosters born the same day: Left: Normal sibling of genotype Dw/dw.
See also List of tallest people References External links "Gabriel Monjane - 8 feet 0.75 inches (245.7 cm)".
The Guinness Book of World Records stated that he was refused induction into the Army when he stood at a height of 7 feet 9 inches (236 cm).
At 7 ft 8 in (2.34 m), he is the tallest player to be drafted in National Basketball Association (NBA) history.
Career McGrory's large size led to appearances on daytime talk shows hosted by Maury Povich, Jenny Jones and Oprah Winfrey and in music videos including Iron Maiden's "The Wicker Man" and the 1999 Marilyn Manson "Coma White" (and God Is in the T.V.
Cornelia de Lange's patients were two girls with unusual facies and intellectual disability—one 17 months and the other 6 months—who were admitted within weeks of each other to Emma Children's Hospital.
He returned in 1898 to the Lycée de Saint-Brieuc, at which he worked for the remainder of his teaching career.
Many children with isolated growth hormone deficiency are known as having idiopathic growth hormone deficiency or idiopathic isolated growth hormone deficiency since in most cases, there is no known etiology for the condition.
Causes Local gigantism may be caused by a heterogeneous group of both congenital and acquired conditions.
Signs and symptoms Most people with RAPADILINO syndrome have underdeveloped or absent bones in the forearms and thumbs.
According to undertaker's records published in General Practitioner, her coffin was 2.50 metres (8 ft 2 in) long and was probably the longest ever used for a UK funeral.
Medical doctors (who also saw her after years) properly diagnosed the illness but decided not to cure her, because her family did not have the 4000 yuan for the surgery.
Jacob Rheuben Erlich (July 3, 1906 – July 18, 1952), professionally credited as Jack Earle, was an American silent film actor and sideshow performer.
Meanwhile, Rousimoff returned to Germany in December 1987 for another match with Wanz, which he lost by countout.
The report covers people from all over the UK and whilst many participants have achondroplasia, there were also participants with many other conditions such as pseudoachondroplasa, diastrophic dysplasia, spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and hypochondroplasia.
It didn't matter to Fernandez whether he was hitting the open man through a crowd of defenders or hitting the same open man via a Hail Mary pass from outside the backcourt.
Many European paintings (especially Spanish) of the 16th–19th centuries depict dwarfs by themselves or with others.
The success and cultural impact of Star Wars led to further sequels rounding out the original trilogy, two more trilogies and television shows which continued Mayhew's association with his character and the franchise for the next decades.
Silva has competed for the UFC, Strikeforce, EliteXC, Cage Rage, Fight Nights Global, World Victory Road, K-1 HERO'S, and Cage Warriors.
Because of her condition, she usually uses a wheelchair to move, but is able to walk short distances with a walker.
He was buried in a coffin that was 9 feet (2.7 m) long and 3 feet (0.9 m) wide, and laid to rest at the Lakeside Cemetery just west of Hancock.
Suleiman Ali (1943 – February 25, 1991) was a Libyan basketball player and actor and one of 29 known people in medical history to have verifiably reached a height of 8 feet (240 cm) or more.
His left foot measures 36.5 cm (14.4 in) and his right foot measures 35.5 cm (14.0 in), whereas his hands are the longest measured in a living person at 28.5 cm (11.2 in).
Parastremmatic Dwarfism is further characterised by short stature, bowing of extremeties and further neuroskeletal dysplasia.
At a young age, he became interested in mathematics, and became a doctoral student under David Hilbert in Gottingen.
Debasis Saha and found to be at least 7 ft 3.5 in (2.223 m), but her fully upright height was estimated to be at least 7 ft 8 in (2.34 m).
William Bradley (10 February 1787 – 30 May 1820), known more commonly as Giant Bradley or the Yorkshire Giant, was a British man known as one of the tallest to ever live, measuring 7 feet 9 inches (2.36 m), the same height as Angus MacAskill from Scotland.
Lauderdale was selected in the first round, with the 28th overall pick of the 1996 NBA draft, by the Atlanta Hawks.
At the age of 15, he had an overactive pituitary gland issue that caused him to grow to a height of 6’11” by his sophomore year at Latin School of Chicago.
Limb-lengthening will increase the length of the legs and arms of someone with achondroplasia, but little medical consensus exists regarding this practice.
Intellectual and learning disabilities are commonly present, and more than two-thirds of affected individuals have syndromic autism or social communication disorder.
His father, a prolific womanizer, abandoned the family when Silva was still young and was later killed by a colleague working in Alaska.
When he was nine years old, his family moved to the Greater Los Angeles area, where Kiel graduated from Baldwin Park High School.
There is uncertainty around what Gongor's occupation at the Bogd Khan's court was: accountant and keeper of the Bogd Khan's elephant, the Bogd Khan's bodyguard, or wrestler.
Taverns Porter opened his first tavern, The Lone Star, in 1836 near the Portland Canal in Louisville.
Harry Wilson (22 November 1897 – 6 September 1978) was a British character actor who appeared in over 300 films from 1928 to 1965 and proudly proclaimed himself "Hollywood's ugliest man".
At the age of 17, he was very strong and reportedly could lift a lorry, but had back and joint issues and difficulty walking by age 20.
Their conclusion suggests that Porter had a hormone disorder called acromegaly, which affects about three out of every one million people.
A royal company consisting of the Bohemian king Frederick V, Elector Palatine, his wife Elizabeth of Bohemia and the princess Amalia of Solms-Braunfels, living in The Hague at the time, visited her, curious about the "nine-year-old girl taller than every man in Europe".
Career and personal life When he was younger, Aisbitt worked at the Olympia Theatre as a stage doorman.
Zhan received a good education in various countries, and developed a good understanding of ten languages.
'giant', plural: γίγαντες, gígantes), also known as giantism, is a condition characterized by excessive growth and height significantly above average.
Diagnosis The diagnosis of this condition can be done via X-rays (with lack of normal distance L1 to L5), and additionally genetic testing is available to ascertain hypochondroplasia.
In 2006–07, he played in the Russian Super League for Khimki BC and former team Lokomotiv Novosibirsk.
After leaving school he worked on a farm near the town of Pocklington, earning less than 10 shillings (50p) a week.
Treatment may range from antibiotics and other medical therapy, to surgery in order to correct the anatomical anomaly.
However, the circus refused to pay, so they decided to preserve the body which they then put on display in St.
S2CID 31353649.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) Goldman AB, Kaye JJ (1977).
The campaign aims to challenge stereotypes, reduce stigma, and encourage understanding of the lived experiences of people with dwarfism.
Restricted pre- and postnatal growth are in turn important determinants of short adult height, increasing the likelihood of the next generation experiencing stunted growth.
Nevertheless, the focus is on fostering connections among affected individuals for exchange of experiences and knowledge.
Basketball career United States Sun played with several American minor league teams, including the USBL team Dodge City Legend, the ABA team Maryland Nighthawks, and the IBL team Grand Rapids Flight.
Kiel took a quieter profile after Happy Gilmore's release, becoming semi-retired, but he recorded a role for the Disney film Tangled (2010): Vlad, a surprisingly softhearted thug who collects ceramic unicorns.
He was often compared with Sun Mingming, because both of them have acromegaly, and could slam dunk without their feet leaving the ground.
Some women with Turner's report being unable to create fingerprint passwords due to hypoplastic dermatoglyphics.
On 14 February 2011, he appeared on an episode of The Gadget Show on Five in the UK to test out phones by dropping them.
The character is said to have generated some interest in trampling, the act of being stepped on by a partner playing a sexually dominant role, in particular.
His most unmistakable feature is his frontal depiction, rather rare in Ancient Egypt, making Bes particularly recognizable (and probably pointing to a foreign origin for his cult).
After Severus was murdered in 235, Maximinus was proclaimed emperor by the army, beginning the Crisis of the Third Century, a 50-year period of instability and civil war.
Early life Pesi was born on November 3, 1980, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, at Magee-Women's Hospital.
His coffin measured 10 ft 9 in (3.28 m) long by 2 ft 8 in (0.81 m) wide by 2 ft 6 in (0.76 m) deep, weighed over 1,000 lb (450 kg), and was carried by twelve pallbearers and eight assistants.
In the show Fat Actress debut episode "Big Butts", Kirstie Alley's female hair and makeup artist goes by the name Kevyn after her inspiration Kevyn Aucoin.
The first 1000 days in a child's life are a crucial "window of opportunity" because the brain develops rapidly, laying the foundation for future cognitive and social ability.
Keyes achieved his greatest popularity with his recurring role as oafish bodyguard Hugo Majelewski on the sitcom The Jeffersons.
The body was then passed on to a Montreal circus, but they quickly went bankrupt and dumped the body in a warehouse.
Regarding perioperative / anesthesiological management, recommendations for medical professionals are published at OrphanAnesthesia.
Diagnosis The diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency is a multi-step procedure that involves pituitary MRI, biochemical testing (growth hormone stimulation tests and measurement of IGF-1/IGFBP3), clinical and auxological examination, and genetic test results.
After his team qualified for the 2015 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament, he drew attention on Twitter.
Originally from Ukraine, Vovkovinskiy moved to Rochester, Minnesota in 1989 to be treated at the Mayo Clinic.
Felipe Birriel Fernández, also known as "El Gigante de Carolina" (Carolina's Giant) (August 16, 1916 – March 15, 1994) is considered to have been the tallest Puerto Rican, with an unconfirmed height of 2.413 meters or nearly 7 feet 11 inches.
After treatment with pegvisomant, high growth rates, a feature characteristic of gigantism, can be significantly decreased.
Bone marrow transplants and hematopoietic stem cell transplants are also considered in the treatment of NBS.
The Argentine Basketball Federation also helped Gonzalez with finances in his final years, including donations of appliances for his house, clothes and medicine.
This indicates that MOPD (or a subtype of MOPD) affects less than 200,000 people in the US population.
However, he did not oppose social networks and insisted that his philosophy did not seek to destroy society for the benefit of the individual, but to help to build new networks of social interaction.
The healthcare provider will likely order more testing when CES is identified to look for any potential extra problems, like heart or kidney disorders.
Because children with PD do not grow like other children, poor nutrition, a metabolic disorder, or a digestive disorder may be diagnosed initially.
He always dressed in a long-tail frock coat, an old-fashioned standing collar and a high hat." Fame Capitalizing on his unusual size, traveled the East Coast performing a play based on Gulliver's Travels.
He was selected for Iran's national team in March 2016 after undergoing training sessions at various regional clubs in Iran and made his international debut in 2016 at the Paralympics qualifiers.
John William Rogan (February 12, 1867 – September 11, 1905; some sources indicate 1871 as his birth year), was an American sharecropper who was recorded as the tallest non-mobile person ever and the second-tallest person ever at 8 ft 9 in (267 cm), behind Robert Wadlow.
Dental abnormalities, such as supernumerary central incisors and the absence of some teeth, may occur.
Bostock promoted her as a member of the legendary Dahomey Amazons, a famous all-female fighting force.
Carmel was listed by the Guinness Book of World Records as 9 feet (274 cm) tall, and billed at the heights of 8 ft 9 in (268 cm) and 9 ft 0.625 inches (276 cm) tall, though he may have more realistically been around 7 ft 3 tall.
He had a standing height of at least 8 ft 5.25 in (257.2 cm), placing him as the 6th tallest man in history.
An example of this is that those who are found to have the mUPD7 condition are more likely to also have a speech delay and more difficulty learning.
Porter on December 15, 1811 in Portsmouth, Ohio, Porter moved to Shippingport, Kentucky with his family as an infant where his father sought work at the Tarascon Mill.
This should be done with an equity perspective, as it is likely that stunting rates will vary greatly between different population groups.
The Belangenvereniging van Kleine Mensen (BVKM) (English: Interest Association of Little People) is the Dutch Patients' Organization for little people and patients with skeletal dysplasia.
Housing, clothing, public transportation, and job applications turned out to lead to many mental and practical problems.
National team career Podkolzin was a member of the junior Russian national basketball team that won the silver medal at the 2000 European Cadets Championship.
Anesthesia risk Although a few people with Noonan syndrome have been reported to develop malignant hyperthermia, the gene mutation of diseases known to be associated with malignant hyperthermia is different from that of Noonan syndrome.
These abnormalities that are typically encountered in proximal humerus and around the knees are collectively known as "rachitic-like changes".
He has a younger brother Karl who is 6 ft 5 in (1.96 m) and an older sister Julia who lives in Spain.
Originally thought to belong to mythical giants, these bones were later identified as the exaggerated remains of prehistoric animals, usually whales or elephants.
Anthony Jay Robbins (né Mahavoric, born February 29, 1960) is an American author, coach and motivational speaker.
He also voiced the character in Star Wars: The Clone Wars and portrayed him in some non-canon television shows, including The Muppet Show.
Roussimoff was on crutches at ringside, and after the Disasters won the match, they set out to attack him, but the Legion of Doom made their way to ringside and got in between them and the Giant, who was preparing to defend himself with one of his crutches.
A life-size painting of him also hung in the church for centuries, but today hangs in the Haarlem city hall.
Zhan Shichai (Chinese: 詹世釵) (20 December 1841 – 5 November 1893) was a Chinese man who toured the world as "Chang the Chinese Giant" in the 19th century; his stage name was "Chang Woo Gow".
Other syndromes with clinical features similar to Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome include RAD50 deficiency and Cernunnos/NHEJ deficiency.
Mascots As of 2025, at least four high schools in the United States continue to use midget as a school mascot.
Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II (MOPD II) is a form of primordial dwarfism associated with brain and skeletal abnormalities.
Treatment Treatment of the various manifestations will usually be addressed by a multidisciplinary team.
During the next few weeks, Roberts frequently walked to ringside carrying his snake in its bag during Roussimoff's matches, causing the latter to run from the ring in fright.
and Barnum & Bailey Circus (which billed him as being 9 feet and 5/8 of an inch tall, and 500 pounds).
As he was unable to perform physical labor due to his condition, Rogan made a living by selling portraits and postcards at a train station.
80% of children born with one of these conditions are born to parents with no previous family history of genetic skeletal dysplasia.
Sex-linked dwarf broiler female parent stocks reduce costs, improve animal welfare and economic efficiency in the European broiler industry (see: Use of...).
He performed at the Concordia-Theater in Berlin, Germany from September 1 until November 30, 1885; even the tall soldiers of Emperor Wilhelm I seemed to be dwarves beside him.
Barnum helped popularize the term "midget" when he began featuring General Tom Thumb, Lavinia Warren and Commodore Nutt in his circus.
Kickboxing In August 2017, Silva signed with Glory Kickboxing, and made his debut against Rico Verhoeven at Glory 46 on 14 October 2017 in Guangzhou, China.
Presentation Parastremmatic dwarfism is apparent at birth, with affected infants usually being described as "stiff", or as "twisted dwarfs" when the skeletal deformities and appearance of dwarfism further present themselves.
Publications The association publishes the quarterly member magazine "betrifft kleinwuchs," featuring current internal association information, personal experiences, articles on new research findings, or general information about the work of self-help.
Between 2020 and 2021, the maximum statistics dropped from 60% in Burundi and 55% in several other countries, to 55% in Burundi and 50% in several other countries; the extreme rate of child morality had changed from 21% in Sierra Leone to 12% in Niger (according to UNICEF).
TLC reality star Shauna Rae was affected by a medically-caused growth hormone deficiency resulting from childhood glioblastoma cancer treatment.
Growth hormone, also called somatotropin, is a polypeptide hormone which stimulates growth and cell reproduction.
Across the 20th century, however, stunting declined in most regions, forming a central component of the broader health transition associated with improvements in nutrition, sanitation, and disease environments.
Health issues and death Contrary to rumors, and despite being 6 ft 9 in (2.06 m) tall, Cassidy did not suffer from gigantism.
The syndrome was first recognized in 2014 by Katrina Tatton-Brown, Nazneen Rahman, and collaborators.
Under the settlement, RRI did not admit to having violated any law, but agreed to pay $221,260 in consumer redress.
Paulo César da Silva (born July 21, 1963) is a Brazilian former national basketball player for the Brazilian national basketball team and later mixed martial artist and professional wrestler, better known by his ring name Giant Silva.
Their services include public education and awareness, quarterly newsletters, national networking, an annual convention, disorder specific brochures, and a Kids Program.
Vosoritide works by binding to a specific receptor called natriuretic peptide receptor B that reduces the growth regulation gene's activity, thus allowing for bone growth.
Doctors believe that Bisad has a condition called pituitary giantism, that makes growth continue after most people stop developing.
In 2025, a Iowa State Senator Molly Donohue introduced a bill to prohibit schools receiving state aid, including Estherville Lincoln, from using "discriminary mascots" including midgets.
History After seeing a dwarf woman struggling to find appropriate clothes, CEO of CBH Model Management Myriam Chalek decided she wanted to raise awareness about achondroplasia (a form of dwarfism) by exposing the fashion and modeling industry to the unexplored market of dwarfism.
He claimed to be 8 feet 7 inches (2.62 m) and weigh 460 pounds (210 kg), but a researcher named Craig Albert more recently used photo-analysis to determine his size was somewhere between 8’3″ and 8’6″ tall.
His health, however had worsened progressively and he died from a heart attack on March 15, 1994, at the age of 77, in Carolina, Puerto Rico.
He was being considered for measurement by Guinness for the Guinness World Record for the tallest living person at the time of his death in 1991.
Zeng outgrew her mother by age five and at age 13, she stood 232 centimetres (7 ft 7 in), taller than the tallest man Robert Wadlow was at the same age, at 224 centimetres (7 ft 4 in).
Still's disease amyloidosis acromegaly Treatment As the causes of local gigantism are varied, treatment depends on the particular condition.
Around 1869 he married Augusta White a German snake charmer that he met while traveling for his show.
Parastremmatic Dwarfism is a very rare disorder, and as of 2011, only 5 people were diagnosed worldwide.
However, the characteristics of a fetus suffering from the milder dominant form may not always be easy to differentiate from a more serious recessive case.
Clifford Marshall Thompson (October 18, 1904 – October 15, 1955) was one of the world's tallest men, the world's tallest lawyer, and remains the tallest man to ever appear in a Hollywood film.
This pronunciation has been criticized by Romanian language speakers, who have said that the correct pronunciation is "dimi-tres-ku", as it is a Romanian name.
She presumably suffered from a case of gigantism and never stopped growing, her last known height was 218 centimetres (7 feet 2 inches) shortly before her death.
Berlin Fashion Week, July 11, 2015: Berlin based fashion designer Sema Gedik presented a street wear collection called "Auf Augenhöhe" ("At Eyelevel") for people with dwarfism.
After obtaining his university degree in geography, a French doctor took Takioullah to Paris in 2006, for treatment.
Porter stood 7 feet 8 inches tall, weighed 300 pounds, had hands 13 inches long from the wrist to the tip of the middle finger and feet that were 14 ½ inches long.
Yasutaka Okayama (岡山恭崇, Okayama Yasutaka; born November 29, 1954) is a Japanese former professional basketball player and coach.
SRCAP has been shown to transduce signals of nuclear (steroid) hormone receptors and Notch pathways, showing that it plays diverse roles in gene expression.
In 1981, a man who had watched Channa at the Dargah Hazrat Lal Shahbaz Qalandar Sehwan Sharif and sent a letter and some photos of Channa to the Guinness Book of World Records.
Founding LPA was founded in 1957 by actor Billy Barty when he informally called upon people of short stature to join him in a get-together in Reno, Nevada.
The condition follows an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, meaning a single copy of the altered gene can cause the disorder.
Priest Lauderdale (born August 31, 1973) is an American-Bulgarian former professional basketball player.
They developed a Consensus Paper addressing the situation of ASDD in Europe and proposing political actions for improvement.
History Otto Werner was the first to observe Werner syndrome in 1904 as a part of his dissertation research.
Growth hormone receptor mutations Molecular genetic investigations have shown that LS is mainly associated with autosomal recessive mutations in the gene for the growth hormone receptor (GHR).
His brother, Jacques Roussimoff, was interviewed for the documentary, as were fellow wrestling personalities Gorilla Monsoon, Tim White, Arnold Skaaland, Vince McMahon, Freddie Blassie, Killer Kowalski, Rene Goulet, and Frenchy Bernard, as well as wrestling historian Sheldon Goldberg.
Homn in Star Trek: The Next Generation (1987–1992), and the household butler Lurch in the Addams Family films of 1991, 1993 and 1998.
They have difficulties with directional sense, visualization of three-dimensional shapes, properties of shapes, and symmetry and may have dyscalculia.
The meeting marked the celebration of Guinness World Records Day and the organisation's 70th anniversary.
Gabriel Estêvão Monjane (1944 – January 21, 1990) is one of 29 known people in medical history to have verifiably reached a height of 8 feet (240 cm) or more.
Diagnosis Temple syndrome can be suspected by combination of symptoms and diagnosis confirmed through genetic testing.
Boys under the age of 10 usually have reduced muscle tone but later, patients with SFMS over the age of 10 have increased muscle tone and reflexes that cause spasticity.
While not a defining feature, most individuals with GAPO syndrome have coarse facial features, and abnormal structure of the middle portion of their faces, typically coupled with a large forehead.
Our height-related challenges are primarily based on inaccessible architecture, lack of universal design, and society’s intolerance and discrimination of people with short stature.
The fact that NCS has so far only been found in females may be by chance or may be due to the X linkage of some of the genes and regions potentially responsible for NCS, in which the lack of a healthy copy on a second X chromosome could render the disease lethal in males.
Cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) syndrome - CFC syndrome is very similar to Noonan's Syndrome due to similar cardiac and lymphatic features.
College career George was academically ineligible for his first season with the UNC Asheville Bulldogs and missed his second season after he dislocated a knee during preseason.
Presentation & Genetics Blood levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH) are undetectable, but the mutation in the PTH1R leads to auto-activation of the signaling as though the hormone PTH is present.
His arms measured 3 ft 10.06 in (117 cm), his legs were 4 ft 1+1⁄4 in (1.25 m) long, his skull weighed 89⁄100 stone (5.7 kg), and he couldn't stand due to his head being too heavy for him.
Lebar portrays one of the Space Jockey aliens seen in Ridley Scott's 2012 science fiction film, Prometheus.
Cajanus died on 27 February 1749, leaving a large sum in his will to pay for a lavish funeral and a burial vault inside the Grote Kerk, with the intention of safeguarding his remains from disturbance.
His oversized jaw and large nose were partially attributed to acromegaly; he was first diagnosed with it by an endocrinologist who saw Benedict in a theatrical production.
Regular visits to an ophthalmologist to monitor and deal with other eye problems, some of which may require surgery, are strongly recommended.
It can cause the body to completely stop growing but is generally considered to be temporary; regular growth will resume when the source of stress is removed.
Zhang Juncai (Chinese: 張俊才) is one of the world's tallest people, standing at least 2.42 meters (7 ft 11 in) tall.
Genetics Genes encoding growth hormone (GH1) or the growth-hormone-releasing hormone receptor (GHRHR) have been linked to the pathogenesis of isolated growth hormone insufficiency.
Not everything a face wrestler does must be heroic: faces need only to be clapped or cheered by the audience to be effective characters.
In the United States, the term is generally meant as an insult and derogatory criticism, suggesting that the wrestlers have to rely on risky spots to get a reaction from fans due to a lack of charisma, personality and understanding of psychology.
Although some NHL franchises own their AHL and/or ECHL affiliates, many AHL and ECHL franchises are independently owned, with ties to NHL franchises made through affiliation contracts.
When one promotion absorbs or purchases another, the titles from the defunct promotion may continue to be defended in the new promotion or be decommissioned, usually through championship unification.
It is a distinction given to a professional wrestler who has either won four specific championships within a promotion throughout their career, or all available championships.
Wrestling fans who followed match results online began to catch on as Goldberg's streak grew exponentially, and he began to incur the first backlash of his career.
The following list gives the development of corporate offices as portrayed in storylines and should not be confused with their counterparts in the actual structure in WWE LLC (and its parent TKO Group Holdings) and its predecessors.
As an example, during a feud with Ronda Rousey, Becky Lynch led an invasion of the former's show (as Rousey was a member of Monday Night Raw at the time, while Lynch was on SmackDown).
During its existence, TNA controlled the booking of the NWA World Heavyweight Championship and treated it as its foremost title.
Notable examples include "The Mouth of The South" Jimmy Hart in Memphis, Bobby "The Brain" Heenan in the American Wrestling Association, Sunny and the "Three Wise Men" (Lou Albano, Freddie Blassie, and The Grand Wizard) in the World Wide Wrestling Federation (now the WWE).
A few weeks later, the RAW Tag Team Championship was renamed as the World Tag Team Championship and the SmackDown Tag Team Championship was renamed as the WWE Tag Team Championship.
Before the 1980s when title matches were rare, some champions could keep their titles even when injured; Bruno Sammartino kept his WWWF World Heavyweight Championship from April to June 1976 despite being injured by a botched body slam from Stan Hansen.
On rare occasions, a male wrestler will compete in championship matches for championships generally contested exclusively in the women's division.
The division also seemingly dropped using the 'Women of Honor' name as a month later, 'Women's Division Wednesdays' returned on ROH's official YouTube channel starting on April 28, 2021.
A few managers, like Paul Ellering, are legitimate managers in the truest sense of the word, taking care of the day-to-day needs of their clients by dealing with travel arrangements, rentals, lodgings and even contractual negotiations.
This ultimately resulted in the titles being no longer being listed among TNA's active championships.
One of the two referees in the ring, Jim Korderas, quickly counted three to end the bout, despite the fact that Puder's shoulders were not fully down on the mat, bridging up at two.
Fuji once cooked another wrestler's dog and served it to him to eat, though the story may be apocryphal.
Slaughter, and most recently, John Cena, after his acting debut of the film The Marine, and tag-teams The Shield, and The Authors of Pain.
By the 1990s, promotions such as the WWF and WCW began to prioritize pay-per-view events and live weekly television programs, rendering house shows to be mostly minor events with no long-term story significance.
During the ROH 19th Anniversary Show on March 26, 2021, Maria Kanellis made her on-screen return to the promotion and announced a new tournament to crown a new ROH Women's World Champion, the first since the retirement of the Women of Honor World Championship at the beginning of 2020.
WWE would later follow up on the concept by installing LED boards on Amway Center and later Tropicana Field, branded as WWE ThunderDome on-screen and mixing arena's audio with that of the virtual fans when the promotion began moving tapings from the WWE Performance Center in August 2020.
Some jobbers, such as Barry Horowitz, Iron Mike Sharpe, the Brooklyn Brawler or the Mulkey Brothers grew to become household names to fans.
A jobber who defeats "pure jobbers" as well as mid-card wrestlers in matches, but consistently loses to main event level wrestlers.
The Islanders would chew some fruit (usually pineapple) and then spit it over their chests, and so on.
Heels can also be other characters held in low esteem by the public, such as a repossession agent (a role played by Barry Darsow as Repo Man).
In November 2013, then World Heavyweight Champion John Cena made a challenge to then WWE Champion Randy Orton to determine WWE's undisputed world champion; the match would take place at the TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs pay-per-view the following month.
Other wrestlers who performed mainly as jobbers during this period included "Leaping" Lanny Poffo, Brady Boone, Tiger Chung Lee, Barry O, Reno Riggins, Duane Gill, Barry Hardy, Mick Foley, Scott Casey, Dangerous Danny Davis (also wrestling as Mr.
Following the loss of the Mexican National title AAA decided to create a new title, the AAA World Mini-Estrellas Championship as the centerpiece of their Mini-Estrellas division, won by Mini Charly Manson.
Declining ratings saw Bischoff ousted in 1999 and former WWF writer Vince Russo was hired in an attempt to salvage the company.
Masked wrestlers were frequently disparaged by top promoters during this period as a symptom of the allegedly "anarchic" conditions in American wrestling - indeed the first masked wrestler on ITV, The Outlaw (Gordon Nelson) was announced as being an American.
Divas Champion Melina faced self-professed co-WWE Women's Champion Michelle McCool in a lumberjill match.
His tenure saw the creation of Nitro, the start of the Monday Night War and the formation of the New World Order.
For example, on February 26, 2011 at ROH 9th Anniversary Show Sara Del Ray defeated MsChif with Shane Hagadorn in Sara's corner as a male valet / ally.
Typically, each promotion only recognizes the "legitimacy" of their own titles, although cross-promotion does happen.
On December 16, 2012, a 26-bell salute was given at the beginning of WWE's TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs pay-per-view in tribute to the 26 victims of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting that had taken place two days earlier in WWE's home state of Connecticut.
Later on in 2009 CMLL would hold another "all Minis" cage match as well as a match that saw Minis and regular sized wrestlers compete against each other.
The ref counted a three even though Puder's shoulders weren't fully down, trying to end the thing, because the reality was Angle would have been in surgery had it gone a few seconds longer or had Puder not given up the hold.
In Mexico, a masked wrestler's identity is often not even a matter of public record, and being unmasked, usually as a stipulation of losing a match, is considered a great humiliation.
It is a major taboo for a Mexican wrestler who has lost his mask to start wearing one again, though this has occasionally been violated, as in the case of Rey Mysterio.
A house show (also commonly called a live event) is a professional wrestling event produced by a major promotion that is not televised, though they can be recorded.
In an interview with The Sun, Traci Brooks confirmed that Playboy magazine (which previously had a partnership agreement with WWE prior to the organization converting to PG-rated television content) reached a new partnership agreement with Impact Wrestling.
Fan interference and violence was prevalent in the northeastern and southern United States from the mid to late 20th century, where many wrestling territories became known for offering violent action to a rabid, fiercely loyal audience which largely believed in what it was seeing.
In the past several years, however, All Elite Wrestling has used blading semi-frequently by way of specific wrestlers like Jon Moxley and Adam Page.
For example, Jake "The Snake" Roberts got Bob Emory's and Trent Knight's heads inside the sack where he kept his python snake.
Sometimes it may specify a specific state or territory, such as the NWA Georgia Heavyweight Championship.
Bobcat also debuted as a valet in a match that was taped during the first PPV, but aired during the second PPV.
After Brown suffered career-ending injuries in an automobile accident on November 1, 1949, the NWA recognised Lou Thesz as the champion.
Another way a referee may be involved is if there is an injury, or one of the wrestlers fails to respond to a 10 count or a pin.
2022: Undisputed WWE (Universal) Championship & Undisputed WWE Tag Team Championship At WrestleMania 38 in 2022, the Universal Championship held by Roman Reigns from SmackDown and the WWE Championship held by Brock Lesnar from Raw were unified.
The mask in Japanese wrestling The Destroyer, an American, was the first masked wrestler to work in Japan during the 1960s but remained a novelty with very few Japanese wrestlers choosing to wear a mask.
They are conducted out of character with a wrestler, promoter, manager, or other insider generally being interviewed about their career and asked to give their opinion on wrestlers, promotions, or specific events in their past.
For example, Edge and Kurt Angle each held the title when it was still referred to as the WCW United States Championship.
Hart won the match and the championship, but lost it to Sycho Sid in a match the following night on Raw.
Goldberg was booked to win over Morrus, and thus began a win streak that carried over onto Saturday Night and non-televised house shows.
Jenkins was eventually defeated by Frank Gotch, who took over as the only man with a potentially legitimate claim to being "the true champion".
One of the longest feuds of all time was the feud between Ric Flair and Ricky Steamboat, estimated by Flair to comprise more than 2,000 matches, though he admits that most of those matches were "confined to those in the arena".
During years 2015 to 2016 Ring of Honor regularly aired and promoted their Women of Honor matches called Women of Honor Wednesday matches (Also known as Women Division Wednesday matches starting years 2021 to 2022) on their YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter platforms.
Serious botches resulting in injuries often result in improvised endings to matches, or the remainder of a match will be canceled if a wrestler cannot continue or requires immediate medical attention.
Owen Hart In the WWE, Owen Hart was well-known for the various ribs he pulled on other WWE employees, so much so that a book has been written on the subject.
One negative aspect is that ticket prices for its televised events has skyrocketed to make up some of the lost revenue from scaling back on house shows as well as increased demand for said tickets without house shows as an option.
In modern combat sports Professional wrestling In professional wrestling, ring girls are attendants who remove the entrance gear (such as jackets, robes, and other clothing) and championship belts from the ring after a wrestler takes them off before his match.
In 1988, Harley Race was "honored" with ten bells as part of a promo by Bobby "The Brain" Heenan, wherein Heenan accused Hulk Hogan of causing serious injuries to Race.
Occasionally, faces who have recently turned from being heels still exhibit characteristics from their heel persona.
Both Reynolds and Alvarez were previously featured columnists for British pro wrestling and MMA magazine Fighting Spirit.
The unexpected response led to Knockout eventually trending on Twitter ahead of other events on that night's Raw.
The reduction of house shows also eliminates many smaller markets who can't support a television taping from hosting any WWE events, forcing fans in those areas to drive a considerable distance to attend a TV taping.
A "bookend" tag team is a (sometimes derogatory) term for a tag team where the members look and/or dress alike (e.g., The Killer Bees, the British Bulldogs, Los Conquistadores, the Hart Foundation, etc.).
Austin would wrestle under that name for several years before signing with the WWF and being given the name "the Ringmaster".
While clearly not championing rule following, nor submission to authority, Austin was still regarded as the face in many of his duels such as his rivalry with World Wrestling Federation (WWF, later WWE) owner Mr.
During the late 19th century-early 20th century, when wrestler Frank Gotch rose to prominence, the focus became on contests largely legitimate (see catch wrestling), which largely resulted in the abandoning previous character gimmicks.
Championships contested by Cruiserweights cannot be held by wrestlers who are not Cruiserweights, but Cruiserweights are normally eligible to compete for Heavyweight championships (e.g.
As such, successful managers almost invariably had the "gift of the gab", though it was not unheard of to see managers paired with wrestlers who had no trouble cutting their own promos.
Indeed, later during filming, Aronofsky admitted that Rourke needn't actually gig; however, by his own will, Rourke decided to go through with it anyway.
For example, on May 19, 1996, the MSG "Curtain Call", which was also a rare example of a shoot, occurred at a house show taped at Madison Square Garden.
regional/independent promotions Florida Championship Wrestling (2012) In Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW), WWE's former developmental territory, a Grand Slam winner was a wrestler who had won every championship that was available in FCW.
To maintain their TV-PG rating, when a wrestler bleeds on live television, WWE tends to attempt to stop the bleeding mid-match or use different camera angles to avoid showing excessive blood.
Each weight class has an official upper limit, but examples of wrestlers who are technically too heavy to hold their title can be found.
Puder later claimed he would have snapped Angle's arm on national television if Korderas had not ended the match.
However, second-generation wrestler Bret Hart recalls that many wrestlers themselves were avid readers of the magazines in his youth because they too wanted to keep up with the backstage news; other people such as wrestling journalists have backed up that this was the case in the past.
This is contrasted with most heroic técnicos that are generally known for using moves requiring technical skill, particularly aerial maneuvers.
Examples include Wilfred "El Radar" Benítez, Wilfredo "Bazooka" Gómez, and Alexis "El Flaco Explosivo" Argüello.
As of 2026, it is still unclear if this title has been added as an acceptable substitute for WWE's Grand Slam.
The eligibility of the TNA International Championship was confirmed as a Grand Slam title after Frankie Kazarian won the TNA World Title in late 2025, with him previously holding the X Division, International, and Tag Team Titles.
Tag team match rules The basic tag team match has two teams of two wrestlers facing off against each other.
Late in the show, friends Chris Benoit, Dean Malenko, and Shane Douglas (known as The Revolution) shared heartfelt words about Hildebrand and dedicated the show to him.
Fuji was notorious for his mean-spirited ribs, as he has been alleged to have slipped laxatives into other wrestlers' drinks, nailed and glued their clothes to the ceiling, cancelled their flights, removed the engine from Bobby Eaton's car, and many others.
This caused an on-screen intervention from "general manager" Eric Bischoff and an instruction from Bischoff to Sting to immediately and legitimately pin Hardy.
A ring name is a type of stage name or nickname used by an athlete such as a professional wrestler, mixed martial artist, or boxer whose real name is considered unattractive, dull, difficult to pronounce or spell, amusing for the wrong reasons, or projecting the wrong image.
Total Nonstop Action Wrestling In 2002, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) introduced the "X Division"—an openweight class and championship that places an emphasis on fast-paced matches and high-flying moves.
The act itself is jobbing, whereas the act of booking (rather than being booked) to job is called jobbing out.
A wrestler can change from face to heel (or vice versa) in an event known as a turn, or gradually transition from one to the other over the course of a long storyline.
ROH World Six-Man Tag Team Champions Bullet Club Gold (Jay White, Austin Gunn, and Colton Gunn) defeated AEW World Trios Champions The Acclaimed (Max Caster, Anthony Bowens, and Billy Gunn) in a Winners Take All match to unify the titles as the AEW Unified World Trios Championship.
2014 (co-winner): Vince McMahon's comments about "brass rings"; The Bella Twins' feud angle ("Bella vs.
Starting in March 2023, All Elite Wrestling launched a series of house shows under the "House Rules" brand.
Velvet Sky was named "Woman of the Year" by Modelsmania magazine after featuring on the cover and in a pictorial in the August 2013 issue of the publication.
In Mexico, Puerto Rico, and other parts of Latin America, lucha libre wrestlers use ring names and conceal their identities with masks.
On March 12, 2003, Leilani Kai defeated Madison to win the NWA World Women's Championship in a dark match on a TNA pay-per-view.
Although WWE billed the match as a championship unification, both titles have maintained their individual lineages.
Alexa Bliss was also given a different gimmick after her alliance with Bray Wyatt in late 2020s, appearing suddenly and sometimes attacking the other wrestlers, the same things that Bray Wyatt would do.
Outside professional wrestling Kayfabe, while not referred to as such, has existed in other areas of show business and politics, especially in feuds.
Kris Statlander's character was originally an alien gimmick, which she was nicknamed "The Galaxy's Greatest Alien" and billed as having come from the Andromeda Galaxy.
The original Tiger Mask, Satoru Sayama was inspired by Mil Máscaras to create the masked "Tiger Mask" persona.
Honorees World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment/WWE WWE (formerly known as the World Wrestling Federation and World Wrestling Entertainment) has included several ten-bell salutes in its television broadcasts and live events.
WWE partially repealed the policy in 2015, allowing wrestlers who were well known in other promotions such as Samoa Joe, A.J.
Shoots in general are against the nature of the business, similar to an actor ad-libbing or dropping character during a performance.
Production Since house shows are not televised, promotions do not usually deploy the same setup for staging or pyrotechnics used for their television counterparts.
From that point onward, there was no undisputed champion, as multiple men laid claim to the title without ever backing it up by defeating multiple other contenders.
schmoz/schmozz A match that ends in chaos rather than in a decisive finish, usually due to a number of wrestlers not involved in the match running in and preventing a clean finish, often designed to end a match or angle.
Although the examples cited largely occurred in the last century, ribbing is a wrestling tradition that continues.
Drew McIntyre has stated that his running kick finishing move, The Claymore, was accidentally invented as he slipped while delivering an attempted Big Boot, with the tight leather pants he was wearing at the time forcing him to fall to the mat.
List of Tokyo Joshi Pro Wrestling Grand Slam winners World Wonder Ring Stardom (2022) In the joshi puroresu (women's professional wrestling) promotion World Wonder Ring Stardom, the Grand Slam consists of all the available titles promoted by the company except the Future of Stardom Championship.
Other governing bodies would create their own version of the World Championship in the 1930s and 1940s, as well.
shoot When a wrestler or personality deliberately goes off-script, either by making candid comments or remarks during an interview, breaking kayfabe, or legitimately attacking an opponent.
Professional wrestling had just come off a huge steroid scandal and was facing poor ratings compared to the 1980s, and as a result, professional wrestling transformed into an edgier, more mature product.
This move is typically done deliberately to make the attacker appear weak or unskilled, but can also be the result of a botch.
In Britain, television took British wrestling to the next level when in 1964, it went full-time as part of the World of Sport show.
Gooker Award The Gooker Award is given each year to the worst gimmick, storyline, match, or event in wrestling in that year.
Examples of this include the NXT Heritage Cup (which is specifically contested under "British Round Rules") in WWE's NXT brand, and the ROH Pure Championship in Ring of Honor (which is contested under "Pure Wrestling Rules").
Gotch wrestled for several years before retiring as undisputed champion Other wrestlers who were recognized as the only major World Champion following Gotch's retirement were Earl Caddock, Joe Stecher, Ed "Strangler" Lewis, Stanislaus Zbyszko, and Wayne Munn.
By the 1980s midget wrestling was less popular in Mexico, especially since few new wrestlers had joined the division.
John Cena took the longest time to complete the modern format, doing so in 7,911 days between March 2004 and November 2025.
Hildebrand's death was briefly acknowledged on the following episode of Thunder, but the first WCW event to have taken place after his death was a house show on September 11 at the Baltimore Arena, which was held in his honor with a ten-bell salute.
AEW's storyline hierarchy is generally reflective of its real-life hierarchy, but exaggerated for dramatic effect.
During his period as the leader of The Ministry of Darkness, he appeared as a priest of the occult in a hooded black robe and literally sat in a throne, often in the shape of the symbol used to represent him.
After months of competition between the tag teams in the Knockouts division, on October 24 at the Bound for Glory pay-per-view, Madison Rayne announced that after nearly eight years of inactivity, Impact Wrestling is reviving the Knockouts Tag Team Championship.
Toshiaki Kawada inadvertently invented the Ganso bomb, one of the most dangerous moves in wrestling, after he failed to execute a powerbomb on Mitsuharu Misawa due to breaking his arm earlier in the match and instead dropped his head unprotected.
This, however, would change over the years and decades to come as professional wrestling grew and evolved.
The first Next Pro season will feature 21 teams, all but one of which are MLS reserve sides, with most having been withdrawn from the USL system in advance of the establishment of the new league.
ECW shut down in 2001 with Rhino as their last champion, seemingly leaving the group of prominent world championships down to two, and with WCW's subsequent fall and purchase by the WWF during the same year, the World Wrestling Federation Championship remained.
This sort of behavior supports the intended kayfabe opinion that the face (or faces) the heel is feuding with is actually more deserving of the title than the title-holding heel is.
In the next weeks, Bruce's tag team partner, Lenny, tried to get Bruce injured (since the runner-up would then take over the crown should the champion be injured).
The tournament consisted of two torneo cibernetico elimination matches with the winner of each facing off in a singles match on August 24.
The expression "feeding a comeback" refers to behavior by heels to increase the dramatic impact of a comeback.
Shortly afterwards, with the steel steps inside the ring, Triple H hit a spinebuster on The Undertaker, who then managed to lock in the Hell's Gate, which was countered when Triple H lifted him up and slammed him on the steel steps.
In wrestling terminology, these characters are referred to as tweeners (short hand for the "in-between" good and evil actions these wrestlers display).
Sometimes the fans generate the push for a wrestler themselves when their approval for the wrestler's work generates a positive reaction from them that is not anticipated.
AAA would later create another "first" in the Mini-Estrellas division as they created Los Mini Vipers, a Mini version of the Los Vipers stable.
Promotion The popularity of women in TNA has resulted cross-promotion with other brands featuring the TNA Knockouts.
Hardy did not understand what was happening and attempted but failed to kick-out with Sting holding down the pin, with Hardy losing the match in only a few minutes.
The term is also often used by wrestling fans, in another definition (in this case, also known as shoot wrestling) to refer to mixed martial arts competitions, which, while superficially similar to wrestling matches, are actual athletic competition rather than sports entertainment.
In late 1997 CMLL booked an eight-man torneo cibernetico elimination match where the winner would earn the right to work in the "regular sized" division.
Queen of the Knockouts (2013–2016) TNA held a series of matches featuring various Knockouts at TNA One Night Only: Knockout Knockdown.
In spite of their limited wrestling ability, perceived or otherwise, valets are more likely to participate in the occasional wrestling match in comparison to managers, and are frequently booked in mixed tag team matches against rival valets and their associated wrestlers as part of storyline angles.
Often used in the context of describing in-ring skill level (e.g., "He is a good/bad worker"), or when contrasting a wrestler primarily known for their in-ring abilities with others better known for their size or personality (e.g., "He is the worker of the group").
4 ^ Allie Recks was slated to take VonStarr's place in the tournament, but a knee injury kept her from competing.
The American Wrestling Association, owned by Verne Gagne split off from the NWA and declared their primary singles title a world title in 1960.
A more drastic change sometimes occurs when a wrestler turns heroic or villainous, such as when Hulk Hogan joined the villainous nWo (New World Order) and became "Hollywood" Hulk Hogan.
Controversies Allegations of sexism Some sports journalists claim that the use of ring girls, which first started in boxing, is unnecessary.
sports entertainment The term WWE uses to describe both its own product and professional wrestling as a whole.
Ross was also the victim of another of Owen's ribs: it had been revealed that one of the wrestlers had been using cocaine, and it was Jim Ross's job, as Head of Talent Relations in the WWE at that time, to issue an appropriate punishment.
A mystery-themed competition series from 2001, Murder in Small Town X saw contestants roaming around a real-life town in Maine as part of an ongoing storyline, interacting with actors who maintained kayfabe throughout.
Others, such as Jim Cornette or Gary Hart, participate as real-life bookers and/or road agents for their promotions behind the scenes while performing concurrently as managers.
He was one of the first pro-wrestlers to use entrance music, "Pomp and Circumstance" which always played as he made his way to the ring.
This often results in wrestlers who are supposed to be cheered receiving a negative or no reaction from the fans.
Cruiserweight matches are not limited to such moves and due to the greater speed and agility of the wrestlers can involve more technical grappling than that seen in Heavyweight divisions.
The storyline soon came to a close due to poor crowd reception, with Pennington and Goldylocks walking off together holding hands, as Lenny and Bruce fought over Pennington.
On March 18, 2023, during the Grand Princess event, Rika Tatsumi became the first Grand Slam champion in TJPW's history.
It mainly relies on the elite NCAA to produce NBA players, and thus the latter was often known as the "feeders".
While not as common now, female wrestlers have been known to go by just a first name for their ring name.
The company went through a series of vice presidents and bookers, ranging from those with little wrestling experience to those entrenched in the old territorial methods of promotion until Eric Bischoff took control in 1994.
This can be seen as an example of the writers breaking the fourth wall and attempting to court the fans who are interested in shoots (i.e., events outside the traditional in-ring wrestling matchups).
However, if the lineal champion's injury renders them indefinitely sidelined, they can forfeit the championship and the interim champion becomes the lineal champion.
Subsequently, the World Heavyweight Championship was retired and the WWE Championship was renamed the WWE World Heavyweight Championship and retained its lineage.
A shoot in professional wrestling is any unplanned, unscripted, or real-life occurrence within a wrestling event.
During this time, wrestlers like Stone Cold Steve Austin and Sting used tactics traditionally associated with heels, but remained popular with the fans.
More theatrical heels would feature dramatic outfits giving off a nasty or otherwise dangerous look, such as wearing corpse paint over their faces, putting on demonic masks, covering themselves in dark leather and the like.
In June 2012, Velvet Sky had the lead role in Montgomery Gentry's music video for their song "So Called Life".
The Cruiserweight Championship was defended on both Monday Night Raw and 205 Live until 2018, when 205 Live became a separate brand.
Since the mid 20th century, ring names for boxers have typically been less common, although nicknames have become more popular in recent years.
tweener A morally ambiguous wrestler who is neither a face nor heel (an in-betweener), also sometimes describes a heel who is usually cheered or a face who is usually jeered, especially when two faces or two heels face each other.
Boxing Numerous boxers have used ring names or nicknames as their mode of identification during their professional boxing careers, particularly during the late 19th century and the early 20th century.
The role can vary according to disposition as a face authority figure tends to give what the fans want and does what is fair while heel authority figures tend to run their shows out of their own self-interest.
His streak was broken at Sin when Goldberg, teaming with his Power Plant trainer DeWayne Bruce, lost to Totally Buffed in a tag team no disqualification match after a "fan" maced him, enabling Totally Buffed to pin him.
The division featured a number of Minis from Mexico that mainly appeared in backstage skits of a comedic nature but would also occasionally wrestle.
The older term Junior Heavyweight is still favored in Japan, where many titles for lighter-weight competitors are called Junior Heavyweight titles.
Ribs may be practiced as a form of stress relief from the grueling schedule of traveling, experiencing the physical exertion of wrestling, and sleeping in a different town most nights.
In professional wrestling, a ten-bell salute is given to honor a wrestler who has died, especially when the wrestler is a current member of the promotion or a distinguished former member of the promotion.
In the kayfabe period, this served to protect the wrestling business from accusations of "being fake", to instill humility in newer members of the locker room, and it helped to weed out those who could not take punishment.
This is much less common in the present day, as fans may be more clued in to the inner workings of professional wrestling, and this type of heat is transformed into a pop.
Managers, when used judiciously, can completely change the tone and inner workings of a wrestling match.
Male supporting characters who fit the original definition of a valet are uncommon in professional wrestling; a recent example was Ricardo Rodriguez, who performed as Alberto Del Rio's on-screen attendant and personal ring announcer during his tenure in the WWE.
The term "heel" does not, in itself, describe a typical set of attributes or audience reaction, but simply a wrestler's presentation and booking as an antagonist.
Reynolds and Merle Vincent launched the site in April 2000 and it quickly developed a following among wrestling fans.
Ring names are often trademarked by the promotion that creates a character or gimmick for a performer.
Heels are villainous or antagonistic characters, whose personalities are crafted to elicit a negative response from the audience.
Hart was forced to improvise an extended taunt sequence until Austin was able to regain his composure and roll him up in a schoolboy pin, ending the match earlier than planned but with the desired winner.
World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment 2001: Undisputed WWF Championship When the AWA folded in 1991 with Larry Zbyszko as their final champion, one of the last major world titles was gone.
Rhea Ripley has completed the Grand Slam the fastest, completing it in 1,200 days between December 2019 and April 2023, while Becky Lynch took the longest time to complete the Grand Slam, doing so in 2,257 days between September 2016 and September 2023.
Instead of making Virus return to the Minis division to lose the title CMLL decided to give the championship to Ultimo Dragoncito and then subsequently announce that Ultimo Dragoncito had "won" the title on an undisclosed day in October 1999.
Behind the scenes, it was WCW announcer Mike Tenay who came up with the concept of the Goldberg win streak.
Booker T became the second star acquired by the purchase to complete the Grand Slam when he defeated Rey Mysterio for the World Heavyweight Championship at The Great American Bash in July 2006.
Meanwhile, the NWA became less prevalent during the Monday night television ratings war that engrossed the WWF and WCW during the 1990s.
vanilla midget A derogatory term created by Kevin Nash to describe wrestlers who are good in-ring workers, but believed to be too small and generic/bland to ever succeed on a large stage.
While the basic goal of a manager to give their wrestlers a push does not change, the tactics depend on several factors, especially alignment.
The phrase "keep cavey" was also used by Jews in East London between World War I and World War II, which could have been corrupted to the current form by U.S.
On August 15, 2016, the TNA King of the Mountain Championship was once again retired when Lashley unified the title into his TNA World Heavyweight Championship.
The winners of these matches would advance to a battle royal, with the winner being crowned the "Queen of the Knockouts".
His final pre-televised appearance was in a dark match on July 24 at a Saturday Night taping in a loss to Chad Fortune.
In May 2001, Brian Ong was training with Dalip Singh (better known as the Great Khali) and took a flapjack from Singh.
ISO 9:1995 The standard features three mapping tables: the first covers contemporary Slavic languages, the second older Slavic orthographies (excluding letters from the first), and the third non-Slavic languages (including most letters from the first).
In terms of the seven-layer OSI model, the new MMS stack looks like this: With the new stack, MMS has become a globally accepted standard.
Leadership and organization Chair (2014–2021) – Dr.Bobby J.Calder (USA) Secretary Ms Lili Lu (China) ISO/TC 289 currently has the following organisation.
The composition of the gas mixture used for the test shall be given in the operating instructions accompanying the watch.
Usually included are hybrid instruments such as convertible bonds and preferred stocks, counting as a mixture of bonds and stocks.
Taper threads, British Standard Pipe Taper thread (BSPT), whose diameter increases or decreases along the length of the thread; denoted by the letter R.
It is intended to help C language programmers in migration of desktop and server middleware, applications to Symbian OS based mobile smartphone devices.
When the 12 byte ISAN is represented in hexadecimal form it has 24 digits, for example: 000000018947000000000000.
ISO 55001 Asset management – Management systems – Requirements is a standard developed for the use of people or organizations involved in asset management.
Call-by-name is known by many compiler designers for the interesting "thunks" that are used to implement it.
A 3D system modelled on GKS was introduced as PHIGS, which saw some use in the 1980s and early 1990s.
Ferrania's subsequent bankruptcy meant that there was no longer any large-scale factory source for 126 film.
The XFA specification is referenced from ISO 32000-1/PDF 1.7 as an external proprietary specification and was entirely deprecated from PDF with ISO 32000-2 (PDF 2.0).
First designed to describe software components, SPDX can describe the components of software systems, AI models, software builds, security data, and other data packages.
A reduced version without JPEG-LS, arithmetic coding, and a mozjpeg-like hierarchical progressive coder is available under the ISO license.
ATT bit – Attached bit, 7th–4th bits, indicates if the originating router is attached to another area.
message formats), service definitions, a file format definition, which specifies the structure of a DICOM file, as well as a network communication protocol that uses either TCP/IP or HTTPS to communicate between systems.
The IEEE 11073 SDC family of standards currently comprises three parts: Core Standards, Participant Key Purpose (PKIP) standards, and Devices Specialisation (DevSpec) standards.
ISO 13849-2 includes all of the details required for the validation using analytical techniques (including FMEA, FMECA, FMEDA, IFA SISTEMA or any of the other analytical tools available), functional testing, and documentation in a validation record.
The Object Constraint Language (OCL) is a declarative language describing rules applying to Unified Modeling Language (UML) models developed at IBM and is now part of the UML standard.
Their first standard, ACR/NEMA 300, entitled "Digital Imaging and Communications", was released in 1985.
In the 1994 version, P7 was enhanced to provide folders in the message store, allow storage of submitted messages, and provide many automatic actions such as auto-foldering and correlation of replies, delivery reports and receipt notifications with submitted messages.
GKS-3D (Graphical Kernel System for Three Dimensions) functional definition is ISO standard ISO 8805, and the corresponding C bindings are ISO/IEC 8806.
External (inverted) Torx An External Torx version exists, also known as Inverted Torx, where the screw head has the shape of a Torx screwdriver bit, and a Torx socket is used to drive it.
The interest on the debt must be paid regardless of the level of the company's operating income, which may ultimately lead to bankruptcy.
Markets of various asset classes, including equities, options and futures apply for MICs through the ISO.
It was unable to garner significant interest from the American software developer community or trade press.
In December 2016, the Los Angeles Superior Court entered judgment for The Honest Company, dismissing the complaint.
Part 2: Macrogrit sizes P12 to P220 ISO 6344-3:2021: Determination and designation of grain size distribution.
This standard specifies a framework, which "serves as a common basis to identify and coordinate standards development for modelling of enterprises, but not restricted to, computer integrated manufacturing.
Market approaches The market approach to business valuation is rooted in the economic principle of competition: that in a free market the supply and demand forces will drive the price of business assets to a certain equilibrium.
See also General Graphics Interface GSS-KERNEL IGES (Initial Graphics Exchange Specification) NAPLPS References Further reading Hopgood, F.
These principles are subsequently referred to as “management principles” within the body of this standard.
Robbins argued that this notion is beyond positive science; that is, one cannot measure changes in the utility of someone else, nor is it required by positive theory.
Since the amount of bleach needed is related to the lignin content of the pulp, the Kappa number can be used to monitor the effectiveness of the lignin-extraction phase of the pulping process.
Air density must be calculated in order to solve for the pressure, and is used in calculating dynamic pressure for moving vehicles.
His system was adopted by the ISO in 1949 to form the ISO Recommendation R3, first published in 1953 or 1954, which evolved into the international standard ISO 3.
National system This system, adopted in February 2002 by the State Department of Geodesy and Cartography of Georgia and the Institute of Linguistics, Georgian National Academy of Sciences, establishes a transliteration system of the Georgian letters into Latin letters.
ISO 9060, Specification and classification of instruments for measuring hemispherical solar and direct solar radiation, is an ISO standard for the classification of pyranometers and pyrheliometers.
At the same time, it launched the Daily Defense skincare collection to protect from environmental pollutants.
The strategy itself provides relatively small returns that can be offset with huge losses given varying market conditions and poor judgement calls.
Mode message The mode message encodes the number of layers (L layers encoded as the integer L−1), and the number of data codewords (D codewords, encoded as the integer D−1) in the message.
History The standard was developed by the ISO/TC 289 committee, which started the project in May 2016, finishing it during the ISO/TC 289 Plenary Meeting held in Milan at the UNI headquarter from 11 to 13 June 2018.
A government regulation is a legal remedy intended to mitigate or correct an ethical issue, such as air pollution.
See also Watch Diving watch Trench watch Magnetic-resistant watch Water-resistant watch Incabloc shock protection system G-Shock References ISO 1413:1984 Horology – Shock-resistant watches External links What is a shock resistant watch
It is designed to meet the requirements of networked systems of medical devices establishing multipoint-to-multipoint communication.
The IFPI adopted the recommendations in March 1991 and they went into effect for IFPI members on 1 January 1992.
In 2020 an analysis of 73 case studies was made about the experiences companies have made when applying MFCA including success factors and obstacles.
ISO 15189 Medical laboratories — Requirements for quality and competence is an international standard that specifies the quality management system requirements particular to medical laboratories.
For aerospace and military applications, O-rings are usually individually packaged and labeled with the material, cure date, and batch information.
Then in turn secure a life-cycle cost profile (or Whole-life cost when called for) whilst addressing environmental factors like life cycle assessment and service life care and end of life considerations including obsolescence and embodied energy recovery.
The TCP/IP transport layer maps to the graceful close function of the OSI session layer as well as the OSI transport layer.
The underlying SDG-Intense Evaluation framework (SDGIE) can be applied to a wide range of textual data sets and is suggested as a benchmark structure for standardizing AI approaches to the SDGs.
External links PLIB home page Archived 2006-11-24 at the Wayback Machine IEC 61360 - Component Data Dictionary STEP File Analyzer and Viewer
In October 2015, Allied Control has a claimed PUE ratio of 1.02 through the use of two-phase immersion cooling using 3M Novec 7100 fluid.
The consonants ย and ว when used as finals, form diphthongs and triphthongs with the preceding vowel, and ISO 11940-2 uses the vowel letters i and o in such cases.
Network engineers generally prefer to use domain names like "if-bundle-22-2.qcore1.pye-paris.as6453.net" to identify routers, as they contain more relevant and human-readable information.
See more explanation on the official website for ISO 25964 See also ISO 25964-1:2011 Information and documentation -- Thesauri and interoperability with other vocabularies -- Part 1: Thesauri for information retrieval == References ==
A decimal fraction may be added to the lowest order time element present in any of these representations.
The standard was adopted by the governments of Singapore and Peru for their anti-bribery management systems, and formed the basis for the "Shenzhen Standard", an official anti-bribery standard published by the city of Shenzhen, China in June 2017.
The predefined views are: Function View, Information View, Resource View, Organization View/Decision View." Genericity dimension: "This defines the dimension from general concepts to particular models .
Dividends can provide at least temporarily stable income and raise morale among shareholders, but are not guaranteed to continue.
Thus, it is typically important to understand whether a particular implementation corresponds to the original Pascal language, or a Borland dialect of it.
ISO 24517 (PDF/E) was created to meet the needs of organizations who need to reliably create, exchange and review engineering documentation, however, the first part of the standard does not address 3D, video or other dynamic content, nor does it address integrated source data.
See also PDF PDF/A PDF/UA PDF/VT PDF/X References External links AIIM's PDF/E Page PDF/E Draft Standard Speeds Toward ISO PDF ISO Standards PDF/E Competence Center Adobe And Industry Standards PDF To Get An Engineering Edit
Many commercial offset printers have accepted the submission of press-ready PDF files as a print source, specifically the PDF/X-1a subset and variations of the same.
ISO 19439:2006 Enterprise integration—Framework for enterprise modelling, is an international standard for enterprise modelling and enterprise integration developed by the International Organization for Standardization, based on CIMOSA and GERAM.
Canada Canada's Red Tape Reduction Act of 2015 implemented a one-for-one rule that requires the removal of a regulation each time regulators impose a new administrative burden on business.
Also not included are the many nurses who improved on these theorists' ideas without developing their own theoretical vision.
Punctuation and style are not part of the standard; largely, the standard governs content rather than presentation.
In other words, the old and new codes differ only by the replacement of M with 9790, with no change in the check digit.
Other variants Super Pascal adds non-numeric labels, a return statement and expressions as names of types.
It has been described as: A form of institutional maintenance work, preserving legitimacy by limiting exposure.
Controversial industries Industries such as tobacco, alcohol, or munitions firms make products that damage their consumers or the environment.
Activities include community education on proper waste sorting, behaviour change campaigns, and convening plastics value chain stakeholders to improve waste management.
At some point it was divided up into Reference Data Libraries called STEPlib (of USPI) and PClib (of POSC Caesar Association).
Typically, the different types of asset-based loans include accounts receivable financing, inventory financing, equipment financing, or real estate financing.
Competing standards In 2003, the Royal Society of Chemistry published a press release entitled "How to make a Perfect Cup of Tea".
The taper is 1:16, meaning that for each 16 units of measurement increase in the distance from the end, the diameter increases by 1 unit of measurement.
Important features of X.400 include structured addressing, ASN.1 binary code enabling multimedia content (predating and more efficient than MIME), and integrated security capabilities.
In 2008, the system was brought up to a new level and the resulting language termed "Pascaline" (after Pascal's calculator).
The ISO 3166-1 standard currently comprises 249 countries, 193 of which are sovereign states that are members of the United Nations.
Character set There is a variant, sometimes named ASMO 449+ which adds the characters NBSP in 0x75, "ﹳ" in 0x76, "لآ" in 0x77, "لأ" in 0x78, "لإ" in 0x79 and "لا" in 0x7A.
ISO 31 (Quantities and units, International Organization for Standardization, 1992) is a superseded international standard concerning physical quantities, units of measurement, their interrelationships and their presentation.
This was done with several compilers, but one notable exception was UCSD Pascal, which was based on Pascal-P2.
Various XML-based protocols exist to represent the same kind of data structures as JSON for the same kind of data interchange purposes.
As of 2025, over 10,000 companies have set or committed to set science-based climate targets validated by SBTi.
ISO 9846, Solar energy -- Calibration of a pyranometer using a pyrheliometer, is the ISO standard for the calibration of a pyranometer using a pyrheliometer.
Decoding begins at the corner with three black pixels, and proceeds clockwise to the corners with two, one, and zero black pixels.
It is the international standard (ISO 21127:2023) for the controlled exchange of cultural heritage information.
Before the widespread adoption of shock-resistant balance pivots in the 1950s, broken balance wheel staffs were a common cause of watch repairs.
4 ISO/IEC 8859-5:1999 Part 5: Latin/Cyrillic alphabet ISO/IEC 8859-6:1999 Part 6: Latin/Arabic alphabet ISO/IEC 8859-7:2003 Part 7: Latin/Greek alphabet ISO/IEC 8859-8:1999 Part 8: Latin/Hebrew alphabet ISO/IEC 8859-9:1999 Part 9: Latin alphabet No.
There must be a binding tax policy that explicitly shuns tax avoidance and the artificial use of tax havens, and no recent evidence of contradicting activities.
In each series of sizes (for example, series A), the largest size is numbered 0 (so in this case A0), and each successive size (A1, A2, etc.) has half the area of the preceding sheet and can be cut by halving the length of the preceding size sheet.
Unofficial or indirect support Microsoft Windows – A 3rd-party Windows Imaging Component (WIC) plugin adds viewing to File Explorer, Microsoft Photos, Windows Photo Viewer, and thumbnails, and aware apps.
To implement the CLI standard requires conformance to one of the supported and defined profiles of the standard, the minimum of which is the kernel profile.
With the active participation and financial contribution of its members Global Compact Bulgaria organized numerous initiatives related to environment, health, education and youth.
KWP2000 can be implemented on CAN using just the service layer and session layer (no header specifying length, source and target addresses is used and no checksum is used); or using all layers (header and checksum are encapsulated within a CAN frame).
A more successful reduction in red tape took place in the province of British Columbia, Canada, following a 2001 election promise to reduce the regulatory burden by 33%.
Sahu, and Robert A Crane, authors of Practicing Financial Planning for Professionals do not define what a financial plan is, but merely defer to the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards' definition of 'financial planning'.
The benefit corporation legislation ensures that a director is required to consider other public benefits in addition to profit, preventing shareholders from using a drop in stock value as evidence for dismissal or a lawsuit against the corporation.
Starting on 1981 the ISO 5127 was published as a series of documents (ISO 5127-1:1983, ISO 5127-2:1983, ISO 5127-3:1988, ISO 5127-3a:1981, ISO 5127-6:1983, ISO 5127-11:1987).
The ISO standard provides a registered number for pictograms that have officially been made part of the ISO 7010 standard.
Investors provide up-front capital to fund these programs and receive a prearranged amount of money (including the principal plus some financial return) if performance results are achieved.
Advantages Reasons to use PNG: Portability: Transmission is independent of the software and hardware platform.
The exposure of these refinanced loans to "bad credit" (Type II) decisions (particularly in the banking sector, unscrupulous lending or the adverse selection of credits) is hedged against by the sellers of the same, or the re-structurers of the same.
The US Committee continued as the main driver of the standard's development through the WD, CD, DIS and FDIS Phases of ISO standards development, with review, comment and balloting by the member bodies of ISO TC 171.
Examples: "13" = permanent upper right, 3rd tooth (canine / cuspid) "32" = permanent lower left, 2nd tooth (lateral incisor) See also Dental notation Universal numbering system Palmer notation References External links Dr.Bunn page on dental notations.
They argue that the reputational benefits that CSR companies receive (cited above as a benefit to the corporation) demonstrate the hypocrisy of the approach.
Corporate digital responsibility (CDR) refers to a German and French framework of practices, policies, and behaviors through which organizations responsibly manage their use of data and digital technologies across social, economic, technical, and environmental dimensions.
The ISO 15706-2 is the ISO standard, an extension to the existing 2002 published standard ISO 15706:2002.
Each Scene lists the items of text and graphics to be presented and can contain blocks of procedural code which are executed in response to one of a predefined set of events such as keys being pressed, timers firing or content being successfully loaded into memory.
The MTTF can be calculated according to: MTTF = 1 λ [ h o u r s ] {\displaystyle {\text{MTTF}}={\frac {1}{\lambda }}[hours]\!} where λ is the failure rate for the component.
The ISO 13490 standard is an extension to the ISO 9660 format that adds support for multiple sessions on a disc.
When writing a WFS, you must implement the following operations: GetCapabilities - this queries the WFS service to determine available options.
This is the general case for many health hazards where the mechanism of injury is toxicity or repetitive injury, particularly where the effect is cumulative.
Following a study about the most popular JPEG quality on the Web, developers paid special attention to the range with negligible or no perceived loss, and the default settings were adjusted accordingly.
The purpose of the standard is to avoid counterfeited products and ensure that the required taxes have been paid for, for example on items as tobacco and alcohol.
South Africa The responsibility of the accountant general is to promote and enforce effective management in respect of revenue expenditure, assets and liabilities of institutions in all three spheres of Government.
OTC Markets Group and the Consolidated Quotation System MLTF: Multilateral Trading Facility OTFS: Organised Trading Facility RMKT: Regulated Market, e.g.
Unlike greenwashing, in which firms exaggerate or fabricate environmental claims, greenhushing occurs when organizations implement genuine sustainability measures but choose not to disclose them publicly.
This resulted in difficulties in estimating individual corporation's amount of risk exposure, analyzing risks across the market, and resolving the failing financial institutions.
A technical specification intended for developers implementing PDF writing and processing software, PDF/UA provides definitive terms and requirements for accessibility in PDF documents and applications.
Initially information was distributed via CD-ROMs and this was later replaced by distribution over the internet.
In March 2017, The Honest Company announced that Nick Vlahos would replace Brian Lee as chief executive officer.
The second edition of ISO 22313 published in 2020, cancels and replaces the first edition, ISO 22313:2012, which has been withdrawn.
The norm seeks to provide a universally recognized paradigm for practitioners and companies employing material flow cost accounting.
Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) A compatibility layer for running Linux binary executables natively on Windows 10 and 11 using a Linux image such as Ubuntu, Debian, or OpenSUSE among others, acting as an upgrade and replacement for Windows Services for UNIX.
In particular, Buneman and Silvello proposed a rule-based system to automatically create citation snippets to be used as references when citing XML data; a case study is based on EAD.
Basic Formal Ontology (BFO) is a top-level ontology developed by Barry Smith and colleagues to promote interoperability among domain ontologies.
The Standard Libraries A set of libraries providing many common functions, such as file reading and writing.
For interoperability between platforms, especially if bidirectional scripts are used, it is not enough to support ISO/IEC 10646; Unicode must be implemented.
Manufacturing Message Specification (MMS) is an international standard (ISO 9506) dealing with messaging systems for transferring real time process data and supervisory control information between networked devices or computer applications.
In 1993, the Jaws raster image processor from Global Graphics became the first shipping prepress RIP that interpreted PDF natively without conversion to another format.
The current (2000) edition incorporates the now withdrawn standard ISO 1048 on identification of exposed roll films.
In telecommunication, a longitudinal redundancy check (LRC), or horizontal redundancy check, is a form of redundancy check that is applied independently to each of a parallel group of bit streams.
Although Complex Cards were developed since the inception of the smart card industry, they only reached maturity after 2010.
End event Represents the result of a process; indicated by a single thick or bold border, and can only Throw, so is shown with a solid icon.
The PAS gave guidance and a 28-point requirements checklist of good practices in physical asset management; typically this was relevant to gas, electricity and water utilities, road, air and rail transport systems, public facilities, process, manufacturing, and natural resource industries.
Proceedings of 29th International-Business-Information-Management-Association Conference, Vienna, Austria, May 3–4, 2017.
Duer holds an undergraduate degree in business administration and a graduate degree in management from the University of Aarhus.
DevSpecs describe the way the devices are modelled in the network representation and define requirements for the interaction of provider and consumer via SDC, if necessary.
History In 1986, Fujitsu, Iwanami Shoten, Sony and Dai Nippon Printing worked together to publish a new CD-ROM edition of Kōjien.
ISO 5127 is an international standard in which terms and definitions for selected concepts relevant to the field of information and documentation are presented.
The aim of ISO 22313 is to explain and clarify the meaning and purpose of the requirements stated in ISO 22301.
Especially in the leveraged buyouts of the 1980s in which debt-to-equity ratios often exceeded 9 to 1, defaults occurred at notable levels.
ISO 22313:2020, Security and resilience - Business continuity management systems – Guidance to the use of ISO 22301, is an international standard developed by technical committee ISO/TC 292 Security and resilience.
Innovation management is the subject of ISO 56000 (formerly 50500) series standards being developed by ISO TC 279.
This is constituted as an informal group of quality management system (QMS) experts, auditors, and practitioners, drawn from the ISO Technical Committee 176 Quality Management and Quality Assurance (ISO/TC 176) and the International Accreditation Forum (IAF).
And even though it is a separate standard, the term Unicode is used just as often, informally, when discussing the UCS.
A requirement has been proposed under which the largest companies would be required to publish a distribution policy statement covering dividend distribution.
When ASMO 449 (or some variant of it) is allocated to the upper part of the 8-bit character set, it has Arabic digits.
It also specifies requirements for the monitoring of a cleanroom or clean zone (installation) to provide evidence of its continued compliance with ISO 14644-1 for the designated classification of airborne particulate cleanliness.
The first is an uneditable format that is logically similar to Adobe Systems PDF that is in common use today.
It fully addresses the filename, POSIX attribute, and multibyte character issues that were not handled by ISO 9660.
See also List of ISO standards International Organization for Standardization External links ISO 22398 — Societal security – Guidelines for exercises ISO TC 292 — Security and resilience ISO 22398 Archived 2020-09-22 at the Wayback Machine at www.isotc292online.org == References ==
The official title of ISO 13584 is Industrial automation systems and integration - Parts library, with the acronym PLIB.
ISO and PMI segregate project processes into five process groups with some minor variances in labeling.
Overview Sheba is a national standard defined within the framework of the global IBAN standard with the aim of unifying bank accounts.
Rather than being a continuous range of bytes in the file, each subfile is a data structure whose top-level entity is called an image file directory (IFD).
The Market Identifier Code (MIC) (ISO 10383) is a unique identification code used to identify securities trading exchanges, regulated and non-regulated trading markets.
References Bibliography Bickford, John H.; Nassar, Sayed (1998), Handbook of bolts and bolted joints, CRC Press, ISBN 978-0-8247-9977-9.
Part 2 Part 2 is a SQL binding to Part 1, providing a translation of the interface to non-object-oriented environments.
Animated (multi-frame) images do not perform advanced inter-frame prediction, though some rudimentary inter-frame coding tools are available: Frames can be smaller than the full canvas size, leaving other pixels untouched.
Part 1 of the standard specifies the requirements that must be met if an ontology is to be classified as a top-level ontology by the standard.
It produces beef cattle which are pasture raised and grain finished before sale to Australian meat processors, who onsell beef to domestic and international customers.
However, they mainly restrict the IEEE 11073 SDC Core standards to enable safe and interoperable medical device systems and to facilitate the approval process.
Ind erst and Shaffer (2009) found that banning prices would reduce allocation efficiency and lead to higher wholesale prices for all enterprises.
Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH) SPARQL Firewall information The registered network port number for Z39.50 is 210.
Regardless of size, these classification schemes exist to help drive discovery and correction of nonconformities (and defects).
For example, in 2006 senior partners at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) called for convergence to be "shelved indefinitely" in a draft paper, calling for the IASB to focus instead on improving its own set of standards.
The CFI is attributed to a financial instrument at the time when the financial instrument is issued and when it is allocated an International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) by the respective national numbering agency (NNA).
126 cameras have a film-advance mechanism that relies on one edge perforation per image, and 35mm camera film has eight perforations per image, on both edges of the film.
federal agencies such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration have used a simple three-tier system for quality requirements of government-acquired supplies and services: minor, major, and critical nonconformance.
Applies to: testing laboratories, including those providing a calibration service; suppliers of products or services; other organizations where measurement is used to demonstrate compliance with specified requirements.
The full-stops were inserted by Symbian's Legal department to ensure there were no trademark or copyright infringements.
Certification A high-quality open source compliance program can be certified as compliant with ISO/IEC 5230 by a number of accredited registrars worldwide.
Excluded: Sector specific security projects developed in other relevant ISO committees and projects developed in ISO/TC 262 and ISO/PC 278.
Hence since the security is self-liquidating, once all mortgages in the MBS's are paid, the investment is completed.
SHORTREF Tags can be replaced with delimiter strings, for a terser markup, via the SHORTREF feature.
Comparison with corporate social responsibility Leading scholars in the field of social innovation, such as Stephen Sinclair, Neil McHugh, and Michael Roy, question the need for social finance given the extensive existing frameworks that govern corporate social responsibility in capital markets.
References External links National Association of Socially Responsible Organizations Catalyst Fund Management and Research
One method is a PIN mailer, an envelope designed so that it can be printed without the PIN being visible (even at printing time) until the envelope is opened.
These principles are intended to be used in specifications, design and evaluation of dialogues for office work with visual display terminals (VDTs).
In 2000, Ibbotson and Kaplan used five asset classes in their study "Does Asset Allocation Policy Explain 40, 90, or 100 Percent of Performance?".
<head> <meta name="DC.title" content="Services to Government" > <meta name="DC.date" content="1997-07" > </head> The vocabulary could be used in any metadata serialization including key/value pairs and XML.
O-rings are one of the most common seals used in machine design because they are inexpensive, easy to make, reliable, and have simple mounting requirements.
VSI Pascal for OpenVMS (formerly HP Pascal for OpenVMS, Compaq Pascal, DEC Pascal, VAX Pascal and originally VAX-11 Pascal) is a Pascal compiler that runs on OpenVMS systems.
ISO/TC 211 is a standard technical committee formed within ISO, tasked with covering the areas of digital geographic information (such as used by geographic information systems) and geomatics.
The conclusion of the study was that replacing active choices with simple asset classes worked just as well as, if not even better than, professional pension managers.
History National equivalent standards ISO/IEC 27002 has directly equivalent national standards in several countries.
Types Two types of threads are distinguished: Parallel (straight) threads, British Standard Pipe Parallel thread (BSPP; originally also known as British Standard Pipe Fitting thread/BSPF and British Standard Pipe Mechanical thread/BSPM), which have a constant diameter; denoted by the letter G.
If the image height is not evenly divisible by the number of rows in the strip, the last strip may contain fewer rows.
The UN Global Compact is the world's largest corporate sustainability and corporate social responsibility initiative, with more than 20,000 corporate participants and other stakeholders in over 167 countries.
In this ISO standard, the success of a translation project lies in the cooperation between clients and contractors, rather than completely a responsibility of the contractors.
C++03 was primarily a bug fix release for the implementers to ensure greater consistency and portability.
These extensions are consistent with the map and function types present in modern programming languages such as Python and Swift.
15686 for service life planning is being prepared by Technical Committee ISO/TC 59, Building construction - Subcommittee SC 14, Design life.
Structurally, the two legal traditions constitute a well-defined bundle of lawmaking and adjudication institutions and operate in quite different ways [Merryman 1969, p.
The latter two structures allow investors to benefit from a larger pool of loans made over time rather than one static pool.
An Axios survey, conducted from 5 March 2020 to 9 March, found that 62% of Republican supporters believed that the outbreak's coverage by media is exaggerated, compared to 31% of Democratic supporters and 35% of independents.
Research published in 2006 examined the data held by the Compensation Recovery Unit, a government agency which enabled the state to recover from tort damages any social security benefits paid as a result of an accident or disease.
The music video was nominated for the "Best Video with a Message" award at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards, but lost to Born This Way by Lady Gaga.
For instance, the study revealed that Caucasians have higher face-ism than blacks across different media types.
"A Boy and a Priest" is the second episode of the twenty-second season of the American animated television series South Park.
In 2025, Monster High was nominated for a GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Children's Programming in 2025.
As newspaper distribution rates drop, news outlets rely heavily on social media editors to promote news items.
Studies Anti-fan studies include a focus on specific communities of practice and their relationship to the media texts and fans actively marginalizing or discrediting other fans solely on basis of identity (sex, race, etc.).
The play was translated by Vivian Cox with Bernard Miles, and staged at the London West End Mermaid Theatre in 1977 with Nigel Hawthorne and Dai Bradley in the key roles.
Khilad al-Qahtani is also a symbol for Ajnad, as he produced more than 10 nasheeds which is frequently used by IS media centers, as well as getting the honor of being mentioned by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi in an interview with Al-Furqan Media Production.
As of December 2025, the organization listed approximately 570 members, including those on its advisory board.
He pointed out that NCR is a member of the Catholic Press Association of the United States and Canada, whose honorary president is Bishop John Charles Wester, who also serves as the chairman of the Committee of Communications of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops.
On November 29, 2024, it became Roan's first song to reach one billion streams on Spotify, which Roan described as "cuckoo loco" on social media.
"Good Luck, Babe!" has also been covered by various acts including Muna, Franz Ferdinand, the Jonas Brothers, Cxloe, Girl in Red, Sondre Lerche, the cast of Hamilton, Rose Cousins, and Postmodern Jukebox.
After the merger, GLAAD received the Ad Library, training resources, online materials, and the company's name.
The film details the disastrous lives of the four girls whilst they are inmates, portraying their harsh daily regimen and their squalid living conditions at the laundries.
Analysis Ruthie Blum wrote in 2008 that Richard Landes's claims, which she calls "pretty harsh", have led to him being labeled as a right-wing conspiracy theorist in certain circles.
In 2013, Bishop Robert Finn of Kansas City, Missouri, wrote a column in his diocesan newspaper discussing Helmsing's condemnation of NCR.
Studio Responsibility Index In August 2013, GLAAD launched its first annual Studio Responsibility Index, which indexes "the quantity, quality and diversity of images of LGBTQ people in films released by six major motion picture studios".
On October 21, 2016, it was announced that the production was postponed until the 2017-18 season due to scheduling conflicts with Gyllenhaal.
In addition, the Betty Boop series was known for its use of jokes that would eventually be considered taboo following the enforcement of the Hays Code, including the use of nudity.
Media companies in the United Kingdom produce a diverse range of types of articles regarding climate change, evident when looking at The Guardian, The Observer, The Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday, Sunday Telegraph, The Times and Sunday Times.
Alexandr Skobov was stabbed in July 2014 after writing an article for Grani.ru criticising the ideology of the self-declared Federal State of Novorossiya.
They ascertain that there are no children in the asylum; the children's wing has been closed since the war.
The study also found that "individual choice," or confirmation bias, likewise affected what gets filtered out of News Feeds.
The Evangelischer Pressedienst made its mission the fight against the "lying press" which it considered to be the "strongest weapon of the enemy".
Red tops The term "red tops" refers to British tabloids with red mastheads, such as The Sun, the Daily Star, the Daily Mirror, News of the World, and the Daily Record.
After being appalled by the brutal, authoritarian regime of the school, particularly with the cruel Brother John (Glen), who believes in discipline through physical punishment, and the more complex, conflicted Brother Mac (Warren), he fights to liberate the boys from their oppressors.
Academia and the scientific community have reached consensus in favor of the use of the term male infertility crisis, citing it as necessary to prompt preventative action to remedy the issue in the present time before it affects future generations on a greater scale.
Background The single was the second time Hamasaki had released an official single digitally after "Together When..." (2007), the leading song from her album Guilty.
This awareness can be shown through dialogue, narration, actions, or visual imagery, such as reading an article about climate change or discussing extreme weather events.
From a purely etymological viewpoint, Islamophobia ought to mean "fear of Islam"—yet the inventors, promoters and users of this word deploy it to denounce hatred of Muslims.
Except for those selected by the Syrian government, journalists have been banned from reporting in Syria.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, some restaurants have faced review bombs from the anti-vaccination community for enforcing vaccine passport rules.
A reverse review bomb may also be initiated by users to try to counter generally negative reviews from critics.
The Netflix animated television series Bojack Horseman has received acclaim from the community for its portrayal and discussion of asexual topics through the character of Todd Chavez, a main character, who comes out as asexual in the season 3 finale.
In addition to media monitoring by the juries, GLAAD issues a "Call for Entries", inviting media outlets to submit their work for consideration, however, GLAAD may nominate a mainstream media project even if it is not submitted as part of the call for entries.
On the positive side, this may create a more pluralistic form of public debate; on the negative side, greater access to information may lead to selective exposure to ideologically supportive channels.
Some research has shown that language restrictions in systematic reviews can change the results of the review and in other cases, authors have not found that such a bias exists.
In 2018, Eyal Weizman, whose work with Forensic Architecture has been called "Pallywood" in Israel, replied that "the bastards' last line of defence is to call it 'fake news'.
In news reporting, source bias effects how news organizations do news gathering in whom they choose to talk, and in news analysis, what they imply in the way they arrange facts collected.
Supply-driven bias Tuchman's Law suggests how people overestimate the risk from dangers that are disproportionately discussed in media.
Gerbner held a database of more than 3,000 television programs and 35,000 characters which documented the trends in television content and how these changes affect viewers' perceptions of the world.
Subsequent implementation In February 2015, the Bath Comedy Festival announced that it would be the UK's first F-rated comedy festival, with performers including Viv Groskop and Helen Lederer.
Harper suggested that this may be because the self-published nature of webcomics form a lower barrier to entry, while traditional mediums such as comic books are gatekept by cisgender men, though he also suggested that this disparity may just be a difference in interest between the groups.
Though much of the blog's commentary is critical, it is not exclusively so: Nelly Furtado, for example, has been praised for her respectful engagement with Native hoop and shawl dancers.
However, some might find the free features limiting and get quickly frustrated by features that are locked behind a paywall." References Bibliography Matthies, Brad (January 2022).
The Celluloid Closet book was prefigured by a live lecture/film clip presentation of the same name, which Russo first presented in 1972 and would go on to deliver at colleges, universities, and small cinemas.
In an effort to streamline the process, some providers such as Verizon allowed for all local calls in the area of the attacks to be free for some 4,000 payphones.
In March 2006, General George Casey, the Army's second in command, indicated that this practice, which did not "violate US law or Pentagon guidelines," would continue.
The transformation of the newspaper produced a medium requiring a fairly sophisticated team of many different kinds of laborers.
Flynn has been characterized as portraying as a "wholesome dad" in his editorials and on social media, while Condon "plays the cynical grump".
Michael Hastings suggested that the Smith-Mundt Modernization Act "would open the door to Pentagon propaganda of U.S.
They continue by stating that some Iranian filmmakers deliberately shape representations either to appeal to Western audiences or promote specific political agendas.
In parallel, wealthy elites and corporations may use ownership or advertising leverage to align editorial policy with their political or economic interests.
Curtis Puryeara also explains how virality is a key factor in how users classify potential threats through the Social Amplification Model of Moral Panics on Social Media.
Additionally, Shawn Pyfrom would play Andrew Van de Kamp in the ABC series Desperate Housewives which aired from 2005 to 2006.
Lesbian characters also appeared in The Goode Family, Programming blocks There are various programming blocks for broadcast television which cater to adult animation.
Rather than launching a lawsuit that directly challenges the regulations, the company is appealing the rules as an illegal change to their existing licenses.
She writes about her husband Steve's job promotion, her daughter Frankie's art, and her son Nick's early admission to Harvard University.
A sasaeng fan incident involving the band Sanulrim's lead vocalist, Kim Changwan, moved the government to act.
Governor Helen places Nikki Wade, a long-term inmate, on an enhanced regime as incentive to win an appeal.
Hillary Clinton became subject to enormous media interest specifically regarding her gender and it affected her campaign and electability in a negative way.
Constitutions, in some cases, are more focused on disclosure of information to the government or other public body than disclosure directly to the citizens.
Although data packets are homogeneous with respect to switching and transmission treatment, type, source, and destination can be revealed and data packets be handled differently if a network operator prefers to do so.
Virgins are commonly depicted as "plucky heroines and sacrificial offerings, repressed psychos, and misunderstood monsters" as McDonald says.
For example, in a study conducted in 2016, a sample of college students were assigned at random to play either a violent or non-violent video game for 20 minutes.
Standard journalistic practice involves repeating claims made by public figures or quoting them directly, but when the public figure is spreading misinformation or disinformation, repetition of the claims can amplify them and increase their harm.
When Souplier forms a relationship with a fellow student, the jealous priest vies for his attention, yielding tragic results.
Others like Abu Ghuraba' al-Yamani, Abu Bara' al-Madani, Nimr al-Muhajir, Abu Usamah At-Tunisi and others are also IS members that emigrated and joined the organization; though their career is not as famed as other munshids.
Its broadcast on RTÉ Television led to the setting up of the Murphy Commission of Investigation into clerical abuse in the Dublin Archdiocese which published the Murphy Report in 2009.
and the United Kingdom, often under "coded" titles such as Odd Girl Out, The Evil Friendship by Vin Packer and The Beebo Brinker Chronicles by Ann Bannon.
Many journalists and scholars accept the philosophical idea of pure "objectivity" as being impossible to achieve, but still strive to minimize bias in their work.
This is the basis of political party formation and engages in the ongoing attempt to normalise these views within the wider population with little recognition of different beliefs outside the party.
Commercially, "Make It Stop (September's Children)" reached several music charts, peaking at number eight on the Billboard Hot Rock Songs chart, number twelve on the Czech Republic Modern Rock chart, and number twenty-nine on the Mexico Ingles Airplay chart.
It is presented to individuals in the media and entertainment industries who through their work have increased the visibility and understanding of the LGBT community.
Dearbhail Lynch as Eileen Murphy Carleen Melaugh as Sister Maria Louise Production Clarke stated in an interview that she was wanted to publicise the horrors of the Magdalene Laundries in Ireland, saying: "I had my son when I was 17, which was the year after the last Magdalene Laundry closed.
He suggests that objectivity makes us passive recipients of news, rather than aggressive analyzers and critics of it.
Overstock critics In January 2007, it was revealed that an anonymous website that attacked critics of Overstock.com, including media figures and private citizens on message boards, was operated by an official of Overstock.com.
Despite that, a certain witch named Madame Dronya comes along with her assistant Luca and volunteers to explore the labyrinth.
While major news outlets often regulate what they post, they still show the aftermath of traumatic events on their websites and in their newspapers.
In 2019, the play was performed with TimeLine Theatre in Chicago under the direction of Mechelle Moe.
Investigating the Church Berry achieved national prominence as the first journalist to uncover the sexual abuse scandal in the Catholic Church in articles from Lafayette, Louisiana, for National Catholic Reporter and The Times of Acadiana.
The show has a book by Diablo Cody, with direction by Diane Paulus, choreography by Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui, set design by Riccardo Hernandez, costume design by Emily Rebholz, lighting design by Justin Townsend, and video design by Finn Ross.
Only joint-stock companies have to disclose information to the trade registry, under the Turkish Commercial Code No.
He found that crime reporting depicted blacks as more dangerous—at the same time that the employment of black journalists may have led viewers to believe racism was no longer significant.
This idea is rooted in the concept of reciprocity, where negative energy or behavior can be mirrored and reciprocated by those who encounter it.
The Global Gay documentary received the "Grand Prix" by the World Organization Against Torture, OMCT, in Geneva, 2014.
Gay community groups include the Human Rights Campaign, the Gay Lesbian Straight Education Network (GLSEN), and also GLAAD, pre-merger.
Snyder stated that "Ukraine is now the site of the largest and most important free media in the Russian language, since all important media in Ukraine appear in Russian, and since freedom of speech prevails.
On social media, people are encouraged to wear purple or go purple online in order to stand united against bullying.
Multiple Russian news outlets have been criticized for producing unsubstantiated reports of atrocities.
"Cardinal Secrets" is a 2002 Prime Time special produced by Mary Raftery and reported on by Mick Peelo.
Track listing Digital download "Only Time Makes It Human" – 3:24 Digital download – remix EP "Only Time Makes It Human" (Kitty Cash remix) – 3:08 "Only Time Makes It Human" (Yoseppi remix) – 3:42 "Only Time Makes It Human" (The Blessed Madonna remix) – 3:43 Personnel Credits adapted from Tidal.
Source bias is the tendency to select information sources to support a confirmation bias or negativity bias on a particular set of beliefs or values.
Awards Paulson won a number of awards which include: In 2003, he shared in the Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of child abuse affairs in the archdiocese of Boston.
This percentage was significantly larger than the number of successful women creating print comics at the time, and the number may have been even higher, as a certain percentage of contributors were unknown.
The article, largely a polemic against the welfare state, carried the sub-heading: "We may laugh at ludicrous court cases in America, but the compensation culture began in Britain and is costing us dear [sic]".
Female gaze Mary Ann Doane suggests that a woman can only actively participate in the gaze when it is "simultaneous with her own victimization." The woman's gaze is turned into "masochistic fantasy." As soon as the woman feels as if she has power and tries to act on it, she is punished.
He is known for his groundbreaking reporting on the child sexual abuse crisis in the priesthood of the Catholic Church, and as a cultural critic and New Orleans historian.
According to a 2022 study by the Mozilla Foundation, users have little power to keep unsolicited videos out of their suggested recommended content.
The Commercial Closet Association (CCA) was a New York City based non-profit organization, founded in 2001 to provide "training and best practices on the representations of" the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBTQ+) community in advertising.
Subsequent studies have generated consistent findings and thus helped confirm the pervasive presence of face-ism.
In 2007, reacting to concerns on media concentration and its repercussion on pluralism and freedom of expression in the EU member states raised by the European Parliament and by NGOs, the European Commission launched a new three-phase plan on media pluralism.
The video declares itself in remembrance of the Minab school attack and showcases Iran attacking various of its neighbours and American-Israeli outposts.
Garcia Bernal and Almodóvar had different ideas on the type of 'inner transvestite' in terms of Bernal's performance.
Publication of the images greatly affected both domestic and international perceptions and sparked an international media frenzy.
While the term "post-truth" had no dictionary entry before Oxford Dictionaries' entry in 2016, the Oxford entry was inspired by the outcomes of the Brexit referendum and the 2016 U.S.
The production was directed and designed by John Sowle, with costumes by Silvia Jahnsons and incidental music composed by Jules Langert, and featured Robert J.
A question that White poses and says should be considered in this case study is, "Does the category really enter into the choice?" He concludes that as Mr.
The phenomenon was proposed and experimentally studied in 1985 by Robert Vallone, Lee Ross and Mark Lepper.
A widely cited public opinion study documented a correlation between news source and certain misconceptions about the Iraq War.
According to his profile at Psychology Today's website, where Plante operates a blog, he has been featured in media outlets that include Time Magazine, CNN, NBC Nightly News, the PBS NewsHour, New York Times, USA Today, BBC, and National Public Radio.
At Newfest 2007, Indian filmmaker Ashish Sawhny's Happy Hookers, about three male sex workers in India, and Jeff Maccubin's "Into It", about two hustlers dealing with drugs and relationships, premiered.
Morrison was convicted of criminal libel in one instance, but his scandal sheet may have contributed to several politicians losing their elections.
She-Ra and the Princesses of Power showrunner ND Stevenson thanked Steven Universe creator Rebecca Sugar for "blazing the trail" for queer representation in children's animation.
In May 2017 a contest was organized to invite creatives to design their own banners, posters, videos and signs to celebrate diversity & creativity.
The following season, the show revealed the male character Runaan to be in a relationship with another male character, Ethari.
As frustration, flirtation and self-confidence ooze from every syllable of Roan's impeccable delivery, it's no wonder why audiences are clamoring for more of the superstar's exceptional artistry".
Awards Some Cartoon Network animated series, with LGBTQ representation, have been nominated for awards.
On 15 January 1987, Judge Luiz Fux provided TV Aratu an injunction on TV Bahia's retransmission of the Rede Globo programming, however, it was dismissed 6 days later.
The case studies (include case studies) for this project demonstrate that what can be shown is often decided in concern with political agents.
The original lead actor, Neil Flanagan, won an Obie Award for his portrayal of protagonist Leslie Bright.
For example: In 2002, the Monitor on Psychology, sent to all members of the American Psychological Association, covered Plante's ideas about how psychologists might help resolve the crisis in the Roman Catholic Church.
So you have these people stuck in the middle who have this double edged prejudice." With about 10,000 respondents the survey exhibited a reverse bell curve of gamer sexuality, with most people identifying as either completely heterosexual or homosexual.
As of October 2025, Kelly was included on a list of "accredited assistants" for the Danish MEP Anders Vistisen.
The Guardian has credited her with leading a successful campaign against stereotypical imagery created by Paul Frank Industries: the company later invited Keene and other experts to help design new product lines working with Native artists.
Members of the public are motivated to keep informed on these events, leading to high readership for the stories, feeding the spiral.
States of Fear is a documentary series produced by Mary Raftery and broadcast on the Irish television channel Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ) between April and May 1999.
We have way more people who are educated about trans folks, but there’s also been a rigorous misinformation media machine," further describing that "The backlash is ferocious.
She moves through her day backward, starting with unpacking groceries at home, getting her painkillers in the alley, keeping up appearances with other school moms, and ending with her running out of pills at the beginning of the day ("Smiling").
For example, through fact-checking, this is of particular importance on social media given the recent emergence of generative AI technology, to prevent the dissemination of dis- and misinformation.
Natalie Sofia agreed, arguing that chart-topping "queer anthems" are imbued with subtext, blurring the lines between homosexual and heterosexual relationships at the expense of LGBTQ themes.
anti-fans Anti-fans contrast with sasaeng fans in that their main goal is to see the ultimate failure of certain idols or groups.
Sister Bridget relishes the money the business receives and it is suggested that little of it is distributed appropriately.
Once tensions started de-escalating, the media coverage shifted to comparisons being made between "India and Pakistan" and "Narendra Modi and Imran Khan" in terms of who won the "perception battle".
While the player travels through different Dungeons, they see fragments of Madame Dronya's past and learns that they are supposed to find three special keys that will open the gate to the realm of the dead, where the deceased can potentially be revived.
Production history Cardboard Piano premiered on March 25, 2016 Humana Festival of New American Plays in Louisville, Kentucky.
Martina di Licosa of the Columbia Journalism Review said that these promoters span political beliefs, from left-wing commentator Adam Conover to far-right figures.
The echo chambers function by circulating existing views without encountering opposing views, potentially leading to three cognitive biases: correlation neglect, selection bias and confirmation bias.
Princeton, Kate, and Nicky dream of returning to happier times ("I Wish I Could Go Back to College").
The Images in Advertising Awards were sponsored by ad agencies including Lowe Worldwide, Arnold Worldwide, Interpublic Group, SSH+K, and others.
The world premiere production of Jagged Little Pill opened on May 5, 2018, and played through July 15.
In a study of adverse drug events submitted to Scandinavian drug licensing authorities, reports for published studies were less likely than unpublished studies to record adverse events (for example, 56 vs 77% respectively for Finnish trials involving psychotropic drugs).
Some commentators pointed out the irony of the BBC making the documentary when they had previously employed sexual abusers including Jimmy Savile and Rolf Harris.
The test helps avoid gender bias in science reporting similarly to various tests that focus on under-representation of marginalized groups in different career fields.
In May 2020, South Australia made a change to their Evidence Act which now allows the media to publish identifying information about a defendant after the accused person’s first court appearance.
The world premiere of the play was directed by Victoria Espinosa on 15 February 1978 at the University of Puerto Rico.
In Australia, the Deputy Prime Minister, Tim Fischer, condemned the paparazzi for their overzealous coverage of Diana.
Individuals who participate in echo chambers often do so because they feel more confident that their opinions will be more readily accepted by others in the echo chamber.
However, information about minor suspects or victims is strictly protected under Russian law (Federal Law No.
Following the review bombing of The Last of Us Part II in July 2020, Metacritic added a 36-hour delay for user reviews to be added for a newly released game, with users given the message "Please spend some time playing the game" during this period.
He stated that Mariya Takeuchi and her husband Tatsuro Yamashita, who also belong to the company, agreed with the company's policy.
According to a Pew Research study, 74% of Facebook users did not know that list existed until they were directed towards that page in the study.
Two of the Globe reporters depicted in the film, Walter Robinson and Sacha Pfeiffer, issued a statement in response to Dunn, firmly standing by their recollections of the day, that Dunn did "his best to frame a story in the most favorable way possible for the institution he is representing.
Fenner and Sylvia disagree with the decision but congratulate themselves on their skills ("Jailcraft").
A takeover took place in October 26, 2016 for the Koza-Ipek Media Group, which owned, among others, Bugun and Millet dailies and Cihan News Agency.
If the source seems to be overly positive and to omit negative details (or vice versa), if it fails to mention information that you are aware of, or if the source's information is clearly incorrect, then you can assume that it is written from a biased point of view.
Writing and production The music of the song was written by her musical collaborator Tim Wellard, who first worked with Hamasaki on the song "Brillante" from her extended play Five (2011), and also wrote the songs "Party Queen", "The Next Love" and "Eyes, Smoke, Magic" for Party Queen.
Sheridan quoted Tim Groeling as cautioning that while bias is important, charts are not something most consumers would navigate.
The film detailed abuse suffered by children between the 1930s and 1970s in the state childcare system of Ireland, primarily in the Reformatory and Industrial Schools.
She clarified in November 2013 that to be pansexual, in her words, means to "want love" and to have "a connection with anyone you can find it with." She later said that she is "whatever I am when I am it" when asked if she was gay and may have dated Ireland Baldwin in the past.
Despite increasing amounts of sexual media, US government statistic state that teens have delayed the onset of sexual intercourse in recent years.
Political bias ratings are U.S.-centric, and are "extreme-left", "left", "left-center", "least biased", "right-center", "right", and "extreme-right".
Scott Heisel of Alternative Press noted that the song borrows the guitar opening from "Boulevard of Broken Dreams" by Green Day, but characterized the lyrics as "more pointed than Billie Joe Armstrong's have ever been".
However, in some cases, investigations later found that long-established journalistic checks and balances in the newsrooms failed.
After Russo's death in 1990, The Celluloid Closet book was adapted into a 1995 documentary film of the same name directed by Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman.
The film repeatedly uses buzz words such as 'echo chambers' and 'fake news' to prove psychological manipulation on social media, therefore leading to political manipulation.
Coverage and influence Keene observes that Native Americans are barely represented in mainstream media, and journalists often turn to non-Native sources, rather than to Natives themselves, on the rare occasions when they do cover Native issues.
The series also featured Raine Whispers, who goes by they/them pronouns and is voiced by transgender and non-binary actor Avi Roque, and is Disney's first non-binary character.
In the meantime, the president's Secret Service team pushed Ford into his waiting limousine where the Secret Service and Donald Rumsfeld lay on top of him.
In 2023, at the 2nd Children's and Family Emmy Awards, the Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur series premiere won the award for Outstanding Animated Special, with the series also nominated for the "Outstanding Children's or Young Teen Animated Series" category along with Big City Greens.
This possibly helped spur a showdown between Trump and Lockheed Martin execs that Trump claimed reduced the cost of the program, though several analysts have questioned the savings.
Media coverage related to casualty milestones, such as the 1000th, 2000th, and 3000th US soldier killed, have consistently sparked controversy among supporters and defenders of the invasion.
Demand-driven models evaluate to what extent media bias stems from companies providing consumers what they want.
In July 2015, War Is Boring and Reuters launched the War College podcast, a joint venture hosted by Reuters opinion editor Jason Fields and War Is Boring contributing editor Matthew Gault.
This can lead to users aggregating into homophilic clusters within social networks, which contributes to group polarization.
Proponents of the syndrome, coined by communications professor George Gerbner in the 1970s, assert that viewers who are exposed to violence-related content can experience increased fear, anxiety, pessimism, and a heightened state of alert in response to perceived threats.
For example: In 2011, Plante was quoted in an article in the Victorville Daily Press about scientific research on gratitude.
Clarence Delmonte Funnyé was the chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) in Harlem from 1964 to 1965.
The truth is, the glass ceiling Setoodeh posits has been constructed by his own arguments -- ones that ignore fact after fact about the direction Hollywood is headed in 2010.
In July 2017, In a Heartbeat, an animated short film produced by Ringling College of Art and Design and funded through Kickstarter, was released.
Music video The accompanying music video was directed by Marc Klasfeld and filmed at Rolling Meadows High School in Rolling Meadows, Illinois, the same school McIlrath attended as a student.
The "CNN Effect:" TV and Foreign Policy, Center for Defense Information America's Defense Monitor transcript.
Many creatives joined and submitted their work and grand prize winners got their creations showcased at Times Square's giant screens.
The title, literally translated, The City Whose Prince is a Child, is taken from Ecclesiastes 10:16: "Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!" Summary The Abbé de Pradts, a Roman Catholic priest, becomes obsessed with a junior pupil named Souplier.
The play transferred to Broadway at the Plymouth Theatre, opening on October 14, 1987 and closing on October 29, 1988 after 437 performances and seven previews.
Responsible for the low-traffic night-time reservations desk, he had ample time to produce his manuscript on the hotel's typewriter, an experience he likened to Tennessee Williams's practice of writing while working selling subway tokens from a booth.
Using hashtags, such as #michaelbrown, when they post allows for individuals to find information in a simpler manner.
John's archdiocese in Newfoundland in 1989 when he served under then-archbishop Alphonsus Liguori Penney.
The analysis considers whether or not a female character holds a position of authority, including the complete range of jobs available to humans, in particular those considered traditionally male.
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, pansexual, asexual and transgender characters have appeared in various animated series, and some animated films, on the streaming platform.
Gable, Blades, and their associated organizations have produced lesson plans for schools on how to navigate political conversations and helped create Mismatch, a platform to connect students who differ politically and geographically.
She begins to pursue her interest in choreography and begins a relationship with Pale, ending her dispassionate relationship with her longtime boyfriend.
Shell, Nikki and Justin embark on a sting to catch Fenner where Shell has to seduce him ("First Lady").
the World; where Arantxa finished in 10th place and won the Miss Congeniality title & Marina finished in 4th/3rd place.
The responses by those in authority tend to reinforce the public's fear, while the media continue to report police and other law enforcement activity, amplifying the spiral.
Producers were simply required to pay an hourly rate of $50 for airtime (equivalent to $283 in 2025), with rights to resell the airtime to advertisers.
Biography Frédéric Martel holds a PhD in social sciences and four graduate degrees, in philosophy (University of Sorbonne, Paris I), social science (Sorbonne, Paris I), political science (Panthéon, Paris II) and public law (Panthéon, Paris II).
The cast features Natalie Bassingthwaighte (Mary Jane), Tim Draxl (Steve), Emily Nkomo (Frankie), Liam Head (Nick), Max McKenna (Jo), Grace Miell (Bella) and Aydan (Phoenix).
Chávez Over the next 18 months, Taylor won four more fights, setting up a unification bout with the WBC light welterweight champion Julio César Chávez on March 17, 1990 in Las Vegas.
He also appeared on the first episode of a football rivalry series alongside Chunkz, which was aired on BBC Sport.
At 10:50 AM, the Constitutional Court issued its ruling, granting the defense's request and suspending the extradition.
Morris (Clarence Barrington), Potter LJ., in delivering the judgement of the Court of Appeal said (the citations that he quotes from the textbook are omitted): In DPP v.
He is best known for his video rants about video games and nerd culture under a fictionalized persona named Francis in addition to numerous controversies in his career.
On December 19, 2017, Williams announced that Desiree filed for divorce and had planned to for a while, but waited until he sufficiently recovered from his gastric bypass surgery which was back in August.
In November 2024, BBC News published the results of an undercover investigation which had researchers pose as a couple on a date in different venues around London which claimed to be participating in the "Ask for Angela" scheme.
Career 2016–2018: Modelling and early roles Ward began his career while he was at college when he signed with the talent agency.
music: Vietnamese jazz, Unsuk Chin, Debussy, Ravel, Fauré, Chopin, Nadia Boulanger) The Big Crying, Nederlands Dans Theatre II (Music: Rorogwela, Electricity feat.
Trevor Murdoch can take care of himself!" Later on the same day, the NWA apologized for the racist overtones of the comment and pulled down the episode to remove the remark.
Meanwhile, amidst the development of the Asian American movement, activists formed Asian Americans for Equal Employment (AAFEE) in 1974 to respond to a lack of Asian American workers on the Confucius Plaza housing project.
In May 2013, Ludwick was arrested for assault with a deadly weapon on a woman, other than his wife, who was staying with him at an inn.
The music video for the song was directed by Bow Wow's personal cameraman Rico Da Crook and was a success on 106 & Park and made it to the top of the countdown.
At this point, with the help of the play's casting director Laura Kennedy, he joined the William Morris Agency.
Lewis and his two sisters were left at a motel by their mother after their father abandoned the family.
He was given the squad number 15 with only his first name, "Ravel", listed on the back of his shirt.
In March 2018, Jackson made his theatrical debut on Broadway in Children of a Lesser God, where he played James Leeds, an unconventional teacher at a school for the deaf who gets in a conflicted professional and romantic relationship with a deaf former student, Sarah Norman (Lauren Ridloff).
In recent weeks, Thomas had searched online for phrases such as "Why did Hitler hate the Jews" multiple times, as well as "German Jewish Temples near me".
In 2011, Robertson appeared in a revival of The Hard Man, a play about the Scottish criminal Jimmy Boyle.
A week later, Atieno scored his first goal for the club in a 2–1 win away at Bristol Rovers, finishing sharply on the turn.
** – All laps led.) Complete WeatherTech SportsCar Championship results (key) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap) † Points only counted towards the Michelin Endurance Cup, and not the overall LMP2 Championship.
He bought his first motorcycle in 1978 and when he was released from prison in 1980, he founded the Hells Angels Motorcycle Club's first chapter in Denmark, located in Nørrebro, Copenhagen.
While on parole, he was prohibited from leaving New York State without the permission of his parole officer.
At Texas, Ware was involved in a hard crash on lap 168 after hitting the turn 4 wall and hitting the pit wall afterward but was treated and released from the infield care center without serious injury.
On May 31, 2019, Smith was arrested in Orlando, Florida, and charged with multiple counts including possession of marijuana and illegal firearm possession.
Excluding child abuse, each rape or sexual assault costs $5,100 in tangible losses (lost productivity, medical and mental health care, police/fire services, and property damage) and $81,400 in lost quality of life.
On 22 March, Davenport was expelled from the club following the incident which had occurred in the changing room.
He held that, as the defendant had recklessly given a false statement to PC Hill that put her in a dangerous situation with a foreseeable risk of harm through the omission, the Crown Court was incorrect to allow the motion to dismiss and allowed the appeal.
In 2004, Brand took his first one-man show, the confessional Better Now, to the Edinburgh Festival, giving an account of his heroin addiction.
The song reached number 28 in the UK singles chart and featured on the band's debut album Come Find Yourself, which achieved platinum status in the UK.
Between December 2003 and his election in May 2006, the City of Joondalup was controlled by state government appointed commissioners.
Catrin Evans QC, representing Jamal Hijazi, told the court that Robinson's comments "turned Jamal into the aggressor, and the bully into a righteous white knight".
EDT on November 2, 2018, shooting six people, resulting in the deaths of two women, Maura Binkley, 21, and Dr.
Muhammad then besieged the Banu Qaynuqa for fifteen days, after which the tribe surrendered unconditionally.
In the U.K., attempted rape under the Criminal Attempts Act 1981 is a 'sexual offence' within section 31(1) of the Criminal Justice Act 1991.
His final stop in the major leagues was with the Kansas City Cowboys but he lasted only 6 games in which he played poorly and his major league baseball career ended.
Towards the end of the race, due to a lot of front runners being involved in crashes, Ware was racing in the top ten until he crashed on the backstretch on the final lap, but was able to finish nineteenth for his first Cup Series top-twenty.
Journalists tied the two incidents together in articles identifying facial similarity between "Bernann McKinney" and Joyce Bernann McKinney.
He sometimes accompanied his mother to her job at a local nightclub, where he was first exposed to country music.
Legacy Croatia's coach, Miroslav Blažević, has taken to wearing a kepi as a lucky charm and as a gesture of support for Nivel.
In Argentina, Ask for Angela was implemented more recently in February 2023, following their entry into the International Nightlife Association (INA), which has been providing guidelines on safety and sexual assault since 2017.
It has been described as exacerbating tensions in the United States, and the case was referred to a grand jury for review; a grand jury returned indictments against Gardner on September 15 on four felony criminal charges, including manslaughter.
Episodes After filming After the cast left the Real World house, all seven of them appeared to discuss their experiences both during and since their time on the show, Fun, Sun, and Now Totally Done: The Real World Key West Reunion which premiered on August 22, 2006, and was hosted by Susie Castillo.
Somervell inherited Sorn Castle and its estate from his father Graham Somervell (born Graham Russell) in 1881, but sold it to the McIntyre family in 1907.
He was arrested multiple times, including for assault and battery with a deadly weapon, and breaking into and painting penises in his girlfriend's apartment.
He was charged with four counts of sexual penetration without consent, three counts of assault occasioning bodily harm, and one count of impeding a person's normal breathing or circulation by applying pressure on or to their neck.
He was charged in state court with five counts of attempted murder and one count of first-degree burglary, and in federal court on federal hate crime charges.
It was replaced, with prospective effect only, by sexual assault under section 3 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003.
Two weeks after the caning, Ralph Waldo Emerson described the divide the incident represented: "I do not see how a barbarous community and a civilized community can constitute one state.
The case was documented in Joyce McKinney and the Manacled Mormon, a book by Anthony Delano in 1978, who based his work on assembled Daily Mirror coverage.
Mr Justice Maurice Kay, giving the only reasoned judgment, commented that "A great deal of undesirable complexity has bedevilled our criminal law as a result of quasi theological distinctions between acts and omissions".
He caused, not realising the extent of vulnerability of babies, suffering and injuries to the boney structures of the legs and right forearm.
No verified toxicological results have been published showing the presence of known incapacitating agents in alleged victims.
Convicted Savage accepted minor battery with the beer but as to the substantive injury caused she appealed for acquittal or for a retrial to the highest court.
Cai Xiaoxin, son of the late Chinese People's Liberation Army commander Cai Changyuan, made a public offer of 10,000 yuan to anyone who beat up David Dufton, whom he called a "British bastard".
Additionally, Beierle had taught at numerous other schools as a substitute teacher, yet only briefly due to performance issues and inappropriate behavior.
Stills from this video were released by police, and locals identified the vehicle as belonging to a then-unidentified homeless woman who had been the subject of frequent police reports.
The DPP appealed this decision to the High Court to determine whether an omission did constitute sufficient actus reus for the crime to be committed.
Criminal charges and sentences After the attack, a pro-transgender advocacy group, Equality Maryland, asked the county officials to consider investigating the case to determine if it was a hate crime.
He contested again in the 2019 Indian general election from Balasore, Lok Sabha constituency as a BJP candidate, in which he defeated the Biju Janata Dal candidate and sitting MP, Rabindra Kumar Jena, by a margin of 12,956 votes.
Andrés Felipe "YungFilly" Valencia Barrientos (born 6 August 1995), known professionally as Yung Filly, is a British YouTuber and rapper.
Later that month, he was charged with three felonies — one count of second-degree assault against a police officer and two counts of attempting to disarm a peace officer — as well as two misdemeanor counts of resisting arrest in relation to the incident.
A clause in the contract between Manchester United and West Ham United ensured that the Manchester club would receive £25,000 for every game Morrison played for West Ham United.
Giggs scored his first goal of the 2006–07 season in a 2–1 victory over Watford on 26 August 2006, with his goal proving to be the winner.
By jurisdiction Australia Within Australia, the term sexual assault is used to describe a variation of sexual offences.
He is best known for his work in Royal Trux which he formed with his partner Jennifer Herrema, with whom he lived in Washington, Virginia.
The assault and domestic violence charges were dropped, but Woodburn was retried on the two criminal mischief counts, found guilty, and served 20 days in jail.
A move away from Stoke in the summer transfer window did not materialise, despite this Nzonzi insisted he is happy to carry on playing for Stoke.
In April, 2014, she married Jack Beckert and gave birth to three babies: Atlas (born in 2014), Athena Rose (born in 2015) and Aurora Mae (born in 2019).
As of November 1, that campaign had exceeded its goal of $150,000 with more than $225,000 in contributions.
Not long after I looked into his vacant eyes, he blew the save and the Marlins tied the game." Mesa reacted furiously, pledging to hit Vizquel upon every subsequent opportunity: "Even my little boy told me to get him.
Woodburn was arrested on August 2, 2018, on simple assault, domestic violence, criminal mischief, and criminal trespass charges.
President Donald Trump tweeted this message the following day: "The anti-Semitic attack in Monsey, New York, on the 7th night of Hanukkah last night is horrific.
The controversy surrounding the stoppage continues to this day, and 10 years later, The Ring proclaimed it the "Fight of the Decade".
He was portrayed by Laurence Fishburne, whose performance earned him an Oscar nomination for Best Actor at the 66th Academy Awards.
Harris was separated from his friends in the chaos of the crowd and was "cornered" by white supremacists who attacked him with poles, metal pipes, and wood slabs.
In the Australian Capital Territory, sexual assault is punishable under Part 3 of the Crimes Act 1900 with a maximum punishment of 17 years.
Atieno made his competitive debut for Torquay in the club's first game of the 2011–12 campaign, coming on as a 68th-minute substitute in a 2–2 draw at home to Burton Albion.
In May 2020, Ware made his NASCAR Xfinity Series debut at Bristol Motor Speedway with SS-Green Light Racing; the team had formed an alliance with Rick Ware Racing to run the No.
Sir Alex Ferguson stated "My first and lasting memory of Ravel as a young lad was that he [always] got time and space.
A few days later, Farage was reportedly trapped on his campaign bus after arriving in Kent to speak to supporters, as a group of people holding milkshakes watched nearby.
Bob Dylan mentioned Shaver in his song "I Feel a Change Comin' On" (Bob Dylan and Robert Hunter) on the album, Together Through Life (2009) – "I'm listening to Billy Joe Shaver, And I'm reading James Joyce".
On December 31, 2005, four members of the Russian Armed Forces tortured fellow soldier Andrey Sergeyevich Sychyov (Russian: Андре́й Серге́евич Сычёв, also transliterated Sychev or Sychov) at the Chelyabinsk Tank Academy in Chelyabinsk, Russia.
Kumar resigned from Bajrang Dal on 1 October 2008 after witnessing a Hindu woman who had decided to commit suicide with her three children but was saved by Christian missionaries.
Expulsion Traditional Muslim sources view these episodes as a violation of the Constitution of Medina.
In August 2016, Nzonzi's father contacted new England manager Sam Allardyce – who had signed him for Blackburn in 2009 – to inquire whether he was eligible to represent England.
In September 2017, along with former United teammates including Gary Neville, Giggs proposed a university in Greater Manchester, named University Academy 92 which would offer "broader courses than traditional degrees" and attract students who "otherwise might not go on to higher education".
Career statistics Club International Scores and results list Wales' and Great Britain's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Giggs goal.
With little money coming into the home, Bauer was forced to wear clothes made out of old feed sacks, helping shape his hard-nosed approach to life.
Manager On June 19, 1961, the Athletics fired Gordon and Bauer was named the team's playing-manager.
The Challenge Note: Paula appeared on the 2010 MTV special Spring Break Challenge as a commentator References External links MTV's The Real World: Key West official site House rental lease for Real World Key West Svetlana Shusterman's blog
In 2002, the National Health Service estimated that it spent at least £1.5 million annually on treating the victims of punishment attacks.
Under the moniker "Kid Gangsta", he began rapping recreationally at age six; he was also a fan of N.W.A at that age.
On August 6, Woodburn announced he would resign as the minority leader but would remain as a senator.
Initially, they played for predominately black audiences at clubs in Illinois such as the Club Manhattan in East St.
Taylor won his following three fights, including a second-round knockout over number four ranked welterweight Chad Broussard.
He dropped his weapons and said, 'I'm sorry.' And I said, 'Well, if you had said that inside, there would have been no problem.'" After unsuccessfully attempting to surrender to police in Austin, who were unaware of the warrant, Shaver turned himself in at McLennan County Jail in Waco on April 3.
Gardner asked Scurlock to get off him, and then using his left hand fired the gun over his shoulder, striking Scurlock in the clavicle, killing him.
Lord Steyn said: The starting point must be that an assault is an ingredient of the offence under section 47.
Nebraska Governor Pete Ricketts apologized to the Black community after saying "where the hell were you people?" during a heated meeting with local Black leaders.
In March 2014, he was arrested for, and ultimately admitted to, assault and battery and property destruction after he had had a fight with a girlfriend.
Prevention In Florida, statewide policy is to install fences on highly trafficked overpasses and those near schools.
In 2019, Rick Ware Racing formed an Asian Le Mans Series program with Ware and Mark Kvamme as drivers of the Ligier JS P2.
However, the campaign was pulled one day after its release, following Valencia Barrientos's rape and assault charges on 10 October 2024.
In the years since, Nivel has been a guest of honour at Germany football matches and a foundation in his name has opposed football hooliganism.
The legal principle that an assault can be committed by an omission that was affirmed in this case, was later put into statute law through the passage of the Sexual Offences Act 2003.
The Red Brigades, an Italian Marxist terrorist group, employed limb shootings (gambizzazioni) to warn their opponents.
His club at the time, Manchester United, applied for a Therapeutic Use Exemption to allow Morrison to take his prescribed medication for the disorder, but their request was declined.
In late May 2024, Marco Goecke was announced to be the ballet director for the Theater Basel from the upcoming season 2025/2026.
Vizquel threw out Ernest Riles for the last out of Chris Bosio's no-hitter, the second no-hitter in franchise history, on April 22, 1993.
He made his international début in the latter match, scoring the game-winning goal in the 85th minute.
Nico Schulz (German pronunciation: [ˈniːko ˈʃʊlts]; born 1 April 1993) is a German professional footballer who plays as a left-back.
The "starting sentence" is a short custodial sentence, and it is considered a more serious offence than common assault.
Scotty James Butters and David Nikos Pillatos pled guilty to first-degree murder, accepted a plea agreement and testified against Monschke in exchange for being able to request that their imprisonment be no more than approximately 30 years.
In the following years he played for Hertha's youth teams and reached the final of the U19 DFB-Pokal in 2009–10, but lost 1–2 against 1899 Hoffenheim.
He confronted Hüster during the intermission of a show including one of his works at the Hanover State Ballet, telling her that her piece had caused people to cancel their season tickets, and threatening to ban her from the premises.
According to Saha, this inherited bureaucracy was considered by many analysts to be a major obstacle for Sheikh Mujib.
Not all bars and restaurants in Lincolnshire and around the world participate in the campaign, so staff cannot be expected to know the protocol when someone asks for Angela at these places.
However, if the crime is perpetrated against a firefighter or police officer, the offender may face first-degree felony charges carrying a penalty of up to 20 years in prison.
According to his statement, On the night of the incident, Bangabandhu (Sheikh Mujibur Rahman), his wife Begum Mujib (Sheikh Fazilatunnesa Mujib) and their youngest son Sheikh Russel (aged 10 years) were asleep in the same room on the second floor.
In another study, Mohler-Kuo, Dowdall, Koss & Weschler (2004) found in a study of approximately 25,000 college women nationwide that 4.7% experienced rape or attempted rape during a single academic year.
Harry Luff (September 14, 1856 – October 11, 1916) was an American Major League Baseball player from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania who played for six teams in four different major leagues from 1875 to 1885.
Return to West Ham United Morrison returned to West Ham United from his loan with Birmingham City for the 2013–14 season.
Woodburn served on the Public and Municipal Affairs Committee and the Election Law and Internal Affairs Committee.
While still a teenager, Al was kicked out of the family home after his devoutly religious father caught him listening to Jackie Wilson.
On the Saturday before the attack, the suspect's mobile browser was used to access an article titled "New York City Increases Police Presence in Jewish Neighborhoods".
On August 10, 2013, via his official YouTube page, Bow Wow stated the reason that Underrated had been delayed was the result of raising his daughter and waiting until he was more mature; he also stated he planned on working on and releasing the album after he turned 28.
The two are regarded as the pre-eminent one-day riders of their generation, having combined for 20 Monument victories—eight for van der Poel and twelve for Pogačar—placing them far ahead of other active cyclists.
Under coach Edin Terzić, Schulz played no competitive matches with the senior team, he only featured once in a friendly match for Borussia Dortmund II against Go Ahead Eagles in September 2022.
These statistics only include incidents reported to the police, and are therefore considered by researchers to represent only "the tip of the iceberg".
Career statistics Club As of match played 7 May 2022 International As of match played 11 November 2020 As of match played 24 March 2019 Scores and results list Germany's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Schulz goal.
Shortly before the beating had occurred, a proposed Maryland law that would have added protections for transgender people failed to pass the legislature.
New Jack City II, his sixth album, was released in March 2009 was his first album to include a Parental Advisory: Steven Roberts of MTV News observed that this album explored "the influence of crack cocaine in inner-city communities", and featured such guests as T.I.
Prior, he garnered a regional following with the release of his 2018 singles "10 Percent" and "Crayola", and signed with Birdman's Cash Money Records, an imprint of Republic Records in August of that year.
The modern terms pistol-whipping and to pistol-whip were reported as "new words" of American speech in 1955, with cited usages dating to the 1940s.
Background and reason for attack According to Ibn Hisham, a dispute broke out between the Muslims and the Banu Qaynuqa (the allies of the Khazraj tribe) soon afterwards when a Muslim woman visited a jeweller's shop in the Qaynuqa marketplace and she was pestered to uncover her face.
During Coffeezilla's discussion with Williams regarding Faddy Coin, Williams stated that a majority of the money he made had been put to helping treat the condition.
Davenport made his debut against Charlton Athletic on 19 January 2008, but had to be substituted before half-time after a collision with teammate Darius Henderson.
On 25 May 1984, Nielsen murdered Henning Norbert Knudsen, better known as "Makrel", the national president of the rival Bullshit MC.
But the vault of Bangladesh Bank was guarded by hundreds of policemen and this vault was so secure that it could not be destroyed without dynamite.
Although the BAKSAL was intended to bring stability to Bangladesh and uphold law and order, it engendered hostility among the bureaucracy, military, and civil society.
Ryland Randolph (1835 – April 5, 1903) was a newspaper publisher, Ku Klux Klan leader, and state legislator who lived in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
Vizquel won nine consecutive Gold Gloves with the Mariners and Indians, starting with his first in 1993 with Seattle and continuing until 2001.
Other nominees included Paula for "Best Meltdown" and for "Best Phonecall Gone Bad", and Tyler for "Roommate you Love to Hate", "Best Dance-Off" and for "Steamiest Scene" alongside Bhakti.
In February 2019, it was reported that owing to continued xenophobic threats against Jamal's family and against other Syrian families in Huddersfield, and a failure to protect the families against these threats, Jamal's family decided to leave the area for their own safety.
After calling an eyewitness of the Castellano hit who identified Carneglia as one of the men who shot Bilotti, they then brought Gravano to testify on March 2.
Woodburn (born June 1965) from Dalton, New Hampshire is a former Democratic member of the New Hampshire Senate for the 1st district, elected in 2012.
Ware returned to RWR's reformed Xfinity Series team in 2020 at the Charlotte Roval, where he recorded his first series top-ten finish in seventh.
Dalim-Mostafa conflict In 1974, Gazi Golam Mostafa kidnapped Major Shariful Haque Dalim and his wife from the Dhaka Ladies Club after an argument during Dalim's cousin's wedding reception.
The first known instance of an acid attack occurred in East Pakistan present day Bangladesh in 1967.
Moss then parted ways with So So Def and signed with its parent label, Columbia Records, to release his third album, Unleashed (2003).
On 16 October 2018, prior to the UEFA Nations League football match between France and Germany, Nivel was awarded the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany by the German Minister of Foreign Affairs Heiko Maas in Paris.
History Case First, the Public Prosecutor's Office of Pernambuco filed lawsuits against the Jornal do Commercio de Comunicação System, the company that owns TV Jornal, where the television program Much More was broadcast.
In July 2025, the Metropolitan Police announced that Ward had been charged with two counts of rape and three counts of sexual assault.
He was scheduled to drive at Michigan but Ware decided to stay out of the car for the race and the team did not find a replacement driver in time.
Dirty God – a 2019 English film starring Vicky Knight as an acid attack victim seeking justice and healing.
In 19th century Britain, "stone throwing" was defined as a "nuisance", one of a number of offenses such as "kite-flying" and "doorbell ringing" to be handled by bylaws which differed from town to town.
Assaulting a constable in the execution of his duty is a statutory offence of aggravated assault in England and Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland, and Hong Kong.
He stated that he later loaded his handgun in a bathroom at the airport and "shot the first people he encountered" after coming out.
Dudley Goodlette, who later reviewed the incident, said was "textbook." Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel said that law enforcement officers did not fire shots, and arrested the gunman without further incident.
The residence The cast lived in a nearly 6,000-square-foot (560 m2) Spanish Mediterranean-style, five bedroom, four and a half bathroom house at 32 Driftwood Drive in Key Haven, just north of the Key West city limits.
On November 2, 2018, a mass shooting occurred at Tallahassee Hot Yoga, a yoga studio located in Tallahassee, Florida, United States.
The son of Hugh Ingram (1790–1863), a surgeon, and his wife Mary Bostock (1796–1879), he was born at Steyning in Sussex and died there as well.
The modern offences of assault, assault causing harm, and causing serious harm were created by that Act.
However, despite the renewed forensic interest, no definitive physical evidence was found tying him to the cyanide-laced capsules, and he was not charged.
"Prosecutors said the attack was meant to lift Monschke's status in the white supremacist movement and to earn Frye a pair of red shoelaces, with the red signifying the drawing of blood." Tristain Lynn Frye was sentenced to 13 years, nine months, for second-degree murder.
He was paroled in summer 1998, but was put back into prison in 2001 after the death of a man at an Aalborg nightclub in August 2001.
Sheffield United, and Middlesbrough loan In July 2019, manager Chris Wilder confirmed that Morrison had begun training with newly promoted Premier League side Sheffield United ahead of the new season, describing the move as being "a good fit for the player and the club".
Robertson appeared as Spanky in a revival of John Byrne's Slab Boys trilogy, and as Romeo in Romeo and Juliet at the Citizens' Theatre.
Musician Donald Fagen noted: "[T]alented as he was, there wasn't anything really supernatural about Ike's skills as a musician...
Luff died from heart disease on October 11, 1916, and was interred at Laurel Hill Cemetery in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Thomas had previously been released from police custody after being arrested for a number of minor violent crimes.
Later in 2020, Jason and Alexia returned to YouTube on a joint channel known as Dream Team, although the content of this channel was removed following a second separation.
The trial heard evidence from former pupils, all five of whom supported the defendant Lennon; the judge disbelieved them.
In 1884 he set up the company Sorn Dairy Supply which sold dairy products from the estate in Sorn through a number of premises in Glasgow.
Thus, if the officer is not acting under the authority of a warrant, acting under a statutory or common law power of entry, or in hot pursuit, the person lawfully in possession of land is entitled to withdraw permission for the officer to remain.
He was arrested, and said that he was innocent, and that it was the girlfriend who had attacked him.
32) now provides that it is an offence for a person to, amongst other things, assault a constable in the execution of his duty, or a person assisting a constable in the execution of his duty.
Denmark was occupied by Nazi Germany from 1940 to 1945, and the use of Nazi symbols was considered to be especially offensive in Denmark.
Ireland In Ireland, the Garda Síochána carried out multiple needle spiking investigations in October and November 2021.
Mental disorder Thomas had a long history of serious mental illness; his condition has been deteriorating for at least a decade.
Both republican and loyalist paramilitaries claim that they began to enforce informal justice due to demand from their communities, and vigilantism came at the expense of the IRA's military campaign.
Racing career Before racing in NASCAR and the ARCA Menards Series, Ware competed in Pro Late Models.
Nick Kent, who had played guitar with the Sex Pistols early on and had left music to become an NME music critic and champion of punk rock (and who was Hynde's boyfriend), was also there, and was apparently blocking Vicious's view.
The United States was reluctant to threaten the success of the peace process due to punishment attacks, because it considered that these did not fit the conventional definition of terrorism.
Pistol-whipping or buffaloing is the act of using a handgun as a blunt weapon, wielding it as an improvised club or whip.
Assault with intent to resist arrest This offence is created by section 38 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (24 & 25 Vict.
When asked regarding the initiative, one restaurant owner in London reported that a high staff turnover rate has created confusion and misunderstanding, and the expenses of the programme were simply too high to justify keeping it.
In August 2022, Schulz's former girlfriend filed a criminal complaint against him of multiple cases of domestic violence alleged to have occurred in 2020.
Should the officer refuse to leave, the officer will cease to be "acting in the execution of their duty".
When asked again at a later date though if he had accepted responsibility for the attacks he denied it.
Standoff The standoff began in 2000 when Gray jumped bail after indictment on two counts of felony assault.
Tina gave up her share of their Bolic Sound recording studio, publishing companies, and real estate.
According to several newspaper articles Nielsen was booted from the club with status "out" which, in effect, means so called bad standing.
Radio Brand's radio career began in early 2002, when he hosted a Sunday afternoon show with Matt Morgan on London's Indie Rock station Xfm.
Though reports the following day suggested he had received his passport and could play in the World Cup qualifier against Tunisia, this appeared not to have been the case.
On August 26, 2011, Dane Hall was curb stomped in an attack outside a gay bar in Salt Lake City, Utah.
In the cases of Solomon Adler and Bhagat Singh Thind, they subsequently obtained United States citizenship.
However, in March 2023 the New Hampshire Supreme Court overturned Woodburn's convictions and ordered a new trial on the grounds that the trial judge had improperly refused to allow him to raise self-defence.
He serves as a National Executive Member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and a member of parliament from the Balasore Lok Sabha constituency in Odisha.
It is possible that a second artist was commissioned to paint the landscape at the top left of the painting.
It depicts two sleeping nude women, one shackled, apparently intended as Christian martyrs sentenced to death by beasts.
Rediscovery The painting was sold for $40 at a charity auction at the St Vincent de Paul auction house in San Diego in the mid-1990s to art collector Michael Hempstead.
Agony in the Garden is a small 1524 oil on panel painting of the Agony in the Garden by Correggio, now at Apsley House in London.
It also typically includes an Angel, who strengthens Jesus in his agony (Luke 22:43) and simultaneously holds a chalice, which is the figurative object of his prayer.
The aged Joseph appears similar to the elderly saints in The Inspiration of Saint Matthew of 1602 and, less clearly, Saint Jerome in Meditation of about 1605.
In 1940, the painting was one of six of her works displayed at the Indian Academy of Fine Arts' Amritsar Exhibition, held from 31 October to 10 November, to raise money for the War Fund.
Held suggests that the composition possibly represents the story of Alcyone and Ceyx as told by the Roman poet Ovid in his Metamorphoses.
In 1926, the American writer Max Eastman visited Sigmund Freud and saw a print of the painting next to Rembrandt's The Anatomy Lesson in Freud's apartment in Vienna.
The painting was intended for the French emperor Napoleon's bedroom in the Quirinal Palace in Rome, but was reacquired by Ingres in 1835.
Agony in the Garden is a painting by Andrea Mantegna, conserved at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Tours, dating from 1457–59.
The buyer is likely to have been Jewish and left the country in the lead up to or during World War II.
Hidden Feminist Symbolism One of the first ever female pupils at London's Slade School, she has littered this work with hidden feminist symbolism.
After a transfer from the church of Saint-Jean-d'Angély, in Charente-Maritime, it was moved to the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon.
It held the record for the highest auction price for a Lichtenstein painting from May 2012 until May 2013.
The historical authenticity of Ossian was the subject of a contemporary debate, and the composition still features classical aspects such as the near-Roman style of armor worn by the warriors.
The Gershes were instrumental in the modern and contemporary art movements in Southern California, especially as founding members of The Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles (MOCA).
58–59 References Museum of Modern Art Provenance, Museum of Modern Art Henri Rousseau: Jungles in Paris, National Gallery of Art Selected Writings: Poetry of grammar and grammar of poetry, Roman Jakobson, pp.
The features, although they vaguely pay homage to those of the client's wife, recall more strongly those of a classical Venus, with a particularly light and smooth complexion that resembles marble more than flesh.
It was owned by a set designer, who sold it to an art collector, who sold it at auction in 2014 for $285,700.
Possessing a classical Greek style beauty, Dene had golden wavy hair with excellent skin texture and colouration on her face; she was taller than average with graceful arms and legs together with an “exquisitely moulded bust”.
Despite their similar poses in the painting, the character in the foreground is bathed in light, while his brother is shrouded in darkness; the first therefore represents Sleep, the latter Death.
The Dream (French: Le Rêve; occasionally also known as Le Songe or Rêve exotique) is a large oil-on-canvas painting created by Henri Rousseau in 1910, one of more than 25 Rousseau paintings with a jungle theme.
Rockefeller in 1954, who donated it to the Museum of Modern Art, New York to celebrate the Museum's 25th anniversary.
Additional ancient copies can be found at the Uffizi in Florence, Vatican Museums in Vatican City, and the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg.
The smaller pomegranate floating between two droplets of water may symbolize Venus, especially because of the heart-shaped shadow it casts.
La Dormeuse de Naples (literally The Sleeping Woman of Naples; originally known as Donna nuda che dorme or Sleeping nude woman) was an 1809 painting by the French artist Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, now lost.
Provenance The painting was very probably painted for a monastery, now demolished, of the Order of Minims in what is now the place des Vosges in Paris.
The image became popular to the extent that he produced at least three other versions, engraved versions became widely distributed, it was parodied in political satire, and became a frequent source for 19th-century Gothic fiction authors such as Mary Shelley.
Buck welcomed discussion about the sculpture and considers it a "Bible lesson for those used to seeing Jesus depicted in traditional religious art as the Christ of glory, enthroned in finery." Furthermore, he said in an interview with NPR, "We believe that that's the kind of life Jesus had.
La Dormeuse de Naples disappeared in 1815 after the royal palace in Naples was pillaged following Murat's fall from power.
The Victory of Faith was exhibited at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition of 1891 and at the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893.
In Christian art, a Mount of Olives group (German: Ölberggruppe) is a sculptural representation of the biblical scene where Jesus prays with his disciples in the garden of Gethsemane on the night before his crucifixion.
These ensembles were part of the new phase of "the Gothic tendency to visualize salvation" of the late 15th century and were particularly popular in the German-speaking regions of Northern Europe in the 15th century.
Signorelli went from Orvieto to see the body, had it uncovered and, in Vasari's words, "with the greatest presence of mind, without weeping or tears, he drew him, always wanting to see – through the work of his hands – what nature had given him and his enemy fortune had taken away".
In 1999, Hempstead recognised the painting in the film Stuart Little, in which it was used as set dressing in the background of shots inside the main character's house.
The previous record for a Lichtenstein work had been established in November 2011 when I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It!
According to documents quoted by Lippert in 1871, Jiří Vilém Herold of Stod, a citizen of Litoměřice and a royal magistrate, donated the panels to the diocese Church of All Saints in Litoměřice in 1633.
Based on Giovanni Boccaccio's The Decameron, the painting depicts a scene from the first tale of day five; Iphigenia is sleeping in the woods and Cymon, a young nobleman, stands gazing at her beauty which fills him with inspiration.
By around 1500, almost every Catholic parish church in Central Europe possessed a Mount of Olives group, either as a relief or a fully three-dimensional sculpture.
As in another of his curtained scenes, a drawing of a subject from Milton's L'Allegro now in Auckland, there are four main figures—the slumbering Belinda, her guardian sylph Ariel, the gnome Umbriel, and, on the ground beneath a sheet, the covetous Baron.
The idea that she was recently together with someone is reinforced by the wine pitcher, the glass on its side and the possible presence of a knife and fork on the table.
The elegant gestures and dynamic movement of the elongated figure of Marie contrasts with her very human attachment to the Baby Jesus.
The niche, if it was not a grotto from the first, was redecorated as a grotto in the 1530s, when Francisco de Holanda made a drawing of it.
Found also in Fuseli's 1780s drawing Sleeping Woman with a Cupid, where the subject perhaps suggests the sleep of reason, a further large lepidopteran beneath Umbriel's back foot may reinforce the connection with erotic dreams inhabited by the Toggeli or incubi of Swiss folklore.
The soldiers are young conscripts of the French Third Republic who are taking part in summer exercises, probably in Champagne.
The sculptor has imagined the river bank conceptually to represent the Kshirasagara (cosmic ocean) from which Brahma created the world.
In addition to Stuart Little, the painting was also featured in a number of soap opera episodes, including some of Family Law.
The cup and the bunches of grapes next to him, and the vineyard in the background, suggest that Noah is drunk.
In the years following his going deaf, Goya spent much of his time isolated from the outside world, as he asserted that he was unable to resume his work on large tapestry cartoons, and thus he turned to more personal projects.
For Detaille, creating this painting was to "take a direct political position", showing his support for nationalist general Georges Boulanger, as well as celebrating the army.
Background Born in France in 1848, Paul Gauguin was an influential Post-Impressionist artist whose work was influential on the Symbolist movement and on all of modern art for many years after his death.
Origin and composition Sleep is an oil on canvas painting by Amrita Sher-Gil, depicting her younger sister Indira.
From the house of Visconti it passed to the Marquis of Caracena before being taken to Spain by the end of the 17th century - there it was admired by Anton Raphael Mengs before being gifted to the Duke of Wellington by Ferdinand VII for his actions during the Peninsular War.
Ascanio Condivi, the Italian Painter, described Michelangelo's work as "a god of love, aged six or seven years old and asleep".
In 2009, art historian Gergely Barki identified the painting while watching the film with his daughter, and tracked it down.
The Dawn of Love was also exhibited at a 1955 Arts Council exhibition, and was one of the works exhibited in a major retrospective of Etty's works at the York Art Gallery in 2011–12.
Ownership Until the mid-19th century Early Renaissance paintings were regarded as curiosities by most collectors.
To begin, none of these three works were listed in Petragnani's inventory of 1600, although it is possible that they could have been painted for another patron.
In another example admiral Lord Nelson is the demon and his mistress Emma, Lady Hamilton is the sleeper.
Rest on the Flight into Egypt is an oil on canvas painting executed c.1665 by the Spanish artist Bartolomé Esteban Murillo which is now in the Hermitage Museum, St Petersburg, Russia.
The Gentleman's Dream, The Knight's Dream or Dillusion with the World (Spanish: El sueño del caballero) is a 1650s vanitas painting by the Spanish artist Antonio de Pereda.
It shows an angel appearing to Joseph of Nazareth in his sleep to warn him of Herod the Great's intent to kill Jesus and to instruct him to flee into Egypt (Matthew 2:13).
Since then, the painting has been loaned to several museums around the world including the Museo del Prado in Madrid in 2008, the Staatsgalerie Stuttgart in Germany in 2009, and the Frick Collection in New York City in 2015.
At the top of the work are Christ and an angel, with the apostles Peter, John and James sleeping at the bottom.
This led to one of the cupids on the album to be thought to be Michelangelo's lost cupid, as the description matches quite well.
In contrast to other full portraits that Picasso produced of his model, he chose to focus this painting on her facial features, providing an incredibly intimate portrait.
While some seem surprised by the presence of these women, others express their concern and interest.
However, it offered little protection against the decay of the paint layers, and in fact contributed to the displacement of pigment.
La Belle Assemblée, meanwhile, felt that Etty's representation of Venus "though a fine voluptuous woman, is not, either in supremacy of beauty, or according to any received description of the love-inspiring goddess, a Venus", and complained that "the colouring of the flesh is chalky".
Michael's said the church declined because appreciation "was not unanimous" and it was undergoing restoration.
Under The Garden Court, the inscription reads: "The maiden pleasance of the land Knoweth no stir of voice or hand, No cup the sleeping waters fill, The restless shuttle lieth still." The Rose Bower The sleeping beauty lies on her bed surrounded by her slumbering attendants.
It depicts the moment at which Isabella's brothers realise that there is a romance between the two young people, and plot to murder Lorenzo so they can marry Isabella to a wealthy nobleman.
A single nude woman in any position was an unusual subject for a large painting at this date, although it was to become popular for centuries afterwards, as "the reclining female nude became a distinctive feature of Venetian painting".
ISBN 978-0-300-07937-1 Barrington, Russel, The Life, Letters and Work of Frederic Leighton, 2 Voll., BiblioBazaar (2010).
He said he wanted to express the psychological "drama and anguish" of the moment and contrast it with "the calm of Venus".
Above the statue is a black marble plaque dedicated to William Robinson (the father of the two children).
It was again displayed at the Royal Academy in the winter of 1897, a memorial exhibition of his works as Leighton had died on 25 January 1896.
It is held in the nusée de Tessé in Le Mans A similar earlier work by the artist is his 1642 The Dream of Saint Joseph (National Gallery, London) for the Chapelle des Minimes de la place Royale.
Untersuchung und Katalog [The Mount of Olives representation in the monumental sculpture of Southern Germany.
background figures are larger ensembles sometimes including figures of Judas and Roman soldiers made at a smaller scale to indicate approach from the distance for the coming arrest.
Etty seems conscious of the coldness of his flesh-colour, and atones for it by the flabbiness of his figures.
Such carvings on entrance gates or central part of regular temple lintels have been noted in the Rajeevlochana temple at Rajim and the Lakshmana temple in Sirpur, which were forerunners for its adoption under the Bhaumakara kingdom.
The painting created an impact in 19th-century art, because after the public display of Le Sommeil, a number of contemporary artists were influenced by the theme of lesbian couples.
Description The painting depicts a sleeping Saint Joseph, the babies Jesus and John the Baptist playing with a lamb, and Mary, being approached from the right by an older woman with distinctly "gypsy" features.
See also List of paintings by Caravaggio References Secondary sources External links Media related to Sleeping Cupid by Caravaggio at Wikimedia Commons
Much progress has been made, but the following should be regarded as tentative only, as Caravaggio left few clues.
Once it had become part of Museo de Arte de Ponce's collection, it became its symbol and most recognized artwork.
It depicts Saint Joseph's dream as set out in the first chapter of the Gospel of Matthew verses 20–21; this is the first of Joseph's four dreams, as recorded in Matthew, a subject also known as the Annunciation to Joseph.
Chassérieu had been a disciple of neoclassical master Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres but was also an admirer of the romanticism of Eugène Delacroix.
Printed to accompany Canto IV, the subject matter is perforce limited to that chapter; Fuseli's large-scale painting of the previous decade drew instead from the whole poem.
In 2005, the art historian Bart Cornelis wrote: "Although the painting looks brilliant after treatment, one cannot help feeling that part of its charm has gone, now that the splendid isolation of the soldier has been lost by the sudden appearance of another soldier ....
The dust is then cleaned off the plate, to which ink is applied; the ink penetrates the etched depressions, and when the plate is printed, it creates a network of thin etched lines.
The work's history from that point is unknown until its ownership by John Waterloo Wilson in Paris after 1873.
This work also suggests that it is part of the Art Nouveau movement due to the time period and the decorative elements.
Mantegna was Bellini's brother-in-law, and his influence on Bellini is apparent; in fact, Bellini's rendering of Agony in the Garden was long-believed to be painted by Mantegna.
Rousseau's earlier works had received a negative reception, but poet and critic Guillaume Apollinaire remarked on its debut: "The picture radiates beauty, that is indisputable.
From 1832 onwards, needled by repeated attacks from the press on his supposed indecency and tastelessness, Etty continued to be a prominent painter of nudes but began to make conscious efforts to reflect moral teachings in his work.
Description Christ is portrayed in center of the panel above a clear sky, kneeling in the Garden of Gethsemane and receiving by an angel a divine chalice.
In the center of the dream, four maidens play harps in the clouds before a seated and long-haired Snow King Starno.
A Girl Asleep (Dutch: Slapend meisje), also known as A Woman Asleep, A Woman Asleep at Table, and A Maid Asleep, is a painting by the Dutch master Johannes Vermeer, created c.
Lamentation over the Dead Christ is a painting of 1502 in oils on panel by Luca Signorelli, painted for the church of Santa Margherita and now in the Diocesan Museum in Cortona.
Works like Christ in the Garden of Olives where he directly places himself in the position of Jesus Christ are an example of this.
The chubby Christ, so pale and abandoned, seems to give an omen of his death and the kiss and embrace of little Saint John are useless to awaken him.
It is also one of the very rare landscapes from this artist who seems always to have been painting in a prison cell, a room at a tavern, or at night – one critic has joked that all the sky in all Caravaggio's 80-odd works would add up to a few square centimeters of paint.
In the present work this is perhaps expressed through the angel appearing in brilliantly illuminated colours from the darkness and foreboding of the trees.
Even despite the peaceful nature of the subject, the paintings radiates Van Gogh's renowned artistic intensity.
The clerk's book, papers, ink and pen lie idle, as do the peasant's flail and the soldier's lance and gauntlet.
While a few critics praised elements of its composition and execution, The Dawn of Love was very poorly received when first exhibited.
In 1832 Ingres asked Caroline Murat about the painting by courier in an attempt to locate it in time to exhibit at the Salon of 1833, but this was unsuccessful.
Placing himself in the position of Christ, Gauguin attempts to liken his suffering to that of the savior and further continues to portray himself as someone who will ultimately be a messenger for his contemporaries, despite being rejected by them.
As in Madonna with Sleeping Child (Berlin) and Madonna and Child (Bergamo), the Virgin is touching her face to her son's, a pose drawn from Donatello, particularly his Pazzi Madonna.
Housed at the National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi, Sleep was part of the 2007 exhibition held at the Tate Gallery in London.
Although the pages are now separated, eleven are held by the Kunsthalle Mannheim, but a pen and ink drawing of a sleeping boy (German: Schlafender Knabe) dated to 1802 is held by the Kunsthalle Bremen.
One of the models for the painting was Joanna Hiffernan, who was the mistress of fellow painter James Abbott Whistler at the time.
Immersed in his work, Burne-Jones identified himself with Arthur and even adopted Arthur's pose when he himself slept.
The profile face at the back of the left-hand side is thought to be his friend, the painter Walter Deverell.
In the absence of a place in a sequence, inscribed text, a title, or decor showing a setting in Egypt, the third and fourth dreams can generally be ruled out where there is uncertainty.
ISBN 978-3-901508-84-4 External links Frederic-Leighton.org 114 works by Frederic Leighton Discussion by Janina Ramirez: Art Detective Podcast, 29 Jan 2017 The Return of Flaming June The peculiar life & times of Flaming June: “The most wonderful painting in existence”, WordPress blog entry
Francis in Ecstasy part of a donation of 57 works to the religious complex by Lercaro between 1622 and 1623.
It usually consists of a kneeling figure of Jesus in prayer and figures of the sleeping disciples Peter, John, and James.
Bassekhes wrote about the "poetically integral perception of the living rhythm of the depiction of the human body" when perceiving these four sculptures.
According to Mochalov, "the boy breathes together with his native land, its hills, woodlands, river bends.
The Crucifixion This monumental composition is dominated by the Crucified Christ with horizontally billowing tips of this robe.
Copies An anonymous 17th-century rectangular copy is recorded in the Orleans Collection before being acquired by the Duke of Sutherland and finally ending up in Princeton University Art Museum.
The Sleeping Muse (Romanian: Muza adormită or Muză dormind) is a bronze sculpture created by Constantin Brâncuși in 1910.
In 1991 it was part of Paula Rego: Tales from the National Gallery, a touring exhibition of National Gallery paintings, chosen by Paula Rego, that went to Plymouth, Middlesbrough, Manchester and Barnsley.
The Sleeping Ariadne, housed in the Vatican Museums in Vatican City, is a Roman Hadrianic copy of a Hellenistic sculpture of the Pergamene school of the 2nd century BC, and is one of the most renowned sculptures of Antiquity.
Diego Angulo's Catálogo crítico lists at least two other treatments of that subject, namely the c.1660 one in the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest and a 1645-1650 very similar but slightly larger version of the Detroit work now in the Palazzo Bianco in Genoa.
Subject and composition While imprisoned by her father Acrisius, King of Argos, in a tower of bronze, Danaë was visited by Zeus, symbolized here as the golden rain flowing between her legs.
De Lairesse recounts in his Groot Schilderboek that he and others were of the view that the painting was simply a painting of a nude model to which other elements were added solely to complete the picture.
Wildman, Stephen: Edward Burne-Jones, Victorian artist-dreamer, Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1998, ISBN 0-87099-859-5
The work was completed in time for the Royal Academy Art Exhibition of 1816, where it was a sensation.
This theme explored the depiction of Walter lost in her subconscious, drawing connections with Picasso's Surrealist works.
The painting was originally oval-shaped, but Ingres fitted it to a rectangular frame after repurchasing the work.
They may represent the ideal attributes of the knight: the book, sword, and flower that they hold suggest the ideals of scholar, soldier and lover which a knight should combine.
Caravaggio shows Mary asleep with the infant Jesus, while Joseph holds a manuscript for an angel who is playing a hymn to Mary on the viol.
The statue depicts Penelope Boothby, the daughter of Sir Brooke Boothby, 6th Baronet, who had died during childhood.
The title of the print, as marked on the front of the desk, is typically read as proclaiming Goya's adherence to the values of the Enlightenment: without reason, evil and corruption prevail.
Fuseli wrote of his fantasies to Lavater in 1779: "Last night I had her in bed with me—tossed my bedclothes hugger-mugger—wound my hot and tight-clasped hands about her—fused her body and soul together with my own—poured into her my spirit, breath and strength.
The draped figure looks the least lifelike, demonstrating Leighton's claimed need to draw from a naked model to achieve a fidelity to nature.
He wished to capture the overall impression of drowsiness just before drifting to sleep especially on long hot days as night begins to fall.
He was fascinated by the contrast between the fair, the monstrosities of the museum, and a wax sculpture of a sleeping Venus that was part of the museum's exhibition.
Description Michelangelo created the sculpture and then passed it onto a dealer, Baldassare del Milanese.
This painting was shocking as it was very detailed and naturalistic; critics widely believed that the painting was meant as a criticism of the royal family as the members of the family were portrayed in a physically-unflattering manner.
Another distinctive Pre-Raphaelite feature is the inclusion of images and patterns within the image as a whole.
Subject The sculpture depicts the two daughters of Ellen-Jane Robinson (née Woodhouse) lying asleep on a bed in each other's arms.
She is shown apparently sleeping in a couch, while holding with her a hand one of her unusually large breasts.
1 (sold for $44.4 million in 2014), and also exceeded Kahlo's own record for a Latin American artist set by Diego y yo in 2021.
The sculpture was discovered at Santa Maria della Vittoria in Rome in 1618 and became part of the Borghese Collection.
The most significant difference in the remaining two versions is an erotic statuette of a couple on the table.
Foreshadowing the misfortune that is to befall her, crouched waiting at Belinda's feet, beneath a sheet upon which two moths or butterflies copulate, is the ignoble Baron, ready to spring forth and rape her lock.
Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening is a surrealist painting by Salvador Dalí, from 1944.
It seems that the painting deals with the feeling of half consciousness, between waking and falling asleep, which drowsiness causes and which the viewer also experiences while contemplating the painting.
Picasso filled these paintings entirely with Walter's face, conveying the intimacy of the portraits from the close proximity of her lover's gaze.
It was sold to France at the end of the 18th century and is currently on display at The Louvre, in Paris.
Placing these groups in exterior alcoves exposed them to the elements; consequently, terracotta became a popular medium for these sculptures in Franconia, the Middle Rhine, and the Alpine regions during the 15th century due to its durability compared to wood and ease of production compared to stone.
The painting is named after the Agony in the Garden of Gethsemane, which was an event in Jesus' life leading up to his crucifixion.
Exhibition 1932 was the year of Picasso's first retrospective exhibition, which was held at Galerie Georges Petit in Paris and Kunsthaus in Zurich.
History It was first conceived in 1807 while Ingres was at the French Academy in Rome as part of the portfolio as a 'pensionnaire' of the Academy.
Description It measures 179 by 233 centimetres (70 in × 92 in) and is in the Museo del Prado in Madrid.
He and fellow artist formed the secession after leaving Künstlerhaus, or the Corporation of Austrian Artists due to differences in views.
They used many Dionysian attributes such as the nebris or the thyrsus, and took drugs chewing ivy leaves.
But my soul is far away and looks sadly into a black abyss that opens in front of me." The central figure in the image, Gauguin is depicted with his head facing the ground and a face full of sorrow and despair due to the rejection he faced.
History It was produced during Reni's second stay in Naples in 1621 to evaluate the possible commission to decorate the Royal Chapel of the Treasure of St.
The reasons for these later changes are still unknown, although they could have been suggested by the commissioner of the work.
And have her I will.…" Fuseli's marriage proposal met with disapproval from Landholdt's father and seems to have been unrequited—she married a family friend soon after.
The four original paintings – The Briar Wood, The Council Chamber, The Garden Court and The Rose Bower – and an additional ten adjoining panels, are located at Buscot Park in Oxfordshire, England.
The fourth person in the spot where the painting is heavily damaged has his back turned to us and is giving Christ a bulrush as a sceptre.
One of the work's critics writes, "[The animals] symbolize the world's 'vulgar prejudices' and 'harmful ideas commonly believed'.
It is a depiction of the painter's wife reclining asleep in a blue dress behind a table on which is set a black vase.
In the foreground on the right, an elderly woman and an old man, a woman and her child, a man and his son, represent the stages of life.
Saint Joseph's dreams are four dreams described in the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament in which Joseph, the legal father of Jesus, is visited by an angel of the Lord and receives specific instructions and warnings of impending danger.
The work's dating is more complex, but is thought to be close to the same artist's execution of portraits of Lucrezia and Bartolomeo, two members of the Panciatichi family, that is 1541, the year of the family's admission to the Accademia fiorentina.
The two compositions each highlight the difference between the fair complexion of a female with a dark skinned male; both feature a full-length woman reclining beneath a tree and similar lighting techniques are used.
The wood blocks for three of the prints - Boy sleeping on a grave, Woman with the Spider's Web and Woman with a Raven at an Abyss - are held by the Hamburger Kunsthalle.
It shows Saint Joseph receiving the second of his dreams warning him of the Massacre of the Innocents (Matthew 2: 13-15).
Background According to a story published in 1897, Leighton spent six months searching throughout Europe for a model to match his imagined ideal of Iphigenia for his intended portrayal of Cymon and Iphigenia.
In addition to this, Herold, the first recorded donor of the altarpiece, maintained close ties with the Strahov Premonstratensians.
Reverend Robinson was in his thirties at the time of his death and left his wife with their two daughters.
The statue was moved to the south east corner of Lichfield Cathedral in 1817 and remains there to this day.
See also List of works by El Greco Notes Bibliography (in Spanish) ÁLVAREZ LOPERA, José, El Greco, Madrid, Arlanza, 2005, Biblioteca «Descubrir el Arte», (colección «Grandes maestros»).
2025 auction record Sotheby's offered El sueño (La cama) in its 20 November 2025 Exquisite Corpus evening sale of Surrealist art in New York, where it carried a pre-sale estimate of $40–60 million.
43 reads; "Fantasy abandoned by reason produces impossible monsters: united with her [reason], she [fantasy] is the mother of the arts and the origin of their marvels." Goya and satire Goya's print has sometimes been interpreted in the context of satire.
Freedberg writes: The shape of being is the visual demonstration of a state of being in which idealized existence is suspended in immutable slow-breathing harmony.
This is a relatively affluent church, to be honest, and we need to be reminded ourselves that our faith expresses itself in active concern for the marginalized of society".
It featured in a special Winter Exhibition at the Royal Academy, London, held between January and March 1898, which featured many collected works of the late Millais.
There is also a potential parallel between Malvina (or Evirallina) in Ingres's depiction and the ghost of an old bard in Gérard's, since both figures are seen reaching out towards Ossian.
A broken pearl necklace and a hairpin scattered in the bed reference the nature of their previous activity.
A pen sketch for the painting's composition by Rembrandt himself is now in the Kupferstichkabinett Berlin.
Bassekhes wrote about the sculptor's desire to preserve in this translation the "freshness and immediacy" of the theme, which at that time was distinguished by its principled novelty.
The painting's metaphysical allusions include classical poetry by Pindar with its self-referentiality of union between the viewer, the subject, and the role of noetic imagination in deciphering human existence.
The massive painting measures 279 cm × 650 cm, and is widely considered to be Burne-Jones's magnum opus.
Just beneath her is a shawl depicting a dragon that appears to copy the flow of her hair and body curves.
This deep appreciation for the Northern Italian countryside finds its way into Agony in the Garden, where the three hill settlements in the background are evocative of Italian towns of the time, transporting this biblical event tangibly to the contemporary Italian viewers of his work.
His relaxed pose is set against the "more energetic line of his mother's body." Art historian Elise Lawton Smith notes that the couple's "horizontality suggests both sleep and lateral movement as they pass across the landscape".
In the background there is a dark blue velvet curtain and in the right corner a table with a decorative flower vase.
The dating of the work is disputed: it varies from 1482, the year of Perugino's return from Rome, to a slightly later period, although before the end of the century, when the artist started to use only line oil, which in these works is used only at an experimental level.
Legacy In February 1828, shortly after the exhibition of The Dawn of Love, Etty defeated John Constable by 18 votes to five to become a full Royal Academician, at the time the highest honour available to an artist.
This type of painting corresponds well with the sentiment of the time, evoking nostalgia for a unified, victorious France, and acting as a memento of a mythical France that was edging further into the past.
Afterwards, he studied for two years in the city of Leipzig under Salomon Jadassohn and Carl Reinecke.
Later he extended the work to cover the Bunjevci Croats in Hungary and Croats from Gradišće in Austria.
He has also performed with dancers such as Ōno Kazuo and musicians from outside the country including Derek Bailey and Milford Graves.
He is a professor of Anthropology and a member of The Social Dynamics and Complexity Group at the University of California, Irvine as well as a professor at the Japanese National Museum of Ethnology in Senri, Osaka.
From 1968 to 2002, Becker was director of the University of Michigan Javanese gamelan ensemble (Kyai Telaga Madu), and with Alton L.
Career and music Over the course of his distinguished career, he held many key posts in academia and the music scene, among them a Fellow at the Academy of Sciences, of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Covarrubias wrote about his friend: "The months went by as Rose and I roamed all over the island with Spies, watching strange ceremonies, enjoying their music, listening to fantastic tales, camping in the wilds of West Bali or on the coral reefs of Sanur.
"Central Javanese Music: The Patet of Laras Slendro and the Gender Barung." Ethnomusicology 19:2 (1975).
There he studied at the Music Academy, having as teachers, among others, Constantin Brăiloiu, Dumitru Georgescu Kiriac, and Ștefan Popescu.
The 47th ICTM World Conference was held between July 13, 2023 and July 19, 2023 at the ultra-modern Cedi Conference Center University of Ghana, Legon.
There are over eighty works with orchestra in his catalogue, including six symphonies (between 1930 and 1956).
The performer of the "kushaura" (lead mbira part) often acts also as the lead vocalist, selecting a known melody or mbira pattern to accompany selected lyrics, usually a phrase or a few lines of text which are then commented upon improvisationally.
Life Born in 1972, Imani Sanga was educated at Kidugala Lutheran Seminary, University of Dar es Salaam.
Jose Maceda collected audio records materials of traditional music amongst various populations in Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia, part of these audio archives are deposited in the CNRS – Musée de l’Homme audio archives in France (a digitized version is available online).
In 1984, he received his shihan master teaching license and professional name, Yohmei, from Yamaguchi—the first of only two non-Japanese ever accredited by Yamaguchi.
Hugo Orellana's Website, Written by Yina Hurtado Bonilla Videos Video Hugo Orellana painter (by Kuyayky) on YouTube, video when He interprets a beautiful song in Quechua and Spanish.
Grandson of a rabbi, Levi's attempt to submit a PhD thesis at the University of Turin on the music in Italian synagogues was thwarted by the rise to power of Fascism and the spread of anti-Semitism in Italy.
His parents, teachers and music lovers, raised him in Mechelen where he studied piano and harmony at the local music school (later renamed a conservatory).
Studies at the National Conservatory in Quito followed; he then became a military bandmaster, serving in various locations throughout Ecuador.
A systematic musicologist asks general questions about music from the perspective of relevant disciplines (psychology, sociology, acoustics, philosophy, physiology, computer science) (see systematic musicology).
In 1925 she graduated from the Music Academy in Sofia, and in 1931 she studied in Berlin with Erich Moritz von Hornbostel and Robert Lachmann.
He collaborated with the Centro Nazionale Studi di Musica Popolare at the National Academy of Santa Cecilia in Rome and with other Italian ethnomusicologists working in the field, such as Giorgio Nataletti.
Under successive dynasties, shamanism was gradually relegated to a popular or folk status with the arrival of Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism.
Selected compositions Nketia's musical compositions include: Adanse Kronkron Morbid Asem Monna N’Ase Monkafo No.
Ephrem the Syrian (notably the acrostic hymn Iso maaran m'siha on the name Iso M'siha, i.e., Jesus the Messiah), and the Syriac translation Sabbah lesan of the Latin hymn Pange Lingua by St.
Recorded with the Shanghai Quartet for the album Lost Style – Ge Gan-ru, New Albion Records 134 (2007).
He also integrates the ideologies of spokespeople from the autistic self-advocacy movement, and scholars, scientists, and disability rights advocates who represent a broad range of positions and epistemic schools of thought.
History The journal was originally established as the African Music Society Newsletter in 1948, and renamed itself African Music in 1954, in the same year as the International Library of African Music.
Scholarly work and contributions Becker completed a bachelor's degree in music at the University of Michigan before completing the doctorate there in 1972.
Usually, more than four consecutive notes rising in pitch indicates foreign influence, except for some cases as the music of Bemba tribe.
He was released from Aiud Prison in January 1962, sent into internal exile to a village near Slobozia.
Examples of his work housed at the Canadian Music Centre include: Colloquies (flute & orchestra) Concerto for viola and string orchestra (1957) Five Pieces for Bassoon & Piano Kyoto Landscapes (large orchestra) Night (chorus & string quartet plus double bass) Quartet No.
In the study of folklore, Antoni wrote a seven-volume work on Albanian folk music from Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and South Morava.
The diversity of Bantu Music is a consequence of common racial heritage in areas of comparative isolation.
Although his most famous works date from the late 19th century, Mokranjac continued composing during the 1900s.
As part of the ILAM, Tracey made over 35,000 recording of African folk music during multiple recording tours throughout Africa.
Contribution to knowledge of West African music In the 1960s, scholars and writers began to seriously examine the traditional music of West Africa in their search for the roots of the blues, jazz, and the other music forms that had emerged in the African diaspora.
From 2012, he lectured in Beijing for postgraduate seminars at China Conservatory, and in 2015 was a visiting professor in Brazil with the music PhD program at Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul.
He has conducted research on the analysis of complex music systems, including Japanese court music, the Turkish Ottoman Classical Music system, and many other musical traditions in which he is fluent as a musical performer, linguist, and archivist.
Among living American masters of the short story, Paul Bowles is sui generis." The historic building of the American Legation in Tangier includes an entire wing devoted to Paul Bowles.
He and 477 other internees were deported in January 1942 on board of SS Van Imhoff, bound for Ceylon.
Overview By a royal decree of January 20, 1932, a commission was appointed to organize the congress.
In particular, Koen focused on the restorative properties of maddâh as it was utilized in Badakhshan, Tajikistan.
When the National Conservatory of Music in Cuenca was established in 1937, he took over its leadership; later he directed the conservatory in Guayaquil as well.
The primitivist art movement created a progressive model of art, in which art began with Indigenous art forms and ultimately developed into Western modern art, therefore positing that Western art forms were more socially developed than those of Indigenous peoples.
He was licensed to conduct research by Paris-Sorbonne University under the supervision of André Leroi-Gourhan.
In 2008, she returned to Columbia as an associate professor, before being promoted to full professor in 2015 and serving as chair of the department of music from 2018 to 2021.
Geneviève Massignon (Paris, 27 April 1921 – 6 June 1966) was a French linguist, ethnologist, musicologist and historian who studied Acadian speech, as well as dialects and linguistic communities in Brittany, in the west of France and in Corsica.
Second, the shaman's attention is directed inwards towards her or his visualization of the spirit world and communication with the spirits, and not outwards to any listeners who might be present.
55–66, Rawat Publications, Jaipur, 1995 “Musicians for the People: The Manganiyars of Western Rajasthan”, Karine Schomer, Joan L.
2010s Historical Approaches The historical approach in ethnomusicology is a trend that believes in understanding the past in order to understand the present.
In 1977, Maceda aimed to study Philippine folk songs which he describes as having more focus on rhythm rather than time measure.
Harry Brauner (24 February 1908 - 11 March 1988) was a Romanian ethnomusicologist, composer, and professor of music.
In 2009, the Nketia Music Foundation was formed "to promote the conservation and development of Ghana’s Creative Legacy in contemporary contexts, and the use of the works of Emeritus Prof.
References External links Official website (NOTE: This is the official site of "Music Time in Africa," the show created and hosted by Leo Sarkisian for many years.
A prolific artist he continued to explore new styles in Huayta Huasi his museum-house in the remote town of Ataura in Jauja.
Between 1986 and 1987, she was head of the music department and later head of the music unit in the cultural studies centre.
Alejandro Luis Madrid-González (born August 25, 1968) is an American music scholar, cultural theorist, and professor, whose research focuses on Latino and Latin American musics and sound practices.
Initially wanting to be a flamenco dancer, Melchor pressured her at age 7 into taking piano lessons with María Luisa Lecompte, the last companion of violinist Claudio Brindis de Salas Garrido.
One example comes from Ghanaian ethnomusicologist Kofi Agawu; in Representing African Music: Postcolonial Notes, Queries, Positions, he details how the concept of "African rhythm" has been misrepresented – "African" music is not a homogenous body as it is often perceived by Western thought.
In 1966, she was expected to attend the Franco-Acadian festivities at Belle-Île-en-Mer to commemorate the bicentennial of the Acadian settlements on the island.
It was eventually published in Chinese, Mongolian, and English including Erdenechimeg's focus on the interrelated aspects of the poem with instrumental music, song, art, and drama.
In addition to recordings on the New Albion and Albany record labels, she has released two recordings on her own label Sonic Crossroads.
Persian version, with corrections, “Mahfum-e ‘āšeq dar farhang-e musiq’i-ye šomāl-e Xorāsān,” Mahoor Music Quarterly, IV/17 (2002), pages 9–29.
Selected publications Dances of Bulgaria (1951) Błogarskije narodnyje tancy (1958) Le manque de coïncidences entre la figure chorégraphique et la phrase mélodique (1960) L'ethnomusicologie et Bulgarie de 1954 à nos jours (1960) La classification des mélodies en Bulgarie (1965) == References ==
Personal Life and Death Rhodes met his future wife, Lillian Hansen Martin, while she was working as an executive secretary to Harold Fowler McCormick, well-known as a music patron.
For example, in the south of Tuva and in Mongolia the khoums, or jaw harp is commonly used in shaman sing.
Late career and death During the 1960s, Morales conducted a late night program at Radio Rebelde featuring vocalist Gina Martín.
Hugh Tracey saw the importance of music within culture when he worked a tobacco farm in Southern Rhodesia.
From 1966 to 2011, she continued to work at the institute, becoming a senior researcher for the academy in 1971.
In addition to performing thousands of concerts, offering music classes, organizing the Composers Forum Laboratory, hosting music festivals and creating 34 new orchestras, employees of the FMP researched American traditional music and folk songs, a practice now called ethnomusicology.
His scores can be found in The Kaufmann Archive at the William and Gayle Cook Music Library at Indiana University, in Harvard University's Houghton Library., and in the Moldenhauer Archives, Spokane, Washington.
It can be as little as a brass duo of tuba and trumpet, to a quite complete wind orchestra consisting of number of wind and percussion instruments.
Abel Periyappuram, the founder of the Kalabhavan and the key in the transition of the Syro-Malabar liturgy from Syriac (Aramaic) to Malayalam.
Jon Borthwick Higgins (September 18, 1939 – December 7, 1984), also known in India as Higgins Bhagavatar, was an American musician, scholar, and teacher known principally for his rare skill as a non-Indian in the field of Carnatic music.
She then earned her Doctor of Philosophy degree in ethnomusicology at Indiana University Bloomington.
Methodological and ethical issues There are many methodological and ethical issues that arise from research in ethnochoreology.
Journalist Anxious to maintain contact with his homeland, Launis regularly contributed to various Finnish newspapers including Helsingin Sanomat, Uusi Suomi, and Suomen Kuvalehti.
History The Fumio Koizumi Trust was established by Koizumi Mieko, widow of Professor Koizumi Fumio (1927–83), on October 11, 1989, to commemorate her husband's lifelong devotion to ethnomusicology and to honour individuals and organizations who have made significant contributions to this field.
Shona music refers to the traditional and contemporary musical practices of the Shona people of Zimbabwe, one of the country’s largest ethnic groups.
Holdings Holdings of the Archives of Traditional Music are cataloged at the collection level as MARC records within the Indiana University online library catalog, IUCAT.
As of January 2019, the International Council for Traditional Music is officially represented in 129 countries or regions.
Thyagaraja Swamý (an important composer of Carnatic music), was extraordinary considering the fact that it is a difficult kriti for even the people with knowledge of the Telugu language in which it is composed.
His works show particular influence from the musics of South and Southeast Asia, particularly the gamelan music of Java.
African Music is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal published by the International Library of African Music.
His Japanese publications include Shakuhachi Odessei—Ten no Neiro ni Miserarete (「尺八オデッセイ—天の音色に魅せられて」Kawade Shobo Shinsha, 2000, translated and adapted into English as The Single Tone).
They describe treble notes as "small." Meanwhile, bass notes are described as "great." Declining melodies are preferred in Bantu music.
Honours and awards Works Mokranjac published reviews, wrote prefaces, articles, and other journalistic works, often anonymously.
Ocora also is a word from the language of the Timucuan people who once inhabited Florida USA, meaning "place of gathering." On 14 April 1962 SORAFOM became the Office de coopération radiophonique (OCORA), whose members became advisors.
Apart from his producing and editing activities, Matteo Silva is also a visual artist, professor, author of essays, poetry and prose.
+ CD (Diapason d'Or recipient) Instruments de musique du monde, (Paris, Hervé de La Martinière, coll.
María Ester Grebe Vicuña (July 11, 1928 – November 1, 2012) was a Chilean anthropologist and ethnomusicologist focusing on the Indigenous peoples of Chile.
From 1952 to 1962 she was the director of the Institute of Musicology of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
Victor (France) Dreams of Spain Archived 2018-05-11 at the Wayback Machine - Hungaroton (Budapest) Concerto for an ending century Archived 2018-05-11 at the Wayback Machine - Hungaroton (Budapest) Truath Melech.
The Case of DJ Kermit’s ‘Gober,’” in Media, Sound, and Culture in Latin America and the Caribbean, ed.
Two years later, in 1965, Leo launched Music Time in Africa, a "weekly program that features traditional and contemporary music from all of Africa." Sarkisian retired from VOA in 2012, at age 91.
He interprets the socially predetermined and meaningful ways of movement and, of course, the history of dance groups in specific societies.
Из моје домовине) Rukovet IV ("Mirjano!"): From My Homeland, for solo (bass-baritone or tenor) with accompaniment of mixed choir, piano, and castanets, 1890 (IV Руковет („Мирјано”!).
Born in Karlsbad, Bohemia (then part of Austria-Hungary), he trained in Prague and Berlin before fleeing the Nazi persecution of Jews to work in Bombay until Indian independence.
Additionally, a collection of Rhodes' recordings and other materials is held by the Library of Congress.
The elder of them was the opera singer and folklorist Antonija Šuštar (1894–1988), also known as Tončka Marolt.
History In 1972, while on foreign study in Tokyo, Blasdel was introduced to the Kinko Style shakuhachi master (later designated "Living National Treasure") Goro Yamaguchi, whom he studied with until Yamaguchi’s death in 1999.
José Montserrat Maceda (31 January 1917 – 5 May 2004) was a Filipino ethnomusicologist and composer.
Antonello Colimberti (ed) (in Italian) Musiche e sciamani, Textus, Milan 2000 Shamanism, The Spirit World of Korea, eds Chai-shin Yu and R.Guisso, Asian Humanities Press, Berkeley California 1988 Vilmos Diószegi, Tracing Shamans in Siberia Anthropological Publications, Netherlands 1968.
One such project was on tattoo practices of Rapa Nui, where she explored its significance for men and women, such as Ana Eva Hei.
In Oxford Music Online References External links Literature by and about Jürgen Elsner in the German National Library catalogue
He also serves on the editorial boards of Analytical Approaches to African Music, and is the co-founder of the Animal Song Collective, which investigates animal song through interdisciplinary approaches.
An album of the same name was issued on Folkways Records in 1959 as an accompaniment to provide examples of the artists and styles discussed.
Patwardhan, graduating from the Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda; he holds degrees in Christian theology and psychology, the latter with a Gold medal from the Faculty of Arts of M.
She is the author of four books on Tuvan Music, including the last book on the musical culture of Tuva in the twentieth century.".
At age 12 he began to play piano at the silent cinema, and a year later he was playing in private dance parties as a reserve pianist.
Around the same time, while working as an apprentice for his father, who was a tailor, he began to attend black societies such as the Club Bohemio.
Krehbiel's book Afro-American Folksongs in 1917 for the Journal of American Folklore; and in 1918 with co-author Herman K.
In his view, this new context results in music creation and consumption increasingly transcending earlier connections to space and time, engendering both a blurring and reactionary institutionalization of local genres and historical styles.
Between 1944 and 1980, Machida created an anthology of nine volumes of transcriptions and song notations from Hokkaido to Kyushu areas, released by Nippon Hôsô Kyôkai (NHK).
Recapitulation Only in the decade before his death was there a renewed interest in his musical output from the 1930s and '40s.
The Wailua Bellstone, located near the Poliahu Heiau at the Wailua Complex of Heiaus and made of reddish basalt, produces a hollow bell-like sound when struck with a cobble.
Later while Haskell was attending graduate school in ethnomusicology they collaborated on a box set of spoken word introductions paired with original songs by anarchist folk musician and storyteller Utah Phillips before founding Free Dirt Records in 2006.
I dropped the scientific point of view to a large extent, and I became…um, an advocate of the Navajos, rather than an objective viewer.
In writing it, Charters drew on articles in Record Research magazine, recordings, and his own field research.
The SEM website offers free access to the last fifteen issues of the journal (currently volumes 43-57 from 1999 to 2013), the student newsletter, and on-going lists of Ographies, including bibliographies, discographies, and dissertations.
Early life and education Born in Andover, Massachusetts, Higgins had his high school education at Phillips Academy, where his father taught English and his mother taught music for many years.
In Norway Rocks that ring when struck are mentioned in historical documents from Norway; about 10 have been identified.
Career McDermott taught at the Hampton Institute (now Hampton University) in Virginia (1966–67) and at the Wisconsin Conservatory of Music in Milwaukee where he served for a time as dean and director (1967–1977).
Later life After retirement, McDermott was a visiting professor at The College of William and Mary (2002); Indonesian Institute of the Arts (2002–03); University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur (2006); Osaka City University (2005); and University of Technology (MARA), Shah Alam, Malaysia (2009).
He founded the Bombay Chamber Music Society along with others like Mehli Mehta (Kaufmann also taught the Mehtas' son Zubin Mehta).
Among other studies based on his field work in Arabic countries, he published a description and photographs of the Work Songs of the Gulf Pearl Divers of Bahrain.
Early life Makubuya was born in the town of Gayaza (located 30 km from Kampala, near Lake Victoria, in the Buganda region of Uganda), and is a member of the Baganda ethnic group.
This musical ensemble took the form of a modest orchestra and was developed in the 19th century, pioneered by Augustijn Michiels better known as Mayor Jantje, in the Citeureup area (or Citrap) on the outskirts of Batavia.
Meanwhile, the music of Zulu tribes doesn't use drums due to the lack of material on the grazing grounds of Natal.
Puerto Rico A stone known as the Piedra de la Campana ("Bell Stone") in the Río Grande de Loíza near Gurabo, Puerto Rico stands on top of two other stones and is said to have been used as a bell by the indigenous people.
Bloomington, Indiana University Press, 1975) He also published a number of research papers and record reviews especially in ethnomusicology.
She is known for her pioneering research on traditional Slovenian folk dances and her long association with the Institute of Ethnomusicology of the Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts.
People living in the plains use to compose unaccompanied singing music, while people in the woods use to play drums and xylophones.
2005 - Ethnomusicology and African Music – Collected papers, Volume One: Modes of Inquiry and Interpretation.
Issues are available online at IU ScholarWorks Folklore and Folk Music Archivist ISSN 0430-8840; OCLC: 1569577.
The two friends revolutionized the bagpipe in the bagadoù, which would create conflicts with Bodadeg ar Sonerion.
Nationalism in music education Hebert co-edited with Alexandra Kertz-Welzel (professor and chair, University of Munich), the 2012 book Patriotism and Nationalism in Music Education.
In the early 1970s, he started his career as an avant-garde jazz percussionist and came to collaborate with Kondō Toshinori, Takagi Mototeru, Oki Kano, and others.
Ethno-musicology; a study of its nature, its problems, methods and representative personalities; to which is added a bibliography.
In 1958 a Rockefeller Fellowship enabled him to go to the United States, where he attended Columbia University (studying with Henry Cowell), the Juilliard School, and Northwestern University, studying musicology and composition.
By October 1995, she was worked under Hollaender International Artists of Management and was making an opera arias CD for MGM Records in Europe.
During the War, he was drafted and assigned to a surveillance position on the Yser river, but he developed pneumonia and was evacuated to Davos in 1917.
Western dichotomies of art dance vs non-art dance, professional vs hobbyist, and religious vs secular do not necessarily apply to other societies.
Her master's thesis Coiled Basketry in British Columbia and Surrounding Region, written with Haeberlin and James A.
Biography Early life and start On January 19, 1931, she was born in East Harlem, Manhattan to Puerto Rican immigrants José de la O and Margot Melchor of Vega Alta.
Another aspect of ethnomusicology which Merriam sought to make clear in The Anthropology of Music is the overarching goal of the field of ethnomusicology.
Compositions Weisgarber's catalog of compositions consists of 450 separate works from short songs to symphonies, as well as a number of scores for film, radio and television.
Tsitsikian performed throughout the Republics of the former Soviet Union and in 27 countries around the world.
In 1981, while studying native folk music from Asia and Africa, he met the shamisen player Momoyama Harue, the last disciple of Tomomichi Soeda.
She got her start in Ghent, Belgium, appearing at the Music Festival in Santiago de Compostela, Spain for composer Alberto Ginastera.
Smith and Haskell ventured to create a label where they could work with young artists making traditionally rooted music and showcase often overlooked material like spoken word.
Late life and death In March 2005, he received the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres award, granted by the French government.
As the founder and president of the Classical Guitar Society of Nepal, he organized the first Ethnomusicology Seminar and International Guitar Festivals in Nepal that were attended by luthiers, scholars and guitarists from Germany, Japan, the USA, Finland, Liechtenstein, and Thailand.
Historical and comparative scholarship on Indonesian tone measurement situates ombak within a longer tradition of documenting gamelan tunings and their diversity across ensembles and time.
In 1906, he created a mixed chorus version of The Glorification of Saint Sava, which was originally composed for a male chorus in 1893.
Kilmer and Ricardo Eichmann, (ed.) Studies in Music Archaeology III, 2001, VML Verlag Marie Leidorf GmbH., Germany ISBN 3-89646-640-2 Engel, Carl, The Music of the Most Ancient Nations, Wm.
Music career In the early 1960s, Bebey moved to France and started work in the arts, establishing himself as a musician, sculptor, and writer.
In several instances, it is related to the belief system (yoiks of the Sami, some other shamanic songs and rituals, overtone singing of some cultures).
Tanjidor bandsmen usually perform in traditional Betawi weddings to deliver the groom or take part in parades as a group as a general rule, with the band led by a bandmaster or conductor.
He directed the gamelan and later invited Javanese musicians to teach (including Midiyanto, Supardi, and Darsono).
In France: stage performance of Kullervo (1940, Nice, Palais de la Méditerranée) with radio broadcasts on Paris-Inter and Radio Monte-Carlo (1938–1940).
Josephine Evangeline de la O, known as Eva de la O, (January 19, 1931 — May 4, 2019) was an American soprano singer and director of Música de Cámara.
Mexican artist and anthropologist Miguel Covarrubias lived and researched in Bali in the 1930s with his wife Rose, where they became friends with Spies.
Thomas Aquinas; these chants had up to then been preserved in the main only in oral tradition; among the singers is Fr.
Autism-related therapy Michael Bakan, professor of ethnomusicology and Florida State University, has spearheaded research efforts to apply ethnomusicology to autism, and conceptually sees the practice as a form of applied ethnomusicology.
John Peabody Harrington collection of Southern Valley Yokuts cylinder recordings (AFC 1981/024) (Cylinder).
Scholarship and Fieldwork For several years, Rhodes was a choir master and conductor for the American Opera Company and also assistant conductor of the Cincinnati Summer Opera Company.
This atlas formed the basis of a dialectometric analysis of the dialect area performed by Liliane Jagueneau.
Life Born in Istanbul, Münir Nurettin Beken was named after the famous Turkish singer and composer Münir Nurettin Selçuk.
She then undertook similar volunteer recovery work with LSU students in Haiti following the 2010 earthquake there.
He was eventually permitted entry, possibly to avert an 'intervention from the deity', that Kanaka Dasa's legend spoke of.
He is the author of the books Rituals of Power and Rebellion (2001) and From the Horse's Mouth (2003), a socio-cultural history of calypso from 1900 to 2003.
In oral cultures in which survival involves close contact with nature, sound often connects inner feelings to features of the natural environment.
“Landscapes and Gimmicks from the 'Sounded City': Listening for the Nation at the Sound Archive." Sound Studies.
"Sounds to Grow On" is hosted by Michael Asch, Professor Emeritus of Anthropology at the University of Alberta and the son of Moses Asch.
As composer he published the electronic music albums Solaris (1991) Ad Infinitum (1993) and Omphalos (2001) soundtracks of his sound&light installations.
He has lent a multidisciplinary approach to the writing and publication of numerous articles discussing a wide range of musical topics and ideas.
While at the college, she represented it in various choir competitions and won seven solo singing competitions at the Enugu Festival of Arts.
In the late 1940s, she began producing children’s musical programs on the radio, often using preschool choruses accompanied by children’s orchestras.
Later life Roberts moved to Tryon, North Carolina, in part to care for her father, after a 1935 funding slash eliminated her position at Yale.
Their younger son, DeWitt von Ballmoos, leads Liberia's National Social Security and Welfare Corporation.
At the same time, Morales was part of several successful big bands such as the eleven-piece Los Melódicos, an orchestra that he directed by 1939 and also featured Chano Pozo on quinto.
In an interview in later years, she cited both her health and an early interest in Native American culture as the motivations for her travels to the southwestern United States.
The Anthology of American Folk Music appeared on Folkways, as did the accompanying album to The Country Blues by Samuel Charters.
Through use of “a broad spectrum of geocultural examples, the volume includes several engaging strategies for using and writing about history in order to understand the world's musics”.
He began learning to play the setar at an early age from his father, Ali Asghar Safvat, who also played the ancient instrument.
Music, Culture, and Ideas in Post-Revolutionary Mexico (2009) ISBN 978-1592136940 Edited volumes Experimentalisms in Practice.
The following people are known for their scholarly contributions to the ethnomusicology of the music of Africa: V.
Jackson then published "Declaration of Taking Twice: The Fazendeville Community of the Lower Ninth Ward," in American Anthropologist in 2006.
Academic appointments Blum's teaching career began at Western Illinois University (1967–73), followed by an assistant professorship at University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign until 1977.
After graduating in 1986, he spent three years conducting the Conservatory Orchestra and also recorded many television programs for TRT, the Turkish state radio and television network.
In 1864 he became a schoolteacher in Strážnice, later taking teaching positions in Olomouc, Těšín, and the first Czech Gymnasium in Brno (1869).
The Mongolian composer Tsogzolyn Natsagdorj worked on an opera of this poem as a result of this book.
From 1982 to 1983, she provided consulting services to the William Ransom Hogan Jazz Archives at Tulane University in New Orleans, Louisiana, where she catalogued the archives' gospel collection and organized a gospel music conference.
Emperor Haile Selassie designated Ashenafi as “National Composer” and awarded him the Haile Selassie I Foundation Grant for Outstanding Achievement in Cultural Affairs that same year.
Scholars such argued that the use of the Little Man as the official logo for the Society reinforced too many negative stereotypes, and the cons of replacing the old logo were not sufficient to outweigh this.
With La Villemarqué's descendant, Laurent was able to obtain many original collections of notebooks which helped in the writing of Barzaz Breiz.
Among others, Safvat studied with two other Masters of Persian classical music, Abolhasan Saba and Haji Agha Mohammad Irani Mojarrad.
Brauner was implicated in the show trial against Lucrețiu Pătrășcanu, and spent 12 years in prison, most of it in solitary confinement.
The IODD enables the vendor to describe variants of products, which are equal in their parameters, process and diagnosis data and communication but vary in their order number.
Government subsidies in the energy and food production industries keep true costs low through artificially cheap product pricing.
Young Professional memberships are available to individuals who graduated from their most recent degree within the past three years.
In June 1988 in Washington, DC, the group formalized its structure and chose the name "Mobility 2000".
External links AxSTREAM for turbomachinery design Preliminary Design of LP Gas Turbine of Aircraft Engine from International Journal of Gas Turbine, Propulsion and Power Systems
This did not prevent the door plug from detaching on Alaska Airlines Flight 1282 on January 5, 2024, which has been attributed to missing bolts in the upper guide fittings and the lower hinge assemblies.
A DoS value of 100% meaning that demand and capacity are equal and no further traffic is able to progress through the junction.
The impacts can include material efficiency include reducing energy demand, reducing Greenhouse gas emissions, and other environmental impacts such as land use, water scarcity, air pollution, water pollution, and waste management.
See also ACARM ACARM-ng Bottom-up and top-down approaches OSSIM Prelude Hybrid IDS Snort == References ==
Early versions of the software had three modules: road notes (where a surveyor enters their field notes), grade design, and plan view.
Actuators: Actuators are devices that are used to adjust the process based on the decisions made by the controller.
In work measurement, a standard data system (SDS) is a database of normal time values, usually organized by work elements that can be used to establish time standards for tasks composed of work elements similar to those in the database.
Parallel task scheduling (also called parallel job scheduling or parallel processing scheduling) is an optimization problem in computer science and operations research.
This provides better performance than de-serializing into a C structure first and then copying the data to a .NET structure afterwards.
Historical penetration patterns of automobile electronic control systems and implications for critical raw materials recycling.
Generally speaking, the actors involved in the symbiosis at Kalundborg exchange material wastes, energy, water, and information.
In general, these systems plan on a model of the world rather than planning directly on processed sensor output.
Apart from the actuation of shutdown valves and blowdown valves, outputs include isolation of electrical sources, power shutdown, activation of fire pumps, etc.
Manufacturing operations are significantly more mature than distribution when considering lean practices.
It was founded in 2009 and is focused on providing automation and manufacturing software for high-tech industries, such as semiconductor, electronics, medical devices and industrial equipment.
Standard time is the amount of time that should be allowed for an average worker to process one work unit using the standard method and working at a normal pace.
He completed his Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in mechanical engineering in 1997 under the supervision of Jianjun Shi and Jun Ni.
In 2005 the SAFETEA-LU (Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users) surface transportation spending bill was signed into law.
In both diagrams, allowed movements are shown in solid arrows (protected movements) and dashed arrows (permitted movements).
Career Salhe has participated in international events, representing both Chile and Palestine on various occasions.
(1997), "Material and Energy balancing in the Process Industries", Elsevier, ISBN 0-444-82409-X Babu, B.
Bird inspired BFRs can be feathered to increase the angle of attack range over which the prototype can operate before stalling.
However, the number of type-Z items is limited: If D > 12/5, then there are at most 5 type-Z items (2 in the last regular 2-bin and 3 in the last regular 3-bin; the items in the last regular 4-bin are all type-X4).
He also argued that the repetitive work produced by Taylorism might actually give rise to revolutionary thoughts in workers' minds.
Terminology The term ecoleasing has been used by William McDonough and Michael Braungart in their book Cradle_to_Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things.
Identification and reference designation Based on STANDARD ANSI/ISA S5.1 and ISO 14617-6, the P&ID is used for the identification of measurements within the process.
Consider, for example, a case involving the production of multiple films, each comprising several scenes that necessitate the participation of one or more actors.
Minimizing the maximum completion time (makespan) Minimizing the maximum completion time (P|| C max {\displaystyle C_{\max }} ) is NP-hard even for identical machines, by reduction from the partition problem.
Materials are recovered by which the company can make new products, so the material costs for this new product are much lower for the company.
However, this definition is better known today by the terms CAx and product lifecycle management (PLM).
In either case, the following identity holds for all inclinations up to 90 degrees: tan ⁡ α = sin ⁡ α 1 − sin 2 ⁡ α {\displaystyle \tan {\alpha }={\frac {\sin {\alpha }}{\sqrt {1-\sin ^{2}{\alpha }}}}} .
In the 1990s, Norway developed the NORSOK Standards, among which the I-002 Standard was specifically designed for SASs in the petroleum industry.
Maintenance of traffic training in the United States is provided by the American Traffic Safety Services Association.
Nevertheless, they are not appropriate on steep slopes and their construction generally requires extensive space and accessibility for heavy vehicles.
The CNC computer then translates the set of instructions into a standardized format of G-code and M-code commands and follow the instructions in the order they are written left to right or top to bottom.
a pneumatic tube traffic counter is used to check the total entering volumes at an intersection to affirm the work done by technicians doing a manual count of the turn volumes).
Of course, an estimated optimum point need not be optimum in reality, because of the errors of the estimates and of the inadequacies of the model.
During the same period of time, many of Japan's subway lines in operation also saw similar overcrowding levels, which was similarly only ameliorated by building new extra lines.
According to EU Commission the EU needs to act now (2011) to get on track to achieve its target while the EU is on course to achieve only half of the 20% objective.
An industrial PC is a computer intended for industrial purposes (production of goods and services), with a form factor between a nettop and a server rack.
In 2020 an analysis of 73 case studies was made about the experiences companies have made when applying MFCA including success factors and obstacles.
MTM was released in 1948 and today exists in several variations, known as MTM-1, MTM-2, MTM-UAS, MTM-MEK and SAM-analysis.
These communities of people could share photos, swap their thoughts on the highways in their areas and "debate the finer points of interchange design".
It is based on Bayesian inference to interpret the observations/data acquired during the experiment.
Enron Modbus – another extension of standard Modbus developed by Enron with support for 32-bit integer and floating-point variables, and historical and flow data.
Postgraduate curriculum In the United States, the postgraduate degree earned is the Master of Science (M.Sc.) in Engineering Administration (MEA).
The historical data serves to meet an American Petroleum Institute (API) industry standard for how data should be stored.
Flows typically are measured over a certain interval of time – e.g., the number of births over a day or month.
Relations to more specialized optimal design theory Linear theory If the model is linear, the prior probability density function (PDF) is homogeneous and observational errors are normally distributed, the theory simplifies to the classical optimal experimental design theory.
INFINITE Testbed The goal of the International Future Industrial Internet Testbed (INFINITE) is to develop software-defined infrastructures to drive the growth of Industrial Internet products and services.
This process, which is called Numerical Control (NC OR CNC), is what came to be known as 20th century Computer-aided manufacturing (CAM), and it originated in the 1960s.
Honeywell-Measurex Honeywell kept the name Measurex for a number of years after the acquisition, giving the subsidiary the name Honeywell-Measurex.
A standard Ethernet controller can be used for applications with line topology, bus cycle times greater than 500 us, and microsecond range synchronization.
Applications are to composite indicators, use of biofuels, innovation, bioplastic, gender perspectives in urban household energy transition, and in the context of Post-normal science.
Additionally, even if there are no outages from the removal of a single component (N-1 resilience), there is a large window for a second attack or failure as it could take more than a year to replace a destroyed generator, because many generators and transformers are custom-built.
Autodesk subsequently released Autodesk Vehicle Tracking, which directly superseded AutoTrack in November, 2013.
“From human to transhuman: Technology and the reconstruction of the world,” Templeton lecture, October 22 (2007): 2007.
The Multi-Point Interface – Siemens (MPI) is a proprietary interface of the programmable logic controller SIMATIC S7 of the company Siemens.
In 2003, NTNU launched the first doctoral program in industrial ecology, followed by a master's program in 2004.
The Lang Factor is an estimated ratio of the total cost of creating a process within a plant, to the cost of all major technical components.
RS-232 RS-485 Leased phone line Satellite Ethernet Cellular See also Computer network Computer science Computing References External links BSAP basic details BSAP Programmers Reference
Fuel dumping is used primarily to reduce the weight of an aircraft to avoid a heavy, high-speed landing.
In this system, goods arrive at these points located within the city, where they are sorted and later distributed by bicycle.
appliances, ...) are rented to a client for a certain period of time after which he returns the goods so the company that made it can recycle the materials.
Schumann in 1928, to differentiate from premixed flame where fuel and oxidizer are premixed prior to burning.
School of Transportation Science and Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology (Chinese: 哈尔滨工业大学交通科学与工程学院) is one of nineteen schools of Harbin Institute of Technology, and the only school of transportation engineering within C9 League (an alliance of the top nine universities in China).
The AQuoSA project constitutes a modification to the Linux kernel enriching the process scheduler with EDF scheduling capabilities.
In 2004, he moved to Arizona State University, where he is now President's Professor, and Lincoln Professor of Engineering and Ethics.
Research Apley's research focuses on the interface of engineering modeling, statistical analysis, and data mining.
For data transfer via sliding contacts for mobile devices or optical or radio data transmission in open spaces, products from various manufacturers can be obtained, however they do not conform to any standard.
See also Analytic hierarchy process – car example Analytic network process Arrow's impossibility theorem Decision making Decision-making paradox Decision-making software Hierarchical decision process L.
Master communication to a new device starts with the maximum preamble length (20 bytes) and is later reduced once the preamble size for the current device is determined.
After WW2, both oil and coal burning steam locomotives were replaced by more efficient diesel engines and had been almost entirely phased out of service by 1960.
Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in: Ei Compendex Latindex Scopus Emerging Sources Citation Index References External links Official website
Owing to the complexity of the exploration process, researchers have proposed automated DSE where the exploration software is able to take decisions and come up with the optimal solution.
The flow data is made available externally through an electronic interface so that other computers can download the information for supervision, accounting and auditing.
Current topics are: Motion control and Safety functionality XML data exchange format standardizing the base data of IEC projects in software systems, as used for instance by AutomationML Benchmarking projects in order to have a good sophisticated benchmark standard.
The speed is the worker's private information, and we want to incentivize machines to reveal their true speeds.
Software can be custom written for a particular application or an off-the-shelf package such as TwinCAT, Wonder Ware, Labtech Notebook or LabView can be used to provide a base level of programming.
These SoftPLC systems can also be operated as virtual PLCs in virtualization platforms, such as software containers and hypervisors in real-time.
Comparison of notable CAD/CAM/CAE file viewers See also Comparison of computer-aided design software List of CAD file formats == References ==
This criticism can however be eliminated if the staff are rotated to different departments (involving different processes) thus developing a multi-skilled body of staff.
In this application, the elements to be ordered are jobs, the bound W is the number of jobs that can be scheduled at any one time, and the partial order describes prerequisite relations between the jobs.
However, the two types of interruption are both essential for the worker because it is almost impossible to work continually during a regular shift.
Applying these definitions to the diagram below, the goal is the parent of the four criteria, and the four criteria are children of the goal.
Manufacturing Automation Protocol (MAP) was a computer network standard released in 1982 for interconnection of devices from multiple manufacturers.
One may also be called a road enthusiast, road buff, roadfan or Roads Scholar, the latter a play on "Rhodes Scholar".
Uniform machine scheduling (also called uniformly-related machine scheduling or related machine scheduling) is an optimization problem in computer science and operations research.
The term mechatronics is typically used to refer to macroscopic systems, but futurists have predicted the emergence of very small electromechanical devices.
The most environmentally friendly product or manufacturing process (which is often also the most economically efficient) is not always the one automatically chosen by self-regulating corporations (e.g.
This type of feeder maximizes its efficiency by making the dropping, separating, and picking processes completely independent and simultaneous.
In steam-turbine installations, the term may also refer to a separate chamber or casing that houses turbine stop valves or control valves regulating steam flow into the turbine.
It is able to accept data produced by hand by surveyors, or produce approximations based upon other variables.
These build on the core set of specifications, and adds new common definitions that then are used in different companion specifications.
It meets SIL 3 of IEC 61508 and Category 4 of EN 954-1 or Performance Level "e" of the successor standard EN 13849-1.
V.(2004), "Process Plant Simulation", Oxford Universities Press, ISBN External links Process flowsheet development using process simulation software
Some complex systems’ behavior can be quite sensitive to initial conditions, which could lead to large errors from the correct values.
Lorenzo Mendoza has made a fortune selling beer and basic food items including flour, condiments, tuna fish, and wine through Empresas Polar, Venezuela's largest food company that was founded by his grandfather.
The Society for Health Systems (SHS) is a professional society within the Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers to the support the industrial engineering profession and individuals involved with improving quality and productivity within healthcare.
(Demand for food is inelastic.) This instead led to lower employment in the farming sector, which declined from 40% of Americans in 1900 to less than 2% in 2024.
Aberfoyle was investigating the possibility of using the Sirosmelt lance approach to improve the recovery of tin from complex ores, such as its mine at Cleveland, Tasmania, and the Queen Hill ore zone near Zeehan in Tasmania.
Associations INFORMS Institute of Industrial Engineers See also Industrial engineering Systems engineering Enterprise engineering Engineering management Business engineering References External links Bachelor of Engineering Administration Master of Engineering Administration (MEA)
By utilizing ORiN, various application software development and active multi-vender system construction by third-party companies are expected.
Francesco Merloni (17 September 1925 – 1 October 2024) was an Italian industrialist, engineer and politician who was a member of the Christian Democrats.
Pub Hub hosts hundreds of essential resources, including ISA standards, best practices, technical reports, InTech magazine archives, webinars, and e-books.
For any r >0, an algorithm with approximation ratio at most (7/6+2−r ) in time O ( n ( r m 4 + log ⁡ n ) ) {\displaystyle O(n(rm^{4}+\log {n}))} .
as a ratio of many parts run to one part rise, which is the inverse of the previous expression (depending on the country and the industry standards).
IndEcol is also the home for the European Editorial Office of Journal of Industrial Ecology, a journal produced by Yale University for the International Society for Industrial Ecology.
Polar holding Mendoza is the third generation of the family that controls Empresas Polar, Venezuela's largest privately held company, founded by his grandfather as a beer company in 1941.
Many elements of modern Industrial Ecology were commonplace in the industrial sectors of the former Soviet Union.
An extension to the CAN bus standard (CAN 2.0 B) allows extended frame ids of 29 bits, but in practice CANopen networks big enough to need the extended id range are rarely seen.
However, when the system is overloaded, the set of processes that will miss deadlines is largely unpredictable (it will be a function of the exact deadlines and time at which the overload occurs.) This is a considerable disadvantage to a real time systems designer.
Initially the door can be rotated to fit through the opening for the non-plug half so the whole door then opens outward; this is called a semi-plug door.
Customers form service expectations from past experiences, word of mouth and marketing communications.
In 1985, she became Director of the NYU Institute for Economic Analysis, a position she held until 1996 when she left to become Dean of the School of Humanities and Social Sciences at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
More recently, in the academic fields of organizational psychology and organizational behaviour, the basic technique has been developed into a detailed job analysis method for examining a range of different research questions.
Finally, several master courses about the application to the approach to energy system in various Southern African Universities have been elaborated under the Participia project.
The intersections of the U'- and D'- curves denote the shock's passages over the detector; i.e., the times when transitions between queued and unqueued states take place as the queue advances and recedes over the middle detector.
xAP system provides distributed and fault tolerant architecture which allows continuous operation of systems even in the event of component failures.
Coal projects The primary contradiction with adherence to green finance and BRI projects is the large amount of lending by Chinese banks for coal fired power plants.
This version includes new tools for customer relationship management (CRM) and a combination of detailed and simplified planning methods.
Some of these cities include Fresno, Los Angeles, Oakland, San Francisco, Pasadena, Alameda, and San Jose.
The Intel 8008 microprocessor was announced in 1972 and they realized it could read the tapes and process the data.
A technical drawing can be a computer model or hand-drawn schematic showing all the dimensions necessary to manufacture a part, as well as assembly notes, a list of required materials, and other pertinent information.
On the other hand, the integral of p ( θ ) log ⁡ p ( θ ) {\displaystyle p(\theta )\log p(\theta )} in the first form is constant for all ξ {\displaystyle \xi } , so if the goal is to choose the design with the highest utility, the term need not be computed at all.
Factory automation infrastructure describes the process of incorporating automation into the manufacturing environment and processing input goods into final products.
If server receives the request and is unable to execute it (e.g client requests to read a non-existent register), server will return an exception response to client to indicate the nature of the error.
A non-profit organization CIMOSA Association was later established to keep ownership of the CIMOSA specification, to promote it and to support its further evolution.
See also Material may be cut using off-line blanking dies, lasers, plasma, punches, shear blades, ultrasonic knives and water jet cutters.
Both banks consider green loans to mean financing projects in renewable energy or environmental protection.
They acknowledge that this model is only an approximation, but they use it because such a model is easy to estimate and apply, even when little is known about the process.
Construction and features It may include a range of computer ports and connectivity options such as serial port, EtherNet/IP, CAN bus, Modbus.
In the same year, the CC-Link Partner Association (CLPA) was formed to manage and oversee the network technology and support manufacturer members.
He retained his post in the next cabinet led by Prime Minister Carlo Azeglio Ciampi from 28 April 1993 to 9 May 1994.
Used to handle irregular supplies of parts from upstream equipment, creating a buffer store and smooth flow for further processes.
A half-time school for workers’ children was later established on the site, built in 1884 and closed in 1896.
The formula is frequently approximated without the denominator for low angle banking which may be suitable for nearly all situations except the tightest radius of highway onramps.
Negative bound – 2 The approximation factor of every truthful deterministic mechanism is at least 2.
It emphasized the importance of waste minimization, and the protection of the environment and human health, as a priority.
It is programmed by setting the configuration registers so that the components chain together into the desired behavior.
A critical constraint in this problem is that actors must be engaged for consecutive days; for instance, an actor cannot be contracted for filming on the first and third days without also being hired on the intervening second day.
For instance, task A might run from 2:00 to 5:00, task B might run from 4:00 to 10:00 and task C might run from 9:00 to 11:00.
Empirical example of wide moving jam and synchronized flow Vehicle speeds measured with road detectors (1 min averaged data) illustrate Kerner's definitions [J] and [S] (Fig.
Parts Part 1: General information and indexes is an introduction with information on registration numbers, rules for presentation and application, and an index to all symbols.
The OPC Data Access Specification is the first of a group of specifications known as the OPC Classic Specifications.
Engineering administration is considered to be a subdiscipline of industrial engineering and systems engineering.
These companies encourage (and often profit from) new technologies that support the transition from carbon dependence to more sustainable alternatives.
His mother was born in Bethlehem, Mandatory Palestine, arriving in Santiago when she was four years old as her family was searching for better opportunities.
See also xPL Protocol - A substantially similar home automation protocol References External links xAP Protocol Definition Archived 2011-06-14 at the Wayback Machine xAP Forum
Even with the regulatory and training burden, nuclear sources continue to be the core sensor for sheet moisture and basis weight.
Use Vibratory feeders are utilized by all industries, including the pharmaceutical, automotive, electronic, cosmetic, food, fast moving consumable goods (FMCG), packaging and metalworking industries.
This ensures that all information from the sender and the receiver is consistent without having to always transmit all parameters.
Red light violations result in a fine of €90, and one penalty point is recorded on the driver's license .
See also Anthropogenic metabolism Industrial metabolism Material flow analysis Social metabolism Urban metabolism References External links Institute of Environmental Science and Technology (ICTA) at the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona.
This means that this single item must be alone in an optimal bundle, contradicting the previous lemma.
For instance, a candle uses the heat of the flame itself to vaporize its wax fuel and the oxidizer (oxygen) diffuses into the flame from the surrounding air, while a gaslight flame (or the safety flame of a Bunsen burner) uses fuel already in the form of a vapor.
ISA has several different ways that volunteers get involved from the geographic section, training, events, and standards roots of the organization.
The IODD specification, the IODD guideline with examples and the IODD Checker are provided by the IO-Link Consortium.
Towne – American mechanical engineer and businessman, known as an early systematizer of management John Tregoning (1840s–1920s) – American mechanical engineer; wrote the first books on factory management Laura Tremosa – first Catalan woman to qualify as an industrial engineer W Edward Whitacre, Jr.
A particular speed can be chosen for a network to give enough time for communication with all the devices present in the network.
It is calculated per unit of GDP for the overall indicator and transports or value added for services and agriculture or private consumption for households.
It was developed by General Motors to combat the proliferation of incompatible communications standards used by suppliers of automation products such as programmable controllers.
Allenby offered a widely used definition of industrial ecology, describing it as a systems-based approach to sustainability that seeks to optimize material and energy flows across the entire life cycle of products, from raw materials to disposal.
However, it is not possible to have an automated DSE for all kinds of systems and hence there are semi-automated methods of DSE where the designer has to steer the tool after every iteration towards convergence.
Integrated mobility on demand services can contribute to modal shift to public transport and also addresses spatial inefficiencies of private transport.
Ratio of Flow to Capacity For priority junctions including roundabouts, the equivalent measure to DoS is the ratio of flow to capacity (RFC).
Industrial PCs have higher dependability and precision standards, and are generally more expensive than consumer electronics.
to a high of 77 percent in Scottsdale, Arizona." A 2014 study showed this number increase to 76 percent for support in Washington DC.
Plastic cannot be recycled several times without quickly degrading in quality; The total bottle recycling rate for 2020 was 27.2%, down from 28.7% in 2019.
FCA can help identify opportunities for streamlining services, eliminating inefficiencies, and facilitating cost-saving efforts through informed planning and decision-making.
(Key members of the Forum: FA device manufacture, software development company, system integrator company, etc.) ORiN Forum member companies participated various ORiN field application tests for three years.
Mobility on Demand also don't require ownership of private automobiles and gives convenient access to a range of travel modes while socialising the high initial costs of switching to electric-vehicle based mobility.
Ethics Mainstream economics has attempted to become a value-free 'hard science', but ecological economists argue that value-free economics is generally not realistic.
Critical Manufacturing MES uses technologies from Microsoft, providing an Internet application user experience.
From 1 November 1986 to 1 May 2014 he was a district administrator, after which he took over the post of Jens Marco Scherf (Alliance 90/The Greens).
Eagle Eye was able to demonstrate the GLS technology via the MSAT geostationary satellite built by Hughes Space and Electronics (now owned by Boeing).
Service quality and customer satisfaction The relationship between service quality and customer satisfaction has received considerable attention in academic literature.
The protocol is used over Ethernet almost all GE automation equipment supports the GE-SRTP protocol when equipped with an Ethernet port.
See also References External links Waste unit in DG Environment Directive 2008/98/EC on waste (Waste Framework Directive) Directorate General for the Environment Letsrecycle, Letsrecycle.com article on European Debate on Waste Hierarchy Getting to Zero Waste
The growing field of biodiversity finance began to emerge in 2008 in response to many specific proposals such as the Ecuadoran Yasuni proposal or similar ones in the Congo.
So, we made a little bit of money and had some fun with it." Later, the State of Washington offered free traffic processing services to cities, ending the need for private contractors, and all three principals moved on to other projects.
Sharing, borrowing and the organization of group services that facilitate and cater for communities needs could alleviate the requirement of ownership of many products.
Moon has also conducted research as a visiting scholar at the University of Calgary, collaborating with Edward A.
Although the procedures focus on fixed-time signal operation, advice is provided for their adjustment to the design and evaluation of traffic responsive signal control, including the traffic actuated method.
In February 2007, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (via CIBC Capital Partners) led the fourth round of funding totaling $10 million.
See also Engineering Just in time (business) List of engineering branches Manufacturing engineering == References ==
The basic flow within a process or use case can usually be described in a relatively small number of steps, often fewer than twenty or thirty, possibly using something like "structured English".
Automatic box-opening technology is designed to automatically open boxes on a conveyor or other "pass through" environment.
There are no 1-bins, since in a 1-bin, the size of the regular item must be at least p/2=61, while here the size of every item is less than 56.
She claims to study physical realities and constraints, not just monetary values, by using process and engineering data to model technology and resource use.
Podgorski, for the development of a ring laser gyroscopic system incorporated in a new series of commercial jetliners 1985 Richard K.
In 1872, he entered Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, New Hampshire, with the plan of eventually going to Harvard University and becoming a lawyer like his father.
This danger may concern hazards to life and limb, but may also involve the protection of economic assets.
The rotation speed of the carousel will normally allow an empty cylinder to be filled and the filling nozzle automatically disconnected by the time it reaches the ejection point where it is pushed onto the discharge conveyor.
Eco-efficiency is also implemented in more non-traditional ways, such as the integration of environmental criteria into the credit approval process; looking at "eco-integrated economic risks of a customer".
The other factor was the 1966 ALPAC report, which recommended that the government should stop funding research into machine translation.
Deeplearning4j also integrates with CUDA kernels to conduct pure GPU operations, and works with distributed GPUs.
The game development was financed in part by the Canada Media Fund and the first two episodes of Bot Colony were launched on Steam on June 17, 2014.
In February 2023, WRITER launched three large language models — Palmyra-Small with 128 million parameters, Palmyra-Base with 5 billion parameters, and Palmyra-Large with 20 billion parameters (named after the ancient Syrian city of Palmyra).
History Machine Translation (MT) systems are typically used by readers who do not need a thorough translation and want quick access to the foreign language.
While translations were rough, they represented a significant improvement in performance over fully manual work.
“Analyzing the Subjective Interestingness of Association Rules.” IEEE Intelligent Systems 15(5):47–55.
He was on the faculty of the University of Alberta between 1973 and 1988 and joined the faculty at the University of Rochester in 1988.
Recently researchers are assessing how well human-ratings and metrics correlate with (predict) task-based evaluations.
In 2014, The Department of Homeland Security proposed a federal database to combine all monitoring systems, which was cancelled after privacy complaints.
Trends Live-agent and Internet-based voice portals are converging, and the range of information they can provide is expanding.
Methods With imitation, the author attempts to mislead stylometry by matching their style to another author's.
A full and accurate list of language pairs supported by each product should be found on each of the product's websites.
Together with their negated counterparts, x ¯ k = ¬ x k = 1 − x k {\displaystyle {\bar {x}}_{k}={\lnot }{x}_{k}=1-x_{k}} , the features form a literal set L = { x 1 , … , x o , x ¯ 1 , … , x ¯ o } {\displaystyle L=\{x_{1},\ldots ,x_{o},{\bar {x}}_{1},\ldots ,{\bar {x}}_{o}\}} .
Languages Existing controlled natural languages include: Encoding IETF has reserved simple as a BCP 47 variant subtag for simplified versions of languages.
As part of the terms of exiting bankruptcy, Logical stopped manufacturing hardware and strictly became a software development company and value-added reseller of computer systems.
The corpus for annotation consists of 101,791 tokens covering an excerpt from the Bulgarian "Brown" Corpus modelled on the Brown Corpus.Francis Kucera An important feature of BulSemCor is that the samples are selected using heuristics that provide optimal coverage of ambiguous lexis.
One of them, the matrix for written data at LREC 2010 is as follows: English is the most studied language.
Moreover, linguistic analysis performed for unstructured text does not exploit the HTML/XML tags and the layout formats that are available in online texts.
A simple approach considers the power set of states of the DFA, and builds a directed graph where nodes belong to the power set, and a directed edge describes the action of the transition function.
In July 2024, TikTok owner ByteDance released Jimeng AI in China, through its subsidiary, Faceu Technology.
Brainware said its software "could relieve a company of 60 percent to 80 percent of the work of manually keying in information from unstructured documents," and serviced companies such as NEC, Mayo Clinic, Bechtel, Royal Dutch Shell, and Rabobank.
Education and career Goldwater is a 1998 graduate of Brown University, and worked as a researcher at SRI International from 1998 to 2000.
This is where the Brill method differs from other part of speech tagging methods such as those using Hidden Markov Models.
Introduction of the Documenting Hate News Index On 18 August 2017, ProPublica and Google announced the creation of the Documenting Hate News Index, which uses the Google Cloud Natural Language API for automated monitoring and collection of news stories about hate crimes and bias incidents.
FPN states correspond to execution states (see instruction steps) of an Earley-parser for RTNs without output, and FPN transitions correspond to possible translations of input symbols.
In automata theory, an alternating finite automaton (AFA) is a nondeterministic finite automaton whose transitions are divided into existential and universal transitions.
The brand name was revived in 2021 following the acquisition of SDL and Iconic Translation Machines Ltd.
The primary goal is to generate lexical variants for Natural language processing of patient clinical documents.
it is now convenient to construct a word-document matrix F, listing frequency of occurrence of word Wi in Document Dj...
Trafimovich called TDFA variants with and without lookahead TDFA(1) and TDFA(0) by analogy with LR parsers LR(1) and LR(0).
References External links DATR at the University of Sussex Archived 2016-03-04 at the Wayback Machine DATR repository and RFC compliant ZDATR implementation at Universität Bielefeld
If w = σ v {\displaystyle w=\sigma v} for σ ∈ Σ {\displaystyle \sigma \in \Sigma } and v ∈ Σ ∗ {\displaystyle v\in \Sigma ^{*}} , then T w ( q ) = T v ( T σ ( q ) ) {\displaystyle T_{w}(q)=T_{v}(T_{\sigma }(q))} .
Introduction Deeplearning4j relies on the widely used programming language Java, though it is compatible with Clojure and includes a Scala application programming interface (API).
At least one path must give answer yes or no, and if it is yes then the string is considered accepted.
provides sentiment and intent analysis to an array of companies using SaaS and cloud based technology.
Bibliography Contribution to the study of error in natural language man-machine dialogue /Contribution a l'etude de l'erreur dans le dialogue homme-machine en language naturel.
Starting from a sequence of characters, the lexical analyzer builds a sequence of language tokens (such as reserved words, literals, and identifiers) from which the parser builds a syntax tree.
Background A Tsetlin machine is a form of learning automaton collective for learning patterns using propositional logic.
Rewriting an input text to defeat stylometry, as opposed to consciously removing stylistic characteristics during composition, poses challenges in retaining textual meaning.
The contents are thus deliberately repetitive in most cases, represented by textual samples drawn from editorials, local and international news, cross-Taiwan Strait news, as well as news on finance, sports and entertainment.
Today it is available in desktop versions for translators (Translator Pro edition), and project managers (Project Manager edition), as well as site-installed and hosted server applications offering integration with the desktop versions and a web browser interface.
Kavita Annapoorani Ganesan is a Malaysian-born author, data scientist and AI consultant known for her research in the fields of artificial intelligence, machine learning, and natural language processing.
He was a Fellow of the American Association of Artificial Intelligence and was previously a Councilor of the organization.
She was also a postdoctoral research scientist at Stanford University (2003–2005) under the mentorship of Dan Jurafsky, where she was a part of the Stanford NLP Group.
The proof that the language of balanced (i.e., properly nested) parentheses is not regular follows the same idea.
After displaying the emotion, BowLingual then displays a phrase which has been categorized to fit within the range of each emotion.
I think AI suffered from that a lot, because it led to "Potemkin villages", things which - for the things they actually did in the demo looked good, but when you looked behind that there wasn't enough structure to make it really work more generally.
There are currently several active online forums in which users provide each other with independent advice and support on the software's functions, as well as many online tutorials created by professional trainers and active users.
While the company has focused primarily on the government software market, LCC has also used its technology to spin off three start-up companies.
In addition to these projects, Averbis was also involved in the following projects: Greenpilot is a virtual library, which provides technical information in the fields of nutrition, environment and agriculture.
Its state set is Q = Q ∃ ∪ Q ∀ {\displaystyle Q=Q_{\exists }\cup Q_{\forall }} where Q ∃ ∩ Q ∀ = ∅ {\displaystyle Q_{\exists }\cap Q_{\forall }=\emptyset } .
List See also Asia-Pacific Association for Machine Translation Association for Machine Translation in the Americas European Association for Machine Translation == References ==
(memoQ Translation Technologies), formerly Kilgray, a provider of translation management software established in 2004 and cited as one of the fastest-growing companies in the translation technology sector in 2012, and 2013.
Moreover, there has become increasingly more interfaces for voice computers with the advent of IoT-enabled devices, such as within cars or televisions.
It recognizes the finite set of all strings composed of arbitrarily many 1s, followed by arbitrarily many 0s, i.e.
A formal language is p-regular (also: a pure-group language) if it is accepted by a permutation automaton.
time: over the course of years, both the language and an author's knowledge and use of language will change.
Data Democratization Data Democratization is the democratizing data access in order to relieve data congestion and get rid of any sense of data "gatekeepers".
in mathematics, computer science, and linguistics from Cornell University (1998), a MSt in linguistics by Oxford University (1999) and a Ph.D.
This site takes a kind of stupid but funny concept and makes it just plain stupid." References External links Official website
Based in Millington Road, Cambridge the unit picked up on the conjectural role of an intermediate language with antecedents in the seventeenth century work of John Wilkins and George Dalgarno.
See also Automated paraphrasing Controlled natural language Language reform Lexical simplification Lexical substitution Semantic compression Text normalization Simplified English Basic English References Wei Xu, Chris Callison-Burch and Courtney Napoles.
Context of use This term is mainly used in the context of Machine translation and Natural language processing lexicons.
(October 2003) Automatic Content Extraction, Linguistic Data Consortium Archived 2013-09-25 at the Wayback Machine Automatic Content Extraction, NIST
Shallow parsing (also chunking or light parsing) is an analysis of a sentence which first identifies constituent parts of sentences (nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc.) and then links them to higher order units that have discrete grammatical meanings (noun groups or phrases, verb groups, etc.).
The problem of modeling the probability distribution p ( e | f ) {\displaystyle p(e|f)} has been approached in a number of ways.
This procedure produces a document-document similarity matrix which can in turn be used for the generation of document clusters...In addition to Borko and Salton, in 1964, F.W.
YA Lai, X Zhu, Y Zhang, M Diab, arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.08529, 2020 Readability of written medicine information materials in Arabic language: expert and consumer evaluation.
The first version of the system (METEO 1) went into operation on a Control Data CDC 7600 supercomputer in March 1977.
History The company was founded by Eugene Joseph in 2000, after his first company, Virtual Prototypes Inc., went public on the Toronto Stock Exchange in July 1999; that company currently operates as Presagis, a subsidiary of CAE.
An edition of a text might be normalized based on internal criteria, where orthography is standardized according to the language of the original, or external criteria, where the norms of a different time period are applied.
In December 2014, Lexalytics announced the latest iteration to its sentiment analysis engine, Salience 6.
In computational linguistics, word-sense induction (WSI) or discrimination is an open problem of natural language processing, which concerns the automatic identification of the senses of a word (i.e.
For example, an FSM definition including the full action's information is possible using state tables (see also virtual finite-state machine).
1976) is an American computer scientist and professor of computer science at the University of California, Berkeley.
He left Facebook at some time in 2019/2020 to join the Czech Institute of Informatics, Robotics and Cybernetics.
Linguistic research with corpora As well as distributing corpora and tools to the corpus linguistics research community, the SEU carries out research into English language.
They then reorder or modify chunks in order to produce a grammatical translation in the target-language.
According to Young, the basic noisy channel approach "reduced the speech recognition problem to one of producing two statistical models".
But then he met Masterman, a former pupil of Ludwig Wittgenstein, (she had taken the notes from some of his lectures for subsequent publication) whose approach was rooted in language.
Two master sheets are required for the process: one that encoded the correct answers and one for the machine to record run information.
Other modifications of nouns are possible through relative sentences: A customer who is trusted inserts a card that he owns.
Furthermore, the data sets may not reflect general linguistic or cultural change and can only hint at such an effect because they do not involve any metadata like date published, author, length, or genre, to avoid any potential copyright infringements.
Among other things, a taxonomy can be used to organize and index knowledge (stored as documents, articles, videos, etc.), such as in the form of a library classification system, or a search engine taxonomy, so that users can more easily find the information they are searching for.
His main topics of research are Natural language processing generally, and in particular, the computational analysis of linguistic meaning.
The main two bottlenecks of "full-fledged transfer-based systems" are complexity and unreliability of syntactic analysis.
Though there are also other, more complex language puns, the title of this routine has gradually replaced the term Lübke English when a German speaker wants to point out naive literal translations.
BabelNet: The automatic construction, evaluation and application of a wide-coverage multilingual semantic network.
For example, if word context (a lexicon of words) is not used to correct software finding non-existent words, a character error rate of 1% (99% accuracy) may result in an error rate of 5% or worse if the measurement is based on whether each whole word was recognized with no incorrect letters.
By induction on k, it can be shown that the length of each expression Rkij is at most ⁠1/3⁠(4k+1(6s+7) - 4) symbols, where s denotes the number of characters in Σ.
Organizational affiliations Mohri is currently the President of the Association for Algorithmic Learning Theory (AALT) and the Steering Committee Chair for the ALT conference.
The approach trained a 5-layer deep neural network, with the first two layers used as a (learned) feature extractor.
Jean Véronis (3 June 1955 – 8 September 2013) was a French linguist, computer scientist and blogger, and a research professor at Aix-Marseille University.
Unsupervised methods can be further divided into simple statistics, linguistics or graph-based, or ensemble methods that combine some or most of these methods.
For example, when translating from English to German, in the sentence "John does not live here", the word "does" has no clear alignment in the translated sentence "John wohnt hier nicht".
The system development started in 1985 and was terminated five years later due to lack of further funding.
Studies have demonstrated that integrating adaptive MT with post-editing interfaces can lead to reductions in technical effort and time, improving overall translation efficiency.
She is the author or co-author of a number of journal articles, including Reading Wikipedia to Answer Open-Domain Questions.
Recognition Goldwater was the 2016 winner of the Roger Needham Award of the British Computer Society.
Heck deployed this DNN in 1999 with Nuance Communications at the Home Shopping Network, representing the first major industrial application of deep learning with over 100K Nuance Verifier voiceprints.
This technology is also known as "online character recognition", "dynamic character recognition", "real-time character recognition", and "intelligent character recognition".
(2005), Representation and Inference for Natural Language: A First Course in Computational Semantics, CSLI Publications.
The 2004 release was created by and utilizes a computer board manufactured by InHand Electronics, Inc.
Never-Ending Language Learning is a semantic machine learning system developed by a research team at Carnegie Mellon University that extracts relationships from the open web.
She is married to Huacheng Yu, an assistant professor in theoretical computer science at Princeton University.
Aho, Hopcroft, Ullman (1968) and Cook (1971) characterized the class of languages recognizable by deterministic (2DPDA) and non-deterministic (2NPDA) two-way pushdown automata; Gray, Harrison, and Ibarra (1967) investigated the closure properties of these languages.
Schemas are templates which explicitly specify the content of a generated text (as well as document structuring information).
Its goal is to elucidate the cognitive mechanisms supporting the generation and interpretation of meaning in humans.
His research in machine translation resulted in the development of several state-of-the-art language translation and artificial intelligence systems.
Glushkov's construction algorithm is similar to Thompson's construction, once the ε-transitions are removed.
Current research Pustejovsky's research group's current projects include the TimeML and ISO-Space projects.
Lingua Libre v.2.2 (2020) In 2020, important changes were made to the platform; a new look was developed especially for the site, the .org domain replaced the .fr domain used until then, and added support for sign languages through video recording.
The six new languages work on iPhone 8 or later, iPhone 8 Plus or later, iPhone X or later, iPhone SE (2nd generation) or later, iPad Air (3rd generation) or later, all iPad Pro models, iPad Mini (5th generation) or later and iPad (5th generation) or later.
For example, Xerox the company, as a noun, is capitalized, but to xerox a document, as a verb, is not capitalized.
Example Let L {\displaystyle L} be the set of words over the alphabet {a,b} whose nth last letter is an a {\displaystyle a} .
Language Weaver’s statistical approach to machine translation was cutting-edge at the time, and a significant improvement over previous approaches such as Rule-Based MT.
The combined technologies of both companies, based on state-of-the-art Transformer-based Neural Machine Translation, are now sold as "Language Weaver" for cloud-based MT, and "Language Weaver Edge" for on-premise MT.
Marie-Francine (Sien) Moens (born 1957) is a Belgian computer scientist known for her research in natural language processing, argument mining, sentiment analysis, and information retrieval.
Hashing trick A common alternative to using dictionaries is the hashing trick, where words are mapped directly to indices with a hash function.
Apart from public voice portal services, a number of technology companies, including Alcatel-Lucent, Avaya, and Cisco, offer commercial enterprise-grade voice portal products to be used by companies to serve their clients.
Computing this set has an exponential worst-case cost, even for an Earley parser for RTNs with output, due to cases in which the number of translations increases exponentially w.r.t.
The company was founded to commercialise a statistical approach to automatic language translation and natural language processing known as statistical machine translation (SMT).
Once the user's mobile device is connected to the vehicle, the head unit serves as an external display for the device, presenting supported software in a car-specific user interface provided by the Huawei HiCar app.
In a non-deterministic co-Büchi automaton, the transition function δ {\displaystyle \delta } is replaced with a transition relation Δ {\displaystyle \Delta } .
On May 2023, German car maker Volkswagen was in talks to Huawei to use HiCar platform as part of its market expansion in China.
(2005) "An open-source shallow-transfer machine translation engine for the romance languages of Spain" in Proceedings of the European Association for Machine Translation, 10th Annual Conference, Budapest 2005, pp.
Features Since January 2024, Leo has used the open-source Mixtral 8x7B from Mistral AI as its default large language model, in addition to LLaMA 2 from Meta Platforms and Claude from Anthropic, both of which have been used previously.
In this algebraic context, the regular languages (corresponding to Boolean-weighted rational expressions) are usually called rational languages.
By 2002, about 500 Phraselators were built for soldiers around the world with another 250 ordered by the U.S.
These included depictions of children in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, fake ads targeting children encouraging them to denounce critics of the Ukrainian government, or fictitious statements by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about the country's surrender, among others.
[1] Barzilay's work in this area was featured in the FRONTLINE documentary In the Age of AI, which explores the broader impact of artificial intelligence on society.
He was elected fellow of Association for Advancement of Artificial Intelligence in 1993 for "fundamental contributions in NLP, esp.
developed an approach featuring lexical translation probabilities and relative alignment by mapping the problem to a Hidden Markov model.
Her other research projects included the architecture and compiler for the CMU Warp machine, a systolic array of VLIW processors, and the Stanford DASH distributed shared memory machine.
She led the development of and directs the National Centre for Text Mining (NaCTeM) in the United Kingdom.
While some patterns may occur between languages, as in the syllabic segmentation of French and English, they may not work well with languages such as Japanese, which has a mora-based segmentation system.
He was awarded honorary doctorates from the National University of Distance Education (UNED) in Madrid in 2013 and the University of Antwerp in 2015.
Ganesan has patents for software systems and methods used for visualizing reputation ratings, activity-based recommendations, and search clustering.
Its methodology is to enable the public at large to contrast and compare the accuracy of LLMs "in the wild" (an example of citizen science) and to vote on their output; a question-and-answer chat format is used.
Rather than human-powered keyword searches of data, the software automates taxonomy creation around concepts, allowing related words and phrases to be dynamically generated and tracked.
ISBN 978-0-7923-3704-1 Parallel Text Processing: Alignment and Use of Translation Corpora (Text, Speech and Language Technology).
Selected honors and distinctions 2003 John Atanasov Presidential Award for achievements in the development of the information society 2011 RANLP 2011 Young Researcher Award 2020 Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, best paper award == References ==
In January 2017, the company raised another $75 million in an investment round that included Nvidia, Samsung, Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers, and others.
See also Large language model Reinforcement learning from human feedback Reinforcement learning from AI feedback AI alignment Vision-language model Automatic summarization#Evaluation BLEU ROUGE (metric) Generative artificial intelligence == References ==
Many existing machine translation systems available at present are commercial or use proprietary technologies, which makes them very hard to adapt to new usages.
(2000) TnT - A Statistical Part-of-Speech Tagger, Proc 6th Applied Natural Language Processing Conference, ANLP-200 External links TnT -- Statistical Part-of-Speech Tagging by Thorsten Brants
Kuroda Prize of the SIG Mathematics of Language of the ACL, 2013 Awarded history On April 21, 2005, Joshi was awarded the Franklin Institute's Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science.
Limitations The metric requires a large sample size (often more than 1000 generations) to provide a stable distributional estimate.
The new language works on iPhone Xs or later, iPhone SE (2nd generation) or later, iPad Air (3rd generation) or later, iPad Pro (2nd generation) or later, iPad Mini (5th generation) or later and iPad (6th generation) or later.
History In November 2023, the company said versions for iOS and Android would be available "in the coming months".
In 1982, he could start developing in GramR a new system for translating the weather bulletins on a high-end Cromemco microcomputer.
It is evident to see that since Chinese opened up to the outside world and joined the WTO, the vigorous import and export trade generate opportunities for machine translation to transfer technical terms of products into the readable target information.
In the vision–language domain, similar approaches extend to vision–language models (VLMs), which can act as evaluators (or “VLM-as-a-Judge”) by assessing multimodal outputs involving both text and images/video.
He advised the Irish Government on its 3.7B euro Strategy for Science, Technology & Innovation (SSTI).
Since August 2017, it has also used machine learning and natural language processing techniques to monitor and collect news stories about hate crimes and bias incidents.
A further complication is added by whether a given syntax allows for error correction and, if it does, how easy that process is for the user.
6 of the book Natural Language Processing with Python (available online) TechTC - Technion Repository of Text Categorization Datasets Archived 2020-02-14 at the Wayback Machine David D.
5th SALTMIL Workshop on Minority Languages: Strategies for Developing Machine Translation for Minority Languages.
the larger such a (probabilistic) language model is, the more accurate it becomes, in contrast to rule-based systems that can gain accuracy only by increasing the amount and complexity of the rules leading to intractability problems.
Selected works Compilers: Principles, Techniques and Tools (2d Ed) (2006) (the "Dragon Book") by Alfred V.
proved that converting an n {\displaystyle n} -state AFA to an equivalent DFA requires 2 2 n {\displaystyle 2^{2^{n}}} states in the worst case, though a DFA for the reverse language can be constructued with only 2 n {\displaystyle 2^{n}} states.
She is also Professor in Computer Science in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Manchester.
Aspen Software of Albuquerque, NM, released the earliest version of this diction and style checker for personal computers.
In September 2025, it was announced that SoundHound had completed its acquisition of Interactions LLC, a company which also developed AI for the customer service market.
The electronic surveillance system produces tickets which in the US are often in excess of $100, and are virtually impossible for a citizen to contest in court without the help of an attorney.
Inclusion It is decidable in polynomial-time whether an UFA's language is a subset of another UFA's language.
Studies in Natural Language Processing is the book series of the Association for Computational Linguistics, published by Cambridge University Press.
The first spin-off, known as Lymba Corporation, markets the PowerAnswer question answering product originally developed at LCC.
The School of Informatics and the Machine Translation Group of the University of Edinburgh, created a research program, CAITRA, to analyze the benefits of different types of MTs and to explore the interaction between the machine and the user in order to develop new CAT tools.
With rates Y 0 , y , Y 1 {\displaystyle Y_{0},y,Y_{1}} for usage of another word class of the same 3 literatures, respectively, then 3 points, ( X 0 , Y 0 ) , ( x , y ) , ( X 1 , Y 1 ) {\displaystyle (X_{0},Y_{0}),(x,y),(X_{1},Y_{1})} will approximately be located on a line.
As opposed to other semantic learning initiatives like NELL or IBM's Watson, PRAC does not aim at answering questions in natural language, but to disambiguate and infer information pieces that are missing in natural-language instructions, such that they can be executed by a robot.
Raskin showed that UFAs cannot be complemented in polynomial time, even into NFAs: he shows that, in the worst case, complementing a UFA with n states into an NFA requires a superpolynomial number of states.
The user has the option of either replaying ("regenerating") a round, or beginning an entirely fresh one with new LLMs.
An expanded version of the software, not the one released through Mindscape, was used to generate the text for the published book The Policeman's Beard Is Half Constructed.
2015: Grant from the Australian Commonwealth Department of Industry, Innovation and Science for "Tracking Trends in Industry Demand for Australia's Advanced Research Workforce: Pilot Study" (AUD$90K; with Will J.
Divergence frontier: the metric calculates the trade-off between Type I and type II errors (precision and recall) between the two distributions using the Kullback-Leibler divergence.
History The LRE Map originated under the name "LREC Map" during the preparation of LREC 2010 conference.
Under the name "shallow structure hypothesis", it is also used as an explanation for why second language learners often fail to parse complex sentences correctly.
The goal of interpretation is binding the user utterance to concept, or something the system can understand.
Formal definition An information source is a sequence of random variables ranging over a finite alphabet Γ {\displaystyle \Gamma } , having a stationary distribution.
In a 2011 comparison report, Real Story Group classifies Brainware as a "Capture Solutions" vendor, competing directly with Kofax and ReadSoft.
After two years working for Unilever Research she completed the Cambridge Diploma in Computer Science.
One way to do this is by using a probabilistic context-free grammar (PCFG) which has a probability of each constituency rule, and modifying CKY to maximise probabilities when parsing bottom-up.
CLIP can also be used as a gradient signal for directly guiding diffusion ("CLIP guidance") or other generative art.
Chaisri discusses how Asprise OCR can be used for imaging analysis of fax documents in IT Convergence and Services: ITCS & IRoA 2011.
Ideally the system is integrated with a thesaurus that defines the standardised terms to be used for key word assignment.
Robust pronoun resolution with limited knowledge, Proceedings of the 36th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and 17th International Conference on Computational Linguistics-Volume 2 2001.
The term Lübke English (or, in German, Lübke-Englisch) refers to nonsensical English created by literal word-by-word translation of German phrases, disregarding differences between the languages in syntax and meaning.
Deeplearning4j includes implementations of the restricted Boltzmann machine, deep belief net, deep autoencoder, stacked denoising autoencoder and recursive neural tensor network, word2vec, doc2vec, and GloVe.
On February 7, 2025, she was appointed a member of the Artificial Intelligence Sectoral Scientific Council of the Greek Ministry of Development (announcement of appointment in Greek).
Human Language Technologies 2007: The Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics; Proceedings of the Main Conference.
Alternative presentations of the same method include the "elimination method" attributed to Brzozowski and McCluskey, the algorithm of McNaughton and Yamada, and the use of Arden's lemma.
Grammatik was ultimately acquired by WordPerfect Corporation and is integrated into the WordPerfect word processor.
This grew to 17 languages as six new languages - Turkish, Indonesian, Polish, Dutch, Thai and Vietnamese, were added in 2022.
Post-edited text may afterwards be revised to ensure the quality of the language choices are proofread to correct simple mistakes.
They proved in particular that for every n {\displaystyle n} -state UFA where n ≥ 7 {\displaystyle n\geq 7} , the complement of the language it accepts is accepted by a UFA with at most 2 0.79 n + log ⁡ n {\displaystyle 2^{0.79n+\log n}} states.
In 1957, the Language Institute of Chinese Academy of Sciences took the initiative in Russian-Chinese MT research program and set up an MT research group.
A unifilar Markov source is a Markov source for which the values f ( s k ) {\displaystyle f(s_{k})} are distinct whenever each of the states s k {\displaystyle s_{k}} are reachable, in one step, from a common prior state.
Simultaneously, decentralized identity management ensures the user is authorized to perform actions subject to the system’s policies based on their attributes (role, department, organization, etc.) and/ or physical location.
Research by America's Morgan Stanley financial services firm says demand for wine "exceeded supply by 300m cases in 2012".
Plumb, historian Denis Mack Smith, historian Tom King, Baron King of Bridgwater James Cropper, businessman == References ==
Mating Yeast has two mating types, a and α (alpha), which show primitive aspects of sex differentiation.
The wines are judged by five member panels which usually includes two Italian judges, two members of the international wine press and an additional, non-Italian judge.
She established Zelphi Wines with current husband Philip Freese, and has since ventured into new wine projects in Germany and South Africa, establishing the Vilafonte Wine Estate in Paarl, South Africa.
He held a PhD in chemistry, and directed the Laboratoire Départemental et Régional d'Analyses in Tours.
His Inno ai Krumiri (1886) is a "hymn" to the krumiro, a type of biscuit created in Casale Monferrato, the town where he largely lived and where he died in 1893.
Consider, at near room temperature: +100 °Bé (specific gravity, 3.325) would be among the densest fluids known (except some liquid metals), such as diiodomethane.
When wine is sipped, it is warmed in the mouth and mixes with saliva to vaporize the volatile aroma compounds.
The new PRP introduced itself to the political scene at the 1983 Riojan regional election, then headed by Luis Javier Rodríguez Moroy, the first President of La Rioja.
It is commonly used to modify existing protein foods, including plant-based ones such as soy, into more flavorful forms such as tempeh and fermented tofu.
A minimum of hygiene has to be considered and is subject to public control Strausswirtschaften are only allowed to serve very simple dishes.
Blattner has conducted very important research into finding disease-resistant grapes in viniculture since the 1980s, and is best known for developing Cabernet blanc in his Soyhières nursery in 1991.
Erimi (Greek: Ερήμη) is a village and a municipal district of the Kourion Municipality, lying partly in the Limassol District of Cyprus and partly in the British Overseas Territory of Akrotiri and Dhekelia.
R–Z Raisiny: a wine (usually red) with a slight taste of raisins resulting from the use of grapes that were overripe when picked.
It became common in the wine lexicon in 1977 when Shirley Copperman used it for her new bring-your-own-wine restaurant she and her husband dubbed "Oenophilia", located on the upper West Side of Manhattan.
He convinced the wineries to begin picking grapes at vineyards up to two weeks later than usual, and to complete the picking as quickly as possible.
Centro di Cultura e Civiltà Contadina - Biblioteca Internazionale La Vigna is an institute of documentation specialised in studies concerning agriculture and wine.
texture References Further reading Dollase, Jürgen, Geschmacksschule [engl.: Tasting School], 2005 Tre Tori, Wiesbaden, Germany (ISBN 3937963200).
Conversion 1 Anker ≡ 10 US gallons [8.33 Imperial gallons or 37.8541 Litres] 1 Anker ≡ 0.03785411784 m3 == References ==
Her husband's family is part of the Swiss nobility originally from Auvernier in the Canton of Neuchâtel.
It is the highest level of classification of appellation d'origine contrôlée (AOC) wines from Burgundy or Alsace.
A wine with low pH (and such greater acidity) will have a higher occurrence of ionized anthocyanins which will increase the amount of bright red pigments.
European table wines are generally made from the highest-yielding sites and vinified in an industrial manner.
Political life Díaz was a militant in the Union of the Democratic Centre (UCD), a party for which he was Deputy of Logroño in the last days of the transition period in the wake of General Franco's death.
The yeast is acidogenic, and when grown on glucose rich media under aerobic conditions, produces large amounts of acetic acid.
Hungary Historically, the world's first vineyard classification system was introduced in Tokaj-Hegyalja, Hungary, in 1730.
He assembled 14 leading wine experts including France's Alexis Lichine, who owned two chateaux in Bordeaux, a manager of the Four Seasons restaurant in New York City, and Sam Aaron, a prominent New York wine merchant.
Jacques Puisais (8 June 1927 – 6 December 2020) was known worldwide as a French oenologist and taste philosopher.
Later he turned to clonal selection, conservation breeding and breeding new grape varieties that would produce higher yields and better qualities.
Clay particles have the potential to remain in colloidal suspension for long periods of time when it is dissolved in water.
The history of these competitions were described in detail in the 2013 book "Reds, Whites & Varsity Blues: 60 years of the Oxford & Cambridge Blind Wine-Tasting Competition".
In 1971, the similar-sounding term Kabinett was instead introduced as the lowest level of the Prädikatswein category, i.e., with a completely different meaning.
Presumably there must have been an earlier structure on the site as the 1st Earl was Captain of Desmond Castle.
The museum exhibits singed joists of the 1928-burnt old residence building, wine production records of the last eighty years, weighing scales from the Ottoman period, mechanical crusher, mechanical destemming machine, must pump, big wooden wine barrels, bottle corking machine and dusty wine bottles.
It is naturally found in the brewery environment living within oak barrels that are used for the storage of beer during the secondary conditioning stage.
In French technical terminology, a distinction is made between the liqueur d'expédition (the liquid mixture itself) and the dosage (the act of addition and the specific quantity of sugar).
Rather than being a separate, second fermentation, this is most often one single fermentation period that is conducted in multiple vessels.
An Anker (usually anglicized as Anchor) was a Dutch unit of capacity for wine or brandy equal to 10 US gallons that was used as a standard liquid measurement.
Appellation systems The influence of terroir means that wines from a particular region are unique, incapable of being reproduced outside that area, even if the grape variety and winemaking techniques are painstakingly duplicated.
Australia Schools in Australia tend to offer a "bachelor of viticulture" or "master of viticulture" degree.
TCA is studied in detail and considered to be the main source of the issue (in some surveys, the TCA was present in all the bottles assessed to be tainted).
Jing Cao is a statistician whose research interests include Bayesian statistics, clinical trials, text mining, and the application of sentiment analysis in the statistics of wine tasting.
On 16 April 2025, the Parliament of Georgia initiated an amendment to the Law of Georgia on “Vine and Wine,” introducing a formal legal definition of natural wine.
Most of them are complex formulations that include nitrogen (from either amino acids or ammonium salts) along with vitamins, minerals and other growth factors and sold under brand names like Go-Ferm, Superfood, Fermaid K (the later two also containing some DAP).
There are many vineyards associated with Hocks, such as Hochheimer, Rüdesheimer, Marcobrunner and Johannisberger.
The red wine Kalecik Karasi grape was the most effective; the researchers believed this was due to the higher concentration of polyphenols in red wine grape skins.
On the other hand, a poor growing season can lead to grapes failing to reach optimal ripeness, resulting in grape juice that is higher in acid and lower in sugar, which affects the quality of the resulting wine.
Smoke taint is a broad term for a set of smoke imparted compounds found in affected wines, constituting a wine fault.
Vinegary: a wine with "the harsh aroma of vinegar" usually resulting from the presence of acetic acid.
The centuries-old histories of many Old World wine regions have given the regions time to develop and adapt techniques that presumably best suit a particular vine growing area.
The removal of the bunches while they are still green induces the vine to put all its energy into developing the remaining grapes.
Mitigating scent effects on olfactory fatigue According to a study by Grosofsky, Haupert and Versteeg, "fragrance sellers often provide coffee beans to their customers as a nasal palate cleanser" to reduce the effects of olfactory adaptation and habituation.
Throughout the history of winemaking and viticulture, the differences in quality between one plot of land and another have been observed with the boundaries of these vineyard generally well demarcated.
During fermentation, the added oxygen can help maintain the viability of the yeast to minimize the risk of stuck fermentation and the production of undesirable sulfides.
After working in several wineries, she attended graduate school in Enology at the University of California, Davis.
For quite some time the town of Villié-Morgon became a place for like minded winemakers to congregate and become influenced by the Gang of Four.
An alternate form is the "hand press" (sometimes called a "Continental Press" in England), a small screw-press operated by hand.
In Kendall-Jackson Chardonnay, every bottle produced is "Vintner's Reserve", and to indicate a traditional reserve wine, Kendall-Jackson uses the term "Grand Reserve".
Europe France In 1935, the Institut National des Appellations d'Origine (INAO), a branch of the French Ministry of Agriculture, was created to manage wine-processing in France.
Overview Vinopolis was located at Bankside, to the east of Southwark Bridge, and close to London Bridge on the southern side of the River Thames.
As a part of the Gal4 regulation, inhibitory protein Gal80 recognises and binds to the Gal4 region (853-874 aa).
He was also known for writing the novelization of the Clint Eastwood film Play Misty For Me, based on the script by Jo Heims and Dean Reisner.
The Oechsle scale is a hydrometer scale measuring the density of grape must, which is an indication of grape ripeness and sugar content used in wine-making.
Kalemkiarian Sr.'s son, Paul Kalemkiarian Jr., who was a teenager at that time, helped to stock the shop.
In Champagne, the composition of the liqueur d'expédition varies by production house and by product.
On the other hand, having many wines are available side-by-side for tasting, comparison and competition, will be better for well-performing wineries.
In 2008 and 2009, the Oxford judge was Jancis Robinson MW, and the Cambridge judge was Hugh Johnson.
A Bacchanalian fraternity is a fraternal society of professional or amateur aficionados of wine and perhaps other alcoholic beverages, typically promoting the wines of represented regions, such as wines from France and Germany.
BYOB or BYO is an initialism and acronym concerning wine ("bring your own bottle"), liquor ("bring your own booze"), beer ("bring your own beer"), or marijuana ("bring your own bud").
Furthermore, the vineyards and wines of Naoussa are presented through the programme entitled ‘The Roads of Wine’ and there are samples of wines made by all the wine-makers.
The exact amount of water will depend on a variety of factors including how much natural rainfall can be expected as well as the water retaining and drainage properties of the soil.
The use of chlorine or other halogen-based sanitizing agents is being phased out of the wine industry in favor of peroxide or peracetic acid preparations.
The gray area comes when inferior wine is being blended in with more expensive, higher-quality wine in order to increase the total quantity of wine available to be sold at higher prices.
Only 19 wine professionals in the United States have been awarded the Wine Location Specialist Certificate with the first class.
Thus Germany's geographical classification, Qualitätswein bestimmter Anbaugebiete (QbA), is akin to France's defunct Vin Délimité de Qualité Superieure, which has been subsumed into the current Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée system.
It is a term commonly used in wine tasting, where one loses the ability to smell and distinguish wine bouquet after sniffing at wine continuously for an extended period of time.
Terroir is often used to describe the aspects of a wine region such as soil, climate and topography that are often out of the winemaker's control.
Therefore, of the 209 cooperatives existing in Germany in 2008/2009, only 120 actually produced wine on their own premises.
He soon rose to the role of technical director, and his commitment with Antinori eventually lasted 32 years.
Hugel's Law The Alsatian wine producer Jean Hugel first described a wine as vendange tardive after the long hot summer of 1976.
The California Wine Club is a wine club co-founded in 1990 by Bruce and Pam Boring in Ventura, California and is considered one of the largest mail-order wine businesses in the United States.
The Wine & Spirit Education Trust, often referred to as WSET, is a global organization which arranges courses and exams in the fields of wine, spirits, beer, and sake.
Origin According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the earliest occurrence of the word oenophile was in 1865 in Culture of the Vine and Wine Making, an English translation of a French book by Jules Guyot.
Cork recycling program The California Wine Club partnered with ReCork, a natural wine cork recycling program, in July 2011 to conduct a nationwide cork drive.
A study by the UC Davis Department of Viticulture and Enology found that recommendations on optimal nitrogen levels to complete a successful fermentation could be made based harvest brix level which have been adopted by many yeast and nutrient manufacturers.
The museum's historical hall exhibits items related to vine growing and wine making in the Bulgarian lands from ancient Thracian times until today.
The species name Botrytis cinerea is derived from the Latin for "grapes like ashes"; the "grapes" refers to the bunching of the fungal spores on their conidiophores, while "ashes" refers to the greyish colour of the spores en masse.
It's the sensual orientation towards the pleasures of fine food and wine, and the name of a spiffy new bistro for elegant gourmandizing....'" See also Oenology == References ==
Produced by other methods During the Great French Wine Blight in the late 19th century, the production of wine fell so dramatically in France that several types of "Ersatz wine" were frequently produced in France under the designation piquette, and not just consumed locally, but also sold.
Many wineries offer immersive experiences, including winemaking workshops, food-and-wine pairings, and overnight stays at vineyards.
Gemütlichkeit shared among a throng enjoying young wine, simple food, and traditional music is one of the greatest appeals of a Heuriger.
Biography Georg Scheu completed horticultural training in Hanover and worked as a horticultural technician in Munich and Schierstein.
The International Wine & Spirit Competition is an annual wine and spirit competition founded in 1969 by the German/British oenologist Anton Massel.
She is a professor of statistics at Southern Methodist University, where she is director of graduate studies in statistics.
After the grapes were loaded into the basket, the disc would depress towards the bottom with juice seeping out between the staves into a waiting basin or tray.
The Wine and Vine Museum is a new museum housed in the traditional building belonging to Ioannis Boutaris in the centre of Naoussa in Central Macedonia, Greece.
He chose a site beneath the arches of a Victorian railway viaduct that was built in 1866 by the Southeastern Railway Company to carry an extension line from London Bridge Station over the Thames to the north bank.
While VA is typically considered a wine flaw or fault, winemakers may intentionally allow a small amount of VA in their product for its contribution to the wine's sensory complexity.
Thomas Pinney (born April 23, 1932) is an American English scholar known for his work collecting the letters of Thomas Babington Macaulay and Rudyard Kipling, as well as a wine scholar known for his two-volume history of wine in the U.S.
San Francisco Wine Tasting of 1978 The San Francisco Wine Tasting of 1978 was conducted 20 months after the Paris Wine Tasting of 1976.
The Yilan Distillery Chia Chi Lan Liquor Museum (traditional Chinese: 宜蘭酒廠甲子蘭酒文物館; simplified Chinese: 宜兰酒厂甲子兰酒文物馆; pinyin: Yílán Jiǔ Chǎng Jiǎzǐlán Jiǔ Wénwùguǎn) or Chia Chi Lan Liquor Museum is a museum about wine in Yilan City, Yilan County, Taiwan.
⁠ C 6 H 12 O 6 → 2 C O 2 + 2 C 2 H 5 O H {\displaystyle \mathrm {C_{6}H_{12}O_{6}\rightarrow 2CO_{2}+2C_{2}H_{5}OH} } ⁠ Fermentation practices have led to the discovery of ample microbial and antimicrobial cultures on fermented foods and products.
This was done because wartime embargoes limited Coca-Cola of Germany's ability to import and manufacture the American beverage.
The principal annual event of the organization is the tasting of Burgundy wines, called Tastevinage, at the Château du Clos de Vougeot, when wines deemed worthy by a jury of tasters are awarded the accolade of Tasteviné and are permitted to use a special label on their bottles.
With the coming of the first autonomous elections, one local section of the UCD, to which Díaz belonged, split from the party to form the Progressive Riojan Party (PRP).
Early life and education Díaz was born in Madrid on 10 April 1943 in the early days of Francisco Franco's dictatorship.
Jefferson was an active œnophile and wine collector, who spent much time in France during the 1780s and whose interest in wine is well documented.
Cleese guides viewers through the basics of wine types and grape varieties, wine making, wine tasting and terminology, buying and storing wines, through direct narrative and interviews with wine makers and wine sellers.
If wine becomes contaminated by brett, some vintners sterile filter it, add SO2, or treat it with dimethyl dicarbonate.
The Enoteca is the only wine museum in Brazil, with international standards comparable to the French, and the second in Latin America in the public domain.
Standing close to the banks of the river, the 18th-century house belonged to the prosperous Wellenstein family.
Oxidized: a wine that has experienced too much exposure to oxidation, considered faulty, and may exhibit sherry-like odors.
In some countries the use of the term "reserve", "reserva" or "riserva" is regulated, but in many places it is not.
Well-known négociants in Burgundy are Maison Louis Jadot, Joseph Drouhin, and Vincent Girardin; in Beaujolais, Georges Duboeuf; in Provence, Mirabeau; and in the Rhône region, Guigal, Jaboulet, Jean-Luc Colombo, Chapoutier, and Famille Perrin.
Also, buyers and sellers of bulk wine typically do not have access to a multi-million litre tank, and so often the wine will vary depending on which tank it came from.
Fraud of a different nature occurred during prohibition in the United States, when wine production was illegal, as grape merchants would sell "bricks" of grape concentrate across the United States along with a packet of dried yeast.
Relationship to other grapes DNA profiling from the 1990s has revealed that many classical grape varieties are crosses with parents in both the Frankish and Hunnic groups.
He practiced law while simultaneously managing agricultural properties, expanding the family's land holdings.
The Catalan Wine Cultures Museum or VINSEUM is a museum situated in an antique house-palace of the monarchs of the Crown of Aragon, in Vilafranca del Penedès (Alt Penedès) Barcelona, Spain.
The WSET offers professional certification in more than 70 countries worldwide, the courses are delivered by Approved Programme Providers.
Transportation The museum is accessible within walking distance west from Yilan Station of Taiwan Railway.
Some legends have the monks establishing the boundaries of different terroirs – many of which still exist today as the Grand Cru vineyards of Burgundy.
In the aftermath, he assisted Ștefana with destroying Ionel's manuscripts, burning each individual page after first reading it.
See also lac operon References Further reading Gal4p on WikiGenes Traven A, Jelicic B, Sopta M (May 2006).
David later became Wine Director at Quince restaurant in San Francisco while continuing to write and working on his next book.
Süssreserve The 'reserve of sweetness' is a German technique in which unfermented must (grape juice) is added to the wine after fermentation.
Weil used wines ranging from four to 17 years beyond their vintage with 240 wine drinkers and found that the tasters could not distinguish between wines of good and bad vintages except for Bordeaux wines.
Still, he is consumed by his passion for the nubile Sanda, but she dies, of "chest trouble", on the very night of their wedding.
Despite the reference to the colour white, the term is not limited to white wine, and can as easily indicate a red wine or rosé.
That year, Meyer met Colorado entrepreneur Ray Duncan who had purchased a 750-acre plot of land in the Napa Valley of northern California, which was formerly the Oakville Dairy farm, as an investment in growing and selling grapes.
Goldfarb "Trademarked Vineyards: A hedge against the devaluation of “Vineyard Designates" Appellation America, May 17, 2007
She then served as Executive Vice President at Chandon Estates until 1999 when she committed herself to running Long Vineyards, which she established with her then-husband Bob Long in St.
Hebe is the daughter of Zeus and Hera and is described performing her duties as cupbearer in the Iliad: Hêbê's role of cup bearer ended when she was then replaced by Ganymede.
In the United States, the organization delegates authority to a Grand Pilier, who is also assisted by a Grand Connétable.
During ripening the sucrose molecules are hydrolyzed (separated) by the enzyme invertase into glucose and fructose.
Before joining Gallo, he was the Director of the Australian Wine Research Institute in Adelaide for 14 years.
As these grapes are grown on government land, the wine made from them is served at official functions such as embassy dinners.
Normalizovaný moštoměr (°NM) is a scale used in the Czech Republic and Slovakia for measuring the sweetness of wine must.
Spacing of plants so they are not touching will increase airflow allowing the area to dry out and reduce the spread of disease.
The business evolved over the years, and at the time it closed, it operated as both a wine tour and a corporate events venue.
These wines are generally very expensive, have limited production (often fewer than 600 cases per year) and can sell for several times their "release price" in the secondary market.
The Napoleonic inheritance laws typically caused vineyards to be so finely divided among inheritors – down to even a single row of vines – that négociants are needed to bottle commercial quantities of a wine.
ISBN 978-0738825229 Rudyard Kipling's uncollected speeches : a second book of words : with a checklist of his speeches.
Technique Blind tasting, at a minimum, involves denying taster(s) the ability to see the wine label or wine bottle shape.
In the United States, the term primarily designates a wine style: an ordinary wine that is not fortified or expensive and is not usually sparkling.
It used to be defined as 18 wine gallons—one of several gallons then in use—before the adoption of the imperial system in 1824, afterwards it was 15 imperial gallons, which became the universal English base unit of volume in the British realm.
This may be due to a lack of sugars, the presence of some other taste that masks sweetness, or an underabundance of simple carbohydrates that can be converted to sugar by enzymes in the mouth (amylase in particular).
Use Before standardization on specific gravity around the time of World War II the Baumé scale was generally used in industrial chemistry and pharmacology for the measurement of density of liquids.
In Armenia, Iran, Azerbaijan and more West Asian countries, this grape syrup is known as doshab, and in Palestine, it is (Arabic: دبس) dibs or dibes.
The gut bacterium Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron has a polysaccharide utilization locus that contains enzymes that allows deconstruction of rhamnogalacturonan-II, cleaving all but 1 of its 21 distinct glycosidic linkages.
No matter what, it is still going be the best salon since Dorothy Parker made that crack about horticulture." Reasoning for the Led Zeppelin name Edison has explained that "Zep is the perfect band to pair with wine—maybe the only band.
References External links Munskänkarna in Sweden Suomen Munskänkarna in Finland Svenska Munskänkarna i Finland
Kutman Wine Museum (Turkish: Kutman Şarap Müzesi) is a privately held museum devoted to winemaking, which was established in 2004 by the Kutman Winery at Mürefte, Şarköy of Tekirdağ Province, Turkey.
Carpenè worked to overcome agricultural backwardness and modernize the outdated vine cultivation systems prevalent in Italy at the time.
Limited sunshine means lower sugar levels that can be converted into resources to develop grape berries.
Microbiota The genus Acetobacter contains species which are important commensal bacteria in the gut microbiome of Drosophila melanogaster.
Marcus Terentius Varro, Columella and Virgil would also include descriptions of the workings of wine presses in their agricultural treatises.
The history of the wine press and of pressing is nearly as old as the history of wine itself with the remains of wine presses providing some of the longest-serving evidence of organised viticulture and winemaking in the ancient world.
The first miracle of Jesus' public ministry was transforming water into fine wine at a wedding in Cana.
Measurements and tests The nitrogen by o-phthaldialdehyde assay (NOPA) is used to measured available primary amino acids in grape juice using a spectrophotometer that can measure at 335 nm wavelengths.
The club offers hand-selected wines on a monthly basis from boutique and small, family-owned wineries in California, Oregon and Washington State, and other countries such as France, Italy, and Austria.
Those wines that are featured have had to endure a series of appraisals by the owner and cellarmaster Paul Jr., based on both their quality and their price.
This provide slightly more control since the initial amount of water entering the channels could be regulated, however the amount that each vine received was sporadic.
Some vendange tardive wines are fairly dry, most are sweet but not cloyingly so; all are characterised by great richness.
In January 2001, he sold his share of the company to Ray Duncan, citing health problems, but continued as a consulting winemaker until his death in August 2002.
See also Sparkling wine production References Sources "Council Regulation (EEC) No 2332/92 of 13 July 1992 on sparkling wines produced in the Community".
In areas of steep terrain, like in the Mosel, it would be virtually impossible to run a mechanical harvester through the vineyard.
To improve marketing the region announced in 1953 its own classification of red wines and one white wine, with more white wines added in 1959.
In some modern use, particularly in American English, the term is also used as a synonym for "winemaker".
The winning wine was the Grgich Hills Wine Cellar Sonoma County Chardonnay 1977, which was the new winery's very first vintage.
He was then handed over to the custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement for deportation to Indonesia.
However growth has been reported at levels below this and it is assumed that the yeast can use other substrates.
Dosage is the final addition to a sparkling wine that determines the level of sweetness, or residual sugar, in the finished wine.
Since the alcohol in wine is produced by fermentation of the sugar, the Oechsle scale is used to predict the maximal possible alcohol content of the finished wine.
They may be branded wines that were originally sold at a higher price and re-labelled as cleanskins, or they may be wines produced for the purpose of being sold as cleanskins.
The term bouquet can also be expanded to include the smells derived from fermentation and exposure to oak.
green harvesting, with the aim of improving the quality of the remaining grapes, predates modern critics, the practice has increased in recent times in vineyards found in California and areas where the grapes grow easily.
85% is a common minimum standard; national regulations may set the limit higher in certain cases, but not lower.
Syrah also saw a dramatic increase in plantings after Gary Eberle, then with Estrella River Winery (now Meridian Vineyards) planted it in Paso Robles and made available the clone he used to other interested growers.
In this context, higher-quality than ordinary cuvées are often referred to as reserve wines, while a cuvée lower in quality than the main one is a second wine.
He was an entrepreneur from Vicenza who began to get interested in the field after having read a book about oenology in New York City in 1951.
Other techniques associated with Old World winemakers include higher fermentation temperatures and a period of extended maceration following fermentation where the wine can leech more phenolic compounds from the grape skins.
It is the oldest such wine retailer in the UK, and, according to the Consumers' Association, the best.
Breakdown by judge The original grades (out of 20 points) are shown, in alphabetical order by judge.
There are a number of reasons why painting provenance is important, which mostly also apply to other types of fine art.
For Burgundy wines, the terms premier cru (abbreviated 1er cru) are usually kept rather than being translated into English.
Such clones have arisen through mutation of a regular ("non-musqué") clone of the variety, and such mutations have been recorded for several different grape varieties.
Recognition Cao was named as a Fellow of the American Association of Wine Economists (AAWE) in 2017, after previously winning a best presentation award at an AAWE conference and publishing several papers on the statistics of wine tasting.
Tasting room economics in the United States Tasting rooms are still considered an important brand-building feature in the wine business.
The winery was awarded the Golden Winery Award in 1996 from the California State Fair, and despite being the winemaker for the winery, she was not acknowledged for the award.
Négociant Négociant is the French term for a wine merchant who assembles the produce of smaller growers and winemakers and sells the result under its own name.
There is a popular story that the practice originated independently in Germany, where the Riesling producers at Schloss Johannisberg (Geisenheim, in the Rheingau region) traditionally awaited the say-so of the estate owner, Heinrich von Bibra, Bishop of Fulda, before cutting their grapes.
If a painting has been in private hands for an extended period and on display in a stately home, it may be recorded in an inventory – for example, the Lumley inventory.
The name is a pun on The Lone Ranger, and was coined by Wine Spectator to describe Randall Grahm for their 1989 April 15 issue, which featured Grahm dressed as the Lone Ranger under the title "The Rhône Ranger" (singular).
The premises also house a cooperage showing how barrels were made, a large wine press, a smithy and the former Ehnen office of weights and measures.
Estimated occurrence and industry response The cork-industry group APCOR cites a study showing a 0.7–1.2% taint rate.
The competition is recognized by the International Organisation of Vine and Wine (OIV), the World Federation of Major Wine and Spirits Competitions (VINOFED), and the Spanish Ministry of Agriculture.
Its global structure is conserved across vascular plants, albeit a number of variations within the RG-II side chains have been observed between different plants.
In Vienna, for example, this "Buschenschankzeichen [...] has to consist of a pine, fir or spruce bush." (Section 6 (2) Vienna Buschenschankgesetz).
The term has been reappropriated by some Singaporean women who self-identify as "sarong party girls".
Writing was not widespread among Indigenous peoples in Canada prior to European contact, so literature can sometimes be expanded to include the robust oral histories and lyric poetry of Indigenous peoples in Canada.
Early life Marie Baude was born in about 1703 (1701 according to her testimony) in Joal, a city on the western coast of Senegal.
A 1664 Maryland law outlined the legal status of a free woman who voluntarily married an enslaved man: she would serve the master of her husband until his death, and any offspring of their union would be born into slavery.
The December 2010 Israeli rabbi letter controversy was a scandal that erupted surrounding the appearance of two open letters, signed by a number of Israeli rabbis, that called for a social boycott of Arabs in Israel.
However, it is doubtful that all such individuals would meet the objective tests laid out in the Supreme Court decisions Powley and Daniels and therefore qualify as "Métis" for the purposes of Canadian law.
His international caps for the Dutch national team were limited due to players such as Patrick Kluivert, Dennis Bergkamp and Ruud van Nistelrooy.
In many places, especially in the American South, there were restrictions on people of color owning slaves and agricultural land.
Loba) (Spanish for "wolf") is a racial category for a mixed-race person used in Mexican paintings illustrating the caste (casta) system in 17th- and 18th-century Spanish America.
We would protest, and we protest now when it is said of our neighbors"; and: "Such things cannot be said - not about Jews, and not about Arabs.
Her books include Generation Hex: Understanding the Subtle Dangers of Wicca (Harvest House Publishers, August 2008) (with Dillon Burroughs); and Your Intercultural Marriage: A Guide to a Healthy, Happy Relationship (Moody Publishers, July 2009).
At the time of his death in 1874, Séjour was known to have written a play called L'Esclave ("The Slave"), but the manuscript has never been found.
They have a total population of 488,225 representing 0.8% of England and Wales, an increase from 341,727 in 2011 and 189,015 in 2001.
Increased education does however influence choices in the other direction, such that a higher level of schooling is associated with more optimistic feelings towards interracial relationships.
In the 16th and 17th centuries, thousands of Japanese people also travelled to Southeast Asia and intermarried with the local women there.
The successive presidents of the MMF have been the following: Activities During the COVID-19 pandemic, MMF received a $460,200 grant from the Public Health Agency of Canada's Immunization Partnership Fund to increase acceptance of COVID-19 vaccines among Métis citizens in Manitoba.
He was likely assisted by Stanly's White half-brother John Stanly — Lydia Cogdell's nephew — an attorney who had previously defended Free Black clients and had emancipated several of his own slaves.
To manage this exodus from the former East African colonies, the Home Secretary James Callaghan under a Labour party government introduced a bill in February 1968, and got it passed within a week.
Very shortly before the camp was liberated in April 1945, the Nazi authorities released several hundred prisoners, including Koopman, to the care of the Red Cross in Sweden.
This classification is only used in England and Wales, as Scotland and Northern Ireland do not have sub categories for their mixed group options.
The abeLungu clan of the Xhora River in particular featured prominently in many Eastern Cape clan histories as the adoptive clan of the white Mpondo queen Gquma, who was married to the Tshomane monarch Sango.
In due course the Hanover became one of the most influential galleries in Europe, most notably by nurturing the early career of Francis Bacon.
The term torna atrás does not appear as a legal category in colonial documentation, but it is often shown in families portrayed in casta paintings in eighteenth-century Mexico.
And from one (like myself) who knows that race is the great divider of society, the admirable contrast and exception to racial discrimination so markedly presented by the people of the Philippines is indeed admirable." Another foreign witness was English engineer, Frederic H.
Vastey was what people at the time called a "mulatto," because he was born to a white French father and a black Haitian mother.
The small group of people who are the mixed descendants of Indian males and local Burmese females are called "Zerbadees", a term which is frequently used in a pejorative way in order to imply that they are people of mixed race.
Marriages between white US soldiers and Austrian women were prohibited until January 1946, and with German women until December 1946.
In contemporary cinema, portrayals of mixed-race identity and racial belonging have become more varied, often revisiting earlier themes while presenting them in more complex and nuanced ways.
During that war she served as a spy for the Italian Resistance and was captured and held prisoner in the Ravensbrück concentration camp.
Breton de Nijs) 1962 – De pen in gal gedoopt; een keuze uit brieven en documenten van Herman Neubronner van der Tuuk.
Social markers of creole identity have included being of Catholic faith, being a speaker of French and/or another French-derived language, having a strong work ethic, and being a fan of literature.
It is not his fault he is two feet tall and has a ridiculous Elmer Fudd or Tweety-like (a reference to Looney Tunes characters) speech problem where his r's turn into w's, and he often adds w's to his l's.
After winning two consecutive Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal doubles at Bayern, he returned to the Netherlands with Feyenoord in 2007.
had extended its influence throughout the Caribbean and Latin America following the construction of the Panama Canal by invoking the Roosevelt Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine.
The song was so sexually explicit that the State of Florida banned its sale; however the ban was later overturned after 2 Live Crew filed a free speech lawsuit.
In 1950, the Nationalist government of DF Malan, in one of the first legislative acts of apartheid, introduced the Immorality Amendment Act, 1950 (Act No.
While not the most probable event, a sperm or egg may randomly acquire, for example, mostly alleles that confer light skin coloration or mostly alleles that confer dark skin coloration.
The archaeological record firmly refutes any supposition of mass migrations or colonization but evidences extensive trade relations with Persia.
Euro-African marriage ceremonies largely combined traditional customary practices with nominal Western Christian standards of monogamy, often in accordance with official colonial rules of the time.
Thereafter, Gallum continued to run her newly acquired estate as her husband had, the only difference being that she was now the head of household, with the assistance of her eldest son Benjamin.
A caboclo (Portuguese pronunciation: [kɐˈboklu]) is a person of mixed Indigenous Brazilian and European ancestry, or, less commonly, a culturally assimilated or detribalized person of full Amerindian descent.
Some European men took Burmese women as "temporary" wives, often abandoning them and their offspring after their tours of duty ended in Burma, not dissimilar to the Spanish and French practice of plaçage, but legal marriages did take place.
Finally, according to the decree of 25 September 1942, even the "tried and tested and distinguished" who had been spared so far were to be dismissed.
See also Anti-miscegenation laws Immorality Act References External links Texts on Wikisource: Immorality Act, 1927 Immorality Amendment Act, 1950
On the urging of his family, Leonard Kip Rhinelander, a wealthy white man, sued his wife, Alice Beatrice Jones, for annulment and fraud; he alleged that she had failed to inform him of her "colored" blood.
He was also impersonated in "Captain Copycat" by the Warrior Monkey (Milo managed to counter the incident by impersonating the Warrior Monkey).
Mary Butler was Nell Butler's great-granddaughter, but the provincial court ruled against them, noting that "many of these people, if turned loose, cannot mix with us and become members of society." Other suits from other descendants followed in the 1780s.
This made up "15.7% of all foreign nationals living legally in the country." Languages Cape Verde's official language is Portuguese, but Cape Verdean Creole is more often used in everyday conversation.
His projects were surpassed when France's Commissioner Léger-Félicité Sonthonax recognized the freedom of the rebels before Raimond's plans were put into action.
Mulatto (French: mulâtre, Haitian Creole: milat) is a term in Haiti that is historically linked to Haitians who are born to one white European parent and one black African parent, or two mulatto parents.
This mixed-race option was considered a necessary adaptation to the demographic and cultural changes that the United States has been undergoing.
It was only in the mid-1970s that the first petitions for permission to marry foreigners were accepted, with the thawing of diplomatic ties between China and the United States.
The authors contended this type of pornography to be distinct from "race porn", due to the potency of head coverings in such films as a marker of religious identity rather than what the authors identify as inherently racial (skin colour given as the example).
Vasconcelos continues to say that the people of the Iberian regions of the Americas (that is to say, the parts of the continent colonised by Portugal and Spain) have the territorial, racial, and spiritual factors necessary to initiate the "universal era of humanity".
On January 2, 2011, Eliyahu was summoned to an Israeli police interrogation on suspicion of incitement to racism, which is a crime in Israel, but he refused to answer the summons.
From what remained, archaeologists identified a gold earring, a gold ring and a gold coin which is an imitation of Byzantine coins.
Dimitry was a Greek immigrant who married Marianne Céleste Dragon, a woman of African and Greek ancestry, around 1799.
Northeast Indian fetish is a sexual or romantic fixation on women from Northeast India, the eight states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura.
They have a total population of 513,042, representing 0.9% of England and Wales, an increase from 426,715 in 2011 and 237,420 in 2001.
Jane Landers, a historian and the leading researcher on Gallum, summarizes the life of Gallum: "Ana suffered rape and hardships on the Florida frontier, but was able to utilize legal and social resources in the Spanish world that enabled her to establish security".
It urged young Jewish women to not date Arabs, and to not work at locations where non-Jews might be present.
An October 12, 2016 news article reported that the Danang Museum received the "Pieta Vietnam" statue on October 11, 2016, along with 51 other items.
The only kid who thinks as big as he does is the Captain; a good thing, as Rutger frequently requires his services.
This trend of intermarriage included Tibetan, Uyghur, and later Russian-Chinese unions, which were encouraged for perceived genetic benefits.
With Milo, things rarely turn out as planned, but somehow they do always manage to turn out all right.
The 2022 International Social Science Journal study found that the cumulative experience of being targeted produced ongoing mental and emotional strain among Northeast women in Delhi.
The Portuguese encouraged Chinese migration to Macao, and most Macanese in Macao were formed from intermarriages between Portuguese and Chinese.
Apartheid During the apartheid era in South Africa of the second half of the 20th century, the government used the term "Coloured" to describe one of the four main racial groups it defined by law (the fourth was "Asian", later "Indian").
The same issue included Chopin's story "A Visit to Avoyelles"; both marked Chopin's first contributions to the magazine which would eventually publish 18 of her works before the end of the century.
Decline of the community In 1749, a political crisis involving Topass leader Gaspar da Costa resulted in another war with the Dutch.
Reportedly about 900 families, both free citizens and Dutch East India Company employees, decided to remain in Ceylon.
This has caused a major shift in China's attitudes to race and to Chinese children of mixed race heritage, because of globalization.
He was initially the slave of Richard Cogdell, a local politician who served as the chairman of New Bern's Committee of Safety during the American Revolution and as a member of the North Carolina House of Representatives from 1778 to 1779.
In one study, açaí palm was described as the most important plant species because the fruit makes up such a major component of diet (up to 42% of the total food intake by weight) and is economically valuable in the region (Murrieta et al., 1999).
"Kate Chopin and the Fiction of Limits: Désirée's Baby." Short Story Criticisms: Excerpts from Criticism of the Works of Short Fiction Writers.
Job restriction Since autumn 1935, Joseph Goebbels had been striving for a consistent "de-Jewification" of the Reich Chamber of Culture.
Known as the Coptic component, it peaks among Egyptian Copts who settled in Sudan over the past two centuries.
For five years, Alupoaicei worked as a writer and editor for Insight for Living, Chuck Swindoll's international Bible-teaching ministry in Plano, Texas.
After publishing other works voicing her opposition to slavery, much of her audience turned against her, especially in the South.
Pinkerton, an upper class white Anglo-Saxon Protestant, who marries a Japanese girl for convenience while docked in Nagasaki, but plans to abandon her as soon as he leaves Japan and to find a suitably upper class white American wife.
Due to the large sex industry brought on by the military economy, Amerasians were predominantly seen as off-spring of prostitute mothers and G.I.
Building upon robust oral traditions, Indigenous writers work in many genres today, including poetry, playwriting, and novels.
"Schwarze Bestien, rote Gefahr": Rassimus und Antisozialismus im deutschen Kaiserreich [Black Beasts, Red Peril.
Over a hundred slaves worked there, who were from several African ethnic groups; they lived in two groups of houses.
Many Euro-Africans, though baptised and confirmed in the church, were nominally Christian and led a "robustly secular lifestyle" which was at odds with the lifestyle of Pietistic Basel and Victorian Wesleyan missionaries whose spiritual influence extended to the coast.
She asks him all sorts of fangirl questions, always proceeded by, "I was just wondering...", and like Lizbeth, she has a huge crush on Milo and often concocts fake troubles to get Milo to "rescue" her and to possibly spend time with him.
If he had waited two more weeks to convert, he would be classified as (and would always remain) a Jew.
According to 18th-century accounts, Andresa de Castilhos was described by the following: "I declare that Andresa de Castilhos, parda woman ...
In this way, women of lower social status could gain power in the community and become important traders through their marital status.
In 1947 he returned to his land of birth during the continuing Indonesian revolution and set up a cultural and literary magazine in an attempt to mitigate the Dutch-Indonesian alienation via art and literature.
Vernacularly, the term used to refer to a cossack hunter, later it was a nickname of Transbaikal cossacks.
She was named Catharina, but came to prefer Toto, her childhood nickname after her father's favourite horse.
On 17 January 1912, the Reich Colonial Office led by State Secretary Wilhelm Solf enforced a distinction between legitimate and illegitimate mixed-race children for Samoa, on top of the previous marriage ban.
When word reached the Philippines, many more Filipinos flocked to Kalk Bay, and they were soon scattered throughout Cape Town and other parts of the region that is now the Western Cape, where most of them were eventually absorbed into the Cape Coloured community.
The May 1912 Reichstag debate on interracial marriage was the most significant and explicit discussion of (colonial) racial biopolitics on a national level in the German Empire before World War I.
Golden Half (ゴールデンハーフ, Gōruden Hāfu) was an early 1970s J-pop band made up of 5 hāfu members, including Maria Mori, Eva Mary and Luna Takamura.
Ethnocultural empathy, on the other hand, assumes that empathy toward others probably increases if the other is similar to oneself in terms of ethnicity, gender, age, or cultural background.
After the United States acquired the Louisiana Territory, Creoles in New Orleans and the region worked to integrate the military en masse.
While some of the servicemen formed lasting relationships with Thai women, some luk khrueng were the product of temporary relationships with "rented wives" or sex workers, a fact that led to some discrimination in that era.
This ceremony ignited the Haitian Revolution, which culminated with the establishment of the independent State of Haiti.
Terceroon was a term synonymous with quadroon, derived from being three generations of descent from an African ancestor, counting the ancestor as the first generation.
Until the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962, all Commonwealth citizens could enter and stay in the UK without any restriction.
It is therefore not unusual to find ancestors from these countries in many Dutch Burgher family trees.
Etymology The word quadroon was borrowed from the French quarteron and the Spanish cuarterón, both of which have their root in the Latin quartus, meaning "a quarter".
Later still it was applied to the fort and mission established on the south side of the Straits of Mackinac.
In 1777, his father, Jean-Valentin Vastey, originally from Jumièges, in Normandy, had married Élisabeth Dumas.
At the same time the proposal opened the door to free movement of certain European workers from European Economic Community member states.
Through the support of these armies, the Prazeiros controlled the people and the land of this region.
When the Turkish-German journalist Deniz Yücel was imprisoned in Turkey in 2017, Hingst sent him daily postcards expressing her support.
According to The Economist in October 2020, the 2011 census figure "is probably an undercount, since not all children of mixed marriages will have ticked one of the mixed categories, and the number is likely to have grown since the census".
Vastey also claimed to have fought in Toussaint's army and is said to have been the second cousin of the French novelist and playwright Alexandre Dumas (Daut 56; see also, Griggs 181).
Archived from the original on 2001-01-28.{{cite magazine}}: CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link) McGivering, Jill (1999-02-13).
On 18 April 1955, SWACTA and the South West Africa Coloured People's Bond (SWACPB) petitioned for a new Coloured township in Windhoek and requested the creation of a Council for Coloured Affairs.
America's Urban Crisis and the Advent of Color-Blind Politics: Education, Incarceration, Segregation, and the Future of the U.S.
Article 2 of the Regulation sets our seven jurisdiction bases, all of equal status, with regard to divorce, legal separation, and nullity actions.
Since 2022, Métis living outside of Manitoba have been invited by the Manitoba Métis Federation to become citizens of the MMF.
Birdie is sent to a predominantly black school in Dorchester, while Cole is sent to a south Boston Irish school.
As Germans considered the occupation to be carried out by "B-grade" troops, a notion that was drawn from colonial and racial stereotypes, their humiliation was heightened, increasing hostility toward the women and children in these unions.
Mantan Manten (2018) Album Detik Waktu Candra Darusman: PERKENALAN PERDANA (2018) BICARA The Overtunes ft.
Mugabe won the country's first general elections held under a universal franchise, despite facing militant opposition from Joshua Nkomo's Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU) and a number of minority parties.
Some police weapons were found in their possession and one of the parties of police had disappeared—an ominous coincidence.
Individual families often have indigenous European traditions reflecting their specific family origins.
She and her husband, Catalin, have partnered with several ministries, including Buckner Orphan Care International, to support social justice and particularly ministry to orphans in Romania, Mexico and other nations.
The term originated in the city of Buenos Aires in the 1940s, when a large internal migration began, mainly from rural areas of the northern provinces, to Buenos Aires and other large urban centers, seeking labor in the new factories being created as a result of a broad industrialization process.
Birth of Little Ricky In 1952, after going to the doctor complaining of feeling "dauncey" (a word her grandmother made up; Lucy's definition of feeling "dauncey" is when you are not really sick but just feel lousy) and gaining weight, she learns that she is pregnant.
The students and superintendent built the first steel reinforced concrete foundation in the territory, using sand from a nearby creek, rocks and bricks from previously burned buildings and iron from the "scrap pile".
Blow observes that Americans who were polled on their "satisfaction with race relations" reported lower satisfaction after the rise of Black Lives Matter, an anti-racism movement.
At around 16 years of age she announced her intention to marry a man referred to only as "Negro Charles".
Saint-Domingue had relatively few European women; French immigration to the colony was overwhelmingly male.
Afro-Arabs, African Arabs, or Black Arabs are Arabs who have substantial or predominant Sub-Saharan African ancestry.
In general, the British forces personnel socialised very much among themselves, according to their military ranks and status (i.e.
A number of economic experiments were attempted to extract as much income as possible from Bengalis; these experiments aimed not only to take wealth but to also generate more wealth in the local economy that could be taken.
The newspaper was critical of European proselytizing on the Gold Coast and by 1859 had a readership of 310 subscribers.
This article is a list of luk khrueng (Thai: ลูกครึ่ง), people of mixed European (or other race) and Thai origins.
Embarrassed by media coverage of the war and disappointed at the ineffectiveness of the occupation, U.S.
These actions lead to ostracizing Mestiços from their inherited economic benefits which sparked the group to take a new sociopolitical direction.
In Nazi Germany term for persons defined under the Nuremberg Laws as being non-Jewish but as having a significant amount of Jewish ancestry/"blood".
Company servants, for their own part, had low views of local rulers, supposing them to be despotic and corrupt.
Raimond along with other abolitionist like Abbé Grégoire, fought for liberation of free people of color separate from Blacks using Code Noir as a common piece of evidence.
The poems showcase the beauty of the toughest and notorious neighborhood in Winnipeg, the North End, where her brother also went missing.
Cape Verdeans, also called Cabo Verdeans (Portuguese: cabo-verdiano), are a people native to Cape Verde, an island nation in West Africa consisting of an archipelago in the central Atlantic Ocean.
Although this framework on race was heavily Sinocentric, it persisted in the region until the Early Modern period.
Synopsis The Proclamation defined the borders of the lands ceded to Lord Selkirk by the Hudson's Bay Company over which Miles MacDonell had been appointed Governor.
An African-American slave, he purchased his own freedom with the help of John Carruthers Stanly in 1804, and went on to have a successful building career.
Code Noir Baude, as well as hundreds of thousands of African women living along the Gulf Coast in the early 18th century had lives defined by a lack of resources, isolation, and the shared urge to survive in a hostile environment.
However, by the late-1800s, as Spanish cultural and religious influence grew on the island, Krio Fernandinos found that exclusively marrying into their traditional identity became less practical for political and economic survival.
This initiative documents and helps to understand the changes in climate within its traditional territory; the MMF Weather Keepers initiative is part of this program.
As each of these characteristics could be shared by members of adjacent African communities, identity transformations in both directions were relatively common.
He appointed a commission for this purpose, chaired by Cameron Forbes, who arrived in December 1929.
The epitaph found in the tomb records that he was a noble of the city of Yü-ho-lin / Yuhelin (尉紇驎) in the mysterious Yu country (魚國), assumably for which he is named, because the two characters 虞 and 魚 are homophones.
The Biracial Family Network (BFN), also known as the Chicago Biracial Family Network is a nonprofit organization and social group based in Chicago that was formed in 1980.
On 28 July 1915, a Haitian mob killed President Vilbrun Guillaume Sam in the legation of France, where he had taken refuge after having ordered the execution of nearly 200 political prisoners, most from the mixed-race elite.
Upon her arrival, Baude had her accompanying slaves confiscated by officials of the Company of the Indies in New Orleans.
In the 1960s, the prevailing understanding of race relations was underdeveloped and was acknowledged by sociologists for its failure to predict the anti-racist struggles.
"The Language of "Racial Mixture" in Japan: How Ainoko became Haafu, and the Haafu-gao Makeup Fad" (PDF).
Wirkak's sarcophagus is densely decorated with bas-reliefs to convey blind architectural details and a complex figural programme.
Luso-Asians in United Kingdom Luso-Asian and Lusitania people have existed in the United Kingdom since the sixteenth century, when seamen, servants, and slaves arrived through the Portuguese trade network.
Bolivian indigenista writer Alcides Arguedas used the term in his 1919 work, La Raza de Bronce, a study of the natives of the Andean Altiplano.
Makaay's decision to leave was influenced by Bayern Munich's decision to sign forwards Luca Toni and Miroslav Klose.
In the United States, bui doi, or the term "dust of life", again referred to the criminal class, where the youths included newly transplanted Vietnamese and Amerasians.
They also suffer from association with a parent whose war crimes are prosecuted in the postwar years.
Two attendants are in front of the master, one is offering a plate of fruits, the other is playing pipa.
In Brazilian censuses since the Imperial times, for example, most persons of mixed heritage, except Asian Brazilians with some European descent (or any other to the extent it is not clearly perceptible) and vice versa, tend to be thrown into the single category of "pardo".
Free people of color (French: gens de couleur libres pronounced [ʒɑ̃ də kulœʁ libʁ]; Spanish: gente de color libre) were primarily people of mixed African, European, and Native American descent in the Americas who were not enslaved.
A large group of Métis from the Pembina region hunted in Montana in the 1860s, eventually forming an agricultural settlement in the Judith Basin by 1880.
Strijdom, known as "the Lion of the North", continued the impetus to restrict Coloured rights, in order to entrench the new-won National Party majority.
Contrary to some historical accounts, these Africans were never enslaved and were not captured by the Caribs.
The race of the future is a theoretical composite race which would result from the ongoing racial admixture.
See also Castas Filipino mestizo Miscegenation Morisco Mulato Atavism Passing (racial identity) Sandra Laing Notes 1 Should not be confused with Albinism == References ==
"The 20th century K'iche Maya political activist, Rigoberta Menchú, born in 1959, used the term this way in her noted memoir, which many considered controversial.
As was typical of American Indian boarding schools the farming model was implemented, where students both learned agricultural and animal husbandry skills and grew their own food.
The steep cliffs were one of the primary reasons for the British army's choice of the island for a fortification.
Swahili elites, many of whom had extensive trade connections with Arabia, Persia, and India fashioned themselves as a quintessential Muslim aristocracy.
The tomb was discovered in 1911, and the components of the funerary bed were dispersed among various museums in the world after being offered on the art market.
His first encounter with Bayern Munich came during the 2002–03 UEFA Champions League season when he scored a hat-trick at the Olympiastadion in Munich, in Deportivo's 3–2 win over the Bavarians on 19 September 2002.
Stella and Blake get married and live in an affluent, white neighborhood in Los Angeles, California.
The government established the Sonder Kommission Nr.3 ("Special Commission 3") and appointed Eugen Fischer, of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Anthropology, Human Heredity, and Eugenics, to head it.
Along with the decree of May 15 1791, The Code Noir of 1685 (Black Code) governed slavery in the French Colonies regarded enslaved Blacks as property but granted some liberties to free people of color (mostly of mixed decent).
I remember how they wrote on benches that no Jews were allowed, and, of course, it was prohibited to sell or rent to Jews.
From 1945–1947 he stayed in the Netherlands to recuperate from the war and evaded the violence of the Bersiap period.
The Krios arrived from Sierra Leone on the island of Fernando Po in 1827, a year after Great Britain leased the island for 50 years.
Once better, he decided to obtain an American residence and complete the liberation of the Métis people that he first started in 1869.
Urban elites spurned mixed-race urban plebeians and Amerindians along with their traditional popular culture.
According to Jessica Marie Johnson, the last time she appeared in any archival record was in the 1731 census.
The Portuguese Burghers are an ethnic group in Sri Lanka, of mixed Portuguese and Sri Lankan descent.
Founder of the South West African Coloured Teachers' Association (SWACTA) in 1947, later leader of the Labour Party and Chairman of the Coloured Council for 12 years, 1962 to 1974.
Later laws and ordinances directed against "arisch Versippte" ("Aryan infested") only exceptionally concerned those "Aryans" who were married to a "quarter Jew".
On 29 September 2004, he scored a hat-trick in a 4–0 Champions League group stage win over Ajax, putting him in a select group of players to have scored a Champions League hat-trick at two clubs.
A 1998 paper which was cited in a 2015 paper said that the South Korean government put the number of Lai Dai Han at 1,500.
They came from various countries, primarily North America, Russia, and Europe, and were typically heterosexual and in their early to mid-20s.
Others treated their multiracial children as property; Alexander Scott Withers, for instance, sold two of his children to slave traders, where they were sold again.
ʻAfakasi is the common term of reference for Euronesians in Samoa; in Fiji, the term Kailoma is usually used.
The racial designations refer specifically to the number of full-blooded African ancestors or equivalent, emphasizing the quantitative least, with quadroon signifying that a person has one-quarter black ancestry.
Ideology FEDSAW's ideology was heavily influenced by the works of Hilda Watts Bernstein and Rachel Simons, who argued that women's struggles for emancipation were necessary as part of a wider struggle for liberation in the struggle for a socialist state.
Some aspects of intercultural relations also include, their power and cultural identity with how the relationship should be upheld with other foreign countries.
Brausen was about to open her own commercial gallery in London, and the two women worked to get the Hanover Gallery established.
Notable people Loren Leman, Lieutenant Governor of Alaska Jacob Netsvetov (1802–1864), "Enlightener of Alaska", saint of the Russian Orthodox Church in Alaska Peter the Aleut (d.
West Asia Saudi Arabia According to The World Factbook, around 10% of Saudi Arabia's population is of Afro-Asian descent.
The original Brussels II Regulation provided an exclusive list of jurisdictional bases that must be used when a matter falls within their scope.
Origins Originally slaves from Africa and other parts of the world who were transported to the Seychelles islands to work on various fields and plantations.
In 1962 he produced a cubic meter of 100 Franc notes (estimated value 100 million Francs) to help the FLN fight by destabilising the French currency and thus the economy.
Matikainen puts a bad feeling around and takes his car away from the traveling vacuum cleaner dealer Teuvo Hurskanen, because the installments are late.
Plot An honest, reserved goldsmith and engraver, Anargyros Loumbardopoulos (Vassilis Logothetidis), has routinely invested his money in gold coins, specifically British gold sovereigns, bought from a friend of his, a banker.
Actors who have portrayed Dawood Ibrahim in films Video games The 2018 video game Hitman 2 features a Mumbai crime lord "Dawood Rangan" who is active in the Indian film industry, presumably as a reference to Ibrahim himself.
Both Thai and Tran would later be convicted in court for conspiring and murdering Sen Van Ta in 1992.
Cast Nigel Barrie as Doctor Cheyne Wells Lillian Rich as Jane Leith James Raglan as Peter Clifton Winter Hall as John Leith Sam Livesey as Inspector Rouper Derrick de Marney as Basil Hale See also The Forger of London (1961) References Bibliography Low, Rachel.
Ceslaw Bojarski, imprisoned in 1964 for counterfeiting French Bonaparte 100 francs notes Wesley Weber, imprisoned in 2001 for counterfeiting the Canadian one-hundred-dollar bill.
Carter's particular request is that they watch for letters on blue paper sent to Mr Blunt from a purported ham merchant anxious to trace his refugee wife.
Similarly, the hands of the clock on Independence Hall on the genuine bill extend slightly beyond the inner circle; on the supernotes they stop short of it.
At the 2006 International Thessaloniki Film Festival, the film was announced as among the 10 all-time best Greek films by the PHUCC (Pan-Hellenic Union of Cinema Critics).
24), section 4, in 1708.) Extension of the act In 1797 the provisions of the act which applied to halfpennies and farthings were extended to all copper coins by the Counterfeiting Coin Act 1797 (37 Geo.
Steve pleads for leniency, arguing that although Skipper committed a crime, he was not motivated by greed, had no prior offenses and is a decorated Navy veteran.
Before the introduction of paper money, the most prevalent method of counterfeiting involved mixing base metals with pure gold or silver.
In 1932, he returned to the United States leading a salon orchestra impersonating Riccardo Drigo, an Italian composer who had died in 1930.
In North America, it was screened at various festivals in the early 1980s, while a heavily edited and shortened version became available in the form of an arcade LaserDisc video game, Cliff Hanger (1983), combined with footage from the previous Lupin III film, The Mystery of Mamo (1978).
Section 8 said that anyone who committed an offence against the act but who then provided information leading to the conviction of two or more other offenders was to be pardoned.
The ACP makes a deal with encounter specialist Daniel to find the money and share it between them equally.
Ibrahim was linked to a number of celebrities during that time, including the beauty pageant contestant Anita Ayoob and the Bollywood actress Mandakini.
The Noborito Research Institute (Japanese: 登戸研究所, Hepburn: Noborito Kenkyūjo), officially the Army Ninth Technical Research Institute (第9陸軍技術研究所, Dai-kyū Rikugun Gijutsu Kenkyūjo), was a military development laboratory run by the Imperial Japanese Army from 1939 to 1945.
Another incident involving similar notes bearing a denomination each of $500,000,000, occurred in Chiasso, Switzerland, in June 2009.
She remains wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on charges related to bombings, including the 1983 U.S.
While Butler seeks to work within the law and elect white supremacists to public office, Mathews aims to promote white separatism through domestic terrorism.
The film then flashes back to Berlin in 1936, where the man, Salomon Sorowitsch, is revealed as a successful forger of currency and passports.
He invited her to his bungalow on a day when, as she learned later, his wife and servants would be away.
Telephone salespeople, who were paid on commission and received performance-based bonuses, could offer degrees in any field requested.
The moulds were formed by pressing a coin (a denarius) into damp clay on both sides of the mould to create a stack.
Seeing a counterfeit 500-euro banknote, the shop owner gets furious and beats the woman Niko had paid with the counterfeit money.
Counterfeiting of valuable antique coins is common; modern high-value coins are also counterfeited and circulated.
For example, a modulation of laser intensity and a variation of shades of grey in texts are feasible.
US counterfeiters bleach small denominations and print more valuable bills on the resulting blank paper to evade this test, although changes to the currency since 2004 have made this method easier to detect.
Rush Hour 2 would hold the record for having the highest opening weekend for a comedy film until 2002 when Austin Powers in Goldmember surpassed it.
Its intercutting of scale puppet scenes with live-action location footage influenced the format of the company's final puppet series, The Secret Service, which made extensive use of live actors.
Usage Banknotes The following table lists some banknotes on which the EURion constellation or Omron rings have been found.
The software or scanner can then block the user from reproducing such documents to prevent counterfeiting using color photocopiers.
The film included elements that were seen in other Arsène Lupin works, including La Justice d'Arsène Lupin by Boileau-Narcejac, involving the discovery of a tremendous stash of forged franc notes with which World War I–era Germany had planned to destabilize the French economy.
28) was an act of the Parliament of Great Britain which made it high treason to counterfeit silver, copper or brass coins, where previously the crime of counterfeiting such coins had been a misdemeanour.
The clothing worn by characters was brought up-to-date, while the old steam locomotives that were initially featured were replaced by more modern diesel or electrified alternatives.
The Secret Service is also tasked with investigating reports of the existence of specimens of the extremely rare 1933 double eagle gold coin, as only a single example of the thirteen known survivors from this mintage year is authorized to be owned or sold.
After some time the pair realised that they had produced a substantial work that would suit a feature film.
The judge forgoes a potential term of 15 years by sentencing Skipper to one year and one day in prison, making him eligible for parole in four months.
It was a box office success with 208,410 tickets only from the first run in Athens, more than any other movie for that season.
References External links Media related to Flag Day (film) at Wikimedia Commons Official website Flag Day at IMDb John Vogel: "Counterfeiting suspect sought - Daily Globe Newspaper Archives, February 10, 1995 Feb 10, 1995, p.
Plot Is there a link between the murder of five foreign sailors from the East whose bodies have been found on the San Pedro waterfront and the issue of one million counterfeit dollars in the USA?
The Imperial Army used items produced by Noborito in a variety of operations, including special incendiary devices for raids on jungle camps in New Guinea and hydrogen cyanide for assassinations.
In 2023, Edmondson revealed that he wrote the initial scripts with Mayall in the hope that the BBC would reject them.
It revolves around a villager who is tasked with locating his urbanite cousin and marrying her, with the intention of reuniting their separated family.
The trailer was originally scheduled to release on 12 November, however it was postponed due to the 2025 Delhi car explosion.
After getting dressed, Carter tries to return to the massage parlor to retrieve his passport so he can return home.
The CBCDG maintains a website designed to advise the public about national laws related to the reproduction of banknotes.
Under the new Fifth Republic, which significantly strengthened presidential authority, de Gaulle and his allies sought to preserve French influence across sub-Saharan Africa even as most colonies achieved formal independence in 1960.
When Tuomas's sentence ends, Niko, now a teacher, receives him and gives him a 500 euro banknote and says that it's real.
Counterfeiters (based on his short film by the same name), tells the story of a young man, Bridger, who creates a "do-it-yourself" method of counterfeiting money to save his dying mother.
It is tasked with conducting criminal investigations and providing protection to American political leaders, their families, and visiting heads of state or government.
The multiple aircraft featured throughout the story were redrawn by Studios member Roger Leloup, who replaced the depiction of planes that were operational in the 1930s to those active at the time, such as a Percival Prentice, a D.H.
The film focuses on two NYPD detectives who arrest a member of the yakuza and must escort him back to Japan.
The album was launched through Aditya Music label on 19 May 2013 in a promotional event held at Shilpakala Vedika in Hyderabad.
The money was realistic enough that some of the film's extras pocketed it and attempted to spend it illegally outside of the production, which led to said fake money being confiscated and destroyed by the U.S.
Usage Currency commonly exhibits the highest quality (smallest size) of microprint because it demands the highest level of counterfeiting deterrence.
In a public discourse in June 2017, Ram Jethmalani confirmed that after the Bombay blasts, Dawood Ibrahim had called him from London, saying that he was prepared to come to India and stand trial, on the condition that he should not be subjected to any third degree treatment from the police.
The gang was using equipment capable of printing £1 million per day, and claimed to produce $500,000 in fake dollars a day.
For a second offence, the punishment was two years' imprisonment followed by another two years of good behaviour under surety.
He recruits the police in a sting operation at the local racetrack to catch Bailey and convinces Steve to let him watch the $100 betting window.
Jim Mann, appointed by Governor of Kansas Sam Brownback as the Chief Information Technology Officer of the State of Kansas on October 31, 2011, claims a degree in Business Administration from the University of Devonshire.
Kennedy, Clint Hill, was riding in the car directly behind the presidential limousine when the attack began.
Currency printed by local racketeers can be detected easily as they use the photographic method, hand engraved blocks, lithographic processes and computer colour scanning.
According to her birth certificate, her mother's name was Louise Elisabeth Accard, and she was unemployed, while her father's name was Victor Adnet, and he was a railway employee.
It would gross NT$16,880,798 during its theatrical run, placing seventh at the Taiwanese box office of 1986.
In 1978, Thai briefly attended New York University, whereupon he met a fellow Vietnamese refugee from Da Nang who was also a student at the university.
Sorowitsch's talents bring him wider attention, and he is transferred out of the concentration camp.
It has engaging moments, and serves as a testament to the evolving nature of Telugu cinema, where traditional storytelling is being melded with contemporary cinematic sensibilities".
The 'Napoleon Bonaparte' banknotes In November 1962, Ceslaw Bojarski switched from counterfeiting 5,000-franc notes for the recently redesigned 'Bonaparte' 100-franc notes.
However, both the script and most of the filming for Raiders of the Lost Ark was completed by early 1981, years before The Castle of Cagliostro first became available in English.
She is annoyed at Steve when he keeps her in the dark about the counterfeit ring he is tracking down.
With the income he earned from the sale of his forgeries, Nicotra rented seven apartments in Milan, each for a mistress.
Chin Kar-lok as Wong Siu-ming (黃小明), a rookie security guard working for Ng's Insurance Company who Charlie enlists as his assistant.
Kounterfeit is a 1996 American direct-to-video crime/thriller film starring Bruce Payne and Hilary Swank.
The Congressional Research Service has conducted a study and concluded with an accusation that North Korea was responsible for their production, but Pyongyang denied any involvement with Superdollar.
Plot As described in a film magazine, Virginia Griswold, whose family is in financial straits, resolves to remedy the situation by finding the source of widely distributed counterfeit bills, as a large reward is offered for the capture of the maker of the fake bills.
A clue takes her to Newport where she poses as one of the idle rich and falls in love with Stuart Kent, a man of means, who returns her affection.
Industry reports noted that, despite early adjustments to reported figures, the film's sustained second-week performance was driven largely by organic word of mouth and audience demand.
The organization decides about their: Shape (often hexagon or square), Hologram means visual effects, Letters engraved into each particle.
After Todd's funeral, Axel learns that several clues left behind by the killers point to WonderWorld; a theme park in Beverly Hills, California, owned by "Uncle Dave" Thornton.
Marius Gratidianus, a praetor during the 80s BC, was widely praised for developing tests for detecting false coins and removing them from circulation.
The August opening weekend record would be held for six years before being surpassed by The Bourne Ultimatum in 2007.
The plan was put to a halt when Mészáros immigrated to Turkey and Windischgraetz realized that it relied on crude printing technology.
Such related new materials may include further details regarding “the potential unauthorized deletion” of text messages, particularly those from around January 5 and 6, 2021, by the Secret Service, then headed by Director James M.
Ali Raza and Dhruva Chatterjee, it stars Manoj Kumar, Hema Malini, Pran, Premnath, Bindu, Kamini Kaushal and Om Shivpuri.
Plot Torchy Blane is in the police station when a secret service agent Charles Gilbert ask the police for help in catching "$100 Bailey", a counterfeiter who has eluded police capture for fifteen years and is passing hundred dollar bills.
37 – 30th Street – defence, Housing Authority, Karachi" and "Palatial bungalow in the hilly area of Noorabad in Karachi".
Gravell Watermark Archive Thomas Gravell watermark collection, Special Collections, University of Delaware Library, Newark, Delaware.
Amazon Prime Video acquired the rights to stream in multiple international territories excluding the United States, and it premiered on Amazon in the UK on December 27, 2024.
Section 7 stated that anyone who apprehended someone for treason or felony against the act, or for an offence under section 6, was to be given a reward for each person convicted: 40 pounds for each traitor or felon, and 10 pounds for each person offending against section 6.
An anonymous caller tells Madan that his father's death was no accident, but planned, and asks him to meet her in Madras.
This strongly suggests that the forger used genuine coins, or metal cut from them (clipping), to supply the material for the foils.
It's functional and all the parts fit together smoothly, making it run like a fairly well-oiled machine -- but it lacks real spark.
The two parties meet each other, and while everything is going smoothly, Saradhi's henchmen arrive along with Sweety and threaten Sanyasi Naidu to kill her if Prakash and the ₹50 crores are not handed to them.
The beggar (Mimis Fotopoulos) is in fact a cunning liar with exceptional eyesight, who manages to earn the pity of everyone with his fake blindness.
Jan intends to trade the cook to the Dutch gangsters in return for watermarked paper for counterfeit banknotes, and tasks Lukas, Geert, and Lisa to the task.
Several of the prisoners selected later reported that Krüger had interviewed them for the role, and treated them with politeness and good manners.
Nonetheless, Corey praised the acting of Hilary Swank, stating that she 'is the reason this film deserves to be seen' as 'she does her best to give life to a character that barely reads on the page' and 'seems very calm dealing with a script that over twists itself with the subterfuge'.
References External links Beverly Hills Cop III at IMDb Beverly Hills Cop III at Box Office Mojo Beverly Hills Cop III at Rotten Tomatoes Beverly Hills Cop III at Metacritic
Plot A trail of counterfeit hundred dollar bills has been discovered in several places around the world.
A state investigation reported that the institution was neither recognized nor accredited in the United Kingdom or the United States and that Shal's university diploma contained two misspellings.
Le cave se rebiffe is a 1961 French comedy film directed by Gilles Grangier, written by Michel Audiard and starring Jean Gabin, Bernard Blier and Martine Carol.
Dragan Antulov stated that 'the plot recycles many obligatory elements of low budget crime movies (vengeance as the prime motive for one of the protagonist, good guys who don't turn out so good at the end) and combines them with Tarantinoesque portrayal of small time criminals as protagonists'.
Instead of the correct obverse legend “Georgius III Rex”, it may read “George Rules,” “George Reigns” or similar.
A new facility for the section was built in 1939 in the Noborito area of Tama-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa Prefecture, located across the Tama River from Tokyo.
In the following months, the anarchist was noticed for acquiring various chemicals used in counterfeiting.
Connecting of a hologram with the protected item is a critical task, and there are many specific technologies for it.
The Reagan assassination attempt also involved several Secret Service agents, particularly agent Tim McCarthy, who spread his stance to protect Reagan as six bullets were being fired by the would-be assassin, John Hinckley Jr.
Fred Patten, who worked at Streamline Pictures was involved in the English adaptation of the film and was involved in the choice of title for the English release, The Japanese title is Lupin III: Cagliostro no Shiro, which is literally Lupin III: Cagliostro of Castle [sic].
During this meeting however, Thai made it strictly clear that all of the many separate Vietnamese factions within the city would go under a single name and banner: Born to Kill, which would override any other name that any of the smaller groups had chosen for themselves.
McLean also noted that, although he was a lone dissenter now, Justice Joseph Story had agreed with him after the initial arguing of the case before the court.
Pete realizes that this is an assignment that demands his full attention, so he immediately breaks up with his girlfriend in preparation for the journey he must take.
The president was evacuated but returned later and told the White House press corps that the man had a gun.
Shinoda, a military engineer who studied chemistry at Tokyo Imperial University, oversaw its growth to a peak of almost 1,000 employees, with the largest budget of the 10 numbered research institutes.
After being released and moving to Belgium, she began counterfeiting there, leading to her arrest in 1897 and subsequent conviction to six years in prison.
Plot Agent Lam teams up with JJ to track a pair of plates used to make counterfeit American dollars.
Reception In a contemporary review, Louis Kronenberger of The New York Times praised the novel its use of multiple perspectives, building on "the creative and panoramic method of Balzac and Tolstoy".
Synopsis Following his military discharge, Tom Martinez returns home to Philadelphia and learns his wife Susan is pregnant.
However, SaiKo's life takes a drastic turn when Gayathri is diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy and requires an injection of Zolgensma, which costs ₹17 crore.
Lukas' daughter is driven away, and Lukas is forced to participate in a new assignment, the kidnapping of a crack cocaine cook.
"Preserve the evidence, hopefully a politician comes in the future who will act", says Sanyal in a scene set in 2008, in retrospective anticipation of the coming Narendra Modi government.
The artist's original intent was to throw them off a building, but after some of the notes were dropped at a festival, he discovered that they could pass for legal tender and changed his mind.
Twice in the last week he has been summoned away to an urgent case but on each occasion the call has been a hoax.
Nagesh initially wanted to play a different role from Madan's PA Avinashi, but when Haasan asked him if he would play his role, Nagesh retorted, "As if you'd give me that if I asked you for it!" He was interested in playing Thirupurasundari's kleptomaniac grandmother before S.
Soundtrack The soundtrack to Flag Day features original music by Eddie Vedder, Glen Hansard and Cat Power.
Due to the injured nightclub patron's status as the son of a member of the European Parliament, Lukas is investigated by the authorities, led by the mysterious Maxim, regarding the fight.
After the foundation of Israel, he stopped doing this work, refusing to support a "religious state" that endorsed the secular-religious status quo and that included an important State role for the Chief Rabbinate of Israel; he became a photographer.
In addition, Saward and his associates fenced stolen goods; they helped with the disposal of the stolen gold from the Great Gold Robbery of 1855.
The officers have been called out to more than 35 businesses over the past two months in connection to counterfeit $50 notes.
States also agree to establish a central office that will forward to all other state parties cancelled specimens of their state's currency and notify the other states when changes to their currency are implemented.
Music Theme song Enchanted (心醉) Composer: Wong Sing-to Lyricist: Chan Ka-kwok Singer: Andy Lau Insert theme True and False (真真假假) Composer: Jonathan Lee Lyricist: Calvin Poon Singer: Andy Lau, Teddy Robin References External links imdb listing
Critical reassessment After consulting a panel of industry filmmakers and critics, the Hong Kong Film Awards ranked A Better Tomorrow second in its 2005 list of the Best 100 Chinese Motion Pictures.
Ann determines that Mister 880 is Skipper, but she is torn between loyalty to Steve and adherence to the law versus compassion for the elderly man.
He was ordered to use the Jewish prisoners incarcerated in the Nazi concentration camps, and set up his unit in blocks 18 and 19 at Sachsenhausen.
Also charged as co-conspirators were Marilyn Jean Buck (wanted for her role in the 1981 Brinks armored car robbery), Laura Whitehorn, Linda Sue Evans, Susan Rosenberg, and Timothy Blunk.
The FTC filed a preliminary injunction in January 2003 and amended complaints in February and May 2003.
That which was not burnt by the prisoners was loaded onto trucks with the printing equipment and sunk in the Toplitz and Grundlsee lakes.
The film centres on a Jewish counterfeiter, Salomon 'Sally' Sorowitsch, who is coerced into assisting the operation at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp.
See also List of fugitives from justice who disappeared References External links Duke's FBI wanted poster Court docket for "USA v.
In Spokane, Washington, Bob Mathews, Pierce, Yarbrough, and David Lane rob a Washington Mutual branch.
If the sheriff failed to pay then he was to forfeit double the reward money, plus treble the costs of suing him, which would all be paid to the informer.
On release the offender then had to provide sureties to be of good behaviour for another six months.
Charlene Tse as Lung's girlfriend who desires the Koran to honor her grandfather and father, who have respectively died and gone mad for the Koran.
Release Theatrical The film was released on 13 January 2024, coinciding with the Sankranti festival along with dubbed versions in Hindi and Tamil languages.
With one dirham having a value of nearly 14 pesos, this has led to vending machine fraud in the United Arab Emirates.
Despite being credited for the story, Kashmiri had not received his due of ₹11 lakh (equivalent to ₹1.1 crore or US$130,000 in 2023) as of 2013.
Mann subsequently resigned the post on November 7, 2011, after questions about his credentials were published.
Normally the Philadelphia mint would not have included one, but in 1944 all of its nickels had a "P" above the dome of Monticello.
He fled from India to Dubai in 1986 after being wanted by the Mumbai Police for the murder of Samad Khan.
Current currencies for which all recent banknotes use the constellation are in bold and whose central banks are members of the Central Bank Counterfeit Deterrence Group are italicised.
William Chaloner, a British counterfeiter, was convicted by Sir Isaac Newton and hanged on 16 March 1699.
One day after an interview with Internal Affairs, Nick and his current partner Charlie Vincent witness a lunch meeting between a Mafioso and some Japanese men gone wrong when a yakuza named Koji Sato arrives and kills the Japanese men after taking a small package from them.
Parodies of banknotes, often produced for humorous, satirical or promotional purposes, are fantasy issues, referred to as 'skit notes'.
Matt Spector stated that the film 'is enjoyable with enough action scenes and twists and turns to keep the audience interested'.
Cast William Baldwin as Tom Martinez Peter Gallagher as Bob Mathews Kelly Lynch as Susan Martinez Stephen E.
The thread is a difficult feature to counterfeit, but some counterfeiters have been known to print a thin grey line or a thin line of varnish in the area of the thread.
Using such substrate enriched with microholograms enables producers to implement anti-counterfeit protection at several levels.
On boarding a plane for Venezuela, which has no extradition treaty with France, he finds Ferdinand waiting for him.
In September 2019, it was announced that musical director Wang Yong-beom would be adapting the film and its sequel into a South Korean stage musical.
For example, apart from Séverine, who dedicated several front-page columns in La Fronde to Adnet's case, the rest of the press at the time typically gave her only one or two paragraphs.
Police mugshot Her police mugshot is part of the collections at the Metropolitan Museum of Art (MET).
He also created forgeries of letters and other documents purportedly written by famous historical figures, including Christopher Columbus, Leonardo da Vinci, Abraham Lincoln, the Marquis de Lafayette, Martin Luther, Michelangelo, and George Washington.
Section 6 made it a crime to "make, coin or counterfeit any brass or copper money, commonly called a halfpenny or a farthing," to be punished with two years' imprisonment followed by providing sureties for another two years' good behaviour.
External links Mister 880 at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films Mister 880 at IMDb Mister 880 at the TCM Movie Database (archived version)
Blitzen shows up at the police station and leads Steve, a squad of police and Charles to the gang's hiding place.
The Travel Channel's show Mysteries at the Museum featured a segment on Kaminsky in its 12 October 2017 episode.
Steve is offered a job in France, where counterfeiting is increasing, but he declines, partly because of Ann and partly because of the unresolved 880 case.
Microholograms are a technology for moving holographic protection to the level of primary material (substrate).
It is one of Ingster's two films noir, the other being Stranger on the Third Floor (1940), an early picture in the genre.
Burger was a Jewish Slovak typographer who was imprisoned in 1942 for forging baptismal certificates to save Jews from deportation and was later interned at Sachsenhausen to work on Operation Bernhard.
Following World War I, Dondon joined the group around the publication Le Libertaire, attending lectures by Sébastien Faure and joining the group's Sunday excursions.
Counterfeiting was so prevalent in the early nineteenth century that contemporary accounts like those from author John Neal claimed that as much as half of the US currency in circulation was counterfeit.
Carl Banks tries to print some more money and finds one of the counterfeit plates but can't print any money when his crooked ex-boss and his cops, who are counterfeiters as well, catch him at his base.
Pierce and Lane try to escape and are immediately apprehended, while Mathews makes a stand, repelling the FBI as they attempt to storm the house.
Thomas McAnea, also known as Hologram Tam, a Scottish master counterfeiter regarded as one of the most skillful in Europe with regard to banknote security holograms.
Aids to spot watermarks have been developed, such as watermark fluid that wets the paper without damaging it.
The last part of this section was amended by the Counterfeiting Coin Act 1797 to extend it to all copper coins ordered by royal proclamation to be current in the realm, not just halfpennies and farthings.
Cast Production Writing Written by Gary Murphy and Larry Strawther, two devoted Sherlockians, the film originally had the working titles The Imposter of Baker Street and Sherlock and Me.
In 2011, government sources stated that these counterfeit bills were in "worldwide circulation" from the late 1980s until at least July 2000 in an extradition court case.
Brought in front of the police officer who arrested him in Berlin, he finds himself put together with other prisoners with artistic or printing talents and begins working in a special section of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp devoted to forgery.
The plotters sought to intentionally damage the French economy through the large scale production of counterfeit French francs.
A short film about Kaminsky entitled The Forger accompanied an online New York Times article in October 2016.
Murphy admitted one of his motivations for making a fourth Beverly Hills Cop film was to make up for the fact that the third film was "horrible" and that "he didn't want to leave (the series) like that".
After seeing the ring, Lupin recognizes the woman as Clarisse, the princess of Cagliostro, who will soon be married to Count Cagliostro, the country's regent against her will.
Sources Article from holography news Description of microholograms on OPTAGLIO web site Technický týdeník (in Czech)
Venugopal is seemingly killed by Nandagopal and his nephew, Ramu for his inheritance; unknown to them, the will has already named Madan as the beneficiary.
Windischgraetz agreed to provide funding for the operation with Imre Nádosy, the Chief Captain of National Police joining the plot in the same year.
Funeral of Vinh Vu Vinh Vu's funeral procession took place on July 28, 1990, and lasted over the span of two days in which it was attended by between a hundred-and-twenty-five to nearly two hundred mourners.
Because they turned Bojarski in, his two accomplices Chouvaloff and Dowgierd were exempted from punishment.
Miyazaki would cite Italian Mountain Cities and the Tiber Estuary from Kagoshima Publishing as influencing the production of the film.
The mission of the Central Bank Counterfeit Deterrence Group (CBCDG), originally designated as Special Study Group 2 or SSG-2 of the G10, is to investigate emerging threats to the security of banknotes and to propose solutions for implementation by issuing authorities.
(2010), Recognizing Banknote Patterns for Protecting Economic Transactions Database and Expert Systems Applications (DEXA), 2010 Workshop on', IEEE, 247–249.
The original version of the film, which was released in Europe under the title Lukas, is mostly in French with some Flemish, and English with everything subtitled, while The Bouncer, released a year later in the United States, had some scenes cut and is dubbed into English.
In numismatics, an evasion (also evasion coin, evasion token) is a close copy of a coin with just enough deviation in design and/or legend to avoid violating counterfeit laws.
Mohan lies to Simran that he will not return from Bangalore until that evening, intending to surprise her.
Wu Ma as Ka Yik-chun (賈亦真), a gold counterfeiter who both Charlie and Cheuk hire to make a fake Koran.
There, he realizes his father is Kaliannan Gounder, an industrialist who disowned him due to his passion for music.
After Rupniowski died unexpectedly, Machówna returned to Poland and asserted her right to inherit his estates.
Because of this, reimbursement for hospitals' programs has been subject to suspension during multiple government shutdowns, including for almost two months in 2015.
Baron Swinfen, of Chertsey in the County of Surrey, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom.
It provides a 24/7 nursing platform for chronic conditions, powered by artificial intelligence (AI) and has a text-messaging type interface.
The portal's HIPAA-compliant technology and ability to enable health providers to exchange medical record data, documentation and images distinguish it from chat-room-style portals for the medical community.
Teladoc acquired Consult A Doctor for $16.6 million cash in 2013, allowing smaller companies to access Teladoc's services.
Support for industry standards made it possible to integrate with many personal health record solutions.
Australian dermatologists have been reported as reflecting on teledermoscopy by saying "that it is valuable, [and] advanced dermatology service" but given the option "they would prefer face-to-face consultation with patients where possible to allow for a full body examination".
Gas sensing Gas sensing capsules utilize a gas-permeable membrane surrounding an electrochemical gas sensor and are primarily used to detect the partial-pressures of different gasses produced as the byproduct of metabolic reactions by bacteria in the intestines.
Secondly, after the preceding considerations, the multidisciplinary assessment is carried out in order to describe and assess the different outcomes of the telemedicine application.
A spokesperson for BetterHelp's parent company told Snopes that this was "an independent initiative" and that Israel's government was not involved.
Partnerships Pilot uses the lure of celebrities in their marketing, including players from the NRL team, the Cronulla Sharks, for which Pilot is a named Sponser.
Despite certification issues, the company continued spending tens of millions of dollars on ads on platforms like Google, TikTok, and Meta.
The platform does not collect or store patient health information, only the healthcare provider knows the patient's identity, which ensures patient privacy and security through anonymity.
A typical system comprises a central unit connected to one or more peripheral devices, such as blood pressure monitors, weight scales, glucometers, pulse oximeters, peak flow meters, or stethoscopes.
More recently, a number of online doctors have emerged in the country, firms such as Now Healthcare Group, Dr Fox Pharmacy, Push Doctor and Lloyds Pharmacy offer consultation and prescriptions via the Internet.
Earliest instances Although, traditional medicine relies on in-person care, the need and want for remote care has existed from the Roman and pre-Hippocratic periods in antiquity.
History The company initially partnered with Align Technology as an exclusive third-party distributor for its aligners.
Treatments are being developed for the prevention and management of a wide variety of diseases and conditions, including type 1 & type II diabetes, congestive heart failure, obesity, Alzheimer's disease, dementia, asthma, substance abuse, ADHD, hypertension, anxiety, depression, and several others.
This data is transmitted through telephone lines to a secure server at the manufacturer's data center before being uploaded to a secure web-based application.
Messaging Automation The goal of messaging automation is to maintain professional standards, automate next steps and reminders, and reinforce care advice and health education while lowering the communication burden on users.
Before an appointment is scheduled or a refill service is provided, a review of patient symptoms is needed to validate that the actions being taken are likely safe for the patient or those around them (e.g.
In 2022, Cope Notes won the People's Choice award at the Startup of the Year summit, a national competition featuring tech firms, venture investors, and startups across the United States.
In February 2022, Will Furness was appointed Chief Executive Officer (CEO) In November 2022, Thriveworks opened 18 play therapy centers, for children aged 12 and under.
This statement is based on the definition of Health technology assessment (HTA) in the EUnetHTA project.
Safety It is possible that the digital pill and pacemakers may interfere with each other, however, this has not been verified.
Requirements for in-person examinations A major limitation to telemedicine is the absence of in-person examinations.
The facility contains 300,000 square feet of workspace on a 41-acre site and cost $54 million to develop.
It was featured in Life_(magazine) in 1970, reflecting broader public interest in the use of television for medical diagnosis.
Medical imaging HealthVault supported storage, viewing, uploading, and downloading, by consumers and third parties, of DICOM based medical imaging.
A specialist survey at Mayo Clinic agreed that e-consult was less disruptive than consultations by telephone or pager by 67%.
Health service representatives assist callers with speaking to a registered nurse, dietitian or pharmacist about health related concerns or find health resources in their area.
There are indications telehealth consumes fewer resources and requires fewer people to operate it with shorter training periods to implement initiatives.
Overview The first emergence of a swallowable electronic device was in 1957, this device used radio frequency to transmit temperature and pressure readings.
Pristine took second place at HATCH Pitch 2013, a start-up pitch competition that was held at the George R.
Then-CEO Eren Ozagir claimed that there were factual inaccuracies in the CQC report, and that the guidelines against which the inspection took place were completely new.
While such partnerships can bring in multi-million dollar revenues, ultimately the pharmaceutical company itself will seek reimbursement and is potentially not the ultimate customer.
Formerly known as American Well, a telemedicine company that connects patients with doctors over a secure video platform.
(2010) differs from the RPM methodology illustrated in the overview, which involves actual collection and transmission of physiological data through point-of-care devices.
Charles "Chuck" Divita, III, was appointed CEO in June 2024, leading the company's further expansion.
Börve studied at the Sahlgrenska Academy based in The University of Gothenburg, where he was a researcher in mobile health and tele-dermatology.
Subsequently, the Australian government banned pharmacy compounding of GLP-1 medicines, requiring all providers to transition their patients to approved commercial products.
Pilot's services are accessed through an online pre-screening questionnaire, followed by a consultation with a GP or pharmacist.
In 2008, the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain reported that approximately two million people in Great Britain were regularly purchasing pharmaceuticals online (both with a prescription from registered online UK doctors and without prescriptions from other websites).
This is an example of teleradiology If appropriately configured, the remote guidance can originate from another room or floor in the same building, too as far away as another continent or even planet.
Complications related to robotic surgeries range from converting the surgery to open, re-operation, permanent injury, damage to viscera and nerve damage.
The company has expanded its offerings to include health solutions for both men and women, along with mental health services.
Store and forward Store-and-forward telemedicine involves acquiring medical data (like medical images, biosignals etc.) and then transmitting this data to a doctor or medical specialist at a convenient time for assessment offline.
Gregg Givens in 1999 in reference to a system being developed at East Carolina University in North Carolina, US.
Through virtual consultations the company connects patients with clinicians who may prescribe medications such as Adderall, Ritalin (methylphenidate), and Vyvanse (lisdexamfetamine).
With the outbreak of COVID-19 in early 2020, healthcare professionals reduced in-person visits to minimize exposure.
Overall, symptom remission was achieved by 26% of patients with anxiety and 29% of those with depression.
Applications Based on research conducted in the United States by the Capital Area Consortium on Aging and Disability, the bandwidth of 128 kbs was useful in a wide range of medical and nursing applications of THC.
The RPSGB has identified the most popular products prescribed online as Prozac (an antidepressant), Viagra (for erectile dysfunction), Valium (a tranquilliser), Ritalin (a psychostimulant), Serostim (a synthetic growth hormone) and Provigil (a psychostimulant).
Their program was restricted to Medicare beneficiaries over the age of 65 within their catchment area with conditions such as heart failure, pneumonia, and cellulitis.
The access of the website within the country was also restricted by the Infocomm Media Development Authority.
If a patient uses more than one organization for healthcare, the patient typically needs to log on to each organization's portal to access information.
In September 2014 NHS England announced a replacement, but much lower profile, new "technology enabled care services" programme.
Registered dietitians are available Monday to Friday 9 am – 5 pm to assist callers with dietary and nutrition questions over the telephone.
External links Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant and Loan Program Archived 2013-09-17 at the Wayback Machine official website
Not only is telepsychology cost-effective, it also helps connect medical professionals to underserved patients while being more comforting and convenient to both parties.
History Entrepreneur Mike Russell started Monument after selling his third startup, Paintzen, when he realized that he was a binge drinker and struggling with alcohol use disorder.
As patients are left without on-site staff for most of their admission, they are equipped with remote monitoring equipment allowing their vital signs to be constantly monitored for changes which may require intervention.
This recommendation from the American Dental Association was strongly adopted by dental insurance carriers who in turn went a step further to include value added benefits to their dental insurance policies to allow for teledentistry.
Digital clinical data transmission increases the risk that outside sources may intercept and exploit sensitive patient information.
In telephone-based therapy, there is verbal communication, but no non-verbal communication which is present in video calls, for example.
Sierra Leone During the Ebola outbreak in West Africa in 2014, Satmed, in conjunction with German Doctors brought internet access to the Outpatient Clinic of Serabu Hospital in Bo District in Sierra Leone.
Beginning in 2012, Continua invites non-members to request a copy of its Design Guidelines after signing a non-disclosure agreement.
In September 2024, Talkiatry partnered with BetterHelp, becoming a telepsychiatry provider for BetterHelp's employer clients through BetterHelp Business.
Pamela Sasse Whitten is an American scholar in communication studies, currently serving as the 19th president of Indiana University since July 2021.
In April 2021, the company was the subject of an analysis claiming it to be "a Toxic Roll-Up" and accusing it of various forms of malpractice, including aspects of the CRH acquisition.
Applications comprise health care management such as diagnoses, consultation and treatment as well as (continuing medical) education.
One study looked at the efficacy of avatar-based therapeutic interventions to reduce depressive symptoms.
Estimates suggest that between 48% and 100% of service users who were already receiving care at the start of the pandemic were able to continue their mental health care using remote methods.
Laurence Buckman, chairman of the British Medical Association’s GPs’ committee, says that online consultations make life easier for doctors and patients when used properly.
Lithium ion batteries are dangerous to the human bodies digestive system and therefore cannot be used.
He said that "a diagnosis from an online survey is not a diagnosis, but a guess" and called DrEd "a covert online-pharmacy".
Operations Dutch provides video consultations for non-emergency conditions such as allergies, anxiety, ear infections, and urinary tract infections, with assessments based on owner descriptions, medical history, and visual evaluations.
Telemetry systems can either be attached externally to animals, or placed internally, with the types of transmission for the devices dependent on the environment that the animal moves in.
Mergers and acquisitions In 2019, GoodRx acquired HeyDoctor, a telemedicine company, to integrate virtual healthcare services into the platform.
The use of virtual patients is increasing in healthcare due to increased demand for healthcare professionals and education of healthcare trainees, and provides learners with a safe practice environment.
On reviewing the former MP's new role, the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments stated there was "some risk around the potential for [Blackwood] offering the company an unfair advantage as a result of her time in office".
It was acquired by Square Health, a provider of private digital healthcare for insurance companies and corporates, in December 2021.
Research also suggests comparable therapeutic factors, such as changes in problematic thinking or behaviour.
To launch the platform, they raised AUD $2 million from investors, including Blackbird Ventures and Comcast Ventures founder Daniel Gulati.
In July 2012, Stiftung Warentest, a German consumer organisation, tested DrEd with patients allegedly having bladder infection and chlamydia infection.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) defines Telehealth, or telemedicine, as a course of care that “lets your health care provider provide care for you without an in-person office visit.
Within the United Kingdom, the clinic is the only private provider of health care for transgender youth, where it is seen by some as the only available option due to lengthy waiting lists and uncertainty following the announced closure of the Tavistock clinic.
Virtual patients attempt to combine modern technologies and game-based learning to facilitate education, and complement real clinical training.
In January 2019, Hims raised $100 million in a Series C funding round with a pre-money valuation of $1 billion.
For example, out of seven coronary artery bypass grafting, one patient had to go under re-operation.
Ownership of health data At a global level, the implementation of digital health solutions depends on large data sets, ranging from simple statistics that record every birth and death to more sophisticated metrics that track diseases, outbreaks, and chronic conditions.
Tele-audiology is the utilization of telemedicine to provide audiological services and may include the full scope of audiological practice.
In June 2017, Your.MD raised $10 million in funding from its series A round, bringing total funding to $19 million.
A 2012 study found that e-patients uploading videos about their health experienced a loss of privacy, but also positive benefits from social support.
2025–present In January 2025, the company added its virtual cardiometabolic programs to Amazon Health Services health benefits connector.
A series of complex laparoscopic procedures were performed where in this case, the expert clinician would support the surgeon who was less experienced, operating on his patient.
Because of this, there is a potential risk of data theft or unauthorized access if appropriate safeguards aren't in place.
Some of iMedicor's partner associations include the Association of Black Cardiologists (ABC), the American Society for Hypertension (ASH), and the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Association (HCA).
Unlike simulated or real patients, virtual patients can be accessed on demand, and the user may monitor a case over several months while spending less than an hour in real time.
Bird’s work also received attention in popular media, including coverage in Reader's_Digest in 1968.
WELL Health Technologies is a digital health technology company based in Canada and serving outpatient health clinics.
Promoting research and education, including the sponsorship of scientific educational meetings and the Telemedicine and e-Health Journal.
In July 2017, Push Doctor raised a further $26.1m in Series B funding, taking the company's total funding to $37.5m.
2017–2020 In its largest acquisition at the time, in 2017 Teladoc spent $440 million purchasing Best Doctors, a consultation firm and provider of medical second opinions and medical award listings.
On appeal, the Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service (MPTS) found in 2022 that while Webberley failed to provide adequate follow-up care to two patients, she was competent to provide treatment to trans youth and adults.
The Lark apps focus on common chronic conditions such as obesity, diabetes prevention, diabetes, and hypertension.
The subscription-based platform targeted drug seekers, discouraged proper medical care, and defrauded Medicare, Medicaid, and private insurers.
China Between 2006 and 2008, a large scale teleretinal screening project using mobile units was implemented in China.
A study suggests that combining cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) with SlowMo, an app that helps people notice their "unhelpful fast-thinking" might be more effective for treating paranoia in people with psychosis than CBT alone.
In a 2025 Tampa Bay Business Journal article, it was reported that Cope Notes' services were included in UnitedHealthcare's Florida Medicaid contract, partnering with UnitedHealthcare for a five-year statewide agreement.
(Healthline, launched in 2005, grew by 269% to 2.7 million average monthly unique visitors in Q1 2007 from 0.8 million average monthly unique visitors in Q1 2006).
Singapore A study conducted in 2020 and published in 2021 in Singapore which surveyed patients at two National University Health System (NUHS) hospitals, National University Hospital and Alexandra Hospital, found broad interest in the concept of a hospital-at-home program.
Amazon Clinic uses third-party vendors and does not currently accept health insurance, instead charging a flat fee.
In Germany, approximately seven million people buy from mail-order pharmacies, and mail-order sales account for approximately 8–10% of total pharmaceutical sales.
In August 2017, Push Doctor introduced a £500 medical student grant, which is open to medical students at any UK university from their second year onwards.
See also eHealth Ontario References External links Alberta Netcare official site Alberta Netcare Remote Login Portal Alberta Privacy Commissioner report on the May breach Archived 2018-07-19 at the Wayback Machine
Debate surrounds the potential cybersecurity issues of RPM, including the likelihood of hacks which could pull personal medical data.
When a specialist answers the PCPs e-consult request, he or she responds using the Note Title specifically for that specialty clinic.
Not only has telehealth become known among the public, but providers have also had extremely positive interactions with these services.
He also directed the medical station at Logan International Airport, a hospital-administered airport clinic established in the early 1960s.
ATA Annual Meeting – the world's largest scientific meeting and exposition focusing exclusively on telemedicine, with hundreds of presentations, posters and workshops.
Career Bird spent much of his career at Massachusetts General Hospital, where he specialized in pulmonary medicine.
Access to a record was through a HealthVault account, which may have been authorized to access records for multiple individuals, e.g., so that a parent could manage records for their children, or a child could access their parent's records to help the parent deal with medical issues.
Also, there is still the need for an anesthesiologist and a backup surgeon to be present in case there is a disruption of communications or a malfunction in the robot.
Patients either view online patient education programs and materials in a medical office or from their homes or other remote locations with Internet access.
HealthLink BC also works with the Government of the Yukon to provide services to residents of the Yukon.
This policy change facilitated the arrest of students, faculty, and community members who were occupying Dunn Meadow.
THC can potentially improve patient outcomes, increase healthcare providers' productivity, and reduce healthcare costs.
Early on, Cerebral partnered with gymnast and Olympic gold medal winner Simone Biles as their Chief Impact Officer.
In response, the Indiana University Board of Trustees reaffirmed their support for Whitten and her administration, although it was later revealed that the support was not unanimous.
Green said that the donation would likely provide support for 24 people, with each individual receiving a year of free care.
One notable study conducted by APA Psych Net shows that there are no significant differences between telepsychology and in-person practices.
and Wan, Y., (2009) Web Services-based Distributed System with Browser-Client Architecture to Promote Tele-audiology Assessment, Journal of Telemedicine and E-Health, Vol.
The respondents who rated their mental health as good when compared to those with poor mental health, had 30% lower odds of having a mental health problem at a follow-up.
Remote dispensing of medications by automated packaging and labeling systems can also be thought of as an instance of telepharmacy.
History Planned Parenthood Direct initiated services in 2015, when it launched the Planned Parenthood Direct app in California.
Patient intake and registration are processes whereby patient demographics, health history, legal consents, and payment means are collected so the patient can be “registered” with a healthcare provider.
This step involves mainly assessment of the maturity of the technology and the organization planning to use it.
Although digital pathology imaging, including virtual microscopy, is the mode of choice for telepathology services in developed countries, analog telepathology imaging is still used for patient services in some developing countries.
Furthermore, virtual patients can be endlessly replayed and easily modified to allow the user to explore different clinical scenarios and patient outcomes.
Digital dermoscopic images can be taken with a digital camera attached to a dermatoscope or special video cameras suited for dermoscopy, e.g.
Without this expansion, these companies could have lower service quality and put at risk the data and privacy of their consumers.
However, emergency telepsychiatry services are already being provided to hospital emergency departments, jails, community mental health centers, substance abuse treatment facilities, and schools.
An important field of interest of telehomecare in dermatology is the follow-up treatment of individuals with skin conditions requiring regular follow-up such as crural ulcers or psoriasis management.
However, most RPM technologies follow a general architecture that consists of four components.: Sensors on a device that is enabled by wireless communications to measure physiological parameters.
By using telehealth, patients can meet with their doctors from anywhere without the need to take time off of work.
Overview On February 27, 2025, the company announced that Dave Bourdon would become the company's new chief executive officer, replacing Ken Burdick who had been CEO since 2022.
In June 2008, the German Aerospace Centre (DLR) presented a robotic system for minimally invasive surgery, the MiroSurge neurosurgical robotic system.
In the everyday clinical setting, skin biopsies are taken by the physician directly responsible for the individual and are assessed by a dermatopathologist.
Founder and CEO, Brandon M Welch, MS, PhD, co-authored the book Telehealth Success: How to Thrive in the New Age of Remote Care.
This funding was intended to offset the costs of electronic medical record systems for practicing physicians.
History Pristine was founded by Kyle Samani and Patrick Kolencherry in May 2013, shortly after Google announced the Google Glass program.
It is reported that Eucalyptus currently has an annual revenue run-rate (ARR) upward of US$450 million and delivers quarterly triple-digit year-on-year ARR growth in 2025.
Although virtually any physiological signal could be transmitted, application is typically limited to cardiac monitoring and SpO2.
As part of the 2025 contract extension, Medicaid recipients in Tampa, Lakeland, Ocala, Jacksonville, and Miami were able to receive the service at no cost.
See also Mhealth Telehealth Telemedicine Ehealth West Wireless Health Institute Continua Health Alliance Don jones (wireless health) == References ==
Electrochemical sensing Voltammetry can be used in vitro on stool liquid as a Gi tract diagnostic tool.
You can use electronic consultation through online platforms or mobile apps and request a virtual visit with doctors, practitioners, and therapists.
Commonly, it offers options to provide treatments, monitor health conditions, assist patients, and enable healthcare professionals to extend their services.
In this program, a licensed pharmacist at a central site communicates with remote site pharmacy technicians and patients through videoconferencing.
(2011) Audiology Telepractice in a Clinical Environment: A Communication Perspective, Journal of Otology, Rhinology and Laryngology.
A 2010 study found that Wikipedia's article on osteosarcoma was of decent quality, but that the National Cancer Institute (NCI)'s page was better.
Additionally, the UNESCO chair was promoted the network of Telemedicine together with Argentina, Venezuela, Peru, and participated in ITU-Developing World Congress in Malta 1997, and Georgia Telemedicine meeting in 1999.
This is because they do not allow for physical examination or an in-depth medical history of an actual patient.
For instance, a patient with prediabetes may be prescribed digital therapeutics as a method to change their diet and behavior that could otherwise lead to a diabetes diagnosis.
The lack of standardization of RPM nomenclature and definition makes it difficult to differentiate between different forms of patient monitoring involving technology.
This maintains the confidence in both individual and collective ability to deliver treatment over the telephone.
Outside of regular visits, patients have routes to immediately connect with program staff to request assistance, and emergency services are available for dispatch in case a patient requires emergent care or requires transfer to the hospital for care not available in an HAH setting.
See also Talkspace – American virtual counseling and therapy service company Telepsychiatry – Mental-health care by telecommunication == References ==
Depending on the comorbidities monitored, RPM involves a diverse selection of devices in its implementation.
On January 22, 2025, The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that Whitten's doctoral dissertation had more than three dozen instances of copied language without a source, or plagiarism.
HIPAA requires that patients identifiable information be encrypted so that only the healthcare professionals involved in their care can access it.
Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) has been integrated into twelve mobile apps, though only six have been found to be acceptable to use in conjunction with a professional.
A year later under the leadership of its President/CEO S Eric Wachtel, MedPhone introduced a mobile cellular version, the MDPhone.
Your.MD also known as Healthily, is a digital healthtech company that uses artificial intelligence to provide users with personalised health information via a chatbot.
Bird’s work at Massachusetts General Hospital and Logan Airport was described in contemporary accounts, including Michael_Crichton’s Five_Patients, which examined hospital practices and emerging medical technologies in the late 1960s.
Diagnostic application software that develops treatment recommendations and intervention alerts based on the analysis of collected data.
In the UK, Health Bridge Ltd., the company that owns zavamed.com, is registered with and regulated by the Care Quality Commission.
This includes virtual care facilities for remote care, services or platforms used for specific steps within the healthcare industry, and clinical navigation.
Google Health also appeared to focus on health-related artificial intelligence research, clinical tools, and partnerships for other healthcare tools and services.
The SSL certificate for the remote login portal is TLS_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA, 112 bit keys, TLS 1.2.
The launch of iMedicor's portal coincides with the entrance of Microsoft's Healthvault and Google Health into the personal health record space.
Telemedicine: physical and psychological diagnosis and treatments at a distance, including telemonitoring of patients functions and videoconferencing; Telerehabilitation: providing rehabilitation services over a distance through telecommunications.
Healthcare professionals can then access and review the patient's information from any location with internet connectivity.
Anvari, a laparoscopic surgeon in Hamilton, Canada, has conducted numerous remote surgeries on patients in North Bay, a city 400 kilometres from Hamilton.
Partners In October 2014, Pristine was announced as an official partner of Google’s "Glass at Work" program.
In April, the visits were peaking at around two thousand per week and they have dropped to around five hundred a week in June 2020.
Technology companies are developing mobile-based artificial intelligence chatbot applications that use evidence-based techniques, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), to provide early intervention to support mental health and emotional well-being challenges.
This makes e-visits a very interesting proposition for insurance companies, although few actually reimburse for them currently.
Office visits led to higher rates of prescriptions (46.8%), lab tests (41.4%), and imaging (20.5%) compared to video (38.4%, 27.4%, and 11.9%, respectively) and telephone visits (34.6%, 22.8%, and 8.7%, respectively).
A properly structured medical record, preferably in electronic form, should be a component of this transfer.
Messaging automation in a Healthcare CRM includes HIPAA compliant secure messaging over email, fax, SMS, and web chat.
History The organization was launched in 2001 as the BC HealthGuide Program by Ministry of Health (British Columbia).
The study was initiated by a 2024 partnership between Cope Notes and the Central Florida Behavioral Health Network, which was later extended in 2025 and again in 2026.
In February 2023, federal investigators intercepted He in San Francisco as she prepared to travel to Hong Kong.
Acute Care Services The second group of these services is known as acute care in the digital health domain.
Findings from the VHA Care Coordination/Home Telehealth program show that RPM deployment resulted in significant savings to the organization.
For emergencies or conditions requiring physical exams, imaging, or surgery, Dutch refers pets to in-person veterinary clinics, including Petco’s Vetco Clinics, and collaborates with pharmacies like PetMeds for prescription fulfillment.
The company was conceived after a transformative experience in couples therapy that saved their marriage.
However, largely the dental insurance companies had not made these codes payable to dentists in the event that they were actually billed when a teledentistry service was rendered to a patient.
