In 2009 in the Spiegel, the largest weekly news magazine in Europe, Karen Duve described the manifesto as "astute and highly relevant for current affairs".
In 2009, Hemant Mehta at The Friendly Atheist ranked Christina's blog in the Top Ten most popular atheist blogs.
What worries thoughtful theologians such as Bonhoeffer is that gaps shrink as science advances, and God is threatened with eventually having nothing to do and nowhere to hide.
He has been awarded the Presidential Faculty Fellows Award from the White House and the National Science Foundation.
The themes of the first two prizes are the reduction of inappropriate antibiotic use, and enhancing the safety and independence of dementia sufferers.
He has taught evolutionary biology, speciation, genetic analysis, social issues and scientific knowledge, scientific speaking and writing.
Onfray is often regarded as being left-wing; however, some observers have stated that he has right-wing tendencies.
Freedom from Religion Foundation He is the current co-president with his wife Annie Laurie Gaylor of the Freedom from Religion Foundation, an American freethought organization that promotes the separation of church and state.
In 2012, he pioneered the use of concepts from information theory as a measure of complexity in nature.
National Academy of Sciences rescinded Ayala's membership for violation of Section 4 of the NAS Code of Conduct, effective June 23, 2021.
A review in The Times praised the book as a "powerful counter-blast against the monstrous regiment of 'useful idiots'".
Career He holds law degrees from the University of London (LLB) and UCD (LLM) as well as a primary degree in philosophy from University College Cork, an MA and PhD from the University of Notre Dame and the higher doctorate, DLitt, from the National University of Ireland.
There is nothing more; but I want nothing more." Hitchens dedicated the anthology to the memory of Primo Levi and prefaces the book with quotes from Levi's If This Is a Man and The Drowned and the Saved.
His philosophy is mainly influenced by such thinkers as Nietzsche, Epicurus, the Cynic and Cyrenaic schools, as well as French materialism.
The Pantheon of Skeptics was created by CSI to remember the legacy of deceased fellows of CSI and their contributions to the cause of scientific skepticism.
He wrote that one can "think of DNA as an instructional script, a software program, sitting in the nucleus of the cell." He appeared on The Colbert Report and on Fresh Air radio to discuss his book.
coli long term evolution experiment, and examples seen in the wild, such as Peter and Rosemary Grant's study of Darwin's finches in the Galápagos Islands.
Boghossian was Chairman of the Prison Advisory Committee for the Columbia River Correctional Institution.
Its success has been seen by many as indicative of a change in the contemporary cultural zeitgeist and has also been identified with the rise of New Atheism.
Science blogger PZ Myers condemned these posts and went on to debate many of Kirk's past claims about feminism, writing that "this kind of thing has always been part of his YouTube schtick." After the incident, Kirk apologized to the Reddit user in a private message and later made a public apology.
As a speaker, she is a member of the Speakers Bureau for the Secular Student Alliance and the Center for Inquiry.
A professor emeritus of ecology and evolution at the University of Chicago, he has published on the theory of evolution.
Stenger who argues that there is no evidence for the existence of a deity and that God's existence, while not impossible, is improbable.
Making secular views and people welcome in politics and policy-making will advance human safety, security, health, achievement, prosperity and most of all, science."The organization began accepting members in April 2015.
Overcome any tendency towards tradition blindness by informing yourself in depth from all sides before making a decision!
an atheist or antitheist) could not possibly perform, and conversely, to name one immoral action that only a person with a faith could perform or has performed in the past.
Celestial Teapots suggests that the comparison with Russell's teapot is misplaced because Cornwell claims there are prima facie, albeit inconclusive, grounds for believing in God.
[whose] extended essay covers some similar ground to the others, notably in analysing the extent of Dawkins's ignorance of theology.
His doctoral students have included Roger Blandford, Craig Hogan, Nick Kaiser Priyamvada Natarajan, and James E.
In 2011, he debated with Stephen Law on the topic 'Why Won't God Go Away?' He was interviewed by Richard Dawkins about his book Dawkins' God and faith in general for the television documentary The Root of All Evil?
The modern atheist movement has three bodies of thought, according to LeDrew: scientific atheism, the view that religion is opposed to scientific truth; secular humanism; and libertarianism combined with rationalism.
The book explores what Hart identifies as historical and popular misconceptions of Christianity's detractors, with early material in the book being especially critical of New Atheism.
In 2017 Breitbart, CPAC and Simon & Schuster severed their ties with Yiannopoulos based on comments from the episode where Yiannopoulos spoke positively of sexual relationships between boys and adult men.
Raised on a small farm in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley, Collins was home schooled until the sixth grade.
He talks about the need to sustain "moral communities", a venture in which he feels that the separate religious moral identities of the "saved" and the "damned" can play no part.
Christina writes that she has struggled with depression off and on throughout most of her adult life, and considers herself chronically depressed and expects to take antidepressants for the rest of her life.
He was a member of the School of Philosophy in University College Dublin (UCD) (Head from 2001 to 2006) from 1986 until he retired in December 2015.
On May 27, 2020, Hedges announced that he would run as a Green Party candidate in New Jersey's 12th congressional district for the 2020 elections.
Abandoning a New Atheist movement "in terminal decline" for a new vehicle, "she remains on the same crusade, inveighing against Islam and having simply exchanged one banner for another".
Several aspects of both "Go God Go" and "Go God Go XII" pay homage to Buck Rogers in the 25th Century, a science fiction adventure television series produced by Universal Studios.
Richards) (2004) ISBN 0521815169 The Evolution-Creation Struggle (2005) ISBN 0-674-01687-4 Darwinism and its Discontents (2006) ISBN 0-521-82947-X Cambridge Companion to the Origin of Species (edited with Robert J.
In Chapter 6, Hitchens recalls being a foreign correspondent in the Soviet Union and a trip to Mogadishu, and how these experiences convinced him that, "his own civilisation was infinitely precious and utterly vulnerable".
Writing in The Verge, Adi Robertson stated that RationalWiki provided a good explanation of Time Cube, though conveying the "full impression" of the original Time Cube website was all but impossible.
Creation Museum visit Myers's engagement as keynote speaker at the 2009 Secular Student Alliance Conference in Columbus, Ohio, developed into an August 7, 2009, trip, in which 304 attendees visited the nearby Creation Museum in Petersburg, Kentucky.
Harris considers the variety of religions in the world, citing a religious basis for many ethnic and inter-communal conflicts.
Lindsay has written several books including Cynical Theories (2020), which he co-authored with Pluckrose.
Publications Musicals Mary Had a Little Lamb (Manna Music 1977) His Fleece Was White as Snow (Manna Music 1978) Books Barker, Dan (1990).
He also contributed a foreword to white supremacist commentator Stefan Molyneux's book Against the Gods.
"From Here to Mullahcracy", in Lila Azam Zanganeh (ed.), My Sister, Guard Your Veil; My Brother, Guard Your Eyes: Uncensored Iranian Voices, Beacon Press, 2006.
According to Armstrong, "My aim in this book is simply to bring something fresh to the table." References Sources Armstrong, Karen (2009).
The BMJ, while supporting the authors' assessment of the problem, was critical of the proposed solution.
Academic reviewers had praised the hoax studies of Lindsay, Boghossian, and Pluckrose as "a rich and exciting contribution to the study of ...
However, they had essentially forced themselves to create another episode, which they partially disliked because it meant they'd have to write more material concerning atheism when they felt they had done enough.
He describes himself as Catholic in religion, conservative in social matters, and libertarian in political matters.
Non-theists deserve a seat at the table just as theists do; the rally should put secular values "on the radar" of American voters.
This combination of high-level technical ability and highly naïve child-like beliefs could have disastrous consequences in the long run.
In July 2013, the RationalWiki Foundation changed its name to the RationalMedia Foundation, stating that its aims extended beyond the RationalWiki site alone.
Dawkins finds the pupils rote learning biblical stories, which are integrated into various academic subjects.
Dawkins describes his foundation's purpose this way:"Critical thinking is the real saviour of humankind.
Jonah Goldberg, writing in the National Review, said the "label is a bit overwrought", writing that it struck him "as a marketing label – and not necessarily a good one.
Kenneth Krause gave it a mixed to negative review in The Humanist criticizing the lack of an explanation of "how we can interest and invest the popular media in the serious science their viewers and subscribers have so evidently rejected" while characterizing the book with Chicken Little analogies.
In his book The Cameron Delusion Hitchens argues that in the last few decades, the Conservative Party has become virtually "indistinguishable from Blairite New Labour".
Honours and awards He has been president of the Royal Astronomical Society (1992–94) and the British Science Association (1995–96), and was a Member of Council of the Royal Institution of Great Britain until 2010.
Humanism Hutchinson subscribes to a radical humanist vision that eschews religious and social hierarchies of race, gender, sexuality, class, and ability status because they undermine the universal human rights, bodily autonomy, and self-determination of Black and BIPOC peoples.
She also suggested that both books are part of a modern debate that is suffering from the fact that the two sides do not concentrate on one definition of religion.
and Dawkins' God) argues that Dawkins is ignorant of Christian theology, and therefore unable to engage religion and faith intelligently.
Although Cartman successfully uses the Time Phone to call several people in the past including himself, they all hang up on him, and thus the attempt to prevent his do-it-yourself cryonics experiment fails.
Religion and morality The second half of the book begins by exploring the roots of religion and seeking an explanation for its ubiquity across human cultures.
To rectify this, large portions of the episodes that more reflected Parker and Stone's personal opinions were removed and replaced with less serious material.
In that vein, he says that science practices methodological naturalism, although it does not rule out the supernatural (i.e.
Cynical Theories (2020) Conspiracy theory promotion Lindsay has promoted several conspiracy theories.
Goldstein has written two biographical studies: Incompleteness: The Proof and Paradox of Kurt Gödel (2005); and Betraying Spinoza: The Renegade Jew Who Gave Us Modernity (2006).
In 2015, Christina received the first Secular Student Alliance Ambassador Award, which was the 2015 Secular Student Alliance Ambassador Award.
Stenger was born on January 29, 1935, and raised in a working-class neighborhood of Bayonne, New Jersey.
He cited American journalist Glenn Greenwald's comments on the Charlie Hebdo shooting as an example.
As a proponent of New Atheism, he is often cited with atheists such as Richard Dawkins and Sam Harris.
So the acceptability of axioms for modal logic depends on which of these uses we have in mind." Evolutionary argument against naturalism In Plantinga's evolutionary argument against naturalism, he argues that if evolution is true, it undermines naturalism.
On 1 September 2008 McGrath took up the chair of theology, ministry and education in the Department of Education and Professional Studies at King's College London.
Its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, subtropical or tropical moist montane forests, and rivers.
If this enjoyable comedy has a message it is that you shouldn't believe all you read on the internet.
According to him, regressive contrasts progressive, the former being a group that "[looks] for the worst in people ...
Chapters Lucretius: De rerum natura (On the Nature of Things) – Books I, II, III, V, translation by W.
Hitchens's political perspectives also appear in his wide-ranging writings, which include many dialogues.
Synopsis The book focuses on four major New Atheist figures, collectively known as the "Four Horsemen": Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens.
In The Tablet, Keith Ward criticised Dawkins for what he considered to be an indiscriminate and simplistic approach to religion.
He also describes as flawed his brother's assertion in God is Not Great that "the order to love thy neighbour 'as thyself' is too extreme and too strenuous to be obeyed".
David Silverman was the creator and executive producer of the event, and the president of the Reason Rally Coalition.
Plantinga has also developed a more comprehensive epistemological account of the nature of warrant which allows for the existence of God as a basic belief.
Allen Orr described the book as "an accessible account of what might be called the natural history of religion".
Synopsis Dawkins dedicates the book to Douglas Adams and quotes the novelist: "Isn't it enough to see that a garden is beautiful without having to believe that there are fairies at the bottom of it too?" The book contains ten chapters.
Peels distinguishes between weak scientism, which limits the validity of science to specific areas, and strong scientism, which extends this validity to all fields of knowledge.
Kirk addressed the issue further in a 2014 YouTube video entitled "Rape, Feminism, and The Amazing Atheist", in which he again apologized for the incident and explained the context in which it happened: his remarks were meant to be satirical commentary on trigger warnings.
Meaningoflife.tv In 2002, Wright ventured into video-on-Internet with his MeaningofLife.tv website, developed by Greg Dingle, where he interviewed a range of thinkers on their ideas about science, philosophy, meditation, spirituality, and other topics.
Critical reception In The Daily Telegraph Christopher Howse concentrated on the moral arguments in the book, and agreed with Hitchens that "to determine what is right and what is wrong without God, is difficult".
A moderate Muslim might be open to discussion of four of her suggestions if the question were framed sensitively.
(...) In a very pleasing style, it takes on every aspect of the blindness and human evil produced by religions.
Byrnes also reviewed the book in The Independent, where he questioned the validity of a number of Hitchens's conclusions, including that "atheists 'actively wish for disorder and meaninglessness'".
As long as science and rational thought are under attack by the misguided yet pious majority, our nation is in jeopardy.
The tone swerves hilariously between puerile double-entendre (there’s a running sequence of gags about ‘seeing Upper Bottom’) and lacerating comedy about the atheist movement and its acolytes".
In 2010, Trent Toulouse incorporated a nonprofit organization, the RationalWiki Foundation Inc., to manage the affairs and pay the operational expenses of the website.
Rubin described the regressive left as "the left's version of the Tea Party" and said that the regressive left would damage the Democratic Party similarly to the way that the Tea Party movement damaged the Republican Party.
He was featured in a New York Times article about the growth of atheism in Southern states, has given addresses on his own "de-conversion" across the United States, and has participated in more than 140 debates around the country and the world.
Instead, society's morality has a Darwinian explanation: altruistic genes, selected through the process of evolution, give people natural empathy.
The atheist Sikivu Hutchinson criticized the merger of the secular organizations Center for Inquiry and the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science which gave Richard Dawkins a seat on the board of directors of the Center for Inquiry.
He has apparently not read the detailed discourses of Count Roderigo of Seville on the exquisite and exotic leathers of the Emperor's boots, nor does he give a moment's consideration to Bellini's masterwork, On the Luminescence of the Emperor's Feathered Hat.
2015 In April 2015, RDFRS launched the Teacher Institute for Evolutionary Science (TIES) to provide middle school teachers with workshops and free online tools to teach evolution and answer its critics.
The author argues that strong scientism is untenable and self-confuting because science itself is based on common sense assumptions and non-scientific principles.
Nine times out of ten, one will be told not of some dogma of religious certitude but of some instance of charitable or humanitarian work undertaken by a religious person.
Dawkins and Harris seem unfamiliar with religious tradition as biblical monotheists know it from personal experience and deep study.
In contrast, Stenger believes that religion often makes claims that are very much within the abilities of science to investigate.
Kirk previously had over one million subscribers on his main channel, and has over 445 million views in total.
Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny was a The New York Times Book Review Notable Book in the year 2000 and has been published in at least nine languages.
Dawkins complained of the difficulty he faced in gaining tax-free status, which he attributes to the secular nature of the organization.
Publishing Castalia House In early 2014, Beale founded Castalia House publishing in Kouvola, Finland.
However, Onfray decides that Ferreira was not such a good candidate as Meslier, since Ferreira converted to Zen Buddhism.
In 2017, Boghossian was featured in Reasons to Believe, a documentary focusing on psychology and the science of belief.
Boghossian is the author of two books, A Manual for Creating Atheists (2013), a book with a foreword by Michael Shermer, and How to Have Impossible Conversations: A Very Practical Guide (2019).
The first Reason Rally was a public gathering for secularism and religious skepticism held on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., on March 24, 2012.
He received honorary doctorates from the University of Bergen, Norway (1990), McMaster University, Ontario, Canada (2003) and the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada (2007).
He received an undergraduate degree from the University of Bristol (1962), his master's degree at McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario (1964), and a Ph.D.
(1999) ISBN 0-674-00543-0 Biology and the foundation of ethics (1999) ISBN 0-521-55923-5 Can a Darwinian be a Christian?
On April 13, 2007, he was awarded the first of 100 bicentennial medals at Mount Saint Mary's University for lecturing there as the first presenter for the Bicentennial Distinguished Lecture Series.
She said that there are many goals for the atheist movement – more separation of church and state, ending "bigotry against atheism", and for some, persuading people "out of religion", and that it is a "valid goal" to work towards a world without religion.
Career In 1983, Goldstein published her first novel, The Mind-Body Problem, a serio-comic tale of the conflict between emotion and intelligence, combined with reflections on the nature of mathematical genius, the challenges faced by intellectual women, and Jewish tradition and identity.
2009 In March 2009, following proposed anti-evolution resolutions by Oklahoma State Representative Todd Thomsen, including condemning a visit by Dawkins to Oklahoma, he instructed the U.S.
Telepolis writes that Schmidt-Salomon mentions a pretty combination of science, philosophy and arts as an opposite of religion.
Gerard Casey (born 1951) is an Irish academic and former politician who is Professor Emeritus at University College Dublin.
Awards and honors 2014 Intersections Honoree, Intersections International 2013 Media Bridge-Builder Award, Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding 2013 Peter J.
The Delusion of Disbelief: Why the New Atheism is a Threat to Your Life, Liberty, and Pursuit of Happiness.
Media appearances Barker has appeared on dozens of national television and radio programs to discuss and debate issues related to atheism and the separation of state and church.
Nonetheless, science historian James Gleick describes Dawkins's concept of the meme as "his most famous memorable invention, far more influential than his selfish genes or his later proselytising against religiosity".
The book describes Hitchens's journey from atheism, far-left politics, and bohemianism to Christianity and conservatism, detailing the influences on him that led to his conversion.
In September 2023, astrophysicists, including Gleiser, questioned the overall current view of the universe, in the form of the Standard Model of Cosmology, based on the latest James Webb Space Telescope studies.
Event organizers were targeting an attendance of 30,000 people but the organizers estimated only 15,000 to 20,000 showed up and another source estimated even less actually came to the rally.
Stenger does not think we should be dogmatic about disbelief in God, but says the evidence is overwhelmingly against the belief.
Hamburger describes leftists along with liberals and progressives as the "primary adversaries" of the IDW.
At the very least, such views are legitimate—they may be mistaken, but not because of an elementary error, a confusion of science with ideology, or an offhand dismissal of the humanities.
He sees organized atheism as attempting to actively convert people in the same way as many religions do.
The essay generated criticism both from Christians, who interpreted her conversion to Christianity as merely a cultural response and not a spiritual one, as well as from atheists who were "baffled" that she had not addressed what they considered materialist rebuttals of Christianity.
In contrast, Wikipedia's content was comparable to the Encyclopedia Britannica, leaned slightly liberal and its editors leaned centrist.
In 2014, Ruse was named the Bertrand Russell Society's award winner for his dedication to science and reason.
It requires only that individuals of a species vary genetically in their ability to survive and reproduce in their environment.
presidential campaign, Steven Pinker chose Letter to a Christian Nation as the one book that he would want Barack Obama to read, saying: "Some have criticized the uncompromising tone of this atheist best seller, but it's mild stuff compared with the acid you guys have been flinging around.
I wasn't ashamed of them when I was doing them in private, I see no reason to be ashamed of them now that they've been made public." In 2012, Kirk was widely criticized for incendiary comments made on Reddit before he deleted his account.
Atheist Manifesto: The Case Against Christianity, Judaism, and Islam (French: Traité d'athéologie) is a 2005 book by French author Michel Onfray.
War on drugs Hitchens has written about the enforcement of drug laws, most notably in his book The War We Never Fought (2012).
According to the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, the argument also "conflicts with important theistic doctrines" such as the notion of a heaven where free saved souls reside without doing evil, and the idea that God has free will yet is wholly good.
Journalists including Howard Jacobson had accused Dawkins of giving voice to extremists, a claim Dawkins responded to by noting that the National Association of Evangelicals has some 30 million members, and also that he had invited the main UK religious leaders to participate, but they all declined.
Bill Donohue's Catholic League responded with a letter demanding the University of Minnesota and the Minnesota State Legislature take action against Myers.
She has also co-organized and co-hosted the Godless Perverts Story Hour and the Godless Perverts Social Club.
Together with 36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction, it established her as a prominent figure in the humanist movement, part of a wave of "new new atheists" marked by less divisive rhetoric and a greater representation of women.
In 2009, When asked by Bill Moyers if God is a figment of the human imagination, Wright responded: I would say so.
In December 2007 the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster was credited with spearheading successful efforts in Polk County, Florida, to dissuade the Polk County School Board from adopting new science standards on evolution.
Krauss, musician Tim Minchin, MythBusters co-host Adam Savage, actor-comedian Eddie Izzard, Paul Provenza, PZ Myers, Jessica Ahlquist, Dan Barker, and magician James Randi, and others.
Boscaljon recommended the book to general readers and undergraduate students to "understand the shape of atheism and how it has changed", praising that it offers "an excellent analysis of tensions and differences within the atheist movement" more broadly than just New Atheism.
In October 2015, The Washington Times reported that the American comedian and show host Bill Maher and British biologist and New Atheist author Richard Dawkins had "lamented regressive leftists who fail to understand they are anything but liberal when it comes to Islam".
The foundation has been granted charitable status in the United Kingdom and status as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit private operating foundation in the United States.
Life Born in Argentan to a family of Norman farmers, Onfray was sent to a weekly Catholic boarding school in Giel from ages 10 to 14.
Christopher Eric Hitchens (13 April 1949 – 15 December 2011) was a British and American author and journalist.
Summary Chapter One, "What is Evolution?", gives a brief overview of Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection as theory and fact.
Twelve sessions of psychotherapy with secular licensed therapists, either online or on-location, are made available to all forum participants.
In September 2021, Boghossian resigned his position from Portland State University, citing harassment and a lack of intellectual freedom.
Rees's post-graduate work in astrophysics in the mid-1960s coincided with an explosion of new discoveries, with breakthroughs ranging from confirmation of the Big Bang, the discovery of neutron stars and black holes, and a host of other revelations.
God's Simplicity claims that Dawkins imagines that God is an object but this is not how theologians think about God.
Individuals and publications associated with the term may reject what they view as authoritarianism and ostracism within academia, the (mainstream) science community, and progressive movements in Western countries.
In addition to Myers's criticisms of Egnor's arguments on evolution and Intelligent Design, Myers criticized the Discovery Institute's reliance on someone whose expertise wasn't relevant to evolution.
Michael Escott Ruse (21 June 1940 – 1 November 2024) was a British-born Canadian philosopher of science who specialised in the philosophy of biology and worked on the relationship between science and religion, the creation–evolution controversy, and the demarcation problem within science.
During the 2010 United Kingdom general election, Dawkins officially endorsed the Liberal Democrats, in support of their campaign for electoral reform and for their "refusal to pander to 'faith'".
The responses were "Bad", "Way Bad", and "Worse than Cartman", with the third choice receiving 80% of the votes.
Daniel Edwin Barker (born June 25, 1949) is an American atheist activist and musician who served as an evangelical Christian preacher and composer for 19 years but left Christianity in 1984.
The concept can be traced to the work of Julian Huxley, the first UNESCO Director General and a major contributor to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
He receives a phone call from a future Cartman, warning him to not freeze himself, but he dismisses it as a prank call from Kyle.
Harris quotes from Eastern mystics such as Padmasambhava and Nisargadatta Maharaj, but he does not admit any supernatural element into his argument – "mysticism is a rational enterprise", he contends, "religion is not".
McGrath is noted for his work in historical theology, systematic theology, and the relationship between science and religion, as well as his writings on apologetics.
With goals of bringing unity, energy, and visibility to the secular demographic, the rally can be seen as a manifestation of the secular movement that emerged in America and elsewhere in the first decade of the twenty-first century.
2010 "The War on Terror as Political Violence", in Marie Breen Smyth, ed., The Ashgate Research Companion to Political Violence.
Reception Science press The journal Science Communication gave the book a favourable review, noting that the arguments presented "may make the Ph.D.
Goldstein is a MacArthur Fellow, and has received the National Humanities Medal and the National Jewish Book Award.
unable to get out of bed in the morning without the dual guidance of God and Karl Marx." Amis said the views Eagleton attributed to him as his considered opinion was in fact his spoken description of a tempting urge, in relation to the need to "raise the price" of terrorist actions.
About Launched in March 2011 as a collaborative effort to provide an online space where deconverted clergy could gather to support and encourage one another, the Clergy Project eventually grew to become its own independent organization, receiving 501(c)(3) status in early 2015.
It addresses what Hitchens views as the national myth of the Second World War, which he believes did long-term damage to Britain and its position in the world.
The brothers fell out after Peter wrote a 2001 article in The Spectator which allegedly characterised Christopher as a Stalinist.
In December 2006, Casey, along with host Pat Kenny and Richard Dawkins, appeared on The Late Late Show to discuss Dawkins's book The God Delusion.
I at no point sought a public audience for these comments, and never sought to solicit anyone’s anguish.
Godard wrote, "What Hitchens can't seem to appreciate is that, even if 'Soviet Communism is organically linked to atheism, something his brother and others argue against (if somewhat feebly), and even if one accepts that Soviet tyranny was horrible, this says little about the existence of God".
Overview For Hitchens, arguments for atheism can be divided into two main categories: those that dispute the existence of God and those that demonstrate the ill effects of religion.
Flynn summarised that the book has "undeniable strengths, but its many and serious flaws erode its value".
Speakers urged those assembled to contact local and national representatives and ask them to support church-state separation, science education, marriage equality for gays and lesbians, and ending government support of faith-based organizations, among other causes.
Dawkins' website, richarddawkins.net, was banned in Turkey later that year after complaints from Islamic creationist Adnan Oktar (Harun Yahya) for alleged defamation.
His commentary focuses mainly on the Abrahamic religions, although it also touches on other religions, such as Eastern religions.
A negative response by the online atheist community to Watson's account of the incident soon spread across several websites, including Reddit, and became highly polarized and heated.
History According to Alexa Internet, Pharyngula.org was started on June 19, 2002 as an experiment in writing instruction for a class.
In answer to their appeal to the Bible on questions of morality, he points to selected items from the Old Testament Mosaic law (death for adultery, homosexuality, disobedience to parents etc.), and contrasts this with, for example, the complete non-violence of Jainism.
Fundamentalism suggests that it is important to distinguish between tolerant and violent forms of faith.
A MacArthur Fellowship in 1996 led to the writing of Properties of Light (2000), a ghost story about love, betrayal, and quantum physics.
He has been associate editor of the publications Evolution (1985–1988; 1994–2000) and The American Naturalist (1990–1993).
The brothers reportedly fell out after Peter wrote a 2001 article in The Spectator which allegedly characterised Christopher as a Stalinist.
Seymour was born in Ballymena, Northern Ireland to a Protestant family, and currently lives in London.
Cartman is informed of the possible presence of a Nintendo Wii at the Museum of Technology in New New Hampshire.
(A critique of scientist Richard Dawkins' attitude towards religion) The Big Question: Why We Can't Stop Talking About Science, Faith, and God (2015), St.
One day, he is called to the hospital and told that his son Vivek has been up all night masturbating continuously until he fainted.
Location shooting for King Richard's castle was at Alnwick Castle in Northumberland and the surrounding countryside in February 1983.
He has appeared on several national radio and television shows, including The Jon Stewart Show on MTV.
In 2016, Empire magazine ranked Holy Grail 18th in their list of the 100 best British films (Life of Brian was ranked 2nd), their entry stating, "Elvis ordered a print of this comedy classic and watched it five times.
The bridge, located between Earlsdon and Coventry city centre, is known locally as "Anarchy Bridge".
Wilson points out that the Soviet Union, which suffered from this in spades, got to the point that it was terrified of painters and poets who could do little harm to them in reality.
Together with musicals and light comedy in which nuns appeared, they were part of a propaganda attempt to make Spanish cinema feel good and new.
The Church also celebrates several holidays in honor of characters from fiction and popular culture, such as Monty Python, Dracula, and Klaatu.
Possible sequel On January 4, 2015, Maher tweeted a photo of himself and director Larry Charles with the caption: "Director Larry Charles on the Hawaii trip this year...was "Religulous II" discussed??", suggesting the possibility of a sequel.
Meanwhile, the events are witnessed by an extraterrestrial spaceship which has a monkey for a captain.
In the web series A Murder at the End of the World, there is a scene referencing the editor wars where a character asks a woman if she uses Vi or Emacs.
Emacs advocates have been known to respond that the editor is actually very good, but the operating system could use improvement (referring to Emacs' famous lack of concurrency, which has now been added).
In his review, Stephen Holden also wrote that "the film has the same loose, on-the-road structure" as Larry Charles' previous film Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan and commented: "Much of Mr.
attitude and expressed admiration for Bush's successor, then-President-elect Barack Obama, for whom he had great expectations.
In January 2017, Nijmegen Pastafarian and law student Mienke de Wilde petitioned the Arnhem court to be allowed to wear a colander in her driver's license photo.
Ishtar Rising, fully titled Ishtar Rising: Why the Goddess Went to Hell and What to Expect Now That She's Returning, is a book by Robert Anton Wilson published in 1989.
The collection features the original Natural Law article, but also includes an additional 12 Wilson writings: essays, interviews and a short story, all expounding upon the themes in Natural Law.
It is the school's fault for reinforcing the stigma around sex, and failing to provide proper sex education.
Peter's Square and the world's press assembled for a news conference in the Vatican, is in the throes of paranoia, believing that the appearance of the children is sponsored by manufacturers of condoms in a plot to embarrass the Church.
The trilogy is a satirical, postmodern, science fiction-influenced adventure story; a drug-, sex- and magic-laden trek through a number of conspiracy theories, both historical and imaginary, which hinge on the authors' version of the Illuminati.
Publication history Jaxon's God Nose strip first appeared in the Florida college fanzine Charlatan, where it was published from 1963 to at least 1966.
Almodóvar explains: "I came up with the story of a girl who drives both men and women wild, a girl who sings, drinks, takes drugs, occasionally goes through periods of abstinence and has the extraordinary experiences one would never have, were one to live a hundred years ...
The Church appealed unsuccessfully to the Federal Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights.
See also Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster Parody religion Wedge strategy Occasionalism References External links intelligentattraction.com
As a result, the superiors often operate from a distorted view of the situation, sometimes leading to poor results.
Kleps testified that the absurdist elements of the Church were intended to show that all religions are invented and silly.
During the 2016 United States presidential election, the meme was connected to Donald Trump's campaign.
Other Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence The Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, an international group of mostly gay men who frequently mock Catholicism and promote safe sex and AIDS awareness, hold anniversary parties and parades on Easter Sunday.
It was the last album to feature all six original members, as guitarist Kendall Jones left the band a few months after the album's release, and keyboardist/trombonist Chris Dowd would leave the next year.
Joshua Norton left Cape Town in late 1845 and arrived in Boston via the ship Sunbeam from Liverpool on March 12, 1846.
"Bob" Dobbs, High Epopt of the Church of the SubGenius, Here Inscribed for the Salvation of Future Generations and in the Hope that Slack May Someday Reign on This Earth (ISBN 0-671-63810-6) is seen as the "Bible" of the Church of the SubGenius.
Sloane (directed by Peter Moffatt) was broadcast on 15 July 1968, and Games (directed by Ormerod) on 26 August 1968, both post-dating Orton's death.
Pray TV (also known as KGOD) is a 1980 American comedy film spoofing televangelism, directed and co-written by Rick Friedberg.
Kyle Jarrow and Alex Timbers were given "Special Citations" from The Village Voice for developing the piece.
PFJ leader Reg tasks Brian to paint slogans overnight on Roman governor Pontius Pilate's palace, but a Roman officer catches him in the act.
A production was staged at the Lyric Theatre in 1984 during the run of which the actor Leonard Rossiter died whilst waiting to go on stage.
His "Rants" are a regular feature at the Starwood Festival and WinterStar Symposium, both produced by the Association for Consciousness Exploration (ACE).
Although not as openly greedy and vulgar as his children, Eli often prioritizes his own wealth and status ahead of spirituality.
However, the author also developed the logics of sex magic underlying the seemingly gruesome sexual scenes.
When the court demands written proof that the earthquake was an 'Act of God,' Krishna steers Kanji toward holy books such as the Bhagavad Gita, the Quran, and the Bible.
It also featured musical guests Lola Amour and Dilaw, who came to sing parody songs written and sung by Michael V.
The book is divided into sections—"Weird Science," "UFO Contactees," "Drug Stuff," and others, and each section contains a variety of mini-articles describing organizations.
Trilogy is a series of three novels written by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson purportedly between 1969 and 1971, and first published in 1975.
Events and protests The concept of Dinkoism has spread through social media but the movement has also organised protest events.
The space captain of their ship has the physical appearance of a chimpanzee and speaks with a voice which imitates John Wayne.
So, because everyone wanted to direct their own wives, Alatriste wanted to direct his own part with his wife, with me.
Plot A tragic love story of Bhouri, a 23-year-old who is married to a 45-year-old, the film highlights the exploitation of women in male dominated society.
Norris claimed that if people draw pictures of Muhammad, Islamist terrorists would not be able to murder them all, and threats to do so would become unrealistic.
He also gave me many ideas: In fact, if you do not like some part of this book, you may attribute it to him." Contents This work follows the typical format of a devotional of a Catholic saint, using it as a framework to satirize such works.
As such, she is more closely related to the Greek concept of homonoia (likemindedness), which was also represented by a goddess.
However, Pinal recalled: It is not true that Simon of the Desert was a medium-length film because of Gustavo Alatriste's economic troubles.
References External links SubGenius Art Mines – archive of images from alt.binaries.slack (contains adult images)
As the 2011 census form did not list religions, these had to be filled out; the total number of Jedi is not artificially boosted by those who were not aware of the phenomenon before filling out the census form.
The Last Hangover is a Brazilian comedy streaming television special produced by the comedy troupe Porta dos Fundos.
The Science Show arranged for Geoff Sirmai and David Fisher of the Australian musical comedy team "Comic Roasts" to write the "Steve Song", a parody of the Monty Python song about Spam, for Project Steve.
In November 2005, Henderson received an advance from Villard to write The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
The meme took off among 4chan users, who adapted Pepe's face and catchphrase to fit different scenarios and emotions, such as melancholy, anger, and surprise.
Yoism adopted the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike copyleft license for sharing original works in May 2015.
Unlike most Bible translation efforts, the LOLCat Bible Translation Project did not depend on one translator or a group of prominent ones, but on crowdsourced translation.
See also Christwire Westboro Baptist Church List of satirical magazines List of satirical news websites List of satirical television news programs Parody religion References External links Landover Baptist Church
Special features on the DVD include a commentary with Bill Maher and director Larry Charles, deleted scenes, and extended Bill Maher monologues from around the world that were either edited down or not included in the film at all.
Plot summary The story takes place in a fictional European country on the eve of the religious festival of Saint Jorgen, the highlight of which is the selection of his "bride" who receives a significant monetary prize.
Dinkoism (), the Dinkoist religion, or Dinkamatham is a parody religion and social movement that emerged and evolved on social networks organized by independent welfare groups in the Indian state of Kerala.
Dick, and the potential pitfalls of blindly accepting 'expert' opinion; all loosely connected by the underlying theme of the perspectival and relative construction of reality.
The new format is a big success but attracts an incompatible mix of fringe ministries and broadcasters wanting time on the station.
It covers familiar Wilson territory such as the writings of James Joyce, Carl Jung, linguistics, and coincidence.
The news of the arrest created a worldwide interest in the case with the Twitter hashtag #FreeGeronPastitsios becoming a global trending topic and a relevant petition by the Humanist Union of Greece has received over 10,000 signatures so far on Change.org.
Background As of 2020, both Emacs and vi can lay claim to being among the longest-lived application programs of all time, as well as being the two most commonly used text editors on Linux and Unix.
Proper etiquette on the newsgroup dictates that credit be given where it is due, and acknowledgment of the ownership of "Bob's" image by the Church is accepted by the regular newsgroup participants.
Shortly after its creation, via forged Usenet control messages in 1995, the newsgroup was targeted by warez traders, who tried to use it for the distribution of pirated commercial software.
The Principia describes the Discordian Society and its Goddess Eris, as well as the basics of the POEE denomination of Discordianism.
It is a revision of Wilson's earlier The Book of the Breast, first published by Playboy Press in 1974, which contained many images not present in the current version.
They maintain that their followers, but not the pinks, are capable of developing an imagination; the Church teaches that Dobbs has empowered its members to see through these illusions.
According to Radio France Internationale, and Newsweek, pages were blocked on Wikipedia by the Pakistan agency due to what the government described as "growing sacrilegious contents".
A founder of the Sisters considered "Play Fair!" to be "one of the Order's greatest achievements in community education and support".
High-ranking priests as well as believers proposed that the Elder should be recognised as a Saint by the Orthodox Church (which was later realized).
Nationally On a national scale, the Black Death had recently arrived in England, probably through Weymouth, Dorset.
It also has a brief appearance by Cecilia Roth as Mercedes, a former redeemer and lover of the Mother Superior.
With few opportunities for spiritual ministry, the nuns have begun to indulge in their own idiosyncratic pursuits in order to pass the time.
The Boo Hoo Bible has been described as "requiring its reader to transcend the personal in an act that simultaneously simulates and dissimulates, establishing and overcoming the ironic....
A game among UNIX users, either to test the depth of an Emacs user's understanding of the editor or to poke fun at the complexity of Emacs, involved predicting what would happen if a user held down a modifier key (such as Ctrl or Alt) and typed their own name.
In the February 27, 1966, episode of the western television series Bonanza, titled "The Emperor Norton," Sam Jaffe played the title role.
Plot The film features followers and members of the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, called 'Pastafari', as they practice and campaign politically, legally and socially to obtain the same privileges and legal exemptions granted to religions.
They contacted Leslie, who thought the script was hilarious." During the film's production, producer Steve Wizan denied that the film was an outright parody of The Exorcist, stating: "It’s not an Exorcist spoof.
The other showed pieces of the plane falling on an Islamic State (ISIS) fighter with the caption: "Russia's air force intensifies its bombing".
As of March 27, 2008, approximately 61% of the text had been adapted, and Grondin stated that he hoped the entire New Testament would be complete by the end of 2008.
In the garden adjacent to the old mansion, there is a fig tree, which, according to legend, has miraculous properties.
ICBC claimed their October 2014 definitive refusal was based on the fact that it would only 'accommodate customers with head coverings where their faith prohibits them from removing it', and that 'Mr.
("Using a free version of vi is not a sin but a penance.") The Church of Emacs has its own newsgroup, alt.religion.emacs, that has posts purporting to support this belief system.
Once there, scenes are shown depicting Rome during the Fascist regime in the 1930s as well as in the 1970s.
Police arrested and charged eight of the Pastafarians with attempting to hold an unsanctioned rally.
Arthur and his knights arrive at a castle occupied by French soldiers, who claim to have the Grail and taunt the Britons, driving them back with a barrage of barnyard animals.
Interpretation The preacher The print depicts a preacher – his open mouth and scale of vociferation an allusion to George Whitefield's powerful voice – speaking to a church congregation from the top of a high pulpit.
We wanted to crystallize some of our favorite themes from the Principia, those of radical free will and self-emancipation." The goal was to encourage "critical thinking and self awareness" in the reader.
Wraith (loosely based on Jerry Falwell), demands that the National Guard be called in, leading to a siege and an unexpected outcome to the entire situation.
The IPU is a rhetorical illustration used by agnostics, atheists, and other religious skeptics as a contemporary version of Russell's teapot, sometimes mentioned in conjunction with the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
A common challenge against atheism is the idea that atheism is itself a form of "faith", a belief without proof.
Parody religions may also use their social organization to create a sense of community and belonging among their followers, or as a way to comment on societal issues or political ideologies.
Argument to Prove that the Abolishing of Christianity in England May, as Things Now Stand Today, be Attended with Some Inconveniences, and Perhaps not public domain audiobook at LibriVox
Colonel Hudibras' humiliations arrive sometimes by the skills and courage of women, and the epic ends with a witty and detailed declaration by the latest female to get the better of him that women are intellectually superior to men.
The title references the word "bali" which means "break" (in Filipino), which "BaliSong" means a break between songs during the gags.
External links Collection of medieval drinkers and gamblers masses Discussion of medieval humor, including Latin drinkers mass and translation in appendix
In the second of these attacks, 12 people were killed, including publishing director Charb and several other prominent cartoonists.
As explained on the back cover the title is a deliberate misspelling suggesting the "mad dervish whirl of coincidence and synchronicity" to be found within.
Our song is very timely!" Music video The song's music video was directed by David Hogan and produced by Daniel Stewart for Limelight Productions.
This idiom is thought to originate in American English, although similar or even identical idioms occur in many other languages.
Cast Michael Denison - Pringle Vivien Merchant - Tessa Ian McShane - Caulfield Bill Fraser - McCorquodale Production history Orton wrote Funeral Games in several drafts between July and November 1966, a period of intense productivity for him.
Despite appearances, the Devil is needy and co-dependent, often reduced to tears when God ignores or forgets about him, to the point that he planned to go to war with Heaven when God forgot their golf outing.
Sacred Ikon Around 2002, the Church adopted a new symbol called the "Sacred Ikon" or "Dobbs Ikon", which is a stylized cross consisting of three bars and a pipe, placed in a pattern that matches the eyes, nose, mouth, and pipe of "Bob"'s image.
It features an ensemble cast including José Zúñiga, George Lopez, Miguel Sandoval, Olivia Hussey, Elpidia Carrillo, Alexis Cruz, Jude Herrera, Marcelo Tubert, and Lupe Ontiveros.
In 2012, Nevzorov supported Vladimir Putin during his presidential campaign, and was his authorised representative.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 22 out of 100, based on 4 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.
Cultural studies scholar Solomon Davidoff states that the Church develops a "satiric commentary" on religion, morality, and conspiracies.
Pope dispatches the duo, but they were not beaten and summon all of Earth's corpses to form a giant, writhing zombie monster.
The book's essays and stories are illustrated with line drawings, message banners, cartoons, office memos and interviews.
The story was based on several existing accounts that were already circulating online and involved the miraculous recovery of a teenager who supposedly woke from a coma after his mother placed a talisman with dirt from Elder Paisios’ grave under his pillow.
On it, visitors track meetings of pirate-clad Pastafarians, sell trinkets and bumper stickers, and sample photographs that show "visions" of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
"Bob" Dobbs, the founder of the Church of the SubGenius, is commonly seen on alt.binaries.slack, where he appears regularly in images by many artists.
The establishment of new religions through open-source methods is closely related to chaos magic, which emphasizes the pragmatic use of belief systems and the creation of new and unorthodox methods, the difference being that any knowledge gained through such innovation is shared openly.
One episode where God began acting human had him delight in being unsupervised only to quickly tire of it being “pointless” without God.
Their sermons and songs routinely draw the attention of police and security forces assigned to those spaces, leading to arrests and significant media coverage.
A different attribution has been made by Lapôtre, who claimed the work to be a satire directed toward Julian the Apostate by the poet Bachiarius.
Publication history "The Marquis de Fumerol" was first published in the newspaper Gil Blas on January 17, 1887.
He requested that "Pastafarianism" be taught alongside intelligent design and "logical conjecture based on overwhelming observable evidence".
The 2021 United Kingdom census recorded a dramatic decline in the number of Jedi Knights with fewer than 1,600 followers in England and Wales.
It was first released as a 9-track vinyl album through Zappa's label Barking Pumpkin Records in October 1988, and subsequently as a 17-track CD through Rykodisc in 1989.
In June 2022, Nevzorov and his wife Lidia submitted an application to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for Ukrainian citizenship.
Background Alex Timbers developed the concept and directed the play, while Kyle Jarrow wrote the accompanying book, music, and lyrics.
His text is opened at a page which reads "I speak as a fool", and he is wearing a Harlequin jacket under his clerical gown.
Those unacquainted with Wilson's work would do well to pick up a copy." Reviews Review by Theodore Sturgeon (1981) in Rod Serling's The Twilight Zone Magazine, September 1981 Review by Tom Easton (1981) in Analog Science Fiction/Science Fact, December 7, 1981 == References ==
In the 2017 retrial, however, the case was dismissed, as it was determined that the statute of limitations had expired, following the introduction of Greek Law No.
The picture had a budget of one million dollars, and the soundtrack was created by Mike Bloomfield and Barry Goldberg.
The next day, to reduce his chances of being appointed, Edmund dresses up ridiculously, but to his horror, King Richard announces that he will be the new archbishop.
Briefly these were: belief in a messianic prophecy, use of psychedelic drugs as sacrament, a perception of reality as multi-layered and semi-subjective, and adherence to the principles of at least one of the world's major religions.
Like Terrytoons created Mighty Mouse and several other superhero characters, Dinkan borrowed a few traits from the iconic DC Comics character Superman.
In art and numismatics In Roman art, Concordia was depicted sitting, wearing a long cloak and holding onto a patera (sacrificial bowl), a cornucopia (symbol of prosperity), or a caduceus (symbol of peace).
They initially receive sarcastic praise from her, until the interview degrades into a tirade against their apparent lack of piety and their secular lifestyles, culminating with her judgmental admonishments and condemnation.
The film critic of the Venetian Il Gazzetino described the film as scandalous, but his counterpart in Corriere Della Sera saw Almodóvar as a true heir of the acclaimed Italian film director Pier Paolo Pasolini and applauded his attack on Christianity.
The Book of the SubGenius, which discusses Slack at length, was published by Simon & Schuster and sold 30,000 copies in its first five years in print.
An intentionally facetious graph accompanying the letter (with numbers humorously disordered on the x-axis) shows that as the number of pirates decreased, global temperatures increased.
Porter and the robbers develop a rapport that resembles shop talk among thieves as they discuss the best ways of investing stolen money.
Eager to reach level eight herself, Marcie asks for a more extreme game in order to level up faster.
The email asserted that any religion passing a minimum threshold (given variously as 8,000 or 10,000) would be entitled to some form of official recognition.
It ridicules secular and religious credulity, and lampoons the exaggerated religious "enthusiasm" (excessive emotion, not keenness) of the Methodist movement.
The play-within-a-play involves Diabetes playing a slave who is forced to courier a message to the king.
The song, which charts the growth of the Brian character to manhood, was composed by Andre Jacquemin and Dave Howman with lyrics by Michael Palin.
Some of their discussion centered on a powerful conspiracy, to which the Church attributes command of the world.
Oldhead, who has glasses and a beard, is grumpy and blasé, and is usually happy to simply sit and watch Marwin and Shorthead exerting violence against each other.
The Matrixism website singles out April 19 as a holiday – otherwise known as Bicycle Day – marks the anniversary of Albert Hofmann's 1943 experiment with LSD.
The 27-year-old page creator would later state that he did this to expose the gullibility of the faithful, and also to show the poor fact-checking done among the religious and conservative blogosphere.
December 2015 The United Church of Bacon posted a holiday billboard in December 2015 which stated "Merry Christmas and Happy Hanukkah from 13,000+ Atheists & Skeptics at United Church of Bacon".
Curtis was generally critical of the first series, stating that while comedy writers hone their craft first by writing sketches and then progress to writing situation comedy, the most successful parts of The Black Adder were in essence just sketches.
The hoax comprises part of a cycle of "Microsoft jokes" in which the Microsoft Corporation is portrayed as a wealthy but evil monopoly built on bloated or unreliable desktop software, planned obsolescence of products, corporate takeovers of once-innovative rivals, and litigiousness.
The following day, the robots have now evolved into incorporeal energy beings of transcendent higher consciousness that are no longer concerned with corporeal beings including Farnsworth, and send the crew home.
Robinson felt that, because he, Rowan Atkinson and Tim McInnerny had just begun to work together, this scene was the first time that the three of them truly "gelled" as an ensemble of performers.
The name gave several derivatives in Ancient Greek, including ἐρίζω erízō "to fight" and ἔρισμα érisma "object of a quarrel".
Furthermore, IF asserts that theories explaining gravity are not internally consistent nor mathematically reconcilable with quantum mechanics, making gravity a "theory in crisis".
Eric André as Lyle Lissons (season 2), a prominent Texas televangelist who wants to work with Jesse Jessica Lowe as Lindy Lissons (season 2), Lyle's wife and business partner Crystal Coney as Angie Steve Zahn as Peter Montgomery (season 3), a militia leader, and Eli's estranged brother-in-law.
Harry accompanies Edmund to Canterbury, where he is ordained as Archbishop of Canterbury and Primate of All England.
In the United States, David Headley and Tahawwur Hussain Rana were convicted of planning terrorism against Jyllands-Posten and were sentenced in 2013.
(Government documents only changed to New Style dates from 1 January 1753; see Old Style and New Style dates.) However, for printers and booksellers, and the general public, in Butler's day the year started, and the number changed, on 1 January.
Listed as a member of the Landover Baptist Church, Bowers operates several Christian ministries with names like "Bringing Integrity To Christian Homemakers" (B.I.T.C.H.) and "Baptists Are Saving Homosexuals" (B.A.S.H.).
The Jolly Company eventually formed a group known as The All-Joking, All-Drunken Synod of Fools and Jesters, which had a "Prince-Pope", a college of cardinals, bishops, archimandrites, priests and deacons.
Shortly after Jerome loses his factory job, his sister in-law Lenore (Dominique Davalos) comes to Rev.
The release was later expanded to 6000 screens worldwide, which included 5200 screens in India and 844 screens overseas.
The panel garnered an audience of one hundred of the more than 9,000 conference attendees, and conference organizers received critical e-mails from Christians offended by it.
The Schrödinger's Cat trilogy is similar in length, writing style, plot devices and the use of parallel universes for the novel's settings.
Behind him are the soldiers who died in his military campaigns, whom he promised would go to heaven regardless of their deeds.
His possessions included his collection of walking sticks, his rather battered sabre, a variety of headgear, including a stovepipe, a derby, a red-laced Army cap, and another cap suited to a martial band-master.
Elder Pastitsios (Greek: Γέρων/Γέροντας Παστίτσιος, romanized: Géron/Gérontas Pastítsios) is a satirical figure of a fictitious monk who first appeared in a Facebook page.
In addition to the generic advice of cultivating the natural love of chaos and playing with her, the Principia Discordia provides "The Turkey Curse Revealed by the Apostle Dr.
"Harder than Your Husband" is a country rock song, while Atkins classifies "Doreen" as "power doo-wop".
In 1984 or 1985, programmer Don Hopkins sent Richard Stallman a letter labeled "Copyleft—all rights reversed".
Plot God Nose portrays God as an old man with a white beard and a crown, sitting on a golden throne in Heaven.
However, computer scientist and lawyer Arnoud Engelfriet writes that "[t]he phrase ['All rights reversed'] by itself is not enough; a license must explicitly state the rights that are granted".
In contemporary terminology, this process is sometimes described as "hastening the eschaton" or "hastening the apocalypse".
The printing of this book also caused problems, due to rarely used laws in the United Kingdom against blasphemy, dictating what can and cannot be written about religion.
Several imperial coins depicted the goddess Concordia, such as those issued by Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus.
The fish was originally adopted by early Christians as a secret symbol, but the many variations known today first appeared in the 1980s.
X-Day is a traditional part of the Church of the SubGenius, a religion formed as a parody of cults and extreme religious groups, and their pamphlets and claims.
Also found were fake telegrams, including one purporting to be from Tsar Alexander II of Russia congratulating Norton on his forthcoming marriage to Queen Victoria and another from the President of France predicting that such a union would be disastrous to world peace.
The poster included a claim of sponsorship by an organization named "Citizens Against Citizens Against Humor or CACAH (pronounced ca-ca)", which Norris later said was purely fictional.
The Flying Spaghetti Monster became a symbol for the case against intelligent design in public education.
Along with crude drawings and altered stock photography, Henderson employs irony to present perceived flaws with evolution and discusses history and lifestyle from a Pastafarian perspective.
The comedy is modelled after Bertolt Brecht's epic theatre, in that the characters frequently point out the artificiality of the play and switch roles.
Much has been written about his person and his prophecies concerning the End times, the upbringing of children, couples' relationships, even the diet Paisios supposedly followed.
In what is now the standard edition (Oxford University: Clarendon Press, 1967), the editor, John Wilders, assessed all the early editions and chose as his copy text the 1674 edition of Parts One and Two and the 1678 edition of Part Three, these making up, as they do, Butler's approved final text.
The name ApologetiX is a play on apologetics, the defense of a religious doctrine, in particular, Christian apologetics.
In 1862, the French Empire invaded Mexico after the latter was unable to pay war reparations following the disastrous Reform War.
She is naturally talented at nearly everything that she sets out to do, and accepts any challenge that catches her interest without hesitation, regardless of difficulty or time constraint.
One writer has suggested that there is an element of paradox in the concept of respect for a sacred cow, as illustrated in a comment about the novelist V.
It is difficult to estimate the number of Discordians because they are not required to hold Discordianism as their only belief system.
The original primary religious text of the church was The Boo Hoo Bible: The Neo-American Church Catechism and Handbook (1967), written by Kleps, a mixed-media work integrating comics, news clippings, senate testimonies, and political-religious diatribes.
Johnson and the election of 1968, leading up to the election of Richard Nixon, delivered in the style of Biblical verse.
The spirit promises to give Joseph a breast plate and "an assistant, even Oliver, the pedagogue", a reference to Book of Mormon scribe Oliver Cowdery.
The order is facing serious financial hardships as their prime financial supporter, the vain and greedy Marchioness (La Marquesa), has decided to discontinue the convent's annuity under the pretense of economizing.
This game humor originated with users of the older TECO editor, which was the implementation basis, via macros, of the original Emacs.
The page created a hoax about a posthumous miracle by Elder Paisios which was submitted to various Orthodox, conservative and far-right blogs in July.
She murdered somebody and as the Mother Superior lied under oath to save her from jail, she is very devoted to her.
Religious scholar Thomas Alberts of the University of London views the Church as attempting to "subvert the idea of authenticity in religion" by mirroring other religions to create a sense of both similarity and alterity.
The Arabs' beliefs were modified in contact with the Jewish-Christian monotheism they encountered in the conquered land.
Writing in an editorial for The Washington Times, Jason Greaves urged individuals to participate in the protest event on May 20.
Nutzinger (Coll.): Christliche, jüdische und islamische Wirtschaftsethik – Über religiöse Grundlagen wirtschaftlichen Verhaltens in der säkularen Gesellschaft, Marburg 2003, S.
According to Amnesty International, Saber's home, where his mother and sister also live, continues to be the scene of angry protests.
See also Islamophobia Criticism of Islam Islamic terrorism References External links Islam: What the West Needs to Know at IMDb
Today, the situation is different; the topic has been well studied by various researchers, and the audience I meet during my lectures now expects less confrontational approaches.
41) (1995), Washington Institute for Near East Policy, ISBN 0-944029-64-7 Sandstorm (1993), Rowman & Littlefield, paperback (1993) ISBN 0-8191-8894-8 Damascus Courts the West: Syrian Politics, 1989–1991 (Policy Papers, No.
Muir is more specific about the date, identifying the Caliph, who remains unnamed in the epistles, as Al-Ma'mun, who reigned from 813 to 833.
The lawsuit in part accused the CVS of deceiving consumers through its misrepresentation of homeopathy's safety and effectiveness, wasting customers' money and putting their health at risk.
Pellerin of Princeton, New Jersey based Political Asylum Research and Documentation Service, successfully convinced Summers to abandon his staunch opposition to lifting the U.S.
He said that Al-Arian was an Islamic extremist, and headed the Palestine Islamic Jihad (PIJ) in the U.S.
Alms for Jihad: Charity and Terrorism in the Islamic World is a 2006 book co-written by American authors J.
The conquest marks the westernmost expansion of both the Umayyad Caliphate and Muslim rule into Europe.
Background and contents Fernández-Morera is a Cuban-born associate professor at Northwestern University in the United States, specialising in the literature of Miguel Cervantes.
It argues that the French nation state has suffered a gradual decline since the 1970s, which Zemmour mainly attributes to the rise of immigration, feminism and egalitarianism, as well as the erosion of traditional values.
Publications As former CEO of The Democracy Project, Myers is editor of the conservative guide, Choosing the Right College, that included an introduction by former Secretary of Education William Bennett, and past editor of the publication, ISI Study Guides to the Liberal Arts.
In the text of the novel there are references to the date of the main events of the novel: And the Old King, together with the Old Duke, made four paladins into bishops.
Periyar praised Thiruvalluvar for his description of God as a formless entity with only positive attributes.
A Facebook spokesperson replied that the account was terminated because the website did not believe he was using his real name, a breach of Facebook's "real name culture".
Fired by the Canadian Government for Criticizing Islam: Multicultural Canada: A Weak Link In the Battle Against Islamization.
He contends that, far from being an aberration, the torture of heretics was a logical expression of Christian doctrine – one which, he says, was clearly justified by men such as Saint Augustine.
Some of Puin's initial remarks on his findings are found in his essay titled the "Observations on Early Qur'an Manuscripts in Sana'a", which has been republished in the book What the Koran Really Says (2002), written by the Ex-Muslim author and activist Ibn Warraq.
Islam and the Future of Tolerance: A Dialogue is a 2015 book collaboration between American author Sam Harris and British activist Maajid Nawaz.
While hadith studies was preoccupied with the question of authenticity during the twentieth century, the scope of the field today has broadened to address questions such as what role hadith played in the intellectual and social histories of Muslim societies.
Mixed Barnaby Rogerson, writing for The Independent, noted the work to be extraordinarily rich, detailed and enchanting; his writing was praised in particular.
The book has been banned in Bangladesh because "its contents might hurt the existing social system and religious sentiments of the people." The book is very frank about her father and mother.
See also Human rights in Islamic Republic of Iran Women in Muslim societies Statue of a Liberated Woman Further reading Darabi, Parvin; Thomson, Romin P (1999).
Asia Bibi would later disown the memoir, citing that she disagreed with the book's portrayal of her story and Pakistani law.
Almost all of them now live in the West, many under assumed names as they have had death threats made against them by Islamic groups and individuals.
Al-Azhar expressed concerns over the broadcasting of Alhayat TV, saying that the Coptic channel was offensive to Muslims and Islam.
Even though João Doria, the then-governor of São Paulo, is his family's friend, Kogos began to declare himself a fierce opponent of Doria and the social isolation measures he had decreed, promoting a campaign of opposition.
History The channel was founded in Cyprus in 2003 by Al Hayat Ministries, an evangelical organization.
The book also criticizes "Marxist historians", and one of the appendices of the second volume includes a questionnaire for "Marxist professors", one of whom was an Indian historian Romila Thapar.
The prosecution called for a report to assess Yee's suitability for reformative training, arguing that a jail term or a fine would have no rehabilitative effect.
References Further reading "Playboy's Indonesia edition enrages - and disappoints", The Times online edition, 7 April 2006.
Ibn Kammunah's Treatise on the Differences between the Rabbanites and the Karaites Pourjavady, Reza.
The book was frequently discussed, translated and became a bestseller in Germany (published together with The Caged Virgin in 2005 under the title Ich klage an.
Spencer co-founded the anti-Muslim group Stop Islamization of America (also known as the American Freedom Defense Initiative) with Pamela Geller in 2010.
Kramer has written for the group Middle East Forum, and has argued that Islam and fundamentalism are innately linked.
Administration Myers works at the Middle East Forum where he is director of both Campus Watch and Academic Affairs in Philadelphia.
She has later been an associate editor at FrontPage Magazine as well as a daily writer for Jihad Watch, both publications of the David Horowitz Freedom Center.
And although there are included in this scripture many more absurdities worthy of laughter, he insists that this was brought down to him by God.
ISBN 9780853037347 Islamic Radicalism and Political Violence: The Templars of Islam and Sheikh Ra’id Salah, Vallentine Mitchell, London, 2008.
He challenges: which ethical statement made or which action performed by a believer could not have been made or performed by a non-believer?
Michel Gurfinkiel (1 August 1948, Paris) is a French conservative journalist and public intellectual.
The Pope had the medals sent, as well as a reply in which he thanked him for his "very beautiful tragedy of Mahomet" and discussed the grammar of his couplet.
References Further reading Introduction to The Decline of Eastern Christianity Under Islam Islam Review: Eastern Christians Torn Asunder
It was alleged that Nasrin's statement in this book on Prophet Mohammad hurts the sentiments of the Muslim community.
Lorenz Langer, a professor of law at University of Zurich, noted her to be among those who made a living by "churning out alarmist accounts of the threat that Islam poses to the Occident".
It was originally published in the United Kingdom by Atlantic Books as God Is Not Great: The Case Against Religion and in the United States by Twelve as God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything, but in 2017 Atlantic Books republished it with no subtitle.
Review of Suliman Bashear, Studies in early Islamic tradition (Jerusalem: Max Schloessinger Memorial Foundation, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 2004).
The documentary has won numerous awards for journalism, including the George Polk Award for best television documentary.
It is part of a worrying pattern targeting families of human rights defenders in exile," adding: "The harassment of families, to muzzle human rights defenders in exile from Bangladesh, is utterly reprehensible.
Robinson called The Decline of Eastern Christianity a pseudo-history that was "a work of polemic" whose errors were too numerous to list in his review.
We will declare you a blockhead and brand you as a fool, and destroy your reputation.' If he was a merchant he said, 'we will boycott your goods and reduce you to beggary.' If he was a person of no social importance, he beat him and incited people against him.
The controversy surrounding Playboy in Indonesia punctuated the issue of pornography legislation opposed by prominent Indonesian feminists, including Kamala Chandrakirana, chairwoman of the National Commission on Violence Against Women, who spoke openly in support of Playboy Indonesia.
She is of mixed-race background, with a quarter each of Indian, Scottish, Chinese and black ancestry.
Harris also critiques the role of the Christian right in the United States, in influencing such areas as drug policies, embryonic stem cell research, and AIDS prevention in the developing world.
Initially, Campus Watch published the profile of eight university professors and teachers, who, it said, were "hostile" to America and "preaching dangerous rhetoric to students".
It was fear-mongering and divisive." The editor John Robinson wrote: "As a journalist, my default position is to provide people with more knowledge, however troubling, rather than less.
In a March 2013 Ethnic and Racial Studies journal article, Nasar Meer wrote that the book was, "Remarkably similar to anxieties over western decline in the late 19th century." The book has been considered to popularize the Eurabia theory of Bat Ye'or, whose work has been expressly cited by Steyn.
Using the above strategy, the plebiscite produced a unanimous decision for integration with Indonesia, which was duly noted by United Nations General Assembly in November 1969.
ISBN 978-1-950330-46-1 (large 8x11.5 trade paper 402 pages) Criticism Numerous tracts were published criticising his work.
"West Midlands Police has taken account of this advice and explored options available to them and has now referred the matter to the broadcasting regulators Ofcom as a formal complaint.
His 2010 book The Third Choice: Islam, Dhimmitude and Freedom has a foreword by Bat Ye'or, and Durie has been described as a proponent of Ye'or's counter-jihadist worldview.
It is the third book by Carlin, the previous ones being Napalm and Silly Putty (2001) and Brain Droppings (1997).
When Muhammad says a thing, he never tells a lie." Umayyah went to his wife and said to her, "Do you know what my brother from Yathrib (i.e.
One of the most influential modernist critiques comes from Mahmoud Abu Rayya, who argued that the basis of Islam rests on the Quran, reason, and mutawatir (as opposed to merely sahih) hadith.
Clair Tisdall, describing it as a "shoddy piece of missionary propaganda" and the "worst" among the essays of the book.
Submission On September 17, 2006, in response to the Pope Benedict XVI Islam controversy, Imad Hamto, a Palestinian religious leader, said: "We want to use the words of the Prophet Muhammad and tell the pope: ‘Aslim Taslam'.
Debbie Schlussel (born 1969), Orthodox Jew of Polish pedigree, is an American-born attorney, film critic, conservative political commentator, and a blogger.
Specifically Wansbrough thinks it must have been completed by Ibn Hisham around the time he composed his Sīra of Muhammad because of the "preponderance of Quran-based (historicised) narratives therein".
His tombstone was engraved in accordance with his wishes: "I saw from the other side - Yehuda Nevo"; probably a reference to the changing of his surname to Nebo/Nevo, which is known as Moses' burial place, and to Rachel Bluwstein's poem "From the other side".
Napoleon, during his captivity on Saint Helena, criticised Voltaire's Mahomet, and said Voltaire had made him merely an impostor and a tyrant, without representing him as a "great man": Mahomet was the subject of deep criticism.
References External links Home page http://web.uvic.ca/~arippin/rippincv.pdf Archived 2019-02-14 at the Wayback Machine
The latter two groups are trying to recruit the Mecca Muslims to their cause; Hirsi Ali herself takes the side of the Modifying Muslims.
This major split decimated Direction – Social Democracy's support, forcing Fico to reorient the party's ideological focus towards a more nationalist, populist, and conservative.
He also makes the assertion that non-Muslims living in Muslim countries suffer legalised oppression that stems from teachings in the Qur'an.
In March 2021, EXMNA announced that it had implemented new content standards on WikiIslam, archived and deleted articles that did not meet those standards, and initiated re-writes of other articles.
Content In the book, Fallaci likens Islam to a "mountain which in one thousand and four hundred years has not moved, has not risen from the abyss of its blindness, has not opened its doors to the conquests of civilization, has never wanted to know about freedom and democracy and progress.
Scholarship The work draws from the revisionist school of Islamic studies and the scholarship of Patricia Crone (with further refinements produced by John Wansbrough, Fred Donner, Andrew Rippin, Christoph Luxenberg et al) in applying rigorous textual analysis to the Hadithic corpus.
All our superstitions and meaningless and absurd rituals and ceremonies are the result of following the tenets of Hinduism.
Peretz attracted further criticism from within the government and Israeli society in July 2019, when he endorsed gay conversion therapy, and claimed to have personally performed such therapy.
The book concludes with the question of whether religion, despite its alleged problems, fills a "much needed gap", giving consolation and inspiration to people who need it.
Instead, Islam came into being on the basis of a conflict among various types of monotheists which considered each other to fail in living a perfect monotheism, and considering each other to practice idolatry.
According to The Washington Post, the organization "touted as its 'first accomplishment' its 2008 campaign to shut down a Minnesota Islamic school." The Southern Poverty Law Center described ACT!
Naipaul also documents the ongoing Islamization of native cultures: central to the stories of Indonesia and Malaysia is the presence of Islamic radicals trying to purge what remained of the native cultures, such as their rituals, faith in spirit, and taboos.
13), and critiques Eastern religions for encouraging mental submission and failing to offer consistent spiritual insight (ch.
The Philosophical Dictionary was censored in many countries, including Switzerland (Geneva) and France.
Said describes the book as the third and last in a series of books (the first two were Orientalism and The Question of Palestine) in which he analyzes the relations between the Islamic world, Arabs and East and West, France, Great Britain and the United States.
In 1408, he became the rabbinic leader of Algerian Jewry, earning widespread recognition for his legal rulings in Spain, North Africa, France, and Italy.
He was a uniquely good and decent man, voice of reason, intellectual honesty, acclaimed scholar of Islam, citizen of the world, one who found evil and tried to right it, knew of justice and tried to attain it, had a conscience and felt morally compelled to follow it.
At its centre is the episode of the so-called satanic verses, in which the prophet first proclaims a revelation requiring the adoption of three of the old polytheistic deities, but later renounces this as an error induced by the Devil.
Effect on sales Within hours, Alms for Jihad became one of the hundred most popular titles on Amazon.com and eBay in the United States.
He was lecturer in Economic History with reference to the Middle East at SOAS (1966–84) and reader in the History of the Near and Middle East (1984–86).
63–88 Patricia Crone, "Barefoot and Naked: What Did the Bedouin of the Arab Conquests Look Like?", in Muqarnas Vol.
Naipaul takes the view that "The British period--two hundred years in some places, less than a hundred years in others--was a time of Hindu regeneration." Reception Beyond Belief has been criticized notably by Eqbal Ahmad, who regarded its view of Islam as erroneous.
Specifically, he argues that European nations have given up defending themselves and rely on the United States for their defense.
Muawiyah I (traditionally described as the first Umayyad Caliph), was the first historical ruler of the Arab Empire, and arose as a warlord/strongman from the other foederati.
Islam is also a political ideology that preaches violence and applies its agenda by force." "No one can be a true Muslim and a true American simultaneously.
Biography Rippin was Professor of History and Dean of the Faculty of Humanities at the University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.
More than 14 people were killed, after monasteries, shops and houses were burned down across the city.
Contents Kasravi has written his views based on sources from the period when first Alids movement was formed.
These depictions such as those in The Song of Roland represent Muslims worshiping Muhammad (spelt e.g.
Moreover, Muḥammad could only speak Arabic, whereas the Apostles had been given the gift of tongues at Pentecost.
Career His academic interests included history, higher education, culture, politics and foreign policy.
After gaining entrance by pretending to be Muslim, Emerson said that he found tables of pro-terrorism literature from groups such as Hamas and heard speeches calling for death to Americans.
York portrays "whiteness" as being tied to weakness, both physical and spiritual, calling it "Albinism, a curse which was given to Canaan and his descendants, [...] a sign of recessive or weak genes"; in comparison, melanin is called "the same thing that colors this planet Qi, now called Earth".
Sansal has worked as a teacher, consultant, business leader, and senior official in Algeria’s Ministry of Industry.
He gave a succinct description of his job as "the correction of errors in texts." Bellamy's approach makes him a representative of the Revisionist School of Islamic Studies.
We cannot go into the technical details of his methodology, but it allows Luxenberg, to the probable horror of all Muslim males dreaming of sexual bliss in the Muslim hereafter, to conjure away the wide-eyed houris promised to the faithful in Surah XLIV.54; LII.20, LV.72, and LVI.22.
Johannes Juliaan Gijsbert "Hans" Jansen (17 November 1942 – 5 May 2015) was a Dutch politician, scholar of contemporary Islam and author.
I treated them, and I remembered when I was raped." Nasrin has in this and in her other books written about women rights in Bangladesh: "Girls suffer, especially in Muslim countries," she said.
He suggests the possibility of something like a three-state solution in the form of a Palestinian confederation with Jordan.
Description In the book, Spencer discusses issues relating to radical Islam, Jihad, and Islamic terrorism, and claims that these are more serious threats to the non-Muslim world than the media and world leaders accept.
Majid says: "Refusing to name a problem, and failing to recognize it, is never a good way to solve it".
The ruling coalition fast-tracked the amendments through parliament, limiting the time for debate and preventing the draft law from being reviewed by experts and others usually involved in the process.
Trouw journalist Eildert Mulder noted that the ex-Muslims' testimonies had a lot in common with those of ex-Christians.
Covering Islam deals with issues during and after the Iranian hostage crisis, and how the Western media has speculated on the realities of Islamic life.
Conviction She was in 1981 convicted under § 135a for having spread flyers that included strong criticism of Islam, and for opposing the immigration to Norway of guest workers from Islamic countries.
This collects thirteen published articles listed above, as well as the following two unpublished studies: "Ḥanīfiyya and the ḥajj" and "Jesus in an early Muslim shahāda and related issues: A New perspective".
The second chapter, "El Abd, the Slaves", follows a narrative of Islam among black Americans in the 20th century, discussing figures like Noble Drew Ali, Wallace Fard Muhammad, Clarence 13X and Elijah Muhammad.
The appendix contains translations of Islamic and non-Islamic sources from the Middle Ages and Western sources of newer date.
The book claims that these Quran verses embody one of the main themes of the book: "Nor have these passages been culled at random from different chapters of the Quran with a view to making the book sound sinister.
Bendigo mosque protests In 2014, the Q Society provided information and training to a number of groups involved in the Voices of Bendigo and Stop the Mosques Bendigo protests.
Life and career Early life Kuti was born into the Ransome-Kuti family, an upper-middle-class family, on 15 October 1938, in Abeokuta, Colonial Nigeria.
Ahmed Assid (Berber languages: ⴰⵃⵎⴰⴷ ⵄⴰⵚⵉⴷ; born July 14, 1961) is a Moroccan Berber activist, a professor of philosophy, a poet, and a political activist, well known for being an active secularist.
Various Ahmadis scholars like Muhammad Ali, Maulana Sadr-ud-Din, Basharat Ahmad and also the British orientalist Gottlieb Wilhelm Leitner argue that when the Quran's verses are read in context, it clearly appears that the Quran prohibits initial aggression, and allows fighting only in self-defense.
The page was subsequently unblocked, with a Facebook spokesperson saying in an email to the Observer that "the pages were removed in error and restored as soon as we were able to investigate." References External links Official website
As Duran had lost all his property during the massacre at Palma, he was forced against his will to accept a salary from the community, not having other means of subsistence.
At the instigation of his friends at the time, he traveled twice to join the Balkan war in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a Mujahid, but did not participate in the combat.
Paul Gosar, Republican from Arizona, to London to address the rallies; and lobbied Sam Brownback, the State Department's ambassador-at-large for International Religious Freedom, to raise the issue with the UK's ambassador, which he did.
However, the more he learned, the more doubts he developed as the religion appeared to make no sense to him, demanding an incredibly high toll on Muslims' everyday life and punishing all non-Muslims with eternal torture.
As such, he participated in Ma Ba Tha's campaign in favor of laws limiting the civil rights of Muslims, and preventing them to have multiple wives, to marry Buddhist women or to have large families.
In the end, perhaps we ought to use Hagarism more as a 'what-if' exercise than as a research monograph, but it should not be ignored.
Retrieved 27 February 2020.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) External links John E.
as far as 'As many as are the angels in heaven, their intercession shall be of no avail unless after God has permitted it to whom He pleases and accepts' [Q.53:21–26] meaning, how can the intercession of their gods be of any avail with Him?
In Middle East Eye, Georgetown professor Ian Almond called the book "a staggeringly one-sided flow of statistics, interviews and examples, reflecting a clear decision to make the book a rhetorical claim that Europe is doomed to self-destruction".
The book argues that Islam did not originate in Mecca, located in western Saudi Arabia, but in northern Arabia.
It also accuses American leaders of willful complicity in facilitating the infiltration of shariah, alleging that through 'internal policy as well as public statements, U.S.
Voltaire A Philosophical Dictionary 10 Volumes, and single volume, in English from Project Gutenberg Extracts from Dictionnaire philosophique A Philosophical Dictionary from the French of M.
The refugees think that, as they are in the Netherlands, they should not have to deal with such a situation.
Alhayat TV, also known as Life TV (Arabic: قناة الحياة), is an evangelical Christian Arabic-language television channel that airs in countries in North Africa, West Asia, the Middle East, America, Canada, Australia and some of Europe.
He holds a degree in Business Administration from Insper – where he was editor-in-chief of Insper Post, the university's journal – and a supposed postgraduate degree in Economics from Mackenzie University.
The "classical jurists of Islam never remotely considered [jihad] the kind of unprovoked, unannounced mass slaughter of uninvolved civil populations".
See also Fraser Anning One Nation Katter's Australian Party Australian nationalism List of political parties in Australia Notes == References ==
Al-Kubaisi in turn claimed that Rana was a representative for the ideology of the Muslim Brotherhood in Norway.
The article has been noted as an important event in the development of a harsher climate towards immigrants in Belgium.
Pankaj Mishra's review in The New York Times described the book as "a handy digest of far-right clichés".
Apostasy and emigration Recovering from his attempt and feeling bad about distressing his family, Navabi became an even more fervent Muslim, never missing a prayer, never even looking at girls lest he become tempted, and diligently studying Islam.
Following the release of Noor's videos, local Islamic groups protested against the blogger and accused him of undermining religious harmony between Muslims and Buddhists.
From 2000 to 2005, when his wife Alexandra Colen served as a member of parliament, Beliën and Colen published a secessionist quarterly journal together entitled Secessie: Kwartaalblad voor de Studie van Separatisme en Directe Democratie.
Ajami (Arabic: فؤاد عجمي, romanized: Fuʾād ʿAjamī; September 18, 1945 – June 22, 2014) was a Lebanese-born American professor and writer on Middle Eastern issues.
Many Muslims—and Orientalists—will tell you otherwise, of course, but the fact is that a fifth of the Koranic text is just incomprehensible.
The author says he never expected to be imprisoned for his online writings, but they became so widely read that the Palestinian authorities perceived him as a threat and had him arrested.
With his approach of research Lüling was an early representative of the "Saarbrücken School" which is part of the Revisionist School of Islamic Studies.
In 2016, it was succeeded by Non-believers: Freethinkers on the Run, which dealt with the fate of apostates and freethinkers in Dutch refugee camps.
Early life Winfield Myers was born in LaFayette, Georgia and graduated from Lafayette High School in 1978.
The hymn was, in the words of a commenter on it, "an implicit challenge" to send missions to those regions.
Essays 2006: "Poste restante: Alger, lettre de colère et d'espoir à mes compatriotes", Gallimard 2007: "Petit éloge de la mémoire", Gallimard Technical literature 1986: La Combustion dans les turboréacteurs, OPU, Alger.
National Review's Jay Nordlinger, on the other hand, praised the book's "wonderfulness" and wrote: "I wish people would read The Victims' Revolution.
Blog announcement of 10 October 2011 On 10 October 2011, Jensen announced on a blog that due to having been involuntarily mixed in with the Breivik-case, he had become unemployed and was in the process of finding a new place to live.
It reduced the damages to 10,000 shekels (about $2,700) on the basis that, in the court's view, Plaut was entitled to criticize Gordon.
The New English Review is an online monthly magazine of cultural criticism, published from Nashville, Tennessee, since February 2006.
She left a university position in human rights research and teaching in the 1980s to help establish the group Women Living Under Muslim Laws (in 1984) and become its first international coordinator.
Since 1998, the Felabration festival, an idea pioneered by his daughter Yeni Kuti, is held each year at the New Afrika Shrine to celebrate the life of this music legend and his birthday.
After an introduction in Part One, Part Two focuses on the difficulty of establishing a reliable Qur'anic text, while Part Three claims to detail the Jewish, Christian, and Zoroastrian sources of the Qur'an.
The book describes his five-month journey in 1995 revisiting four Muslim countries: Indonesia, Iran, Pakistan and Malaysia.
Meyebela, My Bengali Girlhood is a 1998 autobiographical book by Bangladeshi doctor, turned feminist writer Taslima Nasrin.
The first major influence on the Philosophical Dictionary is Voltaire's visit to England, which gave him the opportunity to compare the problems in France with a place that had free press and to become better acquainted with important and influential thinkers such as Locke and Newton.
Synopsis Islam’s Non Believers explores the experiences of ex-Muslims worldwide through following the work of Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain, a support and campaigning group founded by Iranian-born human rights activist Maryam Namazie.
He joined the Islamist Al Adl Wa Al Ihssane organization at a young age, then the Movement of Unicity and Reform, another Islamist organization in Morocco.
Her actions were met with an impassioned speech by then-leader of the government in the senate, George Brandis.
In March 2021, her Twitter account was briefly suspended after a mass reporting campaign by the people harassing her.
The cartoonist also auctioned an overtly Islamophobic work depicting the rape of a woman in a niqab by her son-in-law.
The film premiered in a screening at Vika cinema in Oslo by the free speech organisation Fritt Ord on 25 November 2010, and was shown on national television by TV 2 on 29 November.
Dwikhandito ("Split in two") is an autobiographical book of Bengali novelist and poet Taslima Nasrin, published in 2003.
References External links Paul David Gaubatz blog Muslim Mafia on Google Books Gaubatz interview on WHO (AM) "Muslim Brotherhood 'Conspiracy' to Subvert America", Paul Sperry speaking about book, October 16, 2009
Patricia Crone, Meccan Trade and the Rise of Islam (1987) In Meccan Trade and the Rise of Islam, Patricia Crone argues that Mecca could not have been a hub of overland trade from Southern Arabia to Syria during the time of Muhammad, for several reasons.
Mecca was only a secondary sanctuary; the initial gathering of Hagarenes and Jews took place rather somewhere in north-west Arabia, north of Medina.
The ads were also run on Philadelphia's SEPTA transit system, and Washington, D.C.'s WMATA transit system.
The Quest for the Historical Muhammad (2000) is an anthology of 15 studies examining the origins of Islam and the Quran, edited by Ibn Warraq.
He starts with the Quran, the religious text of Islam; he notes that it contains little details about Muhammad, and often the stories are told indirectly or incompletely.
According to herself in her appeal, her main concern was to stop the immigration of guest workers from Islamic countries, to fight the growth of Islam; including to work against the plans of the building of a Mosque in Oslo.
He asserts that a direct reading of the Koran and texts that interpret it leads to Islamic extremism.
In fact large parts of the documentary Obsession: Radical Islam's War Against the West written by Wayne Kopping and Raphael Shore were copied.
Savage goes on to reference religious passages from the Qur'an which he interprets to promote killing non-believers.
This means that the earliest texts about Islamic Law were written 200 years after the founding of Islam itself.
Bail of Duke University described it as a "pseudo-academic" journal with editorial board members who share an ideological outlook, adding that while it appears to present legitimate academic research, it is regularly criticized "as a channel for anti-Muslim polemics".
The government of Pakistan previously banned Spencer's book, The Truth About Muhammad, in 2007, citing "objectionable material" as the cause.
In October 2018, the website falsely claimed that a Swedish Christmas concert had been cancelled, so as to not offend Muslims.
He additionally produced music videos with atheistic themes, some of them subtitled or translated to other languages such as Arabic and English.
Editor Rebecca Bynum was a long-time collaborator with Robert Spencer, a noted far-right Islamophobe activist, before heralding NER.
Several Bangladeshi and Indian writers called the book a "fictitious fantasy" about sexual encounters.
Meccan Trade And The Rise Of Islam is a 1987 book written by scholar and historiographer of early Islam Patricia Crone.
It argues that the need to legitimize the community and affirm its standing to the outside world influenced the narrative which became woven into the Arab chronicles in the late 7th to the 10th century.
Summary The work recounts the life of Al-Husseini up to 2015 and was released just after the Charlie Hebdo shooting.
Use by NYPD for training The film was used to train New York Police Department officers during required counterterrorism training.
The now young and beautiful captive Palmira has become the object of Mahomet's desires and jealousy.
32 police reports were filed against Yee for his 2015 video, while another police report was made against alleged obscene material on Yee's blog, which contained an image titled "Lee Kuan Yew buttfucking Margaret Thatcher".
He points out that in the Qur'an, the Prophet appears to address farmers and agriculturalists while his opponents are described as keeping cattle and growing olives and vines.
The screenplay was written by William Nicholson and Michael Hirst, and the score composed by Craig Armstrong and A.
He lit this scene with a halo of light surrounding Willa's head on the pillow, foreshadowing that her death is imminent.
The film was Turkey's official submission for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the 80th Academy Awards, but it was not nominated.
Gish had gotten word of his watching these old movies, and when she asked him why, he replied, "When I first went to the movies, they sat in their seats straight and leaned forward.
Lovecraft, but also wants to be anti-bullying homily, anti-religious screed, and worse yet, a TV-level melodrama that, when all cobbled into one presentation, feels like a jumbled mess.
See also List of American films of 1972 Jesus Camp List of rediscovered films Child preacher References External links Marjoe at IMDb Marjoe at Rotten Tomatoes Marjoe review by Richard Brody at The New Yorker
In 2006 a special edition CD added six bonus tracks comprising outtakes, demos and publicity material to the end of the album.
Reception On 5 October 2019, the film had its world premiere at the Nashville Film Festival, followed by screenings at other festivals in the U.S.A.
The film at one point had been slated to be produced by Atlantic Streamline, but Atlantic's unwillingness to handle domestic rights in addition to foreign rights resulted in the deal never materializing.
McGlynn Release The film got a limited US theatrical release in December 2004, following its festival screenings.
Al-Kubaisi in turn claimed that Rana was a representative for the ideology of the Muslim Brotherhood in Norway.
The film also won Best Group Sex Scene at the 2001 XRCO Awards and the Ninfa Awards for Best Anal Scene and Best 100% Sex Film at the 2001 Barcelona International Erotic Film Festival, which it was entered in under the name Orgías Vikingas.
Daggubati Venkatesh said in an interview to The Hindu that this film would focus on the tensions between Indian rituals and spirituality.
Earth (Russian: «Земля», Ukrainian: «Земля», romanized: Zemlya) is a 1930 Soviet Ukrainian silent film by Alexander Dovzhenko.
Of the two, Father Thomas Riley is the older and jaded miracle investigator who has seen too many frauds, while the younger Father John Thornton is enthusiastic about the assignment, and believes they will find a genuine miracle.
Awards and nominations References External links Official website Official website - Angel Grace Productions Conspiracy of Silence at IMDb Conspiracy of Silence at Rotten Tomatoes
Special features on the DVD include a commentary with Bill Maher and director Larry Charles, deleted scenes, and extended Bill Maher monologues from around the world that were either edited down or not included in the film at all.
The film promotes the Christ myth theory, a fringe theory that Jesus was not a real historical person.
She also feels that Christians need to focus on training kids since "the enemy" (radical Islam) is focused on training theirs.
See also Cinema of Australia Lawsuits against God References External links The Man Who Sued God at IMDb The Man Who Sued God reviewed at BBC Films The Man Who Sued God at the National Film and Sound Archive The Man Who Sued God at Oz Movies
Cast Production Development In a March 2016 interview, Fahadh Faasil revealed that he would be acting in Anwar Rasheed's next directorial and its subject had never been attempted before in Malayalam cinema.
Production Lane wanted to combat the widespread view of the Satanic panic of the 1970s through 1990s, during which Satanists were described as rapists and murderers, usually of children.
Cinematic references The movie was inspired mainly by Richard Donner's Superman (1978) with some stylistic elements such as the costumes inspired by the Batman (1960's) TV series with Adam West.
Plot In the near future, Britain is ruled by the Norsefire political party, a fascist and totalitarian regime led by High Chancellor Adam Sutler.
Camila is a 1984 Argentine drama film directed by María Luisa Bemberg, based on the story of the 19th-century Argentine socialite Camila O'Gorman.
That it's packaged all up in a single film couldn't quite outweigh the fact that it's all been done before.
As often as their skins are consumed We shall exchange them for fresh skins that they may taste the torment.
Despite the arrival of Terenty, who intends to take over the grandfather’s role in watching over Yegorka, Timofey successfully brings the boy into his care.
Release The world premiere of The Grey took place on January 11, 2012, at the Regal Cinemas Theatre in Los Angeles.
The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser is a masterpiece that tells you as much about its maker as it does about the legendary Kaspar himself.
Lennertz declared that the duo decided to have a serious and straightforward musical approach, performed with a full orchestra at Abbey Road Studios, for feeling that “to try to make [the movie] more funny is the wrong thing to do".
When she doesn't die, because he hit her in her prosthetic arm, he believes this to be a divine signal, starts a relationship with her, and learns to embrace life instead of death.
Content Synopsis Honor Diaries traces the work of nine women’s rights advocates who came together to engage in a discourse about gender inequality and honor-based violence.
After grossing an additional $340,343 during its second weekend, it expanded to 589 screens on June 11 and reached number 9 at the U.S.
He then makes Fenton dig a large hole in the backyard, seemingly to test his will and help bring him to faith.
Spencer / Humphrey Williams / Sturridge / Ainsworth / Waiter / Eric's Assistant / Maître D' / Grim Reaper Terry Gilliam as Window Washer / Fish #4 / Walters / Middle of the Film Announcer / M'Lady Joeline / Mr.
While there are several shots of slaves and harem girls throughout the film (which were shot by another director without Griffith's involvement), the scene that Brown describes is not in any surviving versions.
However, it emerged that the film would be officially launched on 2 June 2014 and shooting would be done in a specially erected set in Hyderabad.
Word-of-mouth momentum helped Sinners earn the second-best Monday haul for an R-rated horror film at $7.8 million, behind It ($8.6 million in 2017).
Still, the director thought he'd make things even more interesting by casting a 41-year-old street musician credited as "Bruno S." who had spent decades in and out of mental institutions and had never acted before.
It was on the basis of In the Shadow of the Sword that Channel 4, a commercial television company based in the U.K., commissioned Holland to produce a documentary on the subject of Islam's origins.
Since none of these actresses were available, Ishita Vyas and Kaavya Shah were roped in to play those roles.
Admonishing Brown’s harshness, Brady quotes Proverbs 11:29: "He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind," sending the crowd home.
Unsworth Production The film was shot on location in Blundellsands, Liverpool, London, and Manchester.
However, in the graphic novel, he is portrayed as ruthless, willing to kill anyone who gets in his way.
Kostas Tsokos of FilmBoy gave it a 7/10 saying among others that "First of all, everythings shows love and affection for the genre, and for cinema in general" and that "acting is a bit flat and dry but in most cases fits the movie's style.
In a more negative review, The Wall Street Journal's Zachary Barnes praised Jordan's performance, but wrote that Sinners did not pull together thematically, arguing that "Mr.
Venia turns to reading the Bible selectively and intensely in seeking guidance and solace in response to his changed family circumstances.
The passengers escape safely in the river and are shown on the local news being baptized by the pair, which catches Thunderbird's attention.
In the Name of the Girl (Spanish: En el Nombre de la Hija) is a 2011 Ecuadorian drama film written and directed by Tania Hermida.
Every Man for Himself and God Against All) is a 1974 West German drama film written and directed by Werner Herzog and starring Bruno S.
Saturday's Hunter (Persian: شکارچی شنبه) (also called Saturday Hunter or The Saturday's Hunter) is a 2010 film by the Iranian director Parviz Sheikh Tadi.
The Zane Brothers' cousin, Rob Black, was the owner of Extreme Associates and, according to writer and director Shane Bugbee, the only pornographer who would listen to Bugbee's pitch for Club Satan.
No one in the village believes Min-chul and his attempts to expose Choi to the authorities fall on deaf ears.
Zhenya delicately and patiently tries to win Grunya’s affection, showing her a different way of life.
Premise Sugarcane follows an investigation into Saint Joseph's Indian Residential School, an Indian residential school located near Williams Lake, British Columbia, igniting a reckoning in the lives of survivors and descendants.
Cast Roy Assaf as Avi Bahar Gal Fridman as Kobi Shmaya Itzik Golan as Yaniv Lugassi Rotem Zissman-Cohen as Miri References External links God's Neighbors at IMDb God's Neighbors at Rotten Tomatoes
Plot A band of violent Hasidim patrol their Bat Yam neighborhood and terrorize Arabs and non-observant Jews.
Kanji learns that the lawsuit's verdict was in his favour, and religious organizations were ordered by the court to pay the compensation to all the plaintiffs.
Arvin discovers his father's body beneath the rotting corpse of his dog, and later leads Sheriff Lee Bodecker, the corrupt brother of Sandy Henderson, to the scene.
In 2007, Intrada released a limited edition of Williams' score of the film and an expanded version was released on June 4, 2019.
To raise money for the church, he is willing to enter into a black market operation with the Mafia, selling cartons of cigarettes by the tens of thousands for a percentage of the take.
The group conducts advanced research into creating the ability for humans to send physical objects through time.
All the data regarding the planets, including the secrets about the DNA of their respective species, are recorded into mystical objects known as the lens.
Awards The film received positive reviews immediately upon its screening and was shown at several film festivals in Israel and around the world.
When he is pushed by the Sheikh to collect from everyone, even those who cannot pay, a shift happens as he is faced with the crisis of following his inner voice and the directions of his beloved Sheikh.
Critical reception Film critic Roger Ebert was harsh in his criticism of the film, writing, "The movie opens with a long-winded narration, in a hapless attempt to orient us, but not long afterward the narrator has to break in again—we're lost already.
Wandering the streets of Brussels, Ea first enlists a homeless man, Victor, to be her scribe, since she cannot write well, and then begins to find her six apostles to narrate their own life stories for the Testament.
Production The film received grants from Catapult Film Fund and the International Documentary Association Enterprise Fund.
"Save All My Brothers", the film's theme song, was written by Sarah Kernochan and Joseph Brooks, who also arranged it, and it was sung by Jerry Keller.
Many films of the mid-1950s, even the good ones, seem somewhat dated now, but by setting his story in an invented movie world outside conventional realism, Laughton gave it a timelessness...
The film premiered at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival where it was awarded the World Cinema Screenwriting Award.
Appalachia itself also inspired Campos and company when they were considering the visuals in the film.
In two news conferences after he made the tweet, Irving refused to apologize and declined to disavow antisemitism or the Hebrews to Negroes film.
The popular rapper Lecrae, on his Facebook, encouraged his fans to think about the video by linking an article titled "Does Jesus hate religion?
Before the two can undress, they are distracted by a noise, revealed to be someone putting candles on the hood of the car.
Being at the event, which they viewed as a kind of Woodstock for science, Gus and Luke Holwerda conceived the idea of following Krauss around on his lectures and debates and documenting his venture in the style of a rock band tour movie.
The Bomb – In a docudrama, a police superintendent and a fire chief evacuate a police station due to a bomb threat, only to find that it was a ticking alarm clock.
Although Darabont considered shooting The Mist digitally, he ultimately chose to film on 400 ASA Fujifilm to give it a grainy, not "too beautiful" texture.
They ascertain that there are no children in the asylum; the children's wing has been closed since the war.
While preparing for the filming, Laughton studied silent films by viewing their original nitrate prints, including The Birth of a Nation, Intolerance, and The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.
Since they are unable to defecate into the glasses despite their best efforts, they shoot each other in order to at least fill the glasses with blood.
Dovzhenko also drew inspiration from his childhood memories, for instance basing the character of Semyon on his own grandfather.
At the end of the film, nature triumphs over its adversary, with the Pan-like Black Phillip goring the axe-wielding William in a metaphor for man being consumed by the wild.
Antonia expresses displeasure with their clandestine relationship, but Daniela is unwilling to commit to only one partner.
As Meagan tries to call the police, Mark arms himself with a gun and has Meagan flee outside when Jonas appears.
The group campaigns to have it erected next to a Ten Commandments monument to raise awareness of how Christian privilege is discrimination, while also supporting the rights of Woman's Reproductive freedom and the LGBTQ community.
In New York (the film's release in the US preceded British distribution), screenings were picketed by both rabbis and nuns ("Nuns with banners!" observed Michael Palin).
To shoot the film, Dovzhenko partnered with the Ukrainian cinematographer Danylo Demutsky, who also shot two of Dovzhenko's previous films, Zvenigora and Arsenal.
Cumberland strangles Albino to death in a rage after Albino accuses him of being impotent, which Christian witnesses.
Takva: A Man's Fear of God (Turkish: Takva) is a 2006 Turkish language film directed by Özer Kızıltan.
Noting that the film came from "an innocent place", Rogen stated that "'What would it be like if our food had feelings?' We very quickly realized that it would be fucked up." Evan Goldberg revealed the project to Indiewire in July 2010, stating it was a "top secret super project".
Accordingly, Caleb returns nude after being seduced by the witch, the witches themselves perform their acts while naked, and Thomasin eventually adopts this code upon joining them.
decides to give all of Thunderbird's money away and tells Ambrose what to do to accomplish this, which results in bags of money being poured out of the office's window.
Otto's scenes, and those with Pilate's wife, were cut from the film after the script had gone to the publishers, and so they can be found in the published version of the script.
Plot With the Vatican having financial difficulties during World War II, Father John Flaherty, a young priest from America is sent for, recommended because of his accounting skill.
The Vikings abduct women for themselves and Simon to rape, and after one captive is gangraped by the Vikings, including by being sodomized with a cigar, she attempts to garner mercy by consenting to having sex with Simon.
Despite her protests of innocence and proclamation of her faith, Cumberland sentences Deidre to be tortured on a rack and later have her tongue ripped out until she confesses.
Accolades Legacy As a result of the film's success, Georgios Papaioannou, a successful PhD in civil engineering, decided to pursue a career in visual effects.
Visual style Campos stated that visual inspiration from the film mainly stemmed from the visual descriptions that Pollock provided in the novel itself.
Sugarcane is a 2024 documentary film, directed by Julian Brave NoiseCat and Emily Kassie and produced by Emily Kassie and Kellen Quinn.
Hauser becomes the subject of much curiosity, and is exhibited in a circus before being rescued by Professor Georg Friedrich Daumer, who patiently attempts to transform him.
Inspector Tuttumpezzo – A children's show, narrated in rhyme, shows the incorruptible police inspector Tuttumpezzo go to arrest a corrupt politician, who is hosting a party.
They produced various short and feature DIY comedies and parodies in a philosophy similar to Monty Python's.
During the show, the band subjected Paris Gables, the star of Club Satan, to a mock human sacrifice in the name of Satan.
Reasoning with Stack that outside income is necessary, Mary goes outside and talks to Remmick, only to be turned by him.
Among the goddess figurines appearing in the film are the Seated Woman of Çatalhöyük (6,000 BC, Turkey), the Venus of Willendorf (30,000 BC, Austria), and the Venus of Hohle Fels (35,000 BC, Germany).
With the Church Hierarchy and his political allies demanding retribution, Rosas issues a decree that both Camila and Fr.
Accompanied by a friend and a yoga teacher, he traveled to Phoenix, where he investigated the local New Age scene and built a group of followers.
The lot on Sunset Boulevard featured a Babylon set with 300-foot (91 m) tall walls as well as streets of Judea and medieval France.
As the Spanish Armada begins its approach up the English Channel, Elizabeth forgives Bess and sets Raleigh free to join Sir Francis Drake in battle.
The site's critics consensus states: "Creepy and disturbing, Frailty is well-crafted, low-key horror." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 64 out of 100, based on 32 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews.
The two eventually have sex, and Daniela writes on her blog about feeling torn between Antonia and Tomás, both of whom she is regularly sexually involved with.
Plot CBI Deputy Chief Pravallika is on a mission to apprehend a Mafia don disguised as religious leader Anantananda Swamy.
Beyond Johnny helping him get a city hall permit to investigate on the reservation, Luke befriends Johnny and his family during his extended stay in the area and begins to learn more about the history behind the reservation and the local boarding school from Johnny's father Pete.
It contains scenes from the film interrupted by linking sections performed by Eric Idle and Graham Chapman, who also acted as producers following an aborted attempt at a soundtrack album by Michael Palin.
It went into general release in the UK on 17 March 1995 and limited release on 8 screens in the US the following week.
Dearbhail Lynch as Eileen Murphy Carleen Melaugh as Sister Maria Louise Production Clarke stated in an interview that she was wanted to publicise the horrors of the Magdalene Laundries in Ireland, saying: "I had my son when I was 17, which was the year after the last Magdalene Laundry closed.
Plot Humble and devout Muharrem lives in a solitary and meager existence of prayer and sexual abstinence.
Plot Three intersecting stories are told centered on the Fond du Lac Indian Reservation and the adjacent town of Cloquet in the Arrowhead Region of northeastern Minnesota.
She catches the attention of Zhenya Sukhorukov, the factory’s resourceful and romantic supply manager and Timofey’s loyal friend.
Awards In the Days of Whore won Best Anal Sex Scene (Video) and Most Outrageous Sex Scene at the 18th AVN Awards.
The ancient "Babylonian" story (539 BC) depicts the conflict between Prince Belshazzar of Babylon and Cyrus the Great of Persia.
External links Jesus Camp synopsis by Magnolia Pictures Kids in Ministry International (KIMI) – Sponsoring organization of the camp Jesus Camp at IMDb Jesus Camp at Metacritic
Monsignor is a 1982 American drama film directed by Frank Perry about Roman Catholic priest John Flaherty's rise through the ranks of the Vatican, during and after World War II.
Beck and Woods said the film was inspired by Inherit the Wind (1960) and Contact (1997), both films that discuss religion seriously but "in a kind of popcorn movie context".
It won the People's Choice Award at the 1994 Toronto International Film Festival, was named Best New British Feature at the 1994 Edinburgh International Film Festival, and won the Teddy Award at the 1995 Berlin International Film Festival.
Sodom and Gomorrah: The Last Seven Days is a 1975 pornographic comedy film directed and produced by the Mitchell brothers, set in biblical times.
Cast Production The film was inspired by events from Lightning's life, and the lives of her family members and community.
I think I need an exorcism!" To promote the film, a website, www.clubsatan.com, was launched in February 2007.
References External links Saturday's Hunter at IMDb Saturday's Hunter, Full copy of film as screened on Iranian TV, available at Lenziran.com.
The film premiered at the Boston SciFi Film Festival on 12 February 2020 and concentrates on the adventures of young scientists who invented a time machine.
The story is headlined on the front page of the local newspaper and, unable to face his parishioners, Father Greg relocates to a remote rural parish headed by a disapproving and unforgiving priest.
God on Trial is a 2008 British television play written by Frank Cottrell-Boyce, starring Antony Sher, Rupert Graves and Jack Shepherd.
Ohad decides to remove the rubber band from his wrist and goes in to say the blessing of the priests, a step that shows he is at peace with the situation.
Herzog won the film award in silver (Filmband in Silber), being the only film awarded in the category "Feature Film Direction" (programmfüllender Spielfilm (Gestaltung)), which came with a substantial cash prize.
Ebert criticizes the film for apparently believing Feldman himself is inherently funny, and for failing to have the necessary material to build on.
This was the first time a Bollywood film used a talking standee at varied locations as a part of its promotions.
Home media V for Vendetta was released on DVD in the US on 1 August 2006, in three formats: a single-disc widescreen version, a single-disc fullscreen version, and a two-disc wide-screen special edition.
Guy Hendrix Dyas was the film's production designer and co-visual effects supervisor, and the costumes were created by Alexandra Byrne.
Ambrose is angered by this message and tries to meet a number of times with Thunderbird, being ejected each time.
The hero is torn between his love for his God and his desire to be a full partner in Torah and Yeshiva life, and his sexual orientation.
The film's soundtrack album was released on August 5, 2016, by Madison Gate Records and Sony Music Masterworks.
The film received very vocal condemnation from the Church, with the Catholic Church in Ireland in particular calling for a ban on theatrical distribution.
Release The world premiere for The Unbelievers was on April 29, 2013 at Hot Docs Film Festival in Toronto, Ontario, and all four screenings of the film were sold out.
Both visually and thematically, The Voyage Home ties in with Roberto Rossellini's 1972 film Augustine of Hippo, for which Claudio Bondì had been an assistant director.
Mobile game Frank and Brenda, the two main characters of the film, made guest appearances in the mobile fighting game Sausage Legend, released by Milkcorp for iOS and Android, as part of a limited special event that ran from March 6 through July 31, 2017.
Lawsuit The priest portrayed in the film, Bernard Preynat, attempted without success to block its release in France.
Then it cuts to cartoonish scenes depicting the Prophet Muhammad as a child of uncertain parentage, a buffoon, a womanizer, a homosexual, a child molester, and a greedy, bloodthirsty thug." Most references to Islam were overdubbed over the original spoken lines after filming had been completed.
When he seeks to mask his vile motives behind an oily religious jargon and a mouthful of sweet talk, he is so ludicrous you can't blame moviegoers for laughing aloud.
Cast Linus Roache as Father Greg Pilkington Tom Wilkinson as Father Matthew Thomas Robert Carlyle as Graham Cathy Tyson as Maria Kerrigan Christine Tremarco as Lisa Unsworth Robert Pugh as Mr.
The space captain of their ship has the physical appearance of a chimpanzee and speaks with a voice which imitates John Wayne.
Pycroft / Dad / Narrator #1 / Chaplain / Carter / Spadger / Regimental Sergeant Major / Pakenham-Walsh / Rear End / Female TV Presenter / Mr.
In 2010, Miramax was sold by The Walt Disney Company (their owners since 1993), with the studio being taken over by private equity firm Filmyard Holdings that same year.
Later, Agent Hull visits Adam, who is revealed to be the sheriff of Thurman, to inform him of the findings.
It features discussions using passages from religious texts and includes commentaries by Robert Spencer, Serge Trifkovic, Bat Ye'or, Abdullah Al-Araby, and Walid Shoebat.
Marta, 'The Master Gunfighter,' a splendid period re-creation, is awash with striking imagery that finds beauty even in chaos—just as in a samurai movie.
Club Satan: The Witches Sabbath (also known as The Devil in Miss Gables) is a 2007 American pornographic horror film written and directed by Shane Bugbee, co-written by Amy Bugbee, and produced and distributed by Extreme Associates.
Christianity and the Christian church are presented as fanatical and in opposition to the Roman values of peace and cultivation.
The Norwegian state suspended financial support to three Muslim religious groups as a result of the documentary.
Ea and her apostles go to the seaside where hundreds of people have gathered to spend the last hours of their lives.
1 film of the decade, saying: Two years after first seeing There Will Be Blood, I am convinced that Paul Thomas Anderson's profound portrait of an American primitive—take that, Citizen Kane—deserves pride of place among the decade's finest.
The cast includes Christopher Reeve, Geneviève Bujold, Fernando Rey, Jason Miller, Joseph Cortese, Adolfo Celi, and Leonardo Cimino.
Whatsoever ye spend in the way of Allah it will be repaid to you in full, and ye will not be wronged.
The film, which went unproduced, would have been released in a two-disc DVD set with a remastered and recut version of In the Days of Whore.
See also List of films set in ancient Rome References Notes Sources External links The Voyage Home at IMDb
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 46 out of 100, based on 13 critics, indicating "mixed or average" reviews.
The classroom erupts in an outburst of laughter and confusion in response to Venia’s nudity and the principal is called to the classroom to quell the commotion.
Ambrose grabs the paid monastery mortgage certificate from Thunderbird's office and escapes in a chase through the city.
Matthews plays a dangerous game by asking for money in exchange for his silence and not airing the video but is killed on Solomon's orders .
See also The Last Temptation of Christ (novel) (1955) The Last Temptation of Christ (film) (1988) The Last Hangover (2018) List of works depicting Jesus as LGBT Gay Jesus film hoax Notes References External links The First Temptation of Christ at IMDb
After unsuccessfully pitching films that were "too weird, too obscure", Eggers realized that he would have to make a more conventional film.
Newcomer Jackson Vijayan, composed the film's soundtrack album, with the title song being composed by Vinayakan; the background score was composed by Vijayan along with Sushin Shyam.
At the local seminary, two students near ordination are expelled because one, Daniel (Jonathon Forbes) was seen leaving the room of the other, Niall (Paudge Behan).
Griffith chose to explore the theme of intolerance partly in response to his previous film, The Birth of a Nation (1915), being derided by the NAACP and others for perpetuating and supporting racial stereotypes and glorifying the Ku Klux Klan.
They argue at Ramon's flat as she becomes bossy over his career, and he tries to get her to model (clothed) with a naked male model so he can complete a sculpture.
Plot Father Greg Pilkington, newly assigned to St Mary's parish in inner-city Liverpool, is startled to discover Father Matthew Thomas is engaged in a sexual relationship with rectory housekeeper Maria Kerrigan.
They were symptoms of the church/state apparatus, the combination of the two things created the mechanism.
In 1989, it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant", the first year of voting.
Music With the success of Eric Idle's musical retelling of Monty Python and the Holy Grail, called Spamalot, Idle announced that he would be giving Life of Brian a similar treatment.
He spent the next several years using his fame and status as an evangelist to earn a living from both tent revivals and televangelism.
Release The official world premiere for Older than America took place at the 2008 SXSW Festival in the narrative feature competition.
As he got to know and like the people who responded to his teachings and practices, Gandhi became troubled by his deceit and increasingly nervous about the idea of unveiling himself.
He becomes increasingly filthy while trying to remedy this and ultimately shoots himself in the head to avoid humiliation.
These issues include opposition to democracy, Islamic views on homosexuality and women's treatment in Islam.
In one of them, Levi's father and mother suggest that a future president may well have been at Kids on Fire.
The film shows that many young British ex-Muslims hide their true beliefs, running huge risks if they 'come out' as atheists within their communities.
Fenton recalls helping Meiks abduct their second victim in broad daylight, with Meiks claiming that God would blind any witnesses.
From the beginning production was difficult, including that at least half a dozen languages were spoken on set, which caused problems for the cast and crew.
During a sermon, Roy is bitten by a spider on his face and has a severe allergic reaction that affects his grip on reality, coming to believe that he can resurrect the dead.
Pravallika accomplishes the mission and dies in the final battle between the Police and Swamy's Gang.
It received polarizing reviews from critics, who praised the performances (particularly Holland and Pattinson) but were critical of the film's length and dark tone.
Before the service, Levi mentioned how he admired Ted Haggard and was looking forward to meeting him.
Frailty is a 2001 psychological horror film directed by and starring Bill Paxton, and co-starring Matthew McConaughey and Powers Boothe.
They also reveal that Fischer and the others did not understand why some of the scenes of them speaking in tongues and praying over objects were included in the film, since such occurrences were second nature to them.
Shortly thereafter, her aunt dies, leaving Daniela with many unanswered questions, ranging from spirituality to relationships.
In the United Kingdom, the film was given an AA (14) rating by the British Board of Film Classification, though 11 local councils outright banned the film, while a further 28 raised the rating from AA to X across their jurisdictions.
This is first felt in the architecture of the family's own home, which ironically resembles an archetypal witch's cottage itself, hinting at the gradual reveal that evil is already instilled in them.
(Russian: Люблю тебя, жизнь!) is a 1960 Soviet anti-religious drama film directed by Mikhail Yershov.
The second video, filmed for the Thin White Duke remix, features a genderless little person of unknown age in a hooded winter jacket spray-painting graffiti on public walls in or near the city of London.
While critical of much of Bowie's 1980s output in his appraisal of Best of Bowie in 2002, BBC reviewer Chris Jones stated: "Loving the Alien does have a strange, distant beauty to it.
James Hamilton from the Record Mirror Dance Update commented, "Camp and corny party fun from Sweden, this Abba-ishly chorused, phonetic guy rapped, strings swirled and—just to cap it all!—Duane Eddy-ish guitar twanged 0-122bpm jiggly jumper sounds like a pop hit with wide gimmick appeal".
The former archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey, also criticized the song as "juvenile" and urged other Christians to "rise above." He also stated that he doubted whether Bowie would have the courage to use Islamic imagery.
It is one of the more uptempo tracks on One Assassination Under God – Chapter 1, and was described in reviews as a pop metal, industrial pop, glam rock and gothic rock song, with elements of industrial and alternative rock.
"Opiate" serves as the final track of the Opiate EP and contains the hidden track, "The Gaping Lotus Experience".
He also sang backing vocals on "Thou Shalt Not" (which he even co-wrote), "Take It Off", "Tough Love", "Heart of Chrome" and "I Just Wanna".
The blonde woman in the album's cover art was speculated to be either: a representation of guitarist Helen Storer of the UK all-female band Fluffy, who joined Jack Off Jill onstage once for their farewell performance at The Troubadour in Los Angeles in April 2000.
But I didn't believe in that, that you have to be tortured to attain anything, it just so happens that you were".
Bowie said Little Richard, his "earliest rock hero", was an inspiration for songs like "Modern Love", specifically the call-and-response sections.
"But the bottom line...is to take the chance, roll the bones, if it's a random universe and that's terrifying and it makes you neurotic and everything, never mind.
Bassist Jeff Ament brought fellow Missoula, Montana resident Andy Smetanka to do the animation for the video.
Music video The music video for "Red Dress" was directed, produced, choreographed, and edited by Brand, who described the video as a "cinematically holistic portrayal of judgement".
"Modern Love" is a rock song that has elements of new wave and soul music and features a "chukka-chukka" rhythm that's "at once funky and strange", followed by a "soothing" electronic riff.
Christopher Sandford said the song contains one of Bowie's best lyrics, and Chris O'Leary described it as "a would-be masterpiece that aimed for the heights of 'Station to Station' and missed".
Music video During the filming of the video, unbeknownst to Michaels, the director had inserted footage of James Kimo Maano which was playing on a screen in front of Bret.
Hopps said, however, that at the same time it "seems to be making fun of religious teaching in a way the psalmists and Job do not".
Abortion-rights activists have sung the song outside abortion clinics to ridicule their opponents, legal scholars have alluded to it in discussions of women's reproductive rights, and Emily Martin describes its usage as a reductio ad absurdum of anti-abortion positions.
Child rape is bad because it causes physical harm and psychological trauma, often for a lifetime...if you're not angry enough at the church to swear, then what's wrong with you?".
"Turtles All the Way Down" is a song written and recorded by American country music artist Sturgill Simpson.
The lyrical content resulted in Sony Music, the owner of the album's publishing rights, not releasing the album at all in many countries in the Middle East, and releasing it without the song "How Do You Do" in GCC countries and Lebanon.
Personnel Bright Eyes Conor Oberst – vocals, guitar Mike Mogis – guitar, mandolin, banjo, bass, half guitar, lap steel, castanets, dobro Nate Walcott – organ, wurlitzer, piano, flugelhorn Additional personnel M.
The track reflects the singer's upbringing in an Irish Catholic community and his status as a lapsed Catholic.
Stop the Church (1991), a short documentary about an HIV/AIDS demonstration in New York City, uses the song as the background music to church services.
Only the following year, the melody to which The Internationale is usually sung was composed by Pierre De Geyter for the choir "La Lyre des Travailleurs" of the French Workers' Party in his hometown of Lille, and the first performed there in July 1888.
The single's B-side, "Don't Look Down", a cover of Iggy Pop's song and included on Tonight, are remixed on both the 7" and 12" single release.
Cover versions In 2023, Swedish rock band Ghost released a cover of the song as the lead single for their EP Phantomime.
Release and promotion A three-track digital single was released on September 27, 2024, by Nuclear Blast.
However, they went on to say that "no one quite does sleazy industro-pop like Manson, and it's easy to imagine his fans lapping [the song] up." Greg Burk of Metal Jazz called it the album's "obligatory 'Beautiful People' redux".
Joe is informed that the best appliances speak foreign languages, which leads to the next song, "Stick It Out".
In 2012, Loudwire ranked the song number one on their list of the 10 greatest Megadeth songs, and in 2018, Billboard ranked the song number two on their list of the 15 greatest Megadeth songs.
Criticism African-American composer Hall Johnson criticized the song for depicting African Americans as "racially out of character".
Polunin posted a series of homophobic, sexist and fatphobic comments about his fellow dancers on Instagram in 2019.
The song was played in Gabriel Aghion's 1996 film, Pédale douce, and was thus included in the track listing of the soundtrack.
Studios Recorded at Grouse Lodge (County Westmeath, Ireland), Real World Studios (Wiltshire, England), and Eden Studios (London, England) Mixed at South Lane Studios (England) Mastered at Sterling Sound Personnel Charts == References ==
Synopsis In the song, Minchin states that anyone protecting child molesters is a "motherfucker", which made him so angry that he was reduced to swearing.
If you work in just the one place it can get quite boring." Gore, who had been engaged to his childhood sweetheart Anne Swindell while living in England, broke off the engagement shortly after moving to Berlin.
Origin and recording "Do the Evolution" features lyrics written by vocalist Eddie Vedder and music written by guitarist Stone Gossard.
Other versions include Cher in 1994, Tina May in 1995, Jamie Cullum in 2002, Joe Henderson with Sting in 1997, Brian Wilson on his 2010 Brian Wilson Reimagines Gershwin album and Hugh Laurie on his 2011 album Let Them Talk.
The original album version, most of its remixes and B-sides all appear on the 2018 box set Loving the Alien (1983–1988), which took its name from the song.
Merhige used military footage from different countries and different wars that depicted the fascist aspect of the song.
Having written the final version of "Jesus Christ 2005 God Bless America", the 1975 invited Bridgers to help record textures and harmonies for the song.
Rosenthal of San Francisco-based film company Complex Corporation mentioned his involvement in the production of the video and he is credited in the film's intertitle.
Plagiarism accusation At the time of the single's release, British DJ Jonathan King accused the Pet Shop Boys of plagiarising the melody for "It's a Sin" from Cat Stevens' 1971 song "Wild World".
Track listing Basic edition "I'm Not Jesus" featuring Corey Taylor – 3:35 "Worlds Collide" – 4:29 Premium edition "I'm Not Jesus" featuring Corey Taylor – 3:36 "Worlds Collide" – 4:28 "S.O.S.
The end of the song references Love's feelings toward those around her, saying that every one of them "looks the same" and "feels the same".
Fascism is precisely what I'm out to destroy but if people see our show and see fascism, it's in them already.
Because of this link between desire and religion, some journalists, including Rolling Stone's James Hunter and The Advocate's David White, understood the song as a critique of organized religion.
He said that the only problem with the song was the production, and that "the calypso trimmings used to be a distinctive trademark of Kenny Chesney records, but by now, they’re a crutch." Music video In August 2008, Chesney traveled to Jamaica to film the song's music video.
There is also a Uyghur version, a Salar version, a Tibetan version, a Hmong version, a Chakhar Mongolian version, a Yi version, and a Zhuang version translated from the Mandarin Chinese version, used for ethnic minorities in China.
A spoken introduction describes the song as a response to the "Vatican II" council—which, among other things, broadened the range of music that could be used in services—and humorously proposes this rag as a more accessible alternative to traditional liturgical music.
Wendy never accepted it." Prieboy began writing "Tomorrow Wendy" while touring with his band Wall of Voodoo.
Background This song was dedicated to James Kimo Maano, a security guard and best friend of Bret Michaels who had died some time earlier.
The track has been described as art pop, downtempo, electronic, rock, folk rock, indie rock, indietronica, and progressive pop.
And I picked up my guitar, thinking, "What the hell are they doing?" It took me a while to figure out what's going on rhythmically and where to punctuate the one, so what I start hearing is that swirling, kamikaze bat [guitar] sound at the beginning.
Rodgers described the track as "an old barrelhouse rocker with a real pounding Little Richard-type piano, while on top it has a very sophisticated jazz horn sound"; he would later call the track one of his favourites.
And Matt starts making it precise and coherent; Matt's drum part is insane – it's so fast and coordinated.
The song was released as the third single from the band's fourth studio album Beyond Hell/Above Heaven.
It features a "half-assed" guitar solo and off-key vocals from Brand, who stated that the song's vocals "don't seem to quite fit" and "make people uncomfortable".
The name of the song is also used as the title of a novel based on Joe Hill's life written by Wallace Stegner.
Composition and performances In the early 1960s Lehrer wrote satiric topical songs for the US version of the television show That Was the Week That Was.
On October 20, 2009, "Leave Me Alone" and "Show Me a God" was officially released as the first and second digital singles.
I'm thoroughly entertained by it as a massive piece of performance art because it has so many dimensions, because we're the polar opposite of Nazism, would be the first to be destroyed by it, and we're using that imagery against itself ...
It was originally screened at the 1997 San Francisco Film Festival as part of a program titled "Newly Minted Memories".
Flak is my job." Dedication At his show in Glasgow in August 2001, Manson dedicated the song to Nicola Ann Raphael, who had committed suicide two months ago at 15 years old because of bullying over her Goth lifestyle.
Then the verse begins, and it goes on as verse, chorus, verse, chorus, verse, chorus, verse, chorus.
A different single was released in Europe on CD, 12 in (300 mm) vinyl, 7 in (180 mm) vinyl, and cassette.
Lennon's strumming technique includes a riff with a hammer-on pick of the E note on the D string and then an open A string.
It also incorporates extensive use of guitar distortion, and the use of palm muting creates a highly rhythmic, driving style amplified by a heavy percussion track.
Walden – additional keyboards, programming Production and management Tony Adams – drum technician Orville Almon Jr.
Like the recording sessions for his previous album Let's Dance (1983), Bowie played no instruments, and he delegated almost all responsibility for the music to the musicians, only occasionally offering critical input.
The song has also been covered by the industrial metal band Static-X, released as the first single from their 2024 album Project Regeneration Vol.
In the studio, Gore and Jones bonded over their interest in the band in German experimental music group Einstürzende Neubauten, who Gore had seen at a show in January that year, giving him the idea to experiment with the sounds of industrial music in the context of pop.
However, the launch of the song was marred by controversy when many radio stations and music channels banned the song and its accompanying music video due to the song's lyrical content and the bad reflection focused on CBS schools in Ireland.
It was the band's first album to feature Alan Wilder as a member, who wrote two of the album's songs.
Critics noted similarities between "I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)" and the music of David Bowie, particularly his song "Fame" (1975), as well as the work of Manson's contemporaries.
"Garbadge Man" is a song by the American alternative rock band Hole, written collectively by the band's original line-up.
It does not, however, discuss Christian themes of redemption but merely gives a testament of faith ("He's smiling down on us from up above / And he's givin' us all his love").
At the time of releasing "Red Dress", Brand was a 22-year-old University of Oxford graduate student pursuing a master's degree in sociology.
Be sure to check out the inventive music videoclip." Randy Clark from Cashbox felt the song "is a more hard-drivin' Genesis, this time with a send up on television evangelists, in contrast to the current hit ballad, 'Hold on My Heart'.
As he continues to evade the presence, the boy descends into the church's dimly-lit basement carrying a lantern.
Lyrics In 1969, Raspoet wrote the song "Evviva Il Papa", which criticized the Pope's conservative ideology, papal infallibility, corruption, ban on anticonception and Pius XII's alleged silence during World War II, when the Nazis prosecuted Jewish people.
The square in the background with seemingly random letters, is one of a series of squares that represent "the shining ones", 7 Gods of Olympus that each rule their own day of the week and planet.
She had a stroke and was reliant on a wheelchair for much of her life yet maintained her Christian faith, which he found incomprehensible.
Together with my sister, we usually went for a ride with the bike and told mum afterwards how lovely the homily was.
It became the duo's second number-one single on the UK singles chart, spending three weeks atop the chart.
Other notable incarnations of the character include Avon Long and Cab Calloway on stage and Sammy Davis Jr.
The first and only known studio recording of the song was made in March 1991 at Music Box Studios in Los Angeles, as part of the sessions for Pretty on the Inside (1991).
In 1960, Aretha Franklin recorded a cover on her debut studio album, Aretha: With The Ray Bryant Combo for Columbia records.
A remixed version of the song was released on September 4, 2020, by American rapper 6ix9ine titled "Locked Up, Pt.
"Jesus Christ 2005 God Bless America" deals with themes of heartbreak, faith, sexuality, love, vulnerability, defeat and fragility.
This marked Morrissey's fourth straight-to-the-top-10 single of the year, following "Irish Blood, English Heart", "First of the Gang to Die" and "Let Me Kiss You".
The site does acknowledge the argument that "Freedom of speech is awesome, but perhaps some venues are more appropriate than others [for] saying "fuck" an absurdly frequent number of times in a song played publicly".
Track listing 2007 Collectors Edition CD + DVD Personnel Credits adapted from the liner notes of Construction Time Again.
Critics and commenters also compared "Red Dress" to Rebecca Black's 2011 song "Friday" while noting similarities between "Red Dress" and Taylor Swift's 2015 song "Wildest Dreams".
Musical style Musically, M3 has been described as an alternative metal album, which incorporates elements of genres such as rap, punk, industrial, gothic rock, and techno.
It was issued as a single in Europe and Australia in 1992 and was released in the United Kingdom early the following year.
The lyrics, written solely by Love, narrate themes common in Hole songs from this period and also use vast amounts of religious imagery, similar to that in "Turpentine".
References External links "The Vatican Rag" at tomlehrersongs.com, Tom Lehrer's official Web site "The Vatican Rag" – live performance from Copenhagen via YouTube
On the same day the song was premiered by Los Angeles radio station KROQ-FM and on Australian radio station Triple J.
Music video The music video for the song was directed by Maxim Rosenbauer and filmed in Berlin, Germany.
Following Bowie's death in 2016, "Modern Love" was named as one of Bowie's greatest songs by numerous publications.
The Jascha Heifetz violin version provided the music for Olympic gold medalist gymnast Natalia Lashchenova's gold medal-winning floor routine at the 1991 Summer Universiade.
"Who Are the Brain Police?" is a Frank Zappa song, performed by The Mothers of Invention, released on the Mothers' debut album, Freak Out!.
It's an organized institution that, in some political moments, has a very worthy position - but that's not what I'm talking about in the song Igreja.
Vedder saw the first season of Spawn: The Animated Series on HBO in 1997, and was inspired by the art style of this series.
She died of cancer after refusing medical attention, solely relying on her belief in God to heal her.
Reverend Green, of the white man's church, visited him and asked if he believed in the Lord, the church, and Heaven.
– be tortured and then it'll be alright, which seems to be a bit true but not in their concept of it.
So considering it was done in different states with different producers, I think it turned out to be pretty classic Alice.
They have sixty-three children, who are about to be sold for scientific experimentation purposes because their parents can no longer afford to care for such a large family with the local mill being closed.
Martens notes, however, that Hetfield does not celebrate God's failure in the song, but instead blames God, through his mother's faith and death, for contributing to the meaninglessness of life.
We do actually need this divine porn star to come down and teach us what it means to be human again...
I stumble upon these stories, they don't necessarily have to be directly personal but it's things like this that move me.
"Terrible Lie" is frequently regarded as one of the band's best songs, and is among the band's most commonly played songs during concerts.
Ultimate Classic Rock critic Nick DeRiso called "I Found Out" the most underrated song on John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band.
It was released on August 14, 2012 as the third single from his album Food & Liquor II: The Great American Rap Album Pt.
During the sequence of flashing images near the end of the video an image of a yield sign being smashed at the corner can be seen, which references the album title and cover art.
"Igreja" ("Church") is a single by Brazilian rock band Titãs, released in 1986, as part of their Cabeça Dinossauro album.
So he writes a couple other sections to help flesh out the arrangement dynamic and give room for the vocals.
In English renditions, "Internationale" is sometimes sung as IN-tər-nash-ə-NAL-ee rather than the French pronunciation of [ɛ̃tɛʁnɑsjɔnal(ə)].
"Prayer in C" is a song by the French folk-pop duo Lilly Wood and the Prick that was originally released on their album Invincible Friends in 2010.
Tyler Bates – composition, guitars, bass, keyboards, recording and production Will Borza – mastering Robert Carranza – recording and mixing Marilyn Manson – composition, vocals and production Gil Sharone – drums Howie Weinberg – mastering Charts == References ==
In the original version of the video, the "toll-free number" referred to in the lyrics was shown as 1-555-GEN-ESIS.
Chesney's version is the first single from his album Lucky Old Sun, which was released on his own Blue Chair label in association with BNA Records.
Versions and releases In addition to the version on the Antichrist Superstar album and the version on the single (which differ only in the length of the introductory noise) a radio edit also exists, which removes the profanity.
Ooblick.com said those whose mental processes are blocked by the swearing, "rendering them incapable of hearing what the song actually had to say", are "delicate flowers on their fainting couches", and therefore provided a censored version for their benefit.
The song was released as the third and final single from the band's second album, Silence Is Easy (2003), and became a hit, peaking at number one in France and Wallonia, number five in Australia, and number 24 in the United Kingdom.
While the Beatles were basically his family throughout the 1960s, he refers to Paul McCartney's 1965 Beatles song "Yesterday", and states that he is no longer the "Dreamweaver" or "The Walrus", but just "John".
"It's a Sin" is in the key of C minor; the music for the bridge ("Father forgive me...") was taken from another song of theirs written in E-flat minor.
Ron Hoover and the First Church of Appliantology." Plot Appliantology is shown as an insincere religion, which cooperates with a "malevolent totalitarian regime." This is an apparent reference to Scientology and its founder L.
Released as a double A-side with "Isn't It a Pity", with Apple catalogue number 2995 in America, both sides of the disc featured a full Apple label.
The sepia-toned image shows the singer walking down the grey, deserted streets in a broken-down Los Angeles park.
Alec Chillingworth of Metal Hammer described "The Fight Song" as one of the band's "certified classics, branded onto industrial metal's beating heart by one Mr Brian Warner".
Ozzy Osbourne/Black Label Society guitarist, Zakk Wylde is featured on this version, playing the guitar solo Black Veil Brides has cited Kiss (along with Mötley Crüe) as their biggest influences image-wise.
With the Vedic prayer also absent, Leng views this original recording as a possible "definitive 'roots' take'" of the song, citing its "pure gospel groove" and Hawkins' participation.
The Minnesota performance was released on the 1969 bootleg album Great White Wonder, and has since been included in other unofficial compilations.
"Crucified" is a song by Swedish band Army of Lovers, released as the first single from their second album, Massive Luxury Overdose (1991).
A Blu-ray short film directed by Dominic Hailstone was released on March 18 to commemorate the EP's 30th anniversary.
It was the last Genesis single featuring Phil Collins on vocals before leaving the group in March 1996.
"Sacrilegious" – 3:35 "Raise the Red Flag" – 4:49 "As Sick as the Secrets Within" – 5:35 Credits and personnel Credits adapted from the liner notes of One Assassination Under God – Chapter 1.
Although the German press had been good to the band, they were confused about their relative success in Germany, where the album sold twice as many copies as in the UK.
In 1996, Merhige was contacted by Manson to produce a music video for "Cryptorchid" the day after he saw Merhige's 1989 experimental horror film Begotten.
This theme of conformity was found in several songs on the band's second album, Live Through This (1994).
Created by Shakira and production trio The Matrix, the song is a critique of religion that questions the existence of God and His role in human suffering.
The song also seems to draw from the tonality of the Jewish prayer mode Adonai malakh (God is King) by emphasizing the minor tenth, the major third, and the minor seventh.
I don't pray." Reception within the band It was one of the last songs to be selected for the album and it stirred controversy among the members themselves - vocalist Arnaldo Antunes, at first, didn't want to record it and would even leave the stage sometimes when the song was performed live.
Then man comes out of the muck, and 3 million years later he's standing, and now he's controlling everything and killing it.
When Vedder sings "Buying stocks on the day of the crash," a scene is shown where businessmen are committing suicide by jumping from buildings, a reference to the apocryphal suicides of Black Thursday during the Wall Street Crash of 1929.
De Jong compared it with You Are the Quarry's "Let Me Kiss You" (2004); she wrote that both songs approach love in a "grim way" and highlight themes of "physical uncertainties".
The song is inspired by a real woman with whom lead singer and songwriter Peter Steele was once romantically involved.
The video is often remembered for scenes of Amos singing in front of a lit candle, dancing with a plethora of brown rats (possibly at the Rat temple); this was commented on in an episode of the television show Beavis and Butt-head, and parodying a snake cult.
In his autobiography, I, Me, Mine, Harrison states that his inspiration for the song was "Japa Yoga meditation", whereby mantras are sung and counted out on prayer beads.
Composition "Sorrow" was inspired by the biblical figure Job, with Gurewitz saying it was "very difficult to account for suffering in the world from a theological perspective".
The band worked to evolve their look over the course of the album's release, moving away from "respectable pull-overs and checked shirts" and towards wearing black; Gore started wearing fetish leather harnesses in photoshoots, which became part of the band's image over the next few years.
In his interview with Taylor, Kowalewicz explained that the song began when guitarist, Ian D'Sa played a sinister-sounding riff during a writing session, prompting Kowalewicz to ask himself, "What is the worst or most evil thing a person could do to another?" as a starting point for the lyrics.
In Latin America, "The Internationale" has also been translated into different indigenous languages, including Aymara, Guaraní, Nahuatl, and Quechua.
Studios Recorded at The Fishhouse (New Mexico, US) Mixed at Olympic Studios (London, England) Mastered at Gateway Mastering (Portland, Maine, US) Personnel Charts Release history References External links "God" official video on YouTube
Deaf Havana covered this song in 2019 and released it as a single The song was featured in the TV show Preacher.
In the pilot episode for Fox's Lucifer, the song is in both the opening and closing scenes of the episode.
In Germany, Intercord Records released the album (catalogue number INT 146.807) as well as a 'special edition' that came packaged with a poster and the 12" single for "Get the Balance Right!".
The recording is the composite of two different takes: the tone of the guitar and vocal changes between 1:24 and 1:45 for the verse "When they've tortured and scared you".
We all got sick, but it was cool." and "There are these scenes with a dominatrix and pit bulls and there are these fat guys exploding and a chick that's been laying in a tanning bed for too long and her skin turns to leather.
Touring guitarist Daryl Stuermer played lead guitar, including a solo towards the end, while Mike Rutherford played bass.
It was released outside Japan almost a month and a half later with only 10 tracks and in clear jewel case.
The song's aim is to reduce to absurdity calls to ban books and films following well-publicised acts of violence.
Critics and commenters suspected that the song was a social experiment after discovering that Brand was a sociology major at University of Oxford, while others pointed to her prior musical endeavors as evidence to the contrary.
To Eagles' biographer Marc Eliot, "The Last Resort" tells "the story of a nation's self-destruction and physical decay told as metaphor for personal creative burnout." In 2016, the editors of Rolling Stone rated "The Last Resort" as the Eagles #27 greatest song.
Relationships do have their darker side and I like to write about it." Release and promotion The single was released on 29 October 1984 by Mute Records in the UK, and Intercord records in Germany.
I ran it through a distortion pedal, sampled it, then did my Emax trick by dropping it down a couple of octaves.
The title song makes several references to "The Second Coming" by William Butler Yeats, particularly in the refrain, which references "slouching towards Bethlehem." Music video The music video for "Four Winds" shows the band playing at a state fair for a rowdy crowd.
Our shows tend to be violent and this song really fits that image." Background The song was among the first to be written and recorded for the album.
In his review of Want Two, Pitchfork's Stephen Deusner described the savior character as "Wainwright's own personal Jesus".
Paul Carr of PopMatters felt that "Kill4Me", a song recorded later by the band for their 2017 album Heaven Upside Down, had a "vibe" identical to that of "I Don't Like the Drugs (But the Drugs Like Me)".
He continued by saying that "not many other singers today - maybe Win Butler, could get away with so many mentions of both the Whore of Babylon and the Great Satan in one song", and that ""Four Winds" is the rare protest song that actually tries to present an epic vision of America and succeeds".
It stems from seeing how things have been developing politically, and watching so much dissatisfaction and people very upset about the way the country is going.
Three singles were released ("I Did It", "The Space Between", and "Everyday"), with "The Space Between" becoming the band's first top 40 hit in the US.
Music videos There are two different videos for "Four to the Floor." In the first one, filmed for the album version of the song, the band played in a scenario accompanied by the members of a symphonic orchestra appearing and disappearing according to the development of the song and the instruments.
Mustaine said that he was inspired to write the song after an incident at a 1988 concert in Antrim, Northern Ireland, where he unknowingly dedicated their cover of Anarchy in the UK to "The Cause", otherwise known as the Provisional Irish Republican Army, and caused a riot.
Outside Europe, the song peaked at number six on both the US Billboard Dance Club Play and Maxi-Singles Sales charts.
"I'm Not Jesus" is a song by the Finnish cello metal band Apocalyptica, featuring Corey Taylor from Slipknot and Stone Sour.
Halfway through, the song breaks into a fast-paced bridge; the same happens in the coda, which includes a kazoo solo.
In Australia, the album was released with the expletive removed from the song and the lyrics censored on the inner sleeve.
It received a boost of nearly 250% in sales and streams after the 2021 premiere of It's a Sin, a television series about the AIDS crisis of the 1980s that was named after the song.
He described some of the lyrics as ageing well into the 20th century, particularly the references to "Palestine a modern problem" and "Terror in a best lair plan".
"I get angry – gobsmacked, in fact – when I hear George Bush saying that God was on their side during the Gulf War.
We have mortgaged our future for gain and greed." Composition On an episode of In the Studio with Redbeard (which devoted an entire episode to the making of Hotel California), Frey stated: I have to give all the credit for 'The Last Resort' to (Don) Henley.
The song purports to be a response to the Second Vatican Council, a meeting that proposed reforms to the Catholic Church.
The piece develops into a techno dance piece, using string sounds to hold the ominous mood while overlaid atop bass and drums.
A cover "worth mentioning", according to Planer, is a version recorded by pedal steel guitarist Joe Goldmark, released on the 1997 tribute album Steelin' the Beatles.
Macquarie University's Jean-Philippe Deranty traced back its themes of "painful sexual failure" that issues "a traumatic confusion about sexual preferences and sexual abilities" to The Smiths's song "I Want the One I Can't Have" from the 1985 album Meat Is Murder.
The video also portrays Marion Cotillard's character (who is presumed to be a prostitute) suffering from gruesome stigmata, with the detailed depiction of the blood bursting from her wounds, while the priest is dancing with her.
History "Everybody Wants to Go to Heaven" was co-written by Marty Dodson and Jim Collins, the latter of whom has previously co-written two other singles for Chesney: "She Thinks My Tractor's Sexy" from late 1999-early 2000, and "The Good Stuff" from mid-2002.
Track listing "When the President Talks to God" (Conor Oberst) – 2:36 See also List of anti-war songs == References ==
Live performances "Do the Evolution" was first performed live at the band's November 12, 1997, concert in Santa Cruz, California at The Catalyst.
It was directed by Swedish directors Fredrik Boklund and Martin Persson, and filmed at Börringe Priory, a castle in Svedala, Sweden, that was built in 1763 on the ruins of a medieval Benedictine priory.
David Buckley called it "the only track on the [Tonight] album with the gravitas of much of [Bowie's] earlier work".
Background A royalty from the single was donated to the Bosnian Save the Children and Red Cross charities.
"God" is a song by American singer-songwriter and pianist Tori Amos, released by Atlantic and East West Records as a single from her second studio album, Under the Pink (1994).
These are the feelings of rage that Wendy felt." Prieboy also took inspiration from the economic state of his hometown when writing the song.
See also Brickyard Brickworks – Factory where bricks are made Charcoal clamp – Covered fire for producing charcoalPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Storage clamp – Type of storage of agricultural products References External links Brick clamps
Overview Bizen ware has ties to Sue pottery from the Heian period in the 6th century, and made its appearance during the Kamakura period of the 14th century, when changes in lifestyles have led to a demand for hard, durable and practical pottery for everyday use.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Kagawa) References External links Takamatsu City official site (in Japanese) Kagawa Prefecture homepage (in Japanese)
In the manufacture of float glass, a lehr oven is a long kiln with an end-to-end temperature gradient, which is used for annealing newly made glass objects that are transported through the temperature gradient either on rollers or on a conveyor belt.
It was constructed in the Keichō era (1596 - 1615) by Katō Junpei, a potter from Mino Province who had apprenticed at the Karatsu ware kilns in Kyushu.
Owen was worried that his lands would be confiscated under the Plantation of Ulster so he made representations to the Lords of the Council in Whitehall, London.
After the calcination process, the materials go to the sintering process in the kiln, which is located at the bottom of the tower.
The Cowell Lime Works, in Santa Cruz, California, was a manufacturing complex that quarried limestone, produced lime and other limestone products, and manufactured wood barrels for transporting the finished lime.
Internal heat exchangers Heat exchange in a rotary kiln may be by conduction, convection and radiation, in descending order of efficiency.
See also List of World Heritage Sites in South Korea Joseon white porcelain Korean pottery and porcelain References External links Media related to Gangjin Kiln Sites at Wikimedia Commons UNESCO "World Heritage In Korea" (PDF).
Each kiln is built semi-underground into the slope of a hill, and are a stepless form of the traditional anagama kiln.
A progressive development in technique has been identified, with more refined pieces being produced by about 1240.
The kiln is located beyond the sign and is a large rectangular structure built into the hill of approximately 8m long x 3.6m wide x 2.4m high.
NY-367, "Frey House, State Route 5 (Grand Street), Palatine Bridge, Montgomery County, NY", 2 photos, 2 data pages, supplemental material
1.3%), among the 2,267 ballots cast by the township's 2,832 registered voters, for a turnout of 80.0% (vs.
Excavations at the site From 1998 to 2001 the Hangzhou Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology [杭州市文物考古所] excavated the Laohudong (Tiger Cave) Kiln.
Initially the kilns were fired with wood, but during the Northern Song period (960–1127) there was a general switch to coal, easily found in north China, which required a smaller fire box, but the introduction of saggars to protect the pieces from gritty coal ash.
The Ōyamazaki Tile Kiln was located in the southwestern tip of Kyoto Prefecture, at a strategic point for water and land transportation.
The Copper Mine Hotel began operations during the 1860s to support the growing population with both accommodation and as a pub.
The firing chamber and combustion chamber are connected by a barrier with six holes located along its bottom.
Modern saggars are made of alumina ceramic, cordierite ceramic, mullite ceramic silicon carbide and in special cases from zirconia.
4d., to Wony McThomas McKernan, comprising the modern-day townlands of Ned, Doogary and Greaghacholea.
The Kiln Site in Jinseo-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 진서리 요지; Hanja: 扶安鎭西里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Jinseo-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
The earthen basins are believed to be storage places for clay, and the site of the pit dwelling to be a workshop.
It consists of 1000 houses grouped in three sectors: the Village Centre, Lower Peters Village and Upper Peters Village.
However, no remains of the post-Heian period buildings have been confirmed, and no medieval roof tiles have been excavated.
The Hizen Pottery Kiln Sites (肥前陶器窯跡) refers to Edo Period kilns located in the cities of Takeo, Taku and Karatsu, Saga Prefecture, Japan.
Radiocarbon dating of shards found at the site mark it as the northernmost known site at which this type of Sue pottery is known to have been produced.
The Hongō Haniwa Kiln ruins (本郷埴輪窯跡, Hongō haniwa kama ato) is an archaeological site with the ruins of an ancient Kofun period kiln located in what is now the Hongō neighborhood of the city of Fujioka, Gunma Prefecture in the northern Kantō region of Japan.
Hiking, fishing (depending on season), seasonal camping (including RV), birdwatching, and a few horse dog-friendly and mountain biking trails, and shopping at the Mountain Parks Nature Store await visitors to this park.
When it was built is unknown but it has been established that it is likely it was constructed in the mid-1850s.
Various feudal lords, most notably Gotō Ienobu, lord of Takeo, brought potters back from the Korean Peninsula during the Japanese invasion of Korea from 1592-1598, leading to production areas expanding throughout Hizen.
The site has been excavated since 1998 by the Goshogawara Board of Education, and of the 40 kiln sites, 13 were in good preservation and qualified for protection as a National Historic Site.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education Archived 2021-04-27 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese) Hitachinaka City official site (in Japanese)
The manor house in Nagykovácsi was built in first half of the 19th century by the local Teleki family.
West Branch The West Branch, 8.0 miles (12.9 km) long, rises near Kelton and flows south and east through New London Township, gradually turning to the east where it meets the Middle Branch to form the main stem.
These were found to be a type of noborigama kiln, utilizing the natural slope of the hill, with a total length of ten meters.
Overview The Konda Hakuchō site is located in between the Konda Mitoyama Kofun (tomb of Emperor Ōjin) and the Hakayama Kofun in the Furuichi Kofun Cluster, and was the location where the thousands of haniwa used in these, and other burial mounds in the area.
The site consists of nine flat kilns and three climbing kilns arranged in two tiers, the upper tier being the climbing kilns and the lower tier being the flat kilns.
Unearthed relics include eaves tiles, flat tiles, round tiles, and letter tiles, which were dated to the Hakuho period.
At the same time many other kilns around Arita produced wares in the same style, some using the nigoshide body.
Also known as the Waterman Coking Ovens, they were listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) in 1980.
The kilns each have three openings: a top opening, a door at ground level, and a rear window with a ramp for wood wagons.
The pottery failed in the mid-19th century, and the kiln is one of the few remaining elements of the Rockingham manufactory.
Drumhurrin, an Anglicisation of the Gaelic ‘Droim Shoirn’, meaning The Hill-Ridge of the Lime-Kiln or Furnace, is a townland in the civil parish of Templeport, County Cavan, Ireland.
Excavated shards fall within the historical range of the Southern Song (1127-1279) to the Yuan dynasty (1271-1368).
At the beginning of the twentieth century a local historian, Tokizane Mokusui, collected a large amount of Sue ware shards from the vicinity of the ruins and published a research journal, which led to recognition of the existence of the ruins in academia.
Two methods were used for this: 'A la chenille', packed in bags as general cargo via a conveyor belt.
Hurstville Historic District is a nationally recognized historic district located north of Maquoketa, Iowa, United States.
No glazing was used, but some works have a natural whitish glaze caused by ash present within the kiln.
The style was also adapted in Germany and Austria by the Du Paquier manufactory and in France at Chantilly, Mennecy and Saint-Cloud porcelain.
The total (harmful) air emissions produced by wood kilns, including their heat source, can be significant.
Overview In 1180 AD, during the Genpei War of the late Heian period, the great temple of Tōdai-ji was burned down by Heike forces.
The Dodo site contains two nobori-gama kilns built side-by-side on a hill, utilizing a south-facing slope.
Purpose of the Company The objectives of the company were as follows: Manufacture, sale and export of lime, cement and hydraulic products.
The site was the largest production area of Sue ware in western Japan, and the Sue ware from these kilns evolved into the current Bizen ware.
In 1995, he participated in Fire and Clay, a symposium of international clay sculptors held in Iksan.
Four of these sites were collectively designated a National Historic Sites in 1940, and an additional six sites were added in 2005.
Upon extinguishing the fire, the furnace opening and the flue were sealed to starve the kiln of oxygen, causing the iron contained in the clay to turn into a characteristic shade of dark gray.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Tourist Information (in Japanese) Ibaraki town tourism site (in Japanese) Ibaraki Prefectural Board of Education (in Japanese) Ibaraki town official site (in Japanese)
Other lime kilns The Griggsville Landing Lime Kiln is one of only a few old lime kilns preserved across the state of Illinois.
It is estimated that these kilns date from the 6th century to the early 7th century, and supplied haniwa for use in kofun burial mounds across a wide region of the Kantō area.
It is a "single masonry 'perpetual-burning' limekiln", built of limestone blocks on its exterior and with brick in its interior.
Following the Act for the Settlement of Ireland in 1652, land held by supporters of the Irish Rebellion of 1641 and the subsequent Catholic Confederation, was forfeited; this included the Stack's land.
Pinxton is a village and civil parish in Derbyshire on the western boundary of Nottinghamshire, England, just south of the Pinxton Interchange at Junction 28 of the M1 motorway where the A38 road meets the M1.
In the Japanese cases a traditional regional style of pottery, produced at numerous actual kiln sites, is meant.
Many fragments of identical tiles have been excavated from the Tarumi temple ruins, located approximately two kilometers away.
Eastburn–Jeanes Lime Kilns Historic District is a national historic district located near Newark, New Castle County, Delaware.
DE-2, "Eastburn–Jeanes Limekilns, On Papermill Road & on Pike Creek Road, Newark vicinity, New Castle County, DE", 4 photos, 2 measured drawings, 14 data pages
Some other examples are the Lyman Scott House, in Summer Hill and the New Philadelphia Town Site, somewhere near Barry, Illinois.
Kawara (瓦) roof tiles made of fired clay were introduced to Japan from Baekche during the 6th century along with Buddhism.
Demand for bricks grew exponentially as the economy prospered, thus the government integrated all existing kilns in Taiwan in 1913 to form the Taiwan Renga Company (Japanese: 臺灣煉瓦會社打狗工場).
The subsequent owners, the Brameld family, built the Rockingham Kiln, and other structures on the site, in 1815.
It was a major lime supplier in the state of Iowa for masonry building and bridge construction in the Midwest.
The crackle arises during cooling, when the coefficient of expansion differs between the glaze and the body.
They are one type of "cross-draught" kilns, where the flames travel more or less horizontally, rather than up from or down to the floor.
A third expansion occurred around 530 AD, during which time the haniwa for the neighboring Imashirozuka Kofun were made.
The conjoined streams turn southwest and then back to the east as they loop around Bread and Cheese Island, formed between the Red Clay, White Clay, and Hershey Run by a backchannel now filled.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saitama) References External links Hatoyama town home page (in Japanese) Shinuma Kiln Site home page (in Japanese)
It can probably be explained by the fact that as the article was for a Sydney newspaper, reference was made, for ease of identification, to the best known large river in the vicinity.
The first reference to the Pipers Creek limestone deposits was made in November 1831 when Surveyor James Ralfe reported finding a deposit of "superior quality" limestone six miles from the head of Pipers Creek.
The Atsumi Kiln (渥美窯 Atsumigama) is a generic name for a historic kiln that dates from the late Heian period to the Kamakura period (early 12th century until the 13th century).
Therefore, it is generally believed that the Kurisuno tile kiln site was the core of the complex, and that the surrounding tile kilns were only in operation temporarily.
These require some ingenuity of design, since the tyre must fit the shell snugly, but also allow thermal movement.
Imitations Guan ware is "the most frequently copied of all Chinese wares", and the imitations began immediately, at the many southern kilns producing Longquan celadon and other wares.
A corridor from the Middle Gate surrounds the main hall and town pagodas, and connects with the lecture hall.
Fuller after the Nez Perce Indian Reservation was opened for homesteading in 1895, and his home is included.
Australia Lime Kiln Remains, Ipswich Pipers Creek Lime Kilns Raffan's Mill and Brick Bottle Kilns There were a number of lime kilns at Wool Bay, South Australia.
A temporary "bag wall" might be built at the front of the kiln, once loaded, to protect the wares from the direct flames, and enclose the fire.
Next to the park's entrance kiosk, all three known types of redwood trees, the Coast Redwood, the Giant Sequoia, and the Dawn Redwood (the latter two not native to the area) are planted together, providing a unique place to instantly compare and contrast the members of this family of trees.
The earliest mention of his list is from a late Edo period book from 1857 called "Historical Investigation into Domestic Ceramics" (Honchō tōki kōshō).
Latitude and longitude coordinates are provided for many National Register properties and districts; these locations may be seen together in an online map.
The site is approximately a 15-minute walk from Tofurōmae Station on the Nishitetsu Tenjin Ōmuta Line; however, the kiln remains have been backfilled and are lso located under the surface of the reservoir.
The total output from the Minera area quarries was estimated, in 1859, to be around 300,000 tons, with 200,000 tons of this converted to lime.
The southern portion of the stream, near Newark is in the Atlantic Coastal Plain, a relatively flat area that is dotted with large tidal wetlands.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Osaka) References External links Osaka Tourist Information Takatsuki tourism site (in Japanese)
The expedition stopped to build Cantonment Missouri, a winter camp along the river bottom below the bluffs.
There items indicate that in addition to jars, plates, and bottles, the kilns also produced items such as ceramic coffins, Shibi roof ornaments and inkstones.
Semi-subterranean in construction, the groundhog kiln featured a door leading into a long, low passage of brick or rock construction, with a stack or chimney poking out of the ground uphill.
Each pit is built in front of an artificial embankment that joins the hill contour but drops sharply on both sides.
The Continental Clay Brick Plant in Martinsburg, West Virginia includes a number of beehive brick kilns.
The Six Ancient Kilns -JAPAN HERITAGE- The Six Oldest Pottery Centers in Japan 古丹波 その歴史と美 | Old Tamba Pottery Museum Six Ancient Kilns of Japan
During the 570s under the reign of Emperor Bidatsu, the king of Baekche sent six people to Japan skilled in various aspects of Buddhism, including a temple architect.
These same types of tiles have been excavated from the nearby Shimotsuke Yakushi-ji temple ruins and the Shimotsuke Kokubun-ji ruins.
This temperature differential results in mechanical stresses throughout the molten glass, which may be sufficient to cause the material to crack as it cools to ambient temperature or to make it susceptible to cracking during later use, either spontaneously or due to mechanical or thermal shock.
In the churchyard, is the grave of Walter Burke, who was present on board HMS Victory at the battle of Trafalgar and the man who held Nelson in his arms as he died.
Another type known as downdraft bottle oven directed the hot gases back through the kiln before venting them through flues in the base of the oven.
Harris Farm is a historic home and farm complex located at Walkersville, Frederick County, Maryland, United States.
The Muromachi period was a golden age for Suzu ware, but it soon went into decline, and vanished by the time of the Sengoku period, unable to complete with large-scale production in areas such as Tokoname.
Nukata-ji was founded by Prince Shotoku in the Asuka period and claims to be the predecessor of the great complex of Daian-ji in Heijō-kyō.
The Muneyoshi Tile Kiln ruins are located on a slightly elevated slope of a hilly area surrounded by farmland.
Owen McKiernan was only partly successful in his claim as in the Plantation of Ulster, by grant dated 4 June 1611, King James VI and I granted 100 acres or 2 poles (a poll is the local name for townland) of land in Tullyhunco at an annual rent of £1 1s.
As Sue ware items from these kilns have also unearthed from the capitals of Heijō-kyō and Fujiwara-kyō in Nara Prefecture, this suggests that the kiln was not simply a local kiln, but had an official function as well.
Council Bluff: frontier post Fifteen years later, in 1819, President James Monroe dispatched a military expedition (the Yellowstone Expedition, led by Colonel Henry Atkinson) to establish a series of forts along the Missouri.
The design allowed the stack to draw heated air, flames, and ash through the pottery grouped inside and created the draft needed to generate the intense heat required to create stoneware.
It was built in 1808 and consists of a double-pile, center-hall-plan main block with a 1+1⁄2-story, stone kitchen wing added in 1882, and sun porch dated to 1931.
In 1971 the craft technique was designated an Important Intangible Cultural Property by the Japanese government; a double climbing kiln in Arita used for the firing of Kakiemon has also been designated a National Historic Site.
Characteristics The kilns were normally made of brick, and are one type of "cross-draught" kilns, where the flames travel more or less horizontally, rather than up from or down to the floor.
Alexander Emanuel Agassiz purchased most of Day's collection (over 4 short tons (3.6 t)) for the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University in 1881.
Gallery References External links Media related to Laverstock ware at Wikimedia Commons Photographs of Laverstock ware by Craig Rycroft on Flickr: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
The pottery produced from the site has been found in at archaeological sites to the south in Akita, and Iwate Prefecture and north in Hokkaidō, indicating ongoing trade across the Tsugaru Strait from the earliest times.
A TLUD pyrolyzes organic material, including wood or manure, and uses a reburner to eliminate volatile byproducts of pyrolization.
The south half of the site has been levelled and the perimeter is identifiable only with difficulty.
Site is divided into two roughly equal portions by a field bank running NW-SE, the area SW of which has been levelled.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saitama) References External links Higashimatsuyama City official home page (in Japanese)
Dannemand died at Aastrup on 12 March 1888 and is buried in the graveyard of the local Soderup Church.
Suzu ware products were typically made for everyday use, typically storage pots, water jars, or ribbed mortars used for grating food.
Overview The Funasako kiln ruins are located at the northern end of a hill connected to a spur extending north from the Hiko Mountains.
One of the rarest plants in the world, the dolomite flax (Linum dolomiticum), an ancient breed of shrub, is preserved on a strictly protected 10-acre (40,000 m2) plot in the hills between Nagykovácsi and the neighbouring village of Pilisszentiván.
San Juan Island is the second-largest and most populous of the San Juan Islands in northwestern Washington, United States.
It was in operation from the 1590s to the 1660s and at its height had up to 30 workshops with a round 300 craftsmen.
It may consist of refractory bricks or cast refractory concrete, or may be absent in zones of the kiln that are below approximately 250 °C (482 °F).
Heritage sites in Stellenbosch town Heritage sites near Stellenbosch town See also Cape Dutch architecture Heritage Western Cape Stellenbosch Museum References External links The South African Heritage Resources Information System – Declared Sites
Properties and districts split between multiple jurisdictions display the names of all jurisdictions.
Generally the firing was even across the various parts of the chamber compared to the dragon kiln, but the load far smaller, with saggars perhaps only hundreds of pieces, rather than the tens of thousands a large dragon kiln could take for a single firing.
By observing the smoke and its colour, the charcoal burner knows whether there is too much or too little air.
The Akahogi Tile Kiln site (赤保木瓦窯跡, Akahogi Kawara Kama-ato) is the remains of a late Nara period, early Heian period roof tile and pottery production site located in the Akahogi neighborhood of the city of Takayama, Gifu Prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan.
The site is located in the Irago neighborhood of the city of Tahara, Aichi Prefecture in the Tōkai region of Japan.
Hurst organized the Maquoketa and Hurstville Railroad in 1888 to ship the burned lime instead of hauling it by wagon.
Despite the opposition of many villagers, a housing estate was built over them, which increased the village's population by a large percentage.
Its chief geographical features are small streams, forestry plantations, a dug well and spring wells.
Local people converted the tomb into a lime kiln, and it contained rings, gold, silver, painted vases and bones.
In an excavation conducted in 1989 , the remains of four tile kilns were found, in the form of flat kilns made from hollowed out ground, with a length of 3.3 meters, and a width of 1.1 meters and depth of 1.2 meters.
The American International School of Budapest chose Nagykovácsi as the site for its new campus in 2000.
As a result of archaeological excavations, it was estimated that the kiln ruins were distributed in an area of about four kilometers from east-to-west and about 4.8 km from north-to-south, and there were originally about 500 kilns.
A large Douglas fir, which according to tree ring dating sprouted after 1870, grew from the rubble between Kiln 1 and Kiln 2, severely damaging both kilns.
The transition to Portland cement, which could be used to manufacture mortar superior to lime-based mortar, began the decline of the lime industry after the start of the 20th century.
The temple site is about a 20-minute walk from Tondabayashi Station on the Kintetsu Railway Kintetsu Nagano Line.
In particular, it was discovered that tiles from this site were used at the now-extinct temple of Yōfuku-ji in Nikaidō, Kamakura.
The 32-acre (130,000 m2) Historic District is located within the University of California, Santa Cruz campus, to either side of the main campus entrance.
A unique feature of this kiln was the presence of a second firing box located midway along the loading shelf; a side door would have provided access.
The site is maintained as "Shikinzan Park" and is about a 20-minute walk from Kishibe Station on the JR West Tokaido Main Line.
All of the machinery was in place as were other pieces of equipment used in the brick-making process.
The site is sensitive as it lies adjoining a Site of Special Scientific Interest and the North Downs AONB.
See also National Register of Historic Places listings in Providence County, Rhode Island References 41°53′49.7″N 71°27′33″W 41°55′15.4″N 71°27′13.7″W 41°55′0″N 71°25′37″W
Washington State Ferries serves Friday Harbor, which is San Juan Island's major population center, the San Juan County seat, and the only incorporated town in the islands.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Ibaraki) References External links Ibaraki Prefecture Board of Education official site (in Japanese) Yūki city home page (in Japanese)
The oven itself is inside the hovel and is cylindrical in shape with domed roof and foot (30cm) thick walls.
Fossils of sponge bone needles contained in the clay that rise to the surface during firing, forming white needle-like patterns, distinguish the products from other kiln sites.
This was uneconomical compared to the works across the river at Snodland, and Cuxton and Halling, with its rail connection on the Medway Valley line Peters Village Before 1999, a large area of allotments were situated between the school and the recreation ground.
John King John King is the inventor of a mining safety device, a detaching hook, which successfully completed trials in 1873 at Pinxton No.1 colliery.
He had recently been ennobled by Frederick III in conjunction with the introduction of Absolute monarchy.
It has been known since the early twentieth century as a ruined temple site, as old roof tiles were scattered on ground, but it was not excavated until 1959.
This kiln still exists and is one of three that were purpose-built for lime burning left in the UK: another is located at Langcliffe in Yorkshire, another is located at Llanymynech Limeworks.
In 2011 its population was approximately 1500, which has increased since 2017, with substantial housing development to the south of the village.
These labourers transferred unfired ceramic vessels, or greenware, from drying areas or glost shops into protective fireclay boxes called saggars.
A brick clamp is a traditional method of baking bricks, done by stacking unbaked bricks with fuel under or among them, then igniting the fuel.
External links Hangzhou Southern Song Guan Kiln Museum A Handbook of Chinese Ceramics from The Metropolitan Museum of Art
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Okayama) Irago Tōdai-ji Tile Kiln ruins References External links Okayama city official site Okayama Prefecture site
The risers of the stairs are lined with large pillars, and the upper surface is covered with round tiles and half-cut flat tiles.
Local farmer and philanthropist Caroline Foster has said it is likely that Munsee farmers cultivated corn in the summertime in the fields of the Washington Valley.
The earliest inventory to include Japanese porcelain in Europe was made at Burghley House in 1688; these included a standing elephant with its trunk raised and a model of two wrestlers.
Lime kilns are common to the area for agriculture to counter acidic soils, souterrains are associated with the Iron Age and some nearby metalworks date back to the Bronze Age.
It is now among the last in a region which was dominated by coalmining and limestone mining for generations until the 1960s.
The base of Mount Takekoba, in what is now the city of Takeo, became the main center of production, with about 90 kilns remaining to this day.
The periodic lime kiln is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, a designation it gained in August 1999.
In particular, the semi-mythical Chai ware, and Longquan celadon often feature in earlier groupings, and Jun ware is often omitted.
The haniwa recovered from this location were in a wide variety of styles, including cylindrical, "morning glory-shaped", shield-shaped, horse-shaped, as well as anthropomorphic in the form of a warrior, a figure blowing a whistle, a figure holding a vase, and other configurations.
The jagama (snake kiln or dragon kiln) is related to anagama, noborigama, and waritake kilns, and was used extensively in China since at least the 3rd century CE.
Most of the Sadang-ri kilns date to around the 12th and 13th centuries, although they are in poorer condition, as many of them had been converted to farmland in the past.
The ruins of four tile kilns were confirmed by a survey in 1976 lined up on the northern slope of the plateau, along with a clay excavation pit and the foundations of workshops.
1993 – Heritage assessment report focusing on the industrial archaeological values of the site was commissioned by Blue Circle Cement and completed by Peter Fenwick and Kate Holmes.
This corresponds to the name of a temple in the Shōmonki, a medieval chronicle of the life of Taira no Masakado.
Hasami ware was a major source of revenue for Ōmura Domain, where they produced the biggest quantity of porcelain in the country in the latter Edo period.
Equipment is installed to trap this dust, typically in the form of electrostatic precipitators or bag filters.
See also List of Historic Sites of Japan (Miyagi) References External links Miyagi Prefecture official site Archived 2015-07-08 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)
Following excavations in starting in 1996 it is now thought that the site has been found, as the Laohudong or Tiger Cave Kiln [老虎洞窑] on the outskirts of the city.
Island life San Juan Island is considered a "small town" community, in that it is relatively quiet rural living with few distractions or incidents aside from tourism.
Overview The Suenosue kiln site is located on a southern slope of a hill and is believed to date from the 6th century.
It was produced in many locations around Japan by the 8th century, around the time of the founding of kokubunji national temple system in 741.
References External links History of Hoffman Preston Grange tour site Archived 2018-09-08 at the Wayback Machine Evaluation of Hoffman Kiln Technology
With the archaeological excavation of this large kiln site by the Tahara Town Board of Education in 1964, it became clear that a type of black pottery of unknown origin which had been discovered in many locations in the Tōkai region originated from this location.
Pronunciation The word 'kiln' was originally pronounced 'kil' with the 'n' silent, as is referenced in Webster's Dictionary of 1828 and in English Words as Spoken and Written for Upper Grades by James A.
For additional provincial heritage sites declared by Heritage Western Cape, the provincial heritage resources authority of the Western Cape Province of South Africa, please see the entries at the end of the list.
The combustion chamber for firing roof tiles is 6.15 meters long, and there are 17 stages on which tiles are placed, and there are few kilns in Kyushu that have a combustion chamber with stages.
As can be inferred from the name of the place where it is located, the entire area has long been known as the site of a Sue ware factory from ancient times.
A granite marker reads: Charcoal Kilns were built by Moses Byrne, 1869, to supply the pioneer smelters in the Utah Valley.
The detaching hook prevents a cage raising miners from a shaft from being raised up and over the headstock pulley when raised from a mine shaft.
Weekenders took the train into nearby Blairstown through the 1940s to stay at such places as the North Shore Inn, The Casino, and The Dove Island Inn (now a private home).
Overview The Kosugimaruyama Site located in the southwestern part of the Imizu Hills, in the western part of the Toyama Plain.
This includes many packaging processes: fabrication, cleaning, filling, sealing, combining, labeling, overwrapping, palletizing.
Methods Permanent fastening binds items by driving the staple through the material and into an anvil, a small metal plate that bends the ends, usually inward.
Including the cost of software, peripherals and systems engineering, the annual turnover for robot systems is estimated to be US$48.0 billion in 2018.
Some other food items sealed using ultrasonic welding include candy bar wrappers, frozen food packages and beverage containers.
Overflow pressure fillers are the most popular machines with beverage makers, while gravity filling machines are most cost effective.
The main motor may have frequency control of motor speed to improve speed regulation and save electricity.
Parallel architecture A parallel manipulator is designed so that each chain is usually short, simple and can thus be rigid against unwanted movement, compared to a serial manipulator.
This allows the printer to adjust the intake of label stock so the print aligns correctly with the media.
Welding techniques A number of techniques are used for welding of semi-finished plastic products as given below: Hot gas welding Hot gas welding, also known as hot air welding, is a plastic welding technique using heat.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Media related to Bottling plants at Wikimedia Commons Liquid Filling Lines
Mechanical Mechanical type machines use the toggle system for building up tonnage on the clamps of the machine.
RFID readers These are specialized label printers that print and encode at the same time on RFID transponders (tags) enclosed in paper or printable synthetic materials.
The slimmed-down SIG Beverages unit, manufacturer of PET bottle blow-molding machinery, was sold off to the German company Salzgitter AG in March 2008.
New products like the clearance gauge are able to let even novice users adjust seamers and optimize them, as well as locate problems with broken/damaged tooling, shank/bushing issues, seamer adjustment issues, or broken bearings.
They identified the benefits and reduced costs which came from sharing information about shipments with suppliers, hauliers and end users.
Today this kind of machine, thanks to its high speed and accuracy, has achieved widespread adoption in the packaging industry and is produced worldwide by a number of manufacturers.
Types There are different types of drum handlers available in today's market; forklift attachment, hydraulic drum lifter, mobile drum handler, below-hook drum handler and drum rotator.
Typical staple leg lengths are 1⁄4″, 5⁄16″, 3⁄8″, 1⁄2″, 17⁄32″, and 9⁄16″, or 6, 8, 10, 12, and 14 millimetres.
Skin staples are commonly preshaped into an "M." Pressing the stapler into the skin and applying pressure onto the handle bends the staple through the skin and into the fascia until the two ends almost meet in the middle to form a rectangle.
Operational control software: provides low-level decision-making, such as where to store incoming containers, and where to retrieve them when requested.
Where static control is a factor, special materials designed to either dissipate or conduct electrical charges are used.
The machine constructs plastic bags and stand-up pouches out of a flat roll of film, fills them with product, and seals them.
Inventory Management: Barcodes help smooth inventory processes by allowing quick and accurate tracking of stock levels.
The motion subspace of lower mobility manipulators may be further decomposed into independent (desired) and dependent (concomitant) subspaces: consisting of 'concomitant' or 'parasitic' motion which is undesired motion of the manipulator.
See also Shrink tunnel Shrink wrap Hermetic seal Plastic bag Plastic welding Tensile testing Waxtite References General references Selke, S,.
A disadvantage of the roller lineshaft conveyor is that it can only be used to convey products that span at least three rollers, but rollers can be as small as 17 mm (0.67 in) in diameter and as close together as 18.5 mm (0.73 in).
See also Conveyor systems Conveyor belt Chain conveyor Line shaft References External links Media related to Roller conveyors at Wikimedia Commons
The film may be laminating film, shrink film, agricultural covering film, bags or film for textiles and clothing, and other packaging materials.
Omnidirectional scanners are most familiar through the horizontal scanners in supermarkets, where packages are slid over a glass or sapphire window.
However, this is also to prevent the use of third-party compatible label rolls, a form of digital rights management similar to inkjet printer cartridges and laser printer cartridges containing a chip to prevent the designing and manufacturing of third-party cartridges.
The embossing tape and handheld plastic embossing labeler was invented by David Souza from Oakland, California.
Omnidirectional scanners are also better at reading poorly printed, wrinkled, or even torn barcodes.
The anvil often has two settings: the first, and by far most common, is the reflexive setting, also known as the "permanent" setting.
The labels are also peeled without the natural curl that will happen when pulled from the backing paper with fingers.
Automated goods retrieval for orders: On receipt of orders, the automation system is able to immediately locate goods and retrieve them to a pick-face location.
For removing lead paint temperatures below 590 °C (863 K; 1,094 °F) are used to minimize vaporization.
Cordless scanner (or Wireless scanner) a cordless barcode scanner is operated by a battery fit inside it and is not connected to the electricity mains and transfer data to the connected device like PC.
This would ensure high weighing speed while ensuring that overfilling of the expensive ingredients was negligible.
A thermally compliant print head, in combination with the electrical properties of the ribbon and the correct rheological properties of the ribbon ink are all essential in producing a high-quality printed image.
Today the term is used more broadly for any device which can be plugged in and contribute to the stream of data coming "from the keyboard".
This configuration allows the drum to be emptied without tipping and so reduces the risk of spills and operator injury.
See also Barcode printer Barcode Computer printer Embossing tape SureThing References External links Media related to label printers at Wikimedia Commons
Operation Injection molding machine molds can be fastened in either a horizontal or vertical position.
For example, for more precise guidance, robots often contain machine vision sub-systems acting as their visual sensors, linked to powerful computers or controllers.
Tonnage is required on all machines so that the clamps of the machine do not open due to the injection pressure.
To ensure precise batch sizes and prevent overfilling, modern automated counters incorporate predictive control algorithms.
Increasing the service life of a conveyor system involves: choosing the right conveyor type, the right system design and paying attention to regular maintenance practices.
In row-forming palletizing applications loads are arranged on a row forming area and then moved onto a different area where layer forming takes place.
More sophisticated systems also pre-stretch the film before wrapping by means of fixed/variable gear ratios or other, even more sophisticated means, such as hydraulic ratios which can better take advantage of film "sweet spots", improving performance and film savings.
Depending on the magnitude of the bottling endeavor, there are many different types of bottling machinery available.
Some of the products this machine easily fills are cosmetic creams, heavy sauces, thick shampoo and hair conditioners, honey, hair gels, paste cleaners, and car wax.
Their primary operating function is to join large numbers of paper sheets together in rapid succession.
See also Heat gun References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
This equipment is commonly used in chemical and petroleum industries, as well as industries that require shipping and storing of cylindrical modules.
Personal Property inventory (for insurance and other purposes) code scanned into personal finance software when entering.
The low thermal impact on the materials involved enables a greater number of materials to be welded together.
In a ferromagnetic workpiece, plastics can be induction-welded by formulating them with metallic or ferromagnetic compounds, called susceptors.
For example, a breakfast cereal containing hazelnuts and dried fruit plus two relatively cheap ingredients, could be weighed on a multihead with say eight heads devoted to each of the more expensive components and four heads to each of the other two.
All utilities for blowing containers and for mold cooling are carried through the main shaft or the axle from which the wheel rotates about.
The system operated at a low pressure, which is practically 0.4–0.5 atm below atmosphere, and is utilized mainly in conveying light free flowing materials.
Industrial robotics took off quite quickly in Europe, with both the Swedish–Swiss company ABB Robotics and Germany's KUKA Robotics bringing robots to the market in 1973.
Together with the multi-dimensionality of the signal, this defines a subfield in signal processing as a part of computer vision.
They are often used in kitting conveyor lines to ensure all pieces belonging in the kit are present.
Extended core wrapping is the lowest initial investment stretch wrapping system as no machinery is purchased.
Fragile products Weighers with more shallow angles of descent and various cushioned inserts have made it possible to pack delicate and brittle items such as hand-made chocolates and gourmet biscuits.
In the early 1900s, several devices were developed and patented that punched and folded papers to attach them to each other without a metallic clip.
Other dispensers are stationary and may have sophisticated features to control tape usage and improve ergonomics.
This sort of technology is useful in order to receive accurate data on imperfections on a very large surface.
Certain MicroDry printers can also operate in dye-sublimation mode, using special cartridges and paper.
The mix is filled in a pouch that is made of paper or poly that is formed in a collar and the pouch gets sealed by a series of heaters and dies.
Books, general references Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
The parts are sandwiched between a fixed shaped nest (anvil) and a sonotrode (horn) connected to a transducer, and a ~20-70kHz low-amplitude acoustic vibration is emitted.
It is also often preferred in the assembly of storage media such as flash drives and computer disks because of the high volumes required.
Heat sealing is used for many applications, including heat seal connectors, thermally activated adhesives, film media, plastic ports or foil sealing.
In addition to the conversion of the site (residential, commercial, retail, gastronomy), it is still home to the company's headquarters and a production facility with 200 employees.
In the 1970s, electronic advancements introduced the "electric eye" (photoelectric sensor) to register seeds as they fell through a designated hole, though this still relied on single-file vibratory feeding.
The program in Indonesia (initiated in March 2023) established more than 150 collection points in Jakarta and Greater Jakarta Area in one year.
Use Many everyday items have stick-on labels, which were either applied by a machine or by hand, and most likely were peeled from the backing paper using some sort of label dispenser.
The industrial site at the headquarters in Neuhausen am Rheinfall is located directly on the Rhine Falls.
Variations of this method will extend the cylinder and then use air to blow the label to the product surface (tamp-blow).
Variants Color thermal printers Thermal-printing technology can be used to produce color images by adhering a wax-based ink onto paper.
Hot-plate welding equipment is typically controlled pneumatically, hydraulically, or electrically with servo motors.
Label printers have a wide variety of applications, including supply chain management, retail price marking, packaging labels, blood and laboratory specimen marking, and fixed assets management.
Label dispensers and label applicators are machines built to simplify the process of removing a label from its liner or backing tape.
Railways, Vehicles (1853–1995) The Schweizerische Waggonfabrik ("Swiss Wagon Factory") was founded in 1853 by Friedrich Peyer im Hof, Heinrich Moser, and Johann Conrad Neher.
If one were to hold a strip of used carbon ribbon up to the light, one would see an exact negative of the images that have been printed.
Often forced air is used to improve convection, sometimes focusing the heat on one component of the item.
Sometimes wash down involves rinsing with fresh water; other times it involves use of detergents and other chemicals.
The deflection allows it to traverse the barcode in a reading plane, effectively turning it into a "reading beam." To accommodate stationary items, laser scanners incorporate oscillating mirrors that provide additional deflection perpendicular to the main scanning line.
They are often used in an industrial setting to increase productivity along manufacturing or assembly lines.
Seal strength is not only relevant to opening force and package integrity, but to measuring the packaging processes’ ability to produce consistent seals.
In this method, one user holds the robot's manipulator, while another person enters a command which de-energizes the robot causing it to go into limp.
The workerbot is still the first operative humanoid factory worker worldwide that can be acquired by purchase.
Dymo Corporation is an American manufacturing company of handheld label printers and thermal-transfer printing tape as accessory, embossing tape label makers, and other printers such as CD and DVD labelers and durable medical equipment.
Laminate foils and films often are heat sealed over the top of thermoplastic medical trays, Microtiter (microwell) plates, bottles and containers to seal and/or prevent contamination for medical test devices, sample collection trays and containers used for food products.
The larger wholesale companies have mandated that any product shipped to them have accurate weight checks such that a customer can be confident that they are getting the amount of product for which they paid.
In most cases, there is a trigger from an optical (or ultrasonic) device to signal the passing of a package.
The method of wheel rotation is typically conducted through an electric motor with a "pinion" gear or small gear to or in mesh with a rotating "bull" gear or large gear.
He showed his invention at the 1876 Centennial Exhibition in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where architect Merik Herron helped make the base shape of the staple, and continued to work on this and various other paper fasteners throughout the 1880s.
Draw resonance exists when the film velocity at which solidification occurs is much higher than the velocity of the melted liquid as it exits the die.
A label printer with built-in keyboard and display for stand-alone use (not connected to a separate computer) is often called a label maker.
This type of Cartoning machine is widely used for packaging foodstuffs, confectionery, medicine, cosmetics, sundry goods, etc.
They are used extensively in food-grade applications to convey dry bulk solids where sanitation, washdown, and low maintenance are essential.
For items shorter than 74 mm (2.9 in), the conveyor belt system is generally used as an alternative option.
The area is cleaned of dirt and debris with the force and dissolving power of stream of water projected from a hose.
Impulse heat sealers have heating elements (one or two) of Nichrome placed between a resilient synthetic rubber and a release surface of film or fabric.
Only a few non-Japanese companies ultimately managed to survive in this market, the major ones being: Adept Technology, Stäubli, ABB Robotics, KUKA Robotics and the Italian company Comau.
A barcode printer is a computer peripheral for printing barcode labels or tags that can be attached to, or printed directly on, physical objects.
In packaging, it is used for package fabrication such as forming tubes from flexible materials, attaching plastic closures to package forms, etc.
First developed in the late 1970s, today there are over 70 manufacturers of these types of machines worldwide.
Sortation systems: similar to conveyors but typically with higher capacity and able to divert containers more quickly.
In this position, the legs of the staple are folded outwards, away from the crossbar, resulting in the legs and crossbar being in more or less a straight line.
The SIG P210 pistol was developed in 1937 based on the French Modèle 1935, and was adopted by the Swiss military in 1949 as the "Pistole 49".
Sealing machines: heat sealer, tape, or glue units Security seals, tamper-evident bands, etc equipment Slitting machines, perforating, etc Strapping machines, banding machines, etc.
Their factory in Neuhausen am Rheinfall was originally powered by the nearby Rhine Falls and employed 150 workers, which by the mid-1860s increased to 500 workers.
This plastic is transferred into the mold through the barrel, which applies pressure as the liquid travels to ensure even distribution of plastic into the mold to totally fill the mold.
Many gummed dispensers feature a heater, which is mounted over the feed area to maintain the dispenser's water temperature.
Business areas and locations SIG manufactures aseptic carton packs, bag-in-box packaging and spouted pouches for beverages and food, increasingly based on the world’s first aluminium-layer-free aseptic packs and fully renewable materials.
Care and maintenance A conveyor system is often the lifeline to a company's ability to effectively move its product in a timely fashion.
Tie bars: The primary purpose of tie bars is to stabilize and guide the platens as they are moved to compress the mold.
Label dispensers are generally intended to dispense a label to an operator who manually applies the label to the package.
Wine bottling process The process for bottling wine is largely similar to that for bottling beer, except wine bottles differ in volumes and shapes.
Once the trigger fires, there is a delay set to allow the package to move to the "sweet spot" (center) of the weigh bed to sample the weight.
These machines are labeled "full washdown", and must have every part and component specified to survive the washdown environment.
Medication Administration: Barcodes on medication packaging assist healthcare professionals in ensuring the right medication is given to the right patient at the right dosage.
This can be with uniform thermoplastic monolayers or with materials having several layers, at least one being thermoplastic.
These mirrors function at frequencies that can vary from 0.1 Hz to about 5 Hz, ensuring that barcodes can be read at different orientations.
Other types of heavy-duty roller conveyors are gravity roller conveyors, chain-driven live roller conveyors, pallet accumulation conveyors, multi-strand chain conveyors, and chain and roller transfers.
The take-up hub consists of a bar and a liner holder/clip, which are connected to the motor on a single side-frame.
All the bar codes appearing in the photo are decoded instantly (ImageID patents and code creation tools) or by use of plugins (e.g.
For example, a line that is running with a low average weight can be complemented by another that is running with a high average weight such that the aggregate of the two lines will still comply with rules.
The Petter-Browning patent was a refinement—and John Moses Browning's last design—of the Browning Hi-Power (P35).
There are specific types of palletizers including the row-forming which were introduced in the early 1950s.
Although a wide variety of materials can be conveyed, some of the most common include food items such as beans and nuts, bottles and cans, automotive components, scrap metal, pills and powders, wood and furniture and grain and animal feed.
Software Integration software: this provides overall control of the automation machinery and allows cranes to be connected to conveyors for seamless stock movements.
When combined with a high-speed projector, fast image acquisition allows 3D measurement and feature tracking to be realized.
Business control software: provides higher-level functionality, such as identification of incoming deliveries/stock, scheduling order fulfillment, and assignment of stock to outgoing trailers.
See also Computer printer Label printer References External links Media related to Barcode printer at Wikimedia Commons
Originally developed to replace manual counting and weight-based estimation, these machines have evolved from mechanical vibratory systems to high-speed optical counters utilizing photoelectric sensors, lasers, and machine vision.
A computer can then read the data from the strain gauges and measure if one or more of the pins are being pushed upward.
The ownership of the SIG site, located directly on the Rhine Falls, was transferred to the SIG Charitable Foundation in 2011.
Industries that require a higher output of materials - food and beverage, retail case packaging, pharmaceuticals - typically incorporate these conveyors into their systems over standard vertical conveyors due to their ability to facilitate high throughput.
These results typically lead to a higher confidence level in the quality of the weld joint and process.
This scanning method allows the system to accurately resolve seeds falling closely together, maximizing counting accuracy without sacrificing high throughput.
For the cylinder driven fluid power type, one axis is for vertical motion and the other for horizontal.
Moving from manual operations, through semi-automatic operations to fully automated packaging lines offers advantages to some packagers.
conduction sealing Conduction sealing requires a hard metal plate to make perfect contact with the container being sealed.
This causes the melt to stretch too quickly and the bubble diameter starts to vary along its surface.
A typical robot can, of course make a positional error exceeding that and that could be a problem for the process.
As a result, these staplers tend to be used in work environments where repetitive, large stapling jobs are routine.
Wheel machines are favored for their processing ease, due to having only single (or in some cases, two) parisons, and mechanical repeatability.
Granules and powders While free-flowing, fine-grained powders can be weighed more cheaply by other means (such as cut-gate or linear weighers, or volumetric feeders), granules such as coffee granules and products such as loose tea can be weighed on today’s multiheads.
When the weight is added, the movement of a ferrous material through that coil causes a fluctuation in the coil current proportional to the weight of the object.
An interdisciplinary exchange between biological and computer vision has proven fruitful for both fields.
It consists of four main subsystems: the injection unit, the clamping unit, the drive unit, and control systems.
See also Dymo DiscPainter References External links Media related to DYMO Corporation at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Process Heat sealing is the process of sealing one thermoplastic to another similar thermoplastic using heat and pressure.
One of the conveyors is pivotally hinged to the other conveyor for swinging the attached conveyor away from the remaining conveyor for access to the facing surfaces of the parallel conveyors.
The direct contact method of heat sealing utilizes a constantly heated die or sealing bar to apply heat to a specific contact area or path to seal or weld the thermoplastics together.
To guarantee the advertised number of seeds and avoid under-filling, distributors had to include a safety margin of extra weight in each package.
Carton interface The machinery needs to be able to consistently form, fill, and seal the specific carton of interest.
Feed-Roller: This actually is the first patented method used in the semi-automatic label dispenser to advance the label forward.
On June 1, 1998, CoStar Corporation, the manufacturer of the LabelWriter brand of thermal label printers, was acquired by Esselte Office Products.
Singularities are closely related to the phenomena of gimbal lock, which has a similar root cause of axes becoming lined up.
However, if 10,000 packs a day are being produced, and most are 110 g, 100 kg of product is being lost.
Decks and driveways Washdown is the process of using a stream of water to clean a flat or nearly flat outdoor surface.
In 1975, the Swiss military replaced the P210 with the P220, dubbed the "Pistole 75", which was the first product of a partnership with J.P.
High speed power analysis techniques (voltage and current measurement in near real time) can be used to intercept power delivery from mains to generator or generator to head in order to calculate energy delivered to the foil and the statistical profile of that process.
The second wrist axis then attempts to spin 180° in zero time to maintain the orientation of the end effector.
Products that cannot be moved on traditional roller conveyors can be moved by a multi-strand chain conveyor.
Several systems have been developed which use a heated platen placed on the material; the melted material is then pumped through a heated hose to its destination.
While originally designed for filling creams, gels and lotions these fillers also handle water thin and heavy paste products.
This section outlines some requirements of testing plastic welds as well as the different types of destructive and non-destructive methods that are applicable to plastic welding and go over some of the advantages and disadvantages.
Many also have barcode scanners to allow identification of containers more quickly and accurately than manual keyboard entry.
A Drum handler is a piece of mechanical equipment that is used to securely grip, lift and transport cylindrical modules such as steel drums, barrels, plastic drums and fiber drums.
The paper then passes over the print drum, at which time the image is transferred, or transfixed, to the page.
Beer bottling process Packaging of bottled beer typically involves drawing the product from a holding tank and filling it into bottles in a filling machine (filler), which are then capped, labeled and packed into cases or cartons.
However, wires, microcircuit connections, sheet metal, foils, ribbons and meshes are often joined using ultrasonic welding.
They can be designed in many shapes and sizes, hung from ceilings, raised on mezzanines, operated in ovens or in refrigerators.
Gallery See also Agricultural machinery industry List of agricultural machinery Mechanised agriculture Seed drill (box drill, air drill) References Notes Citations External links Dodder counting machine
Test methods might include: Seal strength per ASTM F88 and F2824 Seal strength testing, also known as peel testing, measures the strength of seals within flexible barrier materials.
Non-destructive testing Visual examination Visual inspection, just like the name implies, is a visual investigation of the weldment.
Friction welding In friction welding, the two parts to be assembled are rubbed together at a lower frequency (typically 100–300 Hz) and higher amplitude (typically 1 to 2 mm (0.039 to 0.079 in)) than ultrasonic welding.
SIG Group AG is a Swiss multinational corporation and one of the biggest manufacturers in the packaging industry.
Some of the more common applications are bulk mailing, manufacturing, packaging, food and beverage, fast food, and photo labs.
Protect workers from health effects brought by dust, toxic/hazardous products and prevent environmental contamination.
Mix-weighing Products containing up to eight components can be mixed on a multihead weigher, very accurately at high speeds.
Controlling movement For a given robot the only parameters necessary to completely locate the end effector (gripper, welding torch, etc.) of the robot are the angles of each of the joints or displacements of the linear axes (or combinations of the two for robot formats such as SCARA).
Offline programming is where the entire cell, the robot and all the machines or instruments in the workspace are mapped graphically.
Logistics and Distribution: Shipping Labels: Barcode printers are essential for creating shipping labels that contain information such as destination, shipping method, and tracking numbers.
History Prior to the development of the tape dispenser, 3M's standard clear scotch tape was sold as a roll, and had to be carefully peeled from the end and cut with scissors.
The process can also be highly automated, provides strict control over dimensional tolerances and does not interfere with the biocompatibility of parts.
Ultrasonics can also be used to weld metals, but are typically limited to small welds of thin, malleable metals such as aluminum, copper, and nickel.
These tools are easier to squeeze and better place pressure at the front of the tool where the staple is ejected.
Robot programming and interfaces The setup or programming of motions and sequences for an industrial robot is typically taught by linking the robot controller to a laptop, desktop computer or (internal or Internet) network.
By contrast, a case erector is equipment for setting-up flat (knocked-down) corrugated boxes and applying a closure to the bottom flaps.
Dymo was acquired by Esselte in 1978, and battery-powered printers became a major product after 1990.
Unlike the forklift attachments, mobile drum handlers have built in wheels so you can easily maneuver it anywhere.
Elmer and Elsie were often labeled as tortoises because of how they were shaped and the manner in which they moved.
Automation Packaging operations can be designed for variable package sizes and forms or for handling only uniform packages, where the machinery or packaging line is adjustable between production runs.
See also Drott Manufacturing Company References External links Media related to Tracked loaders at Wikimedia Commons
Ethiopia: 200 T-54s and 200 T-55s were ordered in 1977 from the Soviet Union and delivered between 1977 and 1978 (the T-54s were previously in Soviet service while the T-55s were possibly previously in Soviet service).
Specifications The Caterpillar Sixty was powered by a four-cylinder, overhead valve gasoline engine that produced 60 horsepower (45 kW) at the belt and 35 horsepower (26 kW) at the drawbar.
Ship-to-shore crane elements Lateral movement system: A combination of two sets of typically ten rail wheels.
Sparks flying out of the boiler stack above him would sometimes set his clothing on fire; some steersmen earned enough money to purchase fire-resistant leather gear.
In October 2022, Slovenia donated 28 M-55S to Ukraine and received in return from Germany 40 transport vehicles.
Talus MB-764 is a four-wheel drive launch tractor which was specifically designed for the RNLI, to launch and recover inflatable inshore lifeboats from beach and shorebased launched lifeboat stations.
Specifications and History Built by Ransomes & Rapier and named after the winning horse of the 1957 Grand National, it began work in a Rutland iron ore quarry belonging to the United Steel Companies (Ore Mining Branch) that year.
Other versions that did not see active service were equipped with anti-mine ploughs, mine rollers, or special demolition charges to destroy reinforced concrete walls.
Heap leaching entails constructing stacks of crushed ore, through which a solvent is passed to extract valuable materials.
This was the same layout as the Tetrarch light tank, which Vickers-Armstrongs had developed in the 1930s.
In September 2018, Krone unveiled its new large forage harvester series with the BiG X 680, 780, 880, and 1180 models, which replaced the old series.
In 2005, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences presented Academy Awards to Horst Burbulla, Gyula Mester and Keith Edwards for the invention and development of the Technocrane.
and around the world, but they would no longer compete in the same market segment as the larger four-wheel row-crop designs.
The Swiss army used their Unimog 2010s as artillery tractors, combat engineer vehicles and aircraft tractors.
In 1991, the Fresno scraper was designated as an International Historic Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
High-tensile steel was selected instead of aluminum because trailer weight reduction was not a priority for HMTs, which have their own payload capacity independent of the ballast tractor.
Since its official presentation in 1998, the drive, technology and equipment of the Fendt 700 Vario have been consistently further developed.
Bucyrus Erie Marion Steam Shovel Dredge Company Moore Speedcrane (later Manitowoc Cranes) Northwest Shovels Thew Automatic Shovel Co.
With Contributions From Many Of The Leading Tractor And Accessory Manufacturers Of The United States, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA: Jensen Printing Company.
For example, from 1955 on there were tests with these very vehicles in order to examine them for their possible applications.
Like many other tractors of the era, its model name came from its horsepower ratings, with 6-12 (or 6/12) meaning 6 hp at the drawbar and 12 hp at the belt pulley.
This allows the pile to be evenly spread out during the reclaiming process and allows for the oldest material in the pile to be reclaimed before the newer material.
The vehicle was required for the then-new Lockheed C-5 Galaxy aircraft, the largest in the USAF's inventory.
The Husky 2G was designed with added high sensitivity detectors, ground-penetrating radar, video optics suites, and remote weapon stations.
Supervisory system A supervisory system is a typical feature of an anti-collision system that covers an entire construction site.
In addition to A-type tractors and B-type tractors, there is also a classification into tractor A and tractor B.
An understanding of what equipment will be used for during the life of the tires is required for proper selection.
Komatsu developed a lengthened Superdozer undercarriage with two additional rollers per side to reduce wear, a step that Caterpillar avoided for their Carrydozer machines.
The tractor is a highly modified version of the standard 95 bhp Fowler Challenger III diesel crawler tractor, manufactured by John Fowler & Co.
The Casspir Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle was developed for the SADF after 1980; this was the inspiration for the American and other military MRAPV program and the basis for some of the program's vehicles.
A Temperley transporter is an early form of overhead crane invented by John Ridley Temperley in 1892.
This allows the excavator to rotate 360 degrees, providing excellent maneuverability and the ability to dig, load, and place material from a single position.
Creating technology that stays safe in all scenarios where failure could possibly occur takes a lot of programming and time.
History The factory belonged to Etablissements Decauville ainé, a French manufacturer focussing on the production and sales of narrow gauge railway material.
The Profi Trac 5000 TVL has a ZF WSK 400 clutch unit that contains both a hydraulic torque converter, and a dry clutch.
At the time of its construction Sundew was the largest walking dragline in the world, weighing 1,675 long tons (1,702 t).
Hydraulic hammer A hydraulic hammer is a modern type of piling hammer used instead of diesel and air hammers for driving steel pipe, precast concrete, and timber piles.
The chassis and automotive components remain the same, although the Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle carries specialist equipment.
United Kingdom British Army: common order signed with Germany in October 2025 to replace the existing M3 fleet.
They can be quite large like those equipping Hulett cranes, used to discharge ore out of cargo ships in harbours or very small such as those used by deep-sea exploration vehicles.
In November 2018, a number of enhancements were introduced and announced for the current D11T/D11T CD machines.
Larger models followed the successful 5760, culminating in the mid-60s with the gigantic 12,700-ton Marion 6360, nicknamed The Captain.
Current developments Israel is forming a fourth Combat Engineer Battalion that will specialize in dealing with roadside bombs, mines and booby traps.
The company, which entered the market with only two models, was later able to offer 46 different models between 50 and 110 hp, to potential customers in different countries.
The MAZ-529 (МАЗ-529) is a uniaxial tractor designed by the Soviet vehicle manufacturer Minsky Automobilny Zavod (MAZ), which started production in 1959.
The 163–225 hp (ECE R24) tractor containing a John Deere engine and the Hexashift transmission with four ranges and six powershift stages.
Military use They were widely used by the British, French and American armies in the First World War for hauling heavy artillery including the BL 9.2-inch howitzer and the BL 8-inch howitzer.
The company moved its manufacturing from the old Fundary Building between the MK and T railway and Santa Fe railway crossing to the Jenkins building at 209 West Central Avenue in August and began to undertake general repair work on tractors and motor vehicles to supplement its income.
Initially, a guard was installed on the hood sides for safety while the engine was serviced, but it was later removed.
Other notable features were the rear-mounted drivetrain (there was no engine on the front module) and a hydrostatic transmission, with hydraulic wheel motors.
The platform is integrated with pulse induction metal detector panels and overpass tires that enable operators to regulate tire air pressure in order to reduce the risk of initiating land mines without causing detonation.
The smaller cranes start at around 50 tons in lifting capacity, with the largest being able to lift 20,000 tons.
At the factory Aulnay the last Decauville steam locomotives were built for the lignite mines of Yugoslavia.
The TaxiBot, developed by the Lahav Division of Israel Aerospace Industries, is a semi-robotic, towbarless aircraft tractor.
The tractor is produced by the British company of Clayton Engineering Limited who are based in Knighton, Powys.
Le Tourneau-Westinghouse offered three variants in the 15-short-ton (14 t) class: XM437 Cargo, XM438 Tanker, and XM554 Wrecker.
Bucher aircraft tractor) was that in these, the aircraft could be suspended during the journey of the towing hook to keep the time between leaving the cavern and the lift off of the Mirage short.
Its design was based on the South African RG-31 Charger class of light-armored vehicle, intended as a reconnaissance, forward command and control, and urban operations vehicle for homeland security missions.
In 1934, The military finally commissioned the K TL4, a KTL with extended wheelbase, which was still slow for that usage.
Talus MB-4H is a four-wheel-drive launch tractor which was specifically designed for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI), to launch and recover inshore lifeboats from beach launched lifeboat stations.
References External links Historical Construction Equipment Association National Construction Equipment Museum - Discover Ohio Information about the museum's holdings and visitation Ohio Traveler - article about the museum
Between 29 August to 15 September 2003, Bagger 1473 was moved approximately 8.5 kilometres (5.3 mi) from the Meuro mine to near the EuroSpeedway Lausitz, where it would serve as a monument to the area's former lignite mining.
The 120 horsepower (89 kW) model had a tiller-type steering wheel at the front that was usually covered.
1995 – The National Commission for the Certification of Crane Operators (NCCCO) is established by the crane and lifting industry as a nonprofit organization to develop a certification program for crane operators.
The MAZ-538 (Russian: МАЗ-538) is a heavy four-wheeled bulldozer which was designed and built in the Minskyi Avtomobilnyi Zavod from the 1955 to 1990 model years, used for the Soviet armed forces.
The remainder of the W-6 drivetrain was similar to the W-4's, but the tractor was heavier at 4,800 pounds (2,200 kg).
The crawler track speed restriction was a problem, and the next version used steel wheels for improved speed.
Design restrictions and specifications The maximum design speed of an A-class tractor on a horizontal road surface may not exceed 30 km/h (±10%).
Past themes have includes "Rare tractors and tractor development" (2012), "Rare tractors" (2011), and "Swedish tractors" (2010) which was supplemented by tractors borrowed from a Swedish collector.
BTS-4BM - Experimental version of the BTS-4B with the capacity to winch over the front of the vehicle.
A pipelayer can also be equipped with accessories: crane (used to lift and place pipeline elements in a trench) dragline (used to backfill a trench) rammer (used to compact the soil in an excavation).
Because of greater diameter of projectile cradle ring of the Basket-type, T-64 and later T-80 have a higher limit to the maximum length of armour-piercing fin-stabilized discarding sabot (APFSDS) projectiles, providing superior anti-armour performance relative to shorter projectiles used by T-72.
Right hand left = Bucket curl in (closed) Right hand right = Bucket curl out (dump) Right hand forward = Main Boom down.
While the engine of the Type 82 is located in the middle section of the vehicle, the Type 87's Isuzu 10PBI four-stroke V10 liquid-cooled diesel engine has been moved to the right rear of the vehicle.
Versions Logging arch A device similar to a skip tongue log skidder except that it is made of steel, including the spoked wheels Cable skidders On a cable skidder, the cable is reeled out and attached to a pull of cut timber, then the winch pulls the load toward the skidder.
History and development In cooperation with AEG built MOWAG 37 aircraft tug named Flz Sch 4x2 for the Swiss Air Force.
Starting in the 1960s, Cub engines steadily increased power with higher rated RPM's, peaking at 15 horsepower (11 kW) for the International Cub and 154 Lo-Boy by 1975, and 18 horsepower (13 kW) for the 185 and 184 Lo-Boys.
It also features a 260 horse power (194 kW) engine, air suspension, anti-roll bars and a forward mounted cab.
When off-loading a ship, the grab may be more efficient if designed with a low-profile extended body which enables reaching under the ship's hatches, negating any need to centre the product with human and machinery access.
Electric conversions The unique design of the Model G lends itself extremely well to electric vehicle conversion; a small DC electric motor replaces the original engine and bolts directly to the transmission housing through a commercially available adapter plate.
The second section is a separate tracked compartment which essentially holds the crane's counterweight in total.
Technical data The bucket wheel excavator had a power of 5555 kW during operation and was supplied with a 6 kV power cable.
This method of launching gives the bridgelayer a low silhouette which makes it less vulnerable to detection and destruction.
These costs are as follows: Depreciation can be calculated several ways, the simplest is the straight-line method.
Cheetah was submitted to the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) competition but was officially rejected from the program in August 2008.
Its global market share for both cut-to-length and full tree equipment was very strong shortly after the acquisition.
Attempting to free a tangled shirt sleeve from the knob may cause the driver to lose control of the car.
The innovative operating system Variotronic, which was introduced with the first 700 Vario generation in 1998, has been awarded internationally.
IDF D9 bulldozers were used during the Second Intifada (2000–2005) to demolish Palestinian properties and clear improvised explosive devices.
Mine-resistant ambush protected vehicle (MRAPV), also known as MRAP vehicle, is a type of armoured personnel carrier that is designed specifically to withstand the impact of land mines, improvised explosive device (IED) attacks, and ambushes.
References External links MoAZ home page in English Belarusian Machine Building: Once a Nation's Pride, Now a Burden?
These vehicles should not be confused with single axle tractors, even if they also have only one axis and are used as a tractor for attachments.
The engine and cab received some modifications and the front axle reinforced to integrate the 4x4 transmission.
Early units, with a Cat D333 engine, were multi-fuel, but later ones, with the D333C powerplant, were diesel only.
A central 15 ton travelling gantry crane was also provided, for lifting machinery along the centreline of the hull.
When it was built, in 1947 to repair battleships and aircraft carriers, it was the largest crane in the world.
In 1999, equipment manufacturers created a trade association, Volumetric Mixer Manufacturers Bureau (VMMB).
Latvia (4) Latvian Army: ordered in 2021 through a US funding (USD $22 million), it entered service in 2025.
The KD 211 Z is a two-cylinder, naturally aspirated four-stroke Diesel engine with a 85 mm (3.3 in) bore and a 110 mm (4.3 in) stroke, resulting in a displacement of about 1.25 dm3 (76 in3).
Unfortunately that proposition was also suspiciously similar to that of the Moline Universal tractor, which had been on the market for about 2 years before the Allis 6-12 appeared.
There are bullet-proof tires 16.00R20 with explosion inserts diverting the blast wave, with automatic pumping of air and controlled pressure to 4.5 atmospheres.
The body supports the jib (UK; North America: boom) and provides all the lifting and operating mechanisms; on larger cranes, an operator's cabin is usually provided.
As urban job sites grew tighter and more regulated, the demand for nimble, multi-use equipment like skid steers continued to rise.
The specification complies with DVLA legislation, allowing the tractor to be used on public highways.
Images Implements and hydromechanical work tools Traction: Off-the-road tires and tracks Heavy equipment requires specialized tires for various construction applications.
France Following the Russian Revolution, Kégresse returned to his native France, where the system was used on Citroën cars between 1921 and 1937 for off-road and military vehicles.
Work on large ships then took place in a large dry dock at the end of the Musgrave channel on the south-eastern side of Queen's Island, served by a pair of Goliath cranes, Samson and Goliath.
International Germany Road maintenance depots in Germany are known as Straßenmeisterei or Autobahnmeisterei.
Downhill grades were the most dangerous, where ice allowed the sleds to accelerate faster than the engine.
After that, practical testing commended until the Type 89 was accepted into service and type classified in 1989.
Unlike derricks, sheers need no lateral support, and only require either a foreguy and an aftguy or a martingale and a topping lift.
Some excavators have the possibility to change the operating mode from SAE to ISO and from ISO to SAE.
This compact machine was self-propelled and wheeled, making it highly maneuverable and suitable for urban construction projects.
ArmaTrac is the tractor brand of Erkunt Tractor, the tractor division of the Turkish Erkunt group owned by the Indian giant Mahindra & Mahindra.
The torque is transmitted to the mechanical five speed gearbox with a single disc dry clutch; only the rear wheels are driven.
Models In total, there exist eight different models of the Unimog 2010, however, only five were ever built.
The museum also has an area for children where they can play with toy tractors while their parents visit the museum.
The Massey-Harris Model 81 was a two-plow small-farm tractor built by Massey-Harris (later Massey Ferguson) from 1941 to 1948.
A group of employees was locked indoors by OJSC Belaz to prevent them from joining the other protesters.
Although not as large as the Big Muskie, the Ursa Major was still a large and substantial excavator.
Both the THS15 scrapers were spotted for sale in used machinery dealers by 2011, and their fate is unknown.
Like its predecessor, the ZT 320 series has a powershift gearbox with three ranges, but the number of gears was upgraded from three to four.
History The construction and use of EPA tractors began in the late 1920s, and they became more common in Sweden in the 1930s.
Multiple units of HMT can be interconnected longitudinally by pins and interconnecting couplings mounted in the center of the chassis in the front and rear.
Recently a prototype Liquifire was uncovered in a Polaris warehouse which would have been one of the first snowmobiles to feature independent front suspension.
These tests must also be routinely audited for the certifying agencies to maintain their accreditation.
Also in 2017, the eDumper, an electric dump truck from Komatsu in cooperation with Kuhn Switzerland and Lithium Storage was presented.
As with the D11R, the D11T Carrydozer can push 57.9 cubic yards (44.3 m3) while the regular D11T can push 45 cubic yards (34 m3) of earth.
Experiments have shown the device could achieve drilling speed of 5 metres per minute through solid rock and up to 100 metres per minute in soil.
History Developments in tower crane design and the increasing complexity of construction sites in the 1970’s and 1980’s led to an increase in the quantity and proximity of tower cranes on construction sites.
Applications A skid-steer loader can sometimes be used in place of a large excavator by digging a hole from the inside.
To conform to the elevation changes for the final grade of the road modern pavers use automatic screed controls, which generally control the screed's angle of attack from information gathered from a grade sensor.
WCVs themselves incorporate a compacting mechanism which is used to increase the payload of the vehicle and reduce the number of times it has to empty.
Hydraulic excavators usually couple engine power to (commonly) three hydraulic pumps rather than to mechanical drivetrains.
Uses On land Shear legs are a lifting device related to the gin pole, derrick and tripod (lifting device).
However rip-rap, heavy rock, and asphalt can be hauled if built with the appropriate strength steels.
It was intended as part of Force Protection's armoured military vehicle line-up, which includes the MRAP-class of Buffalo and Cougar vehicles and the Ocelot light protected patrol vehicle (LPPV).
Reclaimer types Bucket wheel reclaimers use "bucket wheels" to remove material from the pile they are reclaiming.
The equipment was developed and produced for the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) by the Turkish company FNSS Defence Systems.
In some locales such as Northern Europe, Canada, and places in the United States, graders are often used in municipal and residential snow removal.
Engine modifications Compression ratio Because TVO has a lower octane rating than petrol, the engine needs a lower compression ratio.
The New Holland TC45 is a four-wheel drive compact tractor, adapted to suit the launch and recovery requirements for some of the RNLI's inflatable inshore lifeboats from beach and shore-based lifeboat stations.
It mounted a front jib with a 7.5 ton capacity, a rear jib rated for 15 ton and a winch that could pull 25 tons.
The first D575A-2 SD Super Dozer was purchased and placed into service by the Princess Beverly Coal Co.
In 1999, the Society of Camera Operators (S.O.C.) presented their technical achievement award to Technovision, Gyula Mester and Keith Edwards for the "First Telescopic Camera Crane" and for their significant contributions to the Art, Craft and Safety of the Camera Operator.
Shannon Launch and Recovery System (SLARS) is a custom designed tractor and trailer specifically designed for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) to launch and recover Shannon-class lifeboats.
Reclaimers are made up of a bucket-wheel, a counterweight boom, and a rocker; they also use a conveyor system to move any material reclaimed from the boom to its specific pile.
These were used for transporting the tank Pz 55/57 Centurion tank, thus reaching the total weight of 104 tons.
The first step by the South African Defence Force (SADF) was the Bosvark, a Unimog fitted with a shallow mine-deflecting tub on the chassis to protect the crew.
However, in Kentucky, a community awareness campaign did appear to increase interest in ROPS installation.
By raising the dozer blade and using its scraper blade, the ACE can fill itself with ballast to improve dozing efficiency.
The BiG X 1180 is available with an automatic adjustment of the counter blade, allowing the driver to adjust it from the cab.
As the Goers were surplused accordingly, it was done so under a demilitarization order similar to that of the M151 jeep.
A single-function boom type has two hydraulic cylinders, only allowing the boom to lower in one position.
The six-speed versions of the gearbox have an additional 1.5 km/h crawler gear below first gear, but are otherwise identical to the five-speed units, i.e.
In water hoisting In energy production The bucket wheel design is also used to capture the water energy in water-wheels or water turbines like Pelton wheels.
The minimum diameter of the pulley is restricted by the ratio of the pulley diameter to the rope diameter, the strands of the wire rope being subjected to fatigue bending stresses if the pulley is too small, giving premature failure.
Bulletproof exceed the highest demands on available GOST (GOST R 51136 and GOST R 50963), in which the highest level - a fire of armor-piercing bullets B-32, 7.62 × 54 mm from the SVD.
The commander sat behind and between the bow gunner and driver, while the gunner sat behind and to the right of the commander, operating a 0.5 in (12.7 mm) M2 Browning machine gun mounted of the vehicle's roof.
The 960E-1 has been Komatsu's largest, highest capacity haul truck, offering a payload capacity of up to 360 short tons (327 t).
Able to haul life-boat and carriage to the water, which at low water may be several miles at some stations.
The gunner has the Fotona SGS-55 two-axis stabilized day-and-night sight with an integral laser rangefinder.
Melton Sales and Service of Bordentown, New Jersey currently has this contract in which three variants of the U-30 tow tractor are overhauled.
1942–1945): Four-wheel-drive tractor, based on Bonham Power Horse design See also List of Allis-Chalmers engines References Swinford, Norm (1994).
The machine is adapted for air transport by Lockheed C-130 Hercules aircraft and for rail transport.
As the Diamond T Model 980 was later adopted by the US, the DFXE was one of the few diesel engines used by US tactical trucks during World War II.
The Latil H14 TL10 is an all-wheel drive agricultural and forestry tractor produced by Latil and later Saviem from 1947 to 1962 through various evolutions.
The DB120 needs a GPS (satellite navigation) system to guide it as there are no row markers to indicate where to position the tractor/planter.
A similar incident occurred in June 2016, when a sink-hole opened up in Rideau Street during further construction of the tunnel, and filled with water up to a depth of three metres.
Currently its members include (in alphabetical order): Bay-Lynx, Cemen Tech, Holcombe Mixers, ProAll Reimer Mixers, and Zimmerman Ind, Inc.
The expansion continues, as the first subsidiary, Ponsse AB, is established in Västerås, Sweden, in 1994.
This was a "ground up" new platform designed to replace the "Prior" or "Hundred Series" Fords built from 1955 through 1964.
It weighed about 18,000 pounds (8,200 kg), and was developed in direct response to a request for a heavy artillery tractor.
Belgium The FN-Kégresse 3T was a half-track vehicle used by Belgian armed forces as an artillery tractor between 1934 and 1940.
During the same year, a second model (MK2) was released, featuring a more advanced hydraulic system.
It premiered at the South by Southwest film festival in March 2019, and to limited theatres and on Netflix on February 28, 2020.
SPATGM version The anti-tank version is equipped with two rooftop quad tube launchers for the Kornet-EM ATGM.
The pins are inserted into opposing holes that are drilled into the top of the stone at about 15° from vertical.
Taiwan Republic of China Army: the M3G is in service in the armed forces, but the quantity is unknown.
Even in 1956, the Soviet automobile industry was already so specialized that the complete train was no longer manufactured by MAZ.
In case of damage by mines, individual suspension and wheel units could be replaced relatively easily.
The overburden can also be transferred directly to a cross-pit Spreader, which reaches across the pit and scatters overburden at the dumping ground.
End of production By the late 1960s several companies had developed single-engined tractors capable of producing over 100 hp (70 kW), this competition and the need for Doe to develop and test a approved safety rollover cab put the Doe out of production after over 300 had been built.
In front, it connects to the front axle, which is either a pivoted but otherwise unsprung rigid dead (ZT 320) or live (ZT 323) axle.
However, the Allis-Chalmers Model G, introduced two decades later, was an interesting design that in some respects echoed the concept of the 6-12, albeit now "facing the other way", with the implement leading and the motorized drive unit now pushing rather than pulling.
The way the sections can twist in relation to each other and the way the vehicle steers, making the back tires follow the same path as the front tires, provide for excellent off-road capabilities in combination with all-wheel drive.
Some automobile models have begun to adopt the phrase, substituting system for structure in the ROPS acronym, notably the Volvo C70 convertible models, and Jaguar XK.
Skid steer loaders can use the universal mounting system; however, most manufacturers typically offer skid steer snow pushers with a universally accepted quick-attach system.
United States (around 1,600) In 2005, JCB was selected to produce what at the time was estimated to be 636 machines for $209 million.
It is also one of the largest ground vehicles in current operation, and – by its official production in 2013 – became the largest self-propelled ground vehicle by gross size, beating out the NASA crawler-transporters.
This machine features some unusual design concepts, including an adjustable cutting edge on the bowl to reduce friction when loading.
At the end of the 1960s, demand for Krone agricultural machinery decreased due to a diminishing number of farmers in Germany.
An underground rocket or rocket drill is a device for rapidly drilling holes through soil and rock of varying composition at rates up to 1 metre per second by utilising supersonic jets of hot gases.
All of the following fleet details are referenced to the 2026 Lifeboat Enthusiast Society Handbook, with information retrieved directly from RNLI records.
The KamAZ Typhoon has been used by the Russians in the Russo-Ukrainian War with at least 28 KamAZ-63968 Typhoon and 11 K-53949 Typhoon-K being destroyed, damaged, abandoned and captured as of 12 February 2025.
Optional transmissions were a 4-speed, 6-speed (3-speed with high and low), 8-speed (4-speed with high and low) and a 10-speed 'Select O Speed' power shift transmission.
The tractor's engine was a new design and, for the time, offered excellent performance for its displacement.
Standard front wheels were 5.5X16 and two options were available for the rear wheels - either 13.6X28 or 14.9X24.
Operation The Shannon launch and recovery system (SLARS) was developed to launch and recover the 18-tonne Shannon-class RNLI lifeboat.
The dam is 135 m (443 ft) tall on its upstream face and 200 m (656 ft) tall on its downstream face; the height at its axis is 160 m (525 ft).
The average wheat lamp uses a three to five watt bulb which will typically operate for five to 16 hours depending on the amp-hour capacity of the battery and the current draw of the bulb being used.
Any higher cost setups often are housed inside high-cube containers which may contain inside lighting, air conditioning, heating, and other amenities and add-ons which may not directly affect the effectiveness of the simulation training.
Purchase of additional Garratt locomotives was briefly considered in 1958 but cancelled due to the upcoming track gauge conversion to 3 ft 6 in (1,067 mm) narrow gauge.
The buckets itself is reinforced by 5 to 10 mm steel plates to prevent deformation and wear-and-tear.
Survivors The National Coal Mining Museum for England has a hazel basket type Corf from William Pit near Whitehaven.
A Crushing plant is one-stop crushing installation, which can be used for rock crushing, garbage crushing, building materials crushing and other similar operations.
References Attribution This Wikipedia article was originally based on "The Queensland heritage register" published by the State of Queensland under CC-BY 3.0 AU licence (accessed on 7 July 2014, archived on 8 October 2014).
Center Rock made headlines in 2002 when its equipment was instrumental in the Quecreek Mine Rescue in Pennsylvania, in which nine miners were rescued after being trapped for 78 hours in a flooded mine.
Original cart rails, electrical lines and even an operational pneumatic drill recovered from the mine may be viewed.
In August 2022, the business area Sandvik materials technology, which included tubes, strip steel, medical wires and Kanthal-brand heating technology products, was spun off as a separate company, publicly listed at Nasdaq Stockholm.
Such mechanically deformed anvils have been found at numerous Roman silver and gold mining sites in Western Europe, including at Dolaucothi (Wales), and on the Iberian Peninsula, where the datable examples are from the 1st and 2nd century AD.
They conduct primarily above ground drilling activities, including all phases of core drilling, reverse circulation, dual tube, hammer and rotary air-blast methods.
Small loaders, such as the GEHL or Manitou Skid Steer are suitable to work inside buildings and on high floors.
The area around the mill is forested, though to the east it is sparse within the 150-foot setback from the highway.
In the presence of firedamp the explosive mixture is drawn through two gauzes (cylinder and shelf), burnt and then within the chimney are only burnt gases, not explosive mixture.
John Deere manufactures a semi-curved loader design that does not feature the one piece curved arm, but also is not of the traditional two piece design.
A rocker box (also known as a cradle or a big box) is a gold mining implement for separating alluvial placer gold from sand and gravel which was used in placer mining in the 19th century.
The Sishen–Saldanha railway line, also known as the Ore Export Line (OREX), is an 861-kilometre-long (535 mi) heavy-haul railway line in South Africa.
The Israel Defense Forces added armor plating to the loader to protect it against rocks, stones, molotov cocktails, and light gunfire.
Secondary mineralization Secondary mineralization in tailings involves the formation of new minerals from the alteration or weathering of primary minerals found in mine waste.
Specifications The Type Es 3750 are incredibly immense digging vessels, the largest of its kind according to TAKRAF.
(ООО Фасинг Украина) – Ukraine Mining Equipment and Tools Factory Fasing LLC (OOO Заклады Горного Оборудования и Инструмента Fasing) – Russia Group portfolio diversification companies Fasing Accounting & Consulting Services Ltd.
The shovel originally started work with Southwestern Illinois Coal Corporation, but the owners were soon bought out by Arch Coal.
Last operated by Canadian company Goldcorp, before it became a subsidiary of American company Newmont.
Design The BelAZ 75710 has a conventional two-axle setup but the wheels are doubled, one to an axle, imitating the 1950s International Payhauler 350.
A 1922 Deutz series C XIV F 10 hp diesel locomotive, works number 4224, named Ximpún is also recorded as working on the railway.
Modern blasting machines are battery-powered and operated by key switches and push-buttons, and do not resemble the older designs.
The objective of using a beater (rather than another process like grinding, as many wood-pulp mills do) is to create longer, hydrated, fibrillated fibers.
Gravity - This physical interaction is after material is thrown from the screen causing it to fall to a lower level.
The Rinkō Line (臨港線, Rinkō-sen; "Portside Line") was a Japanese freight only railway line between Harutori and Shireto, all within Kushiro, Hokkaidō.
That could have caused 90,000 cubic metres of mine waste to liquefy and to flow down the Tui stream near to Te Aroha.
Elsevier's Dictionary of Engineering: English/American, German, French, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese/Brazilian.
In an example, if a mouse is on a conveyor of corn, photoanalysis technology would be able to identify the unwanted object and remove it before it contaminates the whole process.
The electrified double track line serves as a major conduit for moving coal produced in Shanxi, Shaanxi, and Inner Mongolia to Qinhuangdao, China's largest coal-exporting seaport, from there coal is shipped to south China and other countries in Asia.
See also P&H Mining Bucyrus International Dragline Excavator Marion Power Shovel Steam shovel Hulett Further reading Extreme Mining Machines - Stripping shovels and walking draglines, by Keith Haddock, pub by MBI, ISBN 0-7603-0918-3 == References ==
Transmin has a strong product development program, primarily focused around the Low Profile Feeder technology where new applications and features are constantly being developed to meet the increasing demand from customers.
The fact that the structure was identified as historically significant was considered sufficient to declare it as protected.
They have been replaced in most applications by hydraulic excavators, but still remain in use for very large-scale operations, where they can be used for the transfer of loose materials or the excavation of soft to semi-hard overburden.
Ultramafic mine tailings are a promising avenue for carbon mineralization, providing both an effective means of carbon sequestration and a way to use waste materials from mining operations.
She and the Army Corps of Engineers dredges USAV Snell and USAV Merritt, dredged an entirely new channel from August 2022 to January 2023.
A stamp mill is just a big mortar & pestle, ore and water are fed in one side, a steam engine lifts the big stampers and they fall on the ore by gravity.
The Insley Manufacturing Company produced heavy construction equipment, and was based in Indianapolis, Indiana.
The underground mine employed up to 2,000 workers, or about every fourth worker in the city of Miliana.
The board of directors is fully independent and is made up of non-employee directors selected from outside the company.
Varieties Mining simulator setups can range in size and features, which relates to the price and fidelity of the product.
Stephenson had convinced himself of the validity of this approach by his experiments with candles near lit blowers: as lit candles were placed upwind of the blower, the blower flame grew duller; with enough upwind candles, the blower flame went out.
The lamp room keeper was a responsible official who played a key role in tracking personnel underground.
This model also saw the introduction of automatic transmission and instead of a tractor derived cab, a new purpose designed cab.
Such a size would mean that these vehicles would have its own on-board toiletry and kitchenette rooms.
The reservoir's construction began in 1974, and exploitation (and the completion of the reservoir's construction) on February 12, 1977.
The Societe Anonyme des Mines du Zaccar took 1912 one of the first eight-wheel Garratt locomotives in operation.
1919 disaster On 20 October 1919 an accident killed 31 miners, when a metal bracket at the top of a rod broke on the man engine.
From an altitude of 1,295 metres (4,249 ft) at Sishen, the line climbs for 42 kilometres (26 mi) before descending to cross the Orange River about 10 kilometres (6 mi) downstream of Groblershoop.
Kennecott Corporation was using asbestos for preventing fires since copper processing requires very high temperatures.
Towing personnel carriers Some personnel carriers use a heavy duty hydraulic rear hitch that can tow various attachments.
It is traditionally where joints of pipe are assembled, as well as the BHA (bottom hole assembly), drilling bit, and various other tools.
The operator has a conventional steering wheel that actuates hydraulic cylinders that push and pull the tractor relative to the trailer.
The grinding media particles should be substantially larger than the largest pieces of material to be ground.
The Wilfley table, like any wet table, is one of the most metallurgically efficient forms of gravity concentration, being used to treat the smaller, more difficult flow-streams, and to produce finished concentrates from the products of other forms of gravity system.
In 1976, the company opened a head office on Hopkinson Street in Burnie, and the following year it sold its first underground truck, the Elphinstone 79C, which was a modified Caterpillar 769C.
References External links Official Website Media related to Bucyrus International at Wikimedia Commons Bucyrus International SEC Filings
The Barnsley Coal Railway was a short railway which, when fully opened, ran between Stairfoot Junction, on the Mexborough to Barnsley line of the South Yorkshire Railway (SYR) and a triangular junction at Nostell on the line of the West Riding and Grimsby Railway (WR&GR).
The boxhole borer is set up on the lower level, drills a pilot hole as a guide, then drives the reamer bit along the pilot hole from the lower level to the upper.
A Garturk and Garion Railway bill was presented to Parliament in 1829 (though Awdry calls it the Garion and Garturk Railway).
Short distribution time On average, 1.5 seconds is required for the screen process to reach a steady state and for particles to cover the screen.
Basic parts of a power shovel include the track system, cabin, cables, rack, stick, boom foot-pin, saddle block, boom, boom point sheaves and bucket.
GM predicted that when the Titan entered regular production, it would cost approximately US$1.5 million in 1976 (approximately $6.42 million in 2024).
In these stamps the cam is arranged to lift the stamp from the side, so that it causes the stamp to rotate.
Slurry pipelines offer an economic advantage over railroad transport and much less noise disturbance to the environment, particularly when mines are in extremely remote areas.
Moreover, like the Bagger 288, the Bagger 293 cost around 100 million US dollars at the time of its construction with exactly the same construction and assemblage time period of ten years.
The youngest son Ray, the last Armington, retired in 1960 after seven years as General Manager of GM's Euclid Division.
In the autumn of 2009 the last two locomotives and hopper cars were transported to the central workshops at Crișcior for restoration and further use on other railways.
Maintenance & Repair: Ensuring wicks, glasses, meshes, and later, electrical components were in perfect working order to prevent ignition of gases.
The line was constructed in two phases between December 1984 and December 1992, with specifications changed from single-track to double-track during construction.
Mikael Lilius, former chairman of the Board of Metso, is the chairman of the board, and Matti Alahuhta, former chairman of the board of Outotec, is the deputy chairman of the board.
From the railways' point of view, huge capital investment in rolling stock and in infrastructure was being called for at a time when money was limited.
Interwar period In the early 1920s, Hendy's hydraulic mining equipment was used in the regrading of Seattle, described as perhaps the largest such alteration of urban terrain in history.
Steam was largely replaced in the 1970s and 1980s but today two steam locos remain in working order.
First Quantum alleged that ENRC had misled investors by failing to tell them of the disputed ownership.
opened a 6 km line from the coal mine at Harutori to Irifune-cho wharf in 1925/27, with a 3 km line connecting the mine to Higashi-Kushiro opening in 1928.
The Mansfelder Bergwerksbahn is an 11-kilometre (6.8 mi) long 750 mm (2 ft 5+1⁄2 in) gauge heritage railway in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany.
To the west, the 146-foot long mill extends down a west slope in five steps to the mill tailings pond located on what was a bench above the Lake Fork of the San Miguel River.
A gook was a piece of protective headgear worn by bal maidens (female manual labourers in the mining industries of Cornwall and Devon).
On 4 August 1926, a decree was passed, according to which the concession and modification of the operating conditions of the tram from Miliana to Margueritte by the Prefect of Algiers of 24 December 1925 were approved.
Screening bucket The screening bucket is an attachment for the excavators, loaders, skid steers and backhoe loaders that helps the selection of natural material for different purposes at the jobsite.
The table is shaken longitudinally, using a slow forward stroke and a rapid return strike that causes particles to migrate or crawl along the deck parallel to the direction of motion.
As of 2025, the BelAZ 75710 is the truck with the highest payload capacity, 450 metric tons (440 long tons; 500 short tons).
Miners working in thin seams or when undercutting the coal had to lie on their side in cramped conditions.
The European Commission accepted Metso's and Outotec's merger on 13 May 2020 and the company started operations on 1 July 2020.
In response to a vast public outcry in industrial Cape Breton County, the Minority government of Prime Minister Lester Pearson announced J.R.
In 2000, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers added the EIMCO 12B Rocker Shovel Loader of 1938 to its List of Historic Mechanical Engineering Landmarks as reference number 212 out of a total number of 259 objects (as of 2015).
Rail connections Changzhi: Taiyuan–Jiaozuo railway, Shanxi–Henan–Shandong railway Handan: Beijing–Guangzhou railway, Handan–Jinan railway See also List of railways in China == References ==
It gave notice to the Board of Trade, which inspected new lines prior to opening for passenger operation, but the BoT informed the TVR that as passenger operation was not contemplated on the Llancaiach branch, no inspection was necessary.
At Havre-Saint-Pierre, the mineral is loaded aboard bulk carriers and shipped upriver to the port of Sorel-Tracy.
In its original form it is a torpedo-shaped cylinder with a length of 2.5 metres (8.2 ft), developed to transport trapped miners through boreholes after mining accidents.
The Brushy Fork Coal Impoundment, also known as the Brushy Fork Coal Sludge Dam, is a large tailings dam on the Brushy Fork near Marfork in western Raleigh County of West Virginia, United States.
Returning is when the dipper swings back to the bank, and involves lowering the dipper into the track position to close the dipper door.
In 1831–2 the Edinburgh and Dalkeith Railway opened, giving access from pits in the Eskbank and Dalhousie areas to Edinburgh and Leith.
It became the prototype for many similar dredges, and led to a boom in gold dredging in the South Island; in Otago rivers like the Shotover River, Clutha River and the Molyneaux River, and in West Coast rivers like the Grey River (where the last gold dredge worked until 2004).
Having been rebuffed by the E&GR, the Monkland companies decided upon a formal merger, and obtained the necessary sanction by an act of Parliament, the Monkland Railways Act 1848 (11 & 12 Vict.
Background In the last quarter of the nineteenth century there was a considerable upsurge in the coal industry in Yorkshire.
The Geordie lamp continued to be used in the north-east of England through most of the 19th century, until the introduction of electric lighting.
Their products are sold in America under the name RedMax This brand's products of brush trimmers and leaf blowers were sold under many names including Stihl, Echo, Shindaiwa, Toro, among others.
A bank panic in 1893 caused demand for cranes to plummet however, prompting P&H to look for another product line that might help them reduce business risk amid economic downturns.
History Shortly before the scrapping of Big Muskie in 1999, the largest dragline ever built, construction of another ultraheavy dragline excavator commenced.
This prompted the foundation, in 1862, of a new company, Högbo Stål & Jernverks AB, in a place that developed into the town of Sandviken.
In May 2004, the local government requested that the line be maintained as a heritage railway, as more and more tourists became interested in it.
While working, Big Muskie used the equivalent of the power for 27,500 homes, costing tens of thousands of dollars an hour just in power costs and necessitating special agreements with local Ohio power companies to accommodate the extra load.
In this type of mill, the first set of rollers crush the whole kernel, and its output is divided three ways: Flour immediately is sent out the mill, grits without a husk proceed to the last roller, and husk, possibly still containing parts of the seed, go to the second set of rollers.
In 2003, Transmin developed the first 'Low Profile Feeder' a hybrid form of belt feeders and apron feeders which have become the benchmark for hybrid feeders within the industry, having been successfully installed around the world.
Description A stamp mill consists of a set of heavy steel (iron-shod wood in some cases) stamps, loosely held vertically in a frame, in which the stamps can slide up and down.
In 1879 the partners sold shares in the Homestake Mining Company, and listed it on the New York Stock Exchange.
The M&KR altered its track gauge to standard on 26 and 27 July 1847, and on the following day the Airdrie service was able to run through to Glasgow (Queen Street) via Bishopbriggs; the journey now took 45 minutes.
The embankment length is 11.6 km and the average embankment base width is about 260 m from Google Earth.
Description Most haul trucks have a two-axle design, but two well-known models from the 1970s, the 350T Terex Titan and 235T WABCO 3200/B, had three axles.
SCHOPF Maschinenbau GmbH is a German company that produces specialist vehicles for the mining and aviation industries.
Medieval French sources of the years 1116 and 1249 both record the use of mechanised trip hammers used in the forging of wrought iron.
Much of the gold used for the gold leaf dome of the Georgia State Capitol was mined at this mine, which was among the most productive mines in the Georgia Gold Belt.
The mine is located just north of the site of the Consolidated Mine, which is itself north of the Calhoun Mine.
assisted in the rescue of 33 miners trapped for 69 days as a result of the Copiapó mining accident in Chile.
History The first documented use of a bucket chain excavator was in 1859 by Alphonse Couvreux, a French entrepreneur.
Latest developments Most LHDs come equipped with remote control capabilities, which are crucial for clearing materials in areas where the stope lacks top protection, preventing loose muck from falling off.
Accordingly, the Monkland Railways decided (in May 1850) to complete the originally intended through line from Causewayend after all.
The original starter dam was 1,050 m (3,445 ft) in length and when the dam reaches its final height of 240 m (787 ft), it will be 1,300 m (4,265 ft) long.
Re-branding On February 19, 2010, the Terex Unit Rig MT6300AC was re-branded as the Bucyrus MT6300AC when Bucyrus International Inc.
References External links The End of an Era: Hilltop Colliery – Bacup, 1997–2014, The Last Coal Mine in Lancashire, b3tarev3, 15.
The 960-E1 is the first generation of the 960E series of haul trucks and is alternately referred to by Komatsu specifically as the 960E-1 or generally as the 960E.
Between 1969 and 1991, TAKRAF built five very large conveyor bridges of the type F60 of which four are still in operation in lignite mines in Lower Lusatia, and one has been preserved as a visitor attraction.
The closest analogs are Liebherr T 282B, Caterpillar 797F, which can carry the same weight, and BelAZ 75710 with 450 tons payload capacity.
The Bruno Creek Tailings Impoundment is a tailings dam on Bruno Creek, 19 mi (31 km) southwest of Challis in Custer County, Idaho.
They are Bagger 281 (1958), Bagger 285 (1975), Bagger 287 (1976), Bagger 288 (1978), Bagger 291 (1993) and Bagger 293 (1995).
By the time the Chapin Mine closed in 1932, it had produced over 27 million tons of iron ore, the most in the Menominee Iron Range.
The Monkland and Kirkintilloch Railway was opened in 1828, giving access to Monklands pits to Glasgow and Edinburgh via the Forth and Clyde Canal, vastly reducing the cost of carriage.
They were common in gold, silver, and copper mining regions of the US in the latter 19th and early 20th centuries, in operations where the ore was crushed as a prelude to extracting the metals.
Among the projects accomplished at Bath were fitting two lower decks with three-tier pipe-berths which could accommodate 2,170 troops, and expanding the galley, messing, shower, toilet, ventilation, and other facilities to support the troops.
Grain-pounders with pestles, as well as ordinary watermills, are also attested as late as the middle of the fifth century in a monastery founded by Romanus of Condat in the remote Jura region, indicating that the knowledge of trip hammers continued into the early Middle Ages.
The lack of transportation prevented mining development at Springhill until 1870 when the construction of the Intercolonial Railway between Truro and Moncton came through the area.
In 1968 Wabco had become part of American Standard Company (known for bathroom fittings) and then it would become part of Dresser Industries in 1984.
A Hollander beater design consists of a circular or ovoid water raceway with a beater wheel at a single point along the raceway.
In jumbo drills, the driving force of the hydraulic pumps is provided by electric motors and diesel engines.
Under the contract, the company was engaged to manufacture 45 turret and hull assemblies at its Wynyard facility in north-west Tasmania, undertaking steel fabrication, machining and painting before shipment to Hanwha Defence Australia in Geelong for final vehicle assembly.
Churn drills are also called percussion drills, as they function by lifting and dropping a heavy chisel-like bit which breaks the rock as it falls.
These rakes are made with various materials and sizes based on the climate in which the reclaimer operates.
Its main activities are: • Research, development, assembly, installation, selling and hiring of forklift trucks, special vehicles, machines, technological systems for load lifting and moving.
In 2016, Anthony Bamford donated £100,000 to Vote Leave, the official pro-Brexit group, and wrote to JCB's 6,500 staff explaining why he supported the UK leaving the EU.
Around the same time, Hitachi began expanding its business overseas, with the establishment of Hitachi America, Ltd.
In popular culture Despite the older "T-Handle" design no longer being used, this design of blasting machine is most closely associated with Looney Tunes, and the character Wile E.
Attached to the rig floor is a small metal room, the doghouse, where the rig crew can meet, take breaks, and take refuge from the elements during idle times.
The Romaine River Railway began operating in 1949 and is owned and operated by QIT-Fer et Titane, which is a subdivision of the Anglo-Australian company Rio Tinto Group.
This is necessary to ensure consistent (or homogeneous) quality, as well as a constant calorific value of the coal.
A new company, Dome Mines Limited, was capitalized in 1910 to develop the namesake Dome Mine, producing 247 tons of high-grade ore its first year.
The Titan was first shown to the public in October 1974 at the American Mining Congress in Las Vegas, NV.
The Caterpillar 797 is a series of off-highway, ultra class, two-axle, mechanical powertrain haul trucks developed and manufactured in the United States by Caterpillar Inc.
The infiltration line is the pathway through which water can enter in a specific area, and it affects the safety and stability of tailings ponds.
Although the old S&L was essentially shut down in 1972, DEVCO then revised its plans to try and exploit the remaining deposits to the best of its ability.
In the late 1950s, merger negotiations with Dresser Industries yielded no agreement, and the same outcome occurred with Cooper-Bessemer.
These simulators replicate elements of real-world mining operations on surrounding screens displaying three-dimensional imagery, motion platforms, and scale models of typical and atypical mining environments and machinery.
The term is used primarily in the context of electrically operated hoists, but it is apparent that the control systems of many 20th century steam hoists also incorporated controllers of significant complexity.
The slope of the outer part of the embankment is much smaller than that of the inner part, in a ratio of about 4:1.
Traces of individual components can still be located within a small quantity of the mixed material of two or more material types.
The use of the term "machine" dates from early designs that used an electrical generator operated by winding a rotary handle or pushing down a T-handle.
History LiuGong manufactured China's first modernized wheel loader in 1966 and in 1976 produced its first articulated and oversized wheel loaders.
Other contactless fare card systems such as ICOCA and PASMO have been introduced throughout the country since, almost all of which are modelled after Suica and thus mutually compatible.
The intended line to Drax was to be abandoned, but short branch lines to Lofthouse (near Ardsley) on the GNR and Woodlesford on the Midland Railway were added (or modified), so that the proposed network was about nine miles in extent including siding complexes.
Big Brutus, while not the largest electric shovel ever built, is the largest electric shovel still in existence.
A minecart, mine cart, or mine car (or more rarely mine trolley or mine hutch), is a type of rolling stock found on a mine railway, used for transporting ore and materials procured in the process of traditional mining.
Design A typical "capacitive discharge" blasting machine works by charging a capacitor from a battery, then discharging the capacitor through an external circuit, called the firing line, to fire the blasting cap.
Early Geordie lamps had a simple pierced copper cap over the chimney to further restrict the flow and to ensure that the vital spent gas did not escape too quickly.
From being purely a family firm, Thwaites Brothers had a professional managing director by 1895, Arthur Devonshire Ellis.
In 1840, the TVR bought the private Ferndale to Maerdy colliery track and then extended it to Porth in 1849.
It was one of only two Bucyrus-Erie 1950-B shovels built (the other being The Silver Spade) and one of two to use the knee-action crowd licensed from Marion Power Shovel in exchange for Marion's use of Bucyrus-Erie's cable crowd patent.
Customers use these products in the solid waste and recycling industry, and for construction and maintenance of transmission and distribution lines, tree trimming, and foundation drilling applications.
Minimum energy is consumed with the installation of double extended shafts on the motors, which are attached to both the top and bottom eccentric weights.
During this process, a harrow tool is used to cut through the reclaimed material so that the material can be combined.
After the installation of the twenty stamp mill, water supplies were insufficient for efficient operation of the mill.
Logistec sub-contracted operation of the railway to the Société des chemins de fer du Québec (Quebec Railway Corporation), a Quebec-based railway holding company and short-line operating company.
Transmission The 797 series haul trucks are equipped with a rear-axle-mounted, computer-controlled, seven-speed planetary transmission with a separate lock-up torque converter.
The operator, standing on a raised platform to one side of the machine, operates the controls, one lever to drive the machine along the tracks, and another to raise and lower the bucket.
Over the next two years, Modular Mining developed and successfully implemented the DISPATCH system, a computerized fleet management system designed to optimize haul truck assignments to loading and dumping points in an open-pit mine and to produce operating reports during the shift.
See also Miner's habit Miner's cap Mooskappe References Literature Walter Schellhas: Das Arschleder des Bergmanns, in: Sächsische Heimatblätter Heft 6/1987, pp.
Variants Carbide lamp, a lamp that produces and burns acetylene Safety lamp, any of several types of lamp which are designed to be safe to use in coal mines Davy lamp, a safety lamp containing a candle Geordie lamp, a safety lamp Wheat lamp See also Headlamp (outdoor) == References ==
History Roller mills were proposed as early as the 1600s, but practical versions were not implemented until the 1800s.
The market for draglines began shrinking rapidly after the boom of the 1960s and 1970s which led to more mergers.
With a reach of 86 metres (282 ft) and a bucket capacity of 27 long tons (27 t) the machine was able to move a substantial amount of material in a relatively short period.
A blasting mat is a mat usually made of sliced-up rubber tires bound together with ropes, cables or chains.
Caterpillar joint venture (1995–2015) In 1995, Elphinstone entered into a 50/50 joint venture with Caterpillar, forming Caterpillar Elphinstone Pty Ltd.
Namtu is a security area and restrictions are placed on visiting the railway, mines and smelters, except on official tours.
There is also a visitor centre, a short underground tour, and the South West Coast Path leads to Botallack Mine, via a cliff-top footpath.
The 15000 pound (6800 kg) locomotive was named the Pioneer, and by mid 1888, a second electric locomotive was in service at that mine.
The lines of the station were connected to the factory's upper ore tipplers where the iron ore filled cars were shunted in by a locomotive and emptied.
For example, on 13 May 1916 she removed 16,280 cubic yards (12,450 m3) of sand weighing approximately 32,000 tons from the shipping channel.
Attachments can be attached with pins similar to other parts of the arm or with some variety of quick coupler.
On the other hand, cones with tungsten inserts are used in high wear applications, where it is preferable to replace only the inserts and not the entire drill bit.
In 2000, at MINExpo International, Komatsu debuted the 930E-2SE featuring a 3,500 horsepower (2,600 kW) Komatsu SSDA18V170 V-18, twin-turbocharged, diesel engine developed by Industrial Power Alliance, a joint venture between Komatsu and Cummins.
It got the nickname "mine under the sea", because tunnels were driven up to 2.5 km from the cliffs under the sea.
During the accident's investigation, examiner Tom Dolphin determined that Mosley had accidentally fallen off the boom while preparing to jump.
DEVCO in turn created the Devco Railway from the part of former S&L connecting Glace Bay and New Waterford to Sydney; the remaining lines of the former S&L Railway were abandoned.
Mining Photoanalysis in mining operations can provide an automated system that forewarns a company of potential problems with materials, leading to economies and reduced damage caused from over-sized materials.
The Hollander used metal blades and a macerating action to separate the raw material, resulting in shorter cellulose fibers and weaker paper.
Western Kentucky University water tower - In Fall 2004, Caldwell completed the new 2.5-million-US-gallon (9,500 m3) water tank on the Western Kentucky campus.
A granite marker reads: Charcoal Kilns were built by Moses Byrne, 1869, to supply the pioneer smelters in the Utah Valley.
A fin of a heat sink may be considered to be a flat plate with heat flowing in one end and being dissipated into the surrounding fluid as it travels to the other.
However, as there are only 26 connections for the 62 gases and mixtures recognized by the CGA, connections are not unique.
The most common use of Nuclepore filters is in microbiology where they are used to trap cells while removing all other fluids and smaller particles, e.g.
In flashing, vapor carries over droplets of brine, which have to be separated before condensing, otherwise the distillate vapor would be contaminated with salt.
In a fixed matrix regenerator, a single fluid stream has cyclical, reversible flow; it is said to flow "counter-current".
Bulging factor is an engineering term describing the geometry of out-of plane deformations of the surface of a crack on a pressurized fuselage structure.
Notably, several World War II submarines reported that, due to flooding or mechanical failure, they had gone below crush depth, before successfully resurfacing after having the failure repaired or the water pumped out.
A breather valve (pressure-vacuum valve), commonly installed on many fixed roof tanks, allows the tank to operate at a slight internal pressure or vacuum.
"Oxygen compatible" means that internal components must not burn readily or degrade easily in a high pressure oxygen environment.
CH4 + H2O (steam) → CO + 3 H2 Endothermic CO + H2O (steam) → CO2 + H2 Exothermic Autothermal reforming Autothermal reforming (ATR) uses oxygen and carbon dioxide or steam in a reaction with methane to form syngas.
In 1962, 10,000 gallon flexible tanks made of neoprene rubber were used to store fuel oil in Antarctica.
Adjustable skirts may be replaced by a strap net in case the users need to transform a traditional storage tank to a transportable flexible tank.
It is now among the last in a region which was dominated by coalmining and limestone mining for generations until the 1960s.
Stainless steel 316L Stainless steel became industry standard for fittings, piping and controls in gas cabinets and distribution systems in the early 1980s.
The kiln is 27 meters long, starting at 0.8 meters height at its front and 1.97 meters at its back end.
Examples The Cyclone Waste Heat Engine is designed to generate electricity from recovered waste heat energy using a steam cycle.
Plate Heat Exchanger A plate heat exchanger consists of multiple thin metal plates stacked in a compact bundle.
Some common applications of plate columns are distillation, gas-liquid absorption and liquid-liquid extraction.
This change in geometry, or “bulging effect”, significantly increases the stress intensity factor at the crack tips.
Cascades of CSTRs Cascades of CSTRs, also known as a series of CSTRs, are used to decrease the volume of a system.
Cultural Heritage Award In October 2019, the National Heritage Board in Singapore launched the 'Stewards of Singapore's Intangible Cultural Heritage Award', to recognize efforts in preserving cultural practices.
History There are two known major groups of earthenware and celadon kiln sites from the Goryeo period: these in Gangjin County and those in Buan County in North Jeolla Province.
The H14 grade HEPA Filter, known for being able to clean up to 99.99% of the particulate matter, will be used instead, together with a pre-filter and activated carbon.
Electrostatic particle collector To collect the very fine particles a new technology is used in the field of "nano" spray drying.
Types There are two types of air preheaters for use in steam generators in thermal power stations: One is a tubular type built into the boiler flue gas ducting, and the other is a regenerative air preheater.
For much of the Victorian "age of steam", the only material used for boilermaking was the highest grade of wrought iron, with assembly by riveting.
Pinch analysis is a methodology for minimising energy consumption of chemical processes by calculating thermodynamically feasible energy targets (or minimum energy consumption) and achieving them by optimising heat recovery systems, energy supply methods and process operating conditions.
High performance systems can remove very high boiling solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) while keeping sample temperatures below 40 °C at all times.
Capacity to store gas Two features of the cylinder determine its gas carrying capacity: internal volume (water capacity) of the cylinder, cylinder working pressure for nominal capacity, or the actual measured pressure, as the cylinder may not be full.
The SDA separates the asphalt from the feedstock because light hydrocarbons will dissolve aliphatic compounds but not asphaltenes.
These header drums were intended to be partially filled with water and above the water there was a baffle filled space where the boiler's steam and water vapour collected.
A similar failure occurred in 2015 on CRS-7 when the COPV burst, causing the oxygen tank to overpressurize and explode 139 seconds into flight.
Rubber fuel tanks have been viable technology for cars since the late 1950s, but few manufacturers have adopted them.
Safety and standards Because the contents are under pressure and are sometimes hazardous materials, handling bottled gases is regulated.
This effect is due to cavitation, a high speed phenomenon of hydraulic machines caused by the release of vapour bubbles at low pressures.
The idea was subsequently put into practice by his brother, Alexander Prandtl, who made improvements to his brother's design, and exhibited a working butterfat extraction machine in 1875.
A de-asphalter is a unit in a crude oil refinery or bitumen upgrader that separates asphalt from the residuum fraction of crude oil or bitumen.
Testing Various tests and inspections are performed on COPVs, including hydrostatic tests, stress-rupture lifetime, and nondestructive evaluation.
How it works The main difference between turboswing and most common filters is that in turboswing filters the filtering medium is not static.
The following equation, derived from a simple heat balance around the throttling valve or device, is used to predict how much of a single-component liquid is vaporized.
Thermal reactivation (heating in an inert or steam atmosphere at 800–900 °C) restores much of the pore structure but consumes significant energy, while chemical regeneration (e.g.
Properties A gram of activated carbon can have a surface area in excess of 500 m2 (5,400 sq ft), with 3,000 m2 (32,000 sq ft) being readily achievable.
Heating was achieved through coal fires situated beneath the structure and stoked via external firemouths.
A centrifuge relies on the principles of centrifugal force accelerating molecules so that particles of different masses are physically separated in a gradient along the radius of a rotating container.
It was unveiled in September 2015 in Rotterdam and later similar structures toured or were installed in Beijing and Tianjin, China, Kraków, Poland, Anyang, South Korea and Abu Dhabi.
It is long and thin, and relies on having a fairly steep slope, typically between 10° and 16°, up which the kiln runs.
By 1913, 850,000,000 cubic feet (24,000,000 m3) of hydrogen was manufactured annually by this process.
Materials used in ULPA filters Both high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) and ULPA filter media have similar designs.
Flue gas condensation is the process by which flue gas is cooled to below its water dew point, with the heat released by the resulting condensation of water being recovered as low temperature heat.
Ones that are made from completely synthetic material excepting the metal drain cylinders contained within are far superior and longer lasting than the traditional cardboard/cellulose/paper type that still predominate.
For the manufacturer, data reports provide a form of customer service over the life of the equipment.
Main process characteristics and its assessment The performance and output efficiency of the screen scroll centrifuge can be affected by several factors, such as particle size and feed concentration, flow rate of feed and screen mesh size of the centrifuge.
In addition to that, this centrifuge is also employed in the dewatering of potash, gilsonite, in salt processes and in dewatering various sands.
The single curved geometry and pressure differential causes a longitudinal crack to bulge out or protrude from the original shape.
A restriction orifice plate downstream of the BDV ensures the vessel is blowndown in an appropriate time period.
The 7-metre (23 ft) tall tower uses patented positive ionisation technology and is expected to clean 30,000 m3 of air per hour.
These drums were where the water filled tubes were terminated after having passed through the boiler furnace.
The recuperator transfers some of the waste heat in the exhaust to the compressed air, thus preheating it before entering the fuel burner stage.
Pulsed columns are a type of liquid-liquid extraction equipment; examples of this class of extraction equipment is used at the BNFL plant THORP.
An oxygen tank is an oxygen storage vessel, which is either held under pressure in gas cylinders, referred to in the industry as high pressure oxygen cylinders, or as liquid oxygen in a cryogenic storage tank.
The most common application of Natural Circulation evaporation is as a reboiler for distillation columns.
Another configuration utilizing a crossflow fan for thrust and flow control is the propulsive wing, another experimental concept prototype initially developed in the 1990s and 2000s.
They also have use in chemical applications such as gas separations, dehumidification, batteries and fuel cells.
See also Storage tank Fixed roof tank References External links Use of floating roof storage tanks in Oil & Gas industry Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors, Volume 1: Stationary Point and Area Sources.
There are two known major groups of earthenware and celadon kiln sites from the Goryeo period: those in Gangjin County and more in Buan County.
Diagram of water-cooled surface condenser The adjacent diagram depicts a typical water-cooled surface condenser as used in power stations to condense the exhaust steam from a steam turbine driving an electrical generator as well in other applications.
sulfonic acid and quaternary ammonium, enabling the membrane to form water channels and selectively transport cations or anions, respectively.
If a separate heat source is required a direct fired furnace with diesel, kerosene, LPG or natural gas burner can be used.
In applications other than filtration, parameters such as mechanical strength, temperature stability, and electrical conductivity may dominate.
This was followed by a series of underwater habitats where people stayed for several weeks at great depths.
References Measuring Smokes and Rating Efficiencies of Industrial Air Filters Gas cleaning and cooling
Any leakage is from the periphery cover to the atmosphere, or to a passage that contains the same fluid.
The capability of regular addition of a small quantity of catalyst is instrumental to ebullated-bed reactors' consistent product quality over long time periods.
Also featured are various labeled buttons and switches which the rider may interact with but have no function.
Demisted vapor condenses on tubes in the desalination plant, and product water is collected in the distillate tray.
Multi-stage flash distillation (MSF) is a water desalination process that distills sea water by flashing a portion of the water into steam in multiple stages of what are essentially countercurrent heat exchangers.
It also covers the suppliers examination responsibilities, requirements of the authorized inspectors (AI) as well as the requirements for the qualification of personnel, inspection and examinations.
In addition, analog signals can suffer from nonlinear distortion, especially near the frequency limits of the device.
For each interface between two objects in contact with each other, there will be a temperature drop across the interface.
Microreactors can offer many advantages over conventional scale reactors, including improvements in energy efficiency, reaction speed and yield, safety, reliability, scalability, on-site/on-demand production, and a much finer degree of process control.
In many cases this filter medium is designed to contain apertures of specific size which will absorb the impurities in the solution.
The rotation causes a constant mixing of the product in the chambers, providing good heat transfer and increasing efficiency.
Theoretically, a spherical pressure vessel has approximately twice the strength of a cylindrical pressure vessel with the same wall thickness, and is the ideal shape to hold internal pressure.
This increases fluid velocity and the effective heat transfer co-efficient of the exchanger In a static mixer, baffles are used to minimize the tangential component of velocity which causes vortex formation, and thus promotes mixing.
The walls of the kiln remain standing, just as they would have been left after the fired bricks are removed.
Applications Because they are easy to model, falling-film columns are generally used as laboratory equipment, for example to measure experimentally the values of transport coefficients.
A TLUD gasifier is a considerable improvement on the rocket stove, being a more efficient way to achieve smoke-free combustion of the fuel.
Technology A mixture of water and methanol with a molar concentration ratio (water:methanol) of 1.0 - 1.5 is pressurized to approximately 20 bar, vaporized and heated to a temperature of 250 - 360 °C.
Rate of filling must be limited to avoid excessive heating, the temperature of cylinder and contents must remain below the maximum working temperature specified by the applicable standard.
Allowing liquid coolant to completely fill the pressurizer eliminates this steam bubble, and is referred to in industry as letting the pressurizer "go hard".
Inspired by information on experiments on underwater habitats abroad (in particular, by Jacques Cousteau's Conshelf), the members of the amateur diving club "Ichthyander" in Donetsk embarked on the project of their own at a site by Tarkhankut Cape, Crimea.
These filters usually offer a service life that is 4–8 times what is offered by pocket filters at a lower energy expenditure.
Since that time, virtually all of the refineries worldwide have installed API separators as a first primary stage of their oily wastewater treatment plants.
To create turbulence for dispersion of one phase in other, a mechanical agitator is used in conventional equipments.
The solid residue, which remains at the top of the Büchner funnel, is therefore recovered more efficiently: it is much drier than it would be with a simple filtration.
One of the advantages of the indirect system is that it is easier to protect the food, or other substance, from contamination whether wind-blown or by birds, insects, or animals.
Thermosyphon reboilers (also known as calandrias) are more complex than kettle reboilers and require more attention from the plant operators.
Multiple-effect evaporation commonly uses sensible heat in the condensate to preheat liquor to be flashed.
For internally evaporating fluids, separation between the liquid phase (the solution) and the gaseous phase takes place inside the tubes.
Tenney also served as the underwater Habitat Engineer on the International Mission, the last mission on the Tektite II project.
A batch reactor is a chemical reactor in which a non-continuous reaction is conducted, i.e., one where the reactants, products and solvent do not flow in or out of the vessel during the reaction until the target reaction conversion is achieved.
The Walker Charcoal Kiln is a structure in the Prescott National Forest near the town of Walker, Arizona and situated in the vicinity of the abandoned Poland Junction Mine near the summit of Renegade Hill.
Spinning band distillation achieves the same outcome by using a rotating band within the column to force the rising vapors and descending condensate into close contact, achieving equilibrium more quickly.
MDMT is one of the design conditions for pressure vessels engineering calculations, design and manufacturing according to the ASME Boilers and Pressure Vessels Code.
The hot gas from the furnace is ducted through the brickwork for some interval, say one hour, until the brick reaches a high temperature.
Other major operators rely on a mix of nuclear submarines for strategic purposes and diesel–electric submarines for defense.
Historically, food and clothing was dried in the sun by using lines, or laying the items on rocks or on top of tents.
A cover, which fits around the outside bowl, contains a spinning mechanism which causes the inside strainer to rotate rapidly.
The stages have different pressures corresponding to the boiling points of water at the stage temperatures.
Regeneration Methods for regeneration of molecular sieves include pressure change (as in oxygen concentrators), heating and purging with a carrier gas (as when used in ethanol dehydration), or heating under high vacuum.
Performance characteristics of turbomachines Source: If all fluid velocities at corresponding points within the turbomachine are in the same direction and proportional to the blade speed, then the operating condition of a turbomachine at two different rotational speeds will be dynamically similar.
At the water/steam side, the ends of the heat exchanger packages (ends of the cooling water tubes) are fitted with reversing chambers and sealed with removable end plates.
The specifications contained in this Part are designated with 'SFA' and a number which is taken from the American Welding Society (AWS) specifications.
This is +10% for PD 5500, and ASME Section VIII div 1 & 2 (with an additional +10% allowance in ASME Section VIII for a fire relief case).
For simple networks of a few streams and heat exchangers, hand design methods with simple targeting software are often adequate, and aid the engineer in understanding the process.
Falling film evaporators versus flooded evaporators Falling film evaporators have a number of advantages over their flooded evaporator counterparts.
How it works The internal combustion engine in most cars and trucks is cooled by a mixture of water and antifreeze that is circulated through the engine and radiator by a water pump to enable the radiator to give off engine heat to the atmosphere.
Under this new legislation Harmonised Standards are now referred to as Designated Standards, but the practice of demonstrating compliance remains largely the same.
Example of materials that can be stored in Horton spheres are liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), liquefied natural gas (LNG), and anhydrous ammonia.
Some animals, including humans, have curled sheets of bone inside the nose called nasal turbinates to increase the surface area for heat exchange.
This model reproduces either linear, falling, or asymptotic fouling, depending on the relative values of k, λr, and λc.
Zeman, Leos J., Zydney, Andrew L., Microfiltration and Ultrafitration, Principles and Applications., New York: Marcel Dekker, Inc,1996.
In some cases it may be the lowest temperature at which significant stresses will occur and not the lowest possible temperature.
A small ∆T leads to slow heat transfer, meaning that we will need a very large heating surface to transfer the required heat.
The spacecraft's on-board self-automated pilot will perform each task if the rider does not respond to their prompt from Mission Control or if there is no one to perform the task.
In order to perform regular maintenance on a plate type heat exchanger, the plate stack is separated and the plates a cleaned to improve heat transfer.
Hot limestone is discharged from the shafts in sequence, by the action of a hydraulic "pusher plate".
See also References External links Media related to Relief valves at Wikimedia Commons PED 97/23/EC; Pressure Equipment Directive – European Union.
The site comprises a pair of kilns, a battery building which housed ore crushing machinery, a dam and the remains of two houses where the manager and various workers lived while the site was in operation.
If used in combination with washing machines featuring fast spin cycles (800+ rpm) or spin dryers, the cost-effectiveness of this technique has the potential to render tumble dryer-like designs obsolete in single-person and small family households.
See also Chemical reactors Chemical reaction engineering References External links Official web site Other official web site
Production and trade in pine-derived tar was a major contributor in the economies of Northern Europe and Colonial America.
Configurations Mix and separation As described above, the mix & separation configuration is the standard operation for centrifugal contactors used for liquid-liquid extraction processes.
This ensures that the functionality of the equipment is not affected or damaged by the contaminants from the surrounding environment.
The fouling rate constant (m/s) can be obtained by dividing the normalized fouling rate by the mass density of the process fluid (kg/m3).
Walker as an outgrowth of their research on radiation effects in solids, with a special focus on materials exposed to energetic particles in space.
An example of the reactors that are considered for this theory are Continuous flow stirred-tank reactor (CSTR) and a Plug flow reactor model (PFR).
One of the first innovations in washing machine technology was the use of enclosed containers or basins that had grooves, fingers, or paddles to help with the scrubbing and rubbing of the clothes.
The Kiln Site in Yucheon-ri, Buan (Korean: 부안 유천리 요지; Hanja: 扶安柳川里窯址) refers to a Goryeo-era archaeological site in Yucheon-ri, Buan County, North Jeolla Province, South Korea.
Increased reactor vessel size: Because of the expansion of the bed materials in the reactor, a larger vessel is often required than that for a packed bed reactor.
Cooling fans - (also referred to as "cooling tower fans") - These are axial fans, typically with large diameters, for low pressures and large volumes of airflow.
In the tri-sector design, the largest sector (usually spanning about half the cross-section of the casing) is connected to the boiler hot gas outlet.
Roy and Khuridiya’s ECC design is composed of a double brick wall structure, supported by a base layer of brick, and covered with a straw mat.
Andreatta, Dale (January 2007), "A Report on Some Experiments with the Top-Lit Up Draft (TLUD) Stove" (PDF), ETHOS 2007 Conference, retrieved 7 April 2012 HE Huang-chang; LI Hong-bo (February 2011).
It also supplies oxygen generation equipment to other countries such as France for the new Barracuda-class submarine.
Wood tar Since prehistoric times, wood tar has been used as a water repellent coating for boats, ships, sails, and roofs.
Such industries are petroleum processing, petrochemical production, natural gas processing, coal tar processing, brewing, liquefied air separation, and hydrocarbon solvents production.
Special class of uncrewed spacecraft is space telescopes, a telescope in outer space used to observe astronomical objects.
The first horizontal peeler centrifuge was manufactured by Buffaud et Robatel (Lyon, FRANCE) in 1905 for synthetic ammonia production at plants in Europe, Russia, Japan, and the USA.
Each pressure vessel that conforms to the ASME code has its own MDMT, and this temperature is stamped on the vessel nameplate.
A study was conducted on the use of a moving-bed heat exchanger filter (MHEF) for removing fine dust particles from gases.
When Craig returned from service in the Navy following World War II, he purchased the Reinhardt farm and pottery complex in Vale, North Carolina.
Condor Dense Medium Separators The Condor Dense Medium Separator (DMS) is a multi-stage, high efficiency media separation machine for mineral processing operations at the rougher and scavenger stage.
Suspended particles collect on the inside of the screen, and the flush valve opens to expel the buildup.
However, analyses have shown that even though it is more costly to construct, a well-designed SMR can produce hydrogen more cost-effectively than an ATR.
To decrease pressure in the reactor coolant system, sprays of relatively cool water are turned on inside the pressurizer, lowering the coolant temperature in the pressurizer and thereby lowering the pressure.
The centrifugal force generated by spinning the centrifuge rotor creates a pressure gradient within the solvent contained in the tubes or vials, this means that the samples boil from the top down, helping to prevent "bumping".
Before launch, the pressure was kept at slightly higher than sea level at a constant 5.3 psi (0.37 bar) above ambient for Gemini, and 2 psi (0.14 bar) above sea level at launch for Apollo), and transitioned to the space cabin altitude during ascent.
At low liquid levels the roof eventually lands and a vapor space forms between the liquid surface and the roof, similar to a fixed roof tank.
The primary advantage of a vehicle with a reformer is that it does not need a pressurized gas tank to store hydrogen fuel; instead methanol is stored as a liquid.
Automated tank cleaning machines work in a manner similar to an irrigation sprinkler but are highly-engineered to deliver increased force.
The separated liquids are discharged without pressure and flow by gravity to exit the stage (note that exit is higher than inlet in Fig.
It is connected to a vacuum line via a hollow shaft creating a negative pressure within the filter drum.
Other types of gas-to-gas heat exchangers Heat pipe Run-around coil Thermal wheel, or rotary heat exchanger (including enthalpy wheel and desiccant wheel) Convection recuperator Radiation recuperator See also References == External links ==
Stainless-steel strainers are used in industrial, municipal, and irrigation applications, and can be designed for very high flow rates.
Furthermore, methods of trituration include levigation, which is the trituration of a powder with a non-solvent liquid, and pulverization by intervention, which is trituration with a solvent that can be easily removed after the substance has been broken down.
Carbon dioxide reacts with quicklime (calcium oxide) to form limestone (calcium carbonate), in a process called carbonate looping.
Recently, the term has also been used to describe systems that inject a dry reagent or slurry into a dirty exhaust stream to "wash out" acid gases.
Reverse osmosis The bulk flow of water through a selectively permeable membrane because of an osmotic pressure difference is called osmosis.
Information on fluid flow and heat transfer in the outer channels of pillow plate heat exchangers is available in.
Hence, a fractionating column almost always needs more actual, physical plates than the required number of theoretical vapor–liquid equilibrium stages.
It is the oldest dragon kiln in Singapore and the only one still operational, albeit only a few times a year.
Window air conditioners commonly use a dual-shaft fan to operate separate fans for the interior and exterior parts of the device.
In order to reduce capital cost, in practice a minimum temperature difference (Δ T) at the pinch point is demanded, e.g., 10 °F.
Jet aerators are applied across a wide range of water, wastewater and biosolids treatment applications.
Dr Thomas B Reed and the Norwegian architect Paal Wendelbo independently developed the working idea of a TLUD gasifier in the 1990s.
The amount of fluoride leached from the water being filtered depends on how long the water is actually touching the alumina filter media.
This information usually includes the type of cylinder, the working or service pressure, the serial number, date of manufacture, the manufacture's registered code and sometimes the test pressure.
Applications Spinning band distillation may sometimes be used to recycle waste solvents which contain different solvents, and other chemical compounds.
Bunkering in maritime law In many maritime contracts, such as charter parties, contracts for carriage of goods by sea, and marine insurance policies, the ship-owner or ship operator is required to ensure that the ship is seaworthy.
Uses A policeman can be used for cleaning the inside of glassware, or for getting the last bit of precipitate out of a vessel.
Using a fixed roof tank to store a product with high volatility can lead to product losses as vapors escape the enclosure.
Personal safety is maintained and heat transfer surfaces can be provided to maintain filtration temperature.
The wet material is placed in the extractor, which has a wall of perforated metal, generally stainless steel.
These restrictions ensure that flowrates do not exceed the capacity of the blowdown system and that Joule-Thomson cooling does not increase the stresses in the vessel or blowdown system, potentially leading to brittle fracture.
Types There are fewer mechanically aided scrubber designs available than liquid- and gas-phase contacting collector designs.
Procedure To prepare cytocentrifuge smears, a funnel assembly is attached to the front of a microscope slide.
Thus, each dryer cell can be individually controlled and the drying / cooling air flow can be varied in each cell.
It provides material specifications for ferrous materials which are suitable for use in the construction of pressure vessels.
Other considerations for air movers Condition of incoming air It is not necessary to use a filter in an air mover in a relatively clean environment.
Fins dramatically increase the surface area with which heat can be exchanged, which improves the efficiency of conducting heat to a fluid with very low thermal conductivity, such as air.
The pressure makes the bags collapse partially, causing the dust cake to crack and fall into the hopper below.
The zhenyao "egg-shaped kiln", developed for Jingdezhen ware in the late Ming dynasty, is in some ways a compromise between mantou and dragon kilns, like a stretched mantou kiln.
The kilns were built by Moses Byrne around 1869 near the Piedmont Station along the Union Pacific Railroad.
Pulsation reactor technology is a thermal procedure for manufacturing fine powders with precisely defined properties.
It was an integration of architectural design and engineering function to create an optimal structure for a specific purpose.
They consist of a stainless steel mesh formed into a ring with a central divider, and are intended to be packed randomly into a packed column.
Design Criteria for Vapor/Liquid Separators Archived 2008-02-11 at the Wayback Machine Detailed explanation of high performance vapor-liquid separators (scrubbers) Vapor Liquid Separator designs and manufacturing process Archived 2018-06-15 at the Wayback Machine
He felt that reading widely would help him comprehend the Qur'an, so he did not limit his studies to Islamic studies.
However, ritual-focussed Mimamsa school scholars were generally opposed to central ideas of the Hindu Grammarians, while others Hindu schools such as Vedanta championed them.
Latin text and annotated German translation of an ancient Latin grammar of the 4th century for advanced beginner lessons].
They propose to validate the view attributed to Śākaṭāyana that all words can be analysed by the addition of affixes to verbal roots.
Kātyāyana's work (nearly 1500 verses on Pāṇini) is available only through references in Patañjali's work.
These include comparative literature, computer science, history, linguistics, philology, philosophy, semiotics, and terminology.
Dante became familiar with Saint Augustine's works, the De Consolatione Philosophiae by Boëthius, Saint Thomas Aquinas's works and some encyclopedic dictionaries like the Etymologiae by Isidore of Seville and the Livre du Tresor by Brunetto Latini.
The theory of universal translatability is disapproved by some researchers, like André Martinet, who is convinced that human experience cannot be well communicated because it is unique.
It has become a source for how ancient texts should be acted out based on the experience from commonly read ancient authors.
So strong was Ibn Mada's refutation of grammarians that University of Oxford Laudian Professor of Arabic Geert Jan van Gelder referred to Ibn Mada as the Sextus Empiricus of the Arab world.
[◌ʰʰ], [◌ʰ𐞁], the latter recently added to Unicode after a request by the IPA, were illustrated for long aspiration [(1.3)] was added for a 1.3-second pause.
Ibn Hisham was endowed with extraordinary intelligence and a strong memory, as he was able to collect several sciences and excel in them.
During 1973–1993 she was the head of the Department of the Russian Language, then the Head of the Department of Russian Language and Speech Communication.
The rhetorical treatise Ad Herennium was attributed to him by some scholars of the early 20th century.
He was probably an African by birth, summoned to Constantinople to take the place of Euanthius, a learned commentator on Terence.
One work in particular that belongs to this province, Yesod Mora ("Foundation of Awe"), on the division and the reasons for the Biblical commandments, he wrote in 1158 for a London-based friend, Joseph ben Jacob.
However, he had a remarkable memory and wrote poetry in unusual meters, and he enjoyed a great reputation as a teacher; Quintilian and Persius are said to have been his pupils.
Much of the impetus for this work came from the desire of non-Arab Muslims for correct interpretation of the Quran and the development of tafsir (Quranic exegesis); The poetic language of the Qur'an presents interpretative challenges even to the native Arabic speaker.
He is perhaps the same as the author of a work περὶ Διονυσιακοῦ συστήματος, also quoted by Athenaeus, without any distinguishing epithet.
He was from a Sayyid family, and was a direct descendent of Muhammad in the 38th generation via Hasan ibn Ali.
Abū Bakr Muḥammad ibn al-Qāsim ibn Muḥammad ibn Bashār al-Anbārī (Arabic: أبوبكر محمد بن القاسم بن محمد بن بشّار الأنباري) (885–940 AD), also known simply as Ibn al-Anbari (ابن الأنباري), was a well known Arab philologist and grammarian of the Abbasid Caliphate.
Two lines of a poem Ibrāhīm recited before his patron are quoted by the 19th-century historian Aḥmad al-Nāṣirī al-Salāwī.
Kvergić of Vienna entitled "La psychologie de quelques éléments des langues Turques" ("The Psychology of Some Elements of the Turkic Languages").
A special issue of American Speech published in 2022 examined twenty-first-century perspectives on the Linguistic Atlas Projects, reflecting renewed scholarly interest in the historical data and its applications to contemporary linguistic questions.
In careful speech and in with certain function words, or in some phrase stress conditions (see Mateus and d'Andrade, for details), European Portuguese has a similar process: /ɨ/ + V → [jV]; se a vires [sjɐ ˈviɾɨʃ] ('if you see her'), mais que um [majʃ kjũ] ('more than one').
This book contains one of the most complete lists of types of dactylic hexameters in antiquity, including the teres versus, which may (or may not) be the so-called "golden line." Diomedes wrote about the same time as Charisius and used the same sources independently.
He handled this position efficiently and successfully, but in 842 he resigned so as to have greater leisure for study and prayer, retiring to the neighbouring monastery of St Petersberg.
According to Saussure, meaning arises from the internal network of differences within language itself; individuals do not use language merely to convey pre-existing thoughts—rather, thought is shaped and constituted by language.
Abu Al-Qasim Al-Fadl bin Mohammed bin Ali bin Al-Fadl Al-Qasabani (Arabic: أبو القاسم الفضل بن محمد بن علي بن الفضل القصباني) (died 444 AH), was a well known Arab philologist and grammarian of the Abbasid Caliphate.
Here, "similar" means that nasalization can be disregarded, and that the two central vowels /a, ɐ/ can be identified with each other.
Its English translation done by Professor Whitney is also available, and the same has been published in the Journal of the American Oriental Society.
⟨ɹ⟩ appeared at the same horizontal position as the other alveolars rather than slightly more back as did in the previous charts.
The field grew probably because almost a quarter of words in the Vedic texts composed in the 2nd-millennium BCE appear just once.
The surviving text is incomplete: the beginning of the first, part of the fourth, and the greater part of the fifth book are lost.
He is the first author to treat Egyptian Arabic as a dialect distinct from Classical Arabic, compiling an Egyptian Arabic word list, the Raf` al-'iṣr `an kalām 'ahl miṣr (i.e.
Published at that time more than ninety articles in newspapers and magazines since 1982 related to the Yemeni history and the Yemeni Art.
After graduating from the Chief Engineering School, he graduated from the General Staff Academy and did not have formal education in linguistics.
Lambert Bos was born at Workum in Friesland, where his father, Jakob Bos, was headmaster of the school.
A commentary, Super Porphyrium, printed by Cousin in 1836 among the Ouvrages inédits d'Abélard, and assigned both by that editor and by Haurau to Hrabantis Maurus, is now generally believed to be the work of a disciple.
Other Akhfashs Besides Al-Akhfash al-Aṣghar (“the Younger Akhfash”), there are at least two other famous scholars with the name Akhfash, distinguished by their epithets al-Akbar (“the Greater / Oldest”) and al-Awsāt (“the Middle”).
Vākyapadīya The Vākyapadīya, also known as Trikāṇḍī (three books), is an Indian linguistic treatise on the philosophy of language, grammar, and semantics.
According to the diary of Jakub Gieysztor, Akelaitis had no money and so he donated his mother's ring and watch for the demonstration.
The family was at the centre of Vienna's cultural life; Bruno Walter described the life at the Wittgensteins' palace as an "all-pervading atmosphere of humanity and culture".
In his final years at the Ministry of Education, Solomonick began to familiarize the Ulpan teachers with computers, laying the groundwork for the introduction of computer-aided learning as one of the mainstays of the Ulpans' activities.
99 Nelly Hanna, In Praise of Books: A Cultural History of Cairo's Middle Class, Sixteenth to the Eighteenth Century, Syracuse University Press (2003), ISBN 978-0-8156-3012-8, chapter 5.
The Treatise is important for the study of Old Norse, as it is a major text showing the state of the language just prior to the writing of the Icelandic Sagas.
His fame largely derives from his highly celebrated commentary on the Quran entitled Tafsir Ibn Atiyya.
लौकिक or classical) As per another legend, it is one of the eight forms of marriage where the bride's father receives a pair of kine from the groom.
In 1928, while serving as the director of the Syrian Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, al-Shihabi joined the National Bloc in opposition to the French Mandate for Syria and the Lebanon.
Al-Ẓāhirī was initially a follower of al-Shāfiʿī in matters of jurisprudence, later branching off in terms of his principles, likely due to the influence of Ibn Rāhwayh.
Hacker retired from Oxford in 2006, and was appointed to an emeritus research fellowship from 2006 to 2015, since when he has been an emeritus fellow.
These are clearly documents with stylistic ambitions." Few listeners would have understood them when they were read out at royal assemblies.
Overview Patañjali is one of the three most famous Sanskrit grammarians of ancient India, other two being Pāṇini and Kātyāyana who preceded Patañjali (dated to c.
The core of the text may date to the early eighth century, but much material was added between that date and the production of the earliest surviving copies from the end of the fourteenth century.
Ogham The Auraicept is one of the three main sources of the manuscript tradition about Ogham, the others being In Lebor Ogaim and De dúilib feda na forfed.
It is represented with two small circles at the right of a letter as ះ, and it should not be confused with the similar-looking yŭkôlpĭntŭ (យុគလពិន្ទុ; "pair of dots"), which indicates a short vowel followed by a glottal stop like their equivalent visarga marks in the Thai and Lao scripts.
See also Schools of Sanskrit grammar Pāṇini Tolkappiyam Vyakarana Sanskrit grammar Katantra Notes References Trautmann, Thomas R.
Katanov – letter from Boris Miller to Sergey Oldenburg "Miller in Talyshstan" – iarex.ru Talysh studies are in the "risk group" in the Republic of Azerbaijan
He distinguished himself in mathematics and philosophy, graduating as seventh Wrangler in the former in 1893 and becoming a Fellow in the latter in 1895.
Upon their return from India in 1890, the Lanmans built a home at 9 Farrar Street in Cambridge where he lived until his death.
His Padapāṭha of the Rigveda was one of the early attempts in the direction of linguistic analysis; he broke down the samhita text of the Rig Veda into words, identifying even the separate elements of compound words.
Jean-Luc Deuffic, "Un logicien renommé, proviseur de Sorbonne au XIVe siècle: Raoul le Breton de Ploudiry.
Institute of Language and Thought Meshchaninov was a follower of Nikolai Marr and succeeded him as head of the Soviet Institute of Language and Thought from 1935 to 1950.
After his illness in 1953, he entrusted her to continue his research in the field of the Talysh language, advised her and provided all possible assistance.
In the course of the 1970s, Russian theorists adopted the wider sense of "equivalence" as something resulting from linguistic transformations.
The book is based on Al-Nassir's doctoral dissertation (1985) at the University of York under the supervision of John Kelly.
His dissertation, directed by Walther Mayer, was titled Zwei Beiträge zur mehrdimensionalen Differentialgeometrie.
See also Pāṇini Sanskrit grammarians Bhaṭṭikāvya Bhaṭṭoji Dīkṣita References Aryendra Sharma, Kasika - a commentary on Pāṇini's grammar by Vamana and Jayaditya.
The earlier one was composed in 1332, when Philip VI announced his intention of going on Crusade in July.
The Katantra (Sanskrit: कातन्त्र; IAST: Kātantra) is a treatise on Sanskrit grammar (Vyakarana) attributed to Sharvavarman living at the time of the Satavahana dynasty.
Additionally, a related work that is extant and is more ancient than the 5th-century BCE Nirukta by Yaska, is the Nighantu which is a lexicographic treatise.
Abū Zayd Sa’īd ibn Aws al-Anṣārī (أبو زيد سعيد بن أوس الأنصاري; died 830 CE/215 AH) was an Arab linguist and a reputable narrator of hadith.
External links Excerpt from Ibn Khalawayh's Names of the Lion, translated by David Larsen, on Poets.org
His science of grammar led in turn, to the establishment of the first great School of grammarians at Basrah, that would be rivalled only by the school at Kufah.
His student al-Thaqafi seems to have had more prescriptive views while al-'Ala's were more descriptive.
According to Ryle, there are two types of descriptions: thin description: surface-level observations of behaviour, e.g.
Della Valle had originally given these manuscripts to a Franciscan named Tomasso Obicini to edit and publish.
Yang claimed that his family had moved south from the state of Jin during its civil infighting in the 6th century BCE.
His status was considered by many Muslim scholars to be of the highest rank in regard to biographical evaluation, and he is quoted in both Sahih Muslim and Sahih al-Bukhari, the two most significant collections for Sunni Muslims.
Sanskrit śvāśurá, Old High German swāgur "brother-in-law") The above example also displays the stressing of the thematic vowel when it already exists.
See also The king and the god References Bibliography Arntz, Helmut (ed.), Hirt, Hermann: Die Hauptprobleme der indogermanischen Sprachwissenschaft.
Notes References Further reading Anne Grondeux (2001), Le Graecismus d'Évrard de Béthune à travers ses gloses Anne Grondeux (2010), Glosa super Graecismum Eberhardi Bethuniensis Capitula I–III: de figuris coloribusque rhetoricis Friedrich Wilhelm Bautz (1975).
Abu Salma Hammad ibn Salamah ibn Dinar al-Basri (Arabic: حماد بن سلمة بن دينار البصري; died 167 AH/783 CE), the son of Salamah ibn Dinar, was a prominent narrator of hadith and one of the earliest grammarians of the Arabic language.
During martial law in Poland he was interned for refusing to sign an oath of loyalty which led to international protests.
One of the results of the linguistic turn was an increasing focus on logic and philosophy of language, and the cleavage between ideal language philosophy and ordinary language philosophy.
Early life The scholar Sheikh Ibn Hisham Al-Ansari was born in Cairo in Dhu al-Qadah, in the year of 708 AH, corresponding to the year 1309 CE.
The work was modeled after Kalinka's Galicya i Kraków pod panowaniem austryackiem (Galicia and Kraków under the Austrian Rule) about the Austrian Partition published in 1853.
See also Bible translation Language documentation Language revitalization References Further reading Zwartjes, Otto; Altman, Cristina, eds.
The Vedic literature from the 2nd millennium BCE has a very large collection of such words, with nearly 25% of the words therein being used just once.
For Foucault, knowledge itself is a form of power, and linguistic discourses delineate the invisible boundaries of social order.
"Provisional identification of languages in the Polyglotta Africana", Sierra Leone Language Review (1964), 3, pp.
Unlike Patanjali, Bhatrihari applies the term sphoṭa to each element of the utterance, varṇa (varṇasphoṭa; the letter or syllable), pada (padasphoṭa; the word), and vākya (vākyasphoṭa; the sentence).
El-Said Muhammad Badawi (Arabic: السعيد محمد بدوي, romanized: Al-Saʿīd Muḥammad Badawī; 1929 – March 16, 2014) was a scholar and linguist and author of many works, both in English and in Arabic, dealing with various aspects of the Arabic language.
Significance of the obelisk For Kircher, obelisks and their hieroglyphic inscriptions were the source of hermetic wisdom that was older than, but continuous with Christian revelation.
He was blind, and many students of knowledge studied under him, the most famous of whom were: Al-Hariri, Al-Khatib Al-Tabrizi, and the judge of Basra, Abu Al-Faraj Al-Basri.
The name Niftawayh, a combination of "nift", or asphalt – due to his dark complexion – and "wayh", was given to him out of his love of Sibawayh's works.
Some, such as Heinrich Keil, the 19th century editor of Marius Victorinus, believed that Victorinus published the work of an earlier writer Aphthonius, to which he added an introduction and an appendix on the metres of Horace.
Criticism In the post-war period, key tenets of logical positivism, including the verifiability criterion, analytic-synthetic distinction and observation-theory distinction, drew escalated criticism.
Ibn Khalawayh was a famous scholar during his lifetime, and assembled a circle of disciples in regular literary reunions.
Having learned the Qur'an by the age of ten in his village, El-Nakhas, Sharqiyya Governorate, he attended Al-Azhar University for his secondary schooling.
In recent years, advancements in deep learning and large language models have significantly enhanced the capabilities of natural language processing, leading to widespread applications in areas such as healthcare, customer service, and content generation.
In 1957, Noam Chomsky’s Syntactic Structures revolutionized Linguistics with 'universal grammar', a rule-based system of syntactic structures.
Structure Xu wrote the Shuowen Jiezi to analyze seal script characters that evolved slowly and organically throughout the mid-to-late Zhou dynasty in the state of Qin, and which were then standardized during the Qin dynasty and promulgated empire-wide.
He published A New Theory in Languages, a guide to Marrism, and later Verb and Parts of Speech and Phrase Elements.
Second, he substitutes the abstract laryngeal signs with their supposed phonetic values: *h1 = *ʔ (glottal stop), *h2 = *ʕ (voiced pharyngeal fricative), *h3 = *ʕʷ (pharyngeal fricative with lip rounding).
He was born in Sribhavan in 800 to Rashtrakuta King Govinda III during the king's return from his successful northern campaigns in Kanauj.
Additionally, he contributed to Arabic philology as well as lexicography, recording vocabulary and expressions of the Bedouin tribes which had not previously been recorded.
Brice, An Historical atlas of Islam, 1981, David Larsen, introduction to Ibn Khalawayh's Names of the Lion (Wave Books, 2017), vii-xiv.
After the war, Ayer briefly returned to the University of Oxford where he became a fellow and Dean of Wadham College.
Ibn 'Atiyya was, in fact, an extremely conscientious student who enjoyed reading and was eager to learn in order to become well-versed in all fields.
He was a celebrated, if not controversial, figure during his time, being referred to in Islamic historiographical texts as "the scholar of the era." Biography Early life and family Dāwūd al-Ẓāhirī's exact place of birth is not entirely clear to Muslim historians.
In 1940 she entered the Faculty of Philology of Saratov University, which she graduated from in 1945.
The most important part of it is that which deals with metres, based on the work of Caesius Bassus, the friend of Persius.
His origins were in al-Yaman, however his marriage to a daughter of al-Ḥafṣā al-Mughannī earned him the name ‘Ḥayyan al-Sūraḥī.’ Abū Sa’īd reports al-Sarrāj and Abū ‘Ali al-Ṣaffār that al-Mubarrad was born in 825-26 (210 AH)and died in 898-99 (285 AH), aged seventy-nine.
The eldest son of Vararuci of Kerala legend is known as Mezhathol Agnihothri and he is supposed to have lived between 343 and 378 CE.
The latter may be viewed as a case of summary scanning, since the element of sequence in the process is lacking.
External links Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum: complete texts and full bibliography Text of Aphthonius in the Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum.
The number of Slovene equivalents in this edition is notably higher; they often reflect Carinthian Slovene.
by the historian Ibn al-Tiqtaqa (1262-1310); (1895) Oumâra du Yémen, sa vie et son œuvre; biography and works of the Yemeni poet ʻUmārah ibn ʻAlī al-Ḥakamī (1121-1174); (Paris, ed., Ernest Leroux, 1897) References External links Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
But also foreign words like the French wattman, in French stemming from watt and man, were claimed to be of Turkish origin by a Turkish scholar.
The main reason for the conflict comes down to the Yin Wenzi's core texts being lost for several centuries and chapters seemingly being added, contradicting the Book of Han listing it as having one chapter.
As was common at the time due to the enduring Tower of Babel myth, Hensel attempted to derive all languages from a common origin in Hebrew, following A philosophicall essay for the reunion of the languages, or, the art of knowing all by the mastery of one (1675) by Pierre Besnier (1648–1705).
Donatus auctus was added some time around 1426–37, between the first and second redactions of the De scriptoribus illustribus latinae linguae ["On Famous Writers of the Latin Language"] of Sicco Polenton, and it became the standard account of Virgil's life up until the 18th century.
After the vowels ই or উ and before velar or labial stops, the bisarga may appear as ষ, producing forms such as নিষ্কাম.
His full name was Dakṣiputra Panini according to verses 1.75.13 and 3.251.12 of Patanjali's Mahabhashya Mahābhāṣya, with the first part suggesting his mother's name was Dakṣi.
Three months after Wittgenstein's arrival Russell told Morrell:I love him & feel he will solve the problems I am too old to solve ...
At the time, nobody was aware of the connection between Domitian and the obelisk, and it was known as the 'Pamphilj obelisk' after the Pope's family name.
Significance The significance of Clajus's Grammatica Germanicae Linguae lies in its role as one of the earliest and most thorough descriptions of the German language.
He studied physics at the University of Heidelberg, the University of Lausanne, and, ultimately, the University of Berlin under Max Planck.
Style of the charters The standard of Latin prose improved in the tenth century, especially after about 960, when the leaders of the Benedictine reform movement adopted the elaborate and ornate style of Latin now called by historians the hermeneutic style.
In the preface to the first volume he regrets that, except for Alfred's translations, Englishmen had no means of learning the true doctrine as expounded by the Church Fathers of the Latin Church.
Abū Manṣūr Mauhūb al-Jawālīqī (Arabic: أبو منصور الجواليقي) (April 1074–17 July 1144) was an Arab grammarian born in Baghdād, where he studied philology under Khātib al-Tibrizī (1030 – 1109) and became famous for his handwriting.
Antimachus of Colophon (Greek: Ἀντίμαχος ὁ Κολοφώνιος), or of Claros, was a Greek poet and grammarian, who flourished about 400 BC.
Their proems consist of long convoluted sentences, parading an ostentatious display of Greek and glossary-based vocabulary and containing numerous unmistakable verbal reminiscences of Aldhelm's writings.
He is also considered the first person who explained gravity of Earth in a way similar to magnetic field behavior.
The Aindra(of Indra) school of Sanskrit grammar is allegedly one of the ancient schools of Sanskrit grammar.
Seeing this difficulty, there was a need to invent such a method in which all sutras necessary for the achievement of a particular experiment are available at one place.
The original matter contributed by Ibn Parḥon includes, in addition to the notes mentioned above, many interpretations of single Biblical passages, and numerous explanations of Biblical words by means of Neo-Hebraic and Aramaic.
Rutherford (1881); Lobeck devotes his attention chiefly to the later, Rutherford to the earlier usages noticed by Phrynichus.
In Foundations and "The Thought", Frege argues for Platonism against psychologism or formalism, concerning numbers and propositions respectively.
Ḱerd angʰetai widontbʰjos: ǵʰm̥on, potis, wl̥nam owijōm kʷr̥neti soi gʷʰermom westrom; owibʰjos kʷe wl̥nā ne esti’.
Saʿd and a group of fellow Persians had converted to Islam and become protégés of Qudāmah ibn Maẓ'ūn.
Ali laid down the principle of the three parts of speech; the noun, the verb and the particle and told him to write a treatise on it.
Gongsun ran a school and received patronage from rulers, advocating peaceful means of resolving disputes amid the martial culture of the Warring States period.
Plato's concern with the sophists' usage was that their words and phrases gave misleading impressions about reality and that, as highly revered intellectuals, the sophists should have utilized the most fitting descriptive words possible.
Moscow, 1926) Таты и их расселение и говоры: материалы и вопросы (Tats and their resettlement and dialects: materials and questions.
In 1850 he was appointed member of the Caucasus Department of the Russian Geographical Society and ordered to compile the history of the Caucasus region.
It then went on to discuss the Syriac inscriptions on the Xi'an Stele, although Kircher could not read Chinese.
A preface of this work, written during the twelfth century CE by Ilampuranar describes the work as aindiram nirainda Tolkappiyam[incorrect quote]('comprising Aindra').
Al-Nadim describes the voluminous work, reputedly the collaboration of forty-two grammarians, as "unequaled before his time and unrivaled afterwards".
Karl Lachmann based his critical edition of 1831 on manuscripts dating from the 4th century and earlier, to argue that the Textus Receptus must be corrected according to these earlier texts.
Ek'wōses ewᵇwekʷont: kl'udhi, owei!, k'ērd aghnutai widontmos: gh'ᵇmo, potis, wᵇlənām owjôm kʷr̥neuti sebhoi ghʷermom westrom; owimos-kʷe wᵇlənā ne esti.
Much social, geographical and historical information has been thus inferred from a close reading of Pāṇini's grammar.
Aindra, Katantra schools and the Tolkappiyam Burnell's search for the Aindra school took him to Southern India where he came across the Tamil grammatical work Tolkappiyam.
Baron Pyotr Karlovich Uslar (Russian: Пётр Карлович Услар, IPA: [ˈpʲɵtr kərɫəvʲɪt͡ɕ ʊsɫər]), known by his German name Peter von Uslar (1 September [O.S.
His habilitation thesis at the University of Rostock, Das Wesen der Wahrheit nach der modernen Logik (The Nature of Truth According to Modern Logic), was published in 1910.
Endings The basic scheme of suffixation is given in the table below and applies to many nouns and adjectives.
His grammatical opinions were eclectic, in between the major opposition between the grammatical schools of Basra and Kufa.
Modern usage, however, does not always imply this and may be demonstrated in the following examples: Retranslations occurring simultaneously or near-simultaneously so that it is difficult to determine the first from succeeding translations.
The two sides of the debate may be called the Nairuktas (based on Yāska's Nirukta, atomists), vs the Vaiyākarans (grammarians following Pāṇini, holists), and the debate continued in various forms for twelve centuries involving different philosophers from the Nyaya, Mimamsa and Buddhist schools.
Artemon (Ancient Greek: Ἀρτέμων) of Cassandreia was an ancient Macedonian grammarian, who seems to have lived after 316 BCE.
Sin Sukchu (Korean: 신숙주; Hanja: 申叔舟; August 2, 1417 – July 23, 1475) was a Korean politician during the Joseon period.
Vyākaraṇa scholarship has dealt with linguistic analysis to establish the exact form of words to properly express ideas, and Nirukta scholarship has focused on linguistic analysis to help establish the proper meaning of the words in context.
The first large scale NMT was launched by Baidu in 2015, followed by Google Neural Machine Translation (GNMT) in 2016.
It was published in Rome by the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith and dedicated to the Prefect of the Congregation, Cardinal Francesco Barberini.
The grammatical system based on this text, called Sārasvatavyākaraṇa, was popular due to its brevity and relative simplicity, especially among Jains.
The letters of the Sanskrit alphabet were further organized by the Vedic scholars into a magic square, making symmetrical and resonant alternate readings of the letters possible, such as top to bottom in addition to left to right.
In the Bhagavad Gita Sloka XVII.22, it is seen that the word अदेशकाले (ādeśkāle) with the dropping of a mātra i.e.
After the fall of Northern Qi, Zhitui became an official of the Northern Zhou, and moved his family to Guanzhong.
Mendelsohn, The Philosophy of Gottlob Frege, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005: "Appendix A.
This second edition also contains example phrases in German and Slovene, illustrating the use of the entries given.
His first article was published in Kronika Wiadomości Krajowych i Zagranicznych in 1856, and signed as "Chłop z Mariampola" (lit.
He is cited in Martyrs Mirror and Foxe's Book of Martyrs in relation to the etymology of the movement's name.
Succeeding his father, he was appointed to the Naqib office, acting as the head of the Alids in the area.
In approving sense, it is used to show that the meaning of the word is so important that the speaker's (or writer's) grammatical mistake (or conscious deviation from grammar) does not matter.
Its full title reads: Synopsis universae philologiae: in qua: miranda unitas et harmonia linguarum totius orbis terrarum occulta, e literarum, syllabarum, vocumque natura & recessibus eruitur.
Vararuci's name appears in a verse listing the 'nine gems' (navaratnas) in the court of one Vikramaditya.
Nomine et verbo was published by Johann Sichard at Basel in 1528 and subsequently, in a much more complete form, in the collection of Helias van Putschen, who had access to manuscripts that he used to rectify many deficiencies, large and small.
in his Kitāb al-Fihrist Al-Nadīm reports a written account by Abū al-Fatḥ ibn al-Naḥwī that Ibn Duraid examined the manuscript of Kitāb al-'Ayn at Baṣrah in 248H/ 862CE.
However, Nighantu is not a dictionary, a genre of texts that developed in later centuries and was called a Kosha in Sanskrit.
In 1988, a year before his death, Ayer wrote an article titled "What I saw when I was dead", describing an unusual near-death experience after his heart stopped for four minutes as he choked on smoked salmon.
Philology came to be divided into three branches: exegesis (訓詁; xùngǔ), grammatology (文字; wénzì) and phonology (音韻; yīnyùn).
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
See also al-Akhfash al-Akbar (the Oldest) al-Akhfash al-Aṣghar (the Younger) Akhfash's goat == References ==
Eesti murded III (1970) Tartumaa saja-aastaste jutud (1995) Võru keel (1997) Johannes Gutslaffi grammatika eesti keel ja Urvaste murrak (1998, in the book: J.
Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum: complete texts and full bibliography Bibliography of Diomedes in the Corpus Grammaticorum Latinorum blog
Twelve of the twenty grammarians described by Suetonius in De Illustribus Grammaticis had been slaves.
He had visited a number of times and found the collector friendly, but wary; fearful of the Clan of Hamdan [of Aleppo].
Some schools, such as Carvaka, state that this is never possible, and therefore Sabda is not a proper pramana.
Amerias (Greek: Ἀμερίας, 3rd century BC) was an ancient Macedonian lexicographer, known for his compilation of a glossary titled Glossai (Γλῶσσαι, terms or words).
She held several positions at the university following graduation, including senior lecturer at the Department of Slavic-Russian Linguistics.
But this characterisation of noun / verb is inadequate, as some processes may also have nominal forms.
(without citations) 7 vols, Saint Petersburg, 1879–1889), which with the assistance of his two friends, Rudolf Roth (d.
The gaṇapāṭha listing has these variants, not the forms in pausa, and thus has twenty-two items in all.
He attended the lessons of Taj al-Din al-Tabrizi and read to Taj al-Din al-Fakahani his explanation of the sign, except for the last page.
He served as a personal linguistic expert to King Sejong, and was intimately involved in the creation and application of the Korean alphabet known in modern times as Hangul.
In a citation from the book called Device of the Men of Letters, al-Hakimi wrote that Abū ‘Abd Allah Muhammad ibn al-Qāsim called Al-Mubarrad a "Sūraḥūn", of al-Baṣrah.
The few manuscripts of the pratisakhyas that have survived into the modern era are likely from the 500 to 150 BCE period.
Since 1935 professor and since 1939 doctor of sciences in philology at the Moscow Institute of Oriental Studies and researcher at the Institute of Linguistics of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR.
History William of Conches, Peter Helias, and Ralph of Beauvais, also referred to as speculative grammarians predate the Modist movement proper.
Within the genre, ordinary speech stress is often distorted in the first line, and may be regarded as a feature of the form: "There was a young man from the coast"; "There once was a girl from Detroit..." Legman takes this as a convention whereby prosody is violated simultaneously with propriety.
Running while Black is a sardonic description of racial profiling experienced by Black runners in the United States and Canada.
Most scientists do not think there are places that would not be significantly negatively impacted by climate change.
How to play The words are found in all directions — vertically, horizontally, diagonally and backwards.
It implies that a motorist may be stopped by a police officer largely because of racial bias rather than any apparent violation of traffic law.
Discerning the various layers of meanings would be a challenge to the reader, who has to focus on and keep turning over the passage in his mind, applying his erudition and imagination to perceive alternative meanings.
An example is Georgian baq'aq'i ts'q'alshi q'iq'inebs ("a frog croaks in the water"), in which q' is a uvular ejective.
In July 2020, Norwegian news site Dagens Næringsliv reported that the game had made Bertheussen a multimillionaire.
Vittoria is a love interest for Langdon in the novel while there is no attraction present in the film.
For instance in astronomical terminology a distinction may be drawn between a moon, any natural satellite, and the Moon, the natural satellite of Earth.
Two Pig Latin words that have entered mainstream American English are "ixnay" or "icksnay", the Pig Latin version of "nix" (itself a borrowing of German nichts), which is used as a general negative; and "amscray", Pig Latin for "scram", meaning "go away" or "get out of here".
ngware becomes rengwa) See also Costermonger (British street vendors from whom back slang originates) Pig Latin References External links Victorian Web Article John Burkardt's list of back slang words at Florida State University
SIMILARLY: the 1st, 4th, and 7th letters make SIR, the 2nd, 5th, and 8th letters make ILL, and the 3rd, 6th, and 9th letters make MAY.
References Heli Harrikari: A Constraint-based Approach to Finnish CV Spoonerisms External links List of Finnish spoonerisms
By 2024, some real estate listings promote climate scores that estimate the level of climate risk exposure to a property.
Forms As in the wit of Dorothy Parker's set, the Algonquin Round Table, witty remarks may be intentionally cruel (as also in many epigrams), and perhaps more ingenious than funny.
All versions allow players to resign their turn with the "resign" feature, pass their turn with the "pass" feature, swap out one or more tiles and forfeit the current turn with the "swap" feature, or look up what tiles remain with the "tile bag" feature.
Theoretically, a very long word could use every fourth letter to make four smaller words; e.g., «partitioned» is an alternade for «pin», «ate», «rid», and «to».
The 1980s Canadian gameshow Bumper Stumpers required contestants to decode gramograms presented as fictional vanity licence plates.
Also included are chapters on word-level phenomena, such as sentence palindromes, and wordplay involving arithmetic and geometric progressions.
After playing the last tile, the opposing player will lose all the points equal to the amount of the remaining tiles.
Moore’s “proof” is essentially an attempt to assert the truth of the sentence ‘Here is one hand’ as a paradigm case of genuine knowledge.
Certain letters do not appear in either of the two autograms above, which are therefore not pangrams.
ABOMINATE: the 1st, 4th, and 7th letters make AMA, the 2nd, 5th, and 8th letters make BIT, and the 3rd, 6th, and 9th letters make ONE.
It may be related to Old French boul "fraud, deceit, trickery", Icelandic bull "nonsense", Middle English bull "falsehood", or the verb bull "befool, mock, cheat".
"Trope Theory and the Unsustainable Lightness of Being", in Philosophical Semantics: Reintegrating Theoretical Philosophy, Newcastle upon Tyne: Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
The app was launched on 12 July 2025, and in it players must guess Venezuelan colloquial words and phrases.
Tolkien interpreted his own surname as derived from the Low German equivalent of dull-keen (High German toll-kühn) which would be a literal equivalent of Greek oxy-moron.
Sophocles, Oedipus st:370 Italian Aristotele, ancora adolescente, aveva avuto accesso all’associazione accademica.
In an article for Reader's Digest, Chloë Nannestad described Quiddler as "the best 2-player card game around" for those who enjoy word games.
For example, (2 + 3) × 4 = 20 forces addition to precede multiplication, while (3 + 5)2 = 64 forces addition to precede exponentiation.
Although Gumuțeasca has been spoken for more than 100 years and it has been passed from generation to generation, today only a few people continue to speak it.
On February 10, Wordle officially moved to The New York Times website, with player statistics carried over.
See also Controlled natural language One-letter word Oulipo Storytelling game Infinite canvas, a movement in comics in a sense opposite to that of constrained comics References Further reading Baetens, Jan.
References External links The Fumblerules of Grammar by William Safire Fumblerules entry on the alt.usage.english FAQ Hacker writing style section of JARGON FILE, VERSION 4.3.3, 20 SEP 2002
The player who has played the last card on the stack once the pickle round ends "wins" the stack and places it next to themself.
Dennis Ritchie, creator of the C language, said of the precedence in C (shared by programming languages that borrow those rules from C, for example, C++, Perl and PHP) that it would have been preferable to move the bitwise operators above the comparison operators.
Example games Two example games could be played as follows: In Example 1, it can be noted that the phrase "AT" does not end the game; this is because words only become valid once they are at least three letters long.
The emergence of insulated glazing and glass-manufacturing companies also caused the people of Mărgău to lose customers.
Similarly, 안녕 (annyeong) in Korean and שלום (shalom) in Hebrew can mean both "hello" and "goodbye" but the central meaning is "peace".
Players compete by racing to create the most coherent or humorous sentence that fits the acronym - in essence, a backronym.
Latin alphabet Near the beginning of the Christian era, the Latin alphabet had already undergone its principal changes, and had become a definite system.
Variations In German the game is known as Ja-Nein-Schwarz-Weiß ("yes-no-black-white") and in Hungarian as fekete-fehér, igen-nem ("black-white, yes-no").
The Australian television show Spicks and Specks had a contest called "Turning Japanese" which used RTT on song lyrics.
Players guess words, and any word that appears in the article is revealed, slowly allowing the player to piece together the topic.
The play modes include Solitaire (both long and shorts games), Banana Café, Live Games, and Challenges.
Uses in ciphers A ten-letter heterogram can be used as the key to a substitution cipher for numbers, with the heterogram encoding the string 1234567890 or 0123456789.
But, if he said simply, “Beast!” that would be hypocatastasis, for the other part of the simile or metaphor (“you”), would be implied and not stated.
The most popular variant of the game is known as chengyu jielong (成語接龍), which involves four character idioms instead.
Ross Eckler Jr., a statistician at Bell Labs, became editor until 2006, when he was succeeded by Jeremiah Farrell (Butler University).
In the book's closing scenes, a Swiss Guard hands Langdon the fifth brand, the Illuminati diamond, as a gift.
Among the lowercase letters "l" is unique since its symmetry is broken if it is close to a reference character which establishes a clear x-height.
Augustine's well-known abecedarian psalm against the Donatists is the earliest known example of medieval rhythmical verse.
Take away the verbs and the language speaks for itself." Thaler went so far as to organize a well-attended, tongue-in-cheek funeral for the verb, at the Sorbonne in Paris.
If the player manages to construct the magic word at the top of the screen, the well will be cleared of all tiles and the player will receive a large bonus.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
The player ends their turn by discarding one card from their hand so that the player ends up with the same number of cards as were dealt.
In popular culture The mnemonic sentence "Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain", mentioned above, also appears in the 2003 novel Artemis Fowl and the Eternity Code, third book of the Artemis Fowl series.
The Greek compound word ὀξύμωρον oksýmōron, which would correspond to the Latin formation, does not appear in any Ancient Greek works prior to the formation of the Latin term.
Special Alias On the flip side of the New Alias board is the Special Alias version of the board game: the rules are otherwise the same as in New Alias, but the game has different classes: The world around us, Sports and exercise, Entertainment and culture, and Sayings and quotes.
In ambigram calligraphy, each letter acts as an illustration, each letter is created with attention to detail and has a unique role within a composition.
Kalodont or kaladont is a South Slavic word game, popular in Croatia, Montenegro, Serbia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and North Macedonia, in which players in turn say words, each beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
Šatrovački was initially developed by Roma and various marginal subcultures and criminal groups in Yugoslavia, who employed it as a device of secret communication.
An inverted speech form similar to Totoiana also exists in the French language and is known as verlan (from l'envers, "the inverse", but inverted).
2020s Revival In 2021, Tutnese gained traction on social media platforms including Discord, Google Classroom and TikTok.
Espy Jeremiah Farrell Martin Gardner Mike Keith Douglas Hofstadter Lila Maria de Coninck See also Constrained writing List of forms of word play Oulipo Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics References Bibliography Books Bergerson, Howard W.
Origin The idea that one can construct a grammatically correct sentence consisting of nothing but repetitions of "buffalo" was independently discovered several times in the 20th century.
Use in the United Kingdom In 2009, the Conservative Party leader David Cameron used the trope with a German accent whilst criticising the idea of ID cards in the United Kingdom by asking a Q&A session "Where are your papers?".
However, their existence is said to be threatened by "river crabs" which are invading their habitat.
In 2005, a complete rosarigasino version of Cervantes' novel Don Quixote de la Mancha was published, entitled Don Quijogasote de la Magasancha and translated by Bernardo "Chiquito" Reyes.
This version lacks the image of a hanged man, instead relying on keeping score as to the number of attempts it took each player to fill in the blanks.
A Void, the English translation of another, considerably later, French novel, having the 'no e' restriction in both languages.
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
Cathy Duffy Reviews described the game as a simple activity that reinforces spelling and vocabulary skills.
"Single-Snaps" are linear combinations of letters that form one word, while "Multi-Snaps" are combinations that form two or more words.
Each player picks and writes down a secret word and attempts to guess the other's word first during their turn.
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
Eventually no boycott was declared and the Vatican stayed officially silent about the film, unlike its condemnation of The Da Vinci Code.
The graph of the complete word contains a subgraph which is a subdivision of the non-planar graph K3,3, and as such is itself non-planar.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
infinitive for verbs, nominative for nouns, etc.) may not be made-up or a proper name, and no previous word may be repeated.
Businesses Gag names can also be applied to businesses, such as Howard Stern's use of the fictitious "Sofa King": in a hoax advertisement, the store was described as being "Sofa King great" (i.e.
Since then the term has mostly been confined to analysis of Biblical rhetoric, and it has never migrated to general public usage.
Shepard Smith, on his evening news program The FOX Report with Shepard Smith on July 10, 2012, described London officials' quoted "overall strategery" in placing anti-aircraft missiles on apartment buildings during the London Olympics.
A perfect pangram is an example of a heterogram, with the added restriction that it uses all the letters of the alphabet.
Anomia Press released multiple expansions of Anomia, including Anomia Party Edition in 2013, Anomia X and Anomia Kids in 2017, Anomia 2.0 in 2021, and Anomia Pop Culture in 2022, each of which added new categories to the game.
In January 2018, bus passengers allege that Border Patrol agents boarded a Greyhound bus in Florida and demanded U.S.
If you guess PEACH and the secret word is PHIAL, the response would be 1 – the P is an exact match, but the A and the H are not.
Dabble is an anagram word game designed by George Weiss, who was 84 years old at the time, and published by INI, LLC in 2011.
Most editions of the game use game board to keep track of points, with each team moving their Scoring Peg on the point track after each of their turns.
History In the Renaissance, several artists tried to establish a sequence of up to seven primary colors from which all other colors could be mixed.
Historic rhymes One example of a historic rhyme (i.e., one that was a true rhyme but is now an eye rhyme) is the following: The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
Alternatively, objects can be named in any alphabetical order, but without repeating an earlier starting letter.
With some mental effort however, they can be dissolved in such a way that a rational person can justifiably ignore them.
The nominal value or minimum sale price for an item can be listed on a tag for the salesperson's reference while being visible but meaningless to the customer.
Expressed more abstractly, the individual colour-instances (the green of a leaf, the similar green of a frog) all partake in the same idea of green.
Lexiko was played with a set of 100 square cardboard tiles, with the same letter distribution later used by Scrabble (see Scrabble letter distributions), but no board.
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
There are other examples of vowelless sentences in Czech and Slovak, such as prd krt skrz drn, zprv zhlt hrst zrn, meaning 'a mole farted through grass, having swallowed a handful of grains'.
See also Alliteration Announcer's test Barbara's Rhubarb Bar Malapropism Spoonerism Theophilus Thistle References External links Interview with MIT researcher Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel
Psychologist Carl Jung wrote in his 1960 book Synchronicity that there was a "sometimes quite grotesque coincidence between a man's name and his peculiarities".
In 1968, Jack Webb guested on The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson and took part in a parody of Dragnet.
For example: [ ( 1 + 2 ) ÷ ( 3 + 4 ) ] + 5 = ( 3 ÷ 7 ) + 5 {\displaystyle {\bigl [}(1+2)\div (3+4){\bigr ]}+5=(3\div 7)+5} Special cases Unary minus sign There are differing conventions concerning the unary operation '−' (usually pronounced "minus").
The object of the game is to form horizontal and vertical words by placing letter blocks in crossword fashion on your side of the frame while blocking the formation of words on the opposite side.
The playing space is a dark blue vertical frame, held upright by two detachable black feet, with 11 x 11 square holes with 75 wooden block lettered playing pieces available to place within that frame.
Radio Episodes of Car Talk followed their actual staff credits with a much longer list of pun-based fictional ones, varying from episode to episode but usually concluding with an "Erasmus B.
"Your papers, please" (or "papers, please") is an expression or trope associated with police state functionaries demanding identification from civilians during random stops or at checkpoints.
Derivation The addition of the t results in consonant clusters that do not occur in Ikwerre or other local languages.
It maintained this meaning in Spanish nimio, but it was also misinterpreted as "insignificant, without importance".
(سلام و علیکو ائ یار قدیمی) Bgofto dokhtarak bose' va me de (بگفتو دخترک یگ بوسئ وه مه ده) maga kuri ke bābāyom nadidi?
Reception Cryptmaster received "generally favorable reviews" according to review aggregator website Metacritic, scoring a 77/100 on the site.
You can trap the next player directly or help the next player by playing a word that allows them to trap the next player.
Any number of words in the answer is allowed as long as the first word starts with the correct letter.
The total number of letters is eight on Wednesdays and Thursdays, nine on Fridays and ten on Saturdays, and answers must be at least four letters long on those days.
Nofon èfe fafacifilefe, afanchefe peferchèfe vafa defettofo ifil pifiùfu vefelofocefe pofossifibifilefe Its translation in Italian is: Questo è un esempio di frase in alfabeto farfallino.
For example Psalm 9 and Psalm 10 appear to constitute a single acrostic psalm, but the length assigned to each letter is unequal, five of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet are not represented and the sequence of two letters is reversed.
George Berkeley, for example, argued against universals or Abstract objects using nominalistic arguments.
This is similar to the traditional Chinese practice of representing sounds by two characters known as fanqie.
Over the years, many different versions of the board game have appeared: As well as the New Alias, the Alias family currently also includes the Junior Alias for children, the Alias travel game, and as the newest introduction, DVD Alias.
It also supplies users with information on how to handle a traffic stop, including their legal rights and "best practices" for "how to be safe".
See also The New York Times Games – Casual games by The New York Times References External links Spelling Bee – Official site Glossary of Spelling Bee Terms - Official New York Times guide to Spelling Bee and definition of terms
Towards the 8th century of Rome, the letters assumed their artistic forms and lost their older, narrower ones.
[Italics in original] Bullinger gives the following example: one may say to another, “You are like a beast.” This would be simile, tamely stating a fact.
History Kangaroo words were originally popularized as a word game by Ben O'Dell in an article for The American Magazine, volume 151, during the 1950s, later reprinted in Reader's Digest.
The version of the game in which countries, cities, states, rivers, lakes, or capitals are used is called geography, and a generalized version with place names is called atlas.
Definitions In the 12th century, Rashid al-Din Vatvat defined īhām as follows: "Īhām in Persian means to create doubt.
The phrase was popularized as the first line in the classic 1942 movie Casablanca which depicted life in Vichy-controlled Casablanca during World War II.
Horizontal axis When the reflecting surface is horizontal (like a mirroring lake for example), the calligraphic design is a horizontal axis mirror ambigram.
In the 1993 video game Kirby's Adventure, the initial letters of the names of each of the seven worlds spell "ROYGBIV" backwards.
Words for transcendent ideas in the Platonic sense are often capitalized, especially when used in a religious context.
Though not palindromic in the mathematical sense, they read frontward and backward like real ambigrams.
Bilingual homophonous poetry, where the poem makes sense in two different languages at the same time, constituting two simultaneous homophonous poems.
Also there is another type of šatrovački, where the words are reconstructed by addition of letter P followed by the vowel preceding the inserted P after each syllable.
Unusually, Williams has a separate contest for each semester, and thus its 84th game took place in May 2008.
Borgmann has since been referred to as the "Father of Logology" and his book is credited with ushering in a "golden age of wordplay".
Cassius Caecinianus, which has the following inscription: AX, BV, CT, DS, ER, FQ, GP, HO, IN, LM Jerome explained this similarity.
Visual communication Because they are visual puns, ambigrams generally attract attention, and thus can be used in visual communication to broadcast a marketing or political message.
Dumb crambo Cryptic crossword, for a type of clue based on this game Pictionary, a game inspired by charades where players draw words or phrases Concept Notes References Baynes, T.
According to this theory, it is tropes — including both individual qualities and events — that serve as the truthmakers for true atomic sentences such as "John is hot" or "Mary is loved by John" or "John kicked Bill".
My eyes have grown dim over books; believing in geological periods, cave dwellers, Chinese Dynasties, and the fixed stars has prematurely aged me.
Pressing a button starts a loud ticking and, after a random time interval, the sound of an explosion.
In each turn, they guess a five-letter word; once the player finishes, each letter is colored based on how accurate the player's guess is.
A quip is an observation or saying that has some wit but perhaps descends into sarcasm, or otherwise is short of a point.
Publication history Outburst was originally created in 1986 by Brian Hersch and published by his Los Angeles game company Hersch and Company.
The game has been compared with Scrabble and Boggle; in WordZap, players race to make proper English words to fill their rack of words, but when one player makes a word already found by the other player, the word is "zapped" from both players' racks.
In English Philosophical, religious, and political terms A particular example of where capitonyms are prominent is in terminology relating to philosophy, religion, and politics.
An interlingual homograph is a word that occurs in more than one written language, but which has a different meaning or pronunciation in each language.
These expressions, such as "holy cow" and "kick the bucket" carry meanings and cultural implications that only a native speaker would understand.
Eight The number 8 (八, pinyin: bā; Cantonese Yale: baat) sounds like "發" (pinyin: fā; Cantonese Yale: faat; lit.
The player whose turn it is may — instead of adding a letter — challenge the previous player to prove that the current fragment is actually the beginning of a word.
Together with introducing syllabo-accentual metres, masculine rhymes began to occur in Polish poetry.
One can voluntarily jump back and forth between the rival readings usually by shifting one's physical point of view (moving the design in some way) but sometimes by simply altering one's perceptual bias towards a design (clicking an internal mental switch, so to speak).
Schwartz, the CEO of Sun Microsystems, sent an email to Sun employees on the completion of the acquisition of Sun by Oracle Corporation.
It is often used as an example of such a phrase when learning Czech or Slovak as a foreign language.
Espy discovered Word Ways in 1972, and eventually used material from several dozen articles in his Almanac of Words at Play anthologies.
Rosarigasino (also known as Gasó) is a language game (in the form of a rhyming slang) traditionally associated with the city of Rosario, province of Santa Fe, Argentina, even though very few people, if any, currently employ it.
Of note is a 2003 study by Darryl Francis which investigated Borgmann's assertion that the name "Torpenhow Hill" is a quadruple etymological tautology.
Legman dismissed the "clean" limerick as a "periodic fad and object of magazine contests, rarely rising above mediocrity".
Based on the principle of Scrabble, it allows players to play games with up to 30 friends and random opponents simultaneously.
An example of phono-semantic rhyming slang is the Cockney sorrowful tale 'jail', in which case the person coining the slang term sees a semantic link, sometimes jocular, between the Cockney expression and its referent.
The term sobriquet is equally applicable as a name for a person, group of people, historical event, or place.
1, contains the passage,"Get the Maids to Crambo in an Evening, and learn the knack of Rhyming." Etymology The name comes from the Latin crambe and Greek κράμβη krámbē, meaning "cabbage" (as in crambe repetita (Juvenal, satire 7, 154), literally meaning "re-stewed cabbage").
The OUI–NON ambigram is installed on the Place du Rhône, in Geneva, Switzerland, at the top of a metal pole.
The Hungarian station Class FM uses a variation of the game in their morning zoo program Morning Show.
Applications of this "art of ambiguity" or "amphibology" include texts that can be read as descriptions of earthly or divine love.
It is similar to Antakshari, the Sistanian Baas-o-Beyt, the Malayalam Aksharaslokam and, more generally, the British Crambo.
In Spanish dar (basic meaning "to give"), when applied to lessons or subjects, can mean "to teach", "to take classes" or "to recite", depending on the context.
Wordplay The surname is noted for its humorous spelling, leading to it often being misprounced as "Cock-burn," sometimes intentionally for humour.
Jackbox Games has produced multiple editions of Fibbage, a game in which the players use their mobile devices to choose categories, write fake answers, and vote for the real answers.
Reviews Currently endorsed by Oxford University's Bodleian Library and the British Library (London), which both receive a royalty for each game sold, Ex Libris has been described as "fantastically tricky" and "boring-sounding (but actually extremely entertaining)".
In traditional Chinese history and other Chinese dialect groups like the Teochew people, the number 4 is considered a very lucky and auspicious number.
Million Dollar Password CBS picked up a new version of the show entitled Million Dollar Password, hosted by Regis Philbin, which premiered on June 1, 2008, and ran for 12 episodes over two seasons.
In this case, the letters are inscribed in the Lombardic script of the 1260s and the complete structure would probably have stood near the high altar .
Some rounds may have a specific topic that the answers should fit, although enforcement of the topic depends on solely on the other players' willingness to vote for off-topic answers.
In an alternative variation, the first player describes the minister's cat with an adjective beginning with the letter 'A', the second with the letter 'B' and so forth, going around the circle.
{\displaystyle (1+2)\times 3=3\times 3=9.} Exponentiation before multiplication, multiplication before subtraction: 1 − 2 × 3 4 = 1 − 2 × 81 = 1 − 162 = − 161.
The winner is the player who posed the word with the difficult ending; he gets to start the next round.
An instantiated universal is a property (such as being green) that can exist in multiple locations at the same time.
If a wild card with two symbols is flipped, the card is placed next to the draw pile and those two symbols are considered to match until another wild card is flipped and replaces it.
WordBrain is a word game acquired by Swedish game developer MAG Interactive and released through them on July 19, 2015 for iOS, Android and Windows phone platforms.
Recognition Wonderword has done puzzles that have caught the attention of Boeing, Swarovski and Bill O'Reilly among others.
The "father" of the Irish bull is often said to be Sir Boyle Roche, who once asked "Why should we put ourselves out of our way to do anything for posterity, for what has posterity ever done for us?".
He noted that, although the most popular games were of the first two (e.g., chess and backgammon), the best letter game readily available was Anagrams.
In BreakAway, the player is given a 4x4x4 cube of letters and must find word combinations to remove letters.
When a player has accumulated 100 penalty points over any number of rounds, they are eliminated from the game, and the last player remaining is the winner.
Both entries cite Katalin Lázár's ethnographical work Népi Játékgyűjtemény ("Folk Game Collection").
The game antakshari (ant means end, akshar means letter), played in India, Pakistan and Nepal also involves chaining, but with verses of movie songs (usually Bollywood songs).
Thackeray's scenes—even those said to be "in pantomime"—included dialogue from the actors but truly "dumb" or "mime charades" gradually became more popular as well and similarly dropped their descriptive adjectives.
Designed for two to four players, the game has one participant select a secret word each round, which the others attempt to guess following Wordle's standard rules.
Notable players Samuel Pepys recorded playing in his diary entry of Saturday 19 May 1660: "From thence to the Hague again playing at crambo in the waggon, Mr.
Points are earned by making "Snaps" - valid combinations of letters that form a word or words with the ones already found on the board.
In many cases the problems are bona fide word puzzles, such as challenges to deduce orthographic, phonetic, semantic, or etymological patterns in word lists, or to generate word lists of a given pattern.
Individual house rules may vary when playing Fictionary, but play usually proceeds like this: One player, the "picker" for the turn, chooses an obscure word from the dictionary and announces and spells it to the other players.
The various ways of expressing the idiom (acting, spelling, drawing, shouting) are also determined by the roll of a separate die with icons corresponding to the various means of expressing the idioms.
The rules used by experienced players can be more stringent, such as allowing the use of only one poet's verses or of one theme.
While traditional Japanese haiku usually has 3 phrases of 5, 7, and 5 on ("sound symbols"), haiku in English usually has seventeen (or fewer) syllables.
(Alain Brobecker) (19, missing C, H, J, K, Q, W, and X) In German "Fix, Schwyz!", quäkt Jürgen blöd vom Paß.
Most of Bergerson's other original palindromes are credited not to himself but rather to Edwin Fitzpatrick, a fictitious 19th-century poet.
Šatrovački (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtroʋatʃkiː]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатровачки) or šatra (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtra]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатра) is an argot within the Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian languages comparable to verlan in French or vesre in Spanish.
Brazil also had a show in the 1960s and again from 2012 to 2013 called Let's Play Hangman, hosted by Silvio Santos.
In another convention, perhaps first proposed by typographer Choz Cunningham in 2006, the tilde is placed after the period.
In 1932, the Egyptian Ministry of Education released a manifesto titled Crown Letters and Punctuation Marks and Their Positions of Use, which thoroughly explained the script and was very likely the first book ever written in Crown script.
Guinea language orthography The Guinea alphabet made use of several digraphs (including either "h" or "y" as the second letter), some of which represent consonants not present in European languages, and two diacritics (grave accent and diaeresis) for open vowels.
Some textbooks of New Testament Greek for foreigners have retained the breathings, but dropped all the accents in order to simplify the task for the learner.
So in words of French origin like Orange (orange), logieren (to lodge) or Etage (floor), the g is pronounced as [ʒ]; words taken from English like Gin or Gender use the /dʒ/-sound.
The Greek language question (Greek: το γλωσσικό ζήτημα, to glossikó zítima) was a dispute about whether the vernacular of the Greek people (Demotic Greek) or a cultivated literary language based on Ancient Greek (Katharevousa) should be the prevailing language of the people and government of Greece.
437 “Issues of Ukrainian Orthography”, which approved a new version of “Ukrainian Orthography” allegedly due to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine did not have the appropriate competence.
When according to the rules below, a hamza with an alif seat would occur before an alif which represents the vowel ā, a single alif is instead written with the maddah symbol over it.
Mixtures It is acceptable in Spanish to begin a sentence with an opening upside-down exclamation mark ("¡") and end it with a question mark ("?"), or vice versa, for statements that are questions but also have a clear sense of exclamation or surprise such as: ¡Y tú quién te crees?
In metrical texts, a double daṇḍa is used to delimit verses, and a single daṇḍa to delimit a pada, line, or semi-verse.
History The rule of nine for spelling words of foreign language origin was first formulated in 1913 by the authors of the grammar of the Ruthenian language, Stepan Smal-Stotsky and Theodor Gartner, modeled on a similar rule for the Polish language.
A phonemic orthography is an orthography in which the graphemes correspond consistently to the language's phonemes, or more generally to the language's diaphonemes.
Soon after his wife Devora's death, three of his children died of diphtheria within a period of 10 days.
Ch also occurs as a digraph in certain words but it is not considered as a grapheme on its own right in terms of collation.
When a hyphen is called for, the hyphen-minus is a common choice as it is well known, easy to enter on keyboards, and still the only form recognized by many data formats and computer languages.
While majuscule scripts were originally used to write entire texts, their letters eventually came to be used primarily with the modern function of uppercase letters in European writing, so the term may sometimes be used as a synonym of 'uppercase letter' or 'capital' in contemporary contexts.
Those who prefer lower case claim their preferences gives greater legibility." Wheildon, who informs us that "When a person reads a line of type, the eye recognizes letters by the shapes of their upper halves", asserts that recognizing words in all caps "becomes a task instead of a natural process".
Using this program, kindergarten and 1st-grade students progressed much faster in reading skills than students receiving business-as-usual instruction.
At the same time, everyday writing was carried out in a cursive variant of the block capitals, which during the Middle Ages evolved into new letterforms for use in running text that were more legible and faster to write with an ink pen, such as Carolingian minuscule.
Indicating initialisms In initialisms, the Geresh is written after the last letter of the initialism.
Modern use The pilcrow remains in use in modern documents in the following ways: In legal writing, it is often used whenever one cites a specific paragraph within pleadings, law review articles, statutes, or other legal documents and materials.
It is generally agreed that the two systems were invented independently from one another; both evolved from proto-writing systems between 3400 and 3100 BC, with the earliest coherent texts dated c.
Shallow orthographies, such as Italian and Finnish, have a close relationship between graphemes and phonemes, and the spelling of words is very consistent.
Without short vowels or geminate consonants being written, modern Arabic script نظر nẓr could represent نَظَرَ /naðˤara/ 'he saw', نَظَّرَ /naðˤːara/ 'he compared', نُظِرَ /nuðˤira/ 'he was seen', نُظِّرَ /nuðˤːira/ 'he was compared', نَظَر /naðˤar/ 'a glance', or نِظْر /niðˤr/ 'similar'.
The particle ⟨не⟩ and the preposition ⟨без⟩ are written unchanged, independently of pronunciation: ⟨не быў⟩, instead of ⟨ня быў⟩; and ⟨без мамы⟩, instead of ⟨бяз мамы⟩ (compare with English definite article "the").
External links Works by Giovanni Giorgio Trissino at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Gian Giorgio Trissino at the Internet Archive Gallo, Valentina (2019).
Vowel diacritics Like Urdu, Shahmukhi also has diacritics, which are implied - a convention retained from the original Arabic script, to express short vowels.
Words which begin with ڑ are exceedingly rare, but some have been documented in Shahmukhi dictionaries such as Iqbal Salahuddin's Waddi Punjabi Lughat.
Historically, Icelandic text was supported by ISO 8859-1, followed by Windows-1252, which added various characters unrelated to Icelandic.
The common hijāʾī sequence, read from right to left, is: Persian uses a slightly different order, in which و comes before ه instead of after it.
Physiological background The brain Using positron emission tomography (PET) scans and event-related potentials, researchers have located two separate areas in the fusiform gyrus that respond specifically to strings of letters.
Within each example sentence, the parenthetical phrase is the portion that is displayed in an italic font.
Kodava Takk is generally written in the Kannada script, but can also be found written in the Malayalam script, especially along the borders with Kerala.
The original sound value is a voiceless bilabial plosive /p/ and it retains this value in most Semitic languages, except for Arabic, where the sound /p/ changed into the voiceless labiodental fricative /f/, carrying with it the pronunciation of the letter.
Thus, in addition to the various versions below, the name of Hǫðr could come out as: Hod, Hoðr, Hödhr, Hödr, Höd, Höð, Hoð, etcetera List of names A list of some commonly encountered Old Norse names with variant spellings.
It is called a "parenthetical" phrase even when it is not delimited by any brackets (such as round – [or square] – brackets).
⟨lipid⟩, ⟨limit⟩ but ⟨wining⟩, ⟨winning⟩ Disambiguation of graphemes Where graphemes ambiguously represent more than one sound, they are rewritten to be less ambiguous.
There were several sounds that were unfamiliar to European languages, like the implosive b and d, the ejective y, the velar n (in the initial position), prenasalised consonants, and long vowels.
Of these two scholars, the Rolbiidorj’s numerals, their names and sequencing are commonly accepted and used today, for example, in the calculations and documents pertaining to the Mongolian Government budget.
Phonetic spelling The following table lays out Gill's proposed system of phonetic spelling: Word-final 'ü' is sometimes spelt 'u', as in 'tu chanʒ'.
Eth is also used in Faroese and Elfdalian, while thorn was used in many historical languages such as Old English.
Guest editor-authors have included Colin Banks, John Cage, Adrian Frutiger, Dick Higgins, Richard Kostelanetz, Craig Saper, and George Steiner.
For example bāʾ (ب), tāʾ (ت), thāʾ (ث) are grouped as they have the same base shape or rasm (ٮ) and are differentiated only by consonant pointing known as iʻjām.
A capitonym is a word that changes its meaning (and sometimes pronunciation) when it is capitalized; the capitalization usually applies due to one form being a proper noun or eponym.
Other uses In proofreading, the undertie was used to indicate that word in a manuscript had been divided incorrectly by a space.
Among the longest are "hILLBILLIES" and "SLEIghBELLS" at 11, "gLOSSOLOgIES" and "BIBLIOLOgIES" at 12 letters, and "hEEBEEgEEBEES" at 13 letters, although the latter is not listed under that spelling in the Oxford Dictionary.
In particular, he said, the \ was needed so that the ALGOL Boolean operators ∧ (logical conjunction) and ∨ (logical disjunction) could be composed using /\ and \/ respectively.
Some scholars treat Tartessian as a redundant semi-syllabary, with essentially syllabic glyphs followed by the letter for the corresponding vowel; others treat it as a redundant alphabet, with the choice of an essentially consonantal character decided by the following vowel.
The change began in the 7th century, and by the 14th century, the protoscholastic model was the standard.
In Croatian, it is most often referred to by the English word at (pronounced et), and less commonly and more formally, with the preposition pri (with the addressee in the nominative case, not locative as per usual rection of pri), meaning 'at', 'chez' or 'by'.
There have been manifold discussions and studies concerning the interpretation and translation since the master handcopy by François Thureau-Dangin was published in 1922.
A second lacuna in Italian's shallow orthography is that, although stress position in words is only very partially predictable, it is normally not indicated in writing.
Conversely, in the languages of Western Europe, the dot (formally, tittle) on a lower-case ⟨i⟩ is not a glyph in itself because it does not convey any distinction, and an |ı| in which the dot has been accidentally omitted is still likely to be recognized correctly.
This may create difficulties for plain-text search, unless it uses a conforming Unicode collation algorithm (UCA) with the appropriate tailoring for the Hebrew script, where these controls are assigned ignorable weights after the initial normalization.
Characters similar to apostrophe U+0027 ' APOSTROPHE U+0060 ` GRAVE ACCENT U+00B4 ´ ACUTE ACCENT U+02B9 ʹ MODIFIER LETTER PRIME U+02BB ʻ MODIFIER LETTER TURNED COMMA Hawaiian ʻokina and for the transliteration of Arabic and Hebrew ʻayn.
Word processors Professional desktop publishing applications supporting genuine small caps include Quark XPress, and Adobe Creative Suite applications.
Modern Hebrew uses the forms פ כ‎ finally, when transcribing a plosive pronunciation, for example מיקרוסקופ‎ (microscope), מובארכ‎ (Mubarak, مبارك), while their final forms ף ך‎, are transcribing a fricative pronunciation, for example כך‎ (Kach), שף‎ (Chef).
In MacOS When using the US keyboard, a bullet point character can be produced by pressing 8 while keeping Option(Alt) pressed.
In languages using the ISO basic Latin alphabet, terminal punctuation marks are defined as the period, the question mark, and the exclamation mark.
For example, in German, where all nouns are capitalized, there are many pairs such as Laut 'sound' ~ laut 'loud' or Morgen 'morning' ~ morgen 'tomorrow'.
Historiated initial A historiated initial is an initial, an enlarged letter at the beginning of a paragraph or other section of text, that contains a picture.
In spoken Chinese, a single syllable is used in many different words, and a Chinese child must cope with having many written characters that represent the same syllable.
All communication is achieved through the use of symbols: for example, a red octagon is a common symbol for "STOP"; on maps, blue lines often represent rivers; and a red rose often symbolizes love and compassion.
The orthography of Greek includes several digraphs, including various pairs of vowel letters that used to be pronounced as diphthongs but have been shortened to monophthongs in pronunciation.
by De Saussure) connect *dhu̯es- "smoke, spirit", attested in Baltic and Germanic words for "spook" and ultimately cognate with Latin fumus "smoke." The earliest attested form of the word is the Mycenaean Greek te-o (plural te-o-i), written in Linear B syllabic script.
Orthographic similarities Does not use ض‎, ص‎, ز‎, ذ‎, خ‎, ث‎, ظ‎ , these characters are only used for Arabic loanwords across all systems Always uses diacritics for vowels, which is rare among non-African Arabic writing systems which usually imply vowels.
In the modern languages, there is sometimes a stronger contrast from Old Gaelic in the assumed meaning of "broad" and "slender"; the phonetic distinction can be more complex than mere "velarisation"/"palatalisation".
Pronouns referring to a god are also often capitalized by adherents to a religion as an indication of reverence, and are traditionally in the masculine gender ("He", "Him", "His" etc) unless specifically referring to a goddess.
In 2006, the society called for apostrophes to be used in the names of Harrods, Selfridges, and Currys.
See also Japanese typographic symbols References External links Media related to Iteration marks at Wikimedia Commons
The rarity of pre-Hispanic baybayin texts has led to a common misconception that fanatical Spanish priests must have destroyed the majority of native documents.
The conference was conducted and hosted by the National Office of International Promotion of Chinese Language and Board of Language Usage & Applications of the Ministry of Education of China.
Several scholars have argued that the syllable block structure is a good fit for the phonology and speech cadence of Korean.
Furthermore, loanwords assimilated into the Ukrainian language are often written according to their pronunciation, rather than necessarily following the rule of nine, such as бурмистер (but бургомістр), вимпел, єхидна, імбир, кипарис, and лиман.
A codification of the rules of Russian orthography and punctuation and the Spelling Dictionary of the Russian Language were published in 1956 but only a few minor orthographic changes were introduced at that time.
Attempts to apply such an alphabet for the Nivkh language, which is not related to Nanai, can only be considered as a curiosity.
In Maltese alphabet the digraphs GĦ and IE are treated as single letters, and each is listed after the first character of the pair.
In an essay entitled "For Brevity And Clarity", published in 1887, Ambrose Bierce facetiously proposed the "snigger point" or "note of cachinnation": It is written thus ◡ and represents, as nearly as may be, a smiling mouth.
Pedro Chirino, a Spanish priest and Antonio de Morga noted in 1604 and 1609 that most Filipino men and women could read baybayin.
Various old features, like ⟨ð⟩, had not seen much use in the later centuries, so Rask's standard constituted a major change in practice.
More than 40,000 words were written on the article's talk page (a page for editors to discuss changes to the article) before a consensus was reached to capitalize the "I".
Some Christians changed their profile pictures to the letter ن as a symbol of support, calling it the "Mark of the Nazarene".
Capitalization (American English) or capitalisation (Commonwealth English) is the practice of writing a word with its first letter as a capital letter (uppercase letter) and the remaining letters in lower case, in writing systems with a case distinction.
Options for Overline are available under the menu: "Format > Character", enabling the default solid Overline to be replaced with double overline, dots, dashes, waves, double waves, and the color of the Overline can be set.
Symbolic action may overlap with symbolic speech, such as the use of flag burning to express hostility or saluting the flag to express patriotism.
Hebrew In the Hebrew alphabet the final form is called sofit (Hebrew: סופית, meaning "final" or "ending").
See also Cave Beck Constructed language Emoji Engineered language Ideogram Jacob Linzbach Joseph de Maimieux Philosophical language == References ==
Characters in red are only used in loanwords from Arabic, and characters in green are characters unique to Ajami.
The difference between this form was the use of the letter Ҥ ҥ instead of the standard Ӈ ӈ , use of additional characters Ҕ ҕ, Һ һ, Ү ү, Ө ө, Дь дь, Нь нь (Ү ү was not officially entered into the alphabet, but was used in practice), and also the display long vowels by doubling them.
Mem (also spelled Meem, Meme, or Mim) is the thirteenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Hebrew mēm מ‎, Aramaic mem 𐡌, Syriac mīm ܡ, Arabic mīm م‎, and Phoenician mēm 𐤌.
IBM code page 850 (an MS-DOS character set covering all ISO 8859-1 characters) placed it at position 240 = 0xF0.
Min Dong Foochow Romanized Min Bei Kienning Colloquial Romanized Japanese Romanization (or, more generally, Roman letters) is called "rōmaji" in Japanese.
For example, a silent ⟨e⟩ usually indicates the soft pronunciation, as in change; this may be maintained before a suffix to indicate this pronunciation (as in changeable), despite the rule that usually drops this letter.
The alphabet has since been superseded by the adoption of the Filipino alphabet (with an additional eight letters and repositioning of the letter K) in 1987.
The Unicode standard recommends using this character also in other Indic scripts, like Bengali, Telugu, Oriya, and others.
The Ministry of Education's manifesto specified that Crown Letters may be used with Naskh and Rok’a scripts.
Phonemic orthographies have the highest possible level of orthographic depth, as they have exact grapheme to phoneme correspondence.
Although Modern Mandarin has numerous polysyllabic words, and each syllable is written with a distinct character, the conceptual link between character and word or at least morpheme remains strong, and no need is felt for word separation apart from what characters already provide.
Protoscholastic writing refers to the period in the Middle Ages when writing styles changed from liturgical models, mere adjuncts to the recitation of prayer, to a more complex form.
So, for example, p {\displaystyle p} is the price of the home good and p ∗ {\displaystyle p^{*}} is the price of the foreign good, etc.
Matthijs Siegenbeek (Dutch pronunciation: [mɑˈtɛis ˈsiɣə(m)ˌbeːk]; 23 June 1774 in Amsterdam – 26 November 1854 in Leiden) was a Dutch academic.
Historically, the dinkus was often represented as an asterism, ⁂, though this has fallen out of favor and is now nearly obsolete.
Other examples given are the replacement of Sainte by "Saint" to accommodate the French adjective in its feminine form; or Archives in journal titles by "Archive".
The bowl on the left side can be filled or empty, and occasionally extends far enough downward that the character resembles a mirrored D.
Native descriptions of Cyrillic writing system often use the term "digraph" to combinations ⟨ьо⟩ and ⟨йо⟩ (Bulgarian, Ukrainian) as they both correspond to a single letter ⟨ё⟩ of Russian and Belarusian alphabets (⟨ьо⟩ is used for /ʲo/, and ⟨йо⟩ for /jo/).
It was used much in the same way by later scholars to mark differences between various translations or versions of the Bible and other manuscripts.
The Pe̍h-ōe-jī of Taiwanese Hokkien and Pha̍k-fa-sṳ of Taiwanese Hakka were also created with by the western missionaries.
Geresh (׳‎ in Hebrew: גֶּרֶשׁ‎ or גֵּרֶשׁ‎ [ˈɡeʁeʃ], or medieval [ˈɡeːɾeːʃ]) is a sign in Hebrew writing.
A dinkus dividing a larger section is intended is to maintain a sense of continuity within the overall chapter or section while changing elements of the setting or timeline.
Ideographic runes appear to have mainly been used for saving space, but they were also mainly used without inflection.
Heffernan recalls that, in 1949, her family moved to work in the Jervois Range, far east and towards the Queensland border, where her father had gotten a job with Kurt Johannsen working on a copper mine which had been abandoned.
The DZ and IJ digraphs and the Serbian/Croatian digraphs DŽ, LJ, and NJ have separate code points in Unicode.
Modern use In a manuscript (or typescript) to be typeset, various forms of underlining (see below) were therefore conventionally used to indicate that text should be set in special type such as italics, part of a procedure known as markup.
Hieratic continued to be used by the priestly class for religious texts and literature into the third century CE.
These are some of the most functional of the rune names, occurring relatively often in written language, unlike the elusive peorð, for example, which would be of little or no use as an abbreviation because of its rarity.
Variable names: Some programming languages are case-sensitive for their variable names while others are not.
Forster, and Somerset Maugham, she says: "Done knowingly by an established writer, the comma splice is effective, poetic, dashing.
The most likely explanation for the absence of final consonant markers in baybayin is therefore that its direct ancestor was a South Sulawesi script.
With the advent of Unicode and more easily customized computer keyboards, the need for such workarounds has lessened.
Children learning to read do not immediately realize that allographs represent the same character; the skills develop over the initial years of reading instruction.
Modes for other languages Since the publication of the first official description of the Tengwar at the end of The Lord of the Rings, others have created modes for other languages such as English, Spanish, German, Swedish, French, Finnish, Italian, Hungarian and Welsh.
Italian giorno, French mangeons), though Spanish, Portuguese, French and Catalan use ⟨j⟩ as in jueves.
This system was widely used within the country but differed from the orthographies of neighboring countries of West Africa, as developed in the wake of the 1966 Bamako expert meeting on harmonizing orthographies of the cross-border languages of the region.
In December 2019, when Richards was 95, he announced that the society was shutting down, saying that, despite its efforts, "fewer organisations and individuals are now caring about the correct use of the apostrophe".
The hypodiastole was similar in appearance to the comma and was eventually entirely conflated with it.
Additionally, the letter "i" is used after these nine consonants if it appears at the end of an uninflected loanword, such as колібрі, парі, фрі, and таксі, though таксист is an exception to this rule.
The other main difference is in the fourth tyellë below, where those letters with raised stems and doubled bows can be either voiced fricatives, as in Sindarin (general mode at right), or nasalized stops, as in Quenya (classical mode).
In Ada 2022, @ is the target name symbol, an abbreviation of the LHS of an assignment; it is used to avoid repetition of potentially long names in assignment statements.
The obelos symbol (see obelus) gets its name from the spit, or sharp end of a lance in ancient Greek.
In this context it may be called a "continued line" as the current line continues into the next one.
Hokkien In Pe̍h-ōe-jī for Taiwanese Hokkien, middle dot is often used as a workaround for the dot above right diacritic, since most early encoding systems did not support this diacritic.
The Unicode character ’ (U+2019 right single quotation mark) is used for both a typographic apostrophe and a single right (closing) quotation mark.
The Fernaig manuscript (Scottish Gaelic: Làmh-sgrìobhainn Fheàrnaig or Làmh-sgrìobhainn MhicRath) is a document containing approximately 4,200 lines of verse consisting largely of political and religious themes.
The transliteration of Greek names follows Latin transliteration of Ancient Greek; modern transliteration is different, and does not distinguish many letters and digraphs that have merged by iotacism.
Rarely in Assyrian cuneiform, but commonly in the later cuneiform Ugaritic alphabet, a vertical stroke 𒑰 was used to separate words.
A particular system's characteristics may make it better-suited for various, sometimes contradictory applications, including document retrieval, linguistic analysis, easy readability, faithful representation of pronunciation.
Romanization standards include the following: Arabic Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft (1936): Adopted by the International Convention of Orientalist Scholars in Rome.
Superscript letters: Regular letters contained in the word or letters specifically for abbreviation purposes.
Parentheses have historically been used where the em dash is currently used in alternatives, such as "parenthesis)(parentheses".
However, they were covered in CR 14400:2001 "European ordering rules – Ordering for Latin, Greek, Cyrillic, Georgian and Armenian scripts".
109] In some other countries (such as England and Wales), square brackets are used to indicate that the year is part of the citation and parentheses are used to indicate the year the judgment was given.
Minimal pairs A pair of words like kátur and gátur (above) that differ only in one phone is called a minimal pair for the two alternative phones in question (in this case, [kʰ] and [k]).
Examples of this would include any continuous reading material, posters, bus cards, billboards, magazine advertising copy, headings in books, business forms and records, titles of articles, books and book chapters, and newspaper headlines.
The last country to maintain it was Chile, where the norms of the Royal Spanish Academy (RAE) were adopted in 1927.
In programming languages Some programming languages are case-sensitive for their identifiers (C, C++, Java, C#, Verilog, Ruby, Python and Swift).
Even among supporters of simplification, some make the argument that Classical Chinese texts should not be printed in simplified Chinese because of the complexities involved in the use of tōngjiǎ (通假) or phonetic loan characters.
Austroasiatic languages Khmer script (for Khmer language) Khom script (for Bahnaric languages) Chữ Nôm (historical writing for Vietnamese language) Austronesian languages Most Austronesian languages use Latin script today.
Although (E) is taken as /j/, most current speakers, and likely historical speakers, pronounce it as /jᵊ/ which is represented here.
1986: Brazil invites the other six Portuguese language countries, Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Portugal and São Tomé and Príncipe, to a meeting in Rio de Janeiro to address the remaining problems.
At Batchelor she collaborated with linguist Gavan Breen and, together, they developed the Arrernte orthography.
It can also be used to indicate a spot where a character is supposed to be, but it is rarely used for other purposes.
For instance, if the user wished to write "The fog was dense", but instead put "The dog was dense", a grammar and spell checker would not notify the user because both phrases are grammatically correct, as is the spelling of the word "dog".
The difference between "macron below" and "low line" is that the latter results in an unbroken underline when it is run together: compare a̱ḇc̱ and a̲b̲c̲ (only the latter should look like abc).
The term is infrequently used, as the number of letters is usually specified: Some multigraphs are considered ligatures, or letters unto themselves, such as ⟨ij⟩ in Dutch, ⟨dzs⟩ in Hungarian, and ⟨dž⟩ in Serbo-Croatian and a few other Slavic languages.
Morris commented that the incident shows the impact small groups of Wikipedia editors can have, especially in situations more severe than a simple capitalized letter.
Sholem Aleichem is widely credited with elevating the prestige of Yiddish language as a cultured language in its own right.
Some publications claim that "Тунгусский букварь" (in English, "Tungus language children's primer (or ABC-book), written 1858), as well as the dictionary and translation of the Gospel of Matthew that followed it, were in the Evenki language.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
Smotrytskyi's "Grammar" of 1619 (17th and 18th centuries) In 1619, Meletius Smotrytskyi's work «Грамматіка славенскія правилноє синтагма» was published, where Slavic-Ukrainian writing was partially adapted to Ukrainian phonetics.
Subtitles, such as in Teletext, sometimes use an exclamation mark within parentheses, (!), to mark sarcasm.
Two modern well-known examples of syllabaries consisting mostly of CV syllabograms are the Japanese kana, used to represent the same sounds in different occasions.
The work which, despite its name, was distinct from Logonomia Anglica, probably dates from the period between the second edition of Logonomia Anglica (1621) and the Sacred Philosophie.
Capital Crown Letters are different from small letters in a sense that they possess a loop—or an upside-down لا—on top of them; letters that may connect to the next letter also connect to that loop, whereas letters that do not connect to the next letter also don't connect to that loop.
The upside-down (also inverted, turned or rotated) question mark ¿ and exclamation mark ¡ are punctuation marks used to begin interrogative and exclamatory sentences or clauses in Spanish and some languages that have cultural ties with Spain, such as Asturian and Waray.
The characters for "single" guillemets (European-style single quotation marks, ‹ and ›) are also occasionally used to indicate angle brackets, and normal guillemets (European-style double quotation marks, « and ») used when "nested" (ie, double) angle brackets are needed.
De orthographia bohemica (English: On Bohemian Orthography) is a Latin work published between 1406 and 1412.
It was sometimes added to completed texts as a form of obelism alongside other marginalia, including the obelus.
These scripts in turn gave rise to many of the most important scripts of India, including Devanāgarī (the most common script used for writing Sanskrit since the 19th century), the Gurmukhī script for Punjabi, the Bengali-Assamese script and the Tibetan script.
Example As an example, consider Aṣṭādhyāyī 6.1.77: iKaḥ yaṆ aCi: iK means i u ṛ ḷ, iKaḥ is iK in the genitive case, so it means ' in place of i u ṛ ḷ; yaṆ means the semivowels y v r l and is in the nominative, so iKaḥ yaṆ means: y v r l replace i u ṛ ḷ.
Notable English misspellings in history Arab, Alabama – This town in north Alabama was named Arad, after its founder, Arad Thompson, but the name was misspelled on a US Post Office map as "Arab", and the misspelled name stuck.
Examples of orthographic transcription are "Pushkin" and "Pouchkine", respectively the English and French orthographic transcriptions of the surname "Пу́шкин" in the name Алекса́ндр Пу́шкин (Alexander Pushkin).
Ajay Prakash Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and IT, Government of India said that India Language Stack can help overcome the barriers of communication.
This orthography is not a single standardised form, but rather a set of orthographical practices which exhibit a basic "core" of shared graphemes and a small amount of divergence in several areas.
Robert Slavin, of BEE, goes so far as to suggest that states should "hire thousands of tutors" to support students scoring far below grade level – particularly in elementary school reading.
These lists are printed in the Mikraot Gedolot (rabbinical Bible), in the texts of Baer-Delitzsch and Christian David Ginsburg's Masorah vol.
For example, among the first characters usually learned is the number one, which is written with a single horizontal line: 一.
This book included an Arte of Brachygraphie, one of the earliest attempts to construct a system of shorthand.
The DUCET is customizable for different languages, and some such customizations can be found in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR).
The second component is related to the diversity at the graphemic level, and to the complexity of determining the graphemic elements of a word (graphemic parsing), i.e., how to align a phonemic transcription to its spelling counterpart.
In previous centuries of classical scholarship, scholars who published texts from inscriptions, papyri, or manuscripts used divergent conventions to indicate the condition of the text and editorial corrections or restorations.
The first list of the scheme was put into use nationwide on 1 February 1956, followed by the rest characters in batches.
The Latin script originally had only majuscule forms directly derived from the Greek alphabet, which were originally viable for being chiseled into stone.
Misspellings of the latter type are called "atomic typos", and they can easily make their way into printed material because they are not caught by simple computer spell checkers.
Bullet operator A variant, the bullet operator (U+2219 ∙ BULLET OPERATOR), has a Unicode code point but its purpose does not appear to be documented.
During his period of priestly formation with the Society of Jesus, he studied the Breton language in order to teach the faith to the Breton peasants.
History The Sinckan Manuscripts are one of the earliest written materials of several Formosan languages, including Siraya and Taivoan.
2 = 10,4; this usage is impractical in cases where the point is used as a decimal separator, hence the use of the interpunct: 5.2 · 2 = 10.4.
In contrast, in Italian, as well as Spanish, very few words (except proper names) are capitalized, so there are extremely few, if any, such pairs.
The son-in-law of Maurice Grevisse, he took over editing and updating Grevisse's last book, Le Bon Usage.
Psalms - seven times in Psalm 107 (vs 23-28, vs 40) The images at right show three common variants of the inverted nun – vertically flipped, horizontally flipped, and Z-shaped.
In English, they are often unmarked and must therefore be memorized, or more likely deduced, as exceptions.
An obelos was placed by editors on the margins of manuscripts, especially in Homer, to indicate lines that may not have been written by Homer.
Works Grammar Logonomia Anglica, qua gentis sermo facilius addiscitur, London, by John Beale, 1619, 2nd edit.
The earliest Classical Greek and Roman texts were written in all capital letters with minimal spacing; punctuation was sparse and not standardized.
Mechanical type and the advent of the typewriter Mechanical type systems introduced near the end of the 19th century, such as the Linotype and Monotype machines, allowed for some variable sentence spacing similar to hand composition.
See also Formosan languages Taiwanese indigenous peoples Languages of Taiwan References Further reading External links Taiwanese Indigenous Ebooks Archived 2022-03-03 at the Wayback Machine: This site provides open access ebooks for the indigenous languages.
In Sanskrit, the additional symbol of two vertical lines U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA is used to mark the end of a poetic verse.
For a short time in Nikolayevsk-on-Amur, the newspaper "Nivxgu mәkәr-qlaj-d̦if" ("The Nivkh truth") was published in this alphabet.
Gender star The gender star is another recent, nonstandard typographic convention influenced by feminist linguistics.
This project differed from the alphabet created by Vasilyevich only in the inclusion of letters used only in Russian loanwords (C c, F f, J j, Ш ш, Z z), and also the usage of the letter V v instead of W w, Ç ç instead of Ч ч, as well as the exclusion of the letter Y y.
Shilha (from Colloquial Arabic Šəlḥa) is a term used to refer to a number of Berber languages spoken across northern Africa.
Hanani or Chanani (Hebrew: חֲנָנִי) is a Hebrew name which means "God has gratified me" or "God is gracious".
Its literal translation is "God's Eagle", which is interpreted as "Crown of God" or even "Glory of God" — since the crowns of traditional Igbo rulers are adorned with a tail feather of an eagle.
In Amapá, the only attested Indigenous language that went by the name was the Arawakan language Palikur.
As such, the medieval migrants to Greece and later migrants to Italy during the 15th-century are not aware of the term Shqiptar.
Siamun is an ancient Egyptian personal name for males, Manuel de Codage transliteration: s3-jmn, meaning "Son of Amun." Its female version is Sitamun.
1927), New Zealand footballer Wharton Wattie Davies (1873–1961), Welsh rugby union and rugby league footballer Peter Watt Wattie Dick (1927—2012), Scottish footballer Walter Wattie Dunphy (1896–1972), Irish hurler Walter Watty Friend (1898–c.
A leading name (German Leitname, plural Leitnamen) is a given name that is used repeatedly over several generations in a lineage or broader kin group.
While name signs were originally exclusive to deaf people, some hearing people who use ASL and interact with the deaf community also have name signs.
The name (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) occurs in the Hebrew Bible, not as the name of a king but rather the name of one of the two cities which was built for the Pharaoh of the oppression by the forced labor of the Israelites (Exodus, 1:11), the other such city being Pithom.
Giuseppe Tassini (12 November 1827 - 22 December 1899) was an Italian historian and one of the most notable scholars of the toponymy of his birthplace of Venice.
FUNAI started using the name for several Kawahib dialects, creating the current confusion in the region.
Other prominent bearers of the name are the French singer-songwriter Zazie and the German-American actress Zazie Beetz.
"Long knives" was a term used by the Iroquois, and later by the Mingo and other indigenous peoples of the Ohio Country to designate white settlers from Virginia, in contradistinction to those of New York and Pennsylvania.
During the reign of Byzantine Emperor Justin I (518–527), the Mazices plundered Egypt in conjunction with the Blemmyes.
While a number of biblical place names like Jerusalem, Athens, Damascus, Alexandria, Babylon and Rome have been used for centuries, some have changed over the years.
Xenophon describes the people of Cedreiae in Asia Minor, who were allies to Athens, as "mixobarbaroi", meaning those who were bound to treaties with Athens but were not Athenian.
Romani "gipsies" have been a recognised ethnic group for the purposes of Race Relations Act 1976 since Commission for Racial Equality v Dutton 1989, as have Irish Travellers in England and Wales since O'Leary v Allied Domecq 2000 (having already gained recognition in Northern Ireland in 1997).
1995), Dutch-born Indonesian footballer Thom Jones (1945–2016), American writer, primarily of short stories Thomas Thom Mathews (b.
After Jacob wrestles with the angel in the Book of Genesis, the Angel of the Lord tells him that his name is now Israel, because he has "struggled with God and man and prevailed" (Genesis 32:28, 35:10).
For example, term Deutschland is an endochoronym (native name) for a country that is called Germany in English.
Eleazar (Hebrew: אלעזר or Elazar, meaning "God has helped", el'azár) is a common Jewish masculine given name.
The name is sometimes associated with or derived from the word Muffin, an English term for an individual baked bun that is sometimes used as a term of endearment.
Jakati is a possibly spurious name used in the Ethnologue encyclopedia for either a Romani (Gypsies) variety of Ukraine, or for the Inku language of Afghanistan.
Names could be passed on from the paternal or maternal side, often depending on which ancestors were more prominent.
In Greek, words deriving from polis include politēs and politismos, whose exact equivalents in Latin, Romance, and other European languages, respectively civis ("citizen"), civilisatio ("civilisation"), etc., are similarly derived.
It became a loanword in other South Asian languages to give similar means, such as in Tamil in which the word is maidhanam.
Historical individuals bearing the name include: a son of Æthelfrith of Northumbria (recorded in MS E of the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle s.a.
In the Plato dialogue Menexenus, a group of "barbarians" considered themselves Greeks, but were not full-blooded Greeks, thus only "mixobarbaroi".
Fox Walt Lloyd, on the television series Lost Walt Longmire, on the television series Longmire Walt Stone, from the series The Kane Chronicles Walt Wallet, in the newspaper comic strip Gasoline Alley See also Van der Walt, a list of people with the surname
It is not until the 19th and 20th centuries that the language of Île-de-France indeed became the language of the whole country France.
Being the chief of the annual dialectological and toponymical expeditions he contributed to the creation of a huge collection of toponyms of the Northern part of Russia.
Rowling's 2001 book Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them Newt, a character in Hollyoaks Newt, in the novel The Maze Runner, the two sequels and the film trilogy based on them Newt, a character from Xenoblade Chronicles 2 See also Newt (disambiguation)
Frangistan literally means "Land of the Franks", from Farang, which is the Persianized form of Frank, plus the suffix -stan coming from the Persian language and meaning "place of", "place abounding in".
In the Christian era the word Mael was used in its place for given names such as Mael Bridget, Mael Padraig, Mael Lagan, Mael Sechlainn, and Mael Martain.
Ali, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture The History of Black People in Britain "Museum of the African Diaspora", Online exhibits and other resources from the San Francisco-based museum.
1725), also known as January Conny, European name given to an Ahanta chief from Axim, Ghana Robert Conny (1646?–1713), English physician See also Socker-Conny, a comic book character created by Joakim Pirinen Connie (disambiguation)
Such issues, related to proper formation and use of onomastic terms, have gained importance in scholarly circles, since international surveys among experts revealed the existence of several challenging issues related to the process of terminological standardization within the field.
While some individuals find the term "South Asian" inclusive and encompassing, others feel it does not fully capture their specific backgrounds.
It may refer to: People Newt Allen (1901–1988), American Negro league baseball player Newt Gingrich (born 1943), American politician and former Speaker of the House Newt H.
Crique- or -crique, from the Old Norse kirkja, meaning "church", but this should not be confused with the French term, la crique from Old Norse kriki, "creek".
Professor Kenneth Cameron wrote in an obituary for The Times that von Feilitzen "won great acclaim and affection for his outstanding work in the field of early English personal names.
The Transylvanian Saxons were also furious with him for strengthening the borders of Wallachia, which interfered with their control of trade routes.
The Greek term antonomasia, in rhetoric, means substituting any epithet or phrase for a proper name, as "Pelides", signifying the "son of Peleus", to identify Achilles.
In both censuses, slightly more than 70% of the bearers of the surname identified as Asian, and about 15% as White.
"Karipuna" or "Caripuná" has been used in Brazil for languages in the Madeira–Guaporé River region of Rondônia and in the Uaçá River region of Amapá.
It is thus related to many other feminine given names, including Dorian, Dorinda, Theodora and Isidora.
The word lès (French pronunciation: [lɛ] , and [lɛz‿] with liaison) is an archaic French preposition meaning "near", "nearby", or "next to".
The word is also used in other words and phrases such as: apple jack, hijack, jack of clubs (playing card), jack straw (scarecrow), jack tar (sailor), jack-in-the-box, jack-of-all-trades, Jack the lad, jack o'lantern, jackdaw, jackhammer, jackknife, jackpot, lumberjack, Union Jack, etc.
He served as Treasurer of the Ortnamnssällskapet i Uppsala [Place Name Society of Uppsala] from 1937 to 1938, when he became a librarian in Gothenborg.
Marcus (Latin pronunciation: [ˈmaːrkʊs]), feminine Marca or Marcia, is a Latin praenomen, or personal name, which was one of the most common names throughout Roman history.
This is a list of the Polish, Czech and German names of places in Cieszyn Silesia (Czech: Těšínské Slezsko, Polish: Śląsk Cieszyński, German: Teschener Schlesien).
It has been in use in South Africa since the early 2000s and has become a common derogatory slur used against foreigners, particularly those from other African countries, including immigrants from Zimbabwe, Nigeria, and Somalia.
It has been proposed that it was originally given to children who were born in the month of Martius (March), which was itself named in honor of the god Mars.
It is often used as a diminutive (i.e., short form, see hypocorism) of the female names Amanda and Miranda, as well as being a given name in its own right.
The word "wrestlers" in Ancient Greek is "palaestis," which may be related to "Palaistinê" used by Herodotus.
However, the fact that Castile is now a region subsumed within modern Spain has been the decisive factor in the preferential usage of español in an international context.
A notable exception is that the /s/ pronunciation remains the most recognized form when it occurs in the names of sports teams, most notably Celtic Football Club in Scotland, and the Boston Celtics basketball team in the United States.
The French-speaking Mauritian and Seychellois Creoles are both either African or ethnically mixed and Christianized.
Fordham Professor of Law, University of Pennsylvania Law School Howard Long (1905–1939), American convicted murderer H.
Stone in the TV series Night Court Harry Sullivan, a companion to Tom Baker's Doctor in the British television series Doctor Who Harry Sultenfuss, a character 1991 and 1994 American coming-of-age comedy-drama movies My Girl and My Girl 2 played by Dan Aykroyd Sheriff Harry S.
The name "România" as common homeland of the Romanians is first documented in the early 19th century.
It is also derived from the Slavic name Barni, the pet form of Barnim, which means "defender", and it was formerly a popular name throughout Pomerania.
She is depicted in a chapel in Gebel es-Silsileh on a statue (usurped by Merenptah from Amenhotep III), also, on a stela of Vizier Panehsy and on another statue.
Nadya is used predominantly throughout the Mediterranean region, Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Caucasus, and the Arab world.
He lectured onomastics at the postgraduate study of Croatian studies at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb and at the postgraduate study of linguistics at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zadar.
As a pub sign, it probably has multiple origins: in the arms or crest of a local landowner; as the personal badge of John of Gaunt, founder of the House of Lancaster; or in the royal arms of Scotland, conjoined to the arms of England after the Stuart succession in 1603.
In Niger and Mali, these peoples are also known as the Azawagh Arabs, after the Azawagh region of the Sahara.
Doe is an English given name and a hypocorism for different names beginning with Do such as Dorcas, Dorian, Doris, Dorothy or Dolores.
Some researchers are satisfied to collect all information and group it geographically, approximately representing the different family groups.
1525 BC), pharaoh and founder of the eighteenth dynasty of Egypt Amasis II (or Ahmose II), (reigned c.
Many variants of the name are known: Maxyes in Herodotus; Mazyes in Hecataeus; Mazaces; Mazikes; Mazazaces; etc.
He has taught at several North American universities, served as executive director of the Ukrainian Cultural and Educational Centre, Winnipeg (1976–78), and for several years an adjunct professor at the Centre for Ukrainian Canadian Studies, University of Manitoba.
Variant names usually have historical significance but have been superseded by another name that currently has more widespread use.
Mohyeddin as a religious title The designation of Mohyeddin as a title has a religious meaning in Islamic theology, related to tajdid, which means "renewal".
Aliyev noted the importance of the formation of toponymy as a science in his dissertation titled "Toponymy of the Azerbaijani Western regions".
The name increased from 104 uses for American girls born in 1963 to 1,054 uses for American girls born in 1965.
Classification There are some main types of unique identifiers, each corresponding to a different generation strategy: serial numbers, assigned incrementally or sequentially, by a central authority or accepted reference.
It is a combination of Dora with the suffix -een, which is related to the -ín suffix used in Irish, usually signifying small size or as an endearment.
Not all Creoles speak creole—many speak French, Spanish, or English as primary languages.) Spoken creole is dying with continued 'Americanization' in the area.
Amy, a playable character in Dead or Alive Xtreme Venus Vacation Amy, the real name of Fischl, a character in 2020 video game Genshin Impact See also All pages with titles beginning with Amy All pages with titles containing Amy Aimee Aime Ami (given name) == References ==
Controversy surrounding the method of determining ethnicity began as early as 2000, when it was revealed that respondents in Scotland and Northern Ireland would be able to tick a box describing themselves as of Scottish or of Irish ethnicity, an option not available for Welsh or English respondents.
'swarthy', from mouro, Portuguese for 'Moor', which were perceived as those with darker phenotypes than European peoples.
This tradition dates back to Roman Britain, when vine leaves were hung outside tabernae to show where wine was sold.
After 1830, in the wake of the Greek War of Independence and the establishment of an independent Greek state, Turkish, Slavic and Italian place names were Hellenized, as an effort of "toponymic cleansing." This nationalization of place names can also manifest itself in a postcolonial context.
The pencil test, which distinguished either "black" from "Coloured" or "Coloured" from "white", relied upon curliness and strength of hair (i.e.
Y chromosome analysis, demonstrating paternal ancestry patterns, showed that the individual was carrying the J2 haplotype, a DNA pattern found in Southwest Asian or Persian individuals.
History Normans first arrived in Italy as pilgrims, probably on their way to or returning from either Rome or Jerusalem, or from visiting the shrine at Monte Gargano, during the late tenth and early eleventh centuries.
The concept of "hypostasis" functions as a kind of conceptual inverse for terms which may have originated as personal names, and have linguistically evolved to become common terms for general concepts and qualities.
In subsequent centuries, the Frankish Empire emerged as the principal successor to Roman authority in Western Europe, and the semantic range of Frank-related terms broadened accordingly.
Foreign nationals, particularly those from other African countries, were targeted in the attacks, with the attackers using the term makwerekwere to refer to their victims.
England and Wales In strict English law, if there is such a thing as a "legal " surname, it is easily changed.
Amy Anderson and Amy Winter in the animated TV series Louds Amy Antsler, one of the main characters in the film Booksmart.
krakowskiego, 1967 Patronimiczne nazwy miejscowe w Małopolsce,1971 Słowotwórstwo polskich patronimicznych nazw miejscowych z przyrostkiem (ov)itjo- na tle zachodniosłowiańskim, 1973 Hydronimia dorzecza Orawy (together with M.
Computer algorithms:look for a certain number of points of similarity between the compared signatures ...
There is a Slovenia-Austria cross-border cooperation aimed at the preservation of the field and house names.
A multiple-use name or anonymity pseudonym is a name used by many different people to protect anonymity.
Toon (1840–1902), Confederate States Army brigadier general See also All pages with titles beginning with Toon All pages with titles containing Toon Toon (disambiguation) Thon (name) Ton (given name) Ton (surname) Tono (name) Took, surname Toom (surname) Toos (given name) == Notes ==
The name is attested in a medieval runic inscription on a sword scabbard found in Tangen, Hedmark (the Korsøygarden sword, dated c.
This is because Canary Islands are miles away from mainland Spain; in all areas of Spain, Canary Islands is the only area in Spain wherein the language is only called español and not castellano.
The first history book in the modern sense, Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War, had no more title than Historiai (Histories or Stories).
Being a Roll of the Living Descendants of Edward IV and Henry VII, Kings of England, and James III, King of Scotland, The Marquis of Ruvigny and Raineval and Melville Henry Massue Ruvigny et Raineval, ISBN 0-7884-1693-6 The New York Times, 9 May 1892, Page 2.
Ukrainian Nadiya (Надія, accent on the i), Belarusian Nadzeya (Надзея, accent on the e), and Old Polish Nadzieja, all of which are derived from Old East Slavic.
950), Byzantine physician who wrote outline of medicine dedicated to Emperor Constantine VII Porphyrogenitus Theophanes Kerameus (1129-1152) bishop of Rossano, in Italy, and a celebrated homiletic writer.
In the summer of 1988 and 1989, he was a visiting scientist at AT&T Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey, where he co-authored with Ken Church influential papers on corpus-based statistical methods in lexical analysis.
1885.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Słownik geograficzny Królestwa Polskiego i innych krajów słowiańskich, Tom IX (in Polish).
Magister Negi Magi manga and anime Zazie the Beast, a character in Trigun manga and anime Zazie the Sunflower Girl, a character in Boktai video games Zazie Winters, a character in Tegami Bachi manga and anime See also Zaza (disambiguation) == References ==
In Chinese, there are distinct words for American in the continental sense and American in the national sense.
Countries decide for themselves the division(s) to which they wish to belong; some belong to more than one division.
The term Zanj here is thought to refer to Africans in general due to the lack of a prolific slave trade on the Swahili coast during this period, as indicated by genetic studies.
Other examples are: le Torp-Mesnil, Clitourps, Saussetour (Sauxetorp end 12th century), Sauxtour (Sauxetourp 1292), similar as Saustrup (Schleswig-Holstein, Saxtorppe, 15th century), meaning "Saxi's Torp".
The inhabitants be called the Moors; there be white Moors and black Moors; they be infidels and unchristened." Borde includes a poem about "a black Moor born in Barbary" who will be "a good diligent slave".
In later times, as the conflict between Yahwism and the more popular pagan practices became increasingly intense, these names were censored and Baal was replaced with Bosheth, meaning shameful one.
Other objects used as pub names include a Boot, Copper Kettle, Plough, Boot and Slipper, Horn(e), and Crooked Billet (a bent branch).
Burnett (1929–2019), American president of Washington & Jefferson College Howard Carpendale (born 1946), German singer Howard Carter (disambiguation), name of several people Howard S.
Flicka was also one of a set of fictional identical triplets in Flicka, Ricka, Dicka, the English language translations of a series of Swedish children's books by Swedish author/illustrator Maj Lindman that were published from the 1930s to the 1960s in the Anglosphere.
The given name, Kenny, is most often used as a short form of the name Kenneth and a diminutive form of Ken.
(born 1990), American Major League Baseball player Jackie Chan (born 1954), Hong Kong martial artist, actor, film director, producer, stuntman, and singer.
Other attempts were made without any referencing, or addressing the issue of the proper meanings and uses of the terms.
Giles (1892–1984), US Army Air Force lieutenant general Barney Hill (1922–1969), an American who, with his wife, claimed to have been kidnapped by aliens Barney F.
In English, a word is often clipped down to a closed monosyllable and then suffixed with ‑y or ‑ie (phonologically ).
401–460), birth name Athenaïs, wife of Eastern Roman Emperor Theodosius II Athénaïs Michelet (1826–1899), French natural history writer and memoirist See also Françoise-Athénaïs, marquise de Montespan (1641–1707), better known as Madame de Montespan, chief mistress of King Louis XIV of France
In Genesis 26:22, It signifies vacant land in the Land of Canaan where Isaac is permitted to dig a well without being ousted by the Philistines.
In this popular conception, the Brown Race consisted of a joint "Mediterranean-Hamite-Semite" grouping of ancestrally related peoples, into which Elliot Smith included the Proto-Egyptians.
Ezekiel is a masculine Hebrew language name, meaning "God's Strength." It can be used as both a given name and a surname.
Cy is a masculine given name, often a short form (hypocorism) of Cyril, Cyrus or Seymour, and a nickname.
In Russia and the rest of Europe, as well as India, Persia, and among the Arabs, the term continued to be used over the term Mongol.
Gradually the concept took hold—Homer is a complicated case—but authorship of books, all of which were —or were believed to be— non-fiction, was not the same as, since the Western Renaissance, writing a novel.
Clem is both a given name, often a short form (hypocorism) of Clement or other, similar names, a nickname and a surname.
Besides doing research in the field of onomastics, also did field research in dialectology, particularly Chakavian, for the Slavic Linguistic Atlas (OLA) and Croatian Dialect Atlas (HDA).
73–88, doi:10.1007/978-3-031-11248-5_6, ISBN 978-3-031-11248-5, retrieved 7 May 2023{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) External links Eyewitness News (YouTube) (25 November 2019).
Abu Abdullah Mohyeddin Muhammad, known as Ibn Arabi (1165–1240), was an Andalusian writer, poet, and Sufi mystic.
By the time of the 1833 territorial division of Spain, the concept had shifted gradually to mean anything related to the Basque province of Biscay in Spain.
James Macpherson's Ossian fables, which he claimed were ancient Scottish Gaelic poems that he had "translated," added to this romantic enthusiasm.
Between 1135 and 1155 Roger II also created an Italo-Norman Kingdom of Africa in coastal Tunisia and Tripolitania.
Other Berber varieties to which it refers include: Ghomara Central Atlas Tamazight Senhaja de Srair language South Oran Berber (various ksour in southwestern Algeria and southeastern Morocco) Oued Righ Berber (around Touggourt) Tunisian Berber in general: Djerbi, Matmata (Tamezret), Douiri.
Because of its popularity in Ireland, it is often used in the English-speaking world as an ethnic slur for Irish people.
Kalkans, Kolkans, Kalki, Kolki, Kalkan people — ethnonym of the Ingush used in Russian sources of the 16th-17th centuries.
Rick is a masculine given name, often a short form (hypocorism) of Richard, Derek, Frederick, Patrick, Hendrick, Eric, Kendrick, Roderick, Fredericka, Derrick, Maverick, Erica, Ricky, Hendricka, Henrique, and Enrique.
History Kalkans are first mentioned in the second half of the 16th century in numerous reports of attacks done on Russian ambassador armies in Darial Gorge by Kalkans.
It gave rise to the surnames Fedoseyev, Fedoseyenko,, Fedosov Notable people with the name include: Fedosei Ciumacenco (Fedosey Chumachenko; born 1973), Soviet and Moldovan race walker See also All pages with titles containing Fedosey Fedot
1980s-present), English actor Matt Gunther (1963–1997), American actor and model Matt Hobby (born 1985), American actor and comedian Matt L.
In Serbo-Croatian and Slovene, "Maša" is a diminutive of "Marija" but can be a given name in its own right.
See also All pages with titles beginning with Danni All pages with titles beginning with Danny All pages with titles containing Danni All pages with titles containing Danny Dan (disambiguation) Daniel (disambiguation) Dany (disambiguation) == References ==
Club's name is a reference to Hannibal the Great All pages with titles containing Aníbal Annibal (disambiguation) Annibale, the Italian version of the given name Hannibal (disambiguation) == References ==
Ancient Egyptians Monarchs and royals The name was common among royals of the Eighteenth Dynasty, which is thus sometimes called the "Thutmosid" Dynasty from the reign of Thutmose I onward.
The urban ruling and commercial classes of these Swahili settlements included male Arab, Persian, and Indian immigrants.
(1892) "On Sense and Reference", originally published as " Über Sinn und Bedeutung" in Zeitschrift für Philosophie und philosophische Kritik, vol.
(born 1956), American football player, son of the above Clay Matthews III (born 1986), American football player, son of the above Clay Riley, American politician Clay Milner Russell (born 1999), English actor Clay Shaw (1913–1974), charged by Jim Garrison with conspiracy to murder John F.
When books take the form of a scroll or roll, as in the case of the Torah or the Five Megillot, it is impractical to single out an initial page.
Этимологические исследования и лексическая семантика // Принципы и методы семантических исследований.
He was an honorary vice-president of the English Place-Name Society, of which he was also an honorary council member; in 1973, he was the dedicatee of a festschrift, Otium et Negotium.
From there the term spread into China as folangji (佛郎機), which was used to refer to the Portuguese and their breech-loading swivel guns when they first arrived in China.
1975–1996), American Oscar-winning sound engineer Vern Poythress (born 1946), American Calvinist philosopher, theologian and New Testament scholar Lavern Vern Pyles, American politician, former member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives (1975–1980) Vernal Vern Riffe Jr.
Such names in Norway were collected in the 19-volume collection Norske Gaardnavne, published between 1897 and 1924.
Pavle Merkù (pronounced [ˈpaːu̯lɛ mɛɾˈku]) (12 July 1927 – 20 October 2014) was an Italian-Slovene composer, ethnomusicologist, Slovene specialist, and etymologist.
However, they ultimately decided against it, fearing that audiences would perceive it as anachronistic rather than historically accurate.
In international usage, it most commonly refers to Tashelhiyt (Tašlḥiyt), the language of the Išlḥiyn of southwestern Morocco.
Disco Stu, a recurring character in The Simpsons Stu Bergman, on the soap opera Search for Tomorrow Stu Redman, in Stephen King's The Stand Stu Pickles, in Rugrats Stu, in the 2006 animated film Ice Age: The Meltdown Stu, a fictional character in the American animated series Wow!
Honey is an English hypocorism, independent given name, and surname meaning “honey”, which has long been used to sweeten foods and is a common English term of endearment.
Notable people with these names include: Athenais (seer), 4th-century BC prophetess who told Alexander the Great of his allegedly divine descent Athenais Philostorgos I (fl.
For example, the Danube, Don, Dniester, Dnieper, and Donets rivers all contain the Scythian name for "river" (cf.
Chesapeake Colonies Atlantic Creole is a term coined by historian Ira Berlin to describe a group of people from Angola and Central Africa in the 16th and 17th centuries with cultural or ethnic ties to Africa, Europe, and sometimes the Caribbean.
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement See also Bice Oval, Christies Beach, South Australia, a public park
The Spanish took it as their name, for reasons that have been attributed to different, mostly legendary, stories.
The word is thought to derive from Latin sclavis, a popular designation for the South Slavs (Bulgarians and Serbs in particular) that is still used in Albanian (in the form shkja and various dialectal variants).
Rhyming names were popular in the Middle Ages, so Rick became Hick or Dick, Will became Gill or Bill, and Rob became Hob, Dob, Nob, or Bob.
Dora is a variant of Dorothy / Dorothea, which derives from the Late Greek name Δωρόθεος (Dorotheos), which meant "gift of god" (from δῶρον/doron meaning "gift" and θεός/theos meaning "god".
Tepperman, in the 1982–1983 sitcom Square Pegs Muffy Mouse, in the 1980s Canadian children's television series Today's Special Muffy, in the 1986 horror film April Fool's Day Muffy St.
In compound Icelandic oeconyms, the single most common second element is -staðir 'place', although topographical suffixes (-dalr 'valley', -nes 'headland', -fell 'hill', -eyrr 'bank') form the largest group of such elements.
Sometimes it is given to people surnamed "Gray" (including the baseball players Dolly Gray and Willie "Dolly" Gray), owing to the music hall song "Goodbye, Dolly Gray"; this particularly commonly occurs amongst sailors.
INN stems Each drug's INN is unique but may contain a stem that is shared with other drugs of the same class.
A unique identifier (UID) is an identifier that is guaranteed to be unique among all identifiers used for those objects and for a specific purpose.
The word "jack" is also commonly used in other contexts in English for many occupations, objects and actions, linked to the use of the word as a metaphor for a common man.
Thus, in Slovakia, the former Ruthenians were technically free to register as any ethnicity but Ruthenian.
We can even understand the sentence "There is no such thing as Pegasus." But, what can the meaning of a proper name be, except the object to which it refers?
This page lists some names of places in Lithuania, as they are called in Lithuanian, and as they are called or were formerly called in other languages spoken by ethnic groups.
Carpathian Ruthenia (Hungarian: Kárpátalja, Ukrainian: Закарпаття, romanized: Zakarpattia) became part of the newly founded Hungarian Kingdom in 1000.
References External links Jane Pilcher publications indexed by Google Scholar Official website Personal website
A rose registration name is a unique name that distinguishes a rose variety (cultivar) from every other rose variety.
Less commonly, the term has been used in scholarship to refer to more recent emigration from Africa.
According to this explanation, "pomegranate" was Australian rhyming slang for "immigrant" (like "Jimmy Grant").
names or codes allocated by choice which are forced to be unique by keeping a central registry such as the EPC Information Services.
Some scholars believe the biblical accounts of Abijam's family to be contradictory; however, a study of Hebrew linguistics may remove any seeming contradictions.
In the mid-1960s he started collecting folk songs among ethnic Slovenes living in Italy; this eventually grew into a collection of stories, customs, superstitions, and other folk material that he published in 1976 under the title Ljudsko izročilo Slovencev v Italiji (Slovene Folk Heritage in Italy).
The nickname is associated with Flicka, a fictional horse in a book trilogy published during the 1940s by American author Mary O’Hara about an American boy and his mustang horse Flicka.
The 2006 American film Flicka and its two sequels were loosely based on the previous books and films.
Thus, most Roman gods and goddesses, especially the Twelve Olympians, had traditional counterparts in Greek, Etruscan, and most other Mediterranean pantheons, such as Jupiter as head of the Olympian Gods with Zeus.
Habibullah (Arabic: حَبِيْبَُ ٱلله) also spelled Habib Ullah, Habibollah, Habeeb-Allah, is a male Muslim given name meaning in Beloved of God, stemming from the male form of the name Habib.
An established INN is known as a recommended INN (rINN), while a name that is still being considered is called a proposed INN (pINN).
The name became popular in English-speaking countries during the 19th and 20th centuries, often symbolizing quick thinking, playfulness, and individuality.
In 2004 he published the book 1300 primorskih priimkov (1,300 Littoral Surnames), which complemented the etymological research of France Bezlaj.
Netjerkheperre-setepenamun Siamun, Egyptian pharaoh of the 21st Dynasty Siamun (son of Ahmose I) Siamun (son of Thutmose III) A son of Ramesses II, No.
Jack is also used to a much lesser extent as a female name, often as a shortened version of Jacqueline.
Some commentators note that the name has risen in use for girls along with other names of a similar style that all exude cuteness and promote enjoyment, perhaps in reaction to serious times.
A new phenomenon is an emergence of text messages in the Orang Asli language, which are distributed by their speakers, in particular, when using mobile phones.
The need for an agreed-upon title only emerged in a Western context in the 18th century, with more secular subjects, and more printed literature of art criticism, and Age of Enlightenment cataloging of the first museums and first exhibitions.
In a document issued about the same period (1190 ?) by King Béla III of Hungary, a count Narad was mentioned as having fought the fury of the "Bulgarorum et Rume⟨n⟩orum" .
It may refer to: People Rick Adams (disambiguation) Rick Adduono (born 1955), Canadian professional ice hockey coach and player Rick Aiello (1955–2021), American film and television actor Rick W.
His studies include general and Russian onomastics, toponymy and lexicology, forensic linguistic expertise, Slavic studies and speech culture, Russian language in computer technologies.
Her 1987 book, Discourse and Social Psychology: Beyond Attitudes and Behaviour, cowritten with Jonathan Potter, was very influential, particularly in social psychology, though also in other fields (e.g.
Since 2004 HNK also migrated to a new server platform, namely Manatee/Bonito server-client architecture.
Aristotle also critically revised Plato's interpretation of mimesis which Aristotle believed represented a natural human instinct for imitation, an instinct which could be found at the core of all poetry.
Politeness strategies Politeness strategies are used to formulate messages in order to save the hearer's positive and negative face when face-threatening acts are inevitable or desired.
In addition to linguistic theory, the approach draws from social theory, critical theory and contributions from Karl Marx, Antonio Gramsci, Louis Althusser, Jürgen Habermas, Michel Foucault and Pierre Bourdieu—in order to examine ideologies and power relations involved in discourse.
This happens in the same way that 'I' can correctly be used (by different people) to refer to different people at the same time.
Ruth Wodak has developed a framework based on the systemic collection of sample texts on a topic to better understand the interrelationship of discourses that exist within the field.
He has received several grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Science Foundation, to create and use corpora of English, Spanish, and Portuguese.
For example, NN for singular common nouns, NNS for plural common nouns, NP for singular proper nouns (see the POS tags used in the Brown Corpus).
Integration is a constraint satisfaction process that ensures that those constructions that are linked together become strongly activated, whereas contradictory and irrelevant elements become deactivated.
Using the London-Lund Corpus of English Conversation, Stenstrom shows the many conversation strategies with real world examples.
The perlocutionary effect of an utterance is contrasted with the locutionary act, which is the act of producing the utterance (articulating/speaking), and with the illocutionary force, which does not depend on the utterance's effect on the interlocutor.
A year later he was transferred to the Office of the President as Director of Communications Research, a post he held until 1999.
These are expressed through language and behaviour, and the relationship between language and power.
Interactional linguistics (IL) is an interdisciplinary approach to grammar and interaction in the field of linguistics, that applies the methods of Conversation Analysis to the study of linguistic structures, including syntax, phonetics, morphology, and so on.
The metalocutionary functions are structural rather than attitudinal or emotional functions of prosody.
Multimodality: Foundations, research and analysis – A problem-oriented introduction (with Janina Wildfeuer and Tuomo Hiippala; de Gruyter, 2017).
According to Baxter (2003), FPDA does not have an 'emancipatory' agenda for women but a 'transformative' one.
The orientation of systemic functional grammar has served to encourage several further grammatical accounts that deal with some perceived weaknesses of the theory and similarly orient to issues not seen to be addressed in more structural accounts.
More recently, she has worked on biometrics, focussing on issues of citizen consent to identity management techniques.
In the Western European tradition, scholars prepared concordances to allow detailed study of the language of the Bible and other canonical texts.
Books covering the use of GATE, in addition to the GATE User Guide, include "Building Search Applications: Lucene, LingPipe, and Gate", by Manu Konchady, and "Introduction to Linguistic Annotation and Text Analytics", by Graham Wilcock.
Halliday argues that the concept of metafunction is one of a small set of principles that are necessary to explain how language works; this concept of function in language is necessary to explain the organisation of the semantic system of language.
See also Comic strip switcheroo Bait and switch I Said My Pajamas (and Put On My Pray'rs) Paraprosdokian Man bites dog The Great Switcheroo The Old Switcheroo In Soviet Russia Transpositional pun Rickrolling References External links The Aristocrats at IMDb
In case a word has no mention in the general English corpus, 3 is taken as its jargonness as suggested by the second part of the equation.
Groups of units which serve as a satellite or nucleus together are called complex discourse units, and always span a set of adjacent EDUs.
The meso-level or "level of discursive practice" involves studying issues of production and consumption, for instance, which institution produced a text, who is the target audience, etc.
Information flow affects grammatical structures such as: Word order (topic, focus, and afterthought constructions).
Genre and mode SCOTS is a multimedia corpus, containing written texts and spoken texts, available as orthographic transcriptions, accompanied by source audio or video files.
As of May 28, 2011, 881 people are on the gate-users mailing list at SourceForge.net, and 111,932 downloads from SourceForge are recorded since the project moved to SourceForge in 2005.
"Expanding Horizons in the Study of World Englishes with the 1.9 Billion Word Global Web-Based English Corpus (GloWbE)." English World-Wide 36: 1-28.
Contrary to much of traditional linguistics, discourse analysts not only study language use 'beyond the sentence boundary' but also prefer to analyze 'naturally occurring' language use, not invented examples.
Career Marta Dynel received her PhD (2006) from the University of Łódź, followed by habilitation (dr Litt.) in 2012 and a full professor degree in 2022.
Metafunction is uniquely defined in SFL as the "organisation of the functional framework around systems", i.e., choices.
He is a winner of Humboldt Research Award and an Honorary Member of the Linguistic Society of America.
In 1983, she became professor of Applied Linguistics and Dean of the School of Social Studies at the University of Essex, and in 1988 became Professor and Founding Director of the Research Centre in English and Applied Linguistics at the University of Cambridge.
sense A and B), then assign the appropriate label to all training examples containing the seed collocations.
SKAD is well established within German-speaking discourse studies, though interest has recently been increasing in the English-speaking world and beyond.
The archaeology of knowledge is the analytical method that Foucault used in Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason (1961), The Birth of the Clinic: An Archaeology of Medical Perception (1963), and The Order of Things: An Archaeology of the Human Sciences (1966).
van Dijk's approach to critical discourse analysis combines cognitive theories with linguistic and social theories.
Lovejoy fallacy", the "Helen Lovejoy defence", "Helen Lovejoy syndrome", the "Lovejoy Trap", and "think-of-the-children-ism".
Using these tools, dictionaries such as the Macmillan English Dictionary and the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English included boxes or panels with lists of frequent collocations.
To avoid confusion, the full designation—systemic functional linguistics—is typically used, rather than functional grammar or functional linguistics.
In 1972, Schegloff moved back to California and started working at UCLA as an assistant professor of sociology.
"Notes on Transitivity and Theme in English, Parts 1–3", Journal of Linguistics 3(1), 37–81; 3(2), 199–244; 4(2), 179–215.
Her main areas of research involve ethnographic research in European border communities and a comparative media-project about the 20th century on television.
Keywords like "citizen" generate various translations in Chinese, and are part of an ongoing adaptation to global concepts of individual rights and responsibilities.
Word sketches were first introduced by the British corpus linguist Adam Kilgarriff and exploited within the Sketch Engine corpus management system.
It contains 458,000 documents (188 million tokens) that are collected from sources such as websites, news agencies, books, and magazines.
Tag questions are also a part of non-fluency features; these are used by the speaker to check if the listener understands what the speaker is saying.
Leech: Longman Student Grammar of Spoken and Written English Workbook, Harlow: Pearson Education, 2002 (978-0582539426).
Discourse analysis, according to its own terms at least, seeks to "unfix and destabilise" the accepted meanings of everyday language, and to reveal how the dominant discourse "marginalises and oppresses...
Covering both British and American varieties of English in all of these registers but the last one, the descriptions in LGSWE are based on a language corpus exceeding 40 million words and as such this grammar has been widely praised as a new milestone in corpus-based grammatical studies.
"The 385+ Million Word Corpus of Contemporary American English (1990-2008+): Design, Architecture, and Linguistic Insights".
A typical example would be: We ˌlooked at the ↗sky | and ˈsaw the ↘clouds In this example, the | mark indicates a division between intonation units.
It was noted that by 1993, the data needed for training and benchmarking the models was big enough that "Not even the largest companies can easily afford enough of [the needed] data...
The intended audience was scholarly, but the Google Books Ngram Viewer made it possible for anyone with a computer to see a graph that represents the diachronic change of the use of words and phrases with ease.
Each text is accompanied by extensive metadata, including such information as author's decade of birth, gender, occupation, birthplace and place of residence, and details about the text such as publication information, audience, date and genre.
A corpus manager usually represents a complex tool that allows one to perform searches for language forms or sequences.
In probability theory and statistics, the Zipf–Mandelbrot law is a discrete probability distribution.
From 2004 she held positions as lecturer first at the Vrije Universiteit and then at Radboud University Nijmegen, where she was promoted to senior lecturer in 2008, before moving to Edinburgh in 2013.
The AsoSoft text corpus is the first large-scale Kurdish text corpus, collected and processed by the AsoSoft research and development group.
Firstly, the coiner of the term, Halliday, and some of his followers draw a theoretical distinction between the terms group and phrase.
Matthiessen completed his undergraduate degree at Lund University in 1980, where he studied English, Arabic, and philosophy.
The nucleus may be preceded by a head containing stressed syllables preceding the nucleus, and a tail consisting of syllables following the nucleus within the tone unit.
Part of the motivation was to support the benchmark-oriented methodology of DARPA's Human Language Technology program.
Cohesion is the grammatical and lexical linking within a text or sentence that holds a text together and gives it meaning.
Walter Kintsch (May 30, 1932 – March 24, 2023) was an American psychologist and academic who was professor emeritus of Psychology at the University of Colorado Boulder (United States).
Through the textual function, language "creates a semiotic world of its own: a parallel universe, or 'virtual reality' in modern terms".
Metaphor identification procedure (MIP) is a method for identifying metaphorically used words in discourse.
Language connects with the social through being the primary domain of ideology, and through being both a site of, and a stake in, struggles for power.
This one, in his masterful collection of stories El Llano en llamas, and Asturias, in Hombres de maíz, consciously or not, adapted the Joycean "Uncle Charles Principle", making their narrators transfigure linguistically in the peasant, the indigenous or in the indigenism they tried to portray.
Since the beginning of her academic career, she has studied humour, irony, impoliteness and deception from both theoretical and empirical angles, based on film discourse and social media data.
Tony Trew (also known as Anthony Andrew Trew) (Cape Town, 6 July 1941) is a South African politician and discourse analyst.
Units 4-5 form a relation "Means", explaining the means by which the visual system resolves confusion.
looks at the rhetoric used by the Labour Party in the United Kingdom, with a particular focus on the party's developments towards New Labour.
'Teenagers’ swearing by mother in English, Spanish and Norwegian" from the International Journal of Corpus Linguistics, comparing teenagers' usage of mother or mom in swearing.
This approach is not fully automatic, a human judge must decide which word will be selected for each target word’s sense, the outputs will be reliable indicators of the senses.
"Creating Useful Historical Corpora: A Comparison of CORDE, the Corpus del Español, and the Corpus do Português".
L2 (English) Corpora Cambridge Learner Corpus Corpus of Academic Written and Spoken English (CAWSE), a collection of Chinese students’ English language samples in academic settings.
In 2018, author Nassim Nicholas Taleb, coined the term 'pedophrasty' for an argument "involving children to prop up a rationalization ...
WordSmith Tools is a software package primarily for linguists, in particular for work in the field of corpus linguistics.
An example of this would be a typical conversation between a customer and a shopkeeper: Customer: I would like a turkey sandwich, please.
In September 2007, about 150,000 English-Japanese sentence pairs from the Tanaka Corpus — a public-domain compilation released in 2001 by Hyogo University professor Yasuhito Tanaka and maintained by Jim Breen and Paul Blay — were imported into the Tatoeba Corpus.
They are social systems plus meaning, such as verbal language, gesture, posture, dress, painting, architecture, etc.
It was soon pointed out that many errors predicted by Contrastive Analysis were inexplicably not observed in learners' language.
SKELL A free web service based on Sketch Engine and aimed at language learners and teachers is SKELL (formerly SkELL).
Macrostructures of discourse are distinguished from its microstructures, that is, the local structures of words, clauses, sentences or turns in conversation.
The 'London School' As a teacher in the University of London for more than 20 years, Firth influenced a generation of British linguists.
Selected papers from the Sixth International Conference on Teaching and Language Corpora (TaLC 6), Edited by Encarnación Hidalgo, Luis Quereda and Juan Santana.
He was educated at George Heriot's School before going on to the University of Edinburgh, where he was later a lecturer.
The medical gaze In the genealogy of medicine—knowledge about the human body—the term le regard médical (the medical gaze) identifies the doctor's practice of objectifying the body of the patient, as separate and apart from their personal identity.
The aim of the project is according to pages is "producing a web corpus of Buddhist texts for using in multilingual lexicography.
In conclusion, there is still great controversy surrounding the use of the SVA and many studies have investigated its core component, the CBCA, in order to determine its validity and reliability.
There is one more referential device, which cannot create cohesion: Exophoric reference is used to describe generics or abstracts without ever identifying them (in contrast to anaphora and cataphora, which do identify the entity and thus are forms of endophora): e.g.
EUR-Lex Corpus – corpus built up of the EUR-Lex database consists of European Union law and other public documents of the European Union Language Grid – Multilingual service platform that includes parallel text services Documentation Parallel text processing bibliography by J.
By understanding these three variables, the kind of language likely to be used in a particular setting can be predicted — and, Michael Halliday suggests, this is exactly what we do, unconsciously, as language users.
The sociology of knowledge approach to discourse (SKAD) is a social science research programme for studying discourse developed by Reiner Keller in order to analyze knowledge relationships and conditions in society.
He was one of the editors of the seminal book Language and control (1979), which helped establish critical linguistics as an academic field.
It is published by Routledge on behalf of the Society for Text and Discourse, of which it is the official journal.
This online article is intended to provide an interactive table for readers and a place where information about children speech corpora that can be updated continuously by the speech research community.
In a society there are competing discourses (or narratives) regarding anything and everything such as feminism, racism, casteism, communalism, regionalism, economic development, democracy, governance, etc.
For the same purpose, after intermediate convergence the algorithm will also need to increase the width of the context window.
In the context of natural language processing (NLP), the use of n-grams allows bag-of-words models to capture information such as word order, which would not be possible in the traditional bag of words setting.
The Global Language Monitor (GLM) is a company based in Austin, Texas, that analyzes trends in the English language.
In a 2010 book on human rights, Children's Rights and Human Development, child psychiatrist Bruce D.
Although the sentences in the Tatoeba Corpus are not all authentic, they are sometimes used to build data-driven learning applications.
It can also be used to automatically align other speech corpora with their phonetic transcript and could be used as part of a larger corpus for training speech recognition systems.
In linguistics, co-occurrence or cooccurrence (in older texts often shown with diacritic as coöccurrence) is an above-chance frequency of ordered occurrence of two adjacent terms in a text corpus.
A discourse topic is the central participant or idea of a stretch of connected discourse or dialogue.
Now they are assigned functions in different levels of analysis: topic changes, reformulations, discourse planning, stressing, hedging, or backchanneling.
For declaratives or wh-questions with a final decline, the decline is located as a step-down to the syllable after the last prominently stressed syllable, or as a down-glide on the last syllable itself if it is prominently stressed.
References External links Free online search Croatian National Corpus website (in Croatian) Hrvatska jezična riznica, another online Croatian corpus, by the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics
Yael Maschler divided discourse markers into four broad categories: interpersonal, referential, structural, and cognitive.
Sociolinguistics, psycholinguistics, bilingualism, pragmatics and others cultural-related areas: CA is, in itself, a cross-linguistic/cross-cultural study, and its ability to apply both linguistic and non-linguistic features is one of its major merits.
Biography Adamou studied at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (MA 1997) and Paris Descartes University (PhD 2001).
The initial composition was divided in two constituents: 30-million corpus of contemporary Croatian (30m) where samples from texts from 1990 on were included.
Keys to determining whether a discourse is open or closed include access to information, equity of access, open access, quality of discourse and mechanisms and modalities of discourse control: overt, covert, implicit and incidental.
His research has tackled a great diversity of corpora, apart from ordinary conversation: advertising, handbooks, literature, newspapers, politics, philosophy, religion, the Internet...
Genre pedagogy is based on a principle of 'guidance through interaction in the context of shared experience', influenced by research in child language development by Michael Halliday and Clare Painter.
Within the area of corpus linguistics, collocation is defined as a sequence of words or terms which co-occur more often than would be expected by chance.
Estetická studie, a work examining the romantic Czech poet Karel Hynek Mácha in the field of literary aesthetics.
Media texts, on the other hand, almost always involve attempts to translate—or recontextualise—characters, plots and events that have already been constructed elsewhere, by others, in a different context.
Formal: One-way participation; no interruption; technical vocabulary or exact definitions are important; includes presentations or introductions between strangers.
For example, within the Cycle_of_life_and_death frame, the subframe Death is preceded by the subframe Being_born.
This is what a CLAWS output will generally look like, with the most likely part-of-speech tag following each word.
Leech, Geoffrey / Myers, Greg / Thomas, Jenny (eds.) (1995): Spoken English on Computer: Transcription, Markup and Application.
For example, texts that are open to a wide range of interpretations, such as "Call us before you dig.
Verbal context refers to the text or speech surrounding an expression (word, sentence, or speech act).
The analysis of appraisal has also become influential outside Systemic Functional Linguistics, in various types of discourse analysis.
See also Unstructured Information Management Architecture (UIMA) OpenNLP Pheme, a major EU project managed by the GATE group on early detection of false information in social media References External links Official website
During the 2014-5 period he has served as Principal Investigator of the POPULISMUS research project, co-funded by the European Union.
Examples of dangling "so": "Yeah, it's pretty exciting, though we're not really sure whether it will work out, so..." Speaker 1: "How was your date?" Speaker 2: "Well, he didn't show up, so..." Intensifying adverb "So" may close a sentence as an intensifying adverb, such as in "I love her so".
General Internet Corpus of Russian (GICR) is a corpus of Russian internet texts that has been accessible on request through an online query interface since 2013.
"The register is the set of meanings, the configuration of semantic patterns, that are typically drawn upon under the specified conditions, along with the words and structures that are used in the realization of these meanings." Register, in the view of M.
Michael Young of Consolidated Goldfields would organise seven meetings known as the Mells Park Initiative between Willie Esterhuyse and his team of politically connected Afrikaners and the ANC's led by Thabo Mbeki of which Trew attended all.
Stratification orders "language in context into subsystem according to the degree of symbolic abstraction"; these subsystems are called strata, which are related by realization.
The term metalocutionary act has developed a more general meaning and may include, for example, quotation acts and comments on preceding speech acts.
Tony Berber-Sardinha Proceedings WCC '00 Proceedings of the workshop on Comparing corpora - Volume 9 Pages 7–13 Teacher Training Curriculum Policies in Brazil: Possibilities of Wordsmith Tools Craveiro, Clarissa & Aguiar, Felipe (2016).
Following work by Michel Foucault, these fields view discourse as a system of thought, knowledge, or communication that constructs our world experience.
The corpus is created either by adding text files from the local drive (in any language and format), or by indicating websites from which texts are to be downloaded.
Concordancers are also used in corpus linguistics to retrieve alphabetically or otherwise sorted lists of linguistic data from the corpus in question, which the corpus linguist then analyzes.
In 2006, she published "Taboo words in teenage talk," which utilized two separate spontaneous conversation corpora out of London and Madrid.
Then, the corpus is annotated automatically on several levels: morphosyntantic, named entities recognition (e.g.
So-called free word order languages such as Russian, Czech, and to some certain extent Chinese and German use word order as the primary means, and the topic usually precedes the focus.
Functional signifies the proposition that language evolved under pressure of the functions that the language system must serve.
Carrying a bullet in his breast pocket; he claimed someone once threw a Bible at him and the bullet saved his life.
The influence of context parameters on language use or discourse is usually studied in terms of language variation, style or register (see Stylistics).
She was a member of the 1988 Kingman Committee, appointed by the British government to look at the training of teachers of English as a mother tongue.
Speaker C only uses the interjection "ew!" to express disgust, but their stance is still implied given the context.
GoodExample tries to automatically extract a diverse set of high-quality example sentences from the English Tatoeba Corpus.
(2000) Construing experience through meaning: a language-based approach to cognition, Open linguistics series, Continuum International.
Korpusomat - a tool for creating and searching electronic language corpora, created at the Institute of Computer Science of the Polish Academy of Sciences.
Michael Halliday introduced the term using a cartographic hierarchy of stratification whereby three viewpoints were identified: "from above" (from a higher stratum) "from roundabout" (from its own stratum, its own primary location) "from below"(from a lower stratum) Halliday's colleague, C.
The Archaeology of Knowledge (French: L’archéologie du savoir) by Michel Foucault is a 1969 treatise about the methodology and historiography of the systems of thought (epistemes) and of knowledge (discursive formations).
In linguistics, stratification is the idea that language is organized in terms of hierarchically ordered strata (such as phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics).
In addition, Wodak is currently working on two edited volumes: one with George Newth on the concept of “common sense” (under review with Liverpool University Press), and another with three co-editors on theories and practices of far-right populism (forthcoming in German with Springer).
He took a BA honours degree in modern Chinese language and literature (Mandarin) through the University of London—an external degree for which he studied in China.
It is distinct from socio-cognitive discourse analysis, which is an analysis of the link between the text and structures in society.
The following example requires an SIL font such as Gentium Plus, either as the default browser font or as the user-defined font for IPA text, for which see Template:IPA#Usage.
History of Poetics Western Poetics Generally speaking, poetics in the Western tradition emerged out of Ancient Greece.
School founded The approach developed by Laclau and Mouffe provided the teaching backbone of the graduate programme in Ideology and Discourse Analysis Laclau founded at the University of Essex in the early 1980s.
And in February 2016, BYU Law School hosted the inaugural conference on LCL, with over two dozen legal and linguistic scholars from around the country discussing and debating the next steps forward for the growing academic movement.
Linguistic anthropology helps make explicit the implicit features of culture that can often be unknown to the speaker.
Interactional linguistics asks research questions such as "How are linguistic patterns shaped by interaction?" and "How do linguistic patterns themselves shape interaction?".
As of November 2022, Esperanto is Tatoeba's fifth pivot language, with over 330,000 sentences translated into at least two languages.
After spending some time working as a translator, she obtained her PhD in 2000 from the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam; her dissertation focused on infinitives in Old and Middle English.
Many PhD theses further developing Laclau’s and Mouffe’s discourse theory and applying it in the analysis of empirical cases have since been completed.
Debate tactic Logical fallacy In their 2002 book, Art, Argument, and Advocacy: Mastering Parliamentary Debate, John Meany and Kate Shuster called the use of the phrase "Think of the children" in debate a type of logical fallacy and an appeal to emotion.
Austin's analyses encouraged philosophers and linguists to treat a wide range of utterances—requests, orders, apologies, warnings, declarations and so on—as actions performed in accordance with socially recognised rules or "felicity conditions".
It could rescue social psychology from the sterility of the laboratory and its traditional mentalism.
This happened only with Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, when the entire Western episteme was overturned.
In this formulation, language variation can be divided into two categories: dialect, for variation according to user, and diatype for variation according to use (e.g.
Life and career Schegloff was born in a Jewish household in Brooklyn, New York and raised in Boston.
Discourse & Society is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of discourse analysis.
Authors differ on how to characterize (and further stratify) each stratum, but the general scheme is always followed: Context is realized by language (content plane + expression plane).
Overview of Children's Speech Corpora In the table below, the age range may be described in terms of school grades.
He studied journalism at the Hebrew Teacher's College from 1953 to 1957 where he was awarded a Bachelor of Jewish Education (cum laude).
"Tom will increase his workload" Here, adults will emphasize the second syllable, "CREASE", as "increase" functions as a verb.
2) How does the tool of corpus linguistics help inform the determination of the original public meaning of those Second Amendment phrases?” 3) How do the data yielded from corpus linguistics assist in the interpretation of the constitutionality of age-based restrictions under the Second Amendment?
"Corpus-based studies of lexical and semantic variation: The importance of both corpus size and corpus design." In From data to evidence in English language research (Digital Linguistics), eds.
To waffle, particularly in the U.S., can also denote indecision about particular subjects, or changing one's mind frequently on a topic.
Thus, they are broadly equivalent to the notions of target and source domains in conceptual metaphor theory.
Multidimensional semiotic system The point of departure for Halliday's work in linguistics has been the simple question: "how does language work?".
EAP and other genres First, there was a marked increase in the types of written texts considered the purview of second language writing around the world.
The next step which made interactional linguistics develop was the important work on conversation analysis.
The JRC-Acquis Multilingual Parallel Corpus of the total body of European Union (EU) law: Acquis Communautaire with 231 language pairs.
In linguistics and the philosophy of language, a locutionary act is the performance of an utterance, and is one of the types of force, in addition to illocutionary act and perlocutionary act, typically cited in Speech Act Theory.
For Halliday, a central theoretical principle is then that any act of communication involves choices.
It was he who coined the term "linguistic anthropology." Sociolinguistics is now the most common term for linguistics relating to the field of anthropology.
Dialog act recognition, also known as spoken utterance classification, is an important part of spoken language understanding.
Co-occurrence information and knowledge of co-occurring words may be relevant in analysis of language for the purposes of large language models, part of the emerging field of artificial intelligence, and helpful in word games such as scrabble.
GATE Mimir provides support for indexing and searching the linguistic and semantic information generated by such applications and allows for querying the information using arbitrary combinations of text, structural information, and SPARQL.
Rephrasing: I mean In her book on discourse analysis, Barbara Johnstone called discourse markers that are used by speakers to take the floor (like so) "boundarymarking uses" of the word.
Studies in context Hasan followed but extended the model of linguistic context set out by Michael Halliday going back to the 1960s, in which he proposed that linguistic context must be seen as a "semiotic construct" with three essential parameters: field, tenor and mode.
For example, erupted has a positive prosody in sports reporting but a negative prosody in hard news reporting.
Hierarchical latent tree analysis (HLTA) is an alternative to LDA, which models word co-occurrence using a tree of latent variables and the states of the latent variables, which correspond to soft clusters of documents, are interpreted as topics.
Since 2008 he has been a professor in the Department of English at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
The informational and situational context that culture provides helps language "make sense"; culture is a contextualization cue (Hassan 2014).
Since many words can be considered metaphorical in different contexts, MIP requires a clear distinction between words that convey metaphorical meaning and those that do not, despite the fact that language generally differs in the degrees of metaphoricity.
Cantonese dim sum culture developed rapidly during the latter half of the nineteenth century in Guangzhou.
Ryōwa claimed his family lineage for the Ogasawara Ko school, making him the 4th generation grandmaster after Furuichi Inei.
The procedure and requirements vary by school, but generally only advanced students who have been licensed to take students of their own, and may thus be addressed as sensei, are given a tea name.
Jean Brindesi's early 19th-century oil paintings about Istanbul daily life show simit sellers on the streets.
Coming out in the public markets in 2008 at the World Tea Expo, TeaGschwendner was the highest ranked tea merchant with 27/30 judged teas in a top three respective category; comparably, the next competing company, Rishi Tea, was closer to 13/30.
The tea-drinking habits of Hong Kong residents derive from Chinese tea culture, primarily the Cantonese traditions such as yum cha.
History The origin of the cream tea is disputed, although there is evidence to suggest that the tradition of eating bread with cream and jam existed at Tavistock Abbey in Devon in the 11th century.
Description Cheese tea consists of cold green or black tea topped with a layer of cream cheese blended with cream or condensed milk, creating a cap that can be either sweet or slightly salty.
The drink, already common in Europe, was a favourite of his new Portuguese bride, Catherine of Braganza.
Other collaborations include partnerships with McDonald's, BT21, Horlicks from GlaxoSmithKline, and biscuit brand Julie's.
The appearance of shell cups can be used as a virtual marker for the advent of Hopewell culture in many instances.
As of 2018, more than 60 cafés that were reported to have such activities were closed by the Iraqi authorities.
Altogether, that would be enough silver to buy ten thousand horses." King Seonjo, however, replied "We do not have a tea drinking custom in our country." Late-Joseon dynasty- Japanese Occupation to 1980s Tea was reintroduced to Korea by the Japanese in 1890s, the same time coffee was introduced.
The Herveys Range Heritage Tea Rooms are an historical cafe located at the top of the Hervey Range, approximately 32 kilometres (20 mi) north-west of Townsville in North Queensland, Australia.
It was initially constructed during the Edo period and later relocated due to its deteriorated state and is now in the gardens of the Tokyo National Museum.
There are other indications that Heidegger was inspired by Eastern writings, but let's leave this topic here.
Many hotels and fine Chinese cuisine restaurants offer mooncakes packaged in elaborate boxes with multiple compartments and jeweled clasps.
History The tea house was originally constructed with materials from Kiyosu Castle based on the design by Lord Furuta Oribe (1544–1615).
The classical door case is surmounted by a pediment with a statue of a golden lion, and two figures of Chinese men who signify the origin of the beverage.
The most common type of black tea is from Assam; however, a blend of different tea variations may be used.
It originally derived from the tea-growing region around Mount Jiulong in the South of Jiangxi Province in China, where the tea pickers would sing lengthy songs to each other whilst undertaking the monotonous task of tea-picking.
Waste and Over-packaging Behind Mooncake Mooncake packaging has become increasingly fancy and wasteful due to its giftability.
See also Golden Tea Room Notes References Further reading Floorplan, 3-D view, history, and extensive photos, from Columbia University
This privilege was limited for the upper class, and financially out of reach for most working-class locals.
In 1973, the 32nd head of the Ogasawara family, Ogasawara Tadamune, assumed the head of the Ogasawara Ko school of chanoyu to promote a resurgence of the school.
It was formerly a tea-house and music venue situated in the West End of Glasgow where it served teas, as well as vegetarian and vegan foodstuffs.
Eierkoeken experienced increased popularity in the early 2000s when dietitian Sonja Bakker introduced them as a healthy snack option.
Luk Yu (Chinese: 陸羽茶室) is a teahouse and dim sum restaurant located on Stanley Street, in the Central area of Hong Kong, established in 1933.
Locations Chai Point has presence in eight Indian cities with presence across retail locations, airports, and business parks.
In 1986 the Kakurintei Document was discovered, some 140 years after it was erected and a movement to reconstruct the Kakurintei was started under the auspices of the Saga Prefectural Culture Federation, the Saga Prefectural Tea Ceremony Association and other groups.
Tea bricks were preferred in Asian trade prior to the 19th century, since they were more compact and less susceptible to physical damage than loose leaf tea.
The name "Mushakōjisenke" for the other of the three lines of the family derives from the fact that the family's homestead is located along Mushakōji street.
A popular use of the tea is in cocktails where the showmanship of the cocktail making incorporates the instantaneous color change in front of the patron that ordered the drink.
In addition to designing the internal architectural alterations and a new external façade, in collaboration with his wife Margaret, Mackintosh designed almost every other aspect of the tearooms, including the interior design, furniture, cutlery, menus, and even the waitress uniforms.
Although Browning was arrested several times during these raids, the Rangers were unable to successfully charge him with any crimes until 1950, when he was indicted on gambling-related charges.
Amuleek Singh, however, created an entire ecosystem of making the tea and its packaging more appealing to white collar Indians who were latching on to the high end coffee joints.
The confidence of her owners was such that, before proving the profitability of Agamemnon in service, they were building two sister ships, Achilles (1866) and Ajax (1867).
The ability to drag a long stream of tea above the heads of the patrons without giving them a shower is an amusing novelty for the locals and tourists alike.
The Hatakeyama Memorial Museum of Fine Art (畠山記念館, Hatakeyama Kinenkan) is a private museum established in October 1964 in Tokyo, Japan.
Dishes include waffles, Eggs Benedict, idli burgers, akuri, ragi dhokla, chicken dishes, tortellini, sandwiches, soups, salads and various desserts, among others.
By the later 19th century, jumble dough had become substantially softer, and some recipes called for the cook to firm up the dough on ice for several hours before shaping.
In other parts of the Middle East, in Egypt it is consumed with boiled eggs and/or duggah, which is a mixture of herbs used as condiments.
A faithful reproduction of the front part of the house is located in the Tokugawa Art Museum which showcases a rotating exhibit of Japanese tea utensils.
The Book of Tea (茶の本, Cha no Hon) by Okakura Kakuzō is a long 1906 essay linking the role of chadō (teaism) to the aesthetic and cultural aspects of Japanese life and protesting Western caricatures of "the East".
See also Afternoon tea Tea party Tea sandwich Cuisine of Devon Cornish cuisine References Further reading Smillie, Susan (20 May 2010).
It was transported from Osaka Castle to Hizen Nagoya Castle in the fifth month of Bunroku 1 (1592), from where Hideyoshi launched the Japanese invasions of Korea (1592–98).
He then made a fair copy of the seven volumes, and the book was named Southern Record for the first time.
Eventually, Sōtan's youngest son, Sensō Sōshitsu, inherited that part of the estate, which came to be known as the home of the Urasenke.
Tea bricks were in fact the preferred form of currency over metallic coins for the nomads of Mongolia and Siberia.
Despite his illness, Bramah had been working on a book which was to be called Britain's Tea Heritage.
However, this results in the drink getting gradually diluted as the ice melts, leading to some restaurants preparing their cold milk tea via ice-less methods as a selling point.
Congressman De Priest responded to the Southern insults with strong language of his own in public comments.
The company also claims (although this is contested) to have invented the "original" recipe for Earl Grey tea, Grey having given the recipe to Robert Jackson & Co.
Malaysia nominated it, along with nasi lemak and roti canai, for 2024 United Nations recognition as intangible cultural heritage foods.
From the consumer perspective, milk tea is characterized by its sweet, creamy taste, suitable for many customers, not only students, but also children and office workers.
He described the first act as "Love"; the play opens auspiciously, using gentle themes and pleasant music to draw in the attention of the audience.
Tchai-Ovna Fine Teas, based in Glasgow, is a speciality leaf tea shop and blenders which retails a wide variety of tea online and wholesales to other businesses.
Teas from Europe and Asia were not introduced to Mexican agriculture, however, and have yet to reach the level of popularity that they have in many other countries.
Beginning in 1924, the Argentine government urged farmers to experiment by planting tea seeds that the government imported from China and then distributed to interested farmers.
Due to the tea pet not being glazed, the figurine absorbs some of the tea, resulting in the tea pet changing color over time, as well as building up a tea scent.
In his "sleek complacency", however, the Westerner tended to see in the tea ceremony only "another instance of the thousand and one oddities which constitute the quaintness and childishness of the East to him".
The texture of this type of mooncake crust is similar to the shortcrust pastry used in Western pie crusts or tart shells.
Quickly stores in San Francisco became the center of former Supervisor Ed Jew's extortion controversy, where he solicited bribes estimated at $84,000.
History Located in Mānoa Valley, the Waiʻoli Tea Room was formally dedicated in 1922, as part of the Salvation Army Girls' Home program to teach young women marketable job skills.
In the bakeries of Chinatown, San Francisco, it is commonly referred to as "sponge cake." Preparation Traditionally prepared wrapped cakes are usually steamed in a wok pan, however, Chinese-American sponge cakes are usually baked in an oven.
Orwell says tea should be poured first because "one can exactly regulate the amount of milk whereas one is liable to put in too much milk if one does it the other way round".
had offered dim sum for decades, it was not until the late 1980s that there was a broader public awareness of dim sum.
Names usually include the character for "hut", "hall", or "arbour", and reflect the spirit of rustic simplicity of the tea ceremony and the teachings of Zen Buddhism.
Quickly was founded in California in 1996 and started its trademark licensing program at the same time.
Its creed is "Train (修練) in order to better oneself; Serve (奉仕) your community; Friendship (友情) toward the world and among members." At first, the organization was called Seinenkai.
It sits on the edge of Taipei Basin; the entire city of Taipei can be seen from the mountain, especially on a cloudless day.
The incident led to the island-wide anti-government uprising by the Taiwanese people called the February 28 incident and the implementation of White Terror in Taiwan from 1949 to 1987.
The Brazilian Café (Arabic: مقهى البرازيلية) was an old well-known coffeehouse in Baghdad, Iraq, that was notable for its European style and significant artistic legacy.
The photograph depicts six tea cups and saucers lit so to form shadows that suggest the form of ballet dancers.
Maghrebi mint tea (at-tāy): (Arabic: الشاي, romanized: aš-šāy; Maghrebi Arabic: التاي at-tāy) is a green tea prepared with spearmint leaves and sugar, traditional to the Maghreb region (the northwest African countries of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, and Mauritania).
The Tibetan monks would consume the butter tea twice a day and on occasion enjoy the beverage with paksuma, a special rice porridge.
Fare The Brooke Bond Taj Mahal Tea House is associated with and serves Brooke Bond Taj Mahal and other tea products, totaling over 40 tea varieties.
Content Addressed to a Western audience, it was originally written in English and is one of the great English tea classics.
The 17th-century traveler Evliya Çelebi wrote that there were 70 simit bakeries in Istanbul during the 1630s.
Although there are imports from Japan and China, Ryukyu also produces tea and tea sets locally, providing conditions for the consumption of tea by the Ryukyu people.
Teh tarik madu is teh tarik blended with honey as part of its preparation, which is usually served cold.
In 2001, Tealuxe reported that its top store grossed between $1million and $1.2million annually, comparable with a Starbucks store at the time.
Tavalon Tea is headquartered in New York, New York and operates a website for online retail purchases from their warehouse facility in , New Jersey.
History Eierkoeken have their origins in the Dutch province of Brabant, where they were traditionally made on Christmas and Easter, as well as throughout the rest of the year.
It was the world's first museum devoted to the history of tea and coffee, covering 400 years of commercial and social history of two commodities, since their arrival in Europe from Africa and the Far East.
Meimei-an was designed in the style of the Fumai-ko school of tea ceremony (茶道), which was created by the seventh Lord of the Matsudaira to rule from Matsue.
Following the writings of Zeami, all major forms of Japanese traditional drama (Noh, kabuki, and jōruri) utilize the concept of jo-ha-kyū, from the choice and arrangement of plays across a day, to the composition and pacing of acts within a play, down to the individual actions of the actors.
For a period, Lollicup offered a trademark licensing program, which allowed the licensees (operators) to maintain complete control over the store without having to pay a royalty fee.
This repeated the curved form of the first floor and emphasised the heavily recessed entrance to the building below.
At that time people bought tea leaves from tea houses so that they could serve tea to visiting guests.
European colonists adopted the production of the yaupon leaves from the Native peoples and made an infusion which they called by various names including yaupon tea, Indian tea, Carolina tea, South Seas tea or Appalachia tea.
The Elmwood Inn in Perryville, Kentucky is a historic building which served as a mansion, a battlefield hospital in 1862, as an academy during 1891–1925, and later as a restaurant and as a tea house, and then again as a private residence.
Other names are based on the Byzantine Greek kollikion (κολλίκιον), or Ancient Greek kollyra (κολλύρα), or Greek koulouri (κουλούρι).
They have proven to be an attraction for tourists in destinations such as Sultan Ahmet and Taksim in Istanbul.
Chashitsu which are larger than 4.5 mats are called hiroma ("big room"), while those that are smaller are called koma ("small room").
History The house was constructed in November 1846 (Kouka 3) at Kōno Park, at the command of the 10th lord of the Saga clan, Lord Naomasa Nabeshima.
Along with Omotesenke and Mushakōjisenke, it is one of the three lines of the Sen family descending from Sen no Rikyū, which together are known as the san-Senke or the "three Sen houses/families" (三千家).
In 1879, a baker advertised in a newspaper that eierkoeken are specially recommended by the medical gentlemen, though it was stated that they were not especially intended for sick people but were recommended as a special treat.
Jo-an has been relocated a number of times, but since 1972 has formed part of the Urakuen gardens in Inuyama, Aichi Prefecture, part of the historic Owari Province which the Oda clan ruled starting in the 15th century.
It emerged in the mid-20th century, particularly in the post-World War II era, and is often associated with functionality and affordability.
Mizuya (水屋; "water room") is the term for the preparation area in a Japanese tea house (chashitsu) or attached to any venue used for the Japanese tea ceremony.
Pratt has addressed audiences from Zurich, Switzerland (Le Club des Buveurs de The Suisse) and London's Kew Gardens to Hangzhou (China Tea Research Institute).
Common shorthands include 'kya seint,' 'paw seint,' and 'cho seint.' Sweet Sweet varieties are called a-cho (အချို), which are typically sweetened with more condensed milk, relative to standard varieties.
However, from 1890 to 1908, Southern states dominated by white conservative Democrats passed new constitutions and laws to disenfranchise most blacks, excluding them from the political system.
The museum specialises in the collection, study and display of teaware, including many samples of Yixing teapots, from Jiangsu Province, China, as well as the world's oldest known extant teapot.
The restoration of no 217 included extensive re-creation of Mackintosh's interior schemes and decorative elements lost over the years.
This picture evolved after I had bought some inexpensive cups and saucers from Woolworths for our studio coffee breaks to replace our rather worn old mugs.
Cardamom (Arabic: هال, romanized: hāl) tea is very common in the Arab world, and is known for its strong aroma.
Clipper «Cutty Sark» was built in 1869 at the Scottish shipyard «Linton & Scott» by special order of the shipowner John Willis, to participate in tea races.
The factory and museum are located on the slopes of Chokarmudy, one of South India's highest peaks, from which the entire valley of Lockhart can be seen.
5000 list of fastest-growing privately held companies in America, with a rank of 2939 for its 3-year growth of 123% and an estimated revenue of $60 million in 2013.
However, in 2010 Brazil's national anti-drug body approved the consumption of the drink for religious rituals after decades of studies and talks with religious institutions.
Features The teahouse was designed by Hayahiko Takase, blending Western and Eastern characteristics.
Established in 1885, it is known for its trademark Fuchun baozi and its self-made tea Kuilongzhu (Chinese: 魁龙珠).
A tea room may be a room set aside in a hotel, especially for serving afternoon tea, or may be an establishment that only serves cream tea.
Based on Üsküdar court records (Şer’iyye Sicili) dated 1593, the weight and price of simit was standardized for the first time.
This same concept was later adapted into jōruri and kabuki, where the plays are often arranged into five acts with jo-ha-kyū in mind.
His name was Harusato, however, his nickname was Fumai-ko, thus his style of tea ceremony also took on the name Fumai-ryu (不昧流).
About one hundred years later, in 1686, Tachibana Jitsuzan, the chief vassal of the Kuroda clan purportedly happened to find the book while heading to Edo with his lord.
These buildings are the original stables of the 18th century palazzo designed by Francesco De Sanctis, architect of the Spanish Steps.
According to legend Oda Nobunaga saw the pillar with the two knots and remarked to Toyotomi Hideyoshi that it looked like his face.
In music The cultural importance of Senegalese tea drinking was underlined in the song Ataya, a track on Ismaël Lô's 1986 album, Natt.
Aramaic: ܩܶܠܽܘܪܳܐ/ܩܸܠܘܿܪܵܐ (qeluro/qelora); Turkish: gevrek; South Slavic đevrek, ђеврек, gjevrek, ѓеврек, геврек.
They were Isabel Cargill, granddaughter of William Cargill, founder of the city of Dunedin in New Zealand and Anna Maria Babington, descendant of Anthony Babington who was hanged in 1586 for conspiring against Elizabeth I.
Baanders and Jan Baanders designed the pavilion in the Modernist Nieuwe Bouwen or Nieuwe Zakelijkheid style of architecture, a Dutch take on Bauhaus.
Lu Yu's, heavily influenced by Buddhism, particularly the Zen–Chán Buddhist school, strongly influenced the development of Japanese tea culture.
History In 1978, Wang Chen Tsai-Hsia and her husband, Wang Yuan-hong (王元宏), a businessman who was in the textile trade, founded the Shiatzy International Company Limited in 1978.
When drinking tea, first place the tea on your lap, then while holding the bowl lightly with your right hand, lift and lift it with your left hand.
This was a period of peace, economic and cultural prosperity, and increased domestic self-sufficiency in sugar.
Sometimes thyme, mint or rose water is added, which is believed to be good for the stomach and heart.
The extent of teamaster Rikyū's involvement in the design of the room is not known, however he was in attendance on a number of occasions when tea was being served to guests in the room.
The beverage is traditionally prepared in a gourd vessel, also called mate in Spanish and cuia (= gourd) in Portuguese, from which it is drunk.
During the Kingdom of Iraq, the country saw a massive growing movement of art and poetry, especially in the 1940s.
Cederberg Tea House was founded by a mother/daughter duo from Johannesburg, South Africa in 2013, and gained popularity as the only South African tea shop in Seattle, Washington.
The photograph was exhibited in the London Salon of Photography in 1935, the first work of Cotton's to be shown outside Australia.
In 1880 Tate acquired rights to another process, invented in Belgium by Gustav Adant, where sugar "tablets" were manufactured on rotating machines and then sliced into cubes (at the time, they were called "dominoes").
This concept is applied to elements of the Japanese tea ceremony, martial arts (kenjutsu, iaido, kendō, karate), dramatic structure in the traditional theatre, and to the traditional collaborative linked verse forms renga and renku (haikai no renga).
Britain imported goods and raw materials from its colonies, and exported its cultural traditions to them.
The factory allows public visits during regular working hours, allowing visitors the opportunity to observe the various stages of tea processing.
Tinkham's proposals were defeated but added to the South's feeling of threat from Hoover's administration.
The common people began to eat wagashi that used a lot of sugar, and various types of wagashi were produced, especially in Kyoto.
The Lockhart Tea factory produces about 20 million kilograms of tea annually and is owned by Harrisons Malayalam Limited, one of South India's largest tea cultivators.
The entrance, on the south side, is said to have been designed larger than usual in order to allow Hideyoshi to enter with his armor on.
A heavy cream "cloud" ("Wölkje"—a diminutive of 'cloud' in Frisian) is added to the tea "water", and the sugar represents "land".
Career In the early Edo Period, Ogasawara Tadazane (1596-1667), the lord of the Kokura Domain, hired Ryōwa as Sadō (tea master).
Murder of Harry Lam On 30 November 2002, businessman Harry Lam Hon-lit was shot dead at point-blank range while eating breakfast at Luk Yu.
Expansion On September 25, 2022, Tealive opened its 800th branch in Batu Kawan, Penang, with plans to reach 1000 branches by 2024.
The handsome building served as a boarding school, the Elmwood Academy, from 1896 until 1924 under the care of headmaster Thomas Poynter.
Dutch exploration The next recorded reference to tea in India after the 12th century dates to 1598, when a Dutch traveler, Jan Huyghen van Linschoten, noted in a book that the leaves of the Assam tea plant were used by Indians as a vegetable, eaten with garlic and oil, and as a drink.
Traditional medicinal infusions are common in some Mexican immigrant communities in the United States.
The ship's owner's brother, who was on the crew, suggested that the captain take Cutty to the port of Cape Town for repairs, but the ship's carpenter managed to make a new rudder.
In the Basque Country, in particular, it is common to have a mid-morning snack consisting of high-protein food like eggs, bacon, or cured meat on bread, called "hamarretako" (lit.
Sugar is added to the teapot and the tea is poured into small glasses of a certain height and then poured back and forth from the glass to the teapot several times so that foam appears in the glass.
Although the first tea bushes were commercially grown in Azerbaijan as early as 1912, tea-growing gained commercial value in the 1930s under Soviet rule.
It also hosted musical events, with performances from songwriters, jazz musicians and other music artists.
The Chicago district represented by De Priest had a reputation among some whites for political corruption, at a time when Chicago and other big cities were thought by whites to be dominated generally by machine politics built on ethnic immigrants and their descendants.
This resulted in Hong Kong–style milk tea (among other cultural items, like cha chaan teng) becoming part of the Hong Kong identity.
The tea garden was a part of early English commercial pleasure gardens; often parties of couples visited these, the men occupying themselves with lawn bowls and beer or wine, while the ladies went to the tea garden.
The number of train was changed from the 6865 / 6866 to 16865 / 16866 since December 2010 onwards, as a part of train management system over the entire Indian Railways network.
Mooncakes are luxurious gifts in Singapore and are very popular as gifts to clients, friends and family.
The museum contains exhibits on tea pioneers, including James Taylor and Thomas Lipton, as well as much vintage tea-processing paraphernalia.
Regional variations Australia and New Zealand Australia and New Zealand have "morning tea" that occurs at approximately 10:30 a.m.
In Hannah Glasse's 1747 The Art of Cookery, "jumballs" are made from sugar, flour, eggs, butter, and almonds with rosewater.
The chain was founded in 1978 by the Syrian entrepreneur Khalil Nasraui, as a small shop next to the São João and Ipiranga avenue, in the city of São Paulo.
In popular culture Romanian conductor Sergiu Celibidache's focus was on creating, during each concert, the optimal conditions for what he called a "transcendent experience".
The trades used by the artisans were passed from generation to generation within families, such as the use of nature, and repetition of patterns, descendant from traditional Persian design.
Rembertus Dodonaeus wrote in his Cruydt-boeck (Herb book) from 1608 about the healing properties of eyercoekskens.
Cheese tea, also known as naigai cha, is a beverage consisting of fruity, layered iced teas topped with a pillow of salted, whipped cream cheese.
Snowskin mooncakes in Singapore feature flavors ranging from Lychee Martini, Baileys, Matcha Red Bean, durian, and various fruit pastes.
It is also popular in the Gulf Arab region, where it is known as Chai Karak (Arabic: شاي كرك, Urdu: کڑک چائے).
Ginger is then grated into the mixture, followed by the addition of tea masala, typically consisting of crushed ginger, crushed cardamom, lemongrass, cloves, and cinnamon.
Japanese exchange students attended these lectures, and I explained that there were many other elements of classical Eastern thought in Heidegger's philosophy and gave some examples.
Chamei (literally, "tea name") is a Japanese word that may refer to the name given to a particular blend of powdered green tea (matcha) or to the name bestowed on an advanced practitioner of Japanese tea ceremony.
It also introduced four new menus: Signature Brown Sugar Pearl Milk Tea, Roasted Milk Tea with Handmade Pearls, Signature Passion Fruit Green Tea, and Grapefruit Chia Tea Booster.
America Europe Middle East Africa Oceania Asia Collaborations In 2012, AirAsia announced that it would offer Chatime on its flights and claimed that is would be the "world's first and only in-flight bubble tea".
James Richardson recorded a description of a Moroccan tea ceremony in the 1840s, and said that during his travels tea was drunk widely and all day long.
As a result of the chaos of the 8/15 liberation and the 6/25 war, the former style of dabang gradually disappeared and transformed into a commercial café.
The collection was highly regarded as a direct record of Rikyu's teachings and exerted a great influence on the process of the concept building of wabi-cha.
Okakura had been taught at a young age to speak English and was proficient at communicating his thoughts to the Western mind.
In Tibet pieces of tea are broken from tea bricks, and boiled overnight in water, sometimes with salt.
Simit are generally sold by street vendors in Turkey, who either have a simit trolley or carry the simit in a tray on their head.
The power generation plant of the estate dates back to 1920s; a rail engine wheel of the Kundala Valley Railway that shuttled between Munnar and Top Station by 1924.
The historic building The original one-story lava rock and shingle bungalow features an open lānai (veranda), a large room with an open-beam ceiling, fireplace, and tall double-hung windows, and another smaller room with a fireplace.
The term is particularly associated with the Japanese tea ceremony, and is often brushed onto scrolls which are hung in the tea room.
When the chain's Shanghai branch opened in 2017, reports indicated that customers paid others to wait in line for up to three hours on their behalf.
The Elmwood Inn building was the Elmwood Academy from 1891 to 1925, built c.1850, served as a hospital in the Battle of Perryville.
History Gunpowder tea was introduced into North Africa by the British in the 18th and 19th centuries via Morocco and Algeria.
This is what is meant by "one time, one meeting." This passage established the yojijukugo (four-letter idiomatic) form ichi-go ichi-e (一期一会) known today.
Red bean ice: A drink with red bean, evaporated milk, and ice Soft drinks: Coca-Cola, 7 Up, Fanta, and cream soda are some common selections.
The old tsukubai and some tobi ishi remain in the old park while some other items, like the tōrōs, are being kept in the museum storage.
Similar products Certain varieties of Romanian covrigi are similar to simit, the places that sell them even being known as simigerii.
Preparation Traditionally, eierkoeken were made with ammonium bicarbonate (NH4HCO3) as a leavening agent, which releases carbon dioxide without leaving an alkaline taste.
A three-story building recreates the ambience of a 1970s domestic house, with a view of Hanok Village.
References External links Image of a small built-in mizuya Image of built-in mizuya at Doyu-an View of the main mizuya at the Urasenke Konnichian historical tea room complex, Kyoto
In the 1880s, fine hotels in both the United States and England began to offer tea service in tea rooms and tea courts, and by 1910 they had begun to host afternoon tea dances as dance crazes swept both the US and the UK.
In Malaysia, servers who are adept at pouring the tea from further away, theatrically and seemingly in "defi[ance of] physics", become local celebrities, and pulling contests draw thousands of spectators.
The working class of Hong Kong usually have breakfast in these Cantonese restaurants in the early morning.
Other such facilities included the Kaiulani Home for Girls, the Castle Home, and the Catholic Orphanage.
However, modern researchers believe that the book contains information not from Sen no Rikyū and regard it as a forgery.
See also List of tourist attractions in Taiwan Taipei Futai Street Mansion Monopoly Bureau References External links Taipei Story House website (in Chinese) Taipei Story House (in English)
It is made by combining crushed Oreo cookies on top of vanilla or chocolate pudding, and adding gummy candy worms on top.
Today, Fruit Roll-Ups remain manufactured by General Mills and distributed under the Betty Crocker brand in the United States and under the Uncle Tobys brand in Australia.
Chinese hawthorn is the traditional fruit used, though in ancient times other fruits were also used.
A2 Corporation focused on recovering from the deaths of its founders organizationally and financially, relied on its New Zealand licensees to develop the New Zealand market, and turned its focus to developing overseas markets.
Orange was coated in milk chocolate, while the cherry and raspberry were coated with dark chocolate.
More than 90% of babies aged 12 to 18 months old, and nearly all toddlers older than that, are given a protein source at least once a day.
This is done either manually, or by a series of automatic blades, or by a process called grinding (a method of deboning in which the softer parts of the chicken carcass are forced through a mesh, leaving behind the more solid pieces, resulting in a meat paste.
News of a new variety of sundae quickly spread by word-of-mouth and through correspondence and soon progressed far beyond Latrobe.
From Germany, candy canes spread to other parts of Europe, where they were handed out during plays reenacting the Nativity.
Gingerbread moulds often displayed actual happenings, by portraying new rulers and their consorts, for example.
The explanation given is that the Milky Way bar's three ingredients in the US (chocolate, nougat, and caramel) were originally meant to represent the three musketeers.
The first time the "Ants on a Log" snack was mentioned in print was in an article published by the Star Tribune on February 15, 1959, which reads, "Anne Marie is working on snacks.
The wet food was sold in resealable pouches, which contained aluminium, sandwiched between two layers of plastic which eliminated the need for preservatives and meant that the food could be minimally processed.
In 2005, daylight saving time was extended to the first Sunday in November—just long enough to include Halloween.
In addition, he used the white colour of the converted sticks to teach children about the Christian belief in the sinless life of Jesus.
"Taquitos" in the Mexican border cities of Tijuana and Mexicali refer to small tacos sold in stands, rather than the rolled taco dish.
Babies typically move to consuming baby food once nursing or formula is not sufficient for the child's appetite.
Tanghulu, tang hulu, or bingtang hulu is a traditional Chinese snack consisting of several malt sugar coated fruits of Chinese hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida) on a bamboo skewer.
Post announced its new product to the press in 1964 several months before they went to market, calling them "Country Squares".
From the bone meal, it had about 12 ppm fluorine, which works out to about what pediatricians were prescribing about four decades later.
Children would often place these stickers on their lunch boxes to prove they had eaten Fruit by the Foot.
This gave Drane the idea of creating a convenient prepackaged lunch featuring Oscar Mayer's trademark lunch meats.
It was formerly served by the drive-in restaurant Sonic, but it is now made by companies such as Jimmy Dean.
They are sold individually in orange, kiwi-strawberry, grape, blue raspberry, fruit punch, citrus, and lemonade flavors Little Hug Fruit Slushee They are drinks sold in plastic pouches meant to be frozen that were released in 2015 in the flavors strawberry, blue raspberry, and lemonade.
Baby Bottle Pop is a brand of lollipops introduced by manufacturer Topps in 1998 in a baby bottle shape.
Fiesta Nachos: A kit consisting of nacho chips with "queso blanco" dipping cheese and salsa, a small Strawberry Banana Prime bottle, and a snack-sized Feastables Milk Chocolate Bar, based on the "Nachos with Cheese Dip and Salsa" Lunchable.
Red Velvet was initially released as a limited flavor in 2013, but sold so well that it was kept in production until 2017.
On 1 January 2014, The a2 Milk Company exited its joint venture with MWD by acquiring MWD's stake for a "nominal" amount.
Although neither Pablum nor its biscuit predecessor was the first food designed and sold specifically for babies, it was the first baby food to come precooked and thoroughly dried.
In popular culture The children's board game Candy Land includes a "Gumdrop Pass" and "Gumdrop Mountain" amongst its confectionery-themed nomenclature.
The name "Tater Tot" was created in the 1950s, and soon trademarked by a member of the Ore-Ida company's research committee who used a thesaurus to come up with an alliterative name.
On November 16, 2012, Hostess officially announced that it "will be winding down operations and has filed a motion with the U.S.
He ordered cooks to prepare the hawthorn with rock sugar, advising Huang to take five to ten of them before each meal.
In 2014, McDonald's introduced a mascot to Happy Meals in the United States named Happy, who originated in France and some international countries as early as 2009.
The sausage in a bun that is called a hot dog in other countries is known as an "American Hot Dog" and is usually available at the same locations.
Old-fashioned versions of the cake are basically a round braided brioche without filling but these days bakeries try to outdo one another with creative fillings.
See also Fruit by the Foot – Fruit-based snack made by General Mills Fruit Roll-Ups – American fruit snacks that originated in the 1980s References External links Official website
Tropical Variety Pack Sold in packages containing orange, fruit punch, lemonade, and tropical punch flavored drinks.
Targeted at children, they were acorn-shaped with a soft "licorice-like" exterior and a liquid inside, including "strawberries and pear puree concentrate", and came in two flavors: "Strawberry Splash" and "Gushin' Grape".
Food franchises Potato Corner and Papa John's also offer tater tots in select locations, though in the latter case these are branded as "Potato Tots".
For Chinese New Year, chocolate coins are sometimes now given in place of traditional Hongbao or "lucky money".
In recent years, it has become increasingly popular to decorate caramel apples for holidays like Halloween.
The bars cost five cents when they were introduced, and they were marketed as one of the largest chocolate bars available.
Baker's innovations solved these problems and made it possible to form chicken nuggets in any shape by first coating the meat in vinegar, salt, grains, and milk powder to make it hold together and then using an egg- and grain-based batter that could be fried as well as frozen.
Internationally Outside of the U.S., Go-Gurt is sold as "Yoplait Tubes" in Canada, as "Frubes" in the United Kingdom (previously as a sub-brand of Petit Filous), and was also sold in Japan as "グルト" ("Guruto").
Discontinued products Dizzy Grizzlies were a variant of Teddy Grahams, and were so called because they would "become dizzy" due to the snacker looking at each side again and again, as the backside is covered with chocolate and sprinkles.
The FTC is responsible for the regulation of advertising that they deem as being unfair or deceptive to the viewer.
20,000 children signed up online in 17 days, and many came back again and again to play branded games.
Until the late 1970's the Borden corporation also produced a brand of animal crackers, which came in a red box featuring the Elsie the Cow logo.
The gâteau des rois (referred to as royaume, brioche des rois, or coque des rois) is mainly popular in the Occitan-speaking regions of the south of France.
Classically, the preferred apples for use in caramel apples are tart-tasting apples with a crisp texture such as Granny Smith.
In the mid-1920s, records of Girl Scouts preparing "Some Mores" using the modern recipe appear, with the contraction s'more arising by the 1930s.
in 1964, fans of the Beatles in the US pelted the band with jelly beans (emulating fans in the UK who threw the British candy Jelly Babies at George Harrison, who reportedly liked eating them).
Ovaltine, also known by its original name Ovomaltine, is a brand of milk flavouring product made with malt extract, sugar (except in Switzerland), and whey.
Fudgsicle, originally sold as Fudgicle, is a flat, frozen dessert that comes on a stick and is chocolate-flavored with a texture somewhat similar to ice cream.
A plan offered in November 2009 would allow shareholders of Bristol-Myers to exchange one dollar of stock in that company for $1.11 worth of shares in Mead Johnson for the 133.5 million shares in the firm, which would value the company at $7.7 billion based on the stock's then current closing price.
"Advergaming" is a relatively new term in which computer games are built completely around a product with the ultimate goal of maintaining the child's attention to that specific product for longer than it would be held with a traditional commercial.
In 2022, the company released an advertisement more directly targeted at parents in light of new regulations, starring a character named "Juicio".
It is typically made by skewering hawthorn fruits and coating them in heated sugar syrup, which hardens in the cold.
It does not contain common allergens such as chicken eggs, lactose or nuts of any kind, while it does contain wheat and corn, which can be allergenic for some.
After this book was published, German bakers began baking ornamented fairy-tale houses of lebkuchen (gingerbread).
Kaufman told the Minneapolis–Saint Paul magazine City Pages that the original conception was for the yogurt to be firm, so the tube would stand straight up—like an ice pop—but when that didn't work out, they shifted toward a creamy yogurt.
Pre-made frozen corn dogs can also be heated in a microwave oven, but the cornbread coating will lack crisp texture.
Tip Top director Ben Schurr said that the previous version of the flavour had 5–6 gumdrops per scoop, and that the new version has 9–10 gumdrops per scoop.
Advertisers spend approximately $1 billion on television marketing that directly targets children and another $5 billion on other promotions.
In their first year, they earned $100,000,000 and after five years were earning $300,000,000 annually.
In December 2017 the company announced that in the summer of 2018 Geoffrey Babidge, who had been nearing retirement age, would step down and Jayne Hrdlicka would take over as CEO; at that time she was CEO of a subsidiary of Qantas.
External links Products Page on Hostess' website Products Page on Crumbs Carnival Treats website The T.W.I.N.K.I.E.S.
History Twinkies were invented on April 6, 1930, by Canadian-born baker James "Jimmy" Alexander Dewar for the Continental Baking Company in Schiller Park, Illinois.
This candy is formed by allowing a supersaturated solution of sugar and water to crystallize onto a surface suitable for crystal nucleation, such as a string, stick, or plain granulated sugar.
A2 Australia established new contracts with the dairy farmers who had A1 protein-free herds, promising better payment terms—a week in advance instead of once per month, after shipment.
Two problems the meat industry was facing at the time were being able to clump ground meat without a skin and producing a batter coating that could be both deep-fried and frozen without becoming detached.
Their "Mellow crème Pumpkin" was made to look like an autumnal fruit; each pumpkin contained 25 calories and 5 grams sugar.
The company's shares were delisted from the Amsterdam Stock Exchange at the end of 2007 as Danone gained full control.
In the United Kingdom, chocolate coins mimic the design of real money; they are traditionally bought around Christmas and are used to decorate the Christmas tree and to fill children's stockings.
The original mascot was Sydney, a caricature of modern Australian culture, who wore a hat, vest, and tie and spoke with an Australian accent, and was voiced by John Cameron Mitchell.
In October 2002, the food and drinks division of Novartis, the maker of Ovaltine, was bought by Associated British Foods.
However, the granules of the tea contained 94 to 96% sugar, which means that a fruit tea mixed according to specifications contained around two grams of sugar per 100 milliliters.
The a2 Milk Company launched an infant formula in New Zealand and Australia in September 2013 and an A1 protein-free thickened cream was launched in January 2014 under the a2 and a2 MILK brands.
History The origin of the cake tradition was popularly believed to be related to the Roman Saturnalia.
Capri Sun GmbH (renamed from SiSi-Werke in 2018) is organized and headquartered in Germany and is a subsidiary of Swiss companies Capri Sun AG and Capri Sun Group Holding AG and of German company Wild.
See also List of apple dishes Lollipop Tanghulu Caramel apple References External links Media related to Candy apples at Wikimedia Commons
According to Kellogg's, the rice used in the US version of the cereal is grown in the states of Louisiana and Arkansas.
It also used to link to the BuzzFeed article in the bio, but this was later changed to their official website.
Further development toward plastic packaging continued in 2003 after the 2001 change was considered a financial success.
In 2024, Boston hospital Shriner’s Children issued a press release warning about the possibility of severe scald burns as a result of following online recipes to make Tanghulu.
In 2007, French conglomerate Danone acquired Royal Numico for €12.3 billion, after the Numico board accepted the offer.
There have been caramel apple and green apple, s'mores and pumpkin spice, carrot corn (green and orange, with a carrot cake flavor), and birthday cake candy corn flavors.
The linear viscoelastic (LVE) property can be probed on pre-shaped gum cuds through a small isothermal strain deformation (i.e., below yield strain) under small amplitude oscillatory shear (SAOS).
The name "Tater Tot" is a registered trademark of Ore-Ida—which has been a subsidiary of Heinz (now part of Kraft Heinz) since 1965—but has become so widely associated with the dish that it is often used as a generic term.
Their use of the spices nutmeg and mace give the basic animal cracker a somewhat different taste from the Nabisco crackers.
The firm's first major infant formula was developed in 1910, and Dextri-Maltose, a carbohydrate-based milk modifier was introduced in 1911, making it the first American product for infants to be clinically approved and recommended by doctors.
Ovaltine also expanded by offering chocolate bars, chocolate Easter eggs, parfait, cookies, and breakfast cereals flavored with the original powder.
Most historians suggest that jelly beans were first associated with celebrations of Easter in the United States sometime during the 1930s due to their egg-like shape.
The pits and seeds of the hawthorn are emptied and are commonly filled with sweet red bean paste before being skewered and dipped.
Children do not begin to be able to understand advertising until about 7–8 years of age, and even at this age children's cognitive development is still not able to distinguish misleading advertising from others.
Studies also indicate they differ in nutrition, with plant-based alternatives typically containing less saturated fat, and that replacing meat with plant-based alternatives may lower LDL and total cholesterol.
The company also asserts that their products are low in sodium, fat, and saturated fats, have 0 grams of trans fat, and contain fewer than 400 calories.
In Argentina, sales continue with the comics in Spanish using the name "Yo amo Bazooka" (I love Bazooka).
The brand also has animal mascots, originally starting with a monkey, but later also including an alligator, a zebra, a jaguar, an elephant and a bear.
Nutritional information A standard-size 3 Musketeers bar (60 g) has 257 kilocalories (1,080 kilojoules) of food energy, 7 grams of total fat, and 40 grams of sugar, while the mini-size bar (serving size 41 g) has 179 kilocalories (750 kilojoules), 5 grams of total fat, and 27 grams of sugar.
BYU receives 55% of the royalties, which will go toward BYU's mentoring program and research, while Ogden receives the rest.
However, there is a scene with two children, a boy and a girl, where the little boy is supposedly proposing to the little girl with the Ring Pop.
Bristol-Myers announced in February 2009 that it was going to spin off Mead Johnson to focus on its primary pharmaceutics business, with an initial public offering estimated to bring in $562.5 million and would leave Bristol-Myers with 90% ownership of the firm.
McCormack's brother-in-law, Gregory Harding Keller, was a seminary student in Rome who spent his summers working in the candy factory back home.
Nutrition experts recommend, that children should not be given any sweetened beverages, but drink water instead.
More elaborate versions of s'mores came about in the 1990s, and today, s'mores are popular in the United States and Canada, where they are regarded as nostalgic.
They are created by dipping or rolling apples-on-a-stick in hot caramel, sometimes then rolling them in nuts or other small savories or confections, and allowing them to cool.
The brand's current marketing and product packaging incorporate this feature of the product: "The snack that smiles back!
In 2009, the company expanded to Sweden, Norway, and the United States and by 2014 was the UK's best-selling baby food company.
At the time, breast-feeding had declined in the middle and upper classes, with the effect that the diets of babies were often deficient in essential elements.
Many gingerbread people have a face, though whether the features are indentations within the face itself or other candies stuck on with icing or chocolate varies from recipe to recipe.
The company gave the development of the product to Bob Bernstein, who then came up with the idea for the Happy Meal.
The three characters are seen in Kellogg's 1933 national advertising and the three have since appeared together in many forms of advertising, including radio, movie shorts, and comic strips.
In the United States, the National Gingerbread House Competition began in 1992 at the Grove Park Inn in Asheville, North Carolina.
Fruit Roll-Ups have featured variants on the original plain sheets such as punch out shapes on the rolls and temporary tattoos for tongues and formerly on skin.
He left his job as managing director at Nickelodeon and launched the business with personal savings.
Regional variations and analogues In Scotland, macaroni and cheese can often be found in pies, known as a macaroni pie.
The wrapped coins are warmed and struck on both sides with coin-like dies, simultaneously embossing a design onto both the foil and the chocolate underneath.
While Jelly Belly still makes candy corn, the largest manufacturer of candy corn is Brach's Confections owned by the Ferrara Candy Company.
By the late 1990s, competitors of Brach's realized that the market for the special Halloween candy pumpkin was expanding.
Brazilian fast-food chain Bob's offered since 1959, milkshakes and sundaes made with Ovaltine where it goes by the name of "Ovomaltine," which became a flagship product of the fast-food chain in Brazil.
An updated version of the elf-like Snap Crackle and Pop appeared for the first time on television in 1960; previously it was advertised by Woody Woodpecker.
However, in 1885, the brothers were persuaded to join the temperance movement, and hence poured their entire stock into the gutters of Guildford High Street.
In some recipes for baked goods, apple sauce can be used as a substitute for fat or eggs to make them low-fat or vegan.
The factory is shown to have survived completely intact, allowing the Griffins to use it as a food source and a means to rebuild society.
The Rubin family eventually achieved control of Tootsie Roll and agreed that Bernard Rubin would run the company as president.
"Adorable Alert: Cow & Gate Pushes The Cute Envelope in New Spot – A bunch of cute kids messing around in a recording studio turns into an impromptu performance of an 80's classic".
United Kingdom The Twelfth cake, Twelfth-night cake, or Twelfth-tide cake was once popular in the United Kingdom on Twelfth Night.
In 2025, Consumer Reports assessed that Lunchly kits were not generally healthier than those of competitor Lunchables, and contained concerning levels of lead and phthalates.
Currie believes that the reason for the success of Goody Goody Gum Drops is its appeal to children, saying that ice cream can "arguably be a little bit bland", and that it is not uncommon for families to have an "adult" flavour and one that caters more for children.
The game was similar to Club Penguin, it included character customization, socialization, decorating your home area, and minigames.
Products Kidfresh meals are promoted as being made with natural ingredients and are free from artificial colors, flavors, and preservatives.
On July 8, 1986, President Ronald Reagan signed the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1986 into law; it contained a daylight saving rider which continued daylight saving time until the early morning of last Sunday in October; this did not include Halloween night.
The product was developed at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto to combat infant malnutrition.
For example, the strawberry flavor contains no strawberries, and the only ingredient derived from fruit is concentrated pear juice.
In Chile, the Happy Meal, along with kids' meals at other fast food chains, no longer includes free toys, in response to a 2012 law banning such toys in a move to prevent obesity.
Each 3 Musketeers package contained three flavors, chocolate, strawberry and vanilla, hence the name, which was derived from the 1844 novel The Three Musketeers by Alexandre Dumas.
Apple sauce (in American English usually the closed compound applesauce) is a purée (not necessarily served as a true sauce) made of apples.
Variations While cheddar cheese is most commonly used for macaroni and cheese, other cheeses may also be used—usually sharp in flavour—and two or more cheeses can be combined.
When milk is added to the cereal the rice tends to collapse, creating the characteristic "snap, crackle and pop" sounds.
In 1862 he transferred premises to 7, Exeter Street and in 1912 Edwin Farley sold the business, including the secret formula for Farley's rusks to Mr William Bolitho Trahair, prior to emigrating to Canada.
In 2011, Ovaltine was banned in Denmark under legislation forbidding the sale of food products with added vitamins unless claims about their effectiveness are proven.
Johannes introduced Backhaus to his brother, Martinus van der Hagen, who owned a factory in The Netherlands producing margarine and dairy products.
A gingerbread relief of the patron saint was frequently given as a gift on a person's name day, the day of the saint associated with his or her given name.
In 1998, the bar's advertisements featured three men dressed as the legendary Three Musketeers to market the "45% less fat" campaign.
In April 2007 A2 Corporation announced a deal in which the joint venture would license rights to the Original Foods Company, whose branding the A1 protein-free product would carry, and in which the product would be sold in several midwestern states through the Hy-Vee supermarket chain.
The most common variety is light-colored and slightly sweet, but darker chocolate-flavored and colorful frosted varieties are also sold.
The meal, which included a standard Big Mac or Chicken McNuggets combo meal, came with a collectible toy of the brand's mascot Cactus Buddy or four-eyed variants of McDonaldland characters Grimace, Birdie or the Hamburglar.
In the late 19th and early 20th century, chocolate pudding was thought of as an appropriate food for invalids or children as well as a dessert.
ISI acquired Twinlab in September 2003, followed by another string of acquisitions in the dietary supplement market.
Reception A 1991 Sun-Sentinel review said that the insides oozed rather than gushed, and found the confectionery surprisingly pleasant.
Left with no livelihood, they converted their now empty shop into a dairy, trading under the name of the West Surrey Dairy.
However, other shapes, especially seasonal themes (Christmas, Halloween, Easter, etc.), and characters are also common.
Chicago confectioners, the Bunte Brothers, filed one of the earliest patents for candy cane making machines in the early 1920s.
Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches are seen in a poor light by proponents of gourmet cuisine, who have historically used the sandwich as an example of low-quality food.
Due to rising costs and wartime restrictions on sugar, the vanilla and strawberry pieces were phased out leaving only the popular chocolate piece.
Also in 1946, Dave Barham opened the first location of Hot Dog on a Stick at Muscle Beach in Santa Monica, California.
In 1895, Johnson developed a side business called The American Ferment Company to create a digestive aid.
Products Plum Baby had 38 products ranges including Stage 1 – 3 baby and toddler food, snack ranges and others.
Marketing and sales channels Yashili sell its products via a comprehensive national sales and distribution network, which covers all regions within mainland China.
In the episode "Angela's New Best Friend" on the TV series Who's the Boss (season 2 episode 22), Angela gets upset when she can't find her Butter Brickle ice cream and Tony tells her "Some other person ate it." when in fact it was just in another spot in the freezer.
In February 2017, British consumer goods company Reckitt (then known as Reckitt Benckiser) bid $16.7 billion for the company.
Manufacture Until the sale by Nestlé, Juicy Juice was manufactured in Ocean Spray production facilities, as a result of a 2002 joint agreement between Nestlé and Ocean Spray.
In therapeutic diets The BRAT diet and the CRAM diet, which are given to children with diarrhea and stomach problems, include apple sauce.
A common misconception regarding the Three Musketeers bar and Milky Way bar is that on release the two candies had their respective labels swapped in manufacturing.
The production method, called "corn starch modeling", likewise remains the same, though tasks initially performed by hand were soon taken over by machines made for that purpose.
They are also sometimes sold at carnivals and fairs Israel – almost solely sold in cities' squares on Yom Ha'atzmaut eve (Israel Independence Day) as part of the street celebrations.
A 2019 review in The BMJ, which criticized the health effects of marketing sugary drinks to children, found that the marketing techniques introduced by Philip Morris were still in use, even after Kraft became independent of it in 2007.
Children's song about making peanut butter and jelly were written, and "It's Peanut Butter Jelly Time" by Buckwheat Boyz became a popular internet meme in the early 2000s.
Composition Strawberry-flavored Fruit Gushers are composed of sugar, dried corn syrup, corn syrup, modified corn starch, fructose, pear concentrate, and grape juice concentrate.
A 2017 New York Times article found that Nestlé had been financing the society and vetting the articles before publication, leading to questions of scientific impartiality.
The designs include McDonald's, Coca-Cola, Hello Kitty & Peanuts, Beanie Babies, Barbie & Hot Wheels, and Shrek, Jurassic Park & Minions.
See also Starch mogul Dragée Gummy bears Skittles (candy) Turkish delight Nerds (candy) Jelly babies Jujube (confectionery) Gumdrop Mint (candy) Jelly (preserves) Jelly (dessert) Jelly bean rule References External links Media related to Jelly beans at Wikimedia Commons
Fruit by the Foot is a fruit snack made by General Mills and distributed under the Betty Crocker brand.
During the 1920s, the business transferred to Woolster Street and gave up its agencies to concentrate on rusk production.
In addition, the brand changed its mascots, ran an ad campaign aimed directly at children, which included games where children could sign up and win prizes.
United States One theory is that James Hemings brought the recipe to the United States after discovering it in France, prompted by Thomas Jefferson who was interested in extruded pasta.
Advertising and promotion Commercial jingle Commercials for the snack featured a song with the slogan you can lick it, shake it, and dunk it.
After the announcement, people across the country were outraged and many people wrote about their disappointment on social media.
Mead Johnson & Company, LLC is an American company that is a manufacturer of infant formula, both domestically and globally, with its best-known product Enfamil.
The original recipe used strawberries, raspberries and crushed pineapple with marshmallow syrup, chopped nuts, and pitted black cherries.
The modern definition of a taquito as a rolled-tortilla dish was given in 1929 in a book of stories of Mexican people in the United States aimed at a youth audience, where the dish was noted as a particularly popular offering of railroad station vendors.
In December 2019, Dunkaroos were briefly brought back in Australia by Nestlé with a chocolate-hazelnut flavour and kangaroo-shaped biscuits.
In May 2020, Dunkaroos began arriving at 7-Eleven stores in the United States until being brought to other stores, including Walmart, Target, and Kroger, a few months afterwards.
Original advertising was done through Nickelodeon whom he offered a share of revenue in exchange for free advertising.
Conversely, legislators in Arizona prohibited such restrictions, and Florida state senators proposed the same.
Several bakeries in Singapore sold dirt cakes served in flowerpots after the dessert appeared on the Taiwanese show A Hint of You.
The product is known for being mainly focused on children and consists of two (usually chocolate) biscuits with a sweet crème filling, with the difference that each cookie is modeled in the shape of a face with two holes for the eyes and one for the mouth.
Similar international flavors A similar flavor has been sold in both Italy and Malta under the name puffo, which is Italian for 'Smurf', as well as in Germany under the names Schlumpf and Engelblau, which translate to 'Smurf' and 'angel blue', respectively.
Numerous variations are made by swapping elements, such as graham crackers for ginger snap, saltines or potato chips, marshmallow for Peeps, and chocolate for Reese's Peanut Butter Cups.
In the summer of 2021, the Limited flavor "Mister-E" was discontinued shortly after its two-month marketing surge.
Advertising In the 1970s, Kellogg's revitalized Pop-Tarts advertising with a talking toaster named Milton.
Early versions of the dish using both egg and flour can be found in the 1918 edition of Fannie Farmer's Boston Cooking School Cook Book and in the 1903 edition of Mary Harris Frazer's Kentucky Receipt Book.
To ensure a random distribution of the pieces, the youngest person is to place themselves under the table and name the recipient of each piece as they are cut.
Marketing The Dunkaroos mascot is a cartoon kangaroo, explaining the product's name which is a portmanteau of dunk and kangaroos.
Boston Market, Michelina's, Kraft Foods, Cracker Barrel, and Stouffer's are some of the more recognizable brands of prepared and frozen macaroni and cheese available in the United States.
Away from a campfire, s'mores are sometimes prepared under a broiler, microwave, grill, or at the table in restaurants furnished with hibachi grills.
Nutricia is a Danone brand that specialises in therapeutic food and infant formula, including medical nutrition for babies with specific needs.
For a long time the management consisted of the three brothers Claus Hipp, Georg Johannes Hipp and Paulus Hipp.
The two most popular colors for growlers are amber (a brownish hue) or clear (often called "flint").
A widget is a device placed in a container of beer to manage the characteristics of the beer's head.
They are first mentioned in 1513 and from 1531 to 1572 were the most important of three items that apprentices were required to submit to the guild in order to move up from journeyman to master status.
The neck of the Asante Jug bears six roundels, three on either side, each with a falcon spreading its wings, with one to each side of the spout and two either side of the handle.
Bush White House state china has a gold rim with a green basket-weave pattern and a historically-inspired gold eagle.
Any beer which has dropped bright or fined will have a layer of yeast sediment at the bottom of its storage vessel.
Sausages, offal, and raw watery fruits (oranges, plums, peaches, apricots, and grapes) were apparently considered uniquely appropriate for starting the meal, as those foods appear only in the entree de table.
It is applicable to most types of table service: without waitstaff, the host or hosts may find it informative in judging when to clear away a course or the meal.
There seems no doubt that this Spanish word is the source of the English salver; a parallel is found in the origin of the term credenza, which comes from Italian.
a mug holds more liquid than the cup, as the latter is used in a close proximity of a teapot anyhow.
Plain and ornate platters suitable for more formal settings or occasions are made of, or plated with, silver, and antique examples are considered quite valuable.
During the Shang and Zhou dynasties of Bronze Age China, it became one of a number of designs of Chinese ritual bronzes.
Sometimes the basket contains other side dishes as well, such as a container of coleslaw or a pickle.
The order of attestations in charters was an indication of status, and dish-bearers and butlers usually attested charters above ordinary thegns.
The President had also commissioned a gold plaque as a token of goodwill for the last ruling Sultan of Zanzibar, Sayyid Jamshid bin Abdullah Al Said.
Presumably many such sets existed, but recycling the precious metal elements was too tempting at some point, leaving only the porcelain cups.
Health concerns Anchovies can concentrate domoic acid, which causes amnesic shellfish poisoning in humans, sea mammals, and birds.
By the later part of the decade, though, shakers were quickly giving way to modern electric appliances that either added a mixing unit to the shaker's lid or did away with the shaker entirely, with the introduction of the electric blender.
A spoon (UK: , US: SPOON) is a utensil consisting of a shallow bowl (also known as a head), oval or round, at the end of a handle.
The Jian chawan, a Chinese tea bowl known as Tenmoku chawan in Japan, was the preferred tea bowl for the Japanese tea ceremony until the 16th century.
Wine service could include a separate wine for each course, or champagne may be the only wine after the sherry served with the soup.
In others, such as Japanese and Chinese, where bowls of food are more often raised to the mouth, little modification from the basic pair of chopsticks and a spoon has taken place.
Crudités from France are a blend of salads of raw vegetables and the serving has a minimum of three vegetables of striking colors.
Mai'a Iced Coffee Straws are designed to flavour a 250mL/ 8.5oz glass of cold milk, and are pitched to young adults as a healthier alternative to other iced coffee drinks.
It is also depicted in the watermark used as a security feature on several Khuzestanian monetary banknotes.
Fried Padrón peppers are typically served hot with a dusting of coarse salt, sometimes accompanied by chunks of bread, as tapas.
This method worked fine if the beer was served cold; when served warm the can would overflow when opened.
The Tiffany Yellow Diamond (128.54 carats (25.708 g)) is usually on display in the New York City flagship store.
"The Influence of Teacup Shape on the Cognitive Perception of Tea, and the Sustainability Value of the Aesthetic and Practical Design of a Teacup".
To make the puzzle more interesting, it was common to provide a number of additional holes along the tube, which must be closed off before the contents could be sucked.
Gravity then creates a siphon through the central column, causing the entire content of the cup to be emptied through the hole at the bottom of the stem.
See also The Classic of Tea Pictorial of Tea Ware bamboo stove References Tea Terms 2010 中英文茶術語 Best Kitchen Product Reviews
A tasse à café (French pronunciation: [tɑs‿a kafe], coffee cup) is a cup, generally of white porcelain and of around 120 ml (4 fl oz), in which coffee is served.
Another type of butter dish, a French butter dish, keeps butter fresh by using water to keep the butter away from the air, thereby keeping it fresh.
Fo Niemi, the Cagadocs' lawyer and the executive director for the Center for Research-Action on Race Relations (CRARR), had to actively discourage people from the Filipino community from protesting in front of the school board.
Coconuts were also referred to as the "Indian nut" or "nut of the sea", which Kathleen Kennedy prefers to take literally.
Beyaynetu (Amharic: በያይነቱ, romanized: bäyaynätu) is an Ethiopian/Eritrean dish, often enjoyed as a hearty meal.
They were historically attributed to the Phoenicians, but are today considered to have been made by a broader group of Levantine peoples.
The disintegration of highbrow and lowbrow foods has led to increased accessibility of various foods.
Unfamiliarity with finger bowls has led to many common faux pas, including drinking the water, eating the flower, or failing to move the doily with the bowl when shifting it off of the dessert plate.
A magic mug, also known as a heat changing mug, transforming mug, or disappearing mug is a mug that changes color when it is filled with a hot liquid.
Furthermore, many local traditions of what constitutes the proper care and display of the items on a Welsh dresser would come to assume an important role in the culture of North Wales in particular.
The metal kovsh began to appear around the 14th century, although it also continued to be carved out of wood and was frequently brightly painted in peasant motifs.
The first step in bottling beer is depalletising, where the empty bottles are removed from the original pallet packaging delivered from the manufacturer, so that individual bottles may be handled.
According to lore, Thomas Jefferson invented the device, which was known as a "dumbwaiter", for his daughter Susan.
"I broke the ttukbaegi and spilled the soup" (뚝배기 깨고 국 쏟았다) is an analogy to mean that one mistake will result in a loss many times.
are, in no particular order, International Paper, LBP Manufacturing, Java Jacket, and Labansat & Schulz Manufacturing.
Merry "helped promote the organization of the Indiana Glass Company" in Dunkirk in 1904, and he was elected president of the company.
For the period of 1870 to 1885, Bellaire's nickname was "Glass City" because of its numerous glass factories and the large amount of capital invested in them.
Such steins may be made out of stoneware, pewter, porcelain or even silver, wood or crystal glass; they may have open tops or hinged pewter lids with a thumb-lever.
'Grace' cups were passed round when a traditional grace (a prayer of thanksgiving) was said to give thanks for the food eaten.
A penny lick was a small glass for serving ice cream, used in London, England, and elsewhere in the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century.
Since the 19th century, dinner has generally been served in the evening, but other times ranging from late morning to late afternoon have been historically common.
Other containers for the host include the paten (a small plate) or a basin (for loaves of bread rather than wafers) used at the time of consecration and distribution at the main service of Holy Eucharist.
The clerk, also known as warden of the hanaper, was paid fees and other moneys for the sealing of charters, patents, writs, etc., and from which issued certain writs under the great seal.
The wooden parts that make up a barrel are called staves, the top and bottom are both called heads or headers, and the rings that hold the staves together are called hoops.
Ingredients Onions, ginger, salt, turmeric, panch puran (optional), rice flour, ground rice, chopped coriander (optional) and water.
The field ration eating device (FRED) is an Australian eating utensil and multi-tool that serves as a combination of a can opener, bottle opener, and spoon.
Windermere kettles are rapid boilers and can heat enough water to make a pot of tea in only a few seconds.
However, earthenware exhibited significant technical weaknesses for this application: the body was easily chipped, the glaze would craze over time and the underlying porous ceramic would absorb moisture and odours.
A very early example of a bridge-spouted vessel in Minoan pottery has been recovered at the ancient palace of Phaistos on Minoan Crete, dating to the Bronze Age.
Additionally, metal Sierra cups can become very hot very easily, which can burn the user when attempting to eat from it; burning one's lips on a Sierra cup while attempting to eat or drink was considered "standard practice" when they were in frequent use.
Formal functions in Europe can sometimes have very elaborate centrepieces, which can span the entire length of the table.
The first US patent for a coffee percolator was issued to James Nason of Franklin, Massachusetts, in 1865, U.S.
After Buck's death in 2010, a New York Times writer described the motto on the cup as having "welcome intimations of tenderness, succor, and humility".
Interpretation One of the women Surrealists, Oppenheim in this work combines the domesticity of the tea set (part of the traditionally feminine decorative arts) with the eroticism and animality of the fur covering.
Whilst this is happening, the corker vacuums the air out of the bottle to form a negative pressure headspace.
A spoon and chopstick rest is a piece of tableware on which a spoon and chopsticks can be placed without their used ends touching the table.
Diners could either dip food into their individual salt cellars or use a small salt spoon to sprinkle the seasoning over their food.
The tea- and coffeepots are small (one pint in a service for two, so called tête-à-tête, half a pint in a solitaire service for one), the cups and saucers are frequently also smaller than the ones in the regular sets.
At the center of the table is the secondary main course, such as galbi or bulgogi, and a shared pot of jjigae.
In the 1970s, the dish became so ubiquitous in UK venues offering evening entertainment that the locations became known to musicians and entertainers as the "chicken-in-a-basket circuit".
The term pony dates to the 19th century, and is due to the diminutive size, being used earlier for a pony glass, and similarly for a pony keg.
Multiple dishes were served for each stage, for example, multiple potages, multiple entrées, multiple roasts, and so on.
Another very rare group of specimens, attributed to the potter Andokides and his workshop, have figural decoration on the flat base of the foot.
The modern B&B plate is simply a smaller plate and has other uses, thus other names: side plate, quarter plate, cheese plate.
A jamonera (Spanish pronunciation: [xamoˈneɾa]), also known as a portajamones or jamonero, is a form of clamp fixed to a wooden stand, specifically designed to hold a leg of jamón serrano (Spanish cured ham) or jamón ibérico whilst it is sliced.
It was first described in a recipe from 1691 by the chef of the French king Louis XIV, using ingredients such as truffles, sweetbreads, and cream cheese.
Whirlpool At the end of the boil, solid particles in the hopped wort are separated out, usually in a vessel called a "whirlpool" or "settling tank".
History Unlike the more formal chanhap (찬합) enjoyed by the nobility, Joseon era peasants and soldiers would carry lunch in a simple woven bamboo or wood tumak (투막) box when expected to be outside the home during meal time.
Porsgrund Porcelain Factory (Porsgrunds Porselænsfabrik, abbreviated PP) is a porcelain flatware company located at Porsgrunn in Telemark county, Norway.
In private settings, this kind of disposable products has proven very popular with consumers who prefer easy and quick cleanup after parties, etc.
To make sungnyung, the unscorched part of rice is scooped and transferred into another serving bowl right after being served, and hot water or tea (usually mild-grain teas such as barley tea or corn tea) is poured into the dolsot while it is still blistering hot.
Although a Russian jackboot сапог (sapog) could be used for this purpose, bellows were manufactured specifically for use on samovars.
At a less formal dinner, not served from the kitchen, the dessert fork and spoon can be set above the plate, fork pointing right, spoon pointing left.
Preserving food in this manner allows people to keep summer vegetables throughout the winter months when gardens and crops are not producing.
The museum specialises in the collection, study and display of teaware, including many samples of Yixing teapots, from Jiangsu Province, China, as well as the world's oldest known extant teapot.
This form was developed based on older versions of the jia that which had hollow conical legs that opened to the lower bowl section of the vessel.
The cabaret services originated in France, where the tea drinking was not ritualized, and thus small-scale arrangements for one or two were appropriate.
Crocks are made from stoneware, which is a nonporous ceramic that is water-tight, even without glaze.
A bridge-spouted vessel is a particular design of ewer (jug or pitcher) originating in antiquity; there is typically a connecting element between the spout and filling aperture, and the spout is a completely independent aperture from the usually smaller central fill opening.
The thickness of the glass made the contents appear greater than they were, often disappointing the customer, and the glasses commonly broke or were stolen.
By 2007, it was mentioned in passing in a New York Times television review as "one of those endangered artifacts".
The modern dallah is a more typically practical vessel, and even automatic dallahs and Thermos dallahs are available to the modern coffee drinker.
Therefore, with the exception of the quadruple silverplate moustache cups made in the U.S., it is nowadays extremely difficult to find an authentic Victorian moustache cup bearing an American pottery mark.
In this case, a self-contained portable tap is required that allows beer to be served straight from the keg.
History The teacup and saucer originated in China at the time of the near-simultaneous introduction of tea and porcelain.
If a butter spreader is used, it is laid on top of the B&B plate, either vertically, horizontally, or diagonally.
A special dish for resting the teaspoons, a "spoon boat", was a part of the tea set in the 18th century.
Eating one meal away from home each week translates to 2 extra pounds each year or a daily increase of 134 calories and a decrease in diet quality by 2 points on the Healthy Eating Index.
Following a fire, the company’s foundry was moved to Santa Fe in 1976, and remained there until 1994 when it was moved to Espanola, and later moved abroad to Asia.
Thirdly, it has been argued that, unlike regular glasses and cups, in which hot liquids cool evenly, the Armudu ensures proportional cooling at the time of drinking allowing cooling of the tea in the top portion of the glass while keeping the bottom part hot.
A cocktail umbrella or paper parasol is a small umbrella made from paper, paperboard, and a toothpick.
The compulsory high recycled-content of these bottles makes them very dark and the lack of temper makes them chip easily when being opened.
Some similar tea glass holders can occasionally be seen in the West in tea houses and pubs; they are however usually of much simpler design (made of either stainless steel bent wire or even of some plastic material) than those seen in Russia (and in the former USSR).
In 1986, researchers in Florida discovered the 7500-year-old remains of ancient Native Americans and discovered small grooves between many of the molar teeth.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
It was chosen for the “Britain Can Make It” exhibition in London, which ran at the V&A for 14 weeks in the autumn of 1946.
Some ingenious designs were made including expanding or folding types (so as to take up less space).
Bazaars and food stalls in the Indian subcontinent traditionally served hot beverages, such as tea, in kuhlars, which suffused the beverage with an "earthy aroma" that was often considered appealing.
Instead the term cheese board might be used for a dish with largely cheese or some other descriptive title used for a board with a large variety of different cold foodstuffs.
Terminology Originally, the term referred to pies and other sweet delicacies served after a main meal, but now can refer to a light meal before a main meal or a snack, which may also be eaten at a stand-up bar known as zakusochnaya.
He likely intended this as a compliment to Sviatoslav; sources report that Kurya and his wife drank from the skull and prayed for a son as brave as the deceased Rus warlord.
Reception During its November 2015 launch, Pryme Vessyl was carried in Apple Stores across North America and had a launch partnership with Equinox.
It has been acknowledged that the kusztyk shares a visual similarity with the ancient Greek rhyton, however, it is unlikely that these vessels were employed during equivalent ritualistic occasions.
The shape of the canteen is unusual compared to other examples of 13th-century Islamic metalwork and is similar to the shape of ceramic pilgrim flasks, which are characterized by a wide vessel with two rounded handles along the sides of the spout.
The glass might be able to be used for drinks, but when used for food, it is referred to as a verrine, and indeed the dish itself can be named ″a verrine″.
Albanian-style meze platters typically include prosciutto ham, salami, and brined cheese, accompanied with roasted bell peppers (capsicum) or green olives marinated in olive oil with garlic.
These were decorated with brightly coloured enamel and motifs that included musical instruments or military trophies.
Tiara Tiara Exclusives, a multi-level marketing company owned by Lancaster Colony, began on July 1, 1970.
See also Hoosier cabinet Hutch (furniture) Sideboard References External links The Irish Dresser Project
In the early Catholic Church, Holy Communion was not kept in churches for fear of sacrilege or desecration; the religion was still largely illegal and subject to frequent persecutions.
A course may include many different dishes served at the same time, as in Service à la française (lit.
In Korean cuisine, various hot rice dishes such as bibimbap or gulbap (oyster rice) as well as plain white rice can be prepared and served in dolsot.
South Korean girl group Red Velvet released their debut Japanese EP titled #Cookie Jar in 2017, along with its lead single of the same name.
Wine can also be fermented in large wooden tanks, which—when open to the atmosphere—are called "open-tops".
A dallah (Arabic: دَلَّة), also known as bakraj (Arabic: بَكْرَج), is a traditional Arabic coffee pot used for centuries to brew and serve qahwa, a spicy, bitter coffee traditionally served during feasts like Eid al-Fitr and made through a multi-step ritual.
After opening the store in the cosmopolitan area of Chiado, in Lisbon in 1887, with José and his brother Narciso, they develop its activity in the capital of the kingdom benefiting from the proximity of the court.
Vessyl pre-order backer disappointment In October 2015, the company announced that refunds would be issued to those who opted not to wait out production delays of Vessyl.
A third handle was added, but the smith presented the vessel to Tuathal by holding the cup by two handles and pointing the third towards himself.
Some newer formulations use a Thermite-like reaction between a more reactive metal powder such as aluminum or magnesium, with a less reactive metal oxide such as iron oxide or silicon dioxide.
Single-serve coffee containers can both reduce the time needed to brew coffee and simplify the brewing process by eliminating the need to measure out portions, flavorings, and additives from large bulk containers.
Meals served à la française can include from one to five courses, depending on the way the stages of the meal are grouped together.
This measure had the most effect in Japan as many of its disposable chopsticks are imported from China, which account for over 90% of the Japanese market.
A flight may include several beers (say, a pilsner, an IPA and a stout) from one brewery, or the same style but from several breweries, or a combination of both.
The term is a word of Persian origin meaning the tablecloth which is spread on the ground, floor, or table as a sanitary surface for food.
The fish were substitutions or counterparts to the roasts served on meat days, corresponding to their position in the meal but not their cooking method.
In Ethiopia they use a slightly different variation, theirs having a separate spout lower on the pot for pouring out the coffee.
Though designed for use as a cup and originally designed for collecting water from streams, its handle and wide top allows it to also be used as a ladle, bowl, or cookware.
It typically consists of white potatoes that have been cut into two-centimeter-wide (3⁄4-inch) cubes, then fried in oil and served hot with a spicy "brava" sauce.
In this instance, a cup and spoon has grown hair, turning objects from which one should derive relaxation and pleasure into something aggressive, unpleasant and faintly disgusting.
Beakers are often graduated, that is, marked on the side with lines indicating the volume contained.
A designer noted for his innovative take on the toast rack was Christopher Dresser (1834–1904), who studied at the Glasgow Government School of Design and contributed to the development of modern design.
are the official makers of the newly redesigned Summoner's Cup, which was first awarded to DRX after their 3-2 victory over T1.
References External links "Nancy Newhall, Tioga Mine, California" – a photograph of Nancy Newhall with a Sierra Club cup hooked in her belt, by Ansel Adams
At the end of the meal, the trencher could be eaten with sauce, but could also be given as alms to the poor.
About fifty cups or, more often, fragments have survived, and there are only a few in near-complete condition.
However, these were not widely known at the time of Layard's 1849 discoveries in Nimrud, and the specific connection to the Phoenician bowls was only made in 1876 following the discovery of the Bernardini Tomb.
The term salva was also applied to the dish or tray on which the food or drink was presented after the tasting process.
By 1588, reference is documented in England to the "trencher salt"; by the early 18th century, these had mostly supplanted large salts.
The entrée in the "Classical Order" of table service The stages of the meal underwent several significant changes between the mid-16th and mid-17th century.
Sinosphere China When eating rice from a bowl, it is normal to hold the rice bowl up to one's mouth and use chopsticks to push or shovel the rice directly into the mouth.
The fragment shows a pattern based on circles, that is very similar to the glass diatreta, suggesting that the same style may have been used in silver plate, though which came first is unknown.
The art samovars of Borujerd are often displayed in Iranian and Western museums as illustrations of Iranian art and handicraft.
A medieval table in a wealthy household might be covered in a cloth that was used as a common napkin rather than having a decorative purpose.
Large "ceremonial" or feasting cups, sometimes called grace cups or "welcome cups", and drinking horns, including ivory, with metal mounts, were important prestige pieces, typically too large to drink from all evening, so passed around or drunk from once.
History The earliest example in England is the Exeter puzzle jug—an example of medieval pottery in Britain.
By the middle of the 18th century, china cabinets were typically more elaborate; later cabinets had especially elaborate doors and were lighter weight.
History Loving cups found in several Christian denominations that practice the lovefeast, including the Schwarzenau Brethren, Moravians, and Methodists.
The pieces are mostly cast as a single piece, and the solid construction is efficient at retaining heat.
For instance, a 250 mL beaker might be marked with lines to indicate 50, 100, 150, 200, and 250 mL of volume.
As the drip coffee, invented in France in the 18th century, gained popularity, the need for tall cups disappeared, so Sèvres porcelain pioneered shorter cups.
Nevertheless, onggi types share similarities: biodegradability, porosity, resistance to rot, and firmness or "vertebration".
A jue (Chinese: 爵; Wade–Giles: chüeh) is a type of ancient Chinese ritual bronze vessel used to serve warm wine during ancestor-worship ceremonies.
In the United States, the silent service code is a way for a diner to communicate to waitstaff during a meal to indicate whether the diner is finished with their plate.
It has been criticized as being decadent, humiliating, degrading, cruel, antiquated, objectifying, and sexist.
Later, the object was mounted in silver, forming a pedestal where the name of the owner, the year, and the place of the manufacturer was written.
Padrón pepper, also called Herbón pepper, is a landrace variety of pepper (Capsicum annuum) from the municipality of Padrón in northwestern Spain (mainly in the valley of the parish of Herbón).
See also Bridge-spouted vessel Dribble glass Pythagorean cup References External links A puzzle jug Martin Homer's Puzzle Jugs
It has been in operation since 1923 and specializes in the production of high-quality glass accessories or liquid vessels such as jugs, vases, carafes, decanters and chalices as well as stemware and tumblers for serving spirits.
Egg cups can be made from a variety of materials, including bakelite, glass, plastic, porcelain, pottery, various metals, wood, or a combination of two materials, such as ceramic and wood.
The capsules have an outer ring or rim that stays dry during use, allowing for removal and disposal after use without getting the user's hands wet or sticky.
Bread-and-butter plate (B&B plate) is a small, about 6 inches in diameter, plate that holds bread and butter for an individual table setting.
The heyday of the cabinet cup was the second half of the 18th century and the first decades of the 19th century; they worked well in the showy Empire style then in fashion.
The typical "picnic tap" uses a hand pump to push air into the keg; this will cause the beer to spoil faster but is perfectly acceptable if the entire keg will be consumed in a short time.
Variations Spinach dip in a bread bowl originated as a promotional appetizer for supermarkets ahead of the 1985 Super Bowl.
Another British company, Lifeventure, sells titanium and plastic versions using the name "Forkspoon".
Because it is a wet process, the tea draining tray is necessary to keep the process tidy and elegant.
The glass was usually made with a thick glass base and a shallow depression on top in which the ice cream was placed.
Thompson, "our object was to get nothing but the best, for we want our State Set to be as near perfect as possible ...
In the "Classical Order" of service à la française, the main course generally follows the entrée (lit.
With stores in Lisbon and Cascais, the house stands out in the manufacture of custom-made and personalized pieces, namely engagement rings, jewelry, cutlery, tableware, as well as maintenance and restoration.
By this stage a shell was cheaper than a bowl made of silver, which has contributed to a higher survival rate for coconut cups than those in precious metal, as they had a lower recycling value, and were less likely to be melted down.
If there are more courses, additional flatware is brought to the table at the time the course is served.
The jug was found in Manhyia Palace in Kumasi in 1895, but when and how it arrived in West Africa is not known.
Trays range in cost from inexpensive molded pulp trays which are disposable and inexpensive melamine trays used in cafeterias, to mid-priced wooden trays used in a home, to expensive silver trays used in luxury hotels.
It is, however, almost certain that the devices under discussion were wheeled serving trays similar to those introduced by Thomas Jefferson to the United States from France, where they were known as étagères.
The idea behind a thali is to offer different flavours of sweet, salt, bitter, sour, astringent and spicy on one single plate (technically the last two are actually forms of chemesthesis rather than true flavours).
Records dating to the 18th century attest to this as well as other variations such as 밥고리, and 밥동고리.
Methers can be found in a number of private collections and museums, sometimes decorated and once hereditary treasures of famous Celtic families.
Taiwan Railway Bento is a well known bento dish manufactured and distributed by the Taiwan Railway Corporation at major railway stations and in train cars.
On tramways of the horse and early electric age, toastrack cars – usually with roofs and often reversible seats – were common in warm climates or for summer use.
Cooking in earthenware containers has always been common in most cultures, but the idea of casserole cooking as a one-dish meal became popular in the United States in the twentieth century, especially in the 1950s when new forms of lightweight metal and glass cookware appeared on the market.
Here, ʾätkəlt refers to "plants" or "vegetables", and yetsom signifies "fasting", denoting the period when members of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church abstain from consuming meat and dairy products for several weeks.
Kitchen staff The kitchen staff is responsible for preparing the food according to service standards and work procedures.
In the United States and Australia there are formal tablesetting competitions and exhibitions that date back to the 1930s and 1940s.
Some growler caps are equipped with valves to allow replacement of carbon dioxide lost while racking.
In Provence, the dish may be made with vegetables alone, but also with lamb, fish, or egg added to vegetables.
Responsible for the image of Our Lady of Fátima, all Portuguese crown jewels since the 19th century and major works, it is known for luxury jewelry, particularly in gold and diamond.
There are a number of companies that manufacture coffee sleeves; the top four companies by volume of coffee sleeves sold in the U.S.
Development Toulouse-Lautrec's friendship with singer and nightclub owner Aristide Bruant is thought to have influenced his development of The Hangover.
Most of Smidt van Gelder's painting were recovered after the war, but six including The Oyster Meal were not found.
On the left, a knight emerges from a lean-to whose roof is covered in dishes of pie and pastry, with an open mouth, waiting for a roasted pigeon to fly in (the pigeon was accidentally removed during restoration work).
During the defence of Paris on 30 March 1814, marshal Bon-Adrien Jeannot de Moncey had used it as his command post.
See also List of paintings by Pieter de Hooch References External links Man, vrouw en kind op een binnenplaats, in het verschiet de toren van de Nieuwe Kerk van Delft in the RKD
Just behind him in the background is the servant Arent Jacobsz Koets, and below him, seated, is Lieutenant Frederik Coning.
"The man with his back to the table is Daniel Jenckes." Two sailors are dancing, possibly "Nicholas Power [giving] a dancing lesson to young Godfrey Malbone," while others are sleeping, smoking pipes, or playing cards.
The quality of figures and details is uneven; the right hand of St Peter appears to be replaced by a left hand.
The original references are: In his notes to the Augustan History, Magie notes that "Nero did this also (Suetonius, Nero, xxxi), and a similar ceiling in the house of Trimalchio is described in Petronius, Sat., lx." (Satyricon).
Chez le Père Lathuille (At the Père Lathuille Restaurant) is an 1879 oil-on-canvas painting by Édouard Manet, now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts Tournai.
The painting stands out for its large color surfaces and for the female figures mother and daughter, symbolizing the quest for innocence, while exuding a sense of sensuality absent from the corresponding women depicted in the works of other Cypriot artists of that period.
The expansive theatrical gestures seen in the London version have, in the Milan version, become understated and natural, the shadows are darkened, and the colours muted although still saturated.
Dendrochronological studies by Peter Klein have radically altered the provenance of some paintings, for instance the Escorial Crowning with Thorns panel can only have been painted after 1525 and so is not a Bosch original.
There are also parallels in European art, such as Jan Steen's 1660 painting The Prayer Before the Meal.
The room and the hall visible in the right rear display pictures which are also related to the three senses: The Annunciation and Minerva's Visit to Parnassus (hearing), The Dentist (touch), and The Punishment of Rich Epulon and The Wedding at Cana (taste).
In culture The portrait might have served as an inspiration for Secretary at West German Radio, Cologne.
Exhibitions The Last Supper series was first shown in the exhibition Andy Warhol – Il Cenacolo at the Palazzo delle Stelline in Milan from January to March 1987.
Analysis In the Arbour was painted by Gierymski in 1882 after his stay in Rome and is considered to be the artist's approach to Impressionism.
Interior, after Dinner, which takes place later in the night, is a companion piece to The Dinner (Le Dîner) which shows the same event earlier in the evening.
By 1896, Vuillard and Lautrec both began making visits to the Natansons' La Grangette estate in Valvins.
It is one of the most beautiful pieces that this insurrectionist art by Independent artists has produced." Alternatively, Le Figaro published Albert Wolff's comment on March 2, 1882: "If he had learned to draw, Renoir would have a very pretty picture..." In popular culture Actor Edward G.
History Its history is unknown before 18 August 1762, when it was sold at the Wirman auction in Amsterdam.
Tamayo painted two mural for Sanborns to decorate the building acquired by the company in 1954, located on the Calle José María Lafragua at the corner of Paseo de la Reforma in central Mexico City.
His inventory called it a "painting with portraits of the jesters of the dukes of Ferrara", a satirical caricature subject which can only have originated as a direct commission from Ercole II d'Este, himself named after Hercules, hence the painting's name.
Two pipers play the pijpzak, an unbreeched boy in the foreground licks a plate, a wealthy man at the far right is talking to a Franciscan friar, a dog emerges from under the table to snatch pieces of bread on the bench.
With her left hand this girl supports a little child who stands on a chair, watching the parrot being fed.
The painting would have been thematically antithetical to the still life works depicting a cornucopia of a contemporary rich man's kitchen.
At the same point in his career (1604), he had accepted 300 scudi for a much simpler Crucifixion (Museo del Prado, Madrid).
The whole scene appears to be reflected in the mirror behind the bar, creating a complex web of viewpoints.
He painted several works with this title, a Dutch proverb – this is the earliest of them, whilst another is now in Valenciennes.
References External links Media related to Fra et romersk osteria at Wikimedia Commons Zoomable version Archived 2017-08-08 at the Wayback Machine
An article in The Guardian the same day said the work "would be expected to fetch £13.4m at auction".
It is highlighted during the illuminations of the Place des Terreaux during the Festival of Lights in 2014.
Refusal of other works by young painters led eventually to the creation of the Salon des Refusés in 1863.
Later that year, Paul Gauguin (1848–1903) came to stay with her family, sharing his approach and techniques.
Location of the restaurant The scene was supposedly inspired by a diner (since demolished) in Greenwich Village, Hopper's neighborhood in Manhattan.
Painting The painting is one in a series of six (or perhaps twelve) works, five of which are still extant, that depict different times of the year.
Mellon and Heinrich von Thyssen-Bornemisza's Schloss Rohoncz before being purchased by them in 1984.
The painting was sold again by American collector Frederick Koch at Christie's in London in June 1993 for £1,500,000.
The foreground shows us the effect of the fountain, with elderly women, frail and worn, some even unable to walk, being led to the pool.
See also List of paintings by Johannes Vermeer Notes Further reading Wieseman, Marjorie E.; Franits, Wayne; Chapman, H.
They undress, get into the healing water, and appear rejuvenated on the right side of the pool, where a gallant young man shows them into a tent.
The painting is one in a select group of canvases where Freud engages in a dialogue with past masters, this work being a variation on a theme of the work L'Après-midi à Naples ('Afternoon in Naples'; circa 1875) by the French Post-Impressionist painter Paul Cézanne.
Portrait of Vincent Nubiola (Catalan: Retrat de Vicenç Nubiola) is an oil painting by Spanish artist Joan Miró.
Thus, no expression, no feeling, no composition." He spoke of "types without character, scenes devoid of all interest" and said disparagingly (yet insightfully from the point of view of modern criticism) that "Manet had made the portrait of a Balcony and a Luncheon".
In 1933 there were several pictures of the year at Paris; The Sphere newspaper (1933) included Miss Hermione and Mrs Claude Chauvin, both by Alfred Jonniaux, Le Rat by M.
Description Indias de Oaxaca portrays two young Mexican indigenous women from Oaxaca playfully disputing over a single piece of tortilla, itself a staple of Mesoamerican and Mexican cuisine.
Towards the right, Van Gogh indicated a lighted shop and some branches of the trees surrounding the place, but he omitted the remainders of the Roman monuments just beside this little shop.
Still Life of Fruit, Dead Birds, and a Monkey (Dutch: Stilleven van vruchten in en voor een rieten mand, dode vogels en een aap) is a painting by the Dutch artist Clara Peeters, c.
The poses of the three foreground figures closely correspond to those of the seated figures which, in the ancient reliefs and in the Renaissance engraving, attend the mythological scene.
Arles: View from the Wheat Fields (also known as Wheat Field with Sheaves and Arles in the Background) was painted by Vincent van Gogh in June 1888, among a number of paintings he made of wheat fields that summer.
A dog sleeps beneath the chair of one of the musicians, adding a layer of domesticity and familiarity.
The Off the Wall reproductions of the Walters' paintings are done on weather-resistant vinyl and include a description of the painting and a QR code for smart phones.
The Museum of the Academy of Fine Arts was dissolved in 1922 and The King Drinks and most of its other works were moved to the Hermitage Museum.
Interior, after Dinner (French: Intérieur, Après dîner) is an oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Claude Monet (1840–1926) created during the winter of 1868–1869, a productive time for the painter.
From the sixteenth to the eighteenth century, the picture was preserved in the Ducal Palace, Venice, and belongs now to the Earl of Yarborough.
"Jason Kelce shirtless celebration: Learn more about 'Art But Make It Sports' X account behind viral tweet".
One of Sher-Gil's tutors had compared her with Gustave Courbet, to which she responded to her cousin and later husband Victor, in a letter dated February 1933, that "I will be myself".
The barren rock on the left half symbolizes the arduous age of women, whilst the dense green forest on the right acts as a metaphor for youth.
If so, it would imply that the whole painting, foreground and background, is set in Christ's time and would perhaps lend weight to the argument that the maid in the foreground is Martha.
But for my part, I find so tremendously much in Israëls, for instance, that I'm not particularly curious about or eager for something different or newer.
They dine at wooden tables set between three imposing cannons, the breech-loading of which is visible.
Painting Clara Peeters specialised in still lifes with beautiful objects, delicious fruits and expensive food.
Together with Kalicki, he established the details of the conservation interventions and confirmed that it was a painting stolen from the National Museum, Warsaw.
She dines on a hamburger and Coca-Cola, while all the other women are seen with a bread roll and glass of water.
Boy with a Basket of Fruit is an oil on canvas painting generally ascribed to Italian Baroque master Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio, created c.
After Margot's death, Aline Charigot began sitting for Renoir, becoming his wife just several years later.
Paul & the Broken Bones said that the title of his band's new album, Young Sick Camellia, is an homage to Caravaggio's Young Sick Bacchus (camellias being the state flower of the band's home state, Alabama).
Rossetti wrote about Proserpine, She is represented in a gloomy corridor of her palace, with the fatal fruit in her hand.
Warhol would state that “A Coke is a Coke, and no amount of money can get you a better Coke.”, alluding to the idea of economic and political equality.
Provenance Indias de Oaxaca originally belonged to Colombian painter and sculptor Dionisio Cortés Mesa, himself an alumnus of Felipe Santiago Gutiérrez, and was inherited by family members of the artist across multiple generations.
Pablo Picasso's paintings of massive figures from 1906 were directly influenced by Gauguin's sculpture, painting and his writing as well.
Both pieces were found wanting by art critics of the day; by this time a common criticism of Manet was that his goal was to "attract attention at any price".
The man is seen turning toward the onlooker with an angry expression, whereas the woman at his right is looking with a smiling one, and the (presumably slightly older) other woman looks amused in the same direction.
Second version Tintoretto painted another version for the ceiling of the Upper Hall of the Scuola Grande di San Rocco.
Monet portrayed Courbet in the painting, as well as his dear friend Bazille, whom he depended on heavily and depicted four times in the original composition of the painting (as visible in the Moscow version), before it was cut up.
There is a Capuchin Monkey from South America, hidden to the left, who bites into an apple to symbolize the sin about to be committed by Adam and Eve.
It should be mentioned here that she sometimes places her many faceted talent at the service of the struggle for human rights." See also Last Supper in Christian art References External links The First Supper on Susan Dorothea White's official website
But here too, the sign of time, of transience, is equally present; the fruits offered as gifts (and in this sense the young man himself) are transient, destined to end, like the yellowing leaf that bends down outside the basket.
Usually Bacchus was processing in a chariot drawn by leopards, with a retinue of satyrs and revellers, including his guardian Silenus.
The painting is notable for being the first full color lithograph of a Grandma Moses painting that could be ordered for framing.
Influence The Triumph of Bacchus received a number of rather grand and elaborate idealized treatments in Renaissance art, of which Titian's Bacchus and Ariadne, then in the Spanish royal collection, was an imaginative variant.
Rossetti painted the work at a time when his mental health was precarious and his love for Jane Morris was obsessive.
La Pluie de roses D'Héliogabale is a separate yet similar painting, recorded to have been displayed at the 1880 Paris Salon, done by an artist under the name A.
Tintoretto's Last Supper makes use of Mannerist devices in its complex and radically asymmetrical composition.
In its dynamism and emphasis on the quotidian—the setting is similar to a Venetian inn—the painting points the way to the Baroque.
The Vienna Diptych or the Fall and Redemption of Man is a religious diptych by the Flemish artist Hugo van der Goes depicting the fall of man on the left panel and the lamentation of Christ on the right panel.
Camille Doncieux has been positively identified in the gray gown, appearing a year before she and Monet were to be married.
He completed around 50 works featuring prostitution (including the Elles series, 1896), most of which were not widely known until after his death.
The Feast in the House of Simon the Pharisee is a c.1656 oil on canvas painting by Philippe de Champaigne, now in the Fine Arts Museum of Nantes.
The Old Folks Sing, the Young Folks Chirp (Dutch: Zoals de ouden zongen, piepen de jongen) is a 1638–1640 oil-on-canvas painting by the Flemish artist Jacob Jordaens, now in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts Antwerp.
The viewer's eye is guided around the painting and into the center by the presence of curving black lines that mimic the oval shape of the canvas, although the composition remains chiefly architectural.
Aertsen made a name for himself during the 1550s painting scenes from everyday life in a naturalistic manner.
It was not catalogued in Portinari's belongings when he died in 1501, and is thought to have been moved from Bruges to Florence between 1510 and 1520.
The portrait features Alfred Sisley (1839–1899) and his then long-term partner Marie-Louise Adélaïde-Eugénie Lescouezec, who would later become his wife.
In 1880, after Santiago Gutierrez held an exhibit on Mexican art in Bogotá, art critic Ellis de Mansfield highlighted Indias de Oaxaca as an exemplary work of the realist movement and honored Felipe Santiago Gutierrez as the best artist of his time.
It is often confused for the better known Coca-Cola (3), despite the two paintings being entirely different.
In March 2014, Supper at Emmaus was loaned to Hong Kong's The Asia Society for an exhibition called "Light and Shadows – Caravaggio • The Italian Baroque Master".
The men are in a dark, wood-panelled Victorian parlour with a quality of light suggesting late afternoon.
It was later acquired by the art collector Abraham Bredius, who gave it to the Museum Bredius in 1925.
On the right side, behind a figure drawing water from the well, there is a tavern with genre figures depicting a merry company eating oysters and mussels.
The name Epulone has been attached in Italy to the rich man, but also generically refers to a feaster (with pejorative gluttonous suggestion).
Young Women in Black or Young Girls in Black (French - Jeunes Filles en noir) is an 1880–1882 painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, which since 1948 has been in the Pushkin Museum in Moscow..
See also List of paintings by Bartholomeus van der Helst References Judith van Gent, Bartholomeus van der Helst (ca.
The picture depicts an al fresco meal by a deer hunting party and is an early example of the Realism genre of which Courbet was a pioneer.
Eighteen copies were made, of which five were by Brueghel's son Pieter Brueghel the Younger or his studio.
He chooses rather a comic illustration of the spiritual emptiness believed to derive from gluttony and sloth, two of the seven deadly sins.
Rejected by the Salon jury of 1863, Manet seized the opportunity to exhibit this and two other paintings in the 1863 Salon des Refusés, where the painting sparked public notoriety and controversy.
Ambroise Vollard, En écoutant Cézanne, Degas, Renoir, Paris, Grasset, 1938; réédition, Paris, Grasset, 1994.
Greenwood has also included a self-portrait at the right showing himself vomiting in the doorway while John Janckes is holding a candle.
Philippe Ledoux, Vocation Précoce by Jane Chaueur-Ozeel, and La Convalescence by Madeleine Weill-Lestienne.
Painting materials The pigment analysis done by Hermann Kühn shows Vermeer's use of the expensive natural ultramarine in the tablecloth, lead-tin-yellow in the oranges on the table and madder lake and vermilion in the skirt of the woman.
The central panel shows the Last Supper, with the wings showing Abram meeting Melchizedek and the fall of the manna.
Artistically, the work is highly regarded as an example of mastery of the challenges of white-on-white painting and as one of Rockwell's most famous works.
The tea service is gilded blue-and-white porcelain from Canton (modern day Guangzhou) in Qing dynasty China; in the 19th century, Canton was renowned for its exports to the Western world, as the port city was one of the centers of the Old China Trade.
It can be interpreted as a metaphor for Valadon's relationship with a younger man, as if it was the forbidden fruit.
Story One of these paintings was stolen with 4 other paintings in 2007, before being found in Marseilles in 2008.
Her highlighted cheeks as well as prominent wrinkles heighten the effect of sadness and helplessness, which emanates directly from her character.
Green Coca-Cola Bottles is a 1962 painting by American pop artist Andy Warhol that depicts one hundred and twelve almost identical Coca-Cola bottles.
Vermeer Studies: [Proceedings of the Symposia "New Vermer Studies" Held in 1995 in Washington, and in 1996 in The Hague].
The First Supper (1988) is a work of art by Susan Dorothea White, based on Leonardo da Vinci's 1490s painting The Last Supper.
He made do with the garden at Ancher's old apartment and worked from photographs and from life when he got the chance.
This depiction of the last meal that Jesus Christ took with his disciples was painted in 1624-25 for the Benedictine monastery at Brugora (Brianza).
The painting depicts Honorius feeding birds which are on the rug in front of him; the dark colours of the rug and his clothes define a space.
I have no doubt of an inheritance of religious feeling, and for this I am glad, but I have also decided and I hope an intelligent religious faith not due to inheritance but my own conviction.
London version The painting inevitably invites comparison with an earlier version (1601) of the same subject located in the National Gallery in London.
On the table with the white tablecloth, the objects placed closest to the table and that appear to be the least in motion are a glass of wine, two grapes, a pear, a glass bottle with water pouring out, and what appears to be a fig leaf.
It depicts a drunken couple so inebriated that they are completely unaware of the intruders skulking in the background.
However, Jordaens' emphasis is on morality: the painting is an allegory criticising the sins of pride and vanity, a theme typical of Netherlandish painting dating back to Pieter Bruegel and Hieronymus Bosch.
History and description It was inspired by a real-life event that took place while Haydon was himself imprisoned at the King's Bench Prison in Southwark for debt.
It has since been auctioned again at Sotheby's (December 11, 1991) and for 103,250 pounds at Christie's (April 24, 2009).
OCLC 1010226932.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Livin, Séverine (1 October 2001).
Description The pair of paintings are unique in including copies of their own works by a group of masters of the Antwerp school.
According to Jack Cowart, "...The scale of Lichtenstein's [Cubist still life] work is antithetical to the primarily intimate and more closely related nature of real Cubism." See also 1975 in art Notes External links Lichtenstein Foundation website
Henry IV Seizing the Opportunity to Conclude Peace is a c.1628 oil on canvas painting by Peter Paul Rubens, now in the Siegerlandmuseum.
It was looted by the Nazis in Germany-occupied Poland during World War II, and recovered only in 2011.
In comparison to earlier paintings by Braque, especially those of Analytical Cubism, it contains Surrealist inspired aspects, such as a more colorful palette, and a more representational rendering of the objects.
List See also Life of Christ Museum Life of Jesus Bibliography Baccheschi, Edi (1977), L'opera completa di Giotto (in Italian), Milan: Rizzoli [ISBN unspecified] AA.VV.
Still Life with Pussy-Willows was first exhibited in 1965 at the Spring Exhibition of Leningrad artists in the Leningrad Union of Artists.
Street Singer is one of a series of single-figure compositions that Manet painted during the 1860s in which he depicted contemporary "types" at life size, upsetting the convention that such humble genre subjects be painted at a small scale.
Occasio is personified as the blonde nude, with Peace personified as a woman holding a fruit basket and Saturn or Time pushing her forward towards Minerva and the laurel-wreathed hero with the head of Medusa on his shield.
There are four clusters of grapes, black, red, golden, and white; the red cluster on the right shows several mummied fruit, while the two clusters on the left each show an overripe berry.
This cubist still life depicts apples, pears, a lemon and perhaps a banana in and around a fruit bowl on a table.
The composition shows a younger man gesturing with his right hand to reinforce the story coming from his half-open lips, and an older man listening attentively while holding his cup up to a woman so she can refill it with wine.
Several examples use Christ, Martha and Mary as the background scene, including The Four Elements: Fire, by Beuckelaer (1570), also in the National Gallery.
The painting depicts a rich man after completion of his meal, with empty plates, surrounded by servants, while in the background, is the beggar Lazarus.
About the painting, Magritte said: At least it hides the face partly well, so you have the apparent face, the apple, hiding the visible but hidden, the face of the person.
From 1901 to 1908, Luigi Cavenaghi first completed a careful study of the structure of the painting, then began cleaning it.
A Woman Drinking with Two Men is a 1658 painting by Pieter de Hooch, an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is part of the collection of the National Gallery, London.
Esther lowers her arms apprehensively as she finishes her speech, the king's lips are pursed in anger, and Haman's pose reveals a sense of doom.
Restoration By 2007, due to the weight of the canvas itself, creases were forming in the painting and it was getting unstuck from its frame.
He gained notoriety for commenting on social issues in his works and painting subject matter that was considered to be too vulgar to be painted, like the life of the peasants, the working conditions of the poor, and prostitution.
On the left, there is the very luminous Bacchus figure, his dominant but relaxed pose somewhat reminiscent of that of Christ in many Last Judgement scenes, who is often shown seated and naked to the waist.
At the World's Fair of 1889 in Paris, he received the Large Gold Medal for his paintings Death of Ivan the Terrible, The Judgement of Paris, and Demon and Tamara.
The open half-door of a passage with tiled floor beyond looks on the street; the ground before a house opposite is illumined by sunshine.
Attribution Roberto Longhi was the first to study the group, only four of which were then known; the Last Judgement and Crucifixion were rediscovered later.
In the conversations of circle, a renaissance of Finnish spiritual life starting from the north was sought, after Gallen-Kallela, new strength to replace the decadent decadence.
Since around 1500 Dürer had an increased interest in animals and plants, of which he made many drawings and watercolors.
The details allow Ochtervelt to show his mastery of the effects of light falling on pewter, glass, fur and textiles.
Despite the modern title the woman is in fact a general servant or maid rather than a cook – the precious silver plate shows the work to be set in a patrician palace kitchen, where at that date the cooks were always male.
The work depicts an ameya, a candy maker practicing the art of Amezaiku; Blum himself described the ameya's work as being akin to glassblowing.
Art detective Arthur Brand told a reporter that the person in custody probably did not know the location of the works because "stolen artwork was often moved around quickly by criminal gangs".
Gierymski's work can be compared to contemporary French impressionists, even though he had not yet been to Paris and there was no evidence that he had seen their work.
Painting The painting exemplifies much of Cassatt's unique impressionist style; much emphasis is placed on the subject's stark outline, and Mrs.
In front of the bakery, two young men and two young women are playing an agility game where it involves throwing up old earthenware cooking pots and catching them.
See also List of paintings by Édouard Manet 1879 in art References https://mba.tournai.be/collections/edouard-manet-chez-le-pere-lathuille
A critic for the New York Times praised the work's use of multiple subjects in varied dress, and described it as being "admirably painted".
It may also depict a Chamber of Rhetoric meeting, similar to several paintings by Steen or one attributed to Hendrik Gerritsz Pot, which showed a dispute among the "poets of Bacchus".
The scene is a reference to Genesis 2:8–14 and hosts a variety of animals, presumably 100, from diverse ecosystems.
The commission was completed entirely in Urbino and efforts were made to supply Barocci with extensive information about the contextual chapel, which was frescoed by Cherubino Alberti with a Triumph of the Holy Cross.
Description Afternoon Tea has been lauded as one of Miller's best paintings, "a confident, mature work and an absolute knockout in coloristic power." He applied vibrant colors like bright reds, greens, and purples with artistic license, driven by decorative concerns rather than objective truth.
Dalí took inspiration from Dutch painter Floris van Schooten and his painting Table with Food for his own painting Nature Morte Vivante.
In addition, the kitchen is kept in neat order; a sharp contrast to the portrayals of domestic servants in other paintings of the time.
1670, now Cleveland, illustrated at left) Wayne Franits says: At first glance, the Musical Company in an Interior appears to be an elegant gathering of well-heeled youths [and women and a servant]...
The shadow on the table near his crotch area, his leg, and the nutcracker were all argued to represent a phallus.
Inherited traits were viewed by the Dutch people at the time as being a two-sided coin, in that a child would inherit genetic traits from their parents, but would also learn to emulate the behaviors that they witnessed.
Some figures have a remote detachment from emotion, typical of early High Renaissance style, and exemplified by the style of Piero della Francesca.
Together with its slightly wider pendant The Four Elements, or Winter (114 x 188 cm, or 45 x 74 in), it is today in the Musée de l'Œuvre Notre-Dame.
The reverse side of the right panel bears traces of a coat of arms, consisting of a shield with a black eagle and two supporters, of which only the feet survived.
The cup and the bunches of grapes next to him, and the vineyard in the background, suggest that Noah is drunk.
Trusler sees a further example of Hogarth's serpentine line in the twisted tablecloth and a hint of it in the knife blade.
Like the other Black Paintings, it was transferred to canvas in 1874–1878 under the supervision of Salvador Martínez Cubells, a curator at the Museo del Prado, Madrid.
… If a peasant painting smells of bacon, smoke, potato steam–fine–that’s not unhealthy–if a stable smells of manure–very well, that’s what a stable’s for–if the field has an odour of ripe wheat or potatoes or of guano and manure–that’s really healthy … But a peasant painting mustn’t become perfumed.
It is among the earliest of several paintings of bread by Dalí; a later example is Basket of Bread (1945).
Background and development Paul Cézanne Picasso and Braque's main source of inspiration when developing Cubism came from the still-life paintings of the Impressionist artist Paul Cézanne (1839–1906).
The various meats, including sausages, beef, fish, fowl and pork, are arranged on wooden tables, using baskets, pots and plates.
A huge yellow lantern lights the terrace, the façade, the pavement, and even projects light over the cobblestones of the street, which takes on a violet-pink tinge.
Analysis The painting was made by Lucia Nicolaidou-Vasiliou, the first woman from Cyprus to study painting abroad, particularly in France.
Exhibition Chardin first exhibited the painting along with five other works at the Salon of 1739 as La Ratisseuse de Navets (Woman scraping Turnips).
Cabaret Scene is an oil on canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dalí, executed in 1922.
It is highly likely that The Banquet of Cleopatra, together with the painting from the Kassel Museum, belonged to a certain Giacomo Antonio Carenna—both works are mentioned in his will of 9 March 1669 as paintings from the series The History of Cleopatra.
A Documentary History of Art, Volume 2: Michelangelo and the Mannerists, The Baroque and the Eighteenth Century, Princeton University Press.
The motif of play and banqueting in a serene natural environment derives from the literary genre of the pastoral, which was widely popular in Renaissance Europe.
He is the only person to have his elbow on the table and his head is also vertically the lowest of anyone in the painting.
A mandoline-player sits at a table, with his body turned three-quarters right, but facing the spectator.
Literature Marechal, Els., Devisscher, Hans., Huvenne, Paul., Koninklijk Museum voor Schone Kunsten (Antwerpen), Het museumboek : hoogtepunten uit de verzameling, Koninklijk Museum voor Schone Kunsten, Antwerpen, cop.
Jesus is located centrally in the painting surrounded by his disciples with six on each side, and he holds a loaf of bread with a cup of wine in front of him.
Subsequent Renaissance artists generally abandoned the depiction of Serpent as a human-headed creature.
Reception After the painting became exhibited most of the Finnish audience and critics did not approve of it and the artist suffered public disapproval.
In 1648 a written work by Carlo Ridolfi records that Leandro Bassano's father, Jacopo, painted a series of allegories of the four elements for a prince.
Old Catholic Church The Old Catholic Church celebrates the Transfiguration typically on 6 August, according to the Roman rite calendar; however, every local Old Catholic Church throughout the world has the option to celebrate this major feast on a different day.
Funeral potatoes is a potato-based hotdish or casserole, similar to au gratin potatoes, popular in the American Intermountain West and Midwest.
In the Bay of Kotor, the date when the česnica is eaten varies from place to place; it may be even twenty days after Christmas, on the Feast of Saint Sava.
The warriors and people that had come with the King found out what was transpiring and immediately told the King, who, out of sadness and regret, ordered the party to depart the island, leaving the girl in her ʻumu grave.
Brynwood earned negative attention for its role in the work stoppage and sale of Stella D'oro, including a reference in an op-ed piece by the AFL–CIO's Richard Trumka, published in The Wall Street Journal in April 2010.
Germany In German, fruitcake means Früchtebrot, which is used both as a general and as specific name.
24 April Exceptionally in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, Saint George's Day comes on 24 April.
See also List of doughnut varieties Ganmodoki – Tofu fritter made with vegetables Malassada – Portuguese-style fried doughnut, from the Azores Food portal Notes References External links Media related to Filhós at Wikimedia Commons
In addition, according to Herodotus, the Dacians and Scythians had a tradition where a fire was made in an enclosed space and cannabis seeds were burned and the resulting smoke ingested.
A more distant relative is Japanese miso soup, which also uses a fermented basic ingredient – miso paste.
On May 31, 2022, the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses announced the resumption of in-person events, including the Memorial of Jesus' Death.
The “four cups” concept is connected to the phrase “kin si thuai” (eat four cups), referring to the symbolic sharing of four sweets during a wedding ceremony, representing love, stability, and good fortune in married life.
The term is cognate to other Near Eastern terms for endives, such as Imperial Aramaic: עלת and Arabic ʿalath.
Hochzeitssuppe is eaten in northern Germany and southern Germany by the bride and groom and guests, traditionally after the wedding ceremony, and it is usually served as the starter on the menu at the wedding reception.
Distribution and habitat A native of most European countries and West Asia, it reaches as far north as Scandinavia and beyond the Arctic Circle, frequenting cornfields and their neighbourhoods.
Furthermore, proponents of bibeki expound on the medical belief that iron is healthy for humans as a mineral.
Ethiopia In the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, her feast includes vibrant liturgies with traditional chants and incense, reflecting her role as a myrrh-bearer.
After this he got up from the cricket and pronounced the ease and rest of the soul departed, for which he would pawn his own soul.
In Val-de-Travers in western Switzerland, a similar tradition exists where a ham is cooked in asphalt (Jambon cuit dans l’asphalte).
Some Eastern Catholic Churches (for instance, the Ethiopic Rite Catholics of Ethiopia and Eritrea) have adopted the use of unleavened bread, justifying it by reference to the ancient Jewish practice of using only unleavened bread at Passover meals, and give Communion by intinction.
Lupe Jackson, a New Mexican native, won first prize in a New England cookie contest in 2008 for her Bizcochito recipe—overcoming the Huckabees' snickerdoodles and the Romneys' Welsh skillet cakes.
Panikhida Prosphora Radonitsa Saturday of Souls Cuccìa - Sicilian sweet grain pudding, served around Christmas.
The Liturgy of the Presanctified Gifts Eastern Orthodox practice with regard to the Liturgy of the Presanctified Gifts has varied historically and geographically.
The cake is now better-known in the Icelandic communities in Canada and the United States than it is in Iceland.
References External links Official website (archived, 26 Sep 2008) No Contract, No Cookies: The Stella D'Oro Strike at IMDb
Corsica, France In Corsica, the feast is quieter, observed in rural villages influenced by Spanish rule (16th–18th centuries) but lacks the scale of Madrid or the Philippines.
It denotes anything, typically food, that is first offered to a deity or saint and then distributed in His or Her name to their followers or others as a good sign.
It is an integral part of Jagannatha worship and a unique cultural tradition blending devotion, community, and culinary heritage.
After the liturgy, those attending share in eating the koliva as they speak of the deceased and say, "May God forgive him/her." Some Orthodox parishes have a designated individual charged with making the koliva.
The "later" bitterness of lettuce refers to the fact that lettuce plants become bitter after they "bolt" (flower), a process which occurs naturally when days lengthen or temperatures rise.
If you stole dew from a field that was growing well and then wiped it on your own lawn, you could steal the fertility of their land.
Khanom sot sai (Thai: ขนมสอดไส้, pronounced [kʰānǒm sɔ̀ːt sâj]), also known as khanom sai sai (ขนมใส่ไส้, pronounced [kʰānǒm sàj sâj]), is a Thai dessert with a sweet filling.
In Brazilian Candomblé by example, fish are sacred for their connection to Iemanjá, horns given the relation to Iansã.
Chazeret (Hebrew: חזרת) is used for the requirement called Korech, in which the maror is eaten together with matzo.
Other variations Pepper, crayfish, salt and tomatoes can be added to the mashed beans and coconut mixture.
In September 2009, Brynwood announced the sale of Stella D'oro to Lance, a large manufacturer of snack foods, which intended to relocate Stella D'Oro's production to a non-union facility in Ashland, Ohio.
Truro – Procession through the streets ending with speeches outside Truro Cathedral with music and dance also playing a large part in the celebrations.
In the Ancient Greek panspermia, a mixture of cooked seeds and nuts were offered during the pagan festival of the Anthesteria.
Panagia The Prosphoron from which a particle is removed in honor of the Theotokos (Virgin Mary) is called Panagia (ἄρτος τῆς Παναγίας) and is solemnly blessed in her honour during the Divine Liturgy.
In the case of Menorca, the panets de mort are documented in the recipe book De re cibaria (1923), one of the most complete on island cuisine.
The filling is infused with creme de menthe and creme de cacao, which give the mousse its characteristic green coloring.
Armenia "Chi kofte" is considered a delicacy in Armenian culture and is normally prepared on special occasions, especially during holidays.
References Further reading Inyama yenhloko (cows head), 2 January 2021: Inyama yenhloko (heads meat) is a famous Mzansi traditional food.
For I know not but that the Church was divinely authorized through trustworthy revelations to honour thus the memory of these Christians.
As beef became more accessible, the dish was brought to Seoul with the construction of the Gyeongbu Line, and eventually became widespread throughout Korea.
The cup is turned over into the saucer to cool, and the patterns of the coffee grounds are interpreted.
Chile In Chile, in the town of Cuz Cuz, 5 kilometers from the city of Illapel, Choapa province, Coquimbo region, the feast of San Isidro is celebrated on May 15.
It is traditionally served at weddings in the Delta State; its absence at a wedding celebration is considered insulting to guests.
It generally follows EU regulations to simplify exporting, although wine sold domestically does not need to.
See also Bhoga Jagannath Jagannath Temple, Puri Ratha Yatra (Puri) Cuisine of Odisha Gajapati Gajapati Dynasty References External links The food offerings of the Dark Lord
'husband and wife cake') or bánh xu xê, is a Vietnamese dessert made from tapioca flour with mung bean stuffing wrapped in a box made of pandan leaves.
Members often donate the money saved from not eating as a fast offering to help feed the poor in their area.
Ethiopian Catholic and Orthodox churches The Ethiopian Orthodox Church holds the ceremony of Buhe on the Feast of the Transfiguration.
The dish usually consists of hash browns or cubed potatoes, cheese (cheddar or Parmesan), onions, cream soup (chicken, mushroom, or celery) or a cream sauce, sour cream, and a topping of butter with corn flakes or crushed crackers or potato chips.
In the United States, fruitcake has become a ridiculed dessert, in part due to inexpensive mass-produced cakes of questionable age.
Records On 6 March 2009, alumni of the Pune-based Maharashtra State Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology entered the Limca Book of Records after creating India's biggest croquembouche.
Another proposed origin story is that James Harrod, eventual founder of Harrodsburg, Kentucky, brought stack cake from Pennsylvania to Kentucky, but the cake would not have gained popularity until flour became widely available, over 100 years later.
Other cultural traditions affect the guest's appreciation of the beverage and the conviviality of the occasion, including story-telling, fortune-telling, and so forth.
The inscription on it reads: “I have celebrated with rakia.” The country has taken measures to declare the drink as a national drink in the European Union to allow lower excise duty domestically but has yet yielded no concrete results.
The will of Alfred the Great is said to refer to the saint, in a reference to the church of Fordington, Dorset.
John's bread, "Klausenmann" for Saint Nicholas Day Speculaas is one of the most popular forms of Gebildbrot.
Its distinct taste and look is in large part due to the addition of wort to the dough, making it similar to a malt loaf.
Furthermore, various pre-communion prayers have been composed, which many (but not all) Orthodox churches require or at least strongly encourage members to say privately before coming to the Eucharist.
In areas where an ujiko prepared the shinsen, the methods were passed down by a group known as a miyaza.
During times of hardship, when a wedding was impossible, the blessing and sharing of bread was often considered enough to constitute a marriage in the eyes of the community.
Popularity It was originally marketed as an everyday side dish but became popular for Thanksgiving dinners in the 1960s after Campbell's placed the recipe on the can's label.
Similar dishes Eastern European cuisines also have variations of soups based on soured flour or other modes of fermentation.
History Like other egg-based Portuguese sweets, fios de ovos is believed to have been created by Portuguese nuns around the 14th or 15th century.
Since the 1950s, the celebration has become increasingly observed and since the start of the 21st century almost every Cornish community holds some sort of celebration to mark the event.
People gather at teahouses to chat, socialize and enjoy tea, and young people often meet at teahouses for dates.
The Adventist, Baptist, Methodist, Latter-day Saints, and Pentecostal traditions tend to either encourage abstinence from or prohibit the consumption of alcohol (cf.
Acarajé de Xangô (Sango) Acarajé de Xangô (àkàrà tí Ṣàngó) is a variety of acarajé offered to the orixá Xangô, known as the òriṣà Ṣangó in the Yoruba culture.
[...]" In the Catholic Church, "The communicant must not be permitted to intinct the host himself in the chalice, nor to receive the intincted host in the hand.
If the bridegroom drinks his coffee without any sign of displeasure, the bride-to-be assumes that the groom is good-tempered and patient.
in Exodus 29:41, since at the time the King James Version was written, meat referred to food in general rather than the flesh of animals in particular.
According to one of the many origin stories, the confectionery was invented in 19th century in Praga district.
In the northern Adriatic—mainly Istria—rakija is typically made of honey (medica) or mistletoe (biska).
This also forms the entrée on wedding menus, followed by the cold meat from which the broth had been prepared, served with remoulade, silverskin onions, and pickled gherkins as a second course.
A repast is a gathering or meal held after a funeral or memorial service, during which family, friends, and mourners come together to share food, offer condolences, and provide mutual support.
The motto "the loaf of Nature's kitchen table," a common metaphor for returning thanks and agape (unconditional love) back to nature, is derived from prosphora.
Alcohol Most Christian denominations condone moderate consumption of alcohol and beverages, including the Anglicans, Catholics, Presbyterians, Lutherans, Reformed and the Orthodox.
Butler suggests that "oysters taste pretty similar to dried ling: they're salty, briny and can be quite chewy.
One of the Russian forms of the name George being Yuri, the two feasts are popularly known as Vesenniy Yuriev Den (Yuri's Day in the Spring) and Osenniy Yuriev Den (Yuri's Day in the Fall).
The clear and hearty soup is made by slowly simmering galbi in water for a long time and is eaten as a meal.
Ritual use At the end of the Orthodox Christian burial service, at the exit from the cemetery, visitors are offered a piece of soda bread (pogača) and a glass of rakia.
Western Christianity Intinction is a method of administering Holy Communion in many Western Christian denominations.
Seudah shlishit (Hebrew: סעודה שלישית, romanized: səʿuḏah šəlišiṯ third meal) or shaleshudes (Yiddish, an elided form of Hebrew: שָׁלֹשׁ סְעֻדוֹת, romanized: šāloš sǝʿuḏot, lit.
See also Osechi Rice and curry No htamin References External links Youtube: Kiribath & Lunu Miris - UYAMU - YAMU TV
Other recipes called for the lampreys to be baked in syrup in a high pie crust, after which the crust is opened and wine and spices are poured in.
Nowadays most young people including women enjoy the meat and it has been popular in South African and can be bought at kasi or restaurants selling South African cuisine.
A sugar syrup is prepared with sugar, water, and aromatic ingredients like cardamom, saffron, kewra water, and rose water.
Although according to some opinions one is required to recite kiddush at this meal, most say it is not necessary.
The Lord's Evening Meal, also known as the Memorial of Jesus' Death, is an annual commemoration of the death of Jesus by Jehovah's Witnesses.
It is firstly offered to the deities alongside other worshipping materials such as Sindoor, coconut, sweets, etc.
Rice and glutinous rice are hulled to make grain particles or powder and then steamed in a siru (earthenware steamer) and pounded with utensils.
Traditionally made with raw meat, there are vegetarian variations made with bulgur, and in Urfa, a local meatless version is made with scrambled eggs.
A portion of this was then burnt on the altar, along with the frankincense, while the remainder was allocated to the priests, who were to eat it within the sanctuary.
One doed-koeck recipe called for fourteen pounds of flour, six pounds of sugar, five pounds of butter, one quart of water, two teaspoons of pearl ash, two tablespoons of salt, and one ounce of caraway seed.
The twentieth century—especially after the Second Vatican Council—saw a return to more widespread sharing in the Eucharist under the forms of both bread and wine in the Latin Catholic Church.
Preparation The first step for making the bread is to bring molasses, brown sugar, caraway seeds, wort, and water to a gentle boil, then to add shortening or butter and citrus rind.
Prepared on Holy Saturday along with the next day's lamb, magiritsa is consumed immediately after the midnight Divine Liturgy.
For this, the "Sociedad Matriz de San Isidro de Carampa" organizes, together with the Steward and the Adornante, the festivities for that date.
However, its absence from the approved list in the Mishnah and Talmud indicate that it is not halakhically suitable.
Vimala is the Tantric consort of Jagannath and the guardian goddess of the Jagannath Temple, Puri – the principal temple of the god.
In the sellisternium, the attending goddesses sat on chairs or benches (in Latin, sellae), usually in the company of exclusively female hosts and guests.
Under European Community regulations, to be called rum/brandy/sherry butter, it must contain at least 20% butterfat.
European wine grape traditions were incorporated into New World wine, with colonists planting vineyards in order to celebrate the Eucharist.
1327–1377) lampreys had declined in price somewhat but remained expensive enough to restrict them to the wealthy.
See also Clams casino List of clam dishes List of seafood dishes New England clam bake References Further reading Chase, S.L.; Benson, M.
A similar tradition in the south of England, believed to have originated in Romany culture, involves baking a wooden clothes peg in the cake, symbolising the connection of the couple to each other.
Tea is drunk from small glasses to preserve heat and to display its colour, with lumps of beetroot sugar, either dissolved in the cup for sweetness or pressed between the tongue tip and upper palate for reduced sugar intake (kırtlama).
During Lent some Christian communities, such as Orthodox Christians in the Middle East, undertake partial fasting eating only one light meal per day.
In late 19th-century recipes, the custard is elaborately flavored and scented with citron, orange flower water, and vanilla sugar.
Serving Owho soup is typically eaten with a starch (usi) such as boiled yam, boiled bananas, boiled plantain or sweet potatoes or other types of swallow but is sometimes eaten alone.
'asphalt leg of lamb') is a French dish consisting of a leg of lamb prepared by wrapping the meat in kraft paper and placing it in a bath of hot asphalt.
Tumpeng Robyong — This kind of tumpeng usually served in the traditional Javanese siraman (bridal shower) ceremony.
The high levels of caffeine and chlorophyll aid in the stimulation of brain activity and tissue growth.
Traditional Armenian chi kofte is made in two varieties, either in loose meatball form in the shape of a small egg, or flattened on a plate with olive oil and minced green onions, similar to kibbeh nayyeh.
The biscuits produced were less sweet than other Italian baked goods and marketed as an accompaniment to coffee and tea.
It was not until the 19th century that new brewery technologies made sufficient baker's yeast available.
Prashad is also taken at the initiation ceremony of Amrit Sanchar at the very end where it is shared out equally among all.
When drinking "for the soul" of the deceased, one spills some rakia on the ground, saying "May God receive this for her/him", before drinking the rest.
See also Kollyvades Movement Memorial service (Orthodox) Prayer for the dead Kutia - a sweet grain pudding, traditionally served in Russian, Belarus, Ukrainian, Polish and Lithuanian cultures.
Boys may wear a suit and tie, tuxedo, their Sunday best, or national dress, with embroidered armbands worn on the left arm and occasionally white gloves.
Production The cookie dough or batter is put into a pizzelle iron, which resembles a small variant of the popular waffle iron.
Many religions have special spellings for the food, which sacralize it and, therefore, who will eat it; but there are foods sacred by its inner nature.
For centuries, Britain has been one of the world's greatest tea consumers, and now consumes an average per capita of 1.9 kg (4.18 lbs) per year.
The sides of the bamboo tubes are traditionally greased with coconut oil, but modern techniques use butter or margarine.
Birria (Spanish: [ˈbirja] ) is a regional variation of barbacoa from western Mexico, mainly made with goat, beef or lamb.
It has the same amount of whole-wheat flour, clarified butter and sugar, to emphasize the equality of men and women.
Costco's CFO, Richard Galanti, has repeatedly rebuffed suggestions that Costco might eventually increase the cost of its chickens above $4.99, which has been the price of a Costco rotisserie chicken since 2009.
Clams oreganata or baked clams is an Italian-American seafood dish served most commonly as an appetizer.
Versions are found in most Arab, Balkan and Ottoman cuisines, with various different forms and recipes.
Gallery See also Samgyetang, a chicken ginseng soup Seolleongtang, a beef soup Haejangguk, soups eaten as a hangover remedy List of soups Korean cuisine List of Korean dishes Irish stew References External links Galbitang recipe, Konglish Kitchen
Operations Stella D'oro's bakery was located on West 237th Street at the north end of Kingsbridge in the Bronx, New York City, but this was closed in October 2009 after disputes with labor unions and not included in the sale to Lance.
Presence in England There are 52 known images of her in various English churches that survived the ravages of the 16th-century Commissioners.
Typically served alongside tea or Turkish coffee, during social gatherings, holidays, and family visits.
the anticipatory smell of the roasting beans) do act on the imagination and have a psychological effect.
The Crimean Tatar kurabye has many forms, but basically it looks like a rhombus, or a combination of two or three rhombuses to form a flower, or it is cut in the shape of a crescent.
When eaten on Easter morning after church, magiritsa is sometimes accompanied by salad and cheese, tsoureki sweet bread, and hard-boiled eggs dyed red.
Ryōwa claimed his family lineage for the Ogasawara Ko school, making him the 4th generation grandmaster after Furuichi Inei.
In a hot boiler of asphalt, when paving the ground, immerse a leg of lamb wrapped in very strong paper.
The salt is created by mixing rock salt with flavourings such as kvass, herbs, or rye, and baking the mixture at a very high temperature for several hours.
The popped rice is roasted over low heat until the grains puff up, creating a light and crispy texture, and the black sticky rice is cooked glutinous rice served with coconut milk to achieve a soft consistency and rich flavor.
The centerpiece is surrounded by a diverse assortment of traditional side dishes, including Polao or Biryani, kebab, rezala, and korma, eggs.
Since the 2000s, hosts with low gluten content have been manufactured in the United States, especially in parts of Missouri and New York.
Kiviak or kiviaq is a traditional wintertime Inuit food from Greenland that is made of little auks (Alle alle), a type of seabird, fermented in a seal skin.
Folklore and popular culture As a staple food, kyselo plays an important part in local legends and fairy tales, especially in connection to the mythical mountain lord Krakonoš (German: Rübezahl).
Influence of Catholicism Influenced by Catholicism, Ilocanos often perform átang during major Christian celebrations such as Paskúa (Christmas) and Semana Santa (Holy Week).
The 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica states: ...in the Balkan peninsula a small bread image of the deceased is made and eaten by the survivors of the family.
Chōin's grandson, Furuichi Jyōin, became the third successor of the Furuichi style of tea before Jyōin's adopted son, Ryōwa, established the Furuichi-style of tea as the Ogasawara Ko-ryū.
It is also called Vardavar (Վարդավառ or rose festival), a pagan celebration that the observance of the transfiguration officially replaced but some of whose customs and traditions are still observed by Christian Armenians and Muslim Hemshin people.
Literally, makan bajamba means eating together; it facilitates a sense of togetherness regardless of status of the participants.
It is distinct from the zidqa brikha and lofani, which are two other types of ritual meal offered for the dead.
Italy The festival of Santa Maria Madarena du boscu , which takes place in Taggia in July, has deep roots that go beyond the already ancient Christian tradition: the festival is mentioned in the statutes of Taggia as early as 1381.
Intinction is the Eucharistic practice of partly dipping the consecrated bread, or host, into the consecrated wine before consumption by the communicant.
The recipes vary, some replacing caraway with cardamom, or leaving out the orange peel; in the United States its most common form is an aromatic orange and spice loaf.
For example, grilled shark has been uniquely offered in the ceremony in the Gyeongsang province and skate dishes in the Jeolla province.
After describing how a Christian man and woman, Metras and Quinta, were seized and killed by the mob, and how the houses of several other Christians were pillaged, Dionysius continues: At that time Apollonia, parthénos presbytis (mostly likely meaning a deaconess) was held in high esteem.
Eventually, flour cakes, either white or chocolate, supplanted fruit cakes as the most popular choice.
Under the right foot of the accused, he set a cross of poplar wood, and, holding another cross of the same material over the man's head, threw over his head the theft written on a tablet.
Because dairy foods and flesh meat (beef, pork, goat) are strictly forbidden on Good Friday, this dish is a suitable accompaniment to non-dairy foods such as fried fish and peppered snail.
MacLeod said that Macleod legend assigned the cup to Niall Glúndub, and that the cup might have passed down to Katharina from him, or the cup may have been attributed to him by his descendants.
It is also common in Albania (Albanian: bukë, kripë e zemër), Armenia (Armenian: աղ ու հաց, agh u hats), Turkey (Turkish: tuz-ekmek hakkı), among the Jewish diaspora (Hebrew: לחם ומלח, romanized: leḥem umalaḥ), and within parts of the Middle East under different names.
In Vojvodina česnica is not a kind of bread, but a pastry made of layers of filo filled with roughly chopped nuts and raisins, similar to baklava, but drier and is usually made exclusively with added honey.
Sometimes holy water will be either sprinkled into the dough or on the kneading trough at the beginning of the process.
Some rabbinic commentators conjecture that this three meal requirement was instituted in order to lend a special measure of honor to Shabbat, since the normative practice at the time was to eat two meals in the course of a normal weekday: one during the day and one at night.
Abstaining from coffee and tea makes it more difficult to socialize with non-Mormons, further strengthening group identity.
In popular culture Kenneth Roberts worked the drink into his story for the bestselling 1937 novel Northwest Passage, which some also attribute to the drink's renewed popularity in the 1940s.
Types of maror The Mishnah specifies five types of bitter herbs eaten on the night of Passover: ḥazzeret (lettuce), ʿuleshīn (endive/chicory), temakha, ḥarḥavina (possibly melilot, or Eryngium creticum), and maror (likely Sonchus oleraceus, sowthistle).
It is made up of coconut and palm sugar, and the filling is covered with steamed rice flour mixed with coconut cream.
Many Jews use horseradish condiment (a mixture of cooked horseradish, beetroot and sugar), though the Shulchan Aruch requires that maror be used as is, that is raw, and not cooked or mixed with salt, vinegar, sugar, lemon, or beets.
The columnella would then be used as a pendant, a motif that shows up frequently in Southeastern Ceremonial Complex (S.E.C.C.) designs.
These were designed by Victor Skellen, the art director at Josiah Wedgwood and Sons' Barlaston pottery, and were the first to have been made since the war.
In addition, there are several Soul Saturdays during the church year (mostly during Great Lent), as well as Radonitsa (on the second Tuesday after Pascha), on each of which general commemorations are made for all the departed.
Other common phrases of the same origin include "I will take the sacrament upon it!" and "May this morsel be my last!" See also Alphitomancy Witches of Belvoir - One of the women in this case reportedly died after wishing she should choke on her food if she was guilty.
"Fill me the mighty cup!" he said, "Erst own'd by the royal Somerled: Fill it, till on the studded brim In burning gold and bubbles swim, And every gem of varried shine Glow doubly bright in rosy wine!
The dish is only sometimes made with clams, and is more often made with mussels, a much more common bivalve in the Campania region where clams are very small.
In Australia, charcoal chicken has broad appeal, including amongst older and younger people sensitive to strong flavours.
The dish has sometimes been associated with the LDS Church, and with the state of Utah in general, because of its popularity among members of the church.
During the process of the ritual, fragments of faṭira (representing the substance of the ancestors which the deceased aims to join) and a piece of pigeon meat are folded in unbaked pihta (representing the soul).
A mendiant is a traditional French confection composed of a chocolate disk studded with nuts and dried fruits representing the four mendicant religious orders.
It is prepared by cooking rice with coconut milk, hence this name, and can be considered a form of rice cake or rice pudding.
Early Christians continued the refrigerium ritual, by taking food to gravesites and catacombs in honor of Christian martyrs, as well as relatives.
In the latter manner, the priest partially dips the consecrated bread into the consecrated wine and then places it in the mouth of the communicant.
Ghillie Basan wrote that kibbeh nayyeh is similar to çiğ köfte in that both are typically kneaded with seasonings and served uncooked, often with lettuce leaves.
The recipe was created for a feature article for the Associated Press; the requirement was for a quick and easy dish using ingredients most US households kept on hand.
The "big supper" (le gros souper) ends with a ritual 13 desserts, representing Jesus Christ and the 12 apostles.
The fourth century pilgrim Egeria states that after Vespers at the Tomb of Christ a procession would go to the site of Calvary where further prayers were said after which the congregation were dismissed.
Instant powder kyselo base is now available for use in large catering kitchens or liquid fermented cereal.
In the Syriac Orthodox, Malankara Orthodox, Revised Julian calendars within Eastern Orthodoxy, Catholic, Old Catholic, and Anglican churches, the Feast of the Transfiguration is observed on 6 August.
Pańska skórka is most often very sweet, with a delicate caramel-almond flavor, if made with the traditional recipe in mind.
Black beans are substituted for soaked corn, similarly made into a paste, wrapped in banana leaves, and steamed in a pan.
Then it is sliced thin and served with a dipping sauce: cho-ganjang (soy sauce–vinegar mixture) or gyeoja-chojang (soy sauce, vinegar, and mustard mixture) for the beef pyeonyuk, and saeu-jeot (salted shrimps) for the pork pyeonyuk.
Little by little his body will become purified by the internal lustration of God; day by day his mortal frame, shedding its earthly elements, will become in very truth the Temple of the Holy Ghost.
Made with soured rye flour (sourdough starter), sometimes also with soured oatmeal, bread or wheat, it has a characteristic slightly sour, thick and tangy taste, and is served hot.
Kava reduces short-term, situational anxiety, but its specific efficacy for generalized anxiety disorder appears to not be supported by the evidence.
A cup full of water with a few drops of rose water poured into it, and next to it was a jug that had not seen water.
It is a common side dish during traditional after-funeral dinners, but it is also served at potlucks and other social gatherings, sometimes under different names.
16:25, in which the word for day, hayom, appears three times with reference to the manna that fell in a double portion on Friday.
That same year, their future National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame filly Paseana won the Breeders' Cup Distaff at Gulfstream Park.
In 2014, she was awarded the International Food and Agribusiness Management Association (IFAMA) Lifetime Award.
In 1963, Latham began advocating for the use of breastfeeding instead of infant milk formula, and after a decade of struggle, in 1981 he was able to regulate the marketing of infant formula.
Career Feingold worked as the house officer at the children's clinic of the University of Vienna, Austria from 1928 to 1929.
She entered the Rostov Medical Institute, graduated from it, and was left in the residency of the surgical clinic of the same institute.
The name is taken from the fictional Shangri-La, a reference Roberts explained by stating that Shangri-La is a "very peaceful place.
Dr Elisabet Helsing DrMedSci (3 June 1940 – 26 January 2019) was a Norwegian nutritional physiologist.
He was the chairman of HealthWatch (formerly the Campaign against Health Fraud) from 1991–1993, 1997–1999, 2003–2005.
Born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, she attended the University of Saskatchewan and graduated with a bachelor of science degree in dietetics and nutrition.
Janine Leal Reyes (born 13 November 1976) is a Venezuelan nutritionist, television presenter and model.
He was house physician at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh.
She invented a gluten-free all-purpose flour and consults to the food industry regarding product development and consumer eating habits.
Lahmann stressed the importance of diet, exercise and fresh air, and was an ardent practitioner of physiotherapy and hydrotherapy.
In 2012, she still lived in the house in Arima where she had been born a century earlier, which she had inherited from her parents, and in 2019 was living in a care home in the same area.
He was awarded a KCB in the New Year honours of 1952 and in 1953 was appointed Honorary Physician to the Queen.
Publications Soy Bean Recipes (1942) The Useful Soybean: A Plus Factor in Modern Living (1945) Soybean Cookbook (1968) [with Dorothea Van Gundy Jones] == References ==
She completed her doctorate in 2000 with a thesis titled "The relationship between body fat distribution, insulin sensitivity and postprandial lipids in Europeans and South Asians: a cross-sectional study".
Works (ed.) Art of Swimming, by Matthew Webb, 1875 (ed.) Cassell's Dictionary of Cookery, 1875-6 Common Sense Cooking, 1877 Choice Dishes at Small Cost, 1882 (ed.) Billiards, by W.
Career Poorwo Soedarmo lived in Banten, West Jakarta, during the Japanese occupation in Indonesia and was head of its medical services until 1948.
In the last chapter Brinton demonstrates the absence of pathological ground for the affection often named "gout in the stomach".
On October 15, 1933, she founded a health food store named The House of Better Living at 1207 West Sixth St., Los Angeles, California.
She was born in Bury on 16 March 1891, went to school in Hough Green and then studied medicine at the University of Liverpool where she was a Roger Lyon Jones scholar, won the Holt and Kanthack medals and the university prize for medicine.
(June 29, 1924 – April 27, 2004) was a professor of pathology at University of California, Los Angeles School of Medicine, a leading advocate of calorie restriction for life extension and health improvement, and a crew member of Biosphere 2.
He served as president of the Royal Society of Medicine and the Royal College of Physicians and was created 1st Baronet Hutchison, of Thurle, Parish of Streatley, Berkshire (UK) in 1939.
In 2010 Pollan was interviewed for the film Queen of the Sun: What are the bees telling us?, a feature-length documentary about honey bees and colony collapse disorder.
Early life and education One of three children, Rossi was raised by her single mother, a science teacher, on a farm near Cairns in rural Australia.
Hedayat Award", the highest award in Iran bestowed annually by the Iranian Food Science and Technology Association (chairman: Seyed Mohammad Hosseini) to the most achieved Iranian persons or institutions in the field of nutrition and food science.
In 1885 he was admitted as privatdocent to the medical facility of the University of Giessen, where he had been assistant in the medical clinic since 1883.
Writings Kicinski has written cookbooks including Simply Gluten Free Desserts (2011), Simply Gluten Free Quick Meals (2012), Simply Gluten Free Cupcakes (2013) and Simply Gluten Free 5 Ingredient Cookbook (2016).
In his 25 years as a physician at Mayo, Alvarez published 347 scientific papers, focusing on digestion and the human gut.
As group director for nutritional specialties, the firm made nutrition products for infants and children.
In 1914 he married May Tweedy, a lecturer at Bedford College (London) who would also carry out research into nutrition and dental disease.
He grew up on the island of Karmøy and took his secondary education at Lycée Corneille in Rouen, France.
Oneworld Publications, 2019 ISBN 978-1786075130 Ending Hunger:The Quest to Feed the World Without Destroying it.
Blog The website and blog, Simply Gluten Free, was Kicinski's first platform for sharing gluten-free recipes, starting in 2007.
It looks at the evolution of human diets, protein needs within the body and problems of world malnutrition.
Since at least 2023, Maye Musk has developed a large following in China, where she has "star status" and is seen as a role model.
He fell ill and, after police officials realized the severity of his condition, they transported him to a hospital.
Philip Bovier Hawk (July 18, 1874 - September 13, 1966) was an American biochemist, nutritionist, and amateur tennis player.
Oniang'o is the Founder Editor-in-chief of the African Journal of Food, Agriculture, Nutrition and Development (AJFAND) in 2001 to highlight relevant academic research in the field.
Over many years Grant championed the use of fresh and natural ingredients along with minimising the amount of processing in our food.
He served on bodies advising the National Institutes of Health and the National Research Council in the United States, and internationally to the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization.
In 2024, Hill released The living Proof Challenge, a zero-cost 12 week challenge to help people optimise important biomarkers to lower their risk of disease and live better for longer.
She wrote many papers and 12 books, including Toxicity of Industrial Organic Solvents which became the standard reference on the subject.
DiSpirito was a contestant on season seven of Dancing with the Stars and was paired with professional ballroom dancer Karina Smirnoff.
Horace Benge Dobell (1 January 1828 – 22 February 1917) was an English doctor and medical writer, consulting doctor to the Royal Infirmary/Hospital for Diseases of the Chest.
She is a member of the Canadian Association for the Gastronomic and Hotel Press (Association canadienne de santé publiqu) and of the Union des Artistes.
During Project Mercury, the astronauts could not safely remove their protective clothing to perform this physiological function, so this diet was crucial.
Rorer's Vegetable Cookery and Meat Substitute, which illustrated how to cook three meatless meals a day.
While at the Bamako institute, she notably developed Deliken, a sorghum-based nutritional biscuit, among other food products and techniques.
This booked was well received by the media with stellar reviews from the women's magazine Marie Claire (February 2009), further reviews were cited by other UK newspapers.
COVID Symptom Study In March 2020, during the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in the UK, Spector made use of twins already taking part in a genetic study to begin an investigation of COVID-19 symptoms.
Other work Pollan is a contributing writer for the New York Times Magazine and a former executive editor for Harper's Magazine.
Most RDs work in the treatment and prevention of disease (administering medical nutrition therapy, as part of medical teams), often in hospitals, health-maintenance organizations, private practices, or other health-care facilities.
Genster was born September 5, 1917, in Sheffield, Illinois, where he graduated from high school when he was 16 years old and spent a year working on a farm before attending college.
Michael Hebranko (May 14, 1953 – July 25, 2013) was an American man who suffered from an extreme case of morbid obesity and was one of the heaviest men in the world.
She became a passionate believer in the diet, and after advocating for it in a series of articles in Sunday Graphic, she was visited by William Howard Hay, the developer of the diet, who asked her to create a recipe for British tastes.
Agnes White Tizard (July 10, 1895 – March 28, 1979) was an American home economist and nutrition consultant who worked for General Mills and was associated with the brand character Betty Crocker.
She became especially interested and competent in the field of nutrition, including related economic considerations.
Legacy and impact Wahlqvist is recognized for pioneering human nutrition as an academic discipline in Australia and for advancing cross-disciplinary approaches linking nutritional science with ecosystem and public health.
Louise Horne DCSG (12 May 1912 – 28 March 2021) was a Trinidad and Tobago politician and nutritionist who introduced the school meals programme.
Subsequently she worked as an agricultural officer in Tobago, a small island north of Trinidad, where she was the first and only woman in the ministry of agriculture, and where she met her husband, Finn Thilsted.
Wicks also topped both the YouTube charts as the number one trending and breakout creator of the year.
Her research was the first to show that nutritional deficiency in the host can permit a non-virulent virus to become virulent, indicting that the nutritional status of the host can drive infection.
Works Kitab al-Iqtisad "The book of moderation," this was a treatise on general therapy written in his youth for the Almoravid prince Ibrahim Yusuf ibn Tashfin.
By July 2020 the app had more than 4 million users, and the next month the project received grant funding from the Department of Health and Social Care.
Career Ryley was a dietitian at Albany General Hospital for a year, and superintendent of the dining halls at the University of Toronto for nine years.
Claiborne was the first man to supervise the food page at a major American newspaper and is credited with broadening The New York Times's coverage of new restaurants and innovative chefs.
She served as a member of the Commission on Education and Training, the International Union for Conservation of Nature & Natural Resources (IUCNNR), Switzerland and as Chairperson, Food & Nutrition Programme Committee, International Federation For Home Economics (IFHM), France.
Selected publications Black's Medical Dictionary (1906 and later editions) History of Scottish Medicine to 1860 (London, Baillière, Tindall & Cox, 1927) Diet in Health and Sickness (1933) Comrie, John D.
She later became the Head of the Department of Food and Nutrition and the Dean of the School of Home Economics (1947-1960).
Although an injury ruled her out of both matches, she recovered to participate in the 2014 UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship qualification series hosted by Ireland later that month.
Kabir received several awards from the food and television industries, including the Sheltech Award in 2009.
The Park Avenue Diet The Park Avenue Diet is a six-week weight loss program including meal plans and advice regarding exercise, hair, makeup, and relationships.
Chantal Yvette Kaboré-Zoungrana (née Kaboré) is a Burkinabé animal nutritionist and biosecurity expert.
As of 2022, she is a professor of nutrition at the University of Illinois Chicago (UIC) in the department of Kinesiology and Nutrition.
Méthodes analytiques et procédés pour reconnaître les fraudes, 1884 – The sophistication of wines: analytical methods and processes to recognize fraud.
One of those programmes was the development of the first television programme devoted to nutritional advice, called Creative Cooking.
A Journal of Daily Renewal: The Companion to Make the Connection, by Bob Greene and Oprah Winfrey, 1996; ISBN 0-7868-8215-8.
His first National Geographic article, in the July 1972 issue, described his two-week stay on an uninhabited island off the coast of Maine.
Clement in the 1981 American film The Bunker Bettina Redlich in the 2004 German film Downfall (Der Untergang) See also Adolf Hitler and vegetarianism List of people who disappeared References Footnotes Citations Sources Beevor, Antony (2002).
Stillman’s 14-Day Shape-Up Program (with Irwin Stillman, 1974) The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet (with Herman Tarnower, 1978) Delicious Quick-Trim Diet (1985) References External links Samm S.
Television In 2009, Kicinski started doing television cooking segments on the NBC-based WFLA-Tampa Bay's Daytime TV show.
In April 2013 she scored a hat-trick for the latter in their 4–3 FAI Schools Cup final win over Christ King.
Felice Nellie Jacka is an Australian academic, founder and president of the International Society for Nutritional Psychiatry Research.
Selected publications and reports by Klicka "Effects of Reduced Fat Intake on Serum Lipids in Healthy Young Men and Women at the U.S.
With the onset of World War II, Blaxter was conscripted and served with the 10th Field Regiment of the Royal Artillery from spring 1940 to the end of 1941, when he returned to NIRD.
In his book Healthy Aging, Weil looks at the process of growing older from a physical, social, and cross-cultural perspective, and in his book Why our Health Matters is focused on health care reform.
Research and publications Wahlqvist’s work encompasses clinical nutrition, public health, food systems, and ecohealth.
As part of this role Kaboré-Zoungrana announced the trialling of genetically modified cotton in association with Monsanto, an important crop for Burkina Faso, in 2011.
He worked as an assistant to Wilbur Olin Atwater in nutrition research at Wesleyan University (1898–1900).
For example, while Schuster served as the last Ambassador of Czechoslovakia to Canada from 1990 until 1992, Schusterová handled the diplomatic social duties expected of an ambassador's spouse.
Since the product contained Western medicine laxative ingredients and was not manufactured with the permission of the health authorities, it clearly violated the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act.
It was published in 2017 and has been seen as a reaction to and debunking of food faddism and unscientific advice about food promoted by advocates of "clean eating" and celebrities such as Gwyneth Paltrow.
Jung Da-yeon is a South Korean health influencer widely known as a Korean popular culture figure under the moniker "Auntie with a striking body" (Korean: 몸짱 아줌마; RR: momjjang ajumma).
A nutritionist, Valbonesi owns a healthy dining establishment, fitness center and has specialized in healthier diets and weight loss.
Selected publications The Erect Posture (Good Health, 1921) Fasting (The Medical Standard, 1922) Minor Maladies and Their Treatment (1923) The Science and Art of Living (1924) Middle Age and Old Age (1925) Obesity (1926) Minor Medical Mysteries (1935) See also Raw foodism == References ==
She then worked as a researcher at the Institut d'Economie Rurale in Bamako from 1990 to 1995 and at Texas A&M University in the U.S.
He was appointed full professor at the Faculty of Public Health at the University of São Paulo in 1989.
Selected publications His book on diabetes and its treatment, "Die zuckerkrankheit und ihre behandlung" (1895), was published over numerous editions.
Personal life She is the daughter of the artist William Geissler and the glass engraver Alison Geissler.
She appeared nude on both the cover of Time magazine for a health issue and the cover of New York magazine in 2011, the latter with a fake pregnant belly.
His column, "The Minimalist," ran in The New York Times for more than 13 years; the final column was published on January 26, 2011.
Selected works Anderson, Craig; Sally Rubenach; Cliona Ni Mhurchu; Michael Clark; Carol Spencer, and Adrian Winsor.
Madelyn Hirsch Fernstrom is an American scientist and broadcast journalist, She is also Professor of Psychiatry, Epidemiology and Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and a Board certified Nutrition Specialist.
Tayyem received the UNESCO-L'Oreal Fellowship for Young Women in Life Sciences and conducted postdoctoral research at UCSD Cancer Center at the University of California, San Diego, in the United States.
In 2021 she left her work to join the Schoenstatt Sisters of Mary, an international Catholic community of religious women, part of the international Schoenstatt movement.
Christine Envall (born 28 November 1972) is an Australian professional bodybuilder and nutritionist.
Christian diet programs are books and other name-brand products promoting weight-loss diets and other diets that the authors believe are consistent with Christian rules and values.
Tedstone is a Registered Public Health Nutritionist and a founding fellow of the Association for Nutrition, the voluntary regulator for nutritionists in the United Kingdom.
He was a singles semifinalist at the Cincinnati Open in 1908 and won singles titles at the state championships of Delaware (1905), and Connecticut (1907, 1908 and 1909).
While she was based at Nazi Boni University, Kaboré-Zoungrana investigated the effects of plant nutrition on livestock, including measuring the health of sheep consuming native plants Afzelia africana, Pterocarpus erinaceus or Khaya senegalensis when obtained during different seasons.
The Valley Center History Museum has a permanent exhibit about Tizard's life and work, where visitors can listen to a 1936 recording of Tizard speaking on the Cooking School of the Air radio program.
A growing number of dietitians work in the food industry, medical corporations, journalism, sports nutrition, corporate wellness programs, and other non-traditional dietetics settings.
One of the most extensive testimonies came from the couple's maid, Lilia Cárdenas, who had worked for them since 1995.
Awards and honours Rank Nutrition Named Lecture, Diabetes UK, 2017 University of Cambridge Impact Award, 2016 Senior Investigator, National Institute for Health Research, 2021 == References ==
Education Tedstone has a BSc and a PhD degree from the University of London, and conducted research into nutrition at the University of Oxford.
In 1985, she worked as dietetic internship director at Alton Ochsner Medical Foundation, also in New Orleans, LA, until 1993.
In 2019 Kaboré-Zoungrana also opened a new National Biosafety Laboratory on the Institut de l'Environnement et Recherches Agricoles campus in Ouagadougou, alongside Prof Alkassoum Maiga, Minister of Higher Education, Scientific Research and Innovation.
Dimbleby's great-grandmother, May Gaskell, was a "romantic confidante" of the artist Edward Burne-Jones, and a painting of her daughter Amy Gaskell by Burne-Jones is in the collection of Andrew Lloyd Webber.
Diehl suggested that most vegetarians are not really vegetarian because they consume dairy or egg products.
The President's Council on Fitness, Sports and Nutrition updated the President's Challenge Youth Fitness Test to reflect the latest science on kids' health and promote active, healthy lifestyles rather than athletic performance and competition.
The Feingold diet To treat or prevent hyperactivity, Feingold suggested a diet that was free of salicylates, artificial colors, artificial flavors, BHA, and BHT.
Rützler added that even in a blind trial she would have taken the product for meat rather than a soya copy.
The book condemned the food-habits of Australians, their meat-eating three times a day and excessive beer and tea consumption.
She was employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs from 1935 to 1944, then took a position with National Research Council until 1949, and from 1949 to 1954 at the University of New Mexico.
In 2013, Freedhoff criticized Health Check, a nutritional certification program operated by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, for having endorsed products with high sodium and/or sugar contents.
Education Mellanby was born in West Hartlepool, the son of a shipyard owner, and educated at Barnard Castle School and Emmanuel College, Cambridge, where he studied physiology.
Also in 1990, she was awarded honorary life membership of the New Zealand Dietetic Association / Dietitians New Zealand.
The Kindergarten system in the state was founded by that organisation, as was the local Girl Guides Association.
On May 23, 2007, Hasselbeck was involved in a heated on-air argument with co-host Rosie O'Donnell concerning the war in Iraq, which she supported and O'Donnell opposed.
In 2018, she was one of 18 French former Olympic and Paralympic athletes chosen to support the Paris bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics.
His father, John Dobell, was a wine merchant and his mother Julietta was a daughter of Samuel Thompson (1766–1837), a London political reformer.
Lahmann was influenced by the methods used by Vincenz Priessnitz (1799-1851) and Johann Schroth (1798-1856), both pioneers in the field of alternative medicine.
Having already been in Moscow as a hitting partner, she joined Alicia Molik, Samantha Stosur and Rennae Stubbs as the fourth team member after Nicole Pratt withdrew.
Little-White focused on outreach programmes to increase awareness, accessibility, and assistance for Jamaicans with disabilities in her later years.
She designed rations and their packaging for special contexts, including MREs and food for the Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo manned space missions, at the Army's Food Engineering Laboratory in Natick, Massachusetts.
She graduated from high school at the Nairobi International School (now known as International School of Kenya).
In 1993, she hosted the premiere of an educational video promoting the importance of a healthy diet for people living with HIV/AIDS.
Bodybuilding career Amateur career Envall is one of the few female bodybuilders with a career that spans more than two decades.
The author of over 400 published papers and other works, he served as editor of Nutrition Reviews from 1968 until 1978.
The diet recommended taking six bananas with 1000 cubic centimetres (4 glassfuls) of skimmed milk each day.
She is remembered for conducting ground-breaking research from the late 1940s into the Indigenous and First Nations peoples of Australia, Papua New Guinea and the Pacific region.
Tene, Ofra (2015), "'The New Immigrant Must Not Only Learn, He Must Also Forget': The making of Eretz Israeli Ashkenzi Cuisine", in Helman, Anat (ed.), Jews and Their Foodways, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0190265434 External links 1981 oral history interview with Dr.
They are looking to alternate sources of protein such as peas, beans, fish, poultry, cheese, eggs, milk, and milk products...
She carried out a year of research in nutritional epidemiology at the Geneva University Hospitals (French: Hôpitaux universitaires de Genève, HUG) in 1995.
In January 2012, Dukan suggested that the Baccalaureate exam, taken by 17-year-old children, should include one test which the children could pass simply by staying within appropriate weight limits.
Agatston is now the CEO of The Agatston Center, a multidisciplinary preventive practice in Miami with notable physicians Cindy Shaffer, MD, Oren Mechanic, MD, James Trice, MD, and Judi Woolger, MD.
He prescribed his patients individualized diets to help cure their ailments and also experimented with meat substitutes.
In March 2012 the French Ordre des médecins asserted that Dukan had violated the organization's medical code of practice by practising medicine as a business.
Claire Loewenfeld died on 20 August 1974, and is buried at St Lawrence's Church, Cholesbury, Buckinghamshire, near where she lived, alongside her husband Gunther Loewenfeld's cousins, Margaret Lowenfeld and Helena Wright née Lowenfeld.
Foreseeing the need to develop formal training programs and courses for dietitians and nutritionists in the Hadassah system after the establishment of the State of Israel, Bavly asked for and received a scholarship to return to Columbia University in 1946.
"Sleep timing is associated with diet and physical activity levels in 9-11-year-old children from Dunedin, New Zealand: the PEDALS study".
The book also inspired a film by Woody Allen, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex (*But Were Afraid to Ask) (1972).
He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters since 1988 and was a Knight, First Class of the Order of St.
After the war, she worked as a neurosurgeon at the Central Institute of Neurosurgery of the USSR Academy of Sciences.
They live on beans, fruits, seeds, monkey nuts, yams, maize, cayenne peppers, palm oil and occasionally palm wine.
His research focuses on the molecular and clinical aspects of nutrition and cancer, particularly folate metabolism, colorectal and breast cancer prevention, and epigenetics.
Additionally, in the weeks before each Project Mercury launch, Finkelstein would manage the astronauts' diet at a specialized facility behind NASA Hangar S in Cape Canaveral, Florida.
She sat as a full member on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Delegation for relations with the Federative Republic of Brazil.
The Rural Outreach Africa works with Kenyan smallholder farmers to promote the growth of indigenous crops like sorghum, cassava, arrowroot, and jute mallow as a solution to ensuring food security and Nutrition.
However, Bunge rejected the entire idea of vitamins and vitamin deficiencies; he opposed the doctoral dissertation of Nikolai Lunin regarding Vitamin C and scurvy.
Jean-Michel Cohen (born 22 May 1956) is a French nutritionist and author, best known for the Parisian Diet.
Ashley Adamson is a British dietician, Professor of Public Health Nutrition at Newcastle University.
Works She was the author of many books and a large number of publications including: "A System for all Systems." Soviet Life, Issues 1–6, pg.30-33, 1989.
The significance of this work in shaping future nutrition policy is disputed, and the Dietary Goals for the United States asks Americans to, "Reduce the consumption of refined and other processed sugars by about 45 percent to account for about 10 percent of total energy intake".
The experts are socialite Tinsley Mortimer, hairdresser Joel Warren, fitness personality Bernadette Penotti, psychologist Stanley Krippner, makeup artist Laura Geller, business consultant Helene Hellsten, and chef Marie-Annick Courtier.
Widdowson became one of the first woman graduates of Imperial College of London after earning her Bachelor's degree in 1928 for chemistry.
In 1963, Calloway took a position as a professor of nutrition at the University of California, Berkeley; she retired in 1991 and stayed a professor emerita until she was too affected by Parkinson's disease to work.
Garland recalled, "When my brother, Cedric, and I looked at one of the first maps produced by the National Cancer Institute of colon cancer incidence rates in the United States, we both immediately noticed a pattern, a distinct North-South gradient in incidence.
Here she developed Newcastle's research activity in Public Health Nutrition, and was made a Personal Chair in 2010.
A portion of each sale goes to the Garden to Table charity, which teaches children the essential skills of gardening and cooking.
Her book, Family Circle Quick Menu Cookbook offers quick full meals that can be prepared in less than an hour.
Willett is the principal investigator of the second Nurses' Health Study (NHS2 or NHS II), a compilation of studies regarding the health of older women and their risk factors for major chronic diseases.
Pavy died on 19 September 1911 and was buried in a family vault on the western side of Highgate Cemetery.
In 1976, she married the retired Harvard anthropology professor Douglas Oliver and settled with him in Honolulu.
In November 2018, Gordon-Larsen was appointed the University of North Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health's Associate Dean for Research as she stepped down as chair of the NIH Kidney, Nutrition, Obesity and Diabetes study section.
In 1882 Dobell moved to Bournemouth, where in 1885 he became a consulting physician at the newly opened Mont Dore hydropathic sanatorium for patients with chest diseases.
This was based on observations of the difference in patterns of diseases between Western and traditional African societies.
De la Fuente de Diez Canseco, Luciana; Muñoz Jáuregui, Ana María; Valdizán Ayala, José; Gómez Mendoza, José; Portugal Melgar, Alan; Cárdenas Jarama, Martín; Cuya Alvarado, Shirley (September 2019).
As part of her academic growth, she has participated in congresses by a variety of institutions, including the Latin American Society of Nutrition, Chemical Society of Peru and Peruvian Society of Nutrition, of which she is a member.
Rorer was in charge of the Philadelphia Cooking School for 18 years and was able to reach 5,000 students through education during that time.
Brophy also sat as a substitute member on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and Delegation for relations with Afghanistan.
Brazil To obtain the Nutritionist title, one must have studied at a recognized university for four years plus a year practice (internship).
Helsing attended the University of Oslo, and subsequently wrote on and campaigned for natural breastfeeding.
The main criticism was taste, with Betty Friedan describing in her 1963 book The Feminine Mystique that women "ate a chalk called Metrecal".
He joined the Medical Department of King's College, gained the senior Medical Scholarship and qualified M.D from London University.
In 2013, DiSpirito hosted the Food Network reality show Restaurant Divided, where he went to struggling restaurants where the owners had two differing visions and then picked which concept would save the restaurant.
He was commissioned as a lieutenant in February 1916 rose to the rank of captain, serving in both France and Italy.
In 2017, she received the Ryley-Jeffs Memorial Award, the highest honour given to a Canadian dietitian.
Mosley described himself as "quite religious" until around the age of 20 and considered becoming a priest.
In June 1999, Hebranko was at his peak weight of 499 kg (1,100 lb), before again undergoing a massive weight loss and dropping to 207.5 kg (457 lb).
Genster oversaw the addition of chocolate, butterscotch and several other flavors, and created brand extensions such as Metrecal cookies and clam chowder, many of which were first tested on his own children.
These studies were important in examining the physical properties and energy values of common dietary foods so that calorie tables could be compiled.
She played a significant role in establishing the Jordanian Dietary guidelines for healthy individuals and patients with chronic diseases related to diet.
In 1985, in Chihuahua, he married María Luisa López-Collada Márquez de Richardson, the widow of American banker William B.
Aside from that, he also was among some of the first doctors in the world to emphasize the weight and significance of food allergy.
The book presents nutritional information and recommendations based on what was then the consensus of nutrition scientists, and is critical of many misconceptions about diet and nutrition, including ideas presented by guidelines from American organizations such as the USDA.
The home became a haven for Dolly, away from the crowds and fitted out with suitably sized furniture and bathroom fixtures.
Early life She was born in Maidstone, Kent, where her father was a director of the Lead Wool Company, a tool company.
Nonetheless, it was another decade before OSU conceded it should have called in outside investigators.
For the first office visit, Gosnell allegedly charged $115, but around December 2009 he allegedly increased the initial office visit fee to $150.
Investigation The murder investigation began in 1988 after Wood's ex-husband, whom she had told about the murders, went to the police.
During the legal proceedings, Agüero was incarcerated at the Bouwer prison in inner Córdoba, where she was isolated from other inmates to protect her from harm.
During the mental health assessment, psychiatrists found out that Nykopp-Koski is psychopathic and has an antisocial personality disorder, but she was deemed culpable for her actions.
Harold Shipman, the British doctor dubbed "Doctor Death" whose inquiry suggested he was responsible for 250 deaths.
Murders While working at Adventist Health Glendale in Glendale, California, Saldivar killed his patients by injecting a paralytic drug which led to respiratory and/or cardiac arrest.
Legal case 2010 raid Gosnell's clinic, the Women's Medical Society, was raided on February 18, 2010, under a search warrant by investigators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Pennsylvania State Police.
In the mid-seventies, she served as geriatrics manager within a Belgian public hospital in Wetteren.
Later murders From 2006 up until the autumn of 2010, Vila lamented to her colleagues that 'all the old women were dying on [her]'.
Media coverage and public reactions Gosnell's arrest has been the subject of much public comment and expressions of condemnation and shock by senior public figures of all parties.
She discovered in the process that she enjoyed playing God and holding the power of life and death in her hands.
The documentary was made by David Altrogge and won Best Short Film at the 2013 Justice Film Festival.
Wood was incarcerated in the minimum security Federal Correctional Institution, Tallahassee in Florida; she was released January 16, 2020 and is expected to live with relatives in South Carolina.
She was released on parole after only serving two years and later, on the condition that she move to New Zealand, received a full pardon from Governor Ernest Lister in 1916.
She worked as a nurse and was found guilty of killing five patients and the attempted murder of five more.
Both women labelled Jones as "evil" and "cold-blooded", while Connie Weeks, mother of victim Joshua Sawyer, read a statement in court, wishing that Jones "live a long and miserable life behind bars".
Eventually, Majors's coworkers began noticing a correlation between the spike in deaths and when he was on duty and joked about when the next patient would die.
See also Beverley Allitt, another nurse dubbed "The Angel of Death" who was responsible for killing patients.
Efren Saldivar (born September 30, 1969) is an American serial killer who murdered patients while working as a respiratory therapist at Adventist Health Glendale, named at that time Glendale Adventist Medical Center in Glendale, California.
Maria Gruber, Irene Leidolf, Stephanija Meyer, and Waltraud Wagner were four Austrian women who worked as nurse's aides at the Geriatriezentrum am Wienerwald in Lainz, Vienna, and who murdered scores of patients between 1983 and 1989.
Tomlinson, began a hearing in February 2011 to look into the failure of the Pennsylvania Department of State — which is responsible for licensing doctors — to provide any oversight of Gosnell's activities.
Wilson claimed that the acid had been mistakenly given to her by the pharmacist who prepared the medicine.
See also List of serial killers in the United States List of serial killers active in the 2020s == References ==
Police during her house search found books about bulimia, anorexia nervosa, death and her most read novels are Invisible Women by Fabiola De Clercq, Sprecata by Marya Hornbacher, Death is a friend by Marie de Hennezel, and above all Veronika Decides To Die by Paulo Coelho.
Described as kind and without any prior criminal history, on 27 June 2013, a tragedy occurred that changed her life: the death of her mother from leukaemia.
This was discovered by the medical director of the garrison, who informed the Public Prosecutor's Office.
Malèvre's arrest raised a national debate over the case itself as well as over the controversial topic of euthanasia in France.
As it was not supposed to do that, it was examined further, with the doctors discovering that it had been mixed with diamitol.
The Besançon poisonings was a French legal case resulting in the conviction of French anesthesiologist Frédéric Péchier to a life sentence for intentionally poisoning 30 patients and killing 12.
In 2008, the Justice Ministry in Austria announced that it would release Wagner and Leidolf from prison due to good behaviour.
Some of the more famous were Mirza Mohammad Farrokhi Yazdi, Abdolhossein Teymourtash, Sardar As'ad and his brother Khānbābā Khān As'ad, Taghi Arani, and Ayatollah Mirza Mohammad Najafi Khorasani (Ayatollah Aghazadeh).
See also Hayato Imai, another nurse who killed patients in the same region, on death row References External links Court proceedings (in Japanese)
Taking prior convictions into account, the court determined Högel's "severe gravity of guilt", a German legal term which significantly increases the respective sentence's severity and precludes a chance of early release after serving a minimum of 15 years.
The judge, speaking directly to Mays, stated, "Several times your counsels made the point that you shouldn't be considered a monster.
The Kanagawa Prefectural Police have designated this as the Oguchi Hospital Inpatient Murder Case, while the Kanagawa Shimbun named it the Oguchi Hospital Continuous Drip Murder Case.
In April 2013, 71 other Members of Congress joined Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn in a letter condemning the media "blackout" on the Gosnell trial.
Prosecutors said Gilbert threatened the life of at least one person verbally and physically in July 1996.
She was charged with three counts of criminal damage with intent to endanger life, three counts of criminal damage being reckless as to whether life was being endangered, and one charge of theft.
The principal French association supporting the right to die immediately dropped its support for Malèvre.
The only case for which any reports were produced was that of Semika Shaw, a 22-year-old, who died at the University of Pennsylvania hospital as a result of bleeding and sepsis caused by a botched procedure by Gosnell.
In all, Angelo was suspected of poisoning at least 35 people at the hospital while working there for seven months, though the medical examiner was unable to conclusively attribute the deaths to the injections.
On April 4, 1969, after Thomas had passed out, Velma and their children left the house; when they returned, they found the house burned and Thomas dead.
Marie Fikáčková (9 September 1936 – 13 April 1961) was a Czech suspected serial killer, convicted for the killing of two newborn babies in Sušice in 1960.
In August 1979, Hansson was sentenced to closed psychiatric treatment, where he remained until 1994.
Her former lawyer Harald Schmidt was jailed for seven years for being an accomplice to grievous bodily harm and for forging the will of Alois Pichler.
Four years later, she was found guilty of murdering her 64-year-old husband Friedrick Doecker and 84-year-old female neighbour Franziska Koeberl.
The significance of the evidence that the defendants had been in the room shortly before was that the injections of Pavulon, according to the prosecution's experts, must have been administered only minutes before the victims had suffered paralysis and stopped breathing.
Holland called an ambulance and Jones was hospitalized, with doctors performing a stomach pumping to clean her system of the drug.
See also Anders Hansson, a nursing aide who committed similar murders at a nursing home in Malmö, Sweden, during roughly the same time.
However, they rebuked the claims that her schizophrenia affected her judgment, finding that she was legally sane at the time when she committed the murders.
When he suspected his lover and roommate Carl Hoeweler of infidelity, he poisoned Hoeweler's food with arsenic so he would be too ill to leave their apartment.
His charges included 16 counts of murder, 12 counts of manslaughter and one count of killing on request.
At Stepping Hill it was suspected that, due to the increased levels of insulin in the patients' bloodstreams, they quickly became hypoglycemic and three confirmed fatalities occurred.
With 22 claimed victims between 1995 and 2001, he is the most prolific serial killer in Swiss criminal history.
According to her testimony, Joyner wanted attention, as she claimed that a few days before his arrest, he had contacted her, claiming that he would soon become famous and be written about in the media.
Investigation Between March and June 2022, unusually high infant mortality rates occurred at a neonatal nursing unit in the Ramón Castillo Neonatal Hospital in Córdoba, Argentina.
Murders Petrov committed his first murder on 2 February 1999 during his thirtieth robbery, when he was interrupted by the daughter of an anaesthetised patient who returned home while he was stealing.
Her second job came as an employee of the South Texas Medical Center, where she worked in the obstetric unit.
A forensic psychological evaluation determined that Hansen suffered from histrionic personality disorder.
Harvey became a person of interest when investigators learned he had been forced to resign from the Cincinnati VA hospital after he was caught stealing body parts for occult rituals.
Sisák was convicted as an accomplice in her husband's murder and sentenced to 15 years imprisonment.
However, Mark Sochaski, an analytical chemist and bioterrorism expert, was developing a test for measuring chlorine exposure by measuring the presence of chlorotyrosine, an amino acid formed from exposure to chlorinating agents such as bleach.
In the course of one month up to fifteen children are thought to have been targeted, all between the ages of one and ten.
In January 1998, Gilbert stood trial for calling in a bomb threat to the Northampton VAMC to retaliate against coworkers and former boyfriend James Perrault (who also worked at the hospital) for their participation in the investigation.
Police selected 20 bodies to exhume out of a total of 1,050 patients who had died at Glendale Adventist during Saldivar's shifts.
His former partner said after his conviction that Norris had once hit him during an argument, bruising his head and once threw a bottle at him, which caused him to break up with Norris.
Early life Beverly Gail Allitt was born on 4 October 1968 and grew up in the village of Corby Glen near the town of Grantham.
In September 2019, he was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison after pleading guilty to killing Harvey.
Alpine Manor has since gone out of business, but the building now houses a nursing home called "Sanctuary at Saint Mary's".
The length and complexity of the trial meant that judge Mr Justice Griffith Williams took five days to read out his 571-page summing-up.
This case is considered by the prosecution to be the key piece of evidence in the case, but the accused continues to dispute it, citing outside manipulation.
The five were accused of having prior knowledge of the "Cazzaniga protocol" and intentionally hampering investigations by not reporting the suspicious deaths to the authorities.
Senior legal counsel Kenneth Brody insisted that the department had no legal obligation to monitor abortion clinics, even though it exercised such a duty until the Ridge administration, and exercised it again as soon as Gosnell became big news.
Hazzard claimed that the deceased had succumbed to undisclosed or hitherto undiagnosed illnesses such as cancer or cirrhosis.
Evidence of colchicine poisoning was given by toxicologist Alfred Swaine Taylor, the defence being that the poison could not be reliably detected after so long.
In popular culture Geen's case has been the subject of multiple television programmes: A series 1 episode of the series Nurses Who Kill aired in 2016 which focused on Geen's crimes.
On the same day, the Yokohama District Public Prosecutor's Office announces that it will take up the case.
They also conducted an investigation in the United States and Canada and learned about their suspect's history, including the conviction for a murder by poison in 1881.
The judge described Brega Massone as "cruel, malevolent and lacking the slightest sense of human pity".
Investigation An autopsy revealed high levels of arsenic in Obendoerfer's body, which aroused police suspicions.
Emergency Medical Services had been called to the clinic 30 times in April, during the previous 15 months there had only been two such calls.
Murders Hahn allegedly began poisoning and robbing elderly men in Cincinnati's German community to support her gambling habit.
Wood testified that the couple turned the selection of victims into a game, first trying to choose their victims by their initials to spell M-U-R-D-E-R.
More seriously than this, the three nuns disclosed that Bombeek had murdered Maria van der Gunst (87), an elderly woman who suffered from diabetes and was killed through an insulin overdose which induced a severe hypoglycemia attack.
Cardozo said that he had presented his resignation with the goal of helping clarify and serve justice in the case.
Paramedic Karol Banaś was sentenced to 25 years imprisonment for the "particularly cruel" (szczególnie okrutne) murder of Ludmiła Ś.
December 2001 – Ex-employee Marcella Choung gave what a grand jury would later call "a detailed written complaint" to the Pennsylvania Department of State, one which she followed up with an interview in March 2002.
As a nurse in hospital Havlíčkův Brod, 100 kilometres (62 mi) southeast of Prague, he murdered seven patients by lethal injection, and attempted to kill 10 others between May and December, 2006.
Gerolamo Kuchich, 73, from Yugoslavia and visiting Dix Hills, was injected with a non-fatal dose of Pavulon on October 11, 1987.
Graham maintained her innocence, testifying that the alleged murders were part of an elaborate "mind game" by Wood.
Maria Catherina van der Linden-Swanenburg (9 September 1839 – 11 April 1915) was a Dutch serial killer who murdered at least 27 people and was suspected of killing more than 90 people.
2015 trial and confession From January 2014 onward, the Oldenburg district attorney's office initiated another investigation into the incidents at the Delmenhorst Clinic.
These leaks stated that the terminally ill patients had neither wanted nor asked her to aid in their suicides.
Geen was formally accused of two murders and of inflicting grievous bodily harm with intent upon 16 patients.
After a deliberation lasting only 12 minutes, the jury found him guilty of all counts, and Justice Henry Hawkins sentenced him to death.
Wood also portrayed Graham as being sexually, physically and emotionally dominant in their relationship.
He attempted to rationalize this by claiming that he had done it while the patient was either restless or in pain, and that he did not know what to do as there were supposedly no doctors around, attempting to portray himself as the victim.
Despite these confessions and Feltner being questioned by police, no charges were brought due to a lack of evidence.
After this, Petrov's modus operandi changed: he began to use a lethal mix of a variety of different drugs to inject into his victims instead of an anaesthetic so that the victim would die, and so the police would think that the killer had little medical knowledge.
He claimed that his own studies had shown that up to 1 in 10 of hypoglycaemia episodes in elderly people were caused naturally.
He received his medical degree in December 1921 and relocated to Villeneuve-sur-Yonne, where he received payment for his services both from the patients and from government medical assistance funds.
However, she was suspected of murdering more than thirty of that facility's elderly residents during a two-year span, between 1976 and 1978.
In the court ruling, it was deemed that the suspect's confession was very unlikely to have been forced, and was deemed credible.
Petrov had been married twice and has three children, one from his first marriage and two from his second marriage.
The complaint was that Gosnell had been unable to complete an abortion, but then apparently failed or refused to call paramedics or other clinical emergency personnel after the patient had needed help.
After some time in this role, Bombeek was officially accused of killing three patients – due to allegations that each was too noisy at night.
In 1976, Barfield began caring for the elderly, working for Montgomery and Dollie Edwards in Lumberton.
He had a drinking problem, and his wife was disturbed by his unusual behavior and his abuse of the family dogs.
The GMC charged six doctors who signed cremation forms for Shipman's victims with misconduct on the grounds that they should have noticed the pattern between Shipman's home visits and his patients' deaths; they were all found not guilty.
On 29 March 2014, Chua was charged with the murders of Tracey Arden, Arnold Lancaster and Alfred Derek Weaver, and 31 other offences including grievous bodily harm and attempted poisoning.
On February 16, 2016, the Kanagawa Prefectural Police arrested 23-year-old Hayato Imai, a former employee, on murder charges.
In popular culture Horror writer Stephen King reportedly based Annie Wilkes, the antagonist of his novel Misery, on Jones, with many fans finding similarities between Wilkes and Jones.
Less than a month after his conviction, on 15 November, Cream was hanged at Newgate Prison by James Billington.
The Malmö Östra hospital murders were a Swedish case of serial senicide committed by the 18-year-old Anders Hansson at a hospital in Malmö between October 1978 and January 1979.
See also List of homicides in Michigan List of serial killers in the United States References Resources Buhk, T.T.
He was arrested after Malla Yassin was arrested in early 2006, and confessed to being the leader of an insurgent cell that included Louay.
Eight, including Gosnell's wife, subsequently pleaded guilty, most of whom would testify against Gosnell, and three of these pleaded guilty to third-degree murder, carrying a 20- to 40-year term.
In 2003, after Shipman had been convicted, a paper by statistician David Spiegelhalter and others found that Shipman's mortality rates had been broadly in line with national rates between 1988 and 1994, and started increasing in 1995.
Statistics only made up a minor part of the evidence against Geen, his conviction being mainly based on the direct evidence against him that the CCRC had taken note of when turning down the application, such as the murder weapon found in his pocket full of the drugs used in the attacks.
But when medical examination failed to reveal physical evidence of homicide, not entirely unusual in a smothering case, the county medical examiner nevertheless ruled the deaths homicides, basing it on the interviews Wood had given to the police.
After Majors started working at the facility, however, the rate skyrocketed to more than 100 per year, with nearly one out of every three patients admitted to the hospital dying.
Charges were only brought against Davis for four deaths due to the difficulty in proving the others.
He was committed to hospital in 1958 by his former wife, but released after less than three months of therapy.
Though Massachusetts does not have capital punishment at the state level, her crimes were committed on federal property and thus tried in federal court and subject to the federal death penalty.
They committed their crimes in the Alpine Manor nursing home, where they both worked as nurse's aides.
However, Wood's accounts and her self-portrayal as Graham's pawn were later brought into serious question by award-winning journalist Lowell Cauffiel in his 1992 true crime book, Forever and Five Days.
The state police medical team noticed several patients' heart patterns widening around the time that Majors was on duty.
Prosecutors sought the death penalty, but on April 2, 2012, Saenz was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for the five murders, plus three consecutive 20-year sentences, totalling sixty years, for aggravated assault.
These drugs could have included morphine and suxamethonium chloride as they were found in his locker with fresh and used syringes.
Norris admitted predicting the time of Hall's death to his colleague but said it was because he had a "black sense of humour".
Sentencing On 14 December 2007, Caleffi was sentenced to serve 20 years of imprisonment for five murders and two attempted murders in San Vittore Prison causing anger among the families of the victims.
The FBI obtained a warrant charging Swango with using fraudulent credentials to gain entry to a Veterans Affairs hospital.
Staff were unable to revive her (emergency medications were not used and the defibrillator was not working), and paramedics were unable to revive her after gaining access, in part because they were deceived by staff as to what had happened and the drugs and dosages responsible.
It was soon revealed that several nurses at Drake had raised concerns with administrators upon noticing a spike in deaths while Harvey was employed there, but they had been ordered to keep quiet.
She induced cardiac arrest in patients by injecting their intravenous therapy bags with lethal doses of epinephrine, commonly known as adrenaline, which is an untraceable heart stimulant.
Murders, arrest, and trial From 2017 to 2018, multiple patients experienced unexplained complications after heart surgeries while in recovery.
Despite the fact that his post was in the minor injuries unit at the hospital, he would often leave his post without authority to work in the emergency department.
In some cases, as time goes on, this behavior escalates to encompass the healthy and the easily treated.
See also Serial killers with health related professions List of serial killers by number of victims References External links BBC news entry.
Bertha Alice Williams Graham Gifford (October 30, 1871 – August 20, 1951) was a farmwife in rural Catawissa, Missouri during the early 1900s who was accused of murdering three members of the local community and suspected in 15 additional deaths.
Mays offered no motive but claimed to be taking medication for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
He served his sentence at Indiana State Prison in Michigan City, where he died of heart failure on September 24, 2017.
Since Mays' guilty pleas, the federal government has settled civil lawsuits with the families of 10 victims.
The owner of Atlantic Women's Services, Leroy Brinkley, also owned Delta Clinic of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and facilitated the hiring of staff from there for Gosnell's operation in Philadelphia.
Early life Anna Hahn was the youngest of twelve children though five of her siblings had died by the time Anna was born.
He was also suspected of four attempted murders; a 1-year-old girl on 2 February 2000, an 11-year-old girl on 31 October 2000, a four-year-old boy on 13 November 2000 and a 45-year-old man on 24 November 2000.
There, she confessed to CAMH staff about killing or attempting to kill her patients, leading to CAMH notifying the College of Nurses of Ontario (CNO) and the Toronto Police Service.
Crimes Between 2004 and 2009 Nykopp-Koski worked at a range of hospitals, care homes and patients' homes.
By 2009, it had been taken over by Union Hospital, based in Terre Haute, and renamed Union Hospital Clinton.
Toppan insisted upon her own sanity in court, claiming that she could not be insane if she knew what she was doing and knew that it was wrong, but nonetheless she was declared insane and committed.
Hahn's scandalized family sent her to the United States in 1929, while her son remained with them in Bavaria.
The hospital then claimed that he had “purposely filed a frivolous lawsuit” even though the case had “no merit.” In March 2010, the Lehigh County jury dismissed St.
According to them, there was no feasible evidence demonstrating that Hayato was responsible for the deaths, and it couldn't be ruled out that they were accidents or suicides.
Kareema Cross, who testified at the state trial she had seen at least ten babies breathe after being aborted who were then killed, pleaded guilty to federal drug charges over improper distribution of pain medicine from Gosnell's clinic.
ISBN 978-1443453325 Further reading Bloomfield, Jeffrey: "Gallows Humor: The Alleged Ripper Confession of Dr.
The following year, Barfield was convicted of seven counts of writing bad checks and sentenced to six months in prison, but was released after serving three months.
She was also known as "The Ogress of Colonia Roma," "The Female Ripper of Colonia Roma" and "The Human Crusher of Little Angels." Early life She was born in 1890 in Cerro Azul, Veracruz to a mother who was not affectionate towards her.
However, after Majors began his public relations offensive, several relatives of patients who died at VCH called the state police to report suspicious behavior on Majors's part before their loved ones' deaths.
When evidence was found of Amy sending her patients to the drugstore to buy quantities of arsenic, the police were able to arrest and convict her.
Several of the families sued the owners of Alpine Manor for hiring "dangerous and unbalanced employees".
Both defendants were recent immigrants to the United States, and the trial was marred by accusations of racism.
Their case is featured in the fifth episode, titled "Michigan Wolverines", of the fifth season of the show Deadly Sins.
Crimes The two women met at the Alpine Manor nursing home shortly after Graham had moved to Michigan from Texas.
Rebecca Leighton On 20 July 2011, GMP confirmed that they had arrested a 27-year-old nurse – Rebecca Jane Leighton, who worked at the hospital in wards A1 and A3 – in connection with the murder inquiry.
Irene Becker (born 1952) is a German nurse, and serial killer, who killed at least 5 people by administering them drugs while working at the Charité clinic.
I can only say I’m sorry for the pain I caused them and my family." In addition to her sentence, Mays was ordered to pay $172,624.96 to the victims' families, the VA Hospital, Medicare, and insurance companies.
The chief prosecutor at his trial, Olaf Jakhelln described Nesset as "an ambitious man, who wanted complete control over life and death [of his victims]." Death Nesset died at a nursing home on 2 December 2025, at the age of 89.
Fearing a possible contamination, all IV bags on the building's premises were checked, leading to the discovery that one of the bags administered to 88-year-old Nobuo Yamaki, a patient who had died two days prior had been tampered with.
In a psychiatric hospital in Fleury-les-Aubrais, Petiot was again diagnosed with various mental illnesses but was returned to the front in June 1918.
The details of the murders came almost entirely from accounts to criminal justice authorities by Wood, whose murder charges were reduced by a plea agreement so she could testify against Graham in Graham's trial for first-degree murder.
The first two victims she was charged with murdering were James Bartoe, 55, and Joseph Campbell, 83.
According to the criminal code of the canton of Geneva, the death penalty could be imposed for these crimes.
For his first application his defence team again recruited mathematical experts who stated that a statistical cluster of respiratory arrests was not unusual, but the miscarriage of justice watchdog was likewise unconvinced and rejected his application.
See also List of French serial killers List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
(Strosser, 1975) Investigators found that the nurse Filipina Narciso had been on duty in the relevant ward during every poisoning, and she was identified by a patient as the nurse who had injected something into his IV just before his breathing suddenly stopped.
A neonatal nurse, Fikáčková claimed to have killed at least ten newborns between 1957 and 1960, and was executed by hanging in 1961.
Marie Jeanneret (13 January 1836 – 4 April 1884) was a Swiss serial killer who murdered at least six people.
A few days later, Gerzsány came across Palinkás again, offering to give her a stronger poison for an additional six korona, to which the latter agreed.
See also List of serial killers in the United Kingdom List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers == References ==
Crucial evidence came from a relative of the victims, who testified that one of the defendants had been in the room and doing something to the bedside equipment just before he suddenly stopped breathing.
In 1989, he was convicted of murdering several of his patients and sentenced to 50-years-to-life in prison.
On her cremation form, Adams stated that "as far as I am aware" he had no pecuniary interest in the death, thereby avoiding the necessity of a post-mortem.
Public opinion controversy France disallows euthanasia, unlike its neighbours, Belgium and the Netherlands.
On 15 May 2008 he was found guilty by judge Valéria Caldi on four counts of murder and four counts of attempted murder.
District Judge Thomas Kleeh had recommended that Mays be placed at Federal Medical Center, Carswell, in Fort Worth, Texas, so that she could receive mental health treatment there; the BOP ultimately assigned her to Aliceville.
During the sentencing, Mays, in tears, gave a brief statement: "There’s no words I can say that can offer the families any comfort.
One man, originally slated to be the lead witness for the prosecution, referred to Perez and Narciso as "slant-eyed bitches" and asserted that there was a nationwide conspiracy of Filipino nurses to murder veterans.
Amy was once again financially secure because during their short marriage her new husband had drawn up a will which left his entire estate to her.
Barfield's execution raised some political controversies when Governor Jim Hunt, who was challenging incumbent Jesse Helms for his U.S.
The reason for the change was, in particular, a forensic and evidence-specific detail: although it was found that Hansen's medical abuse on patients did not occur "in treatment or pain relievers by mistake", the technical evidence was not strong enough to confirm the verdict.
When questioned about the cases Norris said "he seemed to have been unlucky over the last 12 months." The first three incidents occurred at Leeds General Infirmary.
When questioned by police, Nesset initially confessed to the murders of 27 patients, whom he claimed to have killed by injecting them with suxamethonium chloride, a drug to paralyze muscles.
The series is based on the book of the same name written by the Danish journalist Kristian Corfixen.
He supposedly developed secret weapons that killed Germans without leaving forensic evidence, planted booby traps all over Paris, had high-level meetings with Allied commanders, and worked with a (nonexistent) group of Spanish anti-fascists.
The same corroded suction tubing used for abortions was the only tubing available for oral airways if assistance for breathing was needed… [F]etal remains [were] haphazardly stored throughout the clinic– in bags, milk jugs, orange juice cartons, and even in cat-food containers...
Letter confessed to some of the killings but insisted that he had acted out of sympathy and a desire to end the suffering of sick patients.
On May 11, 2021, Mays was sentenced to seven consecutive life sentences, plus 20 years, during a three-hour-long hearing at the United States District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia in Clarksburg by U.S.
According to police, Louay administered anti-coagulants to pro-Coalition forces brought into the hospital for treatment, to excaberate their bleeding and causing a number of deaths.
Semi-conscious women scheduled for abortions were moaning in the waiting room or the recovery room, where they sat on dirty recliners covered with blood-stained blankets.
Career Following his doctoral studies, Fotiadis held research positions at the University of Minnesota, the RWTH Aachen University in Germany, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
In 1999, he won the William Allan Award, the highest honor of the American Society of Human Genetics.
Joseph Stephen Alpert (born 1942 in Connecticut) is an American cardiologist and professor of medicine at the University of Arizona Sarver Heart Center.
He traveled widely in Africa and the Caribbean and held academic appointments at the University of Ibaban, Ibadan, Nigeria, and the University of the West Indies in Kingston, Jamaica.
He returned to England with photographs of the camp that he would keep in his desk drawer as a reminder.
Shikora has also worked on advisory boards for several medical companies including Medtronic and EnteroMedics.
Gillenwater with the support of Hovey Dabney, was responsible for the creation of University of Virginia Health Sciences Foundation, with a significant institutional impact enabling innovation and discovery for clinical practitioners and scientists.
His team pioneered consumer engagement in research by including drug users on research advisory panels and as fieldworkers.
Jennie McCowen (June 15, 1845 – July 28, 1924) was an American physician, writer, and medical journal editor.
Early life and education Brown was born in Grimsby, England and attended Wintringham Grammar School.
One of the leading features of that laboratory was the amount of original work accomplished in structural botany by both teacher and pupils.
5,308,833, 8,404,215, 8,642,012, 9,095,559, 13,610,580,) and international patients with multiple patents pending.
Turner read a paper on “Physical Culture,” before the teachers' institute, February 21, 1885; “Hygiene of Bathing,” Chautauqua assembly, June 24, 1890; “Climacteric Period,” “Epileptic Mania,” “The Tongue in Health and Disease,” and “Mineral Acids,” before the Jasper County Medical Society, 1887–89.
Neufeld remained on the Institute staff as an "honorary member" (Ehrenmitglied) and continued to publish.
After medical training at St George's Hospital he qualified MRCS in 1886 and graduated MB BChir from the University of Cambridge in 1887.
A year before he died, he was interviewed by Todd Dufresne, who found Wortis at age 87 "active, lucid, and intellectually engaging".
S2CID 25114211.{{cite journal}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) Bray GA, Popkin BM (2013).
Awards and honors When the New England Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons established the Robert M.
In the United Kingdom, the Health Protection Agency attributed a large measles outbreak in 2008 and 2009 to a concurrent drop in the number of children receiving the MMR vaccine.
Career When Cotton was recruited by Boston University to serve as the first Assistant Provost for Clinical Research and Director of the Office of Clinical Research in 1998, she was recruited from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School.
He is also a Boyd Professor emeritus at the Pennington Center, and a professor of medicine emeritus at the Louisiana State University Medical Center.
He co-edited the Medical Reporter, a journal published by the Chester County Medical Society from 1863 to 1866.
On his graduation from Harvard, in 1872, his thesis on "Anaesthetics" gained him the Boylston Prize.
Leung became the interim director of the School of Public Health, after the former director, Keiji Fukuda, retired in 2021.
Gerald Horner matriculated in October 1899 at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, graduating there B.A.
Previously, she was a professor of pediatrics and immunology and surgery at Stanford University and the medical director of the Pediatric Kidney Transplant Program.
Career In September 1877, she was engaged as instructor in microscopic botany, and placed in charge of a botanical laboratory, which position she held for twelve years.
In 1970, Bray became the director of the Clinical Research Center at the Harbor–UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA.
Her doctoral research on patient-driven rehabilitation following a stroke developed an intervention designed especially for Māori and Pasifika.
He also led the United States Preventive Services Task Force, the National Guideline Clearinghouse, and became an assistant Surgeon General.
In March 2016, he was named as the founding national director of the Integrative Health Coordinating Center at the Veterans Health Administration.
In 2025, she received the Professional Achievement Award from the Alumni Board of the University of Chicago in recognition of her leadership and contributions to academic medicine.
Born in Brooklyn, New York, he was a board-certified anatomic, clinical and forensic pathologist, and a private forensic pathology consultant.
Robert James Nicholl Streeten (born 28 June 1800, London – 10 May 1849, Worcester) was a British physician and medical editor and secretary of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association.
Education He obtained his M.B.B.S degree in 1940; he also obtained an M.D (Pathology) in 1945 from the Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam.
On her paternal grandfather's side, she is a great great great grand daughter of Joseph Jackson Lister, pioneer of the compound microscope and father of Joseph Lister, 1st Baron Lister.
In 1998 he wrote: There are not two kinds of medicine, one conventional and the other unconventional, that can be practiced jointly in a new kind of "integrative medicine." Nor...are there two kinds of thinking, or two ways to find out which treatments work and which do not.
In 2020, the year after he was appointed full professor, he was senior author on the team that published their results on an imaging technique that uses gallium-labelled prostate specific membrane antigen in a PET/CT scanner (PSMA PET-CT), for detecting the early spread of prostate cancer.
Flinn Professor of Medicine and Chair of the Department of Medicine at the University of Arizona College of Medicine.
Delafresnay (dir.) Brain mechanisms and consciousness, a symposium, Springfield, 1954 Neurotic Distortion of the Creative Process, New York : Noonday Press, 1958 « L'hypnotisme.
Contributions to surgery Muguti contributed to the establishment of Zimbabwe's training pathway in plastic and reconstructive surgery.
Dritte, völlig umgearbeitete Auflage [Microorganisms : With special reference to the etiology of infectious diseases.
Nemiah was born on November 30, 1918, in Cheshire, Connecticut, and later on moved with his family to Hanover, New Hampshire, when he was young.
Hubbard Award (National Board of Medical Examiners, US) (2013) References External links Kevin Eva's publications
In the late 1970s, assisting Michael Lockwood who introduced him to Beauchamp and Childress's principles of medical ethics, Gillon taught on the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries' course, DPMSA, on philosophical medical ethics, possibly the first such course in the UK.
Landis served as president of the American Society for Clinical Investigation in 1942 and as president of the American Physiological Society in 1952.
He gained a Bachelor of Science degree in Endocrinology from the Middlesex Hospital Medical School, University of London in 1981.
He is also a professor at the Ochsner Clinical School of the University of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia, and the editor-in-chief of the medical journal Progress in Cardiovascular Diseases.
She became a senior lecturer at the university in 2004, the same year that she received a Medical Research Council clinical fellowship.
Instead he returned home, hoping that it was not caused by SARS and that he could recover without treatment.
He was a book collector and donated more than 200 historical medical books to the University of Chicago Library.
Horner retired in 1946 at age sixty-five and was succeeded as editor-in-chief by Hugh Clegg, CBE, FRCP.
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: Weaver, James Baird (1912).
She has advocated for people to consider gut microbes as a "human microbial organ." Selected publications Gut microbiota: married to our gut microbiota Nature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology.
He is the medical director of cardiac rehabilitation and preventive cardiology at the John Ochsner Heart and Vascular Institute in New Orleans, Louisiana.
Eugenics An outspoken advocate for genetics research to identify and curtail severe inherited diseases and birth defects, Herndon provided genetics counseling to the North Carolina government's eugenics sterilization program that later prompted the governor of North Carolina to apologize for it.
She qualified as a doctor in 1985 at the University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, having studied at Trinity College, Cambridge.
In 1995, he published a study that found that women had the best chance of conceiving a child if they had sex on the day of ovulation, with the odds of conception falling sharply thereafter.
Selected publications Christakis, Dimitri A.; Zimmerman, Frederick J.; DiGiuseppe, David L.; McCarty, Carolyn A.
Professor of Surgery; Director of Pediatric Cardiac Surgery; and Director of The Dana and Albert "Cubby" Broccoli Center for Aortic Diseases , at the Johns Hopkins Hospital, he returned to Hopkins in 2023.
He began working in the field of endocrinology in 1930, and after completing a doctoral thesis in 1933, he became head of the Hormone Department of Statens Serum Institut, a medical research institute.
He expressed repeated dissatisfaction with its operations and public statements, and resigned in 1960.
Cynthia Louise Sears is an American infectious disease physician-scientist specializing in food borne and intestinal infections.
Lustberg is also an associate editor for the peer-reviewed medical journal covering oncology nursing with respect to cancer survivors called Journal of Cancer Survivorship.
Education Lao was first trained in acupuncture at the Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
Research and activism Poland is known for researching the immunogenetics of responses to certain vaccines, including smallpox vaccines.
The Ethics of the Medical Internet Primary source, peer reviewed, exclusively electronic medical journals.
Laura Weiss Roberts (born 1960) is an American psychiatrist and bioethicist who is the Katharine Dexter McCormick and Stanley McCormick Memorial Professor and chair of the department of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stanford University School of Medicine.
He serves as the Executive Director at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rewari and (AIIMS) Jammu.
For most of Herndon's academic career, from 1966 to 1989, he was senior associate dean for research and development at the medical school.
Hamburger received international attention in 1952 after treating Christine Jorgensen, an American transgender woman who wanted a male-to-female sex reassignment.
During Simmons' 25-year term as editor-in-chief and general secretary, the number of JAMA subscribers increased from 1,000 to 80,000.
In 2017-2018, Brown served as the 90th President, and is the current Chief Scientific Officer, of the American Physiological Society.
He is a member of the MGH Executive Committee on Research (ECOR), the central body for research governance at MGH.
Lawrence Oglethorpe Gostin (born October 19, 1949) is an American law professor at Georgetown University Law Center who specializes in global health law as well as the law of public health and human rights.
Superintendent at Butler Hospital In 1899, he accepted the post of Superintendent of the private Butler Hospital in Providence, Rhode Island where he remained until his retirement in 1921.
He returned to the United States and worked as a professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania.
Current work focuses on developing the research needed to advance an endgame for the tobacco epidemic.
She has said that she was impressed by how quickly Singapore responded to SARS-CoV-2, which was likely informed by their experiences with the SARS epidemic years before.
In 2023 she was a visiting researcher at The Brocher Foundation in Switzerland to examine the unintended harms of pandemic publishing, how covid-19 struck a blow to women's expertise, and equity for women in science.
Based on observations of hundreds of patients in Guangdong, Zhong was determined to advocate for the moderate usage of cortisone.
Borel had founded an aid organization called Secours Médical Français ("French Medical Relief") in response to the 1970 Bhola cyclone.
“Behind the mugshot grin: uses of madness-talk in reports of Loughner’s mass killing." Journal of Communication Inquiry 37, no.
Subsequent research in his laboratory demonstrated that FMRP is involved in the regulation of local protein synthesis at the synapse and that in the absence of FMRP, the FMRP-associated mRNAs are over translated, in an activity-dependent manner.
He has contributed key reviews on the “dark side of addiction” in very prominent journals in the field, including Annual Review of Psychology, Nature, Neuron, and Neuropsychopharmacology, and Nature Reviews Drug Discovery.
Among his chief contributions to the medical literature are his "Principles and Practice of Medicine", "Medical Education and Reform", "Verdict of Science Concerning the Effects of Alcohol on Man", and "Clinical Lectures".
His clinical, surgical and scientific main interest centered on hearing, inflammatory ear diseases, cholesteatoma, the facial nerve, equilibrium, and microsurgery of the middle ear.
William Harcourt Ranking (1814 – 4 June 1867) was an English physician, medical editor, and photographer.
“Circulating Urokinase Receptor as a Cause of Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis.” Nature Medicine, vol.
Koob's contributions include scholarly treatises on the conceptual framework and theoretical bases for understanding the neurobiology of drug addiction.
Northway was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 2016 Birthday Honours for services to learning disability nursing.
During the 2002–2004 SARS outbreak, she worked with Postdoctoral fellow Ted Cohen to develop a mathematical model that proved that a number of multidrug-resistant strains of tuberculosis can easily reproduce and spread.
Turpin served one 5-year term on the executive committee of the World Federation of Orthodontists (2010–2015).
He had a sharp eye for the pompous or ridiculous and was encouraged by Thomas Wakley, who had founded the journal in 1823.
Personal life Adler was married to Dame Karen Dunnell from 1979 to 1994, and subsequently to Baroness Margaret Jay from 1994 onwards.
Carl Georg Friedrich Wilhelm Flügge (12 September 1847 – 10 December 1923) was a German bacteriologist and hygienist.
At the conclusion of the 2016–17 academic year, Katz and Jonathan Edmondson were appointed Distinguished Research Professorship for their "outstanding contributions to the University through research".
Honors, awards and positions Rothman received the American Public Health Association’s Abraham Lilienfeld Award for 2002, recognizing excellence in the teaching of epidemiology during the course of a career.
Kligler has researched the effectiveness of multiple alternative medicine treatments, including yoga and acupuncture.
He is an honorary member of the Hungarian Association of Rheumatology, Slovenian National Academy of Sciences and the Royal College of Physicians (UK).
Research Malone is known for researching the activities of the tobacco industry with respect to public health, as well as the social construction of tobacco use.
Romeyn Beck's noted work on medical jurisprudence, and became the standard work on infanticide in the English language.
He was appointed a faculty member at McGill in 1975, and was credited with bringing its Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics to "new, more collegial premises".
Subsequent work involved inherited blood disorders, which he conducted at Walter Reed Army Medical Center 1951 to 1953 during service in the U.S.
She founded the institute for ethics and was named the Jack and Donna Rust Professor of Biomedical Ethics.
Because of this, he was investigated by the United States Senate Subcommittee on Internal Security in 1953.
Her educational opportunities were so limited that up to the age of 21, she had attended school for only two and half years.
He was accused of "glibly glossing over the pain" of cancer, to quote Michael Broderick, one of the 173 respondents on thebmj.com.
Personal life In August 1894, Kinney was confined to the Massachusetts General Hospital for more than three weeks after a critical operation.
Later, Emami and Igor Karp received a research grant to study the link between oral health and colorectal cancer.
He is the Distinguished Professor of Pharmacology and Medicine and one of the co-directors of the UCSD Medical Scientist (MD/PhD) Training Program.
She was one of two founding editors-in-chief of Schizophrenia Research, which she founded with Henry Nasrallah in 1988.
He is recipient of the Russell and Mary Scott Award by the American Urological Association, the Annual Chicago Urological Society, the Charles C.
He serves as Professor of Neurology and Associate Dean at the University of California, San Francisco, Chief of Staff at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of the American Heart Association.
In October 2019, The Board of Directors of the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) announced Menias will be the next editor of RadioGraphics beginning in January 2021.
Cotton also earned a MPH from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health (1986) and a degree in Biology from Brandeis University.
"Addresses Delivered at the Opening of the Pathological Laboratory of the Rhode Island Hospital, 10 May 1900," The Providence Medical Journal (1900): 83-85.
He was a lecturer in the history department of the University of Chicago from 1967 until near the end of the 1980s.
He was then appointed house physician to Hammersmith Hospital, where he worked under Graham Bull on electrolyte metabolism and prototype dialysis machines.
In 2018 he revealed in the Medical Journal of Australia , his findings that three-quarters of men with low-grade prostate cancer who should have been getting regular checks, did not comply with surveillance recommendations.
Born in Cattaraugus, New York, Farrar studied at Allegheny College and Harvard before earning his M.D.
John Angus Walker-Smith (born 1 December 1936) is an Australian-born British emeritus professor of paediatric gastroenterology, formerly at the Royal Free Hospital.
After graduating from university in 1960, Zhong Nanshan had few opportunities to participate in clinical medicine.
Simon Fenton Chapman, AO (born 14 December 1951) is an Australian academic and tobacco control activist.
Between 1957 and 1966 he attended Xavier College, and then studied at Newman College, a residential college of the University of Melbourne.
Fiona Godlee (born August 4, 1961) was editor in chief of The British Medical Journal from March 2005 until 31 December 2021; she was the first female editor appointed in the journal's history.
She is an investigator at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and an expert in immunology and the immunotherapy of both ovarian and breast cancers.
He became a Professor and Director of Educational Research and Scholarship in the UBC Faculty of Medicine in 2010, and is Associate Director and Scientist in the Centre for Health Education Scholarship (CHES).
After the Civil War Logan published works on a variety of subjects - sanitary conditions, climatology, and infectious disease.
Corso is the current president of the European Cancer Prevention Organization and the editor-in-chief of the European Journal of Cancer Prevention.
Mann, Jonathan M.; Gostin, Lawrence; Gruskin, Sofia; Brennan, Troyen; Lazzarini, Zita; Fineberg, Harvey V.
Depressed and disenchanted with her old school when she returned to Australia, she transferred to Narrabundah College in Canberra, where she completed Years 11 and 12.
He has been a member of the American Society for Clinical Investigation since 1998, as well as an elected Fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Shikora completed both his surgical residency and a fellowship in hyperalimentation at the New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts.
In 1939 he was nominated for the Goethe-Medaille für Kunst und Wissenschaft for his scientific achievements, but did not receive the honour until Feb.
Life Pertseva completed a Doctor of Sciences in Medicine with honors at the Dnipro State Medical University in 1975.
They reached this conclusion after analyzing the hospital records of 3,419 children in the United States and Canada from 2000 through 2009 to find that more children than expected survived after prolonged CPR.
He is an adjunct/visiting professor at the Stanford University School of Medicine, participating in collaborative global surgery projects and training programs.
She was a co-founder of both the Schizophrenia International Research Society and the International Society of Psychiatric Genetics, and went on to serve as secretary of both organizations.
Since late 2013, he has been the director of the University of Hong Kong's School of Chinese Medicine, He has also held the Vivian Taam Wong Professorship in Integrative Medicine at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) since 2014.
From 1865 to 1869 he represented the 5th Senate District (Chester, Delaware, and Montgomery counties).
Brody was chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and Dean for Social and Behavioral Studies at the University of Maryland.
He was educated at Cornell University and the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University.
She was a member of the European Association of Science Editors' Gender Policy Committee and the peer review committee in 2017.
Pockets of measles – which can be fatal —have also cropped up in Canada and the United States as a result of parents' decision not to vaccinate.
The eldest of eight (or perhaps nine) children of John Mitchell Streeten and Maria Streeten (née Crane), Robert J.
He then continued his research career as a postdoctoral researcher, first at Temple University and then at Thomas Jefferson University.
He became an assistant professor at Yale in 1982, founding the Developmental Disability Clinic in the same year.
Models developed by Nelson's research group have improved the understanding of mechanisms of this disease, including a role for RNA-binding functions such as TDP-43 and alterations in 5-Hydroxymethylcytosine.
Education Poland received his BA in biology from Illinois Wesleyan University in 1977 where he was a member of Sigma Pi fraternity.
The following year he moved to Australia and took up a consultant post at the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre.
He attended the High School in Edinburgh and then studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh graduating with an MD in 1837, having won the Harveian Prize in 1836 and a gold medal in 1837 for his thesis on the presence of air (oxygen) in the organs of circulation.
He was the oldest of five siblings born to a middle-class Italian family and was the first in his family to go to medical school.
Lundberg's article coincided with President Clinton's impeachment trial during which the question of whether oral sex constitutes “sexual relations” was an issue.
In February 2012, he became editor in chief of Archives of Disease in Childhood, a peer-reviewed paediatric medical journal.
He worked with Koch on studies of tuberculosis and went to Rhodesia with Koch in 1903 to study rinderpest.
At the Savile Club he associated particularly with Edmund Gosse and William Hunt, the historian, and was on dining terms with the leaders of the "æsthetic" literary movement.
Altman was also editor in chief of Trials, a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical Society.
Gender atypicality and sexual development among lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth: prevalence, sex differences, and parental responses.
After graduating, Legido-Quigley started a master's course in social policy at the University of Edinburgh.
This debate also pits traditional individual-based medical ethicists against the utilitarian perspective of the modern bioethics movement.
From 1968 to 1973 he was a secretary to the faculty of medicine, and from 1968 to 1985 he was Psychiatrist-in-Chief at the Beth Israel Hospital.
At the request of the chair of the department, Motulsky established the Division of Medical Genetics in 1957.
After a stage production in Chicago in 1977, John Malkovich encouraged him to join the Steppenwolf Theatre.
Research Spitzer was noted for his research into the potential adverse effects of oral contraceptives.
In 2016, Ahima joined Johns Hopkins University as a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor of Diabetes with appointments in the School of Medicine, School of Nursing, and Bloomberg School of Public Health.
They were from 1935 to 1936 in Madrid, where he studied silver-staining techniques and neuroanatomy under the supervision of Pío del Río-Hortega.
Chenzhong Li (Chinese: 李晨钟) is a Chinese-born Canadian & American biomedical engineer, chemist, inventor, professor, and journal editor.
Education and career Kamhawi received her PhD in Medical Entomology the Salford University in Manchester, England, in 1990, before returning to Jordan to work at Yarmouk University, initially as an assistant professor before becoming an associate professor.
The same year, G20 Health Ministers cited CARB-X as playing a critical role in accelerating antimicrobial R&D and access.
Climate change and health professionals A few days after the worldwide mobilisation promoted by the activist movement Extinction Rebellion, Horton asserted in a video that health professionals should involve themselves directly.
As part of a popular TEDx talk, Christakis spoke regarding the newborn brain and media exposure on children.
He was a researcher at the University of California, San Francisco and the Buck Institute for Age Research.
(April 27, 1941 – June 21, 2018) was an American philosopher, holding doctorates in both philosophy from the University of Texas at Austin and medicine from Tulane University.
She gave birth to their son, Henry William Kennedy Markham, on 26 July 1848 and died on 19 August 1848.
Career Disis is an oncologist and the director of the University of Washington's Cancer Vaccine Institute, Center for Translational Medicine in Women's Health and its Institute of Translational Health Science.
While working as a breast medical oncologist at The James Cancer Hospital in 2011, Lustberg was involved in a clinical trial aimed at finding a better way to assess early cardiac injury.
He established the Center for Neurovirology and Neurodegenerative Disorders at UNMC in 1997, which evolved into UNMC's current Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience in 2004.
He tested the prenatal androgens and found that children later diagnosed as autistic were exposed to elevated levels of prenatal testosterone, and the Δ4 sex steroid precursors to prenatal testosterone.
In 1847, he moved to Putney, London and founded both the London Medical Journal and the Associated Medical Journal.
On May 27, 1950 the Journal of the American Medical Association published the resulting scientific report.
In 2014 he became the director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and continues to hold that position.
{{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) Methods of publishing: the cost of production.
Ahima's research focuses on central and peripheral actions of adipocyte hormones in energy homeostasis, and glucose and lipid metabolism.
He joined the Department of Computer Science at the University of Ioannina as a lecturer in 1995, becoming an assistant professor in 1999 and associate professor in 2002.
This interest led him to co-found the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN) in 2019 with colleagues including Dr Lara Fortunato, Professor Christopher Chambers, Professor Dorothy Bishop, and Professor Malcolm Macleod.
doi:10.1093/jhmas/XXXIV.2.163 Bio, 19th-Century Psychiatrists of Note, www.nlm.nih.gov Obituary, Br Med J.
Clark is committed to gender equality in science, whether that is in medical trials, research groups or scientific publishing.
Career Upon completing his formal education, Nadkarni was offered the director's job at Christiana Hospital's pediatric intensive care unit.
Steers was President of the University of Virginia physician’s practice plan from 2002-2009, and was a member of the Health System Strategic Planning and Executive Committees.
Ronald Melzack, Katz interacted with amputees experiencing phantom pains, which he dubbed "somatosensory pain memories." This sparked his interest in pain research.
Sheen Award by the American College of Surgeons for her advancements in the study and science of medicine.
Poland has also been president of the Armed Forces Epidemiological Board and worked for over ten years as a consultant to the department.
Education and career Professor Bomanji obtained a graduate degree (MBBS) from the University of Punjab (Pakistan) in 1980, and a PhD in 1987.
He became chairman of medicine at University of Virginia School of Medicine in 1939, and professor of physiology at Harvard Medical School in 1943.
Majerus said that the Vietnam War had pushed him toward a career in research; after his residency, he had the choice between going to war as a physician or working for the government in his research position.
Robert Fortescue Fox (1858–1940) was a British physician, surgeon, and one of the founders of physical medicine and rehabilitation.
Publications by Sachs concerning Tay–Sachs disease "On arrested cerebral development, with special reference to its cortical pathology", in: – Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease, Chicago, 1887; 14: 541–553.
From May 1912 to late 1915, Cadbury was the editor of The Chinese Medical Journal (Zhonghua yi bao), a bi-monthly journal consisting of scientific papers, articles on government policy, reports, and more.
In 2001 Volberding left the SF General Hospital to become chief medical officer at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, at which time he also became vice chairman of the department of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF).
Miller travelled to London to complain to the Lords Proprietors, the Commissioners of Customs, and the Privy Council about the events that had happened.
He also researched grasses and the local flora of Bath, and was elected as one of the first associates of the Linnean Society.
Explanatory notes References Citations Bibliography External links En no Ozunu – History of Japan Database
In many cases, the species to be moved had already been reclassified numerous times with several proposed names but Kuntze appears to have disregarded these classifications and simply reclassified the basionym.
Kirkton records that even in Dumfries, at the beginning of the Pentlands Rising, the insurgents drank the king's health and M'Crie, over about 8 pages, argues repeatedly that although they rose in arms, they were not rebels.
His father's patent granted the reversion of the office to Chase himself, and after his father's death in 1690, Chase became court apothecary to William III in June 1690, at an annual salary of £115, with an annual allowance of £127 and lodgings in Whitehall.
Miller was later jailed for blasphemy, treason, and loathing towards the Lords Proprietors, although the Virginia Council acquitted him in May 1676.
During the 1650s William Rosewell was reappointed an officer of the London Trained Bands, living on his pay and possibly acting as a Royalist spy.
Honours 1776 accommodation into Leopoldina Publications Chemische Versuche über die alkalischen Salze.
took over his father's apothecary, while Samuel became a physician and for thirty years was a professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania.
Emily was brought up as a Quaker, became Protestant and afterwards joined the sect of Selina Hastings, Countess of Huntingdon.
In 1793 he was charged with sedition for publishing a pamphlet championing the Rights of Man, but fled Scotland prior to his trial, travelling first to Belfast, and then in 1795 to the United States.
On qualifying, he moved to Bath, where he practised is profession from premises in Trim Street with partner Thomas West.
His father, John Spreul, merchant in Paisley, was fined by Middleton, although he had suffered for his refusing the tender; he paid the one half of his fine, and being prosecuted for the other, or rather his refusing the declaration, he was forced, with many other worthy persons, to abscond.
Levet, a practitioner in physic." After Levet died, Johnson posted notice of his death in the London newspapers, hoping to find the Yorkshire heirs to the meager estate Levet left behind.
He obtained a lease from the Crown from 22 June 1580 for six acres of land and all tithes of grain from the town and fields of Cleobury Mortimer for twenty-one years; these had been possessions of the dissolved Wigmore Priory, employed for the maintenance of a sexton for the parish church.
Biography He was a direct descendant of company founder Friedrich Jacob Merck, who had purchased the Engel-Apotheke (Angel Pharmacy) in Darmstadt in 1668.
Richard Robert Graham (8 January 1735 – 31 May 1816) was apothecary to the Chelsea College Hospital.
Career Early years Miller, originally a merchant and apothecary in Ireland, emigrated to North Carolina and settled in Albemarle County in 1673, where he secured leadership of the proprietary political faction.
He was probably related to "Jhone Clavie" or "Clavye" (died 1586), a candlemaker who supported Mary, Queen of Scots in the Marian Civil War.
After the trial, he travelled with Thomas Eastchurch to London, England, where they convinced the Lords Proprietors that Eastchurch should govern Albemarle County.
Fox was doctor to a merchant ship's Captain, Christopher Buckingham, and to his wife, Thorazine, who lived in Flushing.
Say was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the Tenth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Joseph Clay.
The conflict came to a head at the 2nd International Botanical Congress in 1905, two years before Kuntze's death.
From 1838 until 1841 he ran a candle factory and became a member of the town council of Darmstadt in 1828.
He was the owner of the first drugstore in Buenos Aires, his establishment was known as "Botica del Colegio", located in the streets Santísima Trinidad y San Carlos (current Bolívar and Alsina) Monserrat, was founded by his uncle Francisco Marull in 1777.
Houghton also published in 1693 a sixpenny sheet, containing An Account of the Acres and Houses, with the proportional tax … of each county in England and Wales (reprinted in Somers Tracts, ed.
The Political Graveyard Plan of Say Burial Ground Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine, at 3rd and Arch Streets in Philadelphia Watercolor of grave marker
At the same time he sent medicines according to a recipe provided by Master William Baillie, and sent fine green ginger and citron comfits to the queen.
The Oxford Dictionary of National Biography states that William Sole was born in 1741 in Little Thetford, Cambridgeshire, However, evidence suggest that he was born in 1739 and Baptised on 28 September in Witchford, Cambridgeshire.
In 1798, he published Menthae Britannicae, and this was the publication that he became most known for.
In any case, "Jane, wife of Oliver Mathews, gent" was buried on 9 January 1611 at Bishop's Castle, with most sources assuming this to be his first wife, Jane née Broughton.
Major William Rosewell (c.1606 – c.1680) (also Rowswell or Rousewell), was a London apothecary, a Royalist soldier, apothecary to Queen Catherine (wife of Charles II), and Master of the Worshipful Company of Apothecaries (1661–62).
'En the ascetic'), En no Ubasoku (役優婆塞, "En the Layman") , or also under the full name En no Kimi Ozunu, where Kimi (君) is his kabane or titular name.
He had suffered from gout since 1775, and the condition attacked his unwounded leg to the point where he was unable to go to sea.
In 1879 he was concerned about the hunting of hares in Germany as they had suffered from bad climatic conditions leading to the death of many in the previous two seasons.
Luca Landucci (1436–1516) was an Italian apothecary from Florence, best known as the writer of a diary which later became an important primary source about the history of Florence.
1831: William Walker 24 July 1830 – 1858: Charles Craddock 8 August 1837 – 1862: John Nussey (reappointed) 23 February 1858 – 1 August 1879: Claudius Francis du Pasquier 23 July 1874: – 6 May 1910: Francis Laking vacant under George V?
Opus posthumum, latinitate donatum, notisque & observationibus illustratum, à Frederico Ruyschio & Francisco Kiggelario.
The physician and writer Johann Udalric Rumler may have been his brother, and their similar names may lead to confusion.
He influenced English writers such as Geoffrey Chaucer, John Milton, and Alfred Tennyson, among many others.
He received a doctorate in 1647 and became a physician in Venice while also making studies on chemicals such as silica, and the effect of soap on oils.
Shortly afterwards, the corporation having resolved to farm the revenues of the city to a certain Alderman, Lucas denounced the affair as a job, and the council in which the resolution had been passed as packed.
Biography Benjamin Say was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to Thomas (1709–1796) and Rebekah Atkinson Budd Say (1716–1795), He married Ann Bartram Bonsall (1759–1793) on Oct.
This indicates that women were not given credit for their work as apothecaries, although they had a giant role in these shops.
The proposal was rejected by the Aldermen, and its rejection led to a renewal of the old quarrel between them and the commons, and to fresh manifestations of public sympathy with Lucas.
Why bases for neutral salts were called bases The modern meaning of the word "base" and its general introduction into the chemical vocabulary are usually attributed to Rouelle, who used the term "Base" in a memoir on salts written in 1754 (see The Origin of the Term "Base" by William B.
He was appointed an apothecary to Charles II in 1684, and was made Apothecary-General to the Army and Military Hospitals in Ireland under William III and Mary II in 1689.
Joseph Barsalou built on his traditional knowledge of herbs with an introduction to medicine and philosophy reading Galen, Aristotle and Pythagoras.
Although she claimed early in the text to be unlearned and to focus on "innate" reasoning, she exhibits her understanding of important writers such as Galen and Aristotle and suggest well-crafted reasons to deviate from their long accepted teachings.
The two often supped together, and despite their different backgrounds seemed to enjoy each other's company.
The descriptions for plates 1-73 were provided by Johann Georg Nicolaus Dieterichs (1681–1737), for plates 76-525 by Ludwig Michael Dieterichs (1716–1769) and Ambrosius Karl Bieler.
Thomas Miller (died in October 1685) was the acting colonial governor of North Carolina for about six months in 1677 during the absence of the official governor Thomas Eastchurch.
The most important of his works, Versuch einer Naturgeschichte von Liefland, is one of the earliest descriptions of the nature of Livonia.
John William Burns says in his preface that "Bass John took an active part in the politics of his day, and was one of the largest subscribers to the Darien Scheme", investing 1000 pounds.
His early training was at his father's pharmacy and in 1690 he went to Copenhagen to study under the pharmacist J.G.
Library His house was in Little Britain, London, near St Bartholomew's Hospital, and it contained a major library.
[7] Alexander Kraft: On Two Letters from Caspar Neumann to John Woodward Revealing the Secret Method for Preparation of Prussian Blue.[8] German Wikipedia article on Caspar Neumann: de:Caspar Neumann == References ==
He gave with Joseph Hurlock free courses of lectures on materia medica at their hall to the apprentices and students, which resulted in the regular establishment of lectures by the society.
Parkinson's life is commemorated with a stone tablet inside the church of St Leonard's, Shoreditch, where he was a member of the congregation; the exact site of his grave is not known and his body may lie in the crypt or in the churchyard.
He assigned chemical symbols to the seven metals corresponding to the known celestial bodies at the time, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, and Moon respectively.
He rewarded a "stranger of Perpignan that shewed quinta essentia" in January 1499, and employed a "multiplier" to make gold in the Tower of London.
Britain was involved in the Seven Years' War and they were asking him not to print a list of ships sailing from the port.
The glass bottles, jars, and pots that line the shelves are the same ones that had been taken by Coyne in 1922.
Besler established a pharmacy, Zum Marienbild, at Nuremberg's Hay Market in 1589, and developed his own botanical garden and collection of specimens, for which he became well known.
Spreul absented, and was with several other persons denounced and intercommuned, though nothing was laid to their charge but mere nonconformity.
at Cambridge in 1678, having received a Lambeth degree earlier in the same year from William Sancroft, Archbishop of Canterbury.
Biography Olcott was trained as an apothecary, which was the precursor of the modern pharmacist profession.
Career He served as director and controller of the public schools in Philadelphia from 1860 to 1869.
It was in the name of this love that Dante left his imprint on the dolce stil nuovo ("sweet new style", a term that Dante himself coined), and he would join other contemporary poets and writers in exploring never-before-emphasized aspects of love.
The epithet megapolitania here refers to Mecklenburg, which was then often referred to by the Greek equivalent megapolis.
He acknowledged the authorship, was voted guilty, and committed to Newgate Prison, where he remained until 21 June, when the House of Commons rose.
This prompted Fewster to wonder whether cowpox might protect against smallpox, a notion of which he was previously unaware.
The Temple Coffee House Botany Club, an informal group set up around 1689 by several people, including Dr Hans Sloane, was a place of botanical discussion.
He edited two exsiccatae: Musci frondosi exsiccati (1804–1810) and Systematisch-tabellarische Sammlung von Laubmoosen (1808).
Otto Christian Blandow (5 August 1778, Waren – 15 March 1810, Waren) was a German apothecary and botanist, specializing in the field of bryology.
In popular culture In Kyoto's Gion Festival, one of the yamaboko floats (En no Gyoja Yama) is dedicated to En no Gyoja.
Because Phytanthoza iconographia was to become Ehret's first published work, he set about the project with great enthusiasm.
He changed the names of nearly 30000 taxa in his three-volume treatise, 2,226 page total, Revisio Generum Plantarum (1891-1898).
The opinion was that of Boerhaave, Cheyne, and others, that the development of smallpox after exposure to infection could be checked by a timely use of the æthiops mineral.
Spreull, John, 1646-1722 An Accompt Current betwixt Scotland and England balanced; together with an Essay of a Scheme of the Product of Scotland, as also a View of the several Products of the Ports or Nations we trade to.
The new bridge, situated next to the Museum of Science, is still referred to as Craigie's Bridge by many.
Over the next two decades nine bills dealing with adulteration were introduced into the House of Commons by the members for Birmingham, under Postgate's influence; all met with strenuous opposition from retailers.
Although Ziz's original herbarium perished in 1944, his Findbuch remains a primary source for the early 19th‑century flora of Hesse.
Hogarth produced The Graham Children, one of his most successful conversation pieces (an informal group portrait of family or friends, often engaged in conversation or some other kind of activity).
As a result of a clerical error in the parish records, his remains were removed to an unmarked mass grave during church renovations a century later.
His elder brother John Drummond 10th of Lennoch and 3rd of Megginch was Member of Parliament for Perthshire.
He was appointed on 18 December 1626 to supply "perfumes, sweet powders, and other odoriferous things" to Henrietta Maria.
John Clavie or Clavee (died 1607) was a Scottish apothecary who worked for James VI and I and the royal family.
A copy, however, came into Lucas's possession, and finding that it told more against than for the government he immediately republished it, with a sarcastic introduction and commentary.
Miller was nominated because after leaving London and embarking again to North Carolina together with Eastchurch, they had to stop temporarily at Nevis Island in the Caribbean.
He died in Jermyn Street from paralysis on 23 May 1793, being, according to the Gentleman's Magazine, in his sixtieth year.
He began to write, among his first works in 1859 being a poem lamenting the death of Alexander von Humboldt.
Both were appointed by warrant from the Lord Chamberlain, although the appointment was frequently published, in the form of letters patent under the Great Seal.
After the death of the king in 1610, the plans to expand the royal cabinet of curiosities were abandoned.
He was a supporter of Anne Boleyn, then Marchioness or Marquess of Pembroke, who he describes as the "most onerabyll lady Marcas of Penbroke".
He had married Catherine Serocold in 1740, by whom he had two daughters, and was buried at St Nicholas, Liverpool, on 21 February 1768.
During its lifetime, the Niagara Apothecary at times sold gasoline, postal insurance, veterinary supplies, marine supplies, ice cream, soft drinks, and tickets for train and boat.
With Bernhard Meyer and Johannes Scherbius, he was co-author of "Oekonomisch-technische Flora der Wetterau", a publication in which the three men described various botanical genera and species.
Notably, he cured the incapacitated hands of a dyer's apprentice thereby earning himself an election to the Society of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce in May 1761.
John Moffet, Relative to the Contest for a Seat in the 41st Congress as a Representative from the Third District of Pennsylvania, 1869 Brewster, F.
Rand produced two catalogues of the Garden and coöperated with the Leiden Physic Garden via Herman Boerhaave.
Since the majority of women in this era were denied access to university training, apprenticeship was one way to acquire the skills needed to practice.
At Paris he studied under Petit, and after visiting Rheims proceeded to Leyden, where he graduated M.D.
At this time he was leasing the Copperas Works in Bromley from his brother-in-law, the shipwright John Perry Sr (father of John Perry) of Blackwall Yard.
Later known as Binnend the estate lies near Burntisland but its associated village went into decline from the 1890s and was fully abandoned in 1954.
Therefore; although he remained in prison for two years until his friends broke him out, his execution was avoided.
Jakob Benjamin Fischer (13 October 1731 – 25 July 1793) was a Baltic German naturalist and apothecary.
Bidloo's Dutch rendering of the Italian work is entitled Een Geletterd Man verdadigd en verbeterd, proposing the defense and bettering of Bartoli's "lettered" man, as a Stoic model of Christian humanism.
21 July 1936 – 4 October 1949: Stanley Hewett 4 October 1949 – 1 October 1964: John Nigel Loring 1 October 1964 – 3 January 1975: Ralph Southward 3 January 1975 – 12 February 2003: Nigel Southward 2003–present: Timothy Evans References Further reading Matthews, L.G.
The authenticity of the museum is primarily in the use of materials, as the name is ahistorical (the term "apothecary" is anachronistic for the period represented by the museum) and the practice involved other activities.
For each entry Ziz recorded vernacular French names, precise collection localities—often his own discoveries—and the number of specimens he dried, marking rarities with red symbols.
Just as a great wine shop will help you more and more as they get to know your tastes, so will Tenzing Momo with what ails or occupies you.
He collaborated with Berlin botanists Alexander Braun (1805-1877) and Paul Ascherson (1834-1913) and produced a revision of the Rubus species in Germany.
He lived piously to the age of ninety-seven years, and worth (notwithstanding his many acts of publick and private charity) near as many thousand pounds as he was years, having thirty-seven children by one wife, and about sixty grandchildren at his funeral.
Basilius Besler (1561–1629) was a respected Nuremberg apothecary and botanist, best known for his monumental florilegium, the Hortus Eystettensis (lit.
She was the daughter of the city councillor of Gothenburg Timon van Schoting and Clara du Rées, and married in 1646 to the apothecary Georg Christian Daurer (1618-1664), who in the same year acquired the pharmacy Markattan in Stockholm.
In 1819 he was appointed teacher of natural sciences at the Mainz gymnasium, later adding the titles Medizinalrat and Professor.
It was through the influence of Thomas Smith, a banker, of Lombard Street, London, a relative through the Tregelles family (see also Edwin Octavius Tregelles), and other wealthy men, that he became Physician to the London Hospital.
Rumor says, "Ozunu was able to manipulate demonic spirits, making them draw water and gather firewood.
Shires displaced John Clavie from his position, who allowed him to make waters, perfumes, and odours for the royal family and for the sweetening of linen.
Francis Bernard (1698) External links Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Stephen, Leslie, ed.
Two days later he managed to reach a height of not more than 300 feet, travelling for half a mile between Green House on the northern edge of what is now Holyrood Park to the nearby village of Restalrig.
In 1450, Landucci began keeping the diary that would posthumously prove his claim to fame, diligently recording events of the day until his death.
‘Substance of Speech at the Ciceronian School, Globe Tavern, Fleet Street, 2 March 1795’ (in favour of Charles James Fox), 1795.
This privilege was abolished in 1873, after which all pharmacists were to be formally trained as such, an education which was opened for women in 1891, the first graduate being Märtha Leth.
His attempts to learn more about fossil identification and interpretation were frustrated by a lack of available literature in English, so he decided to improve matters by writing his own introduction to the study of fossils.
When nothing could be elicited by this, they ordered the old boot to be brought, alleging this new one used by the hangman was not so good as the old, and accordingly it was brought, and he underwent the torture a second time, and adhered to what he had before said.
The last payment recorded to Foular was in December 1512 for a year's supply of "powder, spicery, apothecary, and materials for the King and Queen".
Death and legacy Chase died without issue on 23 June 1721 leaving his estate to his widow and Dr Stephen Chase, the eldest son of his cousin, also Stephen Chase.
Volume 1 Volume 2 Deutsches Apothekerbuch: nach neuern und richtigern Kenntnissen in der Pharmakologie und Pharmacie.
It has a diameter of 48 cm (19 inches), is 36 cm (14 inches) high, and weighs 129 kilograms (284 pounds).
The "quintessence" was an imagined healing substance with some of the properties of distilled alcohol or aqua vitae, particularly associated with the 14th-century French alchemist Jean de Roquetaillade.
Joachim Christian Timm died in Malchin in 1805 and is regarded today as a pioneer of modern botany in Germany.
She was a co-author of the Winckelbouck, in which, from 1751, she described all her medical recipes.
At that point, Frederik sent him abroad to learn more about chemistry and pharmacy in a number of European countries.
He denounced Protestantism and converted to Catholicism after which he was declared innocent on 25 February 1689.
The end of World War II sparked development, so at a town planning board meeting held on 5 February 1962, a proposal was made to establish a local heritage organization.
Renward Cysat (Cusatus; 1545–1614) was an apothecary, advocate, cartographer and city councillor of Lucerne.
Ownership The building is located on Lot 64m, a property deeded to William Dickson in 1796 by The Crown.
Proceedings at Meeting held at the Crown and Anchor, Strand, 1 June 1818, to secure the Election of Henry Hunt, with the Speech at length of Gale Jones.’ ‘Speech at the British Forum’ (on the justice of prosecuting Richard Carlile for continuing to publish works of Tom Paine), 1819.
Elizabeth Gooking Greenleaf (November 11, 1681 – November 11, 1762) was the first female apothecary in the Thirteen Colonies.
The feeling of the house ran strongly against him, although the people of Dublin were hotly in his favour.
Work In 1611, the bishop, who was already quite ill, commissioned Besler to compile a codex of the plants growing in his garden, a task which Besler took sixteen years to complete, the bishop dying shortly before the work was published in 1613.
Besler did not consider himself a scientist, but rather relied on the extant literature of his time including Camerarius, Clusius, Fuchs, Tabernaemontanus and Lobelius, but his work predated the introduction of many overseas plants to Germany.
Works Houghton edited a periodical, A Collection of Letters for the Improvement of Husbandry & Trade, published as two vols.
Biography Besler was born in Nuremberg, Holy Roman Empire on February 13 1561, the son of Michael Besler.
Ozunu had first lived in Mount Katsuragi and been acclaimed for his sorcery and was the teacher of Outer Junior 5th Rank Lower Grade Karakuni no Muraji Hirotari.
Dieterich stayed at Nykjøbing Castle for a year but when the Elector died in 1640, it was said that Dieterich's cures may have hastened the death.
He also became a financier and land speculator, buying and selling parcels of property in New England and Ohio, amassing a large fortune in the process.
Many historians see her as having facilitated Arnold's plans to switch sides; he opened secret negotiations with André, and she relayed their messages to each other.
Normally the sight of prayer flags and the smell of incense repel me, but the store’s herbs and other products, along with the knowledgeable service, have made Tenzing Momo part of my regular routine...
William Hudson FRS (1730 in Kendal – 23 May 1793) was a British botanist and apothecary based in London.
Denig's book was published in 1990 as The Picture-Bible of Ludwig Denig: A Pennsylvania German Emblem Book.
Death Jackson died on September 17, 1801, at his home in Oxford, Pennsylvania, and is buried in the Oxford Cemetery in Chester County, Pennsylvania.
The company was established after the partners bought out the stock and lease of a wholesaler who was about to retire.
He was re-elected MP for Westminster in November 1640 for the Long Parliament and sat until he was excluded under Pride's Purge in 1648.
He bequeathed the remains of his herbarium to the Apothecaries' Company and some have subsequently been transferred to the herbaria at the Royal Botanic Gardens and the Natural History Museum in London.
He wrote parts of the multi-volume work Die Schmetterlinge Europas (The Lepidoptera of Europe), published in 1908.
Cysat published works about the history and folklore of Lucerne, as well as a number of theatrical plays, and a book about (then-recently discovered) Japan.
Johann Udalric Rumler Rumler's brother or relative Johann Udalric Rumler studied at various German and Italian universities, supported by Raymund Fugger, an Imperial Count of the mercantile patriciate of the Fugger family.
MacCartney sent copies of verses made at court, including the King's own lines about William Fowler, a poet who served Anne of Denmark as her secretary, and promised a verse made about the Treasurer, Walter Stewart of Blantyre.
From left to right in the picture are Thomas, born 1740 and dressed in skirts as was typical for small boys until they were breeched, Henrietta (later mother of the economist Thomas Robert Malthus), Anna Maria and Richard.
He was banished by the Imperial Court to Izu Ōshima on June 26, 699, but folk tales at least as old as the Nihon Ryōiki (c.
Sometime before 1638, William married Phillipa Phillips (died 1705) the youngest daughter of Francis Phillips of London (one of the Auditors of the Royal Exchequer) and sister of Francis Phillips (died 1674), of the Inner Temple and of Sunbury Manor, Sunbury, Middlesex (now Surrey).
He was captured and held in prison by the Spanish Inquisition while travelling around Spain, until he renounced his Protestantism and converted to Catholicism.
Between 1756 and 1758, he studied natural sciences, physics and chemistry in Copenhagen and in 1761 he went to Uppsala and studied botany and zoology under Carl von Linné.
There are references to him in the Morris Letters He was described as being a dilettante, a collector of fossils, curios, books and paintings and a keen gardener.
In July 1610, Rumler and his wife were naturalized as English denizens at the same time as other members of the queen's household; Dorothea Silking and her sister "Engella Seelken" from Gustrow, Katherine Benneken from Garlstorf, and Martin Schöner.
He was elected assistant-physician to St Bartholomew's Hospital 20 November 1678, and was appointed physician in ordinary to James II.
In 1804, Narciso Marull, was appointed as Examinador de Farmacia and Revisor de Medicinas (Pharmacy Examiner - Medical inspector).
In 1732, shortly after the death of Isabella, he was married again, on this occasion to Christine Catharina Pfaffenreuther, daughter of a town official.
These facts are proved by his will, dated 19 June 1654, and proved 20 June 1659, and by his funeral certificate in the College of Arms, both of which documents give his age as ninety-four at the time of his death.
In 1796 he published Sketch of a Political Tour through Rochester, Chatham, Maidstone, and Gravesend.
The book was reissued as Weimar Book of Medicine in 1678 and several of its recipes were used in Eleonora Maria Rosalia of Troppau and Jägerndorf’s popular book of remedies in 1695.
He had married Mary Horwood (1819–1889) during his period in Driffield, who was an educated woman who had hoped to be a writer.
Petiver himself did not travel much with visits restricted to Bristol and Cambridge and in 1711 to the Netherlands.
En no Gyōja was conferred the posthumous title Jinben Daibosatsu (Great Bodhisattva Jinben, 神変大菩薩) at a ceremony held in 1799 to commemorate the one-thousandth year of his passing.
A group of historiographers wrote about him: A social outcast, Tytler did much hack work for low pay and rarely if ever emerged from poverty.
Sources Missouri Botanical Garden See also List of florilegia and botanical codices Links Phytanthoza Iconographia online
In addition to his investigation of neutral salts, he published papers on the inflammation of turpentine and other essential oils by nitric acid, and the methods of embalming practised in Ancient Egypt.
He gained his doctorate in Freiburg with a monograph on the genus Cinchona ("Monographie der Gattung Cinchona L.").
A third apothecary, Alexander Barclay made two pints of "vergeis" and a mutchkin of perfumed rose water.
Meetings were held about the country at which samples of bread, flour, ground coffee, mustard, vinegar, pepper, wine, beer, and drugs, as adulterated by the local retailers, were publicly exhibited and analysed.
He also earned income from editing other works and translations, while renting a room for himself and his family at Duddingston.
By early July, he was back in Philadelphia, where he wrote another secret message to Clinton on July 7, which implied that his appointment to West Point was assured and that he might even provide a "drawing of the works ...
508-514 Mémoire sur l'action de l'acide vitriolique sur les huiles, Académie royale des sciences, 1780, p.
Publications Horti medici amstelodamensis rariorum tam Orientalis :quam Occidentalis Indiæ, aliarumque peregrinarum plantarum, magno studio ac labore, sumptibus Civitatis amstelodamensis, longâ annorum serie collectarum, descriptio et icones ad vivum æri incisæ /auctore Joanne Commelino.
Philippe Sylvestre Dufour (born Manosque 1622, died Vevey (Canton de Vaud) 1687) was a French Protestant apothecary, banker, collector, and writer based in Lyon.
It is believed Abbott never sold any of his paintings, and most of his works were retained by his family until well into the 20th century.
He returned to the army at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, in May 1778 to the applause of men who had served under him at Saratoga.
By what reason and means that murdering principle is taught and carried on; who were accessory to the contrivance of murdering; who were to be murdered; and also as to the archbishop of St Andrews's murder.
During the English invasions of Rio de la Plata, he had provided medicines and provided his aid to the patriots wounded.
A 1693 letter from David Evans of the Ashmolean Museum to Humphrey Foulkes summarises Mathews' history of Caersws, and mentions his histories of Shrewsbury and Bristol.
He died from a heart attack at his home in Belle Alliance Strasse, Berlin and was buried in the Holy Cross Cemetery, Berlin-Mariendorf.
William Rosewell junior went on to St Paul's School and to Wadham College, Oxford, in 1656 as a Pauline Exhibitor.
He collaborated with Frederik Ruysch on the first volume of Jan Commelijn's "Horti Medici Amstelodamensis Rariorum" which appeared in 1697 and dealt mainly with plants from the East and West Indies.
Wiegleb analyzed minerals, the formation of saltpetre on walls and the formation of silicic acid from the reaction of hydrofluoric acid and glass.
Claude Joseph Geoffroy (8 August 1685 in Paris – 9 March 1752 in Paris) was the brother of Étienne François Geoffroy.
Historian Barry Wilson points out that Arnold's descendants established deep roots in Canada, becoming leading settlers in Upper Canada and Saskatchewan.
Career In 2000 Selen began his career at the Federal Criminal Police Office where he was assigned to the security detail of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder and Minister of the Interior Otto Schily.
When Abyei Town was attacked and destroyed by SAF forces on May 14, 2008, the evacuation plan was implemented.
Rangi survived and resumed his romance with Rebecca after he miraculously regained his ability to walk.
Political career Emery was elected to the South Dakota House of Representatives for District 26A in 2022 and took office on January 10, 2023, succeeding Shawn Bordeaux.
However, the character was also often involved in relationship storylines, including long running partnerships with Tess, Morgan Braithwaite (Bonnie Soper), Jill Kingsbury (Natalie Medlock) and serial killer Penny Rourke (Carolyn Dando).
Bleasdale was asked to return for more episodes during the following series, and then for 14 episodes of the sixth series in 1991, before continuing in the role.
Rangi went into hiding and Donna helped him through the ordeal shortly before fellow paramedic Mark Shawn (Tony MacIver) was revealed as the true culprit.
Fraser initially joined the rest of the PC caucus in its merger with the Wildrose Party to form the United Conservative Party in 2017.
Marcie Portrayed by Jeannine Taylor Appears in: Friday the 13th (1980) Status: Deceased Died in: Friday the 13th (1980) Marcie was the girlfriend of Jack Burell and the friend of Ned Rubenstein.
It was filmed in a documentary format, which director Steve Hughes hoped would give it "a grounded, naturalistic feel".
After giving birth, Nicole has a brain bleed which led to a seizure, resulting in her being in a coma, and Vinnie is devastated.
Machaca did not begin school until age 10, and she was bullied for being so much older than her classmates, so she dropped out shortly after enrolling.
He chose to accept the role of Rick Alessi in Neighbours, as it meant he got to stay with his family in Melbourne.
In the episode "Hello, Stranger" she announces to the wives that her contract will be up in a week and she will be joining Dr.
In 1930, her father was appointed deputy director of the Agence des sucreries coloniales to Réunion's capital, Saint-Denis.
On 16 August 2014, it was announced that Casualty were reintroducing a character from the past, but they initially kept the identity of this character a secret.
On the video, Payne can be heard saying, "She [Wubbels] is the one who has told me 'no'." The remote person on that phone, assumed to be a hospital administrator, says Yeah, sir, but you're making a big mistake.
Paievska was injured during her tour of duty, necessitating the replacement of both hips and leaving her with a partial disability.
Abs entered into a short lived marriage with Ellen Zitek (Georgina Bouzova), the half-sister of his love interest Nina Farr (Rebekah Gibbs).
Congress, Carmona had stated that he would not object to a ban on all tobacco products "if Congress chose to go that way." The Bush administration distanced itself from this statement.
Australia Passions was broadcast nationally in Australia on the Seven Network each weekday at 3:00 pm, beginning on 29 January 2001 with the series' 1999 episodes.
He attended the University of Nebraska–Lincoln and later received certification as a paramedic from Central Community College in Hastings.
The pitch trim was set to a slight nose-down attitude, which the aircraft manufacturer calculated to indicate stable flight at 110–120 kn.
Bar Kupershtein (Hebrew: בר אברהם קופרשטיין; born 1 April 2002), is an Israeli who was abducted by Hamas on October 7th 2023 while working as a paramedic and security guard at the Supernova music festival.
He returned from his hiatus to film his final scenes and his final appearance was in the series twenty-two episode ""To Serve and Protect"", broadcast on 8 March 2008.
Richard Glenn Fraser (born February 13, 1972) is a Canadian politician who was an elected member to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta representing the electoral district of Calgary-South East.
Their relationship goes badly for the next two years, with Vinnie's business coming unglued and Pele's diabetes also taking a toll on their relationship.
Two notable storylines included the character recovering from paraplegia and dating his suspected sister.
The show's executive producer Oliver Kent explained that the team wanted to return to Sam and Iain's history, as it had briefly been touched on, but not explored any further until that point.
Their friendly banter proved so popular they were granted their own special episode which focused on their shift.
Struggling to cope with sobriety, his awaiting trial, and disappointment from Callum, Hunter departed to Hastings to attend rehab in March 2012, finally on good terms with his father.
According to the information provided in Halloween (1978), Michael Myers, based on the date of Judith's murder (October 31, 1963) and his age at the time in which it occurred (6 years old), he would have been born sometime in the year 1957.
Fans continued to ask what happened to Tom which annoyed Keeling, resulting in him begging to be written back into the soap.
2) #175 commemorated the 100th issue since the death of Superman in battle with Doomsday, by staging a rematch.
Creation and casting During pre-production of Shortland Street in the early 1990s, producers planned for original character Stuart Neilson to be gay.
After a three-year hiatus since his last bout, Miocic faced current UFC Heavyweight Champion (also former two-time UFC Light Heavyweight Champion) Jon Jones on November 16, 2024, at UFC 309.
Such certifications provide designations to paramedic professionals who demonstrate the knowledge and skills essential to critical care paramedics.
Broadcaster Paul Holmes made a guest appearance on the show, featuring Tom's disappearance on his talk show.
He soon returned to playing in goal and impressed Huntington School teacher Alan Whitehead, a former York City player, who ran the York and District team.
Minnesota House of Representatives Newberger was elected to the Minnesota House of Representatives in 2012.
Ellie Cornell was keen on returning as Rachel in Halloween 5, although she became disappointed to learn that her character would be killed off early in the film.
During his time in the show, the COVID-19 pandemic developed further and affected the show's production.
They are thrown from the car and are found by Jacob and paramedics Iain Dean (Michael Stevenson) and Jez Andrews (Lloyd Everitt).
She returned to attend Tama's (David Wikaira-Paul) wedding before she returned to Australia with a newly released Victor.
In Metal Gear Solid 3, Volgin uses the Philosopher's Legacy to create the fortress Groznyj Grad (グロズニュ・グラード, Gurozunyu Gurādo; Грозный Град) within the Soviet branch, with the Shagohod and The Boss as collateral.
Selen is the first high-ranking officer with a migrant background in the German intelligence services.
However the audience related well to the couple and when producers decided to make the two sleep again, there were no complaints from fans as were expected.
In 2003, Passions submitted an orangutan named BamBam, who had been portraying the recurring role of Precious, for a Daytime Emmy Award.
The board is composed of eleven Nova Scotians from across the arts sector and is part of the province's five-point plan on arts and culture released in February 2011.
However, a few years later, she learned to read and began leading literacy courses in her community.
Personal life In 1991, she married Benjamín Cuéllar, whom she met during her work providing medical services to communities in Potosí Department.
Lloyd is played by the brilliant Michael Obiora, who viewers will probably know from Hotel Babylon, EastEnders and Grange Hill.
During a state visit to Pakistan in 2016, Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan publicly acknowledged Peshawari's legacy and services to his adopted nation during a speech to a joint session of the Pakistani parliament.
On October 11, 2017, Payne was fired by the police department and his commanding officer at the time of the incident, Lieutenant James Tracy, was demoted two ranks down to police officer.
Barrett commented "Iain is on a stretcher in the corridor while Sacha is on the floor in another." On 27 April 2019, Casualty aired a special episode that centred on Iain's return to work in the wake of his suicide attempt.
Peshawari's assassination is supposed to have been a case of mistaken identity; Rauf Orbay, the politician and naval commander who served as Turkey's first prime minister after the independence war, had been the intended target of the Armenian shooter.
He was included in the squad for the under-21s' next match against Slovakia on 11 October 2002 in qualification Group 7 of the 2004 UEFA European Under-21 Championship and, despite Kirkland being injured, failed to play as Wolves' Matt Murray was selected.
Latasha Montclair Season 7 Latasha Montclair (portrayed by Ashanti) is the wife of Corporal Quincy Montclair.
Relationship with Jemima Hampton The arrival of Jemima Hampton (Liesha Ward Knox) in mid-2005 proved a new start for Vinnie who was struggling to withstand a relationship after his affair with Shannon Te Ngaru (Amber Curreen).
She also said she will make a donation to the Utah Nurses Association and help lead the #EndNurseAbuse campaign by the American Nurses Association.
The guard called for Spider-Man to stop the robber, but the nascent Spidey refused on the grounds that catching criminals was not his job.
Tom had four sons, Patrick, villainous Darryl (Mark Ferguson), Damien (Mark Ferguson) and original teenage heart throb Stuart (Martin Henderson).
In the 2015 Christmas finale, Vinnie and his son Michael are held in a hostage situation along with Leanne and some staff and patients.
It had fixed tricycle landing gear, with the two main gear bogies (two wheels each) mounted on legs that extend down from the wing, just aft of the engines.
A member of the Republican Party since 2003, he is the longest-serving lieutenant governor in Nebraska history, with slightly over eight years of service.
He started to date Penny Rourke (Carolyn Dando) but learnt she was a murderer and turned her in to the police.
Vainu'u "Vinnie" Kruse-Miller (previously Kruse) is a fictional character from the New Zealand soap opera Shortland Street, played by Pua Magasiva.
After Marlon Beresford left York, and Howarth's proposed moves elsewhere fell through, he re-signed for the club in September 2002 on a week-to-week contract.
After an initial bad start, the pair make their relationship official, just as Sam returns to the hospital.
She continued her military involvement during the Six-Day War and Yom Kippur War, where she volunteered as a medic in a field hospital.
Passions was the last daytime television soap opera created for American network television until Beyond the Gates premiered on CBS in February 2025.
Although Jessica turns him down, they stay together, and a DNA test confirms Adam is Harry's father.
He is killed by Raiden following the latter's assault on the headquarters of World Marshal Inc., a PMC.
Provincial career Elected in 2006, Porter was a member of the Progressive Conservatives until June 13, 2014, when he left the party to sit as an independent citing Jamie Baillie's management style as a factor (Baillie said Porter neglected his duties).
Botcher enjoyed portraying a paramedic and revealed that her experience inspired her to complete a first aid training course.
Molyneux appeared alongside Meg Fraser and they play younger versions of the film's two main characters.
In a few months Nicole gets better and after her credit card scam, and Vinnie believing in her, she proposes.
We want to show how stretched paramedics are in the real world, and how much responsibility they have – so much is asked of them.
Miocic won the fight by TKO due to punches early in the first round and received a "Performance of the Night" bonus as well.
Personal life Miocic works as a full-time firefighter and paramedic, becoming full-time in 2022 after many years of part-time work, in Oakwood and Valley View, Ohio.
His attempts at a career in modelling abruptly ended in 2009 when he realised the huge drug culture in the industry, and he briefly dated nurse Aroha Reed (Geneva Alexander-Marsters) before joining medical school to become a doctor.
He tweeted that he was overwhelmed with all the lovely comments and then thanked his fans for the 'love and support' for Jeff.
That year, Molyneux appeared in the twelfth series of the Australian reality television series series, Big Brother.
Bradford City On 8 June 2005, Howarth signed a two-year contract with League One club Bradford City.
Returns On 5 August 2016, it was confirmed that Bleasdale had reprised his role for Casualty's 30th anniversary feature-length episode.
In the Japanese version, Mei Ling only quoted Chinese proverbs: she would cite the original proverb in Chinese and then explain its meaning to Snake in Japanese.
Newberger, a retired paramedic, immediately responded and rendered aid to Howe and Droogsma until ambulances could arrive.
His family held a public birthday party for Kupershtein at Hostages Square to mark his second birthday in captivity, while close friends posted tributes on social media.
He participates in the creation of the Community center for war veterans in České Budějovice and also in the creation of the Clubhouse for war veterans in Český Krumlov.
Prior to his tenure with Maverick, he worked in disarmament, demobilization and reintegration at an NGO with ties to the United Nations, but after meeting Boris and seeing how ineffective the UN was at maintaining DDR, left and joined Maverick.
A candidate must hold an unrestricted paramedic license in the state or country of practice, and have a significant knowledge of ACLS, PALS, NRP and BTLS/ITLS and current CAMTS standards.
He represented the electoral district of Hants West in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly as a Liberal from 2006 until his retirement from politics in 2021.
Alexander Pinkhosovich Podrabinek (Russian: Алекса́ндр Пи́нхосович Подраби́нек; born 8 August 1953) is a Soviet dissident, journalist and commentator.
The records showed Sheehy had been making calls to women other than his wife for at least four years.
This version is Joshua Walker, a human soldier who was infused with Doomsday's DNA as part of a government experiment led by Amanda Waller and codenamed All-American Boy.
In 2017 stuff.co.nz journalist Fleur Mealing named Jamie as the seventh character she most wanted to return for the show's 25th anniversary, citing the need to celebrate the first openly gay character on the show whilst it was in the midst of portraying its first transgender character Blue Nathan.
Juliet Mills' daughter Melissa Caulfield appeared in 1999 and 2005 as Nanny Phoebe Figalilly, a role played by Mills in the sitcom Nanny and the Professor.
Prior to his abduction, he financially supported his mother, Julie, his father, Tal, and his four younger siblings, by working various jobs and volunteering with the Yedidim emergency assistance organization.
Exploration of backstory The character's first major story focuses on the exploration of her backstory through the introduction of her son, Ross West (Chris Gordon).
She took refuge in the house of a fellow activist, who found a doctor and helped her flee the country.
Molyneux continued to work as an event paramedic until December 2022 while he tried to secure more acting roles.
Institute of Peace, Templeton conducted missions in Abyei province in Southern Kordofan (Southern Sudan) to assess the situation in Agok, with special emphasis on analyzing water supply.
The sequence opens and closes with the show's logo in an italic typeface and in an Arial Black typeface in generic caps posted in front of the cursive form of the title.
As of September 2005, he was a firefighter-paramedic in Deerfield Beach but living in Coconut Creek, Florida.
Outraged, he donned his Spider-Man costume and captured the man only to realize to his horror that it was the same burglar whom he could have effortlessly captured earlier at the studio.
After leaving active duty, Carmona attended the Bronx Community College of the City University of New York, where he earned his associate of arts degree in nursing.
Despite the tempting offer and a potential romance, Vinnie opted to stay in Ferndale with Nicole for family reasons but a continued bitterness remained.
On January 23, 2017, Newberger immediately responded when Governor Mark Dayton collapsed during the State of the State Address.
She made the decision to live in a flat rather than stay in a hotel as many cast members opt to do, and she later began sharing a flat with co-star George Rainsford, who portrays Ethan Hardy.
After saying his goodbyes to Charlie, Josh left the series at the end of 2006 and set off on his travels to see cricket and culture around the world.
At the time of the shows creation there was only one Pacific Islander paramedic in New Zealand and as a result producers wrote the role of Sam as a paramedic to help enforce the role of Pacific Islanders in the community.
In summer 2005, the prominent character Simone Russell came out as gay; Passions made daytime history by being the first serial to show two women—Simone and love interest Rae Thomas—in bed making love.
Tom could not cope with Marj's lies and the marriage deteriorated to a point in early 1993, when Tom told Marj he was going to the dairy to get some cream and did not return.
Despite Nicole suffering health scare during birth, the couple welcome a son Pele (Feleti Peter Aulika).
So a lot of impostor syndrome and, you know, very nervous, but excited." In 2022, Molyneux auditioned for the role of Byron Stone in the soap opera Neighbours.
He married Collette but his marriage collapsed after discovering she was pregnant with a child that had been conceived during an illicit affair.
Part of the original cast, Tom was portrayed by Adrian Keeling from the shows first episode until February the following year when the character starred in a high profile storyline where Tom went missing.
Mac then confesses that he stole drugs and when Rita informs him he will be suspended, Mac decides to resign.
The character was written off in a whodunit storyline that saw his body discovered after being missing for weeks.
Hunter lies to both Daniel and Callum about his trip to Dunedin, something which Donoghue insisted was easy for him; "With al that's happened, Hunter can't bear losing face to Callum.
Political career In late 2014 Yao considered running for office after Wildrose party was in disarray after leader Danielle Smith and eight other MLAs crossed the floor to the ruling Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta.
In 1997, the Pima County system, which was in financial trouble before he was appointed, continued to lose millions of dollars and he resigned.
When Roy Ellisson is brought into the ED following a fight, he abuses Jez in the ambulance for being black and "queer".
Arditi abandoned the ambulance and ran on foot towards the burning plane where she pulled out the injured crew just before it exploded.
He decided to leave Neighbours and his final scenes as Byron were broadcast in August 2025, when the character leaves to go travelling.
In her first year in Donbas, she formed a volunteer ambulance corps that treated both civilian and military casualties, which eventually gained the moniker "Taira's Angels".
However a relationship with a drug addict saw him defy his faith and she ended up stealing from the flat.
If the FP-C renewal candidate has not achieved the required 100 CECs by expiration they must retake the FP-C exam to re-certify.
As the aircraft descended toward Campbeltown, it had not been on its approved course since it left the immediate vicinity of Glasgow.
Junior dos Santos 2016 #3 Ranked Fighter of the Year 2019 Comeback Fighter of the Year Sherdog 2015 Beatdown of the Year vs.
Naufahu was pleased to be working alongside Blakely but was unaware the two would share a romantic storyline.
In 2011, she was named the first president of the "Juana Azurduy" Social Organization of Quechua Women, which aims to empower women in peri-urban neighborhoods of Sucre.
In 1999 Rangi dated both Shivani Naran (Madeleine Sami) and Janet Maxwell (Katrina Hobbs) but as the year ended, Rangi was delighted to discover Donna was in fact a result of an affair and in no way related to him.
Her father is unaware that she is a lesbian but catches her kissing another woman and has a heart attack.
Minnesota judges may not consider communications made to them regarding cases without the presence and knowledge of both lawyers.
In 1912, he and his team sailed aboard an Italian ship Sardegna from Bombay on 15 December 1912 for the Ottoman capital Istanbul, amidst a mammoth public sendoff arranged earlier at Delhi's Jama Masjid, where the atmosphere was charged with the speech of Hakim Ajmal Khan.
Due to such high audience reaction, the paternity was unraveled in 1999, setting off a cliffhanger that saw the two possibly reconcile in the new millennium.
Venn explained that Jacob is grateful for Jan's support and recognises that without her, he could not manage all his responsibilities.
These recommendations would require two pilots for all air ambulance flights and require a radar altimeter or "other independent low height warning device" (such as a GPWS) on all single-pilot public transport flights conducted in limited visibility (i.e., IFR passenger flights).
Marcus has said that he believes Creighton to be, after Jason, the best character in the Friday the 13th series, also stating Creighton "is the flip side of the Jason coin.
26 2018 Saving Tsunami Victims - First Responders to the Tsunami in Indonesia Sudan Arc Seminar - SPEAR field report on Abyei Survey
During his 20 years of voluntary service to the Victorian Country Fire Authority, he was promoted to the rank of captain and selected to be an ambulance paramedic.
This is to ensure the candidate has sought additional education and has worked in conjunction with a professional educator (i.e.: Nurse, Physician, EMS Instructor, etc.) to better understand the information outlined in the examination's DCO.
Outside of his legislative duties, he continues to work in emergency medical services administration, focusing on improving rural health access and supporting tribal EMS systems.
Whilst she and Jan are out together, Ffion is attacked by a masked man, who also hands Jan a burner phone from Ross.
In September 1993 Marj was contacted by a woman who claimed to be in a cult with Tom and who asked Marj for money.
He was the Republican nominee for the United States Senate in 2018, losing in a landslide to incumbent Democrat Amy Klobuchar.
She leaves in series 25 to become a counsellor after admitting that she would rather be helping those with psychological problems rather than physical.
The love triangle between Vinnie, Shannon and Tama was named as the most popular romance storyline to feature in 2004.
Derailed Alt-Ben Parker In an alternate reality shown in Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man, May died in a random accident, prompting Peter to go into show business with Ben as his agent to make money.
Doomsday, working alongside Superman, tears through numerous probes with seemingly little effort before finally confronting Imperiex.
In the show, Bryon is the son of long-term character Jane Harris, played by Annie Jones, with whom Molyneux filmed his first scenes with, who he called "fantastic" and supported him on-set In 2024, Molyneux discussed that writers planned to give his character more "raunchy" storylines.
Based on Selens statements, Maksan speculated that he would do more than Haldenwang to combat espionage and sabotage.
He quickly fell offside with Ula but it soon became apparent he was still scarred from TP's death as well as the recent death of his second wife Alise, whom he had fathered a daughter Honour (Sophie McIntosh) with.
As a youth, he played as a goalkeeper for Olympia Station FC, before representing York and District Schools aged 12.
Other memorable storylines for the character include his romance with Rachel McKenna (Angela Bloomfield), two car accidents (one of which left him paralyzed), getting stabbed twice, recovering from paraplegia and his girlfriend dying as he was about to propose.
If she was in an embarrassing situation, Ruby would replay the situation in her head multiple times afterwards.
In the following sequel, Annie, although slightly disfigured with the scars from her near-fatal attack, is shown to be much more stable than Laurie, who is living with Annie and her father.
Elected as a Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta MLA in 2012, Fraser was sworn into the Redford cabinet in 2013 as Minister of Public Safety.
Later that year, she was imprisoned and tortured for her social activism, and she was forced to flee the country.
Officers from the Salt Lake City Police Department arrived at the hospital and asked to get a blood sample from Gray.
In her statement she said that Ukrainian prisoners of war were held in terrible conditions similar to Nazi's concentration camps.
It featured Tom going to the dairy and not returning, with Marj discovering he had emptied the savings.
However, in blatant disregard of his own rules, on one occasion Nathan had his own mother admitted ahead of all those currently queued in the system.
Frisbie was Calhoun County Commissioner having first taken the seat in 2011, elected from the 4th district.
An ill Tom eventually recovered but he soon learnt Darryl had attempted to rape Kirsty (Angela Dotchin) and kicked his son out of the house.
Development Departure After appearing in the show for eighteen years and becoming one of the longest serving actors, Bleasdale announced his departure in August 2007.
Francis Ngannou II at UFC 260 Two-time MMA Heavyweight Lineal Champion MMADNA.nl 2016 Fighter of the Year.
He was nominated by the Regional Association of the Czech Red Cross in Český Krumlov for the Life-Saving Plaque when he saved a senior's life in 2017.
The hospital is empty, so it feels like a very ghostly place and that really feeds into the story that we're telling.
Despite Rangi being killed off, Donna continued on the show and soon became one of the show's longest running characters.
Hofbauer was the last directly elected mayor of Palmdale, California before the city changed its process to a rotating system.
He was appointed to the office by Governor Dave Heineman, having been previously elected as Mayor of Hastings in 2000.
On August 15, 2006, Passions became the first daytime drama to make full episodes available for download and purchase from the digital music store iTunes.
Mark Portrayed by Tom McBride Appears in: Friday the 13th Part 2, Friday the 13th: The Final Chapter, Friday the 13th Part VII: The New Blood Status: Deceased Died in: Friday the 13th Part 2 Mark is unable to walk, but still likes to keep fit.
However, with Achterberg established in the Tranmere goal, Howarth had to wait until 4 February 2003 to make his league debut away to Cheltenham Town, coming on as a substitute in the 57th minute after Achterberg sustained an injury.
The daughter of Roy Campbell's brother, Matt Campbell, who died during the Gulf War, she was born into a house of military traditions and trained herself in the 'arts' of soldiery.
His strong-willed and often rebellious attitude led him to a few confrontations with attending Gregory Pratt, who often called him a "cowboy"; this provided an ironic counterpoint to Pratt's earlier similar difficulties with Luka Kovač and John Carter.
Despite the death of both occupants of the aircraft, the UK's Air Accidents Investigation Branch, or AAIB, considered the impact survivable by the pilot.
Dylan insults Seb over his insecurity and inexperience, ending up looking like the guilty one, leaving Elle no choice but to open a formal investigation.
Later that day, Governor Dave Heineman held a press conference at the state capitol building to announce that he had accepted Sheehy's resignation.
Early life and education Arditi was born in 1937 in Sofia, Bulgaria, but grew up in Italy during the Second World War.
Stevenson later said that Lily and Iain were a good match, and thought they brought out "a great side of each other." He also believed it was one of the strongest pairings on the show at the time.
The highest ranking Passions ever achieved in the 18-to-49 demographic was fourth place in November 2002 and once again in January 2007.
Aged 21 at the time of his abduction, Kupershtein remained at the site to provide medical assistance to the wounded before he was taken hostage.
However, the weather reports the pilot received when he departed and others he received while en route show the cloud base was down to 400 ft (122 m) ("broken" cloud layer).
Early life Family background Abdur Rahman Peshawari was born in 1886 in Peshawar, in what was then the Punjab Province – but in 1901 became part of the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) – of British India (now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan) to the city's prominent Samdani family.
CIA Director The Director of Central Intelligence is the one who planned Operation Snake Eater, leading Naked Snake to refuse to shake his hand during the award ceremony after returning from the mission.
In their conversations with the Turkish authorities, he refused to extradite members of the Gülen movement, and conversed through a translator in the German language most of the time.
When she returns home, Deborah becomes severely depressed due to Michael's behavior and commits suicide by shooting herself while watching old home movies of Michael, resulting in Laurie's adoption by the Strodes.
Diplomatic career In 1920, Peshawari was appointed by the Turkish government as its first ever envoy to Afghanistan.
Mercedes Christie Mercedes Christie, played by Hannah Spearritt, made her first screen appearance on 23 January 2016.
After leaving the acting industry, Falzon became a paramedic for St John Ambulance in Alice Springs.
Josh Griffiths is a fictional character played by actor Ian Bleasdale from the BBC medical drama Casualty.
He continued his studies at the University of South Bohemia in České Budějovice at the Faculty of Health and Social Studies, where he obtained a bachelor's degree in Public health protection.
Pamela and Chase end up getting a divorce because Pamela could not handle Chase being away all time at a moment's notice with Delta Force.
Из жёлтого безмолвия: Сборник воспоминаний и статей политзаключенных психиатрических больниц [From yellow silence: the collection of memoirs and articles by political prisoners of psychiatric hospitals] (in Russian).
Rangi started to date fellow paramedic Donna Heka (Stephanie Tauevihi) but the romance was cut short following the revelation they were in fact siblings.
Newberger was reprimanded by a judge for writing to encourage reconsideration of a judgment (worth roughly $250,000) against a donor to Newberger.
On 15 December 2022, he became a representative of the town of Český Krumlov for Žijeme Krumlovem Party with support of Svobodní.
John William Israel (4 July 1850 – 30 May 1926) was Commonwealth Auditor-General for the Australian Government between 1902 and 1926.
He was a Labor member for Yerrabi in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly from July 2019 to October 2020.
References Commission report: Eliminating Nuclear Threats – A Practical Agenda for Global Policymakers Nuclear Terms Handbook.
In 1948, when there was a departmental reorganization, his position was reverted to first assistant secretary.
Edgar Charles Johnston, DFC (30 April 1896 – 22 May 1988) was an Australian fighter pilot and ace of the First World War and, later, a leading member in civil aviation in Australia.
Biography Early life and education John Gerald Anderson was born on 12 February 1836 in Orphir, a parish in Orkney, Scotland.
It reported that trends emerging before the pandemic - higher levels of unemployment, poverty and psychological distress - have been amplified and "could fracture Australian society".
However, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd stated that neither he nor his office played any part in Bryce's decision.
The Special Operations Command (SOCOMD) is an Australian Defence Force command that was established on 5 May 2003 to unite all of the Australian Army's special forces units and by 2008 was fully operational.
The Commissioner is appointed by the Australian Government to review employees’ concerns about matters affecting employment, such as recruitment, discipline (misconduct) and performance management, and also provides recruitment and inquiry services to agencies.
Structure The department was an Australian Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Education, Susan Ryan.
The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was an Australian government department that existed between December 1975 and July 1987.
The department's first Minister, Peter Howson, was not keen on the job, reportedly calling the portfolio "trees, boongs and poofters".
Education O'Connell attended Queen's University Belfast, where he studied to attain a Bachelor of Arts (with first class honours) and his doctorate.
It comprised the whole of the cadastral Hundreds of Angas, Anna, Bagot, Forster, Fisher, Jellicoe, Nildottie, Ridley, Skurray, and parts of the Hundreds of Dutton and Bowhill.
On 16 February 2016, the court ruled Canada "did not have to change its laws nor its Constitution for the British royal succession rules to be amended and effective".
The Commissioner of Corrective Services is a statutory office-holder in the State of New South Wales, Australia, with responsibility for the State's prison, parole and community corrections systems.
Preparations for the Duke's visit began in April 1946, when Rockhampton mayor Henry Jeffries announced that the Duke, who was also serving as the 11th Governor-General of Australia, would visit Rockhampton with his wife.
While 45% of companies disclosed how they were prioritising selected SDGs, "very few companies link business goals and targets with the SDGs which makes assessing real progress towards achieving them difficult to determine".
On 27 February 2016, Cobb announced that he was retiring from politics and would not re-contest the Division of Calare in the 2016 Australian federal election.
Due to the state's population growth and growing use of the roads for mining in Australia many more projects are being planned and implemented across Queensland.
He was a member of the Opposition Shadow Ministry from 1992 to 1996, Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Social Security in 1996, Assistant Treasurer from 1996 to 2001, and Minister for the Arts and Sport from November 2001 to January 2007.
Eyre Peninsula In 1930, Robert Bedford and other wheatgrowers proposed that the Eyre Peninsula become a separate state from South Australia.
It was set up in 1994 in the then Department of Human Services and Health to give a greater focus on the health needs of Indigenous Australians in mainstream health programs.
Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex-husbands.
Following an amalgamation of departments in 1982, Schubert's responsibilities increased to administrating state affairs in the Premier's Department during a time when the National Party governed Queensland, led by Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen.
Translations included early Russian poets by Rosemary Dobson and David Campbell, Laurence Springarn's translations from Portuguese and Mark Scrivener's translations of German classics.
These constitutions are separate from the Australian Constitution, which governs the federal government of Australia and is also the relevant constitutional document for each of Australia's territories.
The administrative unit does not have jurisdiction over the uninhabited Ashmore and Cartier Islands and Heard Island and McDonald Islands, despite these territories lying within the Indian Ocean.
Divorce No-fault divorce Australia has no-fault divorce with the only ground for divorce being a claim of an irretrievable breakdown of marriage, evidenced by a twelve-month separation.
As a Company Director, Hielscher had considerable experience at Board level and had been associated with a number of public and private sector Boards.
Publication of unredacted version By comparing the redacted and unredacted copies it was possible to identify the censored sections of the report.
Her father arrived in Australia in 1953 to work at the Port Kembla steelworks, and was joined by his future wife six years later.
Statistics At 30 June 2015, there were 243,163 staff (203,348.50 full-time equivalent) employees in 20 Queensland Government departments and 15 other organisations included for statistical purposes.
Henderson was promoted to cabinet in 2001 after Labor won a Territory election for the first time in 2001.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1886 election out of parts of the seats of George Town, Selby and Fingal, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
In 1862 he was employed there as Assistant Emigration Officer and promoted to Emigration Officer in 1863.
The act became law on 14 December 1909, the day after the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 had been passed by the Commonwealth government.
History It was established in 1977 as the District Council of Murray Bridge, with the amalgamation of the Corporate Town of Murray Bridge and the surrounding District Council of Mobilong.
The by-election was triggered by the resignation of CLP Chief Minister Paul Everingham to seek election to the Federal House of Representatives.
This means that whilst one NSW senator represents 682,000 people, one NT senator would represent approximately 21,000 people.
If the application is made by one spouse (called a "sole application"), the divorce documents must be served on the other spouse, at least 28 days before the court hearing if the spouse is in Australia or 42 days if overseas.
He began evacuating women and children in December 1941, following the attack on Pearl Harbor, and in January 1942 sought permission from the Australian government to evacuate all white civilians from the territory.
Critics argued that applying TFES to low-value commodities might discourage the development of better uses for residues, raising concerns about the long-term financial viability of these practices.
Christie commenced his career as cadet engineer with the Department of Railways New South Wales, becoming general manager of operations of the Public Transport Commission in August 1979, then deputy chief executive of the State Rail Authority in July 1980.
He played for the All Australian Universities (1969) and All Australian Amateurs (1970) football teams and was picked in the opening Richmond Australian Football League side of 1972.
The early council meetings were held at a house in the riverside township of Caurnamont until a council chamber was built at Walker's Flat in 1896.
He was a member of the Northern Territory Legislative Council and Legislative Council of Papua and New Guinea.
In March 1903 Tait was appointed Chairman of Commissioners of the Victorian Railways, Australia with a salary of £3000 per annum.
The current elected councillors as of November 2022 are as follows: References External links Official website
Arltarlpilta Community came under the Local Government Act on 26 September 1997, combining the Atitjere, Mount Eaglebeak, Foxalls Wells, Irrelirre and Unpayekerke communities.
These proposed colonies were geometric divisions of the continent, and did not take into account soil fertility, aridity or population.
Kalisch apologised on behalf of the Bureau for the outage, stating that the site had been subject to a "malicious" denial-of-service attack and had been taken down to prevent exfiltration of census data.
Galvin joined the Australian Public Service in 1950, with a personnel cadetship that enabled him to obtain an arts degree from the University of Adelaide.
There was a swing against the Liberals of 7.9 points, but Hawke won the seat with 61.6 per cent of the vote on a two-party-preferred basis.
Pearce was elected to the House of Representatives at the 2001 Aston by-election, retaining the seat for the Liberal Party following the death of incumbent MP Peter Nugent.
He continued in the top job when the department was abolished and replaced with the Department of Industry, Technology and Regional Development in March 1993.
In those territories with an Administrator, the Administrator can be considered the indirect representative of the King in the territory.
ROKA soldiers poured through a gap under protective covering fire from Australians who were holding their section of the line despite heavy pressure.
He was wounded in action by enemy shelling in December, but was able to rejoin his unit in Egypt the following month.
After graduating from the University of Sydney with an agricultural science degree, he moved to the Territory of New Guinea in 1936 to become an Agricultural Officer.
It was then recreated ahead of the 1903 election, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
The Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (DAFF) is a department of the Australian Government that was created on 1 July 2022.
History The council was established in 1883 from a western portion of the District Council of Echunga and an eastern portion of the District Council of Mitcham.
The act selected the Yass-Queanbeyan region as the site for Canberra, the new capital city of Australia.
The seat was created ahead of the Assembly's first election held in 1856, and was abolished at the 1903 election, when it was merged with neighbouring Richmond into the new district of Monmouth.
It is modelled on the equivalent commands in the United States and British military forces, and is led by a major general as Special Operations Commander Australia (SOCAUST).
The bill lapsed with the prorogation of Parliament for the 2013 Australian federal election and has not been reintroduced.
The AusInfo letter, said that the "Attorney-General's Department wants all copies recalled" and asked that copies of the report be returned to AusInfo.
References National Archives of Australia Documenting Democracy - Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 Seat of Government Acceptance Act, Austlii
The court may decline to make any orders, leaving the legal and equitable interests of the parties as they were.
Although based in Canberra, the AMC was able to conduct trials anywhere in Australian territories and overseas in operational areas where Australian forces were serving.
He stayed at the Communications Department in the Secretary role as its functions expanded, first becoming the Department of Communications and the Arts in 1994, and later the Department of Communications, Information Technology and the Arts in 1998.
The organisation is owned by the Australian Institute of Petroleum and is financed by nine participating oil companies and other industry-related companies.
This book was shortlisted for the 2014 ACT Book of the Year Award and won the 2014 ACT Writing and Publishing Awards: Poetry Book Category.
The department existed between November 1976 and November 1980, operating under the Fraser government.
A vote of 94 was required, so that if at least 94 of the 95 Labor parliamentarians supported the bills, each would be passed.
The two departments merged in 1921 to form the second Department of Defence, regarded as a separate body.
David Miller (1857 – 1934) was a senior Australian Commonwealth public servant, appointed in the year of Federation to head the Department of Home Affairs.
In Queensland, plurality block voting (also referred to as first-past-the-post by the Electoral Commission) is used.
List of constitutions The following is a list of the current constitutions of the six states of Australia.
Joseph Lyons (1932–1939) Frank Forde (1945); born to Irish Catholic parents, Forde was educated at Christian Brothers' school in Toowoomba.
The electoral district of Brighton was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
He worked as a barrister and solicitor for the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, and as a senior policy adviser and legal officer for the Attorney-General's department, the Department of Transport and Regional Services, and the Australian Antarctic Division.
Originally it was understood by the mainstream population as a need for acceptance that many members of the Australian community originally came from different cultures and still had ties to it.
He gave evidence before a Royal Commission on the migration of troublesome convicts from Western Australia to South Australia, and the effect on the crime rate.
Uses elsewhere The term has been used by various other governments in relation to unconventional circumstances where a head of state is required to make use of reserve powers.
Iran In August 2024, ASIO director Mike Burgess claimed that Iran had been one of "three or four" foreign countries spying on and attempting to intimidate diaspora communities in Australia.
Its primary source information includes legislation, treaties and decisions of courts and tribunals.
In criminal cases the concept is used both as a form of bail when a person has been charged but not tried and also when a person has been found guilty at trial as an incentive not to commit further misconduct.
The prosecutor dropped the charge but proceeded on a charge of sending blasphemous materials through the mail.
The Department of the Arts, Sport, the Environment, Tourism and Territories was an Australian government department that existed between July 1987 and December 1991.
He was Secretary of the Department of Supply and Shipping (1946–1948) and later the Department of Supply (1953–1959).
Miller retired officially from Canberra in his final position as Secretary of the Department of Works and Railways in August 1917.
All other senior RAAF commanders who were veteran pilots of World War I, with the exception of the-then Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Jones, were also dismissed, ostensibly to make way for the advancement of younger officers.
On return to Australia in 1973 he joined the National Pipeline Authority under energy minister Rex Connor.
The authors added that "it is now clear that none of the arguments for retaining a law of blasphemy are sufficiently strong to support this view and each of them is outweighed by other considerations which persuade us that a law of blasphemy is not a necessary part of a criminal code.
They therefore do not bind State parliaments to the same degree that the Commonwealth constitution binds the Australian Government.
Stirling council annexed a northerly-adjacent portion of the District Council of Crafers when it was abolished in 1935, enlarging the council area in a region of high population growth.
He later served as Deputy Mayor from 2022–2023 and again from 2024–2025, before stepping into the role of Acting Mayor between June and September 2025.
David Evans was employed by the office from 1999 to 2005 to conduct carbon accounting and to build models.
It was temporarily abolished at the 1886 election when neighbouring seats absorbed its area and became two-member seats.
EMA is made up of the Crisis Management Branch, Disaster Recovery Branch, and the Disaster Preparedness Branch.
Proposed Changes to the Constituation The proposal was to alter section 51 of the Constitution as follows: Section fifty-one of the Constitution is altered— industry and Commerce.
The administrative head of the department is the Secretary of the Department of Finance, presently Matt Yannopoulos, who reports to the Federal Minister for Finance, presently Senator Katy Gallagher.
History The agency was responsible for administering the Energy Star program in Australia and provided funds for a fuel cell bus trial in Perth.
govdex provides a mechanism for the definition, and on-going development of the meta-data, common data dictionaries, and taxonomies that form the basis of a semantic framework.
In the 2002 Australia Day Honours Christie was made a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) in recognition of his "service to public administration, particularly transport management in New South Wales".
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Services came under fire from the media in 2004 when its benefactor, the CEO of ATSIC, Geoff Clark, faced rape allegations.
Question Do you approve of the proposed law for the alteration of the Constitution entitled 'Constitution Alteration (Industry and Commerce) 1926'?
She holds a Masters in Public Affairs from Princeton University and a Bachelor of Economics from the Australian National University.
The hotline was established following the 2002 Bali bombings, in which 202 people were killed, including 88 Australians.
By 1960, 20,800 km of controlled levelling had been completed with the addition of the Northern Territory and Queensland state authorities.
The website of the Supreme Court of New South Wales describes tipstaff positions as "extremely popular and therefore highly competitive" and that applicants are expected to have "a strong academic record".
In the Turnbull government he was appointed Assistant Minister for Defence from 21 September 2015; and between 18 February 2016 and 20 December 2017, Chester served as the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport following a rearrangement in the First Turnbull Ministry.
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973, which was included despite some uncertainty as to whether the provisions of Section 57 had been met.
Meagher, Gummow & Lehane's Equity: Doctrines and Remedies is a scholarly legal text originally composed by three Australian judges, Roddy Meagher, William Gummow and John Lehane.
Labor leader Kevin Rudd made reference to the phrase and to Menzies in the lead-up to the 2007 federal election for a perceived current generation of "Forgotten People".
He remains a member of the Liberal Party campaign Committee, and a Delegate to the Liberal Party State Council.
The magazine was conceptualised by Grace Perry to be international while maintaining an Australian presence.
Walsh was educated at the Hutchins School, and then attended the University of Tasmania, from which he graduated with degrees in Arts and Law.
The issue was raised again in January 2009, when a private member's bill to amend the Act of Succession was introduced in parliament.
Paul Raymond Henderson (born 15 August 1962) is a former Australian politician who was Chief Minister of the Northern Territory from 2007 to 2012.
The Rural City of Murray Bridge is a local government area of South Australia, centred on the regional city of Murray Bridge and stretching south to Lake Alexandrina.
He later served as director-general of the Department of Public Works, head of the Roads & Traffic Authority, head of transport for the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games, and Co-ordinator General of the state's rail industry before retiring in June 2001.
In 2006, Schubert received an honorary doctorate from James Cook University as recognition for his management of environmental assets in North Queensland.
In October 2006, Cobb sparked controversy after reports that he had allegedly stated at a meeting of disability service advocates that he would "get rid of" a child who had a disability.
She was Counsellor (Public Affairs) for the Public Affairs section of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta at the time of her death.
Despite their Meteors having inferior maneuverability to the Soviet-built MiGs, the Australian pilots managed to score their first victories of the Korean War, for the loss of three aircraft.
Awards While Deputy Secretary of the Defence Production Department in January 1957, Knott was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire.
How do you plead: Representing yourself when charged with drink-driving in New South Wales local courts (with Helen Walsh).
The Scottish Parliament unanimously passed a motion in 1999 calling for the complete removal of any discrimination linked to the monarchy and the repeal of the Act of Settlement.
Born in Melbourne, Canada East, the son of Melbourne McTaggart Tait, Tait entered the service of the Grand Trunk Railway in 1880, and by 1903 he was manager of transportation with Canadian Pacific Railway company.
As of 2026, Australian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 182 countries and territories, ranking the Australian passport 7th in the world according to the Henley Passport Index.
Eligible people, for example those with a disability, can purchase a key that opens all accessible toilets displaying the MLAK symbol.
For supporting incumbent McCormack in the 2021 Nationals leadership spill, Chester was stripped of his ministerial portfolios by new leader Joyce.
Recognition Knibbs was created a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in 1911 and was knighted in 1923.
COMDISPLAN is normally activated when Commonwealth assistance for emergency response or short-term recovery is requested or likely to be requested.
The Incident Response Group had received extensive training to build its capabilities in preparation for the meeting from SOCOMD units and the New Zealand Special Operations Component Command.
Sir Leo had more than fifty years' experience in the areas of government, the banking and finance industry, domestic and global financial markets, superannuation industry and as an independent Company Director.
In July 2013, Bird was appointed as the Minister for Regional Development, the Minister for Regional Communications and the Minister for Road Safety in the Second Rudd Ministry.
Such members ran for office as independents or under a variety of political labels but saw themselves as linked to other candidates by their support for a particular premier or government.
The National Centre for Vocational Education Research (NCVER) is an Australian non-profit that promotes research on the vocational education and training (VET) sector in Australia, and acts as a funding body for research in that field.
The AMOSplan is voluntary mutual aid arrangement where oil company equipment may be shared to best respond to a spill.
His son Tristram and daughters Emily and Fanny and a female relative escaped serious injury, and their maid servant, Miss Chew, sustained a broken arm.
Victoria As a result of the Local Government Act 2020, all rural-based councils in Victoria now have the option to become undivided or have equal-sized multi-member wards.
COAG differed from the United States' National Governors Association or Canada's Council of the Federation, because these bodies only include state/provincial representatives, whereas COAG also included federal and local representatives.
The second series was also filmed in Sydney with some scenes filmed in Canberra, and aired on the 12th of June 2023 on ABC Me and ABC iview.
He submitted the Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Transport to and from Tasmania in 1976, and it became known as the Nimmo Report.
The Department of Workplace Relations and Small Business was an Australian government department that existed between July 1997 and October 1998.
Qualification is based on terms (geographical location) set by the Exceptional Circumstances Relief Payments program.
Establishment The Australian Military Court was created when the Parliament of Australia passed the Defence Legislation Amendment Bill 2006, adding Section 114 to the Defence Force Discipline Act 1982, and commenced on 1 October 2007.
See also Federal Register of Legislation (Australian Government's online register of federal legislation) Free Access to Law Movement Legal Information Institute References External links Australasian Legal Information Institute
See also Translink Transport in Brisbane References External links Department of Transport and Main Roads
Prior to 2009 and since 2024, the Commissioner managed their own Department of Corrective Services, known from 1 October 2024 as Corrective Services NSW.
Philipp, Notes on the Study of Australian Colonial Architecture, "Historical Studies – Australia and New Zealand", Vol.
The long-term strategy of the Office was to improve the access of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples to comprehensive primary health care services.
The term is commonly used in Australia, where it has been applied in various contexts, most recognizably in relation to special consideration policies for students and drought relief payments for farmers known as Exceptional Circumstances Relief Payments or ECRP.
On 13 February 1990, Headquarters Special Forces was established, which was renamed in 1997 to Headquarters Special Operations and in 2003 to Special Operations Headquarters or SOCOMD.
As of 2014 the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) has been responsible for Australia's official development assistance (foreign aid) to developing countries.
The seat was created ahead of the Assembly's first election held in 1856, and was abolished at the 1903 election, when it was merged with the neighbouring seats of Campbell Town and the northern part of Glamorgan into the new district of Cambria.
The department was established on 1 July 2022, superseding the water and environment functions from the Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment and energy functions from the Department of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources.
It was established on 25 May 1876 as the Corporate Town of Mount Gambier, and became the City of Mount Gambier when it gained city status in 1955.
The Hawke government was the last Australian Government to operate within the international climate of the Cold War, which came to a conclusion in the aftermath of the 1989 Fall of the Berlin Wall.
It found that, as the Act of Settlement is part of the Canadian constitution, the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, as another part of the same constitution, does not have supremacy over it.
She has also served on the Australian Commission for Law Enforcement Integrity since 2016, and the Law Enforcement Committee since 2019.
Refugee intake In 2015 Laundy was shown photographs of a dead Syrian toddler fleeing the Syrian civil war by his daughter at the dinner table, which brought him and the rest of his family to tears.
In December 2024, Pitt announced he would be quitting parliament, criticising party leader David Littleproud for being "too obedient" to the Liberal Party.
Canada In Canada, the Chief Justice has a dormant commission to act as Administrator of the Government of Canada in the absence of the Governor General of Canada.
History It was established on 1 November 1997 with the amalgamation of the City of Kensington and Norwood, the City of Payneham and the Town of St Peters.
He played for Toowong in Brisbane district cricket and in 1903 he scored 233 for the club against South Brisbane, setting the record highest individual score in Queensland district cricket.
Clement Wilks (15 February 1819 – 2 May 1871) was a civil engineer and architect in colonial Victoria, Australia.
The Petrovs had been sent to the Canberra embassy in 1951 by the Soviet security chief, Lavrentiy Beria.
On 1 July 2008, the community was merged into the Central Desert Shire, although the Community Government Council remained in existence as a Local Board, which meets at Atitjere.
His residency was the first permanent building in Canberra and he was responsible for conducting an international design competition for establishing the national capital.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Prime Minister of Australia of the day, John Gorton.
In June 2021, the Australian and UK governments announced that their reciprocal working holiday scheme would soon be expanded to allow citizens of both countries aged 18 to 35 live and work in the other country for up to three years.
McBurney was named the All Australian Umpire for the 2003 and 2007 seasons and umpired the AFL Grand Final in 2002, 2003, 2007 and 2009.
Elizabeth Josephine "Liz" O'Neill (19 March 1969 – 7 March 2007) was an Australian public servant and diplomat.
Assessment and ratings Under the NQF, regulatory authorities conduct assessments of approved education and care services against the criteria.
Over the years, differences of application have emerged in Australia's tests for causation, duty of care, calculation of damages, amongst other areas.
Makassan trepangers (along with shipwrecked Dutch sailors) made contact with Indigenous Australians along the northern coast of Australia during the 17th and mid-18th centuries, although this did not lead to permanent settlement.
List of ministers for health 1 Ministerial role expanded on 19 October 2000 to include Housing, as well as Health and Community Care.
In Australian local government, an undivided council (also referred to as unsubdivided, a single ward or an at-large ward) is a council that does not have any wards, meaning all councillors are elected in a single area representing the entire local government area (LGA).
History The council was established on 27 April 1854, bringing local government to the western half of the Hundred of Munno Para, the District Council of Munno Para East having been formed the year before.
He later attended the University of Queensland, where he earned a BA in 1966 and an LLB(Hons) in 1969, and the London School of Economics, where he earned an LLM in 1979.
The Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme is an Australian Government scheme to provide financial assistance to shippers of freight between Tasmania and mainland Australia.
History Farquhar was born on Lefevre Peninsula the eldest son of (ship's) Captain Allan Farquhar (c.
At the end of his term in November 1968, when he had been already appointed to head the Postmaster-General's Department starting the following month, Knott attended the UN World Space Conference in Vienna.
Its population centre was the town of Sorell east of Tasmania's capital, Hobart, and included the Tasman Peninsula.
It split the preceding Department of Education, Skills and Employment into the newly formed Department of Education and Department of Employment and Workplace Relations.
(Listed on the National Trust of Australia (Victoria) Register: B6439 and on the Register of the National Estate: Place 102643).
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1886 election, largely replacing the seat of Norfolk Plains, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
The creation of the department, with a Darwin-based Secretary, was seen by many as an effort to undermine the role of the Northern Territory Administrator.
Australia in the War of 1939–1945: Series Three (Air) Volume I – Royal Australian Air Force 1939–1942.
The Transforming Australia: SDG Progress Report - Update 2020 included an evaluation of the effects of COVID-19 on Australia's capacity to achieve the SDGs.
Seselja was previously a member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly from 2004 to 2013, and served as leader of the Canberra Liberals and Leader of the Opposition from 2007 to 2013.
In 1935 the council was abolished with the southern part of the Hundred of Bowhill annexed by District Council of Karoonda and the remainder amalgamated with the District Council of Angas to form the new District Council of Marne.
According to the OECD, the percentage of Australians living in poverty fell during the Hawke government's time in office, from 11.6% of the population in 1985–86 to 9.3% in 1989–90.
Private life On 17 April 1873, Anderson married Edith Sarah, daughter of William Wood, reader at the Queensland Government Printing Office.
Ministries of the Welsh Government See also List of British governments List of Northern Ireland Executives List of Scottish governments
After the war, his father handed over to him all his land, and Ormsby-Gore farmed the 400 acres (1.6 km2) of the Woodhill Estate, Oswestry, Shropshire.
Eventually, the Unionist government would falter after Chamberlain proposed his scheme for tariff reform, whose partial embrace by Balfour led to the resignation of the more orthodox free traders in the Cabinet.
Cabinet December 1834 – April 1835 List of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
After Nottingham's resignation in 1704, Godolphin and Marlborough turned for support to the "Country" Whigs, led by Speaker Robert Harley.
The Attlee government increased pensions and other benefits, with pensions raised to become more of a living income than they had ever been.
The Ministry relied on Independent and Labour support, and the former Ministerial faction opposing them gradually dissolved with members either associating with the new Government or sitting as independents.
Appointment Cabinet Deputy ministers See also Shadow Cabinet (Wales) Members of the 5th Senedd 2018 Welsh Labour leadership election 2021 Senedd election == References ==
Labour would soon ascend in the opinion polls, and the next few years brought a string of heavy defeats for the Conservatives in local council elections and parliamentary by-elections, with both Labour and the Liberal Democrats benefiting at their expense.
On 21 November 1901, following a failed attempt by Frederick Henry Piesse to form a ministry, the First Leake Ministry officially resigned and was followed by the Morgans Ministry led by Alf Morgans.
Prior to the election Cameron had led his first ministry, the Cameron–Clegg coalition, a coalition government that consisted of members of the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, with Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg as deputy prime minister.
The 1987 general election was as disappointing for the Alliance as the 1983 election and it lost one seat.
He helped to found the Camberwell Trades and Labour Council in 1913, and later became honorary Secretary of the Dulwich branch of the Independent Labour Party (ILP).
The First Commissioner of Woods and Forests, Lord Lincoln, enters the Cabinet, while Sir Edward Knatchbull, the Paymaster, leaves it.
January 2001 – Peter Mandelson is dismissed as Northern Ireland Secretary and is succeeded by John Reid.
No longer eligible to sit as a crossbencher, Owen now sits in the House of Lords as an "Independent Social Democrat".
David Lloyd George had been expected to join the government after recovering from surgery following an operation on his prostate as he was still the official leader of the Liberal party.
Initially, the government was a continuation of the previous coalition administration but lost three Peelites (William Ewart Gladstone, Sir James Graham and Sidney Herbert) within a few weeks.
The proposal did not pass, but caused tensions within the coalition which contained both proponents and opponents of political reform.
Junior Ministers Scottish Law Officers See also Premiership of Nicola Sturgeon Notes == References ==
Despite this, Tory support in the opinion polls remained relatively strong, with any Labour lead now being by the narrowest of margins, although Labour still made some gains at the expense of the Tories in local elections, and seized the Monmouth seat from the Tories in a by-election.
July 1801 – The William Cavendish-Bentinck, Duke of Portland succeeds John Pitt, Earl of Chatham as Lord President (Chatham remains Master of the Ordnance).
The Liberal government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in 1905 and ended in 1915 consisted of four ministries: the first led by Henry Campbell-Bannerman (from 1905 to 1908) and the final three by H.
This equal mix would prove difficult for the ministry, however, as strong debates occurred over the Security of the Succession, etc.
He worked as Political Secretary of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of India from 1926 to 1929, then he became a barrister-at-law at the Inner Temple in 1931.
Ministry See also 1734 British general election 1741 British general election 1742 vote of no confidence in the Walpole ministry Notes References == Further reading ==
The Irish Church The principal issue of the 1868 parliamentary session was the Irish question, manifested this time in the debate over the Anglican Church of Ireland.
Public expenditure as a share of GDP increased at around 1.5 per cent per year during the 1979–1983 period, despite the target being a reduction of one per cent, per year.
October 1927 – Lord Cushendun succeeded Lord Cecil of Chelwood as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster March 1928 – Lord Hailsham (former Sir D.
Under the Supplementary Benefit Act 1966, an owner occupier on benefits was entitled to an allowance for repairs, insurance, rates, and "reasonable" interest charges on a mortgage.
Arthur Hugh Elsdale Molson, Baron Molson, PC (29 June 1903 – 13 October 1991) was a British Conservative politician and member of the Molson family of Montreal.
February 1888 – Sir Michael Hicks Beach succeeds Lord Stanley of Preston as President of the Board of Trade.
References External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by William Adamson Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs
The Lid Lifts: An Account of the Author's Experiences During Two Visits to Occupied Germany in the Spring of 1945.
Palmerston was heavily criticised by Parliament in 1857 over the conduct of the Second Opium War and called a dissolution, but the nation voiced its support in the resulting general election and he returned with a Whig majority.
The Conservative government under Benjamin Disraeli had been defeated at the 1868 general election, so in December 1868 the victorious William Ewart Gladstone formed his first government.
See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1761 British general election Great Britain in the Seven Years' War Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
As Scottish Secretary, he presided over the last execution in Scotland when Henry John Burnett was hanged at Craiginches Prison in Aberdeen on the morning of 15 August 1963 by the hangman Harry Allen for the murder of merchant seaman Thomas Guyan.
It was formed during the 9th Parliament, after Premier James Dunsmuir resigned and named Prior as his successor.
It succeeded the Daglish Ministry on 25 August 1905 after the previous Labor minority administration fell on a vote of no confidence.
The deal also saw the Conservatives drop their 2017 manifesto commitments to pension and winter fuel allowance changes.
Notable quotations "I will look at any additional evidence to confirm the opinion to which I have already come." Arms See also Canadian peers and baronets References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Hugh Molson
The post was filled by the then Solicitor General, Colin Boyd, who was in turn replaced by Neil Davidson.
Baroness Scotland of Asthal and Lord Malloch-Brown were given the right to attend Cabinet as Attorney General and Africa, Asia and UN Minister.
Noble was the youngest son of Sir John Noble, 1st Baronet, and the grandson of Sir Andrew Noble, 1st Baronet, and was educated at Eton College and Magdalen College, Oxford.
He broadcast about the liberation of the German concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen, and wrote a book on the subject called The Lid Lifts.
He was almost a resident at the White House, being more a friend of the family than a mere ambassador.
Richard Simpson resigned from his post as Deputy Justice Minister on 26 November 2002, and was replaced by Hugh Henry.
Parliamentary Private Secretary Sir Alec Douglas-Home, who became Prime Minister in October 1963, choose Pearson to be his Parliamentary Private Secretary, an unpaid but pivotal role where Pearson had to maintain relations between the Prime Minister and his own backbenchers.
The second McConnell government (20 May 2003 – 16 May 2007) was formed following the 2003 general election to the 2nd Scottish Parliament.
The office of Prime Minister Lord Salisbury was the second and last person to be head of government while not simultaneously holding the title of First Lord of the Treasury.
The Michael administration was formed by Alun Michael following the 1999 National Assembly for Wales election and was a Labour minority administration.
Farron confirmed this stance on 9 June 2017, the day after the 2017 general election, which resulted in the Conservatives losing their majority.
His successor in the office is not a Cabinet member Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
Alun Davies was sacked from the government on 8 July 2014, his responsibilities were temporarily restructured with some going to Rebecca Evans who joined the government as a junior minister.
On his retirement from the cabinet in 1968, he was appointed a Member of the Order of the Companions of Honour.
See also History of the United Kingdom during the First World War § Lloyd George as Prime Minister References Further reading Burk.
On 3 May 1974 Noble was elevated with a life peerage as Baron Glenkinglas, of Cairndow in the County of Argyll.
Conservative MPs elected Chancellor of the Exchequer, John Major as their new leader on 27 November 1990, and he was invited by the Queen to form a majority government the following day.
Cabinet May 2011 to September 2012 September 2012 to November 2014 Junior ministers Scottish law officers == References ==
It was agreed that Parliament would be dissolved on 15 June and the election would be held on 5 July.
Harold Wilson and Europe: Pursuing Britain's Membership of the European Community (IB Tauris, 2007).
As a result, he suddenly and unexpectedly inherited the family peerages and estates, except for the Lordship of Nairne, which under Scottish law went to the 7th Marquess's sister Katherine Evelyn Constance Bigham (1912–1995).
A Companion to Early Twentieth-Century Britain (Blackwell, 2003); 32 essays by experts, on 1900–1939, with emphasis on historiography.
She also appointed Vikki Howells as Minister for Further and Higher Education, and added Culture and Skills to Jack Sargeant's portfolios, alongside Social Partnership.
Peel was in Sardinia at the time, so the Duke of Wellington took control of the government in a caretaker capacity until Peel returned and was able to form his government on 10 December.
In late 1981, the SDP formed the SDP–Liberal Alliance with the Liberal Party to strengthen both parties' chances in the UK's "first past the post" electoral system.
Cabinet December 1868 – February 1874 Notes † The Earl de Grey was created the Marquess of Ripon in 1871.
Notes Other uses of the term The term has since been used in politics to describe an administration with members from more than one party or even a non-coalition government that enjoys cross-party support due to gifted and/or non-partisan members.
In return, they (and the wives of male contributors) were eligible for flat-rate pensions, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, and funeral benefit.
Cabinet Junior ministers Retirement of Rhodri Morgan See also Members of the 3rd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
The Baldwin Age (1960), essays by scholars 252 pages; online Archived 10 October 2019 at the Wayback Machine Smart, Nick.
Michael German, Deputy First Minister and Minister for Rural Affairs and Wales Abroad June 2002 to May 2003.
Victor Alexander George Anthony Warrender, 1st Baron Bruntisfield, (23 June 1899 – 14 January 1993), known as Sir Victor Warrender, Bt, between 1917 and 1942, was a British Conservative politician.
Two years previously, Lord Hyde (later Earl of Clarendon) had been appointed Lord Chancellor, and in 1660, he was joined by several other powerful statesmen, including the heir presumptive of the English throne, the Duke of York.
On 4 January 1687 James II dismissed Rochester and his brother the Earl of Clarendon, replacing both with Catholic appointees, Lord Belasyse (aged 72) and Lord Arundell (aged 79).
He could not continue as Leader of the House of Lords, having ceased to be a member of it, but was made Minister for Education in April 1964.
It was led by the two Pelham brothers in Parliament, Prime Minister Henry Pelham in the House of Commons and Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle in the House of Lords.
Background and education Dundee was the elder son of Colonel Henry Scrymgeour-Wedderburn, de jure 10th Earl of Dundee, and Edith, daughter of John Moffat.
In the Conservative–Liberal Democrat coalition agreement of 11 May 2010, the two parties formed a coalition government.
In 1900 he joined the 1st London Rifle Volunteers (territorial army) as a major, rising to the rank of colonel and commanding officer.
The agreement will see both parties pledge for a second referendum on Scottish independence, an increase investment in active travel and public transport, enhancing tenants rights, a ten-year £500m Just Transition and establishing a National Care Service.
However, following her death, Bedford married Jacquetta of Luxembourg, which the Duke of Burgundy disapproved of and Burgundy made peace with France.
Ashdown, a strong proponent of a Lib–Lab coalition, said that from Blair's point of view, in order to get the Conservatives out of power and because he wanted to move his party towards the New Labour ideal, a coalition would strengthen his majority in the likely event of a victory.
The government included several men from the previous administration, but four of the most important, Lords Dudley and Palmerston and Messrs Huskisson and Grant, resigned in May 1828.
The chancellor served as Keeper of the Great Seal, presided over the Privy Council and Parliament, and led the High Court of Chancery.
Samuel George Mercer Nairne (born 1976); married Claire Aussudre, and has two sons (born 2009 and 2011) and one daughter.
History Formation of government In the May 2016 Scottish Parliament election, the Scottish National Party (SNP) won 63 of the 129 seats contested.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
April 1939 – Leslie Burgin becomes Minister without Portfolio pending the legislation to create the Ministry of Supply.
He served as Secretary of State for War from 1951 to 1956 and as Minister of Defence (with a seat in the cabinet) from 1956 to 1957, in the administrations of Winston Churchill and Anthony Eden.
The Ulster Unionist Party (UUP), Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) and Alliance Party of Northern Ireland returned to the Executive, having been absent since 2016; Alliance's Naomi Long obtained the cross-community vote to become Minister for Justice.
This Ministry ran until Morgan formed a coalition government with the Liberal Democrats in October 2000.
The ministry was replaced by the Reid ministry on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
He was the first Tory prime minister since the Harley ministry during 1710–1714 though his ministry was largely made up of Whigs.
Mark Harper replaced Gove as Chief Whip, whilst Matthew Hancock became the new Minister for the Cabinet Office, being replaced by Anna Soubry as Minister of State for Small Business, Industry and Enterprise.
He supervised 50,000 employees and over a thousand local offices where people could obtain ration cards.
While the term was in common parlance in the 19th and early 20th centuries, it has become rarer, except in official and academic uses.
Unemployment rose significantly, but when Wilson called a general election for June 1970, the opinion polls all pointed towards a third successive Labour victory.
He is succeeded at the Board of Trade by William Huskisson 1823 – Lord Maryborough, the Master of the Mint, leaves the Cabinet.
Edward Heath of the Conservative Party formed the Heath ministry and was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by Queen Elizabeth II on 19 June 1970, following the general election of the previous day.
On 30 July 1954, he was created Baron Glassary, of Glassary in the County of Argyll, in the Peerage of the United Kingdom, giving him an automatic seat in the House of Lords (not guaranteed by his Scottish peerages).
The Labour Party chose to go into minority government, and Rhodri Morgan was re-elected first minister on 26 May 2007.
Five more of the original Alliance Government MPs have announced they would not be seeking reelection.
This is a list of all Welsh Government ministerial teams which have existed since the introduction of devolution for Wales in 1999.
The Walpole ministry was led by Whig Prime Minister Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford, from 1730 to 1742—when Walpole left the government.
He served as Northern Secretary throughout until his resignation, having been the mainstay of whom the respective prime ministers were dependent for support.
The government was also supported by the sole Welsh Liberal Democrat MS Kirsty Williams and the independent MS Dafydd Elis-Thomas.
The union strikes affected Britain during the Winter of Discontent (1978–1979) as public services ground to a halt.
Incumbent First Minister Nicola Sturgeon soon afterwards announced her intention to form a minority government.
Creech Jones took over at a time when the tensions in Palestine were increasing, and he frequently appealed to moderate Jewish leaders to restrain the more violent.
Cabinet Changes May 2002 – Stephen Byers resigns and the Department of Transport, Local Government & the Regions is broken up.
Edward Heath, the Conservative Prime Minister, attempted to negotiate a coalition agreement with the Liberal Party, but resigned as prime minister after failing to do so.
His successor at the ensuing byelection was Norman Lamont, the future Chancellor of the Exchequer under John Major.
Smethwick had been a focus of immigration from the Commonwealth but the economic and industrial growth of the years following the Second World War were coupled with local factory closures, an ageing population and a lack of modern housing.
4th Executive of Northern Ireland See also List of Northern Ireland Executives Members of the Northern Ireland Assembly elected in 2016 == References ==
In 1931, the situation deteriorated and there was much fear that the budget was unbalanced, which was borne out by the independent May Report which triggered a confidence crisis and a run on the pound.
The Rule of Democracy, 1905–1914 (vol 6 of "History of the English People, 1905–1914") (1934); online Hay, James Roy.
August 1877: George Ward Hunt dies and is succeeded as First Lord of the Admiralty by William Henry Smith.
The Foxites allied with the supporters of Lord North to bring down the government, and the Fox–North coalition came to power in April 1783.
Both parties' ministers shared collective responsibility for the government's positions, although the coalition agreement detailed several issues on which the parties agreed to differ; the Liberal Democrats abstained from voting in such cases.
History Formation The Duke of Wellington finally came to power after the abortive attempt at a Canningite-Whig coalition government came to an end with Viscount Goderich's resignation in January 1828.
"MacDonald's Parties: The Labour Party and the 'Aristocratic Embrace' 1922–31," Twentieth Century British History (2007) 18#1 pp 1–53.
2 Richard Pennefather had served as Attorney-General since 27 October 1897 as part of the Forrest Ministry.
The second Stanhope–Sunderland ministry (1718–1721) was a continuation of the British Whig government headed by Charles Spencer, 3rd Earl of Sunderland and James Stanhope, 1st Earl Stanhope.
Subsequently, two Liberal ministers, Alec Glassey and John Pybus, defected to the Liberal Nationals.
July 1865 – Robert Rolfe, 1st Baron Cranworth succeeds Lord Westbury as Lord Chancellor The Earl Russell's Cabinet, October 1865 – June 1866 Changes February 1866: The Lord de Grey succeeds Sir Charles Wood as Secretary for India.
In 1937, Irvine stood as a Liberal candidate at Bethnal Green North East in the London County Council elections.
This article details the third Thatcher ministry which she led at the invitation of Queen Elizabeth II from 1987 to 1990.
The money lent under the Advances to Workers Act 1906 led to the construction of 9,675 houses by 1919.
Sir Arthur James Irvine, QC PC (14 July 1909 – 15 December 1978) was a British barrister and politician.
Lauderdale retained his position and his relatively autonomous power in Scotland, becoming an enemy of Shaftesbury.
The National Insurance (Unemployment and Sickness Benefit) Amendment Regulations 1966 provided that where a person's employment has been terminated, payments from the employer (other than wages in lieu of notice) do not affect entitlement to unemployment benefit.
Joe FitzPatrick's local government position was abolished, and he therefore departed government along with Equalities Minister Emma Roddick and Parliamentary Business Minister George Adam.
It is also the last time in Canadian political history that a lieutenant governor dismissed a premier.
Intensive talks resumed in December 2019 following the 2019 UK General Election with a new deadline of 13 January 2020 for fresh assembly elections set by Secretary of State Julian Smith.
This was the first time a deputy first minister had been appointed to the Welsh Government since Ieuan Wyn Jones in 2007.
Only four members of the Cabinet (Derby himself, St Leonards, Lonsdale, and Herries) were existing Privy Councillors and many others were complete political unknowns.
Senior ministers in the cabinet were once again named "cabinet secretaries" with junior ministers referred to as "ministers", as they were in Carwyn Jones's third government.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
In later life, Molson was Chairman (1968–71) and President (1971–80) of the Council for the Protection of Rural England.
He is also said to be the first politician Margaret Thatcher looked up to before beginning her career in politics.
December 1933 – Stanley Baldwin ceases to be Lord Privy Seal, and his successor in that office is not in the cabinet.
Membership Shown here is a table showing the main membership of the Danby Ministry for its duration.
In popular culture Ormsby-Gore was portrayed by Peter Donat in the 1974 television play The Missiles of October, which was about the October 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis.
Living conditions were poor; instead of expansion, the country's task was to replace the national wealth destroyed or used up during the war.
Keith, British Historical Facts 1830–1900 External links "Lord Derby looses bigotry on the streets".
Lady Georgina Elizabeth Petty-Fitzmaurice (1950–2022); married Guy Hamilton in 1974 (divorced 1980), and married Robert Eric Miller in 1981 (divorced 1990).
Returning to Downing Street, MacDonald attended what would be the Labour cabinet’s last meeting, informing members of what had been discussed.
The nominal head of the ministry was Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, until his death in 1743.
References Times Guide to the House of Commons 1979 External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Joseph Godber Portraits of Joseph Godber at the National Portrait Gallery, London
On 25 August 1905, the Governor, Admiral Sir Frederick Bedford, designated 6 principal executive offices of the Government under section 43(2) of the Constitution Acts Amendment Act 1899.
Leading members See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1757 in Great Britain Notes References Works cited == Further reading ==
On 6 April 1757, following Pitt's opposition to the execution of Admiral John Byng, the King (who distrusted Pitt) dismissed him and his brother-in-law Lord Temple, who had been First Lord of the Admiralty.
Two members of the National Assembly were elected to the UK Parliament at the 2005 UK general election (David Davies and Peter Law) reducing the collective strength of the opposition for day-to-day business.
This is a list of the principal Ministers of the Crown of the Kingdom of England, and then of the Kingdom of Great Britain, from May 1702, at the beginning of the reign of Queen Anne.
The Conservative Government of the United Kingdom that began in 1922 and ended in 1924 consisted of two ministries: the Law ministry (from 1922 to 1923) and then the first Baldwin ministry (from 1923 onwards).
The Labour Party in Scotland was defeated by the SNP with the SNP winning 47 seats to Labour's 46, leaving the SNP short of an overall majority in the Parliament.
It was led by William Ewart Gladstone of the Liberal Party upon his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by Queen Victoria.
He was swiftly named as an Assistant Government Whip (1960) and became a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury (Government Whip) in March 1962.
April 1882: Earl Spencer becomes Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, but retains his seat in the cabinet and his position as Lord President.
A new coalition government (the coalition used the term government rather than administration; officially referred to as the Coalition Partnership) was officially announced on 5 October 2000 with policy details emerging the day later.
Military career A career soldier, Head was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 15th/19th The King's Royal Hussars on 30 August 1926.
Charles Townshend, 2nd Viscount Townshend, was appointed Secretary of State for the Northern Department by George I of Great Britain in September 1714.
Rosen, Greg (ed.) Dictionary of Labour Biography, London: Politicos Publishing 2001; ISBN 978-1-902301-18-1 Shepherd, John.
It succeeded the First Leake Ministry on 21 November 1901, and was followed by the Second Leake Ministry on 23 December 1901.
They had three children: John Warrender, 2nd Baron Bruntisfield (7 February 1921 – 14 July 2007) Simon George Warrender (11 August 1922 – 8 May 2011), married Pamela Myer – built Bruntisfield House Melbourne and had issue – Edwina Jane Maitland (11 Dec.
Henry Goulburn was Chancellor of the Exchequer, the future Prime Minister Lord Aberdeen Foreign Secretary and Sir James Graham Home Secretary.
On 29 June 2017, the DUP and Sinn Féin had both announced that they had not come to an agreement to form the next Northern Ireland Executive.
The Rockingham Whigs had generally been sympathetic to the cause of the Colonists and under Rockingham the British government began the negotiations leading to the Peace of Paris that concluded the war.
Supporting these peers were two unofficial whips in the House of Lords: the earls of Sunderland and Portland.
Former Commons Chief Whip Jacqui Smith was given a substantial promotion as the first female Home Secretary and was replaced by Geoff Hoon, who was promoted from being the Europe Minister.
The ministry is chiefly remembered for Gladstone's first attempt to introduce the Home Rule Bill for Ireland.
Following the vote to leave at the EU referendum on the morning of 24 June, Cameron said that he would resign as prime minister after a new Leader of the Conservative Party was chosen after the party conference in the autumn.
According to Alistair Cooke, Baron Lexden, a Conservative member of the House of Lords, Nicholls had an affair with the Russian spy John Vassall.
History Following the split in the Tory Party over the Corn Laws in 1846 and the consequent end of Sir Robert Peel's second government, the Whigs came to power under Lord John Russell.
Sir Robert Peel's first government succeeded the caretaker ministry of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington.
The Reid ministry succeeded the Watson ministry, which dissolved on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support and Chris Watson was forced to resign.
However, it only lasted two days, collapsing on 12 February (even before all the ministers could be appointed), and Pelham was reappointed by George II to resume the Broad Bottom ministry on 14 February.
However Russia's ambassador Semyon Vorontsov organised Pitt's enemies and launched a public opinion campaign.
After the official Liberal Party withdrew from the latter government in 1933, another faction, the National Liberals, remained in coalition with the Conservatives.
Cabinet Changes January 1887 a Liberal Unionist, George Goschen, joined the ministry, succeeding Churchill as Chancellor of the Exchequer.[C.
The Conservative government of the United Kingdom that began in 1957 and ended in 1964 consisted of three ministries: the first Macmillan ministry, second Macmillan ministry, and then the Douglas-Home ministry.
Notably for the first time in the assembly's history, parties entitled to seats on the executive could instead opt to go into formal opposition.
References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities Notes
When this led to an attempt to replace the conciliatory Southern Secretary, Lord Shelburne, Chatham finally roused himself enough to resign from his position as Lord Privy Seal, leaving Grafton as the nominal as well as real head of a ministry in which the Bedford faction was now stronger than ever.
History The Whig elite rose to government ascendancy while Lord Danby held office through three shortly-spaced changes of sovereign (dating to the royal-dominated ministries of Charles II).
While on leave from the Navy, Callaghan was selected as a Parliamentary candidate for Cardiff South: he narrowly won the local party ballot with twelve votes, against the next highest candidate George Thomas, who received eleven.
Theresa May formed the first May ministry in the United Kingdom on 13 July 2016, after having been invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government.
Cabinet Ministers not in Cabinet Thomas Robinson, 2nd Baron Grantham – First Lord of Trade Isaac Barré – Treasurer of the Navy Thomas Townshend – Secretary at War Edmund Burke – Paymaster of the Forces William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland – Lord Lieutenant of Ireland == References ==
He was later High Commissioner to Nigeria from 1960 to 1963 and High Commissioner to Malaysia from 1963 to 1966, where he unsuccessfully attempted to negotiate Singapore's continued status as part of Malaysia.
It was this government which would conduct the Second Boer War from 1899–1902, which helped them to win a landslide victory at the 1900 general election.
Ministers not in Cabinet Lord Chamberlain – William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland == References ==
Who?" ministry, a short-lived British Conservative government which was in power for a matter of months in 1852.
late January 1986 – Paul Channon succeeded Leon Brittan as Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
First term 2007–2011 Cabinet appointments and changes On the same day of Salmond's appointment, he began making appointments to the Scottish Cabinet.
Carwyn Jones was re-elected First Minister in May 2011 and continued to serve up to and beyond the 2016 election.
Sir Francis Fenwick Pearson, 1st Baronet, (13 June 1911 – 17 February 1991) was a British colonial administrator, farmer and politician.
In foreign affairs, the government was active in the United Nations and negotiated a $5 billion loan from the United States and Canada in 1946.
Ministry As compared to the 20th and 21st century, when ministers hold a cabinet-level position under the British prime minister, it is unclear which of the following ministers, beyond Pitt, functionally acted as members of Prime Minister Newcastle's cabinet.
However, during the 1970s, there were allegations that the RCMP Security Service – the predecessor to CSIS – had been involved in numerous illegal activities.
The Information Commissioner of Canada is an independent ombudsman and an officer of parliament of Canada who reports directly to the House of Commons of Canada and the Senate of Canada.
But, since the building has been renamed, media usually simply speak of staff "in the prime minister's office".
List of ministers Key: References External links Department of Foreign Affairs: History: Introduction Department of Foreign Affairs Canada
The 11th Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan was elected in the Saskatchewan general election held in June 1948.
The Ceremony of the Flags (French: Cérémonie des drapeaux) (abbreviated as C of Fs) is a Canadian military music event usually held by unit of the Royal Canadian Navy.
Abuse of process – A malicious and deliberate misuse or perversion of regularly issued court process not justified by the underlying legal action.
History Construction of the armoury began in September 1932 and was completed in the following spring.
Legislative functions Laws, known in their draft form as bills, may be introduced by any member of either house.
Function The TBS assists the Treasury Board, which functions as the government's management committee by overseeing the operations of the federal government as a whole and serving as the principal employer of the core public administration.
Despite the fact that the Progressive Conservatives ended up winning one more seat than his party, premier Brian Gallant sought and received permission to attempt to form a government.
265(2) provides that this definition of assault applies to all forms of assault, including the sexual assault offences.
The building is listed on the Vancouver inventory of heritage buildings as a "B" Category and is classed as a "Registered" building by the Federal Heritage Buildings Review Office.
Prior to the agency's renaming in 1998, the position was termed Minister responsible for the Federal Office of Regional Development – Quebec.
Mission in New York City covers Canada, has an honorary consul in Toronto Botswana, embassy in Washington D.C.
Public debt charges that had reached a peak of about "30 percent in the mid-1990s" were down to "6.7 per cent of expenses in 2018–19." The report said there was strong growth in most regions of the world in 2016 and 2017 and that global economic expansion was more moderate in 2018.
Victor Charles Goldbloom (July 31, 1923 – February 15, 2016) was a Canadian pediatrician, lecturer, and politician.
It was dissolved by the government of Jean Chrétien in 1995, and replaced by an Advisory Committee on Science and Technology.
A Marine Wildlife Area is a conservation designation for a marine geographical region of Canada that restricts most human activities on that region.
Role Certain activities carried out by CSIS and the CSE must be authorized by their ministers, the Minister of Public Safety and Minister of National Defence, respectively.
The position was created in 1981 assuming some of the responsibilities previously exercised by the Postmaster General of Canada.
Of these 232 live on one of the band's own reserves (115 male, 117 female), 51 live on reserves administered by another band (25 male, 26 female), while 196 live off-reserve (91 male, 105 female).
David Eby KC MLA) The Chief Justice of British Columbia (Leonard Marchand Jr.) Former Lieutenant Governors of British Columbia (by seniority of assuming office) Hon.
CCOG meets twice a year to discuss programs, developments, legislation, and issues relevant to geomatics.
Although police and city officials claimed the bylaws to be effective, they were found to be unconstitutional.
In addition, private members' bills must undergo a preliminary reading, while government bills go to first reading directly when they are introduced.
A principal role of the department is assisting the government in the development of its annual budget.
The 10th General Assembly of Prince Edward Island represented the colony of Prince Edward Island between November 3, 1818, and 1820.
Increases were seen in the proportion of murders committed by methods other than shooting; but these homicides were less likely to involve multiple victims.
A., the recurring danger of the trial process becoming or appearing to become a “never closing revolving door” through which litigants could come and go as they pleased.
Prior to 2018, responsibility for oversight of SSC was in the portfolio of the minister of Public Services and Procurement.
The Executive Council in Canadian provinces is composed only of ministers in office, and is the official body by which the Cabinet's constitutional advice is given to the lieutenant governor.
He was appointed by the Department of the Interior to represent the federal government's position in negotiations with Alberta.
History Presently, eight former prime ministers have official coats of arms featuring the mark, including: Joe Clark, Pierre Trudeau, John Turner, Brian Mulroney, Kim Campbell, Jean Chrétien, and Paul Martin.
The Government of Canada is directed by the Cabinet, a group of senior government ministers led by the Prime Minister.
Selection Since it is the House of Commons of Canada that determines what party(ies) form government, the size of party caucuses in the Senate bear no relation to which party forms the government side in the Senate and which party forms the opposition.
The names of these geologic units may be formal, informal or undefined; they may also be obsolete or currently in use.
Yakweakwioose First Nation or Yakweakwioose Band (Halkomelem: Yeqwyeqwí꞉ws) is a band government of the Sto:lo people located in the Upper Fraser Valley region at Sardis, near Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada.
From 1996 until 2006, the position has been held by the Minister of Public Works and Government Services and from 2006 to 2015 by the Minister of Transport.
15, 1/2 mile southeast of Chilliwack, 64.80 ha (shared with eight other bands Pekw'Xe:yles (Peckquaylis) - 10.30 ha.
Chrétien's successor, Paul Martin, changed the structure of the PMO to more match that of the Executive Office of the President of the United States.
Though, the rise of globalization in the 1990s, was to believe that it was more realistic than in the 1970s.
Also that year, Telefilm Canada announces guidelines for the Canada New Media Fund, replacing the Multimedia Fund.
The Treasury Board of Canada (French: Conseil du Trésor du Canada) is the Cabinet committee of the Privy Council of Canada which oversees the spending and operation of the Government of Canada and is the principal employer of the core public service.
They ran freight between Whitehorse and Dawson City, along the Yukon River, the first from 1929 to 1936 and the second, an almost exact replica of the first, from 1937 to 1950.
Turner was appointed a Companion of the Order of Canada on October 19, 1994, and was invested on May 3, 1995.
Such was the case when the power of the Court of Chancery to rehear cases was extinguished by the Judicature Acts in 1873 by fusing common law and equity jurisdictions into one court and providing for a single appeal to a newly created Court of Appeal.
See also Canada Foundation for Innovation (CFI) Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) Canadian Institutes for Health Research (CIHR) Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) References External links Official website
The Quebec order of precedence is a nominal and symbolic hierarchy of important positions within the province of Quebec.
1951 - The Financial Administration Act of 1951 provided final authority to the Treasury Board for management (administration and organization) of the public service.
The office is equivalent to that of a deputy minister and as a member of the public service, the position is nonpartisan.
Management and performance policies and principal employer The Treasury Board, on advice of the Secretariat, sets policies regulating the authority of ministers and deputy ministers to administer and manage their departments, ensuring a government-wide approach to administration.
Minister of Pensions and National Health was an office in the Cabinet of Canada from 1928 to 1944 who oversaw the Department of Pensions and National Health.
These threats include terrorism, espionage and foreign interference in Canadian affairs, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and information security threats.
It was created by the Fair Access to Regulated Professions Act, which came into effect on 1 March 2007.
He enrolled at the University of British Columbia (UBC) in 1945 at age 16 where he was a member of the UBC chapter of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, and was among Canada's outstanding track sprinters in the late 1940s.
However, in 2006, with the situation in Kandahar Province turned increasingly violent, the Canadian Forces participated in several operations and battles.
Composition The committee is a statutory committee made up of parliamentarians, but it is an independent agency whose members are appointed by and administratively housed within the executive branch rather than within the structures of Parliament.
The only major city this left out was Toronto, although the Conservatives indicated that they considered enough Cabinet Ministers to be from the Greater Toronto Area, including Jim Flaherty and Bev Oda, to adequately represent the city in Cabinet.
With this in mind, Canadian immigration authorities decided to indirectly halt Indian immigration to the country.
The 8th Northwest Territories Legislative Assembly was the 15th assembly of the territorial government.
The Saskatchewan Film and Video Classification Board is a board of the Saskatchewan Department of Justice responsible for providing film and video classification documents to movie theatres in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan.
One was hit by anti-aircraft machine-gun fire and managed to land without casualties, the other was struck by a SA-7 missile, leaving no survivors.
Thus, the leader of the Opposition in the Senate may lead more senators than the leader of the Government in the Senate.
After that date, other colonies of the empire attained Dominion status and similar arrangements were made.
On December 21, 2016, a CSIS flag was raised for the first time by the director at the national headquarters.
Dumaresq's design provided accommodation for the Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council chambers, a Supreme Court chamber, and a legislative library, the latter arranged at the rear in the form of a Roman basilica.
The Commissioner turned over Executive Council privileges allowing elected members to form the cabinet and become leader of government in 1980 for the first time since 1905.
Prior to being given market authorization, a manufacturer must present substantive scientific evidence of a product's safety, efficacy, and quality as required by the Food and Drugs Act and Regulations.
Films with this rating will contain: horror, explicit violence, frequent coarse language and sexually suggestive scenes.
Legislation was passed in the House of Assembly approving the amalgamation in November 2022, and Western Health became part of Newfoundland and Labrador Health Services on April 3rd, 2023.
878 transferred Canada's provincially regulated telephone companies to federal jurisdiction, meaning that they would be regulated by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.
Standards The program defined national standards for four performance levels (Excellence, Gold, Silver, and Bronze) by age, sex, and activity, for participants from 6 to 17 years old.
At the signing of the Declaration by United Nations, Canada was one of four Dominions of the British Commonwealth present, alongside Australia, New Zealand, and the Union of South Africa.
Formation When the Canadian Expeditionary Force went overseas in 1914, no provision had been made for its administration.
Late career He served as head of the international team observing the Iraqi legislative election in January, 2005 On December 28, 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced that Kingsley would step down effective February 17, 2007.
Like in the United States, welfare in Canada colloquially refers to direct payments to low-income individuals only, and not to healthcare and education spending.
In London, Ontario the Dutch Canadian Society runs the Dutch Canadian Club one of the most popular clubs in that city.
Aftermath To review the City of Winnipeg Act, a provincial Committee of Review (the "Taraska" Commission) was appointed in 1975, chaired by Peter Stanley Taraska.
A statue of Britannia holding a trident crowns the upper roof, symbolizing Britain's maritime power at the time of the building's construction.
O'Brien 2015–2017 Charles Robert (Interim) 2017–2018 Nicole Proulx (Interim; first female clerk) 2018—2020 Richard Denis (Interim) 2020—2024 Gérald Lafrenière (Interim) May 7, 2024 — present Shaila Anwar See also Clerk of the House of Commons (Canada) Clerk of the Parliaments
Donahue, Alicia Elliott, Samra Habib, Catherine Hernandez, Shawn Hitchins, Ben Lewis, Téa Mutonji, Owen Pallett, Casey Plett, Heath V.
Consorts The Canadian monarch's consort—his or her spouse—has no constitutional status or power, but is a member of the Canadian royal family.
When necessary, an officer at an MCTS station can break into a CMB transmission and broadcast an urgent live message, such as a navigational warning or a distress relay message.
Info Source is a Government of Canada agency repository of information about or collected by the Canadian government.
Since 2000, the governor general also awards the Commander-in-Chief Unit Commendation to units in the Canadian Forces and allied militias that have performed extraordinary deeds or activities in highly hazardous circumstances in active combat.
(See Nickle Resolution) These items are worn at the end of the current order of precedence, and one receiving a British Order, Decoration or Medal after 1 June 1972 will abide by the normal order of precedence, not the one catered to pre-1972 awardings.
With the above in mind, a program was designed and implemented where young men between the ages of 16 and 17 (no younger and no older) were recruited into a seven-year program of which the first two years were a combination of military training, trades training, and additional schooling.
Relations with mainstream media Army.ca has on one occasion drawn negative attention to itself from a journalist of the mainstream (print) media.
In addition to age and name, geologic units in the Lexicon may also be searched by first citation, by source data set or by province or territory.
The Medical, Dental, Chaplain and Record Services came under the Adjutant General's Department for general administration.
This means that they are not part of the Canadian honours system and their insignia must be worn on the right side of the chest, similar to organizational medals granted by the Royal Canadian Legion or the Canadian Cadet Organizations.
Fiji In Fiji under the 2013 Constitution of Fiji, the Chief Justice of Fiji has a dormant commission to act as President of Fiji when it is vacant or when the President is either absent or ill.
Every second Wednesday is reserved for debating members' bills, although this rule is overridden when certain government business is before the House, such as the Budget.
An independent lab later claimed that the faking had been poorly done, including the use of shavings from gold jewelry.
Classes 2-6 have certain limitations for arable crop production, denoted by sub-classes which specify the limitations of the soil (for example, excessive water, adverse climate, stoniness).
CBC Arts (French: Radio-Canada Arts) is the division of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that creates and curates written articles, short documentaries, non-fiction series and interactive projects that represent the excellence of Canada's diverse artistic communities.
His replacement, Claude Drouin, would handle virtually all responsibilities for this portfolio as Secretary of State (Economic Development Agency for the Regions of Quebec) for the remainder of the Chrétien Ministry.
Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development: Previously two posts, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of International Development.
When policy rates in Canada hit the effective lower bound, the central bank combated the crisis with the non-standard monetary tool "conditional commitment" in April 2009 to hold the policy rate for at least one year, in a boost to domestic credit conditions and market confidence.
He was educated at the Académie De La Salle and went on to earn a BCom and a master's degree in Hospital Administration from the University of Ottawa.
The Minister of Housing and Community Development was a cabinet minister position in the province of Manitoba, Canada.
In 1979, this seal replaced an earlier version, which displayed the shield from the royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom along with a Tudor Crown above and the coat of arms of Quebec below.
Canadian doctrinal and judicial writing on functus officio is sparse, even though the rule itself derives from a 19th century case of the English Court of Appeal.
2005 PEI Provincial MMP referendum Prince Edward Island held a referendum in 2005 regarding the adoption of mixed member proportional representation.
Poland: 290 Hungary: 290 Indonesia: 290 Canada or Iran: 290 Total: 1,160 Those who had served at least 90 days with the ICCS were eligible for the International Commission of Control and Supervision Medal.
Fletcher Commanding Officer, HMCS Nonsuch Commanding Officer, 1 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 1 Area Support Group Commanding Officer, 41 Canadian Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 4 Wing Sources Government of Alberta: Order of Precedence == References ==
Population The band has a registered population of 40, 25 of whom live on one of the band's reserves.
He is particularly notable as having occupied positions as the Chief of Staff or Deputy Chief of Staff of two Canadian federal political leaders, Preston Manning and Stephen Harper.
In the past, ICURR independently produced and published research reports as well as collaborated on research reports with the Institute of Public Administrators of Canada (IPAC), the Federation of Canadian Municipalities (FCM) and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC).
An Indian agent was the chief administrator for Indian affairs in their respective districts, although the title now is largely in disuse in preference to "government agent".
The Commission receives complaints from the public and conducts reviews when complainants are not satisfied with the RCMP’s handling of their complaints.
Contentious bills are likely to run out of parliamentary time unless the government allocates some; any pending private members' bills lapse at the end of each parliamentary session.
The British Columbia order of precedence is a nominal and symbolic hierarchy of important positions within the province of British Columbia.
List of commissioners Jean Augustine, 2007–2015 Mary Shenstone, 2015–2016 Grant Jameson, 2017–2019 Irwin Glasberg, 2020–present See also Criticism of Canada relating to foreign credentials Ministry of Citizenship and Immigration (Ontario) References External links Official website
See also Symbols of Quebec Great Seal of Ontario Great Seal of Canada References External links Image of the old Great Seal of Quebec
I remember lines of unknown people linking arms and walking down Whitehall, all of us just swept along on a tide of happiness and relief." During the war, plans were drawn to quell Welsh nationalism by affiliating Elizabeth more closely with Wales.
It consisted of Victoria Island with the adjacent part of the mainland as far as the Boothia Peninsula, together with King William Island and the southern portion of Prince of Wales Island.
That is, it serves the same function provincially as the Privy Council does federally, except that the Executive Council does not have the ceremonial role of directly advising the Monarch, proclaiming their successors, or assenting to some royal marriages.
Strictly speaking, the five-year time limitation is applied to the life of the parliament or assembly in question — that body is not deemed to have been formed until the return of the writs and ceases to exist the moment it is dissolved.
Grierson made a report on the Canadian film industry in 1938, and the National Film Act, which he drafted, was passed on 2 May 1939 causing the creation of the NFB.
Barlow's contention that water "must be declared a public trust" has its basis in her involvement with water rights issues going back to the Canada-US Free Trade Agreement in the 1980s, when water was under consideration as a tradable good under the terms of that agreement.
However, its parliament never adopted the statute to create a separate position of king of Newfoundland and would remain under the British Crown until it joined Canada in 1949.
Originally the entire region was part of the Fort Smith Region, Northwest Territories and was later called the "Central Arctic Region".
The scientific members include a toxicologist nominated by the Society of Toxicology of Canada, a microbiologist nominated by the Canadian Society of Microbiologists and a chemist nominated by the Chemical Institute of Canada.
Following his father’s death in 2000, Justin Trudeau inherited Pierre Trudeau’s coat of arms, and is consequently the eighth former Canadian prime minister to possess arms featuring the heraldic mark.
On Aladdin, with the higher X-ray intensity, new areas of science were opened up and the number of users increased mostly focused on X-ray absorption and photoemission spectroscopy of gases and solids.
Federal SOAs function, without legislation, within a framework agreement approved by their given department's deputy minister, the minister responsible for the agency, and the Treasury Board.
ISED is responsible for a number of the federal government's functions in regulating industry and commerce, promoting science and innovation, and supporting economic development.
Doyle (2000) Murray Sinclair (2001) Joan McKelvey (2001) Martin Freedman, (2002) Colleen Suche, (2002) Marilyn Goldberg, (2002) Shawn Greenberg (2003) Karen Simonsen (2004) Marianne Rivoalen (2005) Lori Spivak (2005) Lori Douglas (2005) A.
Originally enacted in 1867 by the British Parliament under the name the British North America Act, 1867, in 1982 the Act was brought under full Canadian control through the Patriation of the Constitution, and renamed the Constitution Act, 1867.
It also marks the first participation by a First Nations member of the council (John Tetlichi, appointed).
Films with this rating are allowed to include: occasional violence, occasional swearing and coarse language, the most innocent of sexually suggestive scenes and nudity.
Canada, Denmark, Norway, Russia and the United States discussed key issues relating to the Arctic Ocean.
Later that year, the CRC gave a public demonstration of Telidon, the Canadian videotex/teletext system that contributed to the development of international standards for the Web.
While data sovereignty may require that records about a nation's citizens or residents follow its personal or financial data processing laws, data localization goes a step further in requiring that initial collection, processing, and storage first occur within the national boundaries.
After a controversial 2009 decision approved a community of up to 1,400 homes in the Manotick neighbourhood of Ottawa, Minister of Municipal Affairs Jim Watson was quoted in the local press as stating: "Has the OMB been perfect?
The remains of the hull of the Klondike I can still be seen at low water by canoeists on the Yukon River.
On 6 May 2023, Charles and Camilla's coronation took place at Westminster Abbey, in a ceremony planned for many years under the code name Operation Golden Orb.
As of April 1, 2011, the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) withdrew the federal government's share of the funding of ICURR.
This leads to underfunded housing, social services and health outcomes across all indigenous reserves in Canada.
The "intermodal" and "anomaly" classes are not distinct designations, however, but simply represent an additional clarification of why the road holds "core" or "feeder" status.
Through its networks and partners, CCUNESCO promote's UNESCO's values, priorities and programs in Canada and brings the voices of Canadian experts to the international stage.
Section 5 still co-exists with section 86 of the Constitution Act, 1867, which requires annual sessions for the legislatures of the provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
other advantages including reductions in property tax, exemptions and rebates under the GST/HST system.
The Canadian and Polish delegations had been present for nearly two decades, whilst the Hungarians and Indonesians were new to the task.
Among residents, most believed that only individuals who migrate legally should be allowed to remain.
Choosing either one would require much travel by the members of the Parliament, while Ottawa's central position would be advantageous.
The new king showed impatience with court protocol, and caused consternation among politicians by his apparent disregard for established constitutional conventions.
The CLI in this modified form consists of a soil survey with rankings from 1 to 7, with Class 1 soil having no limitations for arable crop production and Class 7 having no capability for agricultural activities.
After that, the responsibility was divided among the Department of Marines and Fisheries, Agriculture, and Inland Revenue.
The LINC is not available for Canadian citizens, refugee claimants, temporary residents (e.g., foreign students, foreign workers, or visitors).
Ottawa and Edmonton created task forces in 1992 while Halifax, Montreal and Toronto police addressed juvenile prostitution and, in particular, exiting schemes.
The National Advisory Board on Science and Technology was a Canadian organization that provided advice to the Prime Minister on matters relating to natural science and technology.
The Office of the Commissioner of Lobbying of Canada is an officer of Parliament of Canada who is responsible for achieving the objectives of the Lobbying Act that came into force in 2008.
In Canadian law, a real and substantial connection or the real and substantial connection test is a legal principle used to determine whether a subject matter falls within a jurisdiction.
Mandate The Standing Committee on Indigenous and Northern Affairs was established by the then new Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development (now Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada), in 1968.
History Ministers holding the external affairs and foreign affairs portfolios have sometimes played prominent international roles: Lester B.
The first three days included meetings, followed by a ministerial-level meeting on 13–14 June observed by representatives from Germany, Poland, the United Kingdom, and the United Nations.
Ministries See also List of Canadian federal parliaments List of prime ministers of Canada References External links Parliament of Canada - Ministries
The premier of Prince Edward Island is the first minister to the lieutenant governor of the Canadian province of Prince Edward Island and presides over the Executive Council of Prince Edward Island.
Role The Canadian Cabinet is arranged into several committees with varying responsibilities, but all other ones are informal structures and frequently change.
Pearson (a future prime minister) defused the Suez Crisis and established the United Nations Peacekeeping Forces and as a result received the 1957 Nobel Peace Prize.
See also Data governance Data sovereignty Information privacy (data protection) Legal aspects of computing Privacy Privacy law == References ==
The Lexicon of Canadian Geologic Units includes both lithological units and chronological units, the latter of which may be searched only by age or name.
Meanwhile, Senator Camille Villar has been the youngest Senator since 2025, taking over her older brother, Mark Villar.
History The Department of Trade and Commerce was created in statute on 23 June 1887 and proclaimed into force on 3 December 1892.
On August 5, 2010, Chrétien complained of experiencing difficulty walking, and was admitted to a hospital.
On the 25-years anniversary of Genome Canada, a C$175-million Canadian Genomics Strategy was announced.
Membership As of the 45th Canadian Parliament: Sub-Committees Subcommittee on Agenda and Procedure (SINA) References External links Official website Committee List
In the 2002 Species at Risk Act, COSEWIC was appointed as the body to identify and assess a species status.
Following the Westminster system, the premier is normally the leader of the political party which has the most seats in the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island who is called upon by the lieutenant governor to form a government.
Special Advisory Committee (SAC) is the term given to ad-hoc groups formed in Canadian government circles to provide advice and consultation, especially public health as governed by the Public Health Agency of Canada.
The council presided by Major-General John Wallace Carson, to which Hughes appointed his own son-in-law as secretary, began meeting weekly and formulating changes in policy.
To that end, the Privy Council Office serves as the policy-oriented but politically neutral advisory unit to the prime minister, while the Prime Minister's Office is politically oriented but policy-sensitive.
Membership The Tsimshian First Nations treaty council is made up of four band governments including: BC Treaty Process In the British Columbia Treaty Process, the treaty council is at Stage 4.
The test was updated in 1973 to promote an individual's improvement against earlier performance in addition to the program awards, and the 300-yard run was eliminated.
2002-1192 dates 3 Nov 2022 External links Order of Precedence – Governor General of Canada Canadian Medals Chart – Department of National Defence (archived version) Canadian Forces Administrative Order 18-4 Recommendations for Canadian Orders, Decorations and Military Honours
The Treasury Board Secretariat is headed by the secretary of the Treasury Board, currently Bill Matthews, who is responsible to Parliament through the president of the Treasury Board, currently Shafqat Ali.
As all executive power is legally reposed in the Crown, the role of commander-in-chief is the only constitutional means by which decisions are made over the deployment and disposition of the Canadian Armed Forces.
History During the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, QC, the department was called the Department of National Revenue Customs and Excise.
It also formed a union that has lasted over 50 years that one can relate to when two apprentices meet again, even among other intakes formerly unknown.
For its first 2 terms in the UNSC, Canada took the Commonwealth seat on the council, but in 1967, Canada has run for the Western European and Others Group seat.
The position was established in 1920 under the Dominion Elections Act to be the chief executive of the independent agency now known as Elections Canada.
The site has been in operation since 1993, but up until 2007 it went by the name Army.ca and CdnArmy.ca.
The NDP presented a motion to the House of Commons requesting the prime minister not advise the governor general to prorogue parliament for more than seven days unless approved by a majority vote by the lower house.
The agency's mandate is to ensure the integrity and accuracy of trade measurement in Canada, through enforcement and administration of federal acts and regulations.
As far as the province of Manitoba is concerned, section 5 of the Charter replaced section 20 of the Manitoba Act, which was also repealed in 1982.
Canada's Radiocommunication Act and Radiocommunication Regulations require that manufacturers, importers, distributors and sellers must test and label radio apparatus, interference-causing equipment or radio-sensitive equipment.
It includes the names of more than 16,000 geologic units throughout Canada, as well as information about each geologic unit from several sources.
It protects marine areas extending from the edge of territorial waters to the boundary defined by Canada's Exclusive Economic Zone, that is, the areas between 12 and 200 nautical miles (370 km) from the coastline.
He was the second judge advocate general for the Canadian Militia and the first chief electoral officer of Canada.
Jurisdiction When a claimant wishes to bring an action to a Canadian court, the Court must be satisfied that it has jurisdiction over the matter.
DeBakey operated on him in Houston for an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta in December 1964, and Sir Stewart Duke-Elder treated a detached retina in his left eye in February 1965.
The content of a CMB is a continuously-played back loop of marine weather information, provided by Environment Canada and updated several times a day, as well as live broadcasts of selected notices to mariners, shipping, and fishermen.
The nominated successor accepts the invitation and undertakes to inform the Governor General or Lieutenant Governor when the new Ministry is in a position to be sworn in.
The second study focused on the implementation of Part VII of the Official Languages Act by the federal government and suggested different ways that Section 41 of the Official Languages Act could be implemented.
The CCRA was subsequently split into the Canada Border Services Agency and Canada Revenue Agency in December 2003.
The most recent five-year evaluation by Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada was published in June 2020 with recommendations for efficiency gains and to minimize duplications.
Ujjal Dosanjh PC KC Gordon Campbell OC OBC Christy Clark The Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia (Hon.
It covered the following parishes: Barholm Braceborough Greatford Stowe Tallington Uffington West Deeping Wilsthorpe It was abolished by a County Review Order in 1931, and went to form part of the South Kesteven Rural District.
Falling floor slabs from Hodge's floor and the floors above stacked onto the floors below, causing a progressive collapse of all of the floors of the living room portions of the south-east units of the building.
However, the Foreign Office was not content with the reports and doubted their impartiality and trustworthiness.
Immediately after the publication of the report, the Government brought out interim measures to ensure the safety and integrity of buildings in the event of an explosion.
The organisation provides guidance notes at its website and appoints some Local Authority experts as 'Lead Officers', contacts who will advise other officers.
If for example she had been using it as a scooter by having one foot on the pedal and pushing herself along, she would not have been a 'foot passenger'.
See also Anti-Social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 Public spaces protection order References External links Text of the Anti-Social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014
The Conservatives pledge £730 million to expand NHS mental health services in England, aiming to reduce welfare costs by helping more people return to work.
The Municipal Borough of Kidderminster was a local government district in Worcestershire, that existed from 1835 to 1974.
It was renamed to its current title in July 2010 along with other members of the Local Government Group as part of the latter's 'Getting Closer' initiative.
The principal private secretary to the secretary of state for foreign and Commonwealth affairs is the head of the private office of the foreign minister of His Majesty's Government, and is located in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Main Building.
A command paper is an official document in the United Kingdom which is issued by His Majesty's Government (HMG) and presented to Parliament.
Notes References External links Text of the Colonial Prisoners Removal Act 1884 as in force today (including any amendments) within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
55) came into force in 1875, all local board districts and local government districts were designated urban sanitary districts, alongside the newly created rural sanitary districts; see list: Rural sanitary districts formed in England and Wales 1875–94.
Stay in your fall-out room until you are told it is safe to come out or you hear the "all clear" on the sirens.
If the vote is successful, the MP named is suspended for five days for a first offence and 20 days for a second offence.
The in-house IT department (Transformation & Technology Directorate) and Land Charges Department are based in its Plymouth Office.
Rumours and theories In 1908, the Irish journalist Bulmer Hobson published an account of the theft in a radical American newspaper, The Gaelic American, using information he had received from Vicars' half-brother Pierce O'Mahony.
Allerdale-above-Derwent Allerdale-below-Derwent Cumberland Eskdale Leath Derbyshire The civil divisions of Derbyshire were anciently called wapentakes.
History Creation The London Fire and Emergency Planning Authority was created with the Greater London Authority, consisting of the Mayor of London and London Assembly, as part of the Greater London Authority Act 1999.
This committee oversaw many aspects of home affairs, most notably the economy, and was vital to the smooth running of the British war economy and consequently the entire British war effort.
On 31 March 2013, NHS Connecting for Health ceased to exist, and some projects and responsibilities were taken over by Health and Social Care Information Centre.
That year, the military government of Commodore Frank Bainimarama announced the holiday would be abolished, despite Bainimarama being a monarchist himself.
Legacy In May 2018, 50 years after the partial collapse, Ronan Point was the subject of an experimental documentary film, And Then We Heard Shouts and Cries, by artist Ricky Chambers.
i don't have words." Her management team added that they "mourn the lives of children and loved ones taken by this cowardly act".
The position was established by the Wales Act 2017 and is the first senior judicial role relating solely to Wales.
In 1999 the Sinn Féin member of parliament Martin McGuinness challenged the legitimacy of the Oath of Allegiance required of British MPs by taking the matter to the European Court of Human Rights.
In 1980 of Sqn Ldr Adam Wise was appointed to assist the Prince with his work – although he still shared staff with the Queen and Prince Andrew.
Right to consular protection British Nationals (Overseas) have the right to consular protection from British diplomatic missions except in China, Hong Kong, and Macau.
There were also attacks or attempted attacks in Moira, Portadown, Armagh, Newry, Lisburn, Belfast, and Belleek, as well as another car bombing in Banbridge on 1 August, which caused thirty-five injuries but no deaths.
Archives may have been acquired either through donation or (more generally) by deposit on long-term loan.
The Oxford English Dictionary Online dates the first known use of the term Britishness to refer to the state of being British to a June 1857 issue of Putnam's Monthly Magazine.
External links Lacors.gov.uk - Local Government Regulation Local.gov.uk - LGA, LGID and related bodies
In October 2016 the prime minister, Theresa May, promised a "Great Repeal Bill" which would repeal the 1972 European Communities Act and import its regulations into UK law, with effect from the date of British withdrawal.
Jowell held that post in the Loyal Opposition until September 2012, when the London Paralympics closed and the post was abolished.
The Department of Overseas Trade was formed on 21 March 1918 by the Foreign Office and the Board of Trade to control commercial representatives and services abroad and to collate and disseminate overseas commercial intelligence.
Like all prerogative powers, it is not left to the personal discretion of the monarch but is to be exercised, on the advice of the prime minister, according to law.
Rathfriland Armstrong, Canada Scotland Wales References External links Extensive list of UK twin towns from the Dorset Twinning Association (as of 2007)
The Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 originally included a section that would have required Parliamentary approval for use of the armed forces, but this was dropped from the bill before royal assent.
Mastering the Internet (MTI) is a mass surveillance project led by the British communications intelligence agency Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) budgeted at over £1 billion.
Continuity agreements, also named rollover agreements, make use of a mutatis mutandis concept in order to quickly replicate the existing EU agreements, only having to call out those minor areas of differentiation.
Although it technically survives as a legal entity, its work is now entirely subsumed into that of The National Archives.
The Asset Protection Agency (APA) was an executive agency of the Government of the United Kingdom, operating as part of HM Treasury.
Chapter XI: Rules of Debate: Manner and time of speaking: Rules and orders to be observed by Members in speaking, and in attending to Debates.
Prior to the Union of 1707 there were eight officers of state: four greater officers, and four lesser officers.
The court 'required proof of a course of conduct,' and it was held the 'course of conduct [present here] amounted to harassment.' What about where the conduct is not targeted at the claimant?
This is the list of international prime ministerial trips made by David Cameron, who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 11 May 2010 until his resignation on 13 July 2016.
According to the National Union of Journalists (NUJ), such changes had led to 'a progressive decline in the calibre of editors and in the quality of British journalism'.
A number of other offices have also been used, but only the Chiltern Hundreds and the Crown Steward and Bailiff of the Manor of Northstead are still in use.
A few years later, it was replaced by the Protectorate under Oliver Cromwell, a de facto monarch with the title of Lord Protector rather than King.
Obstruction Stevens would later claim in a book he wrote that from the investigation's outset there was a concerted campaign to discredit the inquiries among elements of the British media.
So it is still harassment even if the harasser does not know that harm will be caused by their actions.
These were: Neville Chamberlain (11 May 1940 – 3 October 1940) Sir John Anderson (3 October 1940 – 24 September 1943) Clement Attlee (24 September 1943 – 23 May 1945) References War Cabinet and Cabinet: Lord President's Committees: Minutes and Papers (LP, ARD and Other Series) - National Archives.
In 1874 it published a fourth and fifth, then in 1875 its sixth and seventh and concluded with its eighth and final report.
Selected artists First World War Second World War Conflicts since the Second World War Since the First World War and the Imperial War Museums' establishment of a national collection of Official War Art, the IWM has played a major role in Official War Artist commissioning.
The Princess Royal's private residence is Gatcombe Park; her office, headed by the Private Secretary, is based at Buckingham Palace while her official London residence is located at St James's Palace.
All LDDs and SPDs also have to be accompanied by a sustainability appraisal (SA) and a strategic environmental assessment (SEA).
A prescribed notice (form AT5) has to be served prior to the start of the tenancy, confirming that the tenancy will be a 'short assured tenancy' and not an 'assured tenancy'.
This took responsibility from the community at large and improved efficiency, but over time tended to lead to governance by a self-perpetuating elite.
The frontbench of His Majesty's Loyal Opposition in the Parliament of the United Kingdom consists of the Shadow Cabinet and other official shadow ministers of the political party currently serving as the Official Opposition.
The southern boundary of the Temple liberties was the natural bank of the Thames until the Victoria Embankment was constructed (1865–1870).
The archives also oversees records management for Parliament, has an active outreach programme and frequently appears on radio and TV programmes.
This recommendation was not acted on and many other recommendations were also "set aside or watered down".
The hard-copy Register is in the process of being computerised: those parts which have been completed are available online.
The Green Paper looked at issues of constitutional reform including House of Lords reform and limiting the powers of the executive.
Britannia Rescue CSMA Club formerly owned and operated a vehicle breakdown rescue service for members and the general public, branded Britannia Rescue.
As of January 2026, it was revealed that the United Kingdom still did not currently have any comprehensive national war plan similar to the previous Government War Books.
Unlike the Cabinet position, the post in the Shadow Cabinet remained independent from the Shadow Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport.
Hampshire has in the past been named Southamptonshire and is so recorded in the Commonwealth Instrument of Government, 1653.
In 1861 the British government appointed the naturalist and diplomat Robert Swinhoe as the first British vice-consul in Taiwan.
1940-74 From 1940 until their abolition in 1974, there were only six more urban districts formed and a further fifty-six abolished, a net decrease of 50, bringing the total number of urban districts to 522.
See also National Asset Management Agency References External links Official website of the Asset Protection Agency
After Rule 27 was abolished in 1971, it was Rule 21 and Rule 42, which prohibited foreign games being played at GAA grounds, which were the focus of debate.
Pocket Sergeant is a mobile application developed in 2014 by Paul Cooper, a Cleveland Police officer at the time.
Preliminary discussions The following countries have reportedly discussed negotiating a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, however negotiations have not been formally opened.
United Kingdom traffic laws comprise the statutes and regulations governing road usage, vehicle operation, driver conduct, and traffic enforcement across England, Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
There were 38 members of staff, who were either employees of the Scottish Government, or on 2-year secondments from the fire services.
The London Cage was an MI19 prisoner-of-war facility during and after the Second World War to mainly interrogate captured Germans, including SS personnel and members of the Nazi Party.
The Royal Commission on the Depression in Trade and Industry was a Royal Commission of the United Kingdom set up by the Prime Minister Lord Salisbury's minority Conservative government in August 1885 and completed in December 1886.
There is a flag-raising ceremony among other events held at schools and universities to commemorate Sovereign's Day.
Introduction Racial and sex discrimination have been unlawful under the Race Relations Acts and the Equality Act 2010 (originally the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 which was repealed).
It is designed to enable the British Government to tackle the root causes of conflict abroad with various national and regional programmes including, developing human rights training, strengthening local police and judiciaries, and facilitating political reconciliation and local peace processes.
The Crime and Courts Act 2013 and Public Service Pensions Act 2013 made further amendments to judicial pension arrangements.
It was incorporated into the Parliamentary Privileges Act 1987 which "preserves the application of the traditional expression of this privilege, but spells out in some detail just what may be covered by the term 'proceedings in Parliament'".
In the case of R v Wolverhampton Coroner, it was held that the coroner must establish death by misadventure on the balance of probabilities, commonly known as "more likely than not".
Deputy Chair of the National Infrastructure Commission Sir John Armitt welcomed the report and the potential for investment to be made on new High Speed 3 and Crossrail 2 railways.
History From the late 19th century it became the common practice to present the treaties of the United Kingdom to Parliament after they had come into force.
Initially, they asked the then Thatcher government to fund such services at Westminster but were asked first to demonstrate a real need.
2 (2017): 171–197 Richard Reeve, The UK's Joint Expeditionary Force, ORG Explains #10, London: Oxford Research Group, June 2019.
Apprenticeship training providers who wish to appear on the UK's Register of Apprenticeship Training Providers in order to access funding from the Apprenticeship Levy from May 2017 and deliver apprenticeship training must be registered with the UKRLP.
Pharmacists in five regions were given read-only access in an NHS England pilot in October 2014 so they could verify and compare a patient's medicines during medicine use reviews.
Design Elizabeth II The basic form of the seal used during the reign of Elizabeth II was approved by the First Minister of Wales in January 2011.
Otis gave the speech of his life, making references to liberty, English common law, "a man's house is his castle," and the colonists's "rights as Englishmen." The court ruled against the merchants.
Scotland, which joined with England into the Kingdom of Great Britain after 1707, was at times represented by a separate Secretary of State for Scotland, though at others (1725–1741 and 1746–1782) it too was represented by the Northern and Southern Departments.
Originally the NSAI was proposed as a partnership between the Improvement and Development Agency (IDeA) and the Ordnance Survey.
The threat level informs decisions on protective security measures taken by public bodies, the police and the transport sector.
This article is a list of the frontbench under Sir Keir Starmer; for a full list of current and previous ministers of this government, see Starmer ministry.
It was merged into the position of Secretary of State for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport in May 2010.
History A railway hotel was built near to Gullane railway station and formally opened as the Marine Hotel on 28 June 1900.
Rule 21 stated: Members of the British armed forces or police shall not be eligible for membership of the Association.
The Secretary of State for the Environment, Transport and the Regions was a United Kingdom Cabinet position created in 1997, with responsibility for the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions (DETR).
Government perspective Gordon Brown, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, made a speech in 2006 to promote the idea of Britishness.
A question was added to record the number of rooms in a household, in response to concerns about overcrowding in cities.
"Taking the Chiltern Hundreds" refers to one of the legal fictions used to effect resignation from the House of Commons of the United Kingdom.
BBC News – On This Day – 16 May 1968 – 'Three die as tower block collapses' London Flats Disaster – British Pathé news footage Ronan Point at the Wayback Machine (archived 26 January 2010) Ronan Point: a fifty-year building safety problem
Remit The Commission was responsible for looking at how the pension system was developing over time and for making recommendations on whether the pension system should move beyond the current voluntarist approach.
The following is a list of towns in England and Wales which formed local board districts under the Public Health Act 1848 (11 & 12 Vict.
The opening ceremony was held on 11 October 1973 by Lady Tweedsmuir, Minister of State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Unlike Commonwealth citizens, Irish citizens have generally not been subject to entry control in the United Kingdom and, if they move to the UK, are considered to have 'settled status' (a status that goes beyond indefinite leave to remain).
1930-39 In the 1930s forty-one urban districts were formed and two hundred fifty-three abolished, a net decrease of 212, bringing the total number of urban districts to 572.
It will be financed through loans attached to the energy bills of the improved properties - The green deal was dropped by government in 2015.
The office has generally remained vacant since 1421, and is now an ad hoc office that is primarily ceremonial and is filled only for a coronation.
Peel realised that such a government would hold a minority in the House of Commons and would be structurally weak, possibly damaging his future political career.
On 1 January 2016, it was merged with Major Projects Authority to form the Infrastructure and Projects Authority, which reports both to HM Treasury and the Cabinet Office.
A number of factors, both positive and negative, forced the government to reconsider the way financial services were regulated in the UK.
Queen Elizabeth II formally delivered the seal into the custody of the First Minister at a meeting of the Privy Council at Buckingham Palace, London, on 14 December 2011.
The Lites is used for the three shrieval counties that fall wholly or partially within the boundaries of the historic county palatine of Lancaster, since 1 April 1974: Lancashire, Greater Manchester, and Merseyside.
In his defence he argued that allowing even limited use of Imperial measurements was inconsistent with the European directive and therefore in contravention of Section 2(2) of the European Communities Act 1972, and that the relevant section of the 1972 Act had therefore been implicitly repealed.
United Kingdom The monarch's birthday has been celebrated in the United Kingdom since 1748, during the reign of King George II.
Notes References External links Text of the Judicial Pensions Act 1981 as in force today (including any amendments) within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
See also Air transports of heads of state and government British Royal Train Commando (aircraft) List of royal yachts of the United Kingdom Royal barge of the United Kingdom State and royal cars of the United Kingdom References March, P.
1a chapelry to Llanddewi Brefi in Penarth hundred Carmarthenshire Carmarthenshire was divided into eight hundreds.
Among those said to have accepted his services were the Welsh football pool promoter Harry Sherman and an importer of pinball machines who sought further import licences.
It was designed to provide greater levels of integration than previously achieved, especially when combined with other countries' armed forces.
The Southern Department was a department of the government of the Kingdom of England and later the Kingdom of Great Britain from 1660 until 1782 when its functions (and the functions of the Northern Department) were reorganised into the new Home Office and Foreign Office.
The British National (Overseas) status was created in 1985 in anticipation of the transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong on 1 July 1997.
Lighting of Towns Act 1828 The first town commissioners were established by the Lighting of Towns (Ireland) Act 1828 (9 Geo.
At the same time, the War Office, operating independently of Buchan's department, established MI7, a large and effective section responsible for propaganda aimed at troops and enemy forces.
There is a history of being given a secondary title so the eldest son can have it as a courtesy title.
The Government, unsatisfied with their findings, recruited Professor Laurence Gower in 1981 to consider new legislation.
It was enthusiastically supported by Lord Darzi who argued that interested patients and carers, especially those accustomed to self-management of their condition, should take the lead in creating apps and other means of accessing records that are customised to the needs of patient groups.
Recent developments In recent years some judges and scholars in Britain and New Zealand have questioned the traditional view that parliament is sovereign.
Wilmslow Town Council is the town council for the Cheshire market town of Wilmslow and was established in May 2011 following a community governance review.
Local Partnerships has a team of PFI specialists who provide support to contracts across the full range of financial, technical and legal specialisms, particularly as the contracts come to an end or may benefit from refinancing.
In 1983, the Royal Air Force leased two BAe 146 aircraft to assess their suitability as replacements for The Queen's Flight's Andovers.
Trade bloc applicants The following countries have applied to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade bloc of which the United Kingdom is a member of.
This version of the anthem is used every Sunday at the Savoy Chapel which is governed by the Duchy of Lancaster.
Public attention JTAC rose to public prominence following the terrorist attacks in London in July 2005.
It organized thousands of meetings across the country, targeting specific groups like industrial workers, women, rural populations, and soldiers.
Districts which were already municipal boroughs where the existing town council was constituted as the local board (e.g.
It was abolished in April 2018 and replaced with the London Fire Commissioner, following the Policing and Crime Act 2017.
Espionage The act contains three offences relating to espionage: obtaining or disclosing protected information, obtaining or disclosing trade secrets, and assisting a foreign intelligence service.
In English Law, it was upheld in 2005 by Lord Bingham in the case of R (Jackson) v Attorney General: The bedrock of the British Constitution is ...
The private secretary to the prime minister for foreign affairs is a senior official in the British Civil Service who acts as the private secretary for all matters concerning foreign policy and international affairs to the prime minister of the United Kingdom.
The Central Digital and Data Office was an agency under the United Kingdom's Department for Science, Innovation and Technology which was responsible for coordinating digital, data, and technological programmes across the government, and setting standards in those areas.
In 2007, CSMA sold Britannia Rescue to Liverpool Victoria, the owner of the Frizzell Insurance brand (now known as LV=).
The Office for Environmental Protection (OEP) is a public oversight body for environmental protection in England and Northern Ireland "to provide independent oversight of the government's environmental progress".
Until the oath or affirmation is taken, an MP may not receive a salary, take their seat, speak in debates or vote.
Troops returning from Afghanistan into Edinburgh Airport were directed away from the public areas through ad hoc facilities in 2007.
The 2006 act also designated the First Minister as "Keeper of the Welsh Seal" (Ceidwad y Sêl Gymreig).
Other participants included 15 officials from Public Health England, 14 officials from the Department of Health and Social Care and 10 from NHS England.
This loss of 'core' support weakened the authority of the government and its leader on that issue and more broadly.
Subsequently Leigh Day, one of the law firms involved, were referred to the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal to answer complaints about its handling of action brought by Iraqi detainees against the Ministry of Defence.
History and status Written guidance for British cabinet ministers began as the document Questions of Procedure for Ministers (QPM), which was a confidential document prepared by civil servants of the Cabinet Office to assist ministers, and dates to at least the 1980s.
Horse races, conducted by the National Sports Council, are held in Belize City's National Stadium and Orange Walk Town's People's Stadium.
By the late 17th century, the existence of a number of autocratic and corrupt select vestries had become a national scandal, and several bills were introduced to Parliament in the 1690s, but none became acts.
List of MPs suspended from parliament External links Members Suspended from the House of Commons 1949–2009 == References ==
Once the money had been deposited, the details of the deposit were written on a parchment (a 'teller's bill'), which was sent down a pipe to the Tally Court (the room below).
The number we found to be actually on the books was 2,535,462, thus leaving 120,305 children without any school instruction whatever." They looked at the previous years data and found that 2,213,694 children of the poorer classes were in elementary day schools.
All writs of assistance expired six months after the death of the king, at which time new writs had to be obtained.
Lord Privy Seal The Lord Privy Seal (formally the Lord Keeper of His Majesty's Privy Seal) was responsible for the monarch's privy seal, until the use of such seal became obsolete, and is now considered a sinecure position, usually granted to the Leader of one or other of the Houses of Parliament.
Ministers retain their positions as members of the executive government (but not as MPs) until the return of the results of the election and formation of a new government, but during the run up to the election government activity is limited.
Two further bills were enacted in 2010 – the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Taxation (International and Other Provisions) Act 2010.
Often the foundations of many of the earlier collections were the extensive surviving archives originating from a county's quarter sessions – in the county of Somerset a special muniment room had actually been provided for these as early as 1617.
In December 2007, the British Prime Minister requested a report to evaluate the relationship between "our Armed Forces and the rest of society".
It includes the Prime Minister, Ministers and Parliamentary Private Secretaries (PPSs), and typically would number between 100–150 MPs.
This is the list of international prime ministerial trips made by Gordon Brown, who has served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 27 June 2007 until 11 May 2010.
In Wales, the lieutenancy areas are known as the preserved counties of Wales and are based on those used for lieutenancy and local government between 1974 and 1996.
As a result, further amendments made by the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 require bail where further investigation is needed or further proceedings against the person (such as charges) may be made.
It would there sit as a parliament for the next six months, to all intents and purposes as though it had not been previously dissolved; it could, however, be dissolved or prorogued at any point during this time by the new monarch.
The executive (that is, the Australian Government) may enter into a binding treaty without the involvement of Parliament.
A register office, commonly referred to unofficially as a registry office or registrar's office is an office in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and some Commonwealth countries responsible for the civil registration of births, deaths, marriages, civil partnerships, stillbirths and adoptions.
In countries with a strong separation of powers, this may lead to treaties being signed by the executive, but not being ratified because of legislative opposition.
The authority rejected the suggestion that it was quibbling over newspaper headlines and not Johnson's actual words.
and that I will do right to all manner of people without fear or favour, affection or ill-will according to the laws and usages of this realm.
The National Address Gazetteer infrastructure is the single source from which the AddressBase products from Ordnance Survey are developed.
The regalia were replaced in 1831 by new ones presented by William IV as part of a revision of the order's structure.
Deployments of the NDTSG and NTRG are overseen at a national management level, and where escalation from localised 'Tornado Teams' is deemed appropriate.
Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Hugh Dalton was also accused, as was Minister of Works Charles Key, and businessman Robert Liversidge.
The panel will be an ad hoc collection of professionals chosen to meet the young person's needs; typically their parents, teachers, youth workers, social workers, Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) workers, or other relevant people will be involved.
In addition to their role in registration, register offices in the United Kingdom conduct civil marriage and civil partnership ceremonies, as well as other civic ceremonies.
See also Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI) Treaty series References External links Command papers on GOV.UK UK national government publications at the British Library
The survey findings were incorporated into the Parliamentary Records Management Policy Guidelines, which was approved by both houses.
1415, Owain Glyndŵr also struck a great seal for Wales and used it to seal official documents such as the Pennal Letter to the King of France.
As an in-house public sector delivery partner they work solely for central government departments, The Welsh Government, Councils and Combined Authorities.
The first chief executive was Sir William Stubbs and its second chief executive Prof David Melville.
It was created in 1894 from that part of the Stamford rural sanitary district which was in Kesteven (the rest forming part of either Ketton Rural District in Rutland, Easton on the Hill Rural District in Northamptonshire, or Barnack Rural District in the Soke of Peterborough).
Staff operate at two sites, NDTSG Kidlington near Campsfield House in Oxford, and NTRG Hatfield Woodhouse, near HM Prison Hatfield in South Yorkshire.
mySociety publish an annual table to show which MPs are the most and least responsive; this is based on the results of a rolling survey which is sent to users two weeks after they use the site.
At the signing of the JEF agreement, the UK Government stated its intention to fully integrate the JEF partners' contributions before 2018, but that the JEF would be able to deploy immediately if required.
YISPs aim to address anti-social behaviour and offending by young people aged 8–13, though some local authorities extend the age range as high as 17.
The first holder of the office was Catrin Finch, followed in 2004 by Jemima Phillips, and in 2007 by Claire Jones.
The 1978 Oaths Act contains provisions relating to the manner of administering the oath, the option of swearing with uplifted hand, the validity of oaths, the making of solemn affirmations and the form of affirmation.
The Balance of Competences Review was an “audit of what the EU (European Union) does and how it affects the UK (United Kingdom)”, carried out by the United Kingdom Government during the Cameron–Clegg coalition.
A neighbourhood policing team (NPT), also sometimes known as safer neighbourhood team (SNT), is a small team of police officers and police community support officers (usually 3-10 strong) who are dedicated to policing a certain community or area.
An example of the former would be paying off a legitimate debt, whereas an example of the latter would be hiding the assets in overseas banks on receiving notice of the action.
Chapter XXIV: Distinctive character of Private Bills: preliminary view of the proceedings of Parliament in passing them.
Casey also said she had "found many examples" where organisations had avoided "examining whether there is disproportionality in ethnicity or cultural factors" in these crimes because of a "fear of appearing racist" or of increasing inter-community tensions.
Three further acts related to planning are associated with this primary act: The Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990, the Planning (Hazardous Substances) Act 1990, and the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990.
Each manor had its own laws promulgated in a document called the custumal, and anyone in breach of those laws could be tried in a manorial court.
Section 3 of the Act specifies that the Commissioner is to be appointed by the Governor-General in Council on the recommendation of the Prime Minister.
The Commissioner also has power to issue codes of conduct for parts of the public service, to investigate Government departments, and to advise the Government on the organisation of the public service.
Te Puea built up facilities at the Mangatawhiri pā and revived the recitation of tribal history, the singing of Waikato songs and other cultural traditions.
After being promoted to major-general in September 1908, at the very young age (in peacetime) of just 43, he was appointed an inspector of infantry in April 1909.
The coroner found that Black had been mentally unstable for some months, and was also in financial difficulties.
Part II of this civic area were supposed to be new civic offices as a replacement for the building in Manchester Street.
Part 1 of that the Judicature Amendment Act 1972 was re-enacted by Parliament via the Judicial Review Procedure Act 2016.
The Office of Treaty Settlements also administered many of the Treaty of Waitangi Settlement Acts, for a list of these see the list of Treaty settlements.
In 2023, the National Party won the most seats and formed a coalition government with two smaller parties—the government is referred to by the media (and prospectively by the National Party itself) as the "sixth National Government".
Charles expressed his philosophical views in his 2010 book, Harmony: A New Way of Looking at Our World, which won a Nautilus Book Award.
Several councils said they wanted to look into legal advice with regards to ignoring the government's requirement to hold polls.
References External links Valuers Registration Board website Land Information New Zealand Valuation website
The minister of defence is provided the power of control over the Defence Force on behalf of the Government and exercises this power through their primary military advisor, the Chief of Defence Force.
He was instrumental in setting up the Outward Bound outdoor education organisation in New Zealand, opening the Outward Bound school in Anakiwa near Picton in September 1962, which bears his name.
Colonial Police: 1840 The first formal policing service in New Zealand started in 1840 with the arrival of six constables of the New South Wales mounted police accompanying Lieutenant Governor William Hobson's official landing party to form the colony of New Zealand.
The bill was supported by the governing coalition parties but was opposed by the opposition Labour, Green and Māori parties.
At the end of 1864 he sold Bracken's hotel to Captain Albert Eichardt This hotel is now Eichardt's, a Queenstown landmark.
In 1864 when Frederick Weld became the sixth person appointed to formal leadership, a substantive leadership title, "premier", appeared.
The storekeeper's responsibility was to support the colonial administration with its logistical needs.
The New Zealand Wildlife Service was a division of the Department of Internal Affairs responsible for managing wildlife in New Zealand.
Changes were made to National Superannuation (1988) by ensuring that "all new superannuitants would be paid the same rate, regardless of age of spouse".
At the start of the 1861 session, Fox moved a confidence motion in the midst of the ramp-up of tensions in the Waikato, and won by two votes.
Under the Chatham Islands Council Act 1995, the council can levy dues on goods entering or leaving its district.
Ian Robert Cross (6 November 1925 – 2 November 2019) was a New Zealand novelist, journalist and administrator, and contributed significantly to New Zealand letters.
One of the principal factors which contributed to the Glorious Revolution was the perceived assaults made on the Church of England by King James II, a Roman Catholic, who was deposed in favour of his Protestant daughter Mary II and her husband William III.
Byers oversaw a range of significant organizational development initiatives and major changes to the way in which offenders are managed.
The Scottish Parliament unanimously passed a motion in 1999 calling for the complete removal of any discrimination linked to the monarchy and the repeal of the Act of Settlement.
In the 1928 King's Birthday Honours, Jones was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire.
In Australia, a judge's associate (not to be confused with a tipstaff) is a recent law graduate or lawyer who performs various duties to assist a specific judge, such as legal research, proofreading draft judgments, providing substantive comments to the judge and administrative duties.
(1960–63), Paris (1963–66), Kuala Lumpur (1966–68) and London (1972–77), where he studied at the Royal College of Defence Studies and was deputy high commissioner.
The Valuer-General of New Zealand is a statutory officer in charge of valuation standards in New Zealand.
Members of United, Reform and the National Political Federation jointly decided to form a new party in May 1936 in the form of the National Party.
Like Māori electorates within the New Zealand Parliament, the purpose of Māori wards and constituencies is to ensure that Māori are represented in local government decision making.
He moved to Timaru in 1961 to take up the role of public relations officer for the South Canterbury area.
Ministers The following members served in the Fox Ministry: See also New Zealand Government Notes == References ==
His grandfather was Thomas Gisborne (1758–1846), who fought for the abolition of the slave trade in England.
He attended Christchurch Teachers' Training College from 1930 to 1932, and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1930 and an MA with first class honours in Latin in 1931.
He served as mayor of Palmerston North from 1971 to 1985, and was the Chief Ombudsman of New Zealand from December 1994 to June 2003.
He was senior representative and life member of the Government Superannuitants Association and also a life member of Bellamy's.
The now deceased principal, Brother Roger Moloney, was sentenced to 35 month's jail for sexually abusing children.
In the 1997 New Year Honours, he was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services as State Services Commissioner.
Reader Wood, who was deputy surveyor-general, was tasked with designing a suitable meeting house that could be used by the survey department during the parliamentary recess.
Robert Noble Jones (1 August 1864–29 June 1942) was a New Zealand lawyer, public servant and land court judge.
History The Rangitikei District Council was established in 1989 as part of the 1989 local government reforms.
They were later used by the Governor-General and refurbished for the 1953–1954 royal tour by Queen Elizabeth II.
Commissioners Commissioners for the environment Ian Baumgart (1974–1980) Parliamentary commissioners for the environment References External links Parliamentary Commissioner for the Environment
In September 2013, it was officially confirmed that the added signatures had successfully been collected, with the tally now standing some 18,500 more signatures than required.
Companion of the Queen's Service Order (QSO) Extra Companion, for public services His Royal Highness The Prince Charles Philip Arthur George, Prince of Wales == References ==
Commissioner The Public Service Commissioner is the chief executive of the commission and has a range of responsibilities for the public service, the State Services and the wider state sector.
The fireproofing saved the General Assembly Library from the fire of 1907, which destroyed the rest of the wooden parliament buildings.
In the 1969 Queen's Birthday Honours, she was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire, in recognition of her services.
From the creation of the roles in 1995 until May 2022, the party had a requirement that one co-leader be male and one co-leader be female.
Life in New Zealand Walter Kennaway first stood for election to the Canterbury Provincial Council in the Geraldine electorate in 1865, but was defeated by William Gosling.
Effectiveness Evaluative findings align with this rich prospect of understanding: 96% awareness, with 91% engagement in schools, and 65% uptake in ECE/kōhanga reo.
Application Current thresholds The presumption of supply thresholds are set out in Schedule 5 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1975.
The Bill of Rights excluded Catholics from the throne, which ruled out James II and his children (as well as their descendants) sired after he converted to Catholicism in 1668.
Elected Conservative Member of Parliament for the Chippenham constituency in 1892, he joined the Liberals in 1905.
The new Christchurch Town Hall was built in Kilmore Street, over the Avon River from Victoria Square, and opened in 1972.
Treatment of teenagers in police custody In October 2012, the IPCA issued a report on the treatment of teenagers held in police custody following reports in January 2012 about two young girls who were detained and strip-searched by Upper Hutt police.
After a 1972 PhD from Duke University titled 'Industrial production and investment in a dynamic, multiregional, interindustry model of the United States,' he became Secretary of the New Zealand Treasury in 1986, and held that post until 1993.
Ministers for the Public Service Key National Labour References External links Official website New Zealand Government Jobs Online History of the Office of State Services Commissioner, State Services Commission https://www.beehive.govt.nz/release/peter-hughes-new-state-services-commissioner
He held a fellowship in journalism at Harvard University in 1954–1955 and the Robert Burns Fellowship at the University of Otago in 1959.
Leitner as the imperial title for the sovereign and was also employed in an official capacity, most notably to denote Crown property in India.
Maximum passport age Countries of the Schengen area require non-EU passports to be less than 10 years old upon entry.
Background Kirk appointed himself as Minister of Foreign Affairs with Joe Walding as an associate and focused on external matters for much of his premiership.
She also hosted a reception at Government House honouring the 125th anniversary of women's suffrage.
By default, recorders act as mayor pro tem of the municipal government in the absence of the actual mayor.
The United Party had been formed in 1927 from the remnants of the Liberal Party under Sir Joseph Ward, who had made a political comeback.
She said that through her work at ActionStation with community members, she had heard of the positive contributions and relationships that had formed between council and iwi groups as a result of the increased Māori representation brought about by the introduction of Māori wards.
It was unclear, however, which of the several factions would be able to command a majority, so it was only when the new House met in August that Vogel and the liberal Robert Stout were able to put together a ministry.
Legislation Legislation governing what a fringe benefit is, and is not, is contained within part CX of the Income Tax Act 2007.
New citizens then join in the singing of God Defend New Zealand before enjoying a cup of tea or glass of wine, normally following the Loyal toast.
In the 1955 Queen's Birthday Honours, he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire, for services as secretary of the Department of Industries and Commerce and as a member of the Board of Trade.
This United–Reform coalition government of New Zealand was first formed in September 1931 and successfully contested the 1931 general election in December that year.
After the 2008 general election the National Party and its allies were able to form a government, taking over from Helen Clark's Fifth Labour Government.
Duke and Duchess of York, 1927 George VI and his wife, Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, travelled by train and car to Rotorua on 24 February 1927, where a World War I memorial was unveiled.
In 2022 the Northern and Southern Wards changed from three to two members and two new wards Tiikeitia ki Uta (Inland) Māori and Tiikeitia ki Tai (Coastal) Māori were established.
He won a postgraduate scholarship and studied at University College London, graduating with a PhD in French in 1935, with a thesis on the work of Paul Adam.
The city clerk acts as a compliance officer for federal, state, and local statutes including the Political Reform Act, the Brown Act, and the Public Records Act.
Grey then attempted to form a coalition with Atkinson but was rebuffed, with the result that Atkinson returned to office for less than a week.
She set up a practice in Geraldine advising rural landowners on sustainable management, and is the director of Lucas Associates Limited, now based in Christchurch.
From 1967 to 1972, Williams was vice chancellor of the University of Otago, before accepting the same position at the Australian National University in Canberra, where he remained until 1975.
This includes to administer some of the payment of funding entitlements for parliamentary purposes, including the payment of travel entitlements to former members of Parliament.
Wilson was a member of the Auckland Provincial Council, representing the Pensioner Settlements electorate from 7 October 1857 to 12 September 1861.
In the 1987 restructuring, the Department of Survey and Land Information was set up to provide government civil and military survey mapping and land information services.
The Human Rights Commission had conducted an internal investigation into Foon's interests including emergency accommodation funding.
Additional Parliament building In 2022, then-Speaker of the House Trevor Mallard announced a new six-storey building complex behind Parliament House on Museum Street.
In May 2015, the Telecommunications Forum (TCF) expressed concern about the way in which the Government had passed legislation regarding the TDL under urgency.
2024 In mid-June 2024, Kiro along with Prime Minister Christopher Luxon hosted Chinese Premier Li Qiang during his state visit.
He was the third son of Thomas John Gisborne (1789–1868) of Holme Hall, near Bakewell in Derbyshire, England.
Randell Thomas McDonnell or Randall Thomas Macdonnell (21 August 1843 – 12 April 1923) was a New Zealand cricketer.
Hunn recommended greater integration between top-level military and civil personnel responsible for the command and governance of the New Zealand Defence Force, and suggested the position of VCDF be created to assist the Chief of Defence Force as a chief staff officer.
Eyre resided in Market Drayton in Shropshire, which was outside the jurisdiction of the court, so the indictment failed on that count.
In the 1973 New Year Honours, he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire, for services to science, administration and education, and in the 1981 Queen's Birthday Honours, he was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath.
She was one of three nurses from New Zealand in the Spanish Civil War, and married Willi Remmel a German anti-fascist volunteer in Spain in 1938.
These expanded co-governance policies attracted vocal opposition from the National, ACT, and New Zealand First parties.
Awards and legacy In the 1985 Queen's Birthday Honours, Delamere was appointed a Companion of the Queen's Service Order for community service.
Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic in New Zealand, Ardern did not travel internationally between early 2020 and 2022.
The ceremony was smaller than usual because of national COVID-19 restrictions on the size of gatherings.
However, section 4 of the Bill of Rights Act forced the court to allow the presumption-of-supply clause to prevail, and Hansen's appeal was unsuccessful.
Before calling an election, Atkinson announced a policy of 'closer settlement' of land, Crown pre-emption in purchases of Māori land, and encouragement of local industry through moderately protectionist tariffs.
McIntosh was less supportive of the idea, but Defence Chiefs in Wellington, with the notable exception of Defence Secretary Jack Hunn, and politicians unwilling to offend US interests, supported the move.
In 1960 Sheen was appointed as secretary to the Commission on Education (under the chairmanship of George Currie).
Early life Kennaway was born in 1835 in Exeter, and was one of five brothers to emigrate to New Zealand.
Failures to investigate Wairarapa sexual abuse cases in 2008 In 2008 there was a public scandal regarding the failure of police to investigate a backlog of sexual abuse cases in the Wairarapa.
Note that once the burden of proof has shifted, the burden is one on the balance of probabilities (rather than beyond reasonable doubt).
Low was a member of various New Zealand delegations to international conferences, including Havana (Cuba, 1947/48), Annecy (France, 1949), London (Great Britain, 1951), and Sydney (Australia, 1954).
He wrote in his diary, "When I told her what had happened, I broke down and sobbed like a child." On the day of Edward's abdication, the Oireachtas, the parliament of the Irish Free State, removed all direct mention of the monarch from the Irish constitution.
He was appointed a Knight Bachelor in the 1975 Queen's Birthday Honours, for services to economics and education and was also awarded, by the University of Otago in 1997, an Honorary Doctorate and in 2004, from the Victoria University of Wellington.
Sir Crawford Dunlop Falconer (born 1954) is a British diplomat who served as the United Kingdom's Chief Trade Negotiation Adviser, based at the Department for Business and Trade (DBT).
Once the tallest building in Christchurch, New Zealand, it was damaged in the 2011 Christchurch earthquake and demolished by implosion on 31 May 2015.
Royal Victorian Order Member (MVO) Squadron Leader Leanne Woon – Royal New Zealand Air Force == References ==
In 1997 when Lower Hutt designated a new riverbank park, near the Ewen Bridge, the council wanted to name it after the recently deceased Diana, Princess of Wales.
In the early evening, at around 5 pm, Malone was killed in his headquarters trench by friendly fire, either from supporting artillery or possibly naval gunfire.
Evelyn Milnes Gaskell, son of Charles Milnes Gaskell and Lady Catherine Henrietta Wallop (daughter of the 5th Earl of Portsmouth), in 1905.
(3) It is no defence to a charge under this section that the child consented or that the person charged believed that the child was of or over the age in question.
This body is modelled after the British National Security Council and the Australian National Security Committee of Cabinet.
Appointment, dismissal and term of office The position of State Services Commissioner is one of the few positions in New Zealand's public service where Ministers are directly involved.
Background At the 1884 general election, Sir Julius Vogel returned to New Zealand politics with a manifesto promising more public works spending than the previous government had provided, while also cutting taxes.
It is argued that police are avoiding FGCs because either they want to keep people out of the system or they do not trust it as an option.
He also played for the New Zealand Universities team while he was a student at Victoria University College, and was awarded a cricket blue.
Notes References External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by the Earl of Glasgow
He was involved in investigations into the dismissal of the Environment ministry communications manager Madeleine Setchell, which led to the resignation of Environment Minister David Benson-Pope.
He volunteered for active service in the Second Boer War, and was commissioned a lieutenant in the 1st Battalion (Wiltshire Company) Imperial Yeomanry on 7 February 1900, leaving Liverpool for South Africa on the SS Cymric in early March 1900.
While posted in France, Macey played a key role in the return of the Unknown Warrior to New Zealand.
In an introductory video to members of the New Zealand Red Cross shortly after taking up the post of Secretary General, Stuart-Black attributes the nickname "Norm" as an enduring professional moniker to her having started working at the Ministry of Civil Defence and being sat next to another Sarah.
Under the State Services Act, the Commissioner negotiates terms and conditions of employment with each Departmental chief executive, subject to the approval of the Prime Minister and the Minister of State Services.
Temporary entry class visas have a set expiry date, and conditions placed upon them based on the category under which the holder applied for a visa.
Role When the Labour Party forms the Parliamentary Opposition, as is the case now, the party leader commonly takes on the position of the leader of the Opposition and chairs a Shadow Cabinet.
The legal burden of proof then shifts to the defendant to prove that he or she did not possess the drug for purposes of supply and it was intended for personal use.
The Minister of Trade and Industry in New Zealand is a former cabinet position (existing from 1972 to 1989) appointed by the Prime Minister to be in charge of matters of industrial and commercial growth and trade.
However government policies such as an increase in pay for relief workers, job creation and generous education policies did bring major benefits to many.
Edward Francis Harris (13 May 1834 – 26 July 1898) was a New Zealand public servant, interpreter, landowner, genealogist.
The New Zealand Wildlife Service was subsequently dissolved, and its roles and staff were transferred to the newly formed department.
History No formal civil defence or emergency management structure existed in New Zealand until the 1930s, when the increasing threat of war prompted the formation of the Emergency Precautions Scheme, which was controlled by the Department of Internal Affairs.
This is a list of appointments to the New Zealand House of Representatives, which is the sole house of the New Zealand Parliament, filling vacancies of List MPs, from the first election to be held under the mixed-member proportional (MMP) electoral system in 1996 until the present day.
The Fourth Labour Government of New Zealand governed New Zealand from 26 July 1984 to 2 November 1990 (the period up to 8 August 1989 is also called the Lange Government).
Under the law change the 45 local councils that had established Māori wards following the 2021 law change abolishing binding referendums on Māori wards were required to decide by 6 September 2024 whether to drop their Māori wards or hold a binding poll on them at the 2025 local elections.
She was a strong advocate for women's rights, especially in relation to equal pay, economic autonomy and access to higher education, and was active in the Federation of University Women and the National Council of Women.
The remains were chosen by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission from the Caterpillar Valley Cemetery, near where the New Zealand Division fought in 1916.
Role While the party leader is responsible for leading the Labour Party's political agenda and representing Labour in parliament, the president is responsible for managing the party's internal affairs and ensuring that the party is organised and compliant with relevant laws and regulations.
The "Mitrokhin Archive" claims that many Soviet spies were active in New Zealand, possibly using it as a relatively "safe" training ground for activities in other English-speaking countries.
After receiving approval by the Board of Directors (the governing body of the party), the leader of the Parliamentary Section becomes the leader of the party.
The booklets include a street map of Christchurch overlaid on a map of the Canterbury Plains ecosystems and soil types.
During his brief tenure work was commenced on toxoplasmosis, influenza A and B, psittacosis, Q fever, mumps and lymphocytic chorio-meningitis.
Whanganui District Council chief executive David Langford said that in submissions to the council on the topic, 53% had been in support of Māori Wards.
He served as Commissioner then High Commissioner to Singapore (also to Malaya and Ambassador to Thailand) 1955-58, then as High Commissioner to Canada 1958-61 and Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York 1958-62.
The roll contained valuations for all properties in New Zealand and would be used by the New Zealand Government to calculate stamp duty for residents.
Sir Robert Kinsela Workman (born 1940 or 1941), commonly known as Kim Workman, is a New Zealand criminal justice advocate.
She was educated at Hutt Valley High School from 1940 to 1943, and then studied at Victoria University College, graduating Master of Science with third-class honours in 1948.
As Governor-General, Blundell was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George and Knight of the Order of St John in 1972, Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order in 1974, and Companion of the Queen's Service Order for public service in 1977.
The third Stafford ministry was the tenth responsible government to be formed in New Zealand, and lasted for a month.
(Intermediate Normal) where his batting for the third eleven cricket team is still remembered (Palmerston North Boys High School).Where he was well known for his extensive Pink Floyd record collection.
He is a Trustee of the EMI Music Sound Foundation and worked in the recording industry with EMI Music for many years.
Robert Martin Williams (30 March 1919 – 18 March 2013), generally known as Robin Williams, was a New Zealand mathematician, academic administrator and public servant.
Five years later he transferred to the Audit Department, rising to become Deputy Controller and Auditor-General.
As the personal representative of the New Zealand monarch, the governor-general performs many of the functions vested in the Crown, such as summoning and dissolving Parliament, granting or withholding the Royal Assent, making state visits, and receiving ambassadors.
In 2016, she stood for the position of Secretary-General of the United Nations, but was unsuccessful.
Royal Victorian Medal Silver (RVM) Arthur Henry Hart – detective sergeant, New Zealand Police; of Wellington.
In 1891 Ballance asked Onslow to nominate 18 representatives to the council in order to counterbalance Atkinson's nominations of the previous year.
Those rebates were part of the original 1936 Taxation Act (section 46), meaning that the principle of eliminating double taxation has been present to some degree in Australian income tax law for a very long time.
Patricia Scotland QC, Commonwealth Secretary-General Roderick Williams OBE, Baritone Judith Weir CBE, Master of the Queen's Music Alison Cox, Founder and Chair of Trustees, The Commonwealth Resounds / Head of Composition, The Purcell School for Young Musicians.
An application for a New Zealand Emergency Travel Document (ETD) costs NZ$596 and includes the fee for a full replacement passport before the expiration of the ETD.
Edward Jollie (1 September 1825 – 7 August 1894) was a pioneer land surveyor in New Zealand, initially as a cadet surveyor with the New Zealand Company.
Background concepts CIMS is based around several background concepts that provide the basis for the operational elements.
There is no established order of precedence over members of parliament in general, although each party has its internal ranking.
This, he claimed, discriminated against non-Anglicans, including Catholics, who are the largest faith group in Canada.
List of leaders Timeline See also Leader of the New Zealand National Party Leader of the New Zealand Labour Party Co-leaders of the Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand Co-leaders of Te Pāti Māori Libertarianism Footnotes Notes References "ACT New Zealand – Constitution & Rules" (PDF), 2019.
Sir Frank Wakefield Holmes (8 September 1924 – 23 October 2011) was a New Zealand economist and government advisor noted to have significantly influenced New Zealand's social and economic development.
But it made no difference to re-offending rates by prisoners, with one criminologist Dr Greg Newbold saying the system had become "a large and expensive failure".
A nursing scholarship for trainee nurses from the Hokianga area, the Rene Mary MacLennan Scholarship, was established in her memory.
Some analysts, such as Jonathan Boston, claim that the Minister of Finance can sometimes hold more influence than the Prime Minister, if the conditions are right.
Addition of 3,000 hectares to public access maps (September 2023): In September 2023, the Commission added over 1,400 reserves, totaling 3,000 hectares, to its public access maps.
She was a member of the United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination Team for nine years and has worked in Ethiopia, Niue and the Solomon Islands.
His wife encouraged him to write an autobiography for the benefit of their children, and he began writing his reminiscences in 1872.
(2) Nothing in this Act affects New Zealand's continuing commitment to the rule of law and the sovereignty of Parliament.
Part of the agreement was that all sitting members who support the coalition would in turn receive the official endorsement as coalition candidate.
Honours and awards Valintine was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1919 King's Birthday Honours for his services during the First World War.
David Boyle, 7th Earl of Glasgow (31 May 1833 – 13 December 1915), was a British naval commander and colonial governor.
The age of consent rises to 18 when the older partner - being age 18 or older - is the parent, stepparent, adopted parent, or legal guardian of the younger person, or when the older partner has or occupies a position of authority over the younger person.
In 2019, an Inland Revenue employee was awarded the Ria McBride Public Service Management Award, sponsored by Te Kawa Mataaho Public Service Commission, which supports women to study as part of their development towards senior management positions in the Public Service.
Defending this cost, Russel Norman, Greens co-leader, noted that this cost paled in comparison to the (to September 2013) $100 million cost of the asset sales program itself.
The song was put together after a call for lyrics and subsequent compositions was won by Lucy Kiely and Vincent Atueyi from Australia and Nigeria, respectively.
The Care to Custody report was welcomed as a vindication by former state care wards Hohepa Taiaroa and Arthur William Taylor, who attributed their state care experiences to their descent into the prison system as adults.
This is information that, in the opinion of the Director of the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service "cannot be divulged to the individual in question or to other persons" for various reasons, including those listed below.
Further, at her coronation, Elizabeth II's oath contained a provision requiring her to promise to govern according to the rules and customs of the realms, naming each one separately.
Discontent with the monarchy reached its peak on the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, although Elizabeth's personal popularity—as well as general support for the monarchy—rebounded after her live television broadcast to the world five days after Diana's death.
Many Māori apparently believed that they were simply giving the British Queen first offer on land, after which they could sell it to anyone.
Ministers The following members served in the Pollen ministry: See also New Zealand Government Notes == References ==
Military service During Delamere's time in the New Zealand Women's Auxiliary Air Force she was based at Defence Headquarters in Wellington, working in the team that coordinated the Māori war effort.
Powers, functions and services In New Zealand's local government system of territorial authorities and regional councils, Chatham Islands Council is unique.
Māori wards and constituencies for urban, district, and regional councils in New Zealand are electoral areas where local constituents registered on the Māori parliamentary electoral roll vote for candidates.
In August 2021 it was announced that the Prince's Foundation was launching an investigation into the reports, with Charles's support.
Legal career After the war, Beattie studied law at Auckland University College, and graduated with a Bachelor of Laws in 1949, before setting up in private practice as a barrister and solicitor.
Other members were made up from the various parties represented in parliament: four further National Party members, three members from the Labour Party, and one member each from the Green Party and New Zealand First.
Under this arrangement the shareholders obtain a tax benefit even though the company may not have paid any tax at the corporate level, and it also benefits non-resident shareholders.
He graduated from Victoria University College with a Master of Arts degree with first-class honours in 1950.
The primary objective of the office is to contribute to maintaining and improving the quality of the environment in New Zealand through advice given to Parliament, local councils, business, tangata whenua, communities and other public agencies.
This was because the governors-general could still perform viceregal functions during a regency in Britain, including giving royal assent to any Dominion law giving effect to a regency in that Dominion.
Dunning Thornton had reminded the ministry again in 2015 and 2017 that detailed assessment of the bell frames was necessary, but the ministry only requested a full assessment of the frames in August 2019.
The specific epithet (elata) means 'tall or elated', "in reference to this being one of the tallest species of Acacia".
Brachychiton diversifolius, commonly known as the northern kurrajong, is a small tree of the genus Brachychiton found in northern Australia.
The name Alsophila tricolor was considered the correct scientific name for the species, due to the species epithet dealbata being preoccupied in the genus by a species described in 1848 by Carl Borivoj Presl, now considered a synonym of Sphaeropteris glauca.
Callistemon 'Captain Cook' is a cultivar of the plant genus Callistemon, widely grown as an ornamental plant.
The Aztecs planted āhuēhuētl along processional paths in the gardens of Chapultepec because of its association with government.
One is in the Rio Grande Valley of southernmost Texas, while the other is in southern New Mexico, near Las Cruces.
Uses The plant is propagated by corms and plant division, and is a popular ornamental in both the local and international markets.
Ecology Uses Brahea armata has an attractive appearance, especially when young, and is commonly available at nurseries in the American southwest and in warm temperate locations elsewhere.
Although listed as Endangered in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, the same research has suggested that this classification is unwarranted.
The central style is surrounded by four yellow anthers which are also joined at the base with the tips rolled back, so that it resembles a cross when viewed end-on.
Description A small bushy tree growing to at most 8 m (26 ft), it generally has reddish buds, shell pink 2 cm (0.8 in) flowers and typical red (if a bit pale) 1.5 cm (0.6 in) cherries.
cespitosa (synonyms: Deschampsia bottnica (Wahlenb.) Trin.; Deschampsia littoralis (Gaudin) Reut.) Horticulture The species is cultivated as an ornamental garden plant, and numerous cultivars are available.
In the 1920s, eleven healthy Medjool palms were transferred from Morocco to the United States where they were tended by members of the Chemehuevi tribe in a remote region of Nevada.
selloana populations are best distinguished by a Bayesian analysis of genetic features such as microsatellites.
macrophyllus – southern China, southern Taiwan, and Japan (Honshu and Shikoku) Podocarpus macrophyllus var.
It does not tolerate prolonged exposure to temperatures below 10 °C (50 °F), so in temperate regions it must be grown under glass with heat.
Leaves are up to 1 m (39 in) long and often sharply recurved towards the tip, looking stiff and spiny.
A smaller shrub with dentate leaves, this turned out to be an immature plant of the same species with juvenile leaves.
— Hilton daisy Gerbera galpinii Klatt — Galpin's gerbera Gerbera jamesonii Bolus — Barberton daisy, Gerbera daisy, Transvaal daisy Gerbera sylvicola Johnson, N.R.Crouch & T.J.Edwards Gerbera viridifolia (DC.) Sch.Bip.
Dianthus caryophyllus ( dy-AN-thəs KAIR-ee-ə-FIL-əs), commonly known as carnation or clove pink, is a species of Dianthus native to the Mediterranean region.
Uses Although verbena ("vervain") has been used in herbalism and traditional medicine, usually as an herbal tonic, there is no high-quality evidence for its effectiveness.
zebrina is illegal in the Philippines and is punishable with six to ten years imprisonment and a fine of ₱100,000 to ₱1,000,000.
The best distinction is the slightly brighter green tone of the leaves, compared to the more greyish-green of P.
Companion planting is thought by its practitioners to assist in the growth of one or both plants involved in the association.
Description The individually growing Gymnocalycium mihanovichii have a broad-spherical, gray-green, often reddish overgrown plant body, which reaches stature heights and diameter of 3 to 5 centimeters.
The leaves are dark green above, purple below, marked heavily with silver along the veins and midriff.
Control measures Pheromone traps (attracting adult males) are able to prevent impregnation of adult females and therefore control the severity of the damage.
Goeppertia picturata is a species of plant now classified as belonging to the genus Goeppertia in the family Marantaceae.
The hermaphrodite flowers are white, produced in corymbs 4–11 cm (2–4 in) in diameter at the top of the stems.
Specifically these are food or drink additives of mostly botanical origin used in nutritionally insignificant quantities for flavoring or coloring.
The leaves are approximately triangular, about 3,5 cm long, with longitudinal pale brown or greyish veines along the upper surfaces and small teeth along the edges.
Its role as a species of mature forests has led it to be replaced by more opportunistic species in areas where forests are cut over.
Each seed is separated from the others by a membranous separator, and has a long rectangular wing, which is much longer than the seed itself.
An application to register the name 'Dusky Bells' was received by the Australian Cultivar Registration Authority in 1980 and accepted in 1986.
Plants growing in southern Australia often lose their fronds by the end of winter, as is the case with Alsophila dregei in South Africa.
Description Clerodendrum tomentosum grows up to 15 metres tall with a trunk diameter of 25 cm, though usually much smaller.
The piles beneath the Rialto in Venice, and the foundations of several medieval cathedrals are made of alder.
Description It is a coniferous evergreen tree, growing to 15–25 m (rarely to 30 m) in height, forming a wide, dense, conical crown.
Mayten tree is fully naturalized in New Zealand where it is spreading very rapidly in the Canterbury region, it now classed as an invasive species and illegal to sell or distribute in NZ.
The bright green straplike leaves are soft, up to 35 cm long and 2.5 cm wide, and are borne along the length of the stems, rather than the tufted habit typical of Dracaena.
It has been popular as a gourmet bushfood since the early 1980s and is commercially cultivated on a small-scale basis.
This does not imply high rates of self-fertilisation, however, as the species appears highly self-incompatible: although pollen grains will germinate on flowers of the self plant, they apparently fail to produce pollen tubes that penetrate the style.
Uses Cussonia spicata is harvested locally for its wood, roots, and leaves to be used as food, medicine, and timber.
Cultivation Celtica gigantea is grown as an ornamental grass for planting as single specimens and massed drifts in parks, public landscapes, and gardens.
The inner flesh of the mature fruit forms a regular part of the diets of many people in the tropics and subtropics.
Name and taxonomy The curious common name of 'downy chance' alludes to both the generic and species names.
However, essences are not used to prevent, control, or cure cancer or any other physical condition." The essential oil of various species, mainly common vervain, is traded as "Spanish verbena oil".
It is native to Inner Mongolia, Manchuria, northern and south-central China, Primorsky Krai in the Russian Far East, the Korean Peninsula, and Kyushu in Japan, and it has been introduced to Bulgaria, Great Britain, Ireland, the United States, and Uzbekistan.
Young trees up to 5–10 years old bear juvenile leaves, which are very different, single (not paired), 2–4 cm (3⁄4–1+1⁄2 in) long, glaucous blue-green; the adult leaves appear mixed with juvenile leaves from the fourth or fifth year on, replacing it fully by around the tenth year.
Depending on the growing conditions, live oaks vary from a shrub-size to large and spreading tree-size: typical open-grown trees reach 20 m (66 ft) in height, with a limb spread of nearly 27 m (89 ft).
It is found at a wide range of elevations, generally in habitats that have limited competition from other plants.
Haworthiopsis tessellata, formerly Haworthia tessellata, is a species of the genus Haworthiopsis belonging to the family Asphodelaceae.
It was named in honour of Victorian 19th century parliamentarian and agriculturist Samuel Henry Bindon.
More recently, prostrate shrubs have received attention for their usefulness in planting green roofs and green walls, where they can contribute to environmental conservation.
Ilex pedunculosa, called longstalk holly, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Ilex, native to central and southern China, Taiwan, and Japan.
The tree is sometimes called fierce lancewood, in reference to its fierce-looking saw-tooth shaped juvenile leaves.
Adapted to cold, arid environments, its many‑stemmed growth habit fixes blowing sand, an important contribution to succession.
It is also found in the northeast of Argentina (Misiones and Corrientes), locally in Paraguay (Alto Paraná), growing in low mountains at altitudes of 500–1,800 metres (1,600–5,900 ft) and in northern regions of Uruguay where it was thought to be extinct until recent discoveries.
"Bromeliaceae da Mata Atlântica Brasileira: lista de espécies, distribuição e conservação" [Bromeliaceae of the brazilian Atlantic Forest: checklist, distribution and conservation].
The small, scented flowers, are 6–8 cm (2–3 in) in diameter, come in shades of blue, from violet, blue-violet, deep purple, blue-purple, deep blue-purple, pale purple, deep blue, to mid-blue.
The genome of Fraxinus excelsior has been sequenced using the self-pollinated offspring of a tree from Worcestershire, held by the Earth Trust.
Areas occupied by mountain hemlock generally have a cool to cold maritime climate that includes mild to cold winters, a short, warm-to-cool growing season and moderate to high precipitation.
It feeds on the sap of developing conifer cones throughout its life, and its sap-sucking causes the developing seeds to wither and misdevelop.
Distribution The natural range of this species is in the arid Little Karoo area around the boundary between the Western Cape and the Eastern Cape Provinces, South Africa.
Taxonomy A global phylogeny of Asplenium published in 2020 divided the genus into eleven clades, which were given informal names pending further taxonomic study.
Symbols of territorial entities and organizations The carnation is the national flower of Spain, Monaco, and Slovenia, and the provincial flower of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands.
An attempt was tried to grow the iris in West Germany and the US (near New York City), but they were unsuccessful, due to high humidity conditions.
huegelii ms Distribution Preference for temperate and sandy coastal plains from Geraldton to the Esperance Plains, predominantly those of the north and south mallee shrubland and heath.
Gallery References External links Pampas grass Cortaderia selloana Blueplanetbiomes.org Pampas Grass under the microscope Pampas Grass Montserrat, Vila (2009).
bipinnatifidum is cultivated as a landscape plant in many tropical, subtropical and warm temperate countries including the Philippines, throughout Australia, the gulf coast and east coast of the United States, including Florida and California, and in South Africa and northern New Zealand.
Medicinal Allium chinense is used as a folk medicine in tonics to help the intestines, and as a stomachic.
Cultivation Various forms of Rosa chinensis have been cultivated in gardens in China for a long time; therefore, it is not easy to distinguish between wild forms and cultivated forms.
Cultivation Heat and drought tolerant, it can be grown as a specimen tree or as a hedge bush, and it's hardy from zone 8b to 11.
The fruit is used to treat common colds, diabetes, asthma, headaches, diarrhea, and gallstones, while the roots are used as a diuretic.
Description This species has a fast growth rate of up to 10 to 80 cm (4 to 31 in) a year, growing to about 6 m (20 ft) tall.
The hard shells, fibrous husks and long pinnate leaves are used to make a products for furnishing and decoration.
Description It is an evergreen or semi-deciduous, vigorously-growing climber, capable of reaching 5 m in height.
There is a prominent, dark brown gland below the lowest pinna and sometimes a gland at the base of the uppermost pinnae.
It is native in Greece and Albania and may be naturalized elsewhere in Mediterranean Europe where it occurs in maritime sandy habitats and in waste places.
Biology The adult scale insect resembles a limpet and remains stationary on the bark of its host tree where it feeds on sap.
The fronds usually have a half-twist so that the leaflets at the distal end are more or less vertical.
The juvenile leaves are very long and narrow, measuring up to 25 by 1 cm (9.8 by 0.4 in), while the mature leaves are broadly oblanceolate, measuring up to 15.5 by 5 cm (6.1 by 2.0 in).
In order to increase the efficiency of weed control not only chemical weed control should be applied but also mechanical weed control.
The tree was called platane in ancient Greek history and literature and by related names in continental Europe.
The flowers are white or creamy-white, the corolla with a tubular base 0.16–0.24" (4–6 mm) long and a four-lobed apex 0.12–0.24" (3–6 mm) across, and a strong fragrance; they are produced in broad panicles 5–30 cm (2.0–11.8 in) long and 3–20 cm (1.2–7.9 in) broad in early summer.
A deciduous shrub reaching 2.5 m (8 ft), it is typically found in scrublands and mixed evergreen/deciduous forests, at elevations from 100 to 1,500 m (300 to 4,900 ft) above sea level.
Today the tulip tree is one of the largest and most valuable hardwoods of eastern North America, thriving in temperate deciduous forests east of the Mississippi River.
An intensive hybridisation and selection programme was initiated by Jan Hoog (Van Tubergen nursery) and E.A.
It occurs in the wild on limestone rocks and south-facing slopes at relatively high elevations of 500–2,150 metres (1,640–7,050 ft), but has also been planted at lower elevations.
Cultivation Like most cacti, Parodia leninghausii needs well drained soil, sunny exposure, regular watering in summer and no watering in winter.
External links Erythrina coralloides photos International Legume Database & Information Service: Erythrina coralloides
Rubus formosensis, the Formosan raspberry or Formosan bramble, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae, native to southeastern China (Guangdong and Guangxi), and Taiwan.
They are a deep green color, and since these plants are grown in the tropics, there is no apparent color change that correlates with the fall season.
It is presently registered under the name Gypchek and is available for use in USDA Forest Service sponsored suppression programs.
The spikelets are stalked, awnless, 1–2 cm (0.4–0.8 in) long when flowering, and loosely arranged on delicate paired or spreading branches.
Distribution and habitat The plant is native to the mountainous areas of Southwest China, particularly Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunnan, as well as Myanmar.
The flowers are bright blue with white lobes at the end in the wild species, but other colours are available, including white.
Flowers are yellow, 5 cm diameter, at the top of the plants, but only if adult (at least 20 cm tall) Sometimes, they present monstruous forms.
Hybrids With Banksia hookeriana Banksia prionotes readily hybridises with Banksia hookeriana (Hooker's banksia) under experimental conditions, indicating that these species have highly compatible pollen.
This coastal forest is at least 13 kilometres (8 miles) long, with dense and tall stands of Pinus pinea mixed with Pinus halepensis.
A contribution of 2 or 3 handfuls of wood ash around the stump in the spring may keep the gastropods away and make a good contribution of potash.
The cones are 5–10 mm long, with four scales, two very small sterile basal scales and two large fertile scales; each fertile scale has two winged seeds 3–4 mm long.
The cultivar was produced by plant breeder Stijn van Hoecke of the Belgian company Rudy Raes Bloemzaden nv.
Description It is a twining evergreen climber, growing to 3 metres (9.8 ft) or more, with panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers in summer.
The combined application of those two herbicides has been shown to be recommendable for effective weed management in Papaver somniferum.
The genus includes a single species, Rhodosphaera rhodanthema, which is a rainforest tree of eastern Australia.
The annual football rivalry game between Clemson and South Carolina is known as the "Palmetto Bowl".
1880: Karl Maximovich published first scientific description of the tree based on the specimens collected by Przhevalsky and Bretschneider.
Hybridization The dwarf habit and erect flowers characteristic of this species were taken advantage of by John Seden, who rapidly evolved several garden forms, including a dwarf race of hybrids suitable for summer-bedding which became popular in Victorian England.
regalis is primarily a pest of urban trees; its sap-sucking activities reduce its hosts' vigour, and the excess honeydew produced by the insects encourages the growth of sooty mould, which is unsightly.
The acorns are small, 1–2.5 cm (3⁄8–1 in), oblong in shape (ovoid or oblong-ellipsoid), shiny and tan-brown to nearly black, often black at the tips, and borne singly or in clusters.
Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWVI) is a plant pathogenic virus of the order Picornavirales, family Secoviridae, subfamily Comovirinae, genus Fabavirus.
In 1939, it was thought to be a form of Iris scariosa, then in 198 Brian Mathew classed it as a species related to Iris suaveolens.
chodatii are similar in form and size, but their color goes from creamy white centers to yellow tips.
It is a hybrid born in Japan and one of its cultivars, Prunus × yedoensis 'Somei-yoshino' or Yoshino cherry (Japanese: 染井吉野 or ソメイヨシノ, Hepburn: Somei Yoshino), is one of the most popular and widely planted cherry cultivars in temperate regions around the world today.
Fraxinus velutina, the velvet ash, Arizona ash or Modesto ash, is a species of Fraxinus native to southwestern North America, in the United States from southern California east to Texas, and in Mexico from northern Baja California east to Coahuila and Nuevo León.
As of October 2025, it has not been assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
obvallaris, sometimes classed as a separate species), which probably originated in cultivation but now grows wild in southwest Wales.
The leaves are produced in opposite pairs on long shoots and singly on short shoots; they have a 1.4–4.7 cm petiole, and are rounded with a heart-shaped base and a crenate margin.
Fancy-leaf zonal pelargoniums – besides having green leaves with or without zoning, this group also have variable coloured foliage that is sometimes used in classifying for exhibition purposes, e.g.
The natural range of distribution is from the Macleay River, New South Wales to Maryborough in south east Queensland.
Rural decline The plight of Cordyline australis in the sudden decline epidemic drew attention to another widespread threat to the tree in rural areas throughout New Zealand.
The lacebark pine produces cones that turn yellowish brown as they mature and are roughly egg-shaped and 5–7 centimetres (2.0–2.8 in) long.
Being a warm temperate plant which dislikes temperatures below −5 °C (23 °F), in cooler areas it must be lifted and stored in the winter months.
It is cultivated in Europe and North America as an ornamental tree, valued for its feathery white flowerheads.
However, it must be protected or brought-inside as a house plant when frost is a risk, or when nighttime temperatures drop below 40 °F (4.4 °C).
One reference mistakenly lists its common name as 'Chalcedonian iris', but this is normally used for Iris susiana.
Like Akebia quinata, it grows in USDA hardiness zones from 5a to 9b: from −20 °F (−28.9 °C) to 30 °F (−1.1 °C).
Ecology An example of plant associations of Rumohra adiantiformis is found in the Westland podocarp/broadleaf forests of New Zealand, with flora associates including Ascarina lucida, Pseudowintera colorata, Neopanax colensoi, Alsophila smithii, and Blechnum discolor.
Botanist Simon Mayo documented that these were names of the same plant species that exhibited slight anatomical differences.
Description Haworthia magnifica is a succulent evergreen slow-growing species reaching a size of 40 cm in height.
dielsiana (Poelln.) M.B.Bayer – common in cultivation, with short blue-green stumpy leaves, with no bristles or leaf-awns and completely rounded leaf-ends H.
After a century of naturalistic landscape gardening and two generations of revived pattern planting some bosquets re-entered garden design at the turn of the twentieth century.
Cultivation For best results in growing Virginia stock, sow on the surface in patches or rows and thin the young plants to 6 inches apart.
The wood of the lacebark pine is not commercially used as timber, but it is used locally by populations in northeast China for construction, furniture, and transport structures like pallets.
Flower clusters grow at intervals on short equal stalks along the stem, with bright yellow to red or pink bilateral flowers.
Fossil evidence suggests that it has only recently become adapted to the Mediterranean climate as its closest relatives are part of the Madrean pine-oak woodlands found at higher elevations in the southwest US and Mexico.
Confusingly, another mountain near Arsiero in the province of Vicenza (Veneto), is also known as Monte Cengio Alto.
These palms are naturally found in groups, formations of several individuals, or composing large caranday forests where they present strong dominance.
Description Occasionally reaching 30 metres in height and 90 cm in trunk diameter, the tree's crown is dense with small leaves, above a tall straight trunk.
Taxonomy Narcissus broussonetii was described by the Spanish botanist, Mariano Lagasca and published in Genera et species plantarum 1, in the year 1816.
The species is indigenous to the wetlands of the south-central and south-eastern United States from Texas to South Carolina.
Allium neapolitanum is a bulbous herbaceous perennial plant in the onion subfamily within the Amaryllis family.
It is tender, with a minimum temperature of 16 °C (61 °F) required, and in temperate areas is cultivated indoors as a houseplant.
Throughout spring and summer, the fungus produces acervuli on the exterior of the necrotic areas at their mature stage.
The leaves are elliptic-acute, 2.5–15 cm (0.98–5.91 in) long and 1–8 cm (0.39–3.15 in) broad, with an entire margin, and a roughish texture with slightly impressed veins.
Numerous cultivars have been developed, of which 'Luna Red' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The fruit is a yellow-orange to red capsule 13–25 mm (0.51–0.98 in) long, with a single seed in each locule.
fargesii 'Carnival' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit (confirmed 2017).
Paul Fryxell, in the journal "Australian Plants" (1966), described the species as one of two in a uniquely Australian genus.
This event, known as the Concours international de roses nouvelles de Bagatelle (International competition for new roses), has taken place annually ever since and remains one of the world's top rose competitions.
An analysis by Rio de la Loza showed the seeds contain 13.35 solid and liquid fat, 0.32 resin soluble in ether, 13.47 resin soluble in alcohol, 1.61 erythrococalloidine, an alkaloid, 5.60 albumen, 0.83 gum, 1.55 sugar, 0.42 organic acid, 15.87 starch, 7.15 moisture and 39.15 inorganic matter.
Although medical uses of Erysimum became uncommon in Europe after the Middle Ages, Erysimum diffusum, as well as purified erysimin and erysimoside, have been applied more recently as Ukrainian ethnobotanical treatments.
Port Melbourne: Elsevier Australia - Inkata Imprint, copyright Forestry Commission of New South Wales (published 1 December 1989).
References External links Ornamental Plants from Russia: Quercus pontica Other sources Rushforth, K.
In many communities of the mountain hemlock forest in British Columbia and Washington and northern Oregon, Pacific silver fir is a major climax species.
In its native habitat it blooms between July and December producing inflorescences that appear in groups of two to eight on an axillary raceme.
The hybrid populations were found at Mount Reid, Tyndall Range, Crooked Lake, Brumbys Creek, and Tarn Shelf, while the individuals are located at Mount Kate, Pine Lake, Wylds Craig and Lake Dobson Road.
Cultivation Aloidendron dichotomum is cultivated in arid areas around the world, for use in landscaping.
Dark, disc or cushion-shaped acervuli are formed under the plant epidermis which then splits open revealing the fruiting structures.
Agapanthus praecox (common agapanthus, blue lily, African lily, or lily of the Nile) is a popular garden plant around the world, especially in Mediterranean climates.
The second variety was first described as a separate species Pinus pentaphylla by Heinrich Mayr in 1890, but in reducing it to the rank of variety in 1910, Augustine Henry pointed out that the differences cited by Mayr between the two were minimal and inconsistent, with much overlap.
In 2021 the new genus Oreomecon was described by Enrico Augusto Banfi, Fabrizio Bartolucci, Jean-Marc Tison, and Gabriele Galasso including Oreomecon nudicaulis.
It is also the host plant of Mononychus schoenherrii Kolenati (a weevil that feeds on the seeds of the iris).
After being administered via intraperitoneal injection to diabetic mice in amounts of 300 mg/kg, blood glucose levels decreased by 43.75%, and by 29.61% in non-diabetic mice.
Kevin Collins of the Banksia Farm recalled that for many years pale seeds were discarded by seed collectors, who thought they were infertile.
Many of the trees in the avenue of jacarandas, at Grafton, were grown from seed of the trees that she grew in the garden of the Fells' home, 'Rostrevor', at Northwood.
Common names include coolamon, watermelon tree, durobby and robby; it is also called "rose apple" but this can refer to many species of Syzygium.
Taxonomy The specific epithet pontica, refers to the Latin term for Pontus, a historical region near the Black Sea where the tree is found.
Taxonomy The species was formerly placed in Hibiscus as Hibiscus huegelii, taking its name from Charles von Hügel (Baron von Huegel).
Description Melaleuca nesophila is a large shrub or small tree growing to 4.7–6 m (20–20 ft) in height by 4–5 m (10–20 ft) in width.
The Shirley poppy is an annual ornamental cultivar group derived from the European wild field poppy (Papaver rhoeas).
Lolium multiflorum (Italian rye-grass, annual ryegrass) is a ryegrass native to temperate Europe, though its precise native range is unknown.
is well defined as its own monophyletic group, including species from the genera Cyrtomidictyum, Cyrtogonellum, Cyrtomium, and Phanerophlebia.
There is an alternative theory suggesting the name originates from the Persian word نرگس (nargis), which also denotes an intoxicating quality associated with the plant.
The pollen resulting from the hairs on the leaves and flowers of Western sycamores can be allergens for some people.
The flowers are borne in panicles in leaf axils up to 280 mm (11 in) long, each flower on a pedicel 5–10 mm (0.20–0.39 in) long.
They are in the same family (Melastomataceae) as a native shrub Melastoma affine, which is known as native lasiandra.
Haworthia cooperi is a diverse and varied species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, endemic to the Eastern Cape Province in South Africa.
Spiraea salicifolia, the bridewort, willow-leaved meadowsweet, spice hardhack, or Aaron's beard, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
The genus is closely related to the southern African genus Strelitzia and the South American genus Phenakospermum.
Its fruit, the world's largest fig (syconium), up to 18 cm (7 in) in diameter are edible but rarely eaten except as an emergency food.
A small number of trees have been planted in gardens of California and private collections in Spain, and all of them have acclimatized in those lands.
yedoensis Matsumura has yet been heard." In 1932, Koidzumi discovered that Yoshino cherry (currently identified as king cherry) along with the cherry which was found by Taquet were growing naturally and reported that Yoshino cherry is originated on Jeju island.
Haworthiopsis limifolia, formerly Haworthia limifolia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asphodelaceae.
Botanist Karl Moritz Schumann named it after Wilhelm Lenninghaus (1845-1918), a native of North Rhine-Westphalia who, in the 1880s, left his hometown of Ennepetal and emigrated to Porto Alegre, Brazil, where he became Guillermo Lenninghaus, and collected cacti for the German grower Haage.
This is well seen in the case of the colours of the Shirley Poppies, one of the subjects with reference to which copious statistics have been amassed and published".
Primary hybrids Of these, A, U and Sc groups are sometimes lumped together as Species Derived (Sppd).
It is endemic to dry areas of the State of Nuevo León in northeastern Mexico and can also be found in Spain and Italy.
Habitat It grows on the dry grasslands of the steppes, or on the dry stony slopes of the lower mountain belt.
It prefers well-drained or alkaline soils rich in nutrients and humus with good water provision, but is extremely tough and adaptable.
Hibiscus 'Albo Lacinatus' is a cultivar of Hibiscus that was hybridized no later than the late 1700s or early 1800s, making it one of the earliest Hibiscus cultivars.
The performance of most genotypes of Papaver somniferum is very susceptible to environmental changes.
Common names include Neapolitan garlic, Naples garlic, daffodil garlic, false garlic, flowering onion, Naples onion, Guernsey star-of-Bethlehem, star, white garlic, and wood garlic.
Aloidendron dichotomum, formerly Aloe dichotoma, the quiver tree or kokerboom, is a tall, branching species of succulent plant, indigenous to Southern Africa, specifically in the Northern Cape province of South Africa, and parts of Southern Namibia.
They measure 10 to 15 centimetres (4 to 6 in) in diameter and their shape is superficially similar to hibiscus flowers.
Distribution and habitat It is native to Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, and it has been introduced to the Canary Islands, Morocco, Eritrea, Ethiopia, South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.
Health risks Like all Narcissus species, daffodils contain the alkaloid poison lycorine, mostly in the bulb, but also in the leaves.
Varieties It is a relatively widespread species, with several known varieties, including arcana, gigantea, glaucophylla, keithii, striata, ubomboensis.
Latin species name multipartitus means divided into several or many parts, referring to the shape of the flower; it comes from multi- + partitus, past participle of partire 'to divide', from part-, pars 'part'.
Spanning approximately 5.5 miles (8.9 km), the trail provides a continuous off-road connection between northeastern Austin and the suburb of Manor and follows the proposed Capital Metro Green Line, linking to the larger Southern Walnut Creek Trail system.
Picnic tables can be found outdoors in many public parks, residential back yards, rest areas, campgrounds, amusement parks, and many other places.
The canal "would be cut in a V-shape, with a concrete base and grassy slope," with intersections only at President, Victory, DeRenne and Montgomery Crossroad.
In 1980, to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Alberta and the legacy of the former Buffalo National Park, four bison from Elk Island National Park were moved to Wainwright.
See also Protected areas of the United States List of long-distance footpaths Long-distance trails in the United States References Further reading Karen Berger, Bart Smith (photography), and Bill McKibben (foreword): America's Great Hiking Trails.
A fourth gun was salvaged by the British Government and taken back to England but it is unclear where it is now located.
History Royal Hibernian Military School The Royal Hibernian Military School was founded in 1769 as the Hibernian Asylum by the Hibernian Society, a philanthropic organisation founded in Ireland in 1769 after the Seven Years' War.
This is the only French-style garden created by this landscape architect, and the only 19th century park to have a French-style part.
The park was officially opened on 6 September 1996, although it had been open to the public since December 1995; in 1998, it was added to the Civic District Heritage Trail.
The tomb was repaired in 1973 and in the 1990s, including the addition of a concrete block to support the capstone.
Some are open-air museums – heritage parks – devoted to depiction of daily life or occupational activity at a particular time and place, and may feature re-creations of typical buildings of an era.
Lathkill Dale is known for its range of wildflower species (including orchids and the rare Jacob's ladder), butterflies, ancient woodland and the presence of birds of prey, dippers, woodpeckers and water voles.
The greening of such alleys or laneways can also involve the planting of native plants to further absorb rain water and moderate temperature.
Examples include Ballincollig Regional Park (managed by Cork City Council), Millennium Regional Park (Fingal County Council), and Malahide Demesne Regional Park (also Fingal County Council).
The Serpentine Galleries are two contemporary art galleries in Kensington Gardens, Westminster, Greater London.
In the 21st century, the Emden Gun in Hyde Park remains a reminder of an important victory for the Australian Navy and the Australian crew involved in the Emden action.
Birmingham Blitz On the night of 11 December 1940, all but the fine tower of St Thomas' and classical west portico was destroyed by German bombs.
The Santa Maria Ship & Museum, a replica of Christopher Columbus's Santa María, was docked on the Scioto River by the park beginning in 1991, as part of the city's 1992 Christopher Columbus Quincentennial Jubilee, celebrating the 500th anniversary of Columbus's voyage to the Americas.
Little excavation work was conducted at Moundville by the Bureau of Ethnology's Division of Mound Exploration, partly because the landowner imposed a fee.
Today it is thought more likely to be a strongly Hellenised Punic cult, perhaps to Demeter or Asclepius-Eshmun.
Columbia Parkway carries US-50 traffic from downtown towards east-side suburbs of Mariemont, Anderson, and Milford, and is a limited access road from downtown to the Village of Mariemont.
Their exhibitions, architecture, education and public programmes attract up to 1.2 million visitors a year.
The series presents the work of an international architect or design team who has not completed a building in England at the time of the Gallery's invitation.
On 14 January 1966, a tractor with a snowplough was clearing the landing strip of snow when it broke through the ice and sank to the bottom of the lake, taking the driver, Walter Wilde (29), with it.
The Sept Îles Archipelago Regional Park (French: Parc régional de l'archipel des Sept Îles) is a proposed protected area in the Côte-Nord region of Quebec, Canada.
It then heads south along Borrowdale to Rosthwaite and crosses the fells to Grasmere and then to Patterdale, returning south to Windermere.
In 1653 the poet and angler Charles Cotton wrote of the ‘Lathkin’: it is by many degrees, the purest and most transparent stream that I ever saw, either at home or abroad, and breeds, it is said, the reddest and best Trouts in England.
Maintenance: Some rangers perform regular maintenance on infrastructure or equipment such as fire rings as part of their duties — especially in preparing for winter closures and spring reopenings.
Index Seminum meaning in Latin "seed index", is a catalog of seeds of wild or cultivated plants offered free of charge or in exchange of seeds of equivalent value by botanical gardens or arboretums.
Crescent Island or Ngo Mei Chau (Chinese: 娥眉洲) is an island of Hong Kong, located southeast of Crooked Island (Kat O) and northeast of Double Island (Wong Wan Chau).
After improvements were made to the Mormon Road wagon route in 1855, it had become what was known as the Los Angeles - Salt Lake Road.
On April 17, 2020, UC Berkeley published its plans for the People's Park Housing Project during its third virtual open house.
In that period, the embankment was reshaped, the paved promenade on the river wall, the stairs, the fountains, the lighting and the first plantings were executed.
Citing the city's Adopt-a-Park program, which encourages residents to keep small parks clean, permission was granted by the program's director.
If opening the ice to public use is possible, and those responsible give it their blessing, specific, demarcated areas of the lake are opened, but never the whole lake.
The museum exhibit claimed the shadow belonged to a 42-year-old woman named Mitsuno Ochi (越智ミツノ, Ochi Mitsuno), but conclusive proof of this claim cannot be determined and the victim's identity remains unknown.
Delta The Nemunas Delta wetlands are considered globally significant and are protected under the Ramsar Convention.
History The land where the park now stands was until the end of the 18th century a swampy area, between the wandering arms of Bega River in the south of the Timișoara Fortress.
The islands are Petite Boule, Grosse Boule, Grande Basque, Petite Basque, île du Corossol, île Manowin and the îlets De Quen.
Park systems are included, but not ranked because park systems are networks that contain multiple parks.
The ranch also had Japanese silkie bantam chickens, Buff Cochin bantams, White King pigeons, "several varieties of pheasants, twelve varieties of doves, and several hundred finches, canaries, and other small birds," and ostriches.
A potential eastward extension of Rail Deck Park to include Oxford Place could place the park among the largest rail deck parks in the world, with a total combined park area of nearly 10.5 hectares (26 acres).
The west of the park is clearly narrowed between Notre-Dame-en-Saint-Melaine to the north and the Anne de Bretagne college to the south; it can be accessed by Place Saint-Melaine, the closest entrance to the center of the city.
The resulting lake is 3,050 acres (1,230 ha) in total area, has 75 miles (121 km) of shoreline, and is 18 miles (29 km) long.
The 583 km2 (225 sq mi) park land was developed for use by Canadian Forces Base Wainwright and comprises the majority of its space.
The train then climbs up a small slope and enters into a pre-lift hill brake run, to reduce stress on the ride.
At the end of the Punic invasion the owners had never recovered it so it had escaped the clutches of the Carthaginians.
Built following plans by Georg Wenzeslaus von Knobelsdorff it arose as a representation of the revived interest in garden architecture.
In some states, such as Illinois, park districts are also authorized to have their own park police departments, independent of the other local police departments or state or national park police.
Heyns notified the media via a press release that the university would build a fence around the property and begin construction.
Its source is located at 39°56′52″N 111°40′37″W, the confluence of Shram Creek and an unnamed creek that flows through the Frank Young Canyon.
2024 California Supreme Court decision On June 6, 2024, the California Supreme Court unanimously sided with the university in an appeal to begin construction on the site.
Park Place (formerly Molson Park) is a power centre located in the south end of Barrie, Ontario, Canada.
State statutes often have a general law to provide for park districts' creation, dissolution, geographic borders, and annexation; the selection of governing boards, often referred to as park boards; and the criteria for levying property taxes on behalf of the district.
History Since the establishment of Haddenham & Thame Parkway station in 1987, there have been calls for a safe walking and cycling link between Haddenham and Thame.
See also List of parks in Columbus, Ohio References External links Official website Scioto Mile page
Concert venue In 1987, the Toronto-based Edgefest began looking for a new open-air venue to support large acts.
It claims on its website to have the largest membership of any polo club in Europe, and is one of the four polo clubs in the United Kingdom that stage elite high goal tournaments; the others are the Cirencester Park, Cowdray Park and Royal County of Berkshire Polo Club.
On February 3, 2025, Westside Park was renamed to Shirley Clarke Franklin Park, in honor of the former mayor of Atlanta.
It is not waymarked, but is recognised by the Long Distance Walkers Association, and by several commercial companies which offer packaged walking holidays over the route.
It is also a popular tourist attraction since it is much closer to the centre of the city than the larger Soviet war memorial at Treptower Park.
History The road originally opened as Dart Boulevard on June 16, 1987 as a two-mile stretch between U.S.
The area contained a building for public balls and concerts as well as a park, and was used for balls, concerts, fire works, military parades and all sorts of artists performances against an entrance fee.
In the centre of the delta lies Lithuania's largest island, Rusnė Island (5 km²), and its eponymous village.
The creation of the botanical garden and its collection of plants was the work of Professor Jean Danthon.
Grace had a fondness for horticulture and studied art and horticulture at The Ohio State University.
History Biography and memorial plans Sonny Bono was an entertainer whose acting and singing with his wife, Cher, made him a celebrity during the 1960s and 1970s.
An old mill pond with a many stepped weir and a few mill stones are all that remains of Carters Mill (an old corn mill).
Description "Parks" in this context may be broadly defined by some systems in this context and may include forests, wildlife preserves, deserts, beaches, and even protected culturally/historically important manmade environments and monuments.
The park suffered from its breeding success and the limited understanding of how to manage such wildlife populations.
See also Paleontology Prehistoric life Timeline of geography, paleontology, biology Synchrotron X-ray tomographic microscopy Fossil Parks of India List of fossil sites == References ==
Following Ferreira Leal's rearrangement of the park, the Passeio quickly become a social meeting place for the aristocracy of Lisbon.
The endangered Gurney's pitta (Hydrornis gurneyi) was rediscovered in the area of the proposed park in 2003.
Attractions Alma Park Zoo was fully landscaped with walking paths through tropical gardens under a canopy of rainforest trees and plants.
History Natural urban beaches by the sea have attracted both tourists and locals for a long time, such as the Copacabana of Rio, the central beach of San Sebastián, or the City Beach in Stralsund.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
A diversion of certain paths was carried out in 2010 around the cedar near the menagerie, in order to preserve the roots.
Two proposals were considered, but the preferred design consisted of a semicircular concept, with the centre containing a water feature and shrubs of the national colours planted around the park.
It consists of approximately 56,000 acres (230 km2) and is the largest privately owned nature preserve in the Southeastern United States.
The monument and its tanks are a background feature of Rory's jet-lagged run in Tom Hanks' short story "A Junket in the City of Light".
The Office of Public Works stated that the damage had resulted from the failure of the earlier repairs.
This variety of species is joined by brown trout, char and rainbow trout where the streams enter the lake, and by eels and burbot on the lake bed.
The conches on the sides, arranged into the shape of waterfalls and the great shell inside, made from many real shells, are a characteristic theme of Rococo.
The trail began as the Okeechobee Segment of the Florida National Scenic Trail (FNST), a 1,000 mile trail that runs from Miami to Pensacola.
In addition, it is possible that a moraine (deposit of rock material that is transported with the glacier) prevents the runoff.
Puente de Vallecas Parque Lineal del Manzanares (also in Usera); 97.3 ha in the municipality of Madrid.
The ancient texts of India refer to Mandala Vatikas that were dedicated to deities such as Ganesha, Durga, Lakshmi, Shiva, Kartikeya, to planets and even to constellations (Nakshatra Vana), so that individuals could meditate in these groves.
History The park is located in land previously part of the San Luis farm, which was expropirated by the government of President Eduardo Frei Montlava which was sold to the Las Condes Municipality.
The reserve serves as a haven for the locally threatened gopher tortoise, an inhabitant of longleaf pine forests.
La Demajagua functions as a museum of site and collaborates with local schools, particularly in Manzanillo, to promote historical education.
A park may feature walking paths and decorative landscaping, while a park intended to provide recreation for children may include a playground.
At the entrance, on the ground, is a plaque that reads as follows: IN MEMORY OF MY FRIEND SONNY BONO 1935-1998; ENTERTAINER - ENTREPRENEUR - STATESMAN - FRIEND.
Little Switzerland and tourism The Little Switzerland term refers to the coast and countryside around Lynton and Lynmouth, including the Valley of Rocks, Watersmeet and Heddon Valley.
A similar project in Metro Manila, the Pasig River Esplanade, is a planned 25-kilometre (16-mile) linear park, of which about 1.1 km (0.68 mi) have been completed in several sections.
The tunnel was originally built by the Great Southern and Western Railway company to connect Kingsbridge station to the Dublin Docklands, and primarily used for freight.
Access European route E60 București – Moviliţa – Urziceni – National road DN2A Slobozia – Țăndărei – Giurgeni – bridge Giurgeni-Vadu Oii == References ==
As of 2015, the park, covering an area of 108,000 hectares (1,080 km2), was projected to be open by 2021.
While the walls prevent wind damage to the fruit, they also retain nighttime humidity, creating a microclimate within the garden that is much cooler and more humid than the surrounding environment.
John Knox, president of the Vancouver Southsiders, described Empire as their ancestral home and that "it gave us a taste of the experience our parents and their parents had when going to matches in Vancouver." TransLink served the stadium with the routes 28 and 135.
In 1999, Haddenham Safe Walking and Cycling group, also known as HaddSWAC, was established by Robyn Thorogood to campaign for this link.
Taylorsville Lake State Park is a public recreation area encompassing more than 1,650 acres (670 ha) in Spencer County, Kentucky, roughly midway between Louisville and Lexington.
During World War II the pool was drained and part of Chestnut Avenue was used for Camp Griffiss, the first headquarters of SHAEF and the base where D-Day was planned.
Serpentine South Serpentine South, previously known as the Serpentine Gallery, was established in 1970 and is housed in a Grade II listed former tea pavilion built in 1933–34 by the architect James Grey West.
There are several buildings within the park, such as the My Art Space, a studio-cafe that hosts art classes.
She was responsible for identifying the plant Gelsemium elegans as a possible cause of the poisoning of Alexander Perepilichny in 2015.
The Austin to Manor Trail is a multi-use cycling and pedestrian trail in Travis County, Texas, United States.
Gallery See also List of individual trees References External links Media related to Hollow Tree at Wikimedia Commons
Around 1800 the official name was changed to Batthyány-erdő (Batthyány Forest) after its tenants, the Batthyány family.
National Association of State Park Directors is an organization dedicated to the preservation of state parks in the United States.
In 1988 the Wildlife Institute of India recommended that Mannarkkadu Valley 225.00 km2 be established as a protected area.
Overview The Club is based at Smiths Lawn, in Windsor Great Park, which is thought to have been named after a game keeper at the time of the Stuart Restoration.
PVC is a plastic that is a rot proof alternative to wood, and is often used on homes to prevent rot or siding damage.
History After World War II, many communities in the United States were designed to facilitate easy and fast access to destinations via automobile.
(Wilder was later sold to Memorial for expansion.) July: The Corps of Engineers determined that potential flooding was a factor as to whether the road should be built.
When the elder Raisley Calvert died in 1791, his sons inherited his substantial assets and land holdings in Keswick, including the family home, Greta Bank.
Mound Excavations at Moundville: Architecture, Elites, and Social Order (University of Alabama Press; 2010) 404 Knight, Vernon James Jr.
He was born in Greystoke, Cumberland, where his father—also called Raisley—was steward for the Duke of Norfolk's estate at Greystoke Castle.
It is important that the origin of the seeds is well specified, clarifying whether they were collected outside or inside the botanical garden itself.
Simmonds identified sesame in the food from Pret a manger eaten by Natasha Ednan-Laperouse before her allergic reaction and death in 2016.
In 2008, FEDENATUR promoted a Recommendation – that was approved- at the IUCN World Congress in favour of protecting periurban natural areas around cities and metropolitan areas.
Set into this dike at one end of the park are flood control machinery and a lock for moving boats into and out of the lake.
In 1814, the count of Ferrières, extraordinary commissioner sent to Brittany by Louis XVIII, decides that the bishop can recover his old pleasure garden: the public promenade is thereby shortened.
The Lake Okeechobee Scenic Trail (LOST) is a 109-mile multi-use path around Lake Okeechobee, the seventh largest lake in the United States and the largest in the state of Florida.
Over 33,000 acres (130 km2) are now protected in the Montgomery County, Maryland portion and provide welcome green space in this urbanized region.
Features Each year the park is features numerous exciting events such as Thunder Over Louisville, Forecastle Festival, WFPK Waterfront Wednesdays, Fridays at the Front, Fourth of July at Waterfront Park, and the Juneteenth Jubilee Celebration.
This route remained the only winter season route to the outside world until the railroad arrived in Utah in the late 1860s.
Asclepius' staff with a snake coiled round it (known as a symbol of the medical professions) was placed at the base of the seal to emphasise the medical interests of the School.
With the support and patronization of Chairman of Summit Group Muhammed Aziz Khan, sculptor Hamiduzzaman Khan began working on the sculptures for the park.
Even in rural areas, greenways provide residents access to open land managed as parks, as contrasted with land that is vegetated but inappropriate for public use, such as agricultural land.
Text of the Open Spaces Act 1906 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
Alberta Parks is a division of the Ministry of Forestry and Parks of the Government of Alberta which is responsible for managing Alberta's provincial parks and protected areas.
Its current appearance is the result of anastylosis (reconstruction using the original material) carried out – controversially – between 1956 and 1959.
However The Cambridge Dictionary of English Place-Names (2004) simply says the reason for the addition is unknown.
The site previously hosted the Pulzor neighborhood, whose residents were primarily engaged in floriculture, producing rosewater and various herbal infusions from flowers and plant roots.
This park is one of the beautiful areas in Barisal with a playground, walkway, helipad, many trees and an adjacent lake.
Location The Cathedral Park is located behind the Metropolitan Cathedral, between the Bega Canal, King Ferdinand Boulevard and 16 December 1989 Boulevard, with a total area of 45,400 m2, of which 38,000 m2 of lawn and trees and 2,900 m2 of alleys.
To accommodate this new hall, the only remaining room in the old house of the estate's last owner had to be repurposed.
The First World War Memorial colonnade, which had been built as part of the Hall of Memory to designs by S.
The New National Gallery, the most significant element of the project, is due to be completed by 2028.
2021 occupation In January 2021, UC Berkeley erected fences around portions of People's Park to take core samples of the soil composition in preparation for construction.
It says "The Selinuntines are victorious thanks to the gods Zeus, Phobos, Heracles, Apollo, Poseidon, the Tyndaridae, Athena, Demeter, Pasicrateia and other gods, but especially thanks to |eus.
As part of the redevelopment plans, a set of Olympic Airways airliners that had remained at the airport since its closure – a Boeing 747, Boeing 727, Boeing 737 and a BAC One-Eleven – were acquired by Lamda Development, with the intention to preserve them and place them on display at the park.
It passes through Ambleside and Coniston, and on via Eskdale, reaching its furthest west on the way to Wasdale.
In 2011, the archaeologist, Andreas Haasis-Berner, published an article stating that they had to date to the period between 700 and 900.
The park includes multiple attractions, including a Children´s Park, Birdcage, Skate park, Rose garden and multiple sport areas.
These physical indicators—such as worn-down keys on a keyboard, chew marks on a pen, or paint transfers on road guardrails—provide an unbiased record of how an object or environment is actually used.
Alex Asase; Alfred A Oteng-Yeboah; George T Odamtten; Monique S J Simmonds; Asase, A.; Oteng-Yeboah, A.A.; Odamtten, G.T.; Simmonds, M.S.J.
For example, the beach of Barcola is connected to the center of Trieste by bus and people of all ages take the opportunity to spend their free time by the sea.
The petition was subsequently denied by the German federal government, which iterated that it would honor the 1990 Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany requiring it to maintain Soviet war memorials.
For something that was in the scheme of life pretty short-term, it was just an incredible relationship." Simon began planning a way to memorialize Bono in the nation's capital as a way to cope with the loss of his friend.
Gutach includes six villages: Gutach Bleibach Siegelau Stollen Kregelbach Oberspitzenbach Twin towns Worthing, United Kingdom External links Official website of the municipality == References ==
NRW announced they hope to hold two further consultations in autumn 2024 and 2025, as the boundaries of the park become more refined.
History In 1960, sisters Grace and Mary Innis purchased a 38-acre slice of land that would become Inniswood Metro Gardens.
In 1984, Inniswood Metro Gardens was open to the public as the eighth Columbus and Franklin County Metro Park.
Monique Sheelagh Jacquard Simmonds (born February 1950) is a British chemist and botanist who is deputy keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Queen Sirikit Botanic Garden (QSBG) is a botanical garden in Mae Rim District, Chiang Mai Province, Thailand.
The rooms for business, reception and coinage were on the first floor, the meeting rooms and cafeteria on the fourth floor, and the boiler room in the basement.
The announcement was made by Toronto Mayor John Tory and Joe Cressy, city councillor representing the Trinity—Spadina ward who described the project as a legacy for the city.
Many influential garden designers of the Italian Renaissance drew inspiration from the novel's garden concepts, incorporating them into their own designs.
2024 incident In 2024, David Ordoñez Castillo, a 17 year old park patron, died following a series of seizures after riding the rollercoaster.
There are four types of trails: the national scenic trails, national historic trails, national recreation trails, and connecting or side trails.
It provides stroke rehabilitation to patients of all ages, inpatient rehabilitation to older people, and residential care to older people.
Enclosed, padded, constrained, low structures may prevent children from taking risks and developing a sense of mastery over their environment.
When conditions appear favourable for the opening the lake, daily ice measurements are taken by the Titisee-Neustadt municipal authorities at three or four places.
The delta undergoes annual flooding, but the greatest threats to its integrity are posed by pollution, agriculture, the fishing industry, and tourism.
While the locations, elements, and uses of pocket parks vary considerably, the common defining characteristic of a pocket park is its small size.
In some jurisdictions, furniture used in public parks is made by prison inmates as part of prison work programs.
The case involved five fields (13 hectares) in south Lancaster, the Moorside Fields, owned by Lancashire County Council.
The Balta Mică a Brăilei Natural Park (Romanian: Parcul Natural Balta Mică a Brăilei) is a protected area (natural park category V IUCN) which is situated in Romania, in Brăila County, on the administrative territory of communes Berteștii de Jos, Chiscani, Gropeni, Mărașu and Stăncuța.
The Grans Octoberfest and the music festival Fjordfesten take place here, as well as a seasonal amusement park (tivoli).
However, pocket parks are typically designed for human use and therefore may only provide limited ecological benefits to non-human species.
Birds ringed at the Cape have been found migrating to Iran, Egypt and even to the Republic of South Africa.
In the 297 years after the statue was relocated to its current site in the park, many of the waterspouts became clogged and only four were functioning before the renovations of 2009/10.
Both the Lions and Whitecaps moved to the newly constructed, then 60,000 seat BC Place for the 1983 season.
Badeparken ("the Bathing Park") is a 12-acre (4.8 ha) public park in the city centre of Sandefjord, Norway.
2022 demolition effort Just after midnight on August 3, 2022, the UC Berkeley Police Department and contractors began fencing off People's Park.
Fishing is the main attraction, as Taylorsville Lake is the most heavily stocked lake in the Commonwealth of Kentucky; it is known for its bluegill, and features bass and crappie.
Europe Gardening was not recognized as an art form in Europe until the mid 16th century when it entered the political discourse, as a symbol of the concept of the "ideal republic".
From October 2012 to March 2013, Los Angeles research collaborative Parklet Studies to design and implement a one-year study of the Parklets in downtown Los Angeles.
List of botanical gardens See also List of botanical gardens in India List of botanical gardens Ministry of Environment and Forests (India) References External links Botanic Garden Conservation International's garden search database
A sculpture garden may be private, owned by a museum and accessible freely or for a fee, or public and accessible to all.
The plants were sourced from Indonesia, Malaysia, and other nearby countries as well as Queensland, Australia, for the foxtail palm trees.
The Donnafugata Garden On 12 September 2008, the Fondo Ambiente Italiano (Italian Environment Fund) received a donation of a Pantellerian garden from the Sicilian winery Donnafugata.
In 2015, Hélène Littke noted that the "High Line in New York City started a worldwide trend of elevated parks", and new elevated parks are often compared to it.
Some have claimed that transportation engineers in the US have become too focused on separating cyclists from pedestrians and motorists.
It is to include a park as well as luxury homes, hotels, a casino, a marina, shops, and offices and will have Greece's tallest buildings reaching up to 200 metres (660 ft) in height.
The site had been a place where one could find trash, weeds, and rats, making it an unsightly area of the neighborhood.
An iPad-only application, iSOPARC, is developed by CIAFEL, a research center at the University of Porto, with the contribution of Dr.McKenzie, the original developer of SOPARC.
1974 April: The project was approved as an official project for study by the State Tollways Authority.
The Hellinikon Metropolitan Park (also called "the Ellinikon") is an urban development under construction in Hellinikon, Athens, Greece, on the site of the former Hellenikon International Airport.
This park also displays several diesel engines, valves, and pipes that once were part of the flood control facility.
There is a group of such burials, having mounds of similar size and situated on a hilltop or similar location.
Their height can vary from one to over three meters, depending on the size of the plants grown within them (almost always citrus fruits).
Prior to post-World War II border changes, it was known in German as the Memel Niederung, as the Neman was for centuries called the Memel in German.
Lucky Tor An island divides the flow, with a long boulder garden down the left, and easy rapids to a steeper exit on the right.
They claimed the consultants - Wilbur Smith and Associates and Howard, Needles, Tammen and Bergendoff - have provided studies for toll roads in Florida that were failing financially.
The plan was a portion of the extensive Beltline project to construct a ring of parks, trails, and transit surrounding the core of Atlanta.
The Neptune Grotto (German: Neptungrotte) close to the Obelisk entrance in Sanssouci Park, Potsdam, was created by Frederick the Great between 1751 and 1757 (1757) to beautify the park.
Landscape architect George Kessler designed extensive parkway systems for Kansas City, Missouri; Memphis, Tennessee; Indianapolis; and other cities at the beginning of the 20th century.
$5–6 million was estimated for its repairs, and with the extensive renovation of the Scioto's riverfront, the ship had to be relocated.
Leaves The unique characteristics of Garrya elliptica are its waxy convex leaves with wavy leaf margins, coupled with dense individual hairs on the leaf undersides that are scarcely distinguishable with a hand lens.
Charred remains of cowpeas have been found in rock shelters located in Central Ghana dating to the 2nd millennium BCE.
Description Myrtillocactus geometrizans is a large shrubby cactus growing to 4–5 m tall, with candelabra-like branching on mature plants.
Leaf juice is gently applied around the eyes for eye disorders and is also used in hair care, where a paste of ber, amla (Phyllanthus emblica) and neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves is applied to the scalp.
Cultivation Heuchera maxima is also cultivated as an ornamental plant for traditional, drought tolerant, native plant, and wildlife gardens.
Companion planting is thought by its practitioners to assist in the growth of one or both plants involved in the association.
Distribution and habitat The plant is widespread across most of Canada, the United States (including Alaska but excluding Florida), and northeast Mexico.
Uses This species, and most buckwheats (Eriogonum sp.), are of special value to butterflies and native bees.
A bodega cat, also known as a deli cat, store cat, shop cat, is a type of working cat that inhabits a bodega, which in New York City English refers to a convenience store or deli.
This mineral ranks a 5 on Mohs scale of mineral hardness, though it is considered brittle, exhibiting conchoidal fracture when broken.
The development also won the 2013 National Federation of Roofing Contractors Sustainable Roof Award for Green Roofing.
The genus is also widespread over the high eastern plains of South Africa, where it was introduced via contaminated horsefeed during the Anglo-Boer War.
See also Integrated pest management Pest (organism) Pesticide Pheromones Codling moth == References ==
Eriogonum arborescens is a species of wild buckwheat known by the common name Santa Cruz Island buckwheat.
During the Nationalist era when the Kuomintang ruled mainland China, as well as Chinatown in Singapore, the night soil collector usually arrived with spare and relatively empty honey buckets to exchange for the full honey buckets.
As a rule of thumb, the foraging area around a beehive extends for two miles (3.2 km), although bees have been observed foraging twice and three times this distance from the hive.
With both vetches, their agricultural usefulness is typically given precedence over concerns regarding potential ecological degradation.
Yucca angustissima is a low-lying species forming colonies of basal rosettes up to 3 m (10 feet) in diameter.
Cuttings made from roots that are "pencil-sized" will develop into plants when started in late autumn or early winter.
This genus is noted for its disproportionately high number of noxious weeds compared to other flowering plant genera.
Description Curio rowleyanus receives its common name from specialized leaves which are the size and shape of small peas (about 6 mm or 1⁄4 inch diameter).Its trailing stems can grow 2–3 feet (60–90 cm).
While once favored by professional and low-handicap players, they are now obsolete, replaced by newer Surlyn and urethane technology.
In 2002, Bayer CropScience was formed through Bayer's acquisition of the plant biotech branch Aventis CropScience.
Linanthus androsaceus) is a species of flowering plant in the phlox family known by the common name of false babystars.
The leaves are bunched in tight tufts with plants forming a very tussocky, low sward 5 to 20 cm tall before flowering, to 30 cm high.
The inflorescence is a raceme of urn-shaped flowers very similar to those of the related shrubs, the manzanitas.
The fruit is a juicy red or purple cherry 7–14 mm (1⁄4–1⁄2 in) diameter, which, as the plant's English name suggests, are bitter.
This species was the first magnolia to be cultivated in England, although it was soon overshadowed by the evergreen, larger-flowered southern magnolia (M.
Black gram is one of the key ingredients in making idli and dosa batter, in which one part of black gram is mixed with three or four parts of idli rice to make the batter.
Common names include redvein abutilon, red vein Indian mallow, redvein flowering maple, Chinese-lantern and red vein Chinese lanterns.
Important sponsors of the meeting are Andermatt Group, BASF, Bayer, Biobest, Biogard, De Sangosse, Koppert, Monsanto Bio AG, Oro Agri, Sumitomo, Syngenta, Vallent Biosciences.
Table of isolated biogenic compounds Abiogenic (opposite) An abiogenic substance or process does not result from the present or past activity of living organisms.
The evergreen leaves are oppositely arranged and up to 5 centimeters long, rounded to oval in shape.
Once it has invaded an area, Lonicera japonica grows rapidly and outcompetes native plants for sunlight and nutrients.
It is especially common in second growth, Douglas-fir or western redcedar forests, making use of those pools of sunlight that intermittently reach the ground.
Despite Marggraf's success in isolating sugar from beets, it did not lead to commercial beet sugar production.
For these reasons, ASP's are typically implemented at sites composting putrescible feedstocks (manures, biosolids or food waste) with a higher potential for adverse environmental impact.
Square foot gardening is the practice of dividing the growing area into small square sections, typically 1 foot x 1 foot (30cm x 30cm).
To encourage a variety of different crops in succession, and to discourage pests, each square is used for a different kind of plant (crop rotation) within the growing season.
Limonium arboreum is a species of sea lavender known by the common name tree limonium and siempreviva.
Polypogon is a nearly cosmopolitan genus of plants in the grass family, commonly known beard grass or rabbitsfoot grass.
Hazards As a main component of orange oil, limonene can dissolve skin oils, potentially causing irritation.
In order to determine where to locate hives for maximum honey production and brood one must consider the off-season.
Description Plant The stems are scandent (climbing habit), creeping, sprawling or clambering, and branch profusely.
The thick, wrinkly blades are divided into three to five toothed lobes, and are hairy, glandular, and aromatic.
The sweetly-scented flowers are 3–7 cm (1–3 in) across with five to eight pure white petals and a cluster of yellow stamens.
Uses Japanese honeysuckle flowers are edible to humans and appreciated for their sweet-tasting nectar.
Fruits average 88.0% water, and their dry weight includes 8.3% carbohydrates and 9.0% lipids, which is one of the highest lipid values among European fleshy fruits.
Extensive outcrops of Arizona flagstone are also found in Mohave, Coconino, Yavapai, Navajo, Apache, and Gila counties.
Taxonomy Rubber rabbitbrush was moved from the genus Chrysothamnus to the genus Ericameria in a 1993 paper.
Since most cockroaches remain in the sewer system and sheltered areas which are inaccessible to insecticides, employing active-hunter wasps is a strategy to try and reduce their populations.
Ground bay leaves, however, can be ingested safely and are often used in soups and stocks, as well as being a common addition to a Bloody Mary.
Bouteloua curtipendula, commonly known as sideoats grama, is a perennial, short prairie grass that is native throughout the temperate and tropical Western Hemisphere, from Canada south to Argentina.
The process of microbial proliferation within a body is referred to as putrefaction and leads to the second stage of decomposition known as bloat.
However, Limoniastrum monopetalum is now the only recorded species found growing in the oil-contaminated soil, since 2002.
Trass was formerly worked extensively in the Brohl valley and is now obtained from the valley of the Nette, near Andernach.
Distribution The species can be found in the eastern half of Africa, from southern Sudan, and South-Sudan to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Gabon, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
quadrifolia Randell (N.T., S.A., Qld.) has cylindrical petioles 15–25 mm (0.59–0.98 in) long, the leaflets narrowly elliptic, 20–50 mm (0.79–1.97 in) long and 2–10 mm (0.079–0.394 in) wide.
Taxonomy Five subspecies are currently recognised, although intermediate forms are commonly found: Clarkia amoena subsp.
It is endemic to the four northern Channel Islands of California, within Channel Islands National Park.
The glumes are 7–12 millimetres (0.28–0.47 in) long, usually without an awn or with only a short one.
Breeding has been eased by discovery of a cytoplasmic male sterility line – this has especially been useful in yield breeding.
Eutrochium maculatum, the spotted Joe Pye weed, is a North American species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae.
Cultivation As an annual wildflower, Mentzelia lindleyi is cultivated as an ornamental plant in traditional flower beds, drought tolerant and habitat gardens, and desert rock gardens.
Born of Eugene's radical political organizing community in the late 1990s, Food Not Lawns was founded in 1999 by Heather Jo Flores and colleagues of the Eugene Food Not Bombs chapter.
In California, the ice plant is found in coastal habitats from north of Eureka, south at least as far as Rosarito in Baja California.
The calyx is tubular or campanulate, they are slightly curved or straight, and the limbs are often 2-lipped with five teeth.
The worker bees in the colony mix dry pollen with nectar and/or honey with their enzymes, and naturally occurring yeast from the air.
During the wood oxidation process; microorganisms, mainly bacteria and fungi, degrade wood substrate into CO2, H2O, and subsequently release heat in the presence of oxygen.
See also Hyperaccumulator List of hyperaccumulators Permaculture References External links The Facts about Dynamic Accumulators Does Comfrey Really Improve Soil?
Oils from the families Lamiaceae (mints), Poaceae (true grasses), and Pinaceae (pines) are common haematophagous insect repellents worldwide.
Description Prunus pensylvanica grows as a shrub or small tree, usually with a straight trunk and a narrow, round-topped crown.
Uses Vigna mungo is popular in Northern India, largely used to make dal from the whole or split, dehusked seeds.
Ceanothus arboreus is a species of perennial shrub to small tree in the family Rhamnaceae, commonly known as the feltleaf ceanothus, island ceanothus, and island mountain lilac.
Though debate between botanists on the correct classification continues in the 21st Century, as of 2023 the most common place ment of the species is again in Berberis as Berberis nevinii.
Description The grass-like plant is typically smaller than other Dasylirions, with small crowns and trunks usually less than 1.5 feet, with long foliage reaching 3–6 ft.
Conglomerates are widely distributed in sedimentary rock of all ages, but usually as a minor component, making up less than 1% of all sedimentary rock.
Distribution and habitat The plant is found in the California Coast Ranges, San Francisco Bay Area, and San Joaquin Valley of California; and in Arizona.
Nevadaite is a rare phosphate mineral with a chemical formula of Characteristics Nevadaite is a pale-green to turquoise colored mineral belonging to the phosphate group.
Limbing can happen at the stump in log/tree length systems and cut-to-length systems or at the landing in whole-tree logging.
Location Nevadaite was first discovered in the Gold Quarry mine near the town of Carlin, Eureka County, Nevada.
Like most succulents, it requires very infrequent watering (about once a month), a few hours of direct sunlight and is not affected by humidity.
They also found a way to make plant cells resistant to the antibiotic kanamycin by transferring a bacterial neomycin phosphotransferase gene into the plant genome.
cerulea is cultivated as an ornamental plant by plant nurseries, for planting in traditional, native plant, and habitat gardens.
Vigna hosei, also known as the sarowak bean, is a perennial legume that grows in low-lying, humid, tropical areas but more commonly disturbed or roadside areas.
The use of compost, manure mulch and other organic fertilizers yields a higher organic content of soils on organic farms and helps limit soil degradation and erosion.
If the lines are allowed to drain between pulses, most of the water will preferentially flow to those at the beginning of the line.
Cultivation Carpenteria californica is cultivated as an ornamental plant, grown for its lush foliage, large scented flowers and drought tolerance.
After significant difficulty in cultivating this species in the laboratory, it was released once in 1993 and has not established in New Zealand.
It has clusters of four to eight flowers with petals 7–10 mm (0.28–0.39 in) long, with ten fertile stamens and pods 60–70 mm (2.4–2.8 in) long and 9–12 mm (0.35–0.47 in) wide.
Many of these bird-attracting plants are ornamental as well, since many have pretty fruits, red in color and often clinging to their branches far into the winter, furnishing grateful additions to the meager fare of hard-weather birds.
It endures shade in early life and light shade when mature; shade tolerance appears to be greater with increased soil moisture.
Taxonomy The Latin specific epithet jacquemontii refers to the French botanist and geologist Victor Jacquemont (1844–1912).
When used as a protection against the wind the fleece is wrapped around, or covered over the delicate plants to protect them from frost and cold wind.
Some particulates not filtered out by the grass filter strip or the sand bed settle within the ponding area.
(= Bignonia radicans, or Tecoma radicans) Catalpa bignonioides Walter Catalpa speciosa Warder ex Engelm.
As it matures, the plant will grow a small stalk or trunk at the base with the foliage growing out of the top.
Uses Indigenous Californians use the twigs of the western redbud to weave baskets, and even prune the shrub to encourage growth of new twigs.
Lavandula pinnata (also known as fernleaf lavender and jagged lavender) is a species of flowering plant in the mint family, Lamiaceae, native to southern Madeira and the Canary Islands (Lanzarote).
ISBN 1-85383-150-6 Whealy, Kent; Garden Seed Inventory: An Inventory of Seed Catalogs Listing All Non-Hybrid Vegetable Seeds Available in the United States and Canada, Seed Savers Exchange, 2005.
kanabensis Archived 2013-11-23 at the Wayback Machine Gartendatenbank, Gabriele Jesdinsky, Berlin, Palmlilien (Yucca angustissima) Archived 2015-09-24 at the Wayback Machine Sunshine Seeds, Ahlen Germany, Yucca angustissima, Palmlilie, Yucca
Cultivation This drought-tolerant and dramatic Dasylirion is cultivated by nurseries for use in both personal gardens as well as public or corporate xeric landscapes, mainly in the Southwestern United States (from Texas west to California).
Ecology It is a larval host to the ursine giant skipper, yucca giant skipper, and various yucca moths, including Tegeticula baccatella.
LECA has an approximately round or oblong shape due to circular movement in the kiln and is available in different sizes and densities.
In Nigeria, the seeds are prized for their bitter flavor; they are commonly added to sauces or eaten as a fried snack.
Hill Department of Entomology Macdonald College Cass County Extension Companion Planting List Companion Planting Infographic
In the autumn, it produces large (30–70 cm long by 20–30 cm wide) effuse inflorescences (clusters on a stalk) of tiny red and purple spikelets (the type of flower seen in grasses).
davidii is widely marketed throughout the United States, where it has reportedly become invasive in some, but not all, areas within which it has been planted.
Flowers The inflorescences are panicles emerging from the twigs opposite a leaf, up to 3 cm (1.2 in) long, the ultimate segments umbellate and crowded.
Phytoremediation Polypogon monspeliensis was investigated for its mercury-accumulating properties as a phytoremediation plant.
The green or yellow flowers are borne on spikes which resemble a medieval mace, and stand up to 2 m (6 ft 7 in) high.
Nepeta species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera (butterfly and moth) species including Coleophora albitarsella, and as nectar sources for pollinators, such as honey bees and hummingbirds.
Their benefits include: a 0-day pre-harvest interval (see: maximum residue limit), success under moderate to severe disease pressure, and the ability to use as a tank mix or in a rotational program with other fungicides.
In addition, a branch may be supporting the tree, and the tree can fall or roll when the branch is cut.
Together with other species in Mimulus section Erythranthe, it serves as a model system for studying pollinator-based reproductive isolation.
Biomeiler has been paid a lot of attention and the number of biomeiler has increased dramatically in the world.
It spreads beyond landscape plantings and has invaded foredune, dune scrub, coastal bluff scrub, coastal prairie, and, most recently, maritime chaparral communities.
At one time Brazil was considered to be where it originated, but its diploid chromosome count now points to Mexico as its place of origin.
macrourus – few flowered mountain mahogany, California and Oregon Cercocarpus betuloides is sometimes treated as a part of Cercocarpus montanus, var.
Setts, also called Belgian blocks, are often referred to as "cobbles", although a sett is distinct from a cobblestone by being quarried and shaped into a regular form, while cobblestones are naturally occurring rounded forms less uniform in size.
This is a list of undomesticated or feral plants, generally considered weeds, yet having some positive effects or uses, often being ideal as companion plants in gardens.
Netafim is headed by President & CEO Gaby Miodownik, and jointly owned by Orbia (80%) and Kibbutz Hatzerim (20%), following extensive bidding by half a dozen interested parties, including U.S.
(1993), The Jepson Manual: higher plants of California, Berkeley and Los Angeles, California: University of California Press, ISBN 0-520-082559 Hogan, C.
The two biflavonoids, 3′-O-methyl loniflavone and loniflavone, along with luteolin and chrysin, can be isolated from the leaves.
During the Oligocene geologic uplift and an altering climate restricted a majority of the group arbutoideae to western North America.
Bouteloua repens, colloquially known as slender grama, is a grass species in the grama genus native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico.
This specific behavior has also been documented in Dominican amber fossils dating back 15 million years ago, with queens of the fossil species Acropyga glaesaria being found preserved with species of the extinct mealybug genus Electromyrmococcus.
perfoliatum described as an "unapproved homeopathic medicine" with unknown safety by the US National Library of Medicine.
Distribution and habitat Yarrow is native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, being found in Europe, Asia, and North America.
(The digestive systems of ruminants such as cattle and sheep destroy and use all cellulose in their food, and their droppings remain cold and do not heat up.) Hotbeds employed in gardens are generally simple in application.
See also "The Bitter Withy", a folk song Coppicing Fascine Widmore, London, a suburb named for the withy Willow Man, a sculpture in England References External links Willows in the farming landscape: a forgotten eco-cultural icon (2022)
Bignoniaceae (Trumpet creeper family) All the plants of this family are found mostly in the tropics or subtropics.
It is closely related to the similar genus Philadelphus and is monotypic, being represented by the single species Carpenteria californica which is a flowering evergreen shrub native to the Sierra Nevada foothills in California.
Those who received promising omens from the Pythia were crowned with laurel wreaths as a symbol of Apollo's favor.
As with the tie stones, the capstones span the entire width of the wall and prevent it breaking apart.
Like others of its kind, it produces multiple offsets which can be separated from the parents in spring, and grown separately - hence the common name "hen and chicks", applied to several species within the genus Echeveria.
Zaluziansky seems to have been a deservedly prominent botanist in his day, with some views on taxonomy quite advanced for his time.
Berberis nervosa, commonly known as dwarf Oregon-grape, Cascade barberry, Cascade Oregon-grape, or dull Oregon-grape, is a North American flowering plant.
More complex compounds have been isolated, some of which were first identified in this manner, including perovskatone; the glycosides atriplisides A and B; and atricins A and B, a pair of triterpenes that are similar to oleanane.
Description Prunus emarginata is a deciduous shrub or small tree growing to 1–15 metres (3+1⁄2–49 feet) tall; west of the Cascade Range, it commonly reaches 24–30 m (80–100 ft) tall.
Abiogenic products may, e.g., be minerals, other inorganic compounds, as well as simple organic compounds (e.g.
Biodynamic Farming & Gardening Association Irish Organic Farmers and Growers Association (IOFGA) Organic certification and promotion body in Ireland.
Mediterranean On the Mediterranean coast, Carpobrotus has spread out rapidly and now parts of the coastline are completely covered.
Sorbents may be used to collect undesirable ions and act like a reusable ion-exchange resin, composed of charged layers of material that can be heated or otherwise treated to remove pollutants.
Significantly, farmers in developing countries are particularly affected by prohibitions on seed saving.
According to the City of Austin, Dillo Dirt contains levels of heavy metals including arsenic, cadmium, copper, lead, mercury, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, and zinc.
Feces, urine, paper, leaves, other materials for wiping, and potentially anal wash water all go into the pit.
Studies of fenugreek are characterized as having variable, poor experimental design and quality, including small numbers of subjects, failure to describe methods, inconsistency and duration of dosing, and not recording adverse effects.
Cotoneaster horizontalis is a species of flowering plant in the genus Cotoneaster of the family Rosaceae.
Mating disruption, due to the specificity of the sex pheromone of the insect species, has the benefit of only affecting the males of that species, while leaving other non target species unaffected[3].
Modern researchers continue to study whether reduced tillage improves weed control and yield for strawberry plants.
The name sorbent is derived from sorption, which is itself a derivation from adsorption and absorption.
This work in turn cites: Kennard, H., List of Trees, Shrubs, Vines and Herbaceous Plants, native to New England, bearing fruit or seeds attractive to Birds (Reprint from Bird-Lore, v.
Relationship to plant life In locales where gravelly soil is predominant, plant life is generally more sparse.
Considered a permaculture practice, advocates claim that the technique helps to improve soil fertility, water retention, and soil warming, thus benefitting plants grown on or near such mounds.
Distribution and habitat This shrub is endemic to the northern Channel Islands of California except San Miguel Island.
Description Lavandula pinnata is a shrub growing between 18 and 24 inches in height, with opposite, simple, pinnately dissected leaves, and square stems.
Filtration, adsorption, chemical transformation, and biological degradation are the main methods of pollutant treatment in bioretention.
Edmonton EcoPark is a waste-to-energy plant which burns waste from several London boroughs to provide electricity for the National Grid.
It is also used for other applications, such as electromagnetic shielding or low-profile surface mount transmission line in electronics and in the production of tiffany lamps.
It has sword-like leaves more than 1 metre (3 ft) long and it grows a flower spike up to 6 metres (20 ft) high.
Spanish explorers in California called the plant romero, the Spanish term for rosemary, and that common name is still sometimes used in Mexico.
By using the nutrient-rich soil of a retired pit, the arborloo, in effect, treats feces as a resource rather than a waste product.
The term “knap”(1500s) was originally onomatopoeic and meant “strike with a sharp sound” (with the k- pronounced) and later shifted to mean “to shape or work by sharp strikes”.
It has been reported that the Huichol of Mexico use the plant as an entheogen by smoking Tagetes lucida with Nicotiana rustica, and that Tagetes lucida is occasionally smoked alone as an hallucinogen.
Description Wavy hair-grass, Avenella flexuosa, has wiry leaves and delicate, shaking panicles formed of silvery or purplish-brown flower heads on wavy, hair-like stalks.
Larinus is a genus of true weevils, comprising about 180 species, mostly in the Palaearctic region with some species introduced to North America.
According to a more detailed description, Larinus are stocky in shape unlike the related genus Lixus.
Silk fiber: Fiber secreted by glands (often located near the mouth) of insects during the preparation of cocoons.
Leaves are succulent, greyish green and up to 1.8 feet long at a maximum, ending in sharp black spines that are up to 1.2 inches long at the tips.
Origins Sea Island red peas came to the Sea Islands from the Mende of modern Sierra Leone, where from 1750 to 1775, 50,000 enslaved Sub-Saharan Africans, predecessors to the Gullah, were kidnapped.
Cultivation Encelia actoni is cultivated as an ornamental plant for drought tolerant and wildlife gardens, natural landscaping design, and habitat restoration projects.
It has since spread all over North America, apart from the far south of the US and some prairie states and Canadian provinces.
Notable examples include the island of Baljenac, which has 23 kilometres (14 mi) of dry stone walls despite being only 14 hectares (35 acres) in area, and the vineyards of Primošten.
vacciniifolia were an extensive shrub in the Klamath Mountains (at the northern portions of California), which had ultramafic soils.
Taxonomy The genera Photinia, Aronia, Pourthiaea, and Stranvaesia have historically been variously combined by different taxonomists.
Studies have also shown anti-inflammatory properties against pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-ɑ and anti-bacterial properties against macrophages and gram-postivie bacteria.
AMSilk produces a lightweight material trademarked as Biosteel, created from recombinant spider silk, which was used by Adidas to create a biodegradable running shoe.
It was selected from German plantings by the British Notcutts Nurseries, and first exhibited in 1961.
California's seismic risk levels are almost three times as high as New Mexico's, and risk worldwide rises much higher.
Muhlenbergia sericea, synonym Muhlenbergia filipes, known as gulf hairawn muhly or sweetgrass, is a species of grass in the family Poaceae.
The goal of the conference is the exchange of business and scientific experience and presentation of commercial and scientific advances on the subject of the protection of plants and pest control in plant crops by natural (biological) methods, with particular reference to Bioeffectors.
Description Salvia uliginosa is an herbaceous perennial growing up to 3 to 6 feet (0.91 to 1.83 m) tall in one season, with multiple thin stems and yellow-green lance-shaped leaves that have serrated edges.
Beyond that, squarebud daisy displays these vegetative features distinguishing the species: The plant grows up to about 1.2 meters tall (4 feet).
These biocontrol products against plant diseases and pests can be used in the organic production of food as well as in IPM production systems.
In 1996 Jepson defined a California variety with smooth leaves, punctata, in comparison to which Gray's specimens, with pubescent leaves, become the variety fasciculata.
Other trace alkaloids include nicotine and mescaline (the latter of which is found in many cacti but infrequently in other plants).
Black gram has also been introduced to other tropical areas, such as the Caribbean, Fiji, Mauritius, Myanmar and Africa, mainly by Indian immigrants during the Indian indenture system.
It is native to the West Coast and Southwestern United States and Baja California, and is generally found at low elevation in moist areas.
millefolium was used in traditional medicine, in part due to its astringent properties and the mild laxative effect of its leaves.
Bees are able to communicate direction and distance of a food source by means of the round dance, waggle dance and shaking signals.
"Insights into Selective Gas Sorbent Functionality Gained by Using Time-Resolved Neutron Diffraction".
Ribes triste, known as the northern redcurrant, swamp redcurrant, or wild redcurrant, is an Asian and North American shrub in the gooseberry family.
Genetic Modification Techniques This strain was modified using Agrobacterium tumefaciens and plasmid pMHL2113.
Watercress—can be eaten raw or cooked; is considered a weed in some cultures (caution required when harvesting wild because of the risk of contracting potentially fatal liver fluke).
While this idea is quite common and often taprooted plants are used for this reason in companion planting, there is no scientific data supporting it, and the definition itself varies quite depending on the author.
but can be kept smaller/espaliered, has large green leaves splashed boldly with gold, narrow light orange flowers.
Gallery References External links Media related to Senegalia berlandieri at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Acacia berlandieri at Wikispecies
Each individual leaf is composed of 5 to 7 leaflike leaflets, each of which is up to 4–8 cm (1+1⁄2–3+1⁄4 in) (rarely to 16 cm (6+1⁄4 in)) long, lance-shaped to narrowly oval, and irregularly serrated along the edges.
Factors such as temperature, humidity, and the season of death all determine how fast a fresh body will skeletonize or mummify.
The CGMA is a statutory corporation, which reports to the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA).
The hybrid was given the name Juniperus × pfitzeriana and the male clone was designated Juniperus × pfitzeriana ‘Wilhelm Pfitzer’ with epithet honors of Wilhelm Pfitzer.
Combs had seen a similar clock in Edinburgh, Scotland, and believed it would be a colorful addition to the capitol grounds.
Madame Prévost was thus a pioneer, and her shop has been referred to as the first flower shop in Paris by Jules Janin in Les Catacombes.
He went on to win the Pannill Award on three occasions: 1998 for his Homestead hybrid New Penny daffodil, 2003 for his River Queen hybrid daffodil, and 2006 for his New Penny hybrid.
His contributions were recognized in 1840 when he was awarded with the Chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
In July 2019, the foregoing transactions were consummated for FTD's floral consumer businesses and FTD Companies became FTD LLC.
In 1976, Ramway was made an associate fellow of the NZEI, and in 1986 he was made an honorary fellow of the NZEI.
Moribana is not only an expression of Ohara’s creative departure from Ikenobo, but was also a strong sign of the Western influence in Japan.
His store was close to the rosarium of Empress Joséphine's rose hybridizer, André Dupont, in the rue du Four in Paris, from whom he became interested in breeding roses.
Becoming an authority for dahlia culture on the West coast, she published a detailed catalogue each year and acted as an introducer for new varieties which amateur growers would bring to high quality.
Similarly, Network SouthEast (NSE), one of the temporary aggregations thrown up by the pre-privatisation of British Rail, was looking for ways of making its rail services more profitable.
History IGP was founded in 1999 and acquired by Indian entrepreneur and investor Tarun Joshi in 2012.
Flower sellers are popular in countries like Mexico, India, Vietnam and Southwestern states in the United States.
By doing so, she fell sick herself, and died in Paris, during the establishment of the Paris Commune in March 1871.
IGP is an India-based online retailer of personalized, floral, gourmet, and handmade gifting products, as well as a distribution company, founded by Tarun Joshi in 2017.
Bataille's embroideries have the character of paintings that are composed with thread, including the picture frame.
The Shrewsbury Flower Show was an annual event held in mid-August over two days (in recent times the second Friday and Saturday of the month) at The Quarry, the main park in the town of Shrewsbury, the county town of Shropshire, England.
In the latter stage, the candidate prepares 5 floral designs, which are graded according to artistic and technical criteria specified in the AIFD Guide to Floral Design.
She is the first and only representative of not only Azerbaijan, but also of the entire Turkic-speaking world in this council.
Published works Throughout his career, Ost has published numerous books about his exhibitions, decorations and gardens.
She is said to have developed the first modern flower bouquet and played an important part in the history of modern floristry, which was developed in Europe in this time period.
The market was opened to all imported products in 1965 after the board of directors approved a petition by one of the wholesalers.
The red rose is also part of the official logo of the Democratic Socialists of America (DSA), being a symbol of socialism generally.
These include: Bud opening development, where buds are harvested early in development then kept in a solution of sucrose, plant hormones, and germicides before they open.
In December 2016, it was announced that the exchange will be moving to a 65,000-square-foot (6,000 m2) facility on 2nd Street in Chelsea and changing their name to the New England Flower Exchange.
She began studying floral design in 2014 at the Nobleman School of Floral Design in Singapore and officially transitioned into the field in November 2014.
Although these are no longer commonly understood by populations that are increasingly divorced from their rural traditions, some meanings survive.
He specializes in plant propagation and has lectured at North Vancouver's Capilano University continuing-education program.
Her annual rose catalogue was widely known and respected both for its information and elegant writing; and she also designed many gardens.
During Advent, children at the mission school Rauhes Haus, founded by Wichern in Hamburg, would ask daily if Christmas had arrived.
Archbishop Júlio Tavares Rebimbas inaugurated the diocesan investigation on 6 June 1984 and closed it a decade later on 23 June 1992.
Im Wha-Kong of Ewha Woman's University in Seoul, who also makes her own ceramic wares, is considered one of the greatest living developers of this art, and hosts quarterly displays of flower arrangements.
Like her aunt, she belonged to the minority of månglare who managed to become wealthy on her business.
In the first three years following the clock's dedication, $6,000 in coins was collected from the pool.
A kenzan (剣山), also called a spiky frog or pin frog, is a device used in flower arranging (especially ikebana, or Japanese flower arranging) for fixing the flowers in the container.
As well as flowers, the show includes other attractions such as cookery demonstrations, gala dinners, music and horse riding displays.
Over time, tussie-mussies became more of a fashion accessory than a health necessity and might have disappeared entirely if not for a small book by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.
Many types of flower frogs are art pieces with holes for flower stems and a container for holding water.
Although the text is similar to the contents of commentaries of the Muromachi period, the illustrations showed how to enjoy tachibana, which had spread from monks to warriors and further on to townspeople.
Their daughter, Nele Ost, is following in Daniel's footsteps as a floral designer and is currently the creative director of the company.
After a series of scandals and discontent within caucus led to Vander Zalm's resignation in 1991, McCarthy entered the 1991 leadership election to succeed him.
This group, also a business cooperative and affiliated with FTD, began operating under the name Interflora in 1953.
Roman Catholics in Germany began to adopt the custom in the 1920s, and in the 1930s it spread to North America.
However, on many recently made coats and jackets, the lapel is made without any loop, which would normally sit on the reverse of the lapel, beneath the buttonhole.
In Saint Petersburg, she stayed for two years and became an artistic celebrity in the cultural salons, where she was celebrated by diplomats and aristocrats.
Jean Claude Pernet, père (15 October 1832 in Morestel – 31 March 1896 in Lyon) was a French nurseryman and rose breeder, best known for his Hybrid Perpetual and Bourbon rose varieties.
His clientele includes numerous royal families, sheikhs, multinational organisations and humanitarian organisations like UNICEF.
Two large flower shows that preceded the San Francisco Flower & Garden Show in northern California were the Oakland Spring Flower Show which was produced by the California Association of Nurserymen from 1930 to 1978 (with a three-year hiatus from 1943 to 1945 because of World War II).
Her father later became an alcoholic and was ruined, her parents divorced, and she moved to the capital with her mother.
According to legends, these goddesses wore flowers as adornments, which inspired the Nachom tradition.
She is known for the works she composed during a three-year period at Ville-Évrard Psychiatric Hospital.
CBS News has described him as "the world's leading flower designer" while The New York Times says that "to call him a master flower designer is akin to calling Annie Leibovitz a shutterbug".
It was registered and added to Russian Book of Records, a national reference book listing the achievements of Russian people.
Vilsmark is an approved supplier of floristry to the King’s Fund, the Dulwich Picture Gallery and the National Maritime Museum.
In addition to the ongoing production of fresh-cut floral displays for the White House, the chief floral designer oversees the annual holiday decoration of the house.
Roses of Sam McGredy IV In 1962 he introduced a rose named after the younger of his two sisters, 'Paddy McGredy', a rose-red rose that bloomed in bunches on long stems.
The bucket is only temporarily borrowed, and an inventory of quantities delivered to each shop is kept.
Among her client were the a professor of Bothany, who recommended her ability to make her plants appear natural, and a Doctor Hamberg, for whom she made flowers and plants for his collection of horticultural anatomy.
In February 2022, the company secured $10 million in a Series A funding round led by DSG Consumer Partners, Rajiv Dadlani Group, 9Unicorns and Venture Catalysts.
He looked in the front window and saw the bodies of Basil and Roy laying bloodied in bed, called the police, and then entered the house with Sergeant Matheson.
Material used Material is evaluated according to its potential use and the price at which it was purchased.
Most cultivars are exhibited at a stage from one-half to three-quarters open – enough to show the pointed center, with no stamens showing.
Judge Ekstrom ruled on February 18, 2015 that Stuzman had violated the state's anti-discrimination law in both cases.
After Fiz' mother and Les' wife Cilla Battersby-Brown (Wendi Peters) leaves the street for Las Vegas, Kirk is left to look after her son, Chesney Brown (Sam Aston).
Jin Kanbara aka Jin-Jin Jin Kanbara is a second-year student and the dorm supervisor in charge of Taiyou and the rest.
Hovakimian's maternal grandfather, Isaiah Zachariah, was one of the members of Singapore's first Chamber of Commerce which met in 1837.
In 1847, Jules Lachaume wrote a book on flowers covering a wide variety of topics relating to floristry.
Members exchanged orders via telegraph messages and hence the name 'wire service' was used to identify the order exchange business model.
It includes a long list of roses hybridized by Vibert, including those introduced by others, excluding roses he introduced but did not himself hybridize.
Aerith and the restoration committee return in the Kingdom Hearts III Re Mind expansion, helping Riku search for the missing Sora.
Sometimes the pyramid vases, some perhaps inspired by the porcelain tower of Nanjing, were not used as flower vases at all, just as showpieces.
During development, Aerith was supposed to be Sephiroth's sister, as their designs resembled each other.
Bataille's works are held in the collections of the Lille Métropole Museum of Modern, Contemporary and Outsider Art and the Collection de l'art brut in Lausanne, Switzerland.
Chef celebrities, such as James Martin and 'The Hairy Bikers', annually practice demonstrations to the public.
While Chelsea remained the most prestigious of the Society's shows, Hampton Court was the largest, and readily marketed as such.
Cue chalk (used since at least 1807) helps the tip better grip the cue ball on a stroke and prevents miscueing, as well as permitting the player to impart a great deal more spin to the ball, vital for position play and for spin-intensive shots, such as massés.
Replicas of the original tulip vases were made in China and were imported by the Dutch East India Company.
Paul, Minnesota, points to Johann Hinrich Wichern (1808–1881), a Lutheran pastor in Germany and a pioneer in urban mission work among the poor, as the inventor of the modern Advent wreath.
Lynden, Washington's Holland Days festival is held the first weekend of every traditional song and dance, and Dutch markets.
However, these 131 species are only a fraction of the 434 native Mexican species which have been identified as having ornamental potential.
Ferguson, was filed as a countersuit by Stutzman to claim financial hardship she suffered as a result of the previous two lawsuits.
In 2022, she was appointed in the Yokozuna Deliberation Council, hence being the second woman to be appointed in an organization linked to the Japan Sumo Association.
Italy In Italy, the Radical Party (PR) began using the fist and rose emblem (Italian: il pugno e la rosa) in the early 1970s, after party president Marco Pannella obtained the agreement of François Mitterrand.
Contemporary/Dutch Style Contemporary/Dutch Style designs also involve contemporary and linear designs.
The arrangement is to be varied and expresses the diversity of nature, which is very characteristic for this direction.
Labour MP Tam Dalyell, pursuing Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher about the controversial sinking, added a second controversial theory about Murrell's death when he announced in Parliament early on 20 December 1984 that British Intelligence had been involved.
From 1921 to 1923, she spent summers studying art at Columbia University and the School of Fine and Applied Arts in New York City.
The historical information she provided in Table Settings, Entertaining & Etiquette has been referenced by both academic studies and cookbooks with a historical theme.
World War two During World War II, most employees were conscripted and the nursery business had to be restricted and relocated.
One of her biggest customers has been Anuel AA, who purchased more than ten thousand roses and multiple details for Karol G before the two ended their engagement.
In 1929, aged 19, she accompanied her mother on a trip around the world, during which they visited many famous gardens and greenhouses in England, continental Europe, and the United States, inspiring Roberts' lifelong interest in floral design.
Between 1987 and 1988, Ramsay was a member of the Picot task force, established by the New Zealand government to examine the school system with a mandate to examine management structures and cost-effectiveness.
Although the TRP went with a different logo, the party, and other organizations in what has been referred to as the "radical galaxy", continued using the fist and rose emblem when running in elections, for example the Pannella List.
The profit is therefore the difference between the advertised price which the customer pays and the discounted price at which it is charged to the agent.
Dogwood Day is celebrated every May 21 in Milwaukie, Oregon, "The Dogwood City of the West." == References ==
As the construction of the new building was on reclaimed land, the process greatly slowed by the discovery of many old wharf pilings, seawalls and sewers.
The Cochin Flower Show is a garden show held each year for five to six days in February - March days by the Ernakulam district Agri-Horticultural Society at the city of Kochi, Kerala, India.
Reimer moved on from shrub roses to concentrate on brilliantly coloured Hybrid Teas and Floribundas for private and public gardens.
Kordes' Sons) is a German rose breeding company in Klein Offenseth-Sparrieshoop in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.
Career Alexandra was born in Naberezhnye Chelny in the Republic of Tatarstan, Russia and studied floral design in Kyiv, Ukraine in the early 1990s and in Moscow in the middle 2000s.
The book was made into a color training film by the industry association Florists' Telegraph Delivery Association (FTD).
The plum blossom (梅花), for instance, is celebrated for its resilience and purity, blooming vibrantly amidst the harshness of winter.
Modern/European Style Modern/European Style floristry involves contemporary, linear designs that highlight unique forms of both individual floral materials and of the designs themselves.
She retired and opened a florists in Jakarta the following year but later returned to the acting profession, setting up a talent agency named Les Sphinx Promotion in 1972.
Gallery References External links Southport Flower Show official website Media related to Southport Flower Show at Wikimedia Commons
The UK's largest and longest running independent flower show, each year it attracts many celebrities from all over the world, from television and film to music and sport.
Life and career Noisette was born in Châtillon, a suburb of Paris, France, to an unnamed mother and his father Joseph Noisette, the head gardener to the Count of Provence (later King Louis XVIII).
References External links FloraHolland Flower Auction BBC documentary featuring the Aalsmeer Flower Auction
She worked as a consultant on interior design and landscape design for Paparazzo Development Corporation's clustered-housing projects including Heritage Village, Connecticut, the largest planned retirement community in the northeast United States at the time.
To maintain membership, accredited designers are required to document continuing education in the field.
AmeriFlora closed on Columbus Day 1992, but the cleanup, demolition of buildings, and conversion of the grounds into a public park extended into the winter months.
Nageirebana was a style of decoration for the zashiki, while rikka, the most formal style, was used for rites and ceremonies.
Dates and themes Previous dates extend to 1829, but PHS did not record their dates and themes in the above listing.
Shōka was firmly established in Ikenobō Senjo's work Soka Hyakki (One Hundred Examples of Ikebana, 1820).
In 1953 the name changed to Interflora and the slogan Flowers Worldwide along with the Mercury Man roundel became well known.
Plant nutrition, water quality and irrigation Flower crops were grown in field soil like all horticultural and agricultural crops.
During the early 1940s, Roberts operated the Roberts School of Dramatic Floriculture in Detroit, Michigan.
The House of Tudor that came to power at the end of the wars used a combination of their two roses: the ten-petaled Tudor double rose.
In 1960, she starred in Lahirnja Gatotkatja (Birth of Gatotkatja), a film inspired by traditional wayang stories directed by D.
However, in October 1875, during the conquests of tsarist Russia, the army invaded Namangan and chose the madrasah as a fortress.
One small candle was lit successively every weekday and Saturday during Advent, and a large white candle was lit each Sunday.
Appearances Final Fantasy VII Aerith Gainsborough is first introduced as a florist who briefly converses with Cloud Strife, a mercenary working for the eco-terrorist group AVALANCHE, as he flees the group's bombing of a Mako reactor.
The West Mercia Police took another three days to find her body in a copse across a field from her car.
Within the Advent wreath are candles that generally represent the four weeks of the Advent season as well as "the light of God coming into the world through the birth of Jesus Christ" although each of the candles can be attributed its own significance as well.
Paintings depicting the rikka of Senkō II, a famous master of ikenobō, are preserved at the Manshuin Temple in Kyoto, the Yomei-bunko library of the Ninnaji Temple in Kyoto, the Tokyo National Museum and the library of ikenobō headquarters.
In early 2016, the area was redeveloped and opened as a new landmark of Rattanakosin Island and the Chao Phraya River.
Cooke served as the Minister for Emergency Services and Resilience in the Perrottet ministry from December 2021 to March 2023.
William Pannill, a resident of Palm Beach, died at his summer home in Roaring Gap, North Carolina, on June 10, 2014, at the age of 87.
The Party of European Socialists (PES), formed in 1992, did not take up the fist and rose, but chose an emblem known as the "rose with stars", associating the sole rose with the stars of the flag of Europe.
They usually have holes to place the flowers into, or spikes to "spear" the cut end of the flower into.
Career Born in 1865 in Clunes, Cronin began working as a miner in the area, before relocating to Melbourne in 1886 where he found a job at the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Yet, it's likely that Chinese, Korean and Japanese plantsmen had a good understanding based on their years of experience.
The method of arranging the flowers is according to the nageire, or thrown in, style of flower arranging.
Texas-style homecoming mums are considerably larger today than in past generations and typically feature numerous ribbons and additional adornments, including loops, braids, whips (basket-style woven ribbons), feather boas, personalized teddy bears, die-cuts, and various trinkets and baubles.
This event is free to the community, starting with a parade through Main Street and ending at the local Elementary School.
List of International Garden Festivals (BIE recognised) List of other garden festivals References Andrew C.
In the 1972 general election, the Socreds suffered its first electoral defeat to the New Democratic Party (NDP).
Stephen Bennett outlined the benefits of RHS involvement: 'We can reduce the costs hugely… Apart from saving publicity costs with our extensive media relations network, we have a colossal amount of equipment.
In the West, Japanese flower arrangement (Ike-bana) applied to Western needs is a book written by Mary Averill.
Among their collectors during this period were Henry Chesterton (1870–1878), Gustav Wallis (1872–1874), Guillermo Kalbreyer (1876–1881), Frederick William Burbidge (1877–1878), Charles Maries (1877–1879), Charles Curtis (1878–1884) and David Burke (1881–1897).
A vacuum pump slowly pulls the moisture out of the flowers as a vapor in one chamber, and then the vapor condenses as ice in another chamber.
The new version made space for ecological concerns, with the emblem and acronym superimposed on a large green leaf.
The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979 and on the State Register of Historic Places in 1989.
Wanting to further his knowledge and skill with roses, Pernet then went to work for rose grower, Pierre-Hubert Portemer and later for the highly respected rosarian, Victor Verdier in Paris.
It was originally started in 1924 by the local council, but since 1986 has been operated by Southport Flower Show company, which is a registered charity.
As a German national, he was imprisoned by the Serbs at the outbreak of the First World War, but after an intervention by the local administration of Corfu, they then let him go.
The Flower Exchange was founded in 1909 when the two organizations combined in order to find a building that could better meet their collective needs.
See also Dinardi, stage magician famous for his performances with feather flowers References External links Meerreeng-an Here Is My Country - Feather flowers from Culture Victoria
In 2021, it was announced that the Produce Marketing Association (PMA) and United Fresh Produce Association (United Fresh) reached an agreement to under the name of the International Fresh Produce Association.
He resigned shortly after on June 18th, following a clash with Fred Ley, the civil service head of the marketing division of the department.
Environmental activism Walking, especially in hill country, was one of Murrell's favourite leisure activities from an early age; and she had a passion for mountaineering and even rock climbing until arthritis limited her in later life.
Special Items Buying special items allows players to improve the florist shop or to influence a client's mood and the environment.
It was built in 1882 as an exhibition hall for floral displays on the fairgrounds of the Kentucky Agricultural & Mechanical Association.
See also Fashion design Floral Jamming Floral shop Floristry Flower seller History of flower arrangement Ikebana Interior design The Big Flower Fight == References ==
In December 2017, the company raised an undisclosed amount of Pre Series A funding led by Venture Catalysts.
But there are some really nice, tender little moments in this storyline, and Beth is quite open and honest with Kirk.
The festival was officially established for its second edition when the "Festival de las Flores de Aibonito, Inc" ("Aibonito Festival of Flowers, Inc.") was incorporated with the objective of promoting and celebrating the town's floriculture and agriculture.
The site was formerly a warehouse and old port that had been in use for around 50–60 years, and since 1961 also served as part of the flower market.
Career Before entering the floral industry, Cao worked at Schlumberger from 2012 to 2016 in various planning and procurement roles.
Henderson added three outbuildings to her residence to create a quadrangle, including an herb house and a two-car garage.
He has worked on many major events, and was Head Florist for the wedding of the Danish Crown Prince in 2004.
His most popular roses include 'Baroness Rothschild' (1868), 'Merveille de Lyon (1882), and 'Triomphe des Noisettes' (1887).
Louis Noisette subsequently created 'Blush Noisette', the first Noisette rose, by sowing seeds of 'Champney's Pink Cluster'.
Chabana is considered by some as another form of nageirebana since the principles of the casual style are similar.
International organizations International Pressed Flower Art Society The IPFAS in an international pressed flower organization that promotes pressed flower art and offers education and holds competitions.
However, many herbaceous perennials have been selected from the southern US flora since 1990, so perennials are a significant group of the floral industry.
His MA thesis, supervised by Ian McLaren and completed in 1969, was titled Planning, policy, and practice in Maori education, 1936–1968, and examined some of the reasons for the relative underachievement of Māori in education at that time as identified by the Hunn Report.
In 1947, Christian Dior showcased his inaugural couture collection in his Avenue Montaigne salons adorned with Lachaume's floral arrangements.
Ramsay was a faculty member of the School of Education at the University of Waikato, rising to the rank of professor.
One day, while wandering through the Palace of Horticulture at the Panama Pacific Exposition, she noticed a table that was bare and asked if she might not bring a bouquet of dahlias to show the world what beautiful types California could produce.
The name is derived from the word combination of a pond (ike) where Prince Shōtoku (聖徳太子) had originally bathed while looking for the Rokkaku-do temple building site and the small hut built near the pond for subsequent priests to live in (bo).
There are hundreds of species and thousands of cultivars of plants that can be grown inside and outside of the home.
It is first heard during the flashback scenes with Aerith's mother at her house and also plays as she is killed by Sephiroth.
Dubai Flower Centre was developed to handle flower imports and exports, as Dubai is a major hub for the import and export of flowers and the airport required a specialist facility since these products need special conditions.
She also had a weekly radio program on flower care and arranging, and wrote a monthly column for the industry journal FTD News.
Associated as a partner in the business was her nephew, Samuel Newsom, a son of the California architect, Samuel Newsom.
Kanato Hibiki (響奏 音, Hibiki Kanato) Voiced by: Takuya Eguchi A kind-hearted cellist who is accepting of everyone.
As McLean and Matheson entered the parents' bedroom, Elizabeth briefly woke, asking "what has happened?" before falling unconscious.
Each year in March the SAF [political action committee] arranges for members come to Washington, U.S.
Some examples include: Marigold (Meitei: sanarei) - acceptance of love; dedication to a man even over family care.
She has with the same success manufactured them in leather, as long as this beautiful work, which in a curious way is reminiscent of sculpture, was the fashion.
It is notable for its architecture and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1977.
Career For a number of years, Seal grew dahlias with great success in the yard of her San Francisco home.
Pressing flowers makes them appear flat, and there is often a change in color, ranging from faded colors to a greater intensity of vibrant colors.
The word ganutell is derived from the Italian cannotiglio and in fact this craft, which can also be considered to be an art, was "imported" to Malta during the eighteenth century from mainland Europe.
Wu Bin's Lotus Out of Water (n.d.) presents a vivid depiction of a lotus flower emerging from the water, capturing the essence of purity and enlightenment associated with the lotus in Chinese symbolism.
Lemoine's last apprenticeship was with botanist, Auguste Miellez, at his nursery, in the village of Esquermes.
The PSOE stated that it owns copyright on the picture, although it was not clear what rights the designer may have maintained.
The nursery eventually also had 40 acres of land in Meurants Lane, Parklea; 10 acres in Greenwood Road, Kellyville; and 10 acres in Old Windsor Road, Parklea.
She manufactured artificial flowers made of leather, paper and textile, as well as flowers of wax, which was a novelty of the time and very popular.
As an inventor (1892–97) While Spinks was a world-class player, his lasting contributions to cue sports were the innovations he brought to the game and the industry resulting from his fascination with the abrasives used by players on the leather tips of their cue sticks.
Gary, Kirk, Tommy Duckworth (Chris Fountain) and Tyrone later abduct Leon Southam (Colin Parry), whose girlfriend, Ruth Walsh (Rebecca Callard), has been bullying Fiz in prison, which leads to Leon going back to prison.
DFC currently houses around 19 tenants from 11 countries that offer a diverse range of products and varieties of cut flowers, plants, foliage, fruits and vegetables.
Early years Lemoine was born to a family of skilled gardeners in Delme, Lorraine, France on October 21, 1823.
Biography She was born in Dunedin, New Zealand, the daughter of Elizabeth Martin and her husband, William Read.
Rose is the liturgical color for the Third Sunday of Advent, known as Gaudete Sunday (from the Latin word meaning "rejoice ye", the first word of the introit of this Sunday); it is a pause in the penitential spirit of Advent.
Pernet later returned to Lyon in 1855 to work for Jean-Baptiste André Guillot, (known as "Guillot Père"), to learn how to grow roses.
In many Catholic and Protestant churches, the most popular colors for the four surrounding Advent candles are violet (or blue) and rose, corresponding with the colors of the liturgical vestments for the Sundays of Advent.
Hong Kong Flower Show (Chinese: 香港花卉展覽) is an annual exhibition presented by the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD) of Hong Kong.
These are typically cases where the stairwell must be a small diameter to fit a narrow space, or must not have any center support by design, or may not have any perimeter support.
These religious monuments dedicated to the gods or pharaohs were designed with a great deal of architectural sculpture inside and out: engaged statues, carved columns and pillars, and wall surfaces carved with bas-reliefs.
Influenced by the Italian metaphysical art it is one of Ernst's earliest works showing surrealistic accents.
South of the Freiham estate, Centa-Hafenbrädl-Straße connects to the Freiham development area and flows from the east into the avenue.
The Gemonian Stairs (Latin: Scalae Gemoniae, Italian: Scale Gemonie) were a flight of steps located in the ancient city of Rome.
An outdoor candle, which is also known a pitch torch or a garden candle (Swedish: marschall, Danish: haveblus, Finnish: soihtukynttilä) is candle similar to a tealight except that it is larger (usually 10 cm (4 in) wide) and lit outside.
Coate's first maze commission, The Imprint of Man, was completed in 1975 for a private garden at Lechlade Mill in Gloucestershire.
Attachment A stair carpet may be held in place and fixed to the staircase by means of carpet tacks or a floor adhesive; and/or stair rods used at the base of the risers.
The knot patterns surviving in text and archaeological records from this period could be highly complex and they were always symmetrical and set within a square frame.
See also 1965 in art List of equestrian statues References External links Media related to Equestrian statue of José María Morelos (Guadalajara) at Wikimedia Commons
Gaudí, who designed only a small number of buildings outside Catalonia, was involved with other projects at Comillas.
These boulders are called "erratic" because they typically are of a different rock type than the bedrock on which they are deposited.
The palace, and in particular this room, was furnished with the many valuable artefacts the Duke had been given, or sequestered as the spoils of war, including a fine art collection.
The pool's Art Deco café built in August 1935 to cater for 100 people remains unchanged externally with glazed concertina doors and raised sun terrace that reflect the 1930s enthusiasm for outdoor leisure.
An aerator can be built using a small air compressor and strong tubes that connect to a diffuser that bubbles air through the water.
The association with "labrys" lost some traction when Linear B was deciphered in the 1950s, and an apparent Mycenaean Greek rendering of "labyrinth" appeared as da-pu₂-ri-to (𐀅𐀢𐀪𐀵).
References See also Japanese gardens Chinese garden Notes Wybe Kuitert Borrowing scenery and the landscape that lends - the final chapter of Yuanye, Journal of Landscape Architecture, 2015, 10:2, 32-43, Kuitert, Wybe (2015).
A perron may be placed in front of the main entrance of a building or house, either as a single stone staircase or pair of such staircases leading up to the entrance and built in the Romanesque or Palladian styles and decorated with arches, balustrades and corbels.
At some point, the stairs were made to be only about 1 m (3.3 ft) wide, as the surrounding residential area grew.
References External links Media related to Stone of the Empress (Helsinki) at Wikimedia Commons Keisarinnankivi at the Helsinki Museum of Art
A reflecting pool, also called a reflection pool, is a water feature found in gardens, parks and memorial sites.
aureus has a strong resistance to chlorine, which is one of the methods by which pools are often cleaned.
In September 2013, the railroad crossing was closed and replaced in 2015 by a pedestrian and bicycle underpass.
In 2013, Tiger and Turtle – Magic Mountain was ranked as #6 on HuffPost's list of Most Extreme Staircases.
In vegetable gardening it is sometimes used as a soil conditioner, because like perlite, vermiculite, and expanded clay, it retains water and nutrients, while draining fast and freely, allowing high oxygen circulation within the growing medium.
As bicycles are more environmentally friendly than cars it is important for a green parking lot to contain a bicycle rack.
The other players attempt to traverse the labyrinth by uncovering its design and achieving the objective (usually, finding a treasure and exiting the labyrinth with it).
The Wardian case was the direct forerunner of the modern terrarium and vivarium and the inspiration for the glass aquarium.
Features The facility contains a restaurant, bookshop, swimwear store, souvenir store, and rooms for other water activities.
It is commonly used in lieu of boric acid and can be used to help control and possibly eliminate bed bugs, house dust mite, cockroach, ant, and flea infestations.
See also Dust bunny Broom Stairs Stair tread Vacuum cleaner Victorian decorative arts == References ==
References External links and references On installation of cantilever stairs International codes, relating to their construction Statistics on cantilever stairs What are floating stairs?
Etymology The name ha-ha is of French origin, and was first used in print in Dezallier d'Argenville's 1709 book The Theory and Practice of Gardening, in which he explains that the name derives from the exclamation of surprise that viewers would make on recognising the optical illusion.
Pianos tend to respond to velocity (how quickly a key is struck), whereas organs tend to respond to displacement (whether or not a key is pressed down).
A heavy bomb attack on Schönbrunn Palace in February 1945 destroyed most of the glazing of the Palmenhaus.
The soldiers' unpaid wages were being supplanted by supplies and food produced in the missions which put further pressure on the neophyte indigenous labor force.
One way to make drains safer is to install shut-off valves and dome-shape drains that are less likely to create a suction effect with the human body, as required in the United States by the 2007 Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act.
Early American buzzers were constructed of wood, bone, or stone, and date from at least the Fourche Maline Culture, c.
A six-storey tower with four water slides: The Wall, Blackout, Gold Rush, and The Wedgie, opened in December 2019; at the same time the entire park rebranded to its current name.
This use explains why the first single flight is often wider than the following two divided flights, although narrowing flights are also an architectural trick to lengthen perspective in order to increase the impression of size.
After the opening, work began on the selection and testing of flower-decorative and wood-shrub plants.
The Strudlhofstiege in Vienna, an Art Nouveau style perron, is well known because it forms the title of the 1951 novel The Strudlhof Steps by Heimito von Doderer.
For barbecue in the United States, each Southern locale has its own variety of barbecue, particularly sauces.
A major Maze Art Exhibition on Adrian Fisher's work was held at the Norton Museum of Art, West Palm Beach, Florida, from January to March 1997; it included the creation of full-size permanent mazes in the surrounding landscape, and the publication "Your Land is His Canvas".
The steps were originally around 25 m (82 ft) away from their current location; they were relocated at some point.
The consensus is that the figures beside Rizal—a mother rearing her child and two young boys reading—signify family and education.
It is known popularly as Bul-bulaiyan (a Labyrinth or Maze), for a visitor often loses his way amidst the several passages in the thickness of its walls.
They are fuel-efficient, using a minimum of charcoal, and may be safer for children due to the lack of hot spots.
Seen from the perspective of architecture theory borrowing scenery was seen as a fixed three-dimensional plasticity, whence shakkei is usually translated as "borrowed" scenery.
No actual adhesive or retaining method is used other than the weight of the paver itself except edging.
When the municipality decided to build a pool, called a "piscina" in the Italian language, they chose to name it after Felice Scandone in part due to his fostering of sports culture in the city.
In 2024, the park switched to seasonal operations; previously the dry attractions were open all year-round.
Webster Woods, a large protected area near Boston, experienced an increase in desire path length by 36% following COVID-19.
In 2007, the project received the Prix Evenir, the Swiss petroleum industry's CHF 50,000 award for sustainable development.
Grilltables and chimneys are made in different shapes and the materials used range from granite stone to stainless steel.
The wilderness was planted close, but not too close, to the main house, often beyond the parterres, or at an oblique angle to the garden front; garden critics often complained they were too close or too far.
A traditional stair carpet was characterized by not covering the full width of the stair but leaving the underlying wood−stone−tile of the tread and risers open to view on the sides.
History Initial planning and proposals for the Qplex began in 2007; at this time, the facility was to have an ice rink as well as a swimming pool.
The tower, which they call Torre de Cabras, was inspired by the Fairview winery and also built using the winery's plans.
It has turned out to be suitable in mitigation of the sinking of water tables in agricultural areas of the MENA region and beyond.
Many are designed to double as wood-fired ovens that allow homeowners to create meals such as pizzas and casseroles.
The Art Journal Illustrated Catalogue of the Great Exhibition wrote in 1851 that the fountain was "perhaps the most striking object in the exhibition; the lightness and beauty, as well as the perfect novelty of the design, have rendered it the theme of admiration with all visitors.
In a study of swimming pools in Alexandria, Egypt, the team studied 10 pools, both indoor and outdoor, over two months during the summer.
History of the house The buildings are situated at a high point in the local landscape, 400 yards (370 m) south of the River Chess, which forms the boundary between Buckinghamshire and Hertfordshire.
At one end, facing the Seine, were twenty powerful water cannon, able to project a jet of water fifty meters.
Before the introduction of definitive maps of public paths in the early 1950s, the public did not know where paths were, and the Open Spaces Society helped the successful campaign for paths to be shown on Ordnance Survey maps.
When used in small enclosures, it is easily deformed by livestock, resulting in high ongoing maintenance costs.
Nude swimming is a well-established tradition at some more remote swimming holes and is an attraction for many natural swimming fans, but in many parts of the world remains an illegal activity.
This has resulted in the location being referred to as HaKotel HaMasorti ("Masorti Wall" or "Traditional Wall", meaning traditional Jewish observance not as stringent as Orthodoxy—as opposed to the Kotel HaMaaravi ("Western Wall"), which is Orthodox).
People lighting their own snow lanterns is one of Sweden's, Finland's and Norway's Christmas traditions.
In addition to providing workshops at the museum that teach hands-on and inquiry-based teaching methods, it provides coaches and support for novice teachers.
Lighting components There are many different types of landscape lighting systems, controls and switching, wiring connections, fixture types, functions-purposes-styles, and light sources.
Commemoration Gates (1934) The Commemoration Gates are centred on the West Street boundary, marking the formal entrance to the park.
Though often said by garden writers at the time to be intended for meditation and reading, the wilderness was much used for walking, and often flirtation.
Two roof sections meet at a ridge in the middle, providing more headroom in the centre than at the sides.
Adjacent to these ponds, a granular filter PO4 adsorption unit was installed, running along the gabion walls of the pool, thus allowing the water to latently circulate from one end to the other.
There Plate 55, "Elevation of a Chinese Gazebo", shows "a Chinese Tower or Gazebo, situated on a Rock, and raised to a considerable Height, and a Gallery round it to render the Prospect more complete." George Washington had a small eight-sided garden structure at Mount Vernon.
Peat also has a very slow accumulation rate, as little as 1mm per year, so they take a long time to regenerate.
Trellis was used to support shrubs in espalier, also to separate roads from thickets and diverse sections of vegetable gardens.
The same is used in jest in the 1989 film Christmas Vacation, in which Clark Griswold, in an emotional meltdown, cuts a loose finial off a newel post with a chainsaw.
In English Baroque gardens, as well as garden rooms in wildernesses, there was a fashion for sheltered flower gardens in a style that was believed (rightly or wrongly) to be Dutch.
The British, allied with the Portuguese of Goa and Daman, Nizam Ali Khan, 2nd Nizam of Hyderabad, and Marathas, achieved a decisive victory against Tipu Sultan.
Petersburg, Russia, was founded by Peter I in 1714 as a herb garden in order to grow medicinal plants and re-established as a botanical institution under the name Imperial Botanical Garden in 1823, with assistance from John Goldie.
Starting at a dead end, the path is filled until it reaches an intersection with three or more paths connecting to it.
Nowadays Fjärilshuset is a national museum with the buildings being held privately and the land leased by Fjarilshuset Haga Tradgard AB.
Hence, while the claim has been contested, some credit Baehr and Maresch with creating the first garden gnomes.(German: Gartenzwerge).
An early use of "wilderness" for a bosquet is the description by surveyors of that made for Queen Henrietta Maria at Wimbledon House in the 1640s.
This protects the underlying surface from developing damage or staining due to exposure to excess water, soil, and drips from the potplant.
In fluid amplifiers, a fluid power stream, after leaving a nozzle, is switched selectively to one or more of a plurality of outlet passages.
Types By fuel type Wood Gas By construction type Stone See also Firepit Fireplace Wood-fired oven Masonry oven Chimenea Brazier == References ==
Synthetic web or rope with thin steel wires interwoven to carry the electrical charge has become popular in recent years, particularly where additional visibility is desired.
The term may sometimes be used for a herb garden specializing in herbs that are consumed as tea, such as chamomile, bee balm, peppermint, lemon balm, and lavender.
Its name, "three lights lantern", is due to its windows, shaped like the sun and the moon in the front and rear, and like a star at the ends.
The term "kālua pork" has been used by Hawaiian cook Sam Choy to describe pork shoulder butt which is rubbed with sea salt, wrapped in ti leaves, and slowly cooked in an oven using liquid mesquite smoke rather than an imu.
In all its simplicity there is a lot of higher chemistry going on between the bio film and the water column.
A corridor of oak trees has been planted at this place by each Prime Minister of Australia since Federation or a close family member.
A stair carpet is a linear carpet or rug, that runs up/down on interior staircases usually, and occasionally on exterior stairways.
Chambord was altered considerably during the 28 years of its construction, during which it was overseen on-site by Pierre Neveu.
Subsequently, a AUD$70 million water park expansion to be built over ten years was announced in April 2013; in addition, new food and beverage outlets, facilities and dry attractions such as new mazes and a mini-golf course would also be added to the park.
Unlike hanging friendship balls or witch balls that have a loop, gazing balls come in a variety, with some having a stem so they can securely sit in a stand, while others are more uniform in shape and can sit on grass.
It has been certified with the global LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) which is fully compliant with the Dubai Municipality green building regulations and specifications.
A typical wooden window box lasts 3–5 years before showing deterioration, though with painting and maintenance can last 10–15 years.
This includes Pittsburgh (see Steps of Pittsburgh), Cincinnati (see Steps of Cincinnati), Portland, Oregon, Seattle, and San Francisco in the United States, as well as Hong Kong, and Rome.
The building was used by Southwark London Borough Council as offices until 2005, when Tibetan Buddhist organisation Kagyu Samye Dzong London obtained a five-year lease to use the building as a temporary home while their new Bermondsey location was being renovated.
The term "cold greenhouse" comes from the original building's lack of mechanical heating; instead, wooden slats regulate sunlight and protect the plants from excessively hot or cold temperatures.
Bike sheds range from little more than a supported roof to more complex structures with walls and locking doors or gates.
The establishment of the Ellicott Line helped resolve boundary disputes between Virginia and Pennsylvania, clarifying territorial claims in the Ohio River region and contributing to the eventual shape of West Virginia's northern panhandle.
The main types of shed construction are metal sheathing over a metal frame, plastic sheathing and frame, all-wood construction (the roof may be asphalt shingled or sheathed in tin), and vinyl-sided sheds built over a wooden frame.
Where they pass over busy roads or railways, they may also include a fence or other such barrier to prevent pedestrians from jumping, or throwing projectiles onto the traffic below.
A chimenea (UK English) or chiminea (US English) ( CHIM-in-AY-ə; from Spanish chimenea [tʃimeˈnea], in turn derived from French cheminée, "chimney") is a freestanding front-loading fireplace or oven with a bulbous body and usually a vertical smoke vent or chimney.
This unit only quantifies the visible radiation, and excludes invisible infrared and ultraviolet light.
The structure includes an observation tower and a dining room and is characterized by romantic and neogothic style elements.
They are made from paraffin in a metal cup with a one cm (0.39 in)-thick wick, which heats up to 1,000 °C (1,830 °F).
It is usually part of an upper floor, with a balustrade only at the front, resembling a small loggia.
Suggestions for resolving the conflicts include providing a single handrail down the middle of the stairs with gutters at the outside edges, or placing handrails at both edges and placing the gutter in the middle.
Design Reflecting pools are often designed with the outer basin floor at the rim slightly deeper than the central area to suppress wave formation.
The facility has been described as the "crown jewel" of the town, and was built at a cost of $24.5 million.
"Open well" helical or circular stairs designed by architects often do not have a central pole, but there usually is a handrail at both sides of the treads.
The building continued to be expanded whenever materials and resources were available into the next decade.
Typically, a stair carpet will become more hard-worn, since it gets a more forceful and 'sliding sole' footfall than flat floor carpets in rooms and hallways.
It split from MIT when the SSL was awarded a grant from NASA to build a dedicated neutral buoyancy pool.
La Concha Acústica is an open-air auditorium oftentimes used as a music venue, including presentations by the Ponce Municipal Band.
Interested but not yet seeing the opportunities, he left the seal intact for about four years, noting that the grass actually bloomed once.
Without nearby bare soil, or natural drainage channels, swales or culverts, hardscape with an impervious surface requires artificial methods of drainage or surface runoff to carry off the water that would normally be absorbed into the ground as groundwater and prevent premature wear to itself.
Subsequently, a number of individuals carried out copycat hijackings against Boeing 727s and safely parachuted to the ground, although all were apprehended by the authorities.
At the turn of 19th century, alongside the square were constructed representative tenements, including Palace of the Heads, Palace of the Pomeranian Estates Assembly, and the Grey Castle.
In stairs having straight flights, it is the principal post at the foot of the staircase, but the term can also be used for the intermediate posts on landings and at the top of a staircase.
It was situated on the foreshore of the Swan River near Sunset Heritage Precinct at the foot of the escarpment.
Standard bridge The post and plank version has an advantage when employed as a crossing of a muddy bottom or marsh: It is structurally stable, where a straight bridge might tend to tip due to the posts moving in the soft mud.
Many local governments also do not help this scenario because they have enacted “weed laws” that restrict grass growth over a certain number of inches.
There is also a walled garden, an aviary, a loggia and a 90-metre (300 ft) long pergola, covered with roses and wisteria.
In the modern day an orangery could refer to either a conservatory or greenhouse built to house fruit trees, or a conservatory or greenhouse meant for another purpose.
It is 42.15 metres (138 ft) deep, which at the time of opening made it the deepest pool in the world.
Single-zone models are typically a fiberglass pressure-driven exercise pool that has swim jets at one end, and one or more spa seats fitted with massage jets at the other.
Also well known are the Spanish Steps in Rome, that lead from the Piazza di Spagna to the church of Santa Trinità dei Monti.
This remnant was first identified in 1838 by Biblical scholar Edward Robinson and now bears his name.
Within its base were found four small hollow spaces, possibly for shops opening onto the Herodian–era Tyropoeon street that passes beneath the arch.
In October 2007, the works were completed, and a tram line called metrocentro came into operation to block access to the city center.
In the late 19th and early 20th century, the monument turned into a centre of the urban planning strategy for this part of Sofia.
Characteristics Jocko The earlier "Jocko" design usually depicts the right arm raised, and was styled as a racist caricature of a young black boy, often with exaggerated features, such as big eyes with the whites painted in; large lips painted red; a large, flat nose and curly hair.
Rills are fairly easily visible when first incised, so they are often the first indication of an ongoing erosion problem.
It starts from the square known as Puerta de Jerez and reaches the Plaza Nueva, considered the center of the city and where the historic building of the Seville City Council is located.
In 1999 a study by the United States Geological Survey found that 99% of urban water streams contained pesticides.
Respiratory risks of indoor swimming pools can include coughing, wheezing, aggravated asthma, and airway hyper-responsiveness (spasms of the bronchial tubes in the lungs causing coughing and chest tightness).
Levels found in recreational waters Researchers have studied the quantity of bacteria in recreational waters.
Although its primary purpose is structural, newels have long been adorned with decorative trim and designed in different architectural styles.
After the Mediterranean Games, the venue went unused for a number of years before re-opening in 1983.
In the late 15th century, the buried rooms of Nero’s Domus Aurea on the Palatine Hill were rediscovered.
In 1969, the 100 Years of the Installation of the Ornamental Pool were commemorated, the mayor at that time, Rómulo Baluarte, had a set of red and green flashing lights installed on the Pool.
Use in industry The chemicals responsible for the smell of freshly cut grass are used as aroma compounds by the perfume industry.
Notable cases United States Media In The Final Destination (the fourth instalment of the series), one of the characters, Hunt Wynorski, drops a penny down a public pool drain that got turned on when he accidentally threw a kid's water gun on the lever.
The pool was eventually closed in 1953, and then filled in around the time of the construction of the Dome (which would become the Tawarri Reception Centre) adjacent to Dalkeith Hot Pool.
Soils are minimally used as growing media because they compact and lose pore space after repeated watering and can be too heavy for growing potted plants.
In October, the council confirmed they were planning a redevelopment of the site and could not rule out demolition.
On the Boat Deck level was an upright piano allowing the ship's orchestra to hold impromptu concerts in the stairwell.
The food is usually wrapped in several layers of aluminum foil and secured onto the engine block or other hot parts of the engine.
The shape of this shortest path - particularly if emphasized by coloring in the grid squares visited - then reveals a hidden picture.
These vine-like palms, belonging to the subfamily Calamoideae, were harvested for their pliable yet sturdy stems, which were then tightly woven into interlocking panels to form various furniture pieces.
The original design of the château is attributed to the Tuscan architect Domenico da Cortona; Leonardo da Vinci may have also influenced the design.
Dust corners are triangle-shaped pieces, usually made of brass or nickel, that are used to prevent dust from accumulating in corners.
Rills created by erosion Rills are narrow and shallow channels which are eroded into unprotected soil by hillslope runoff.
In the last two faces of the edifice, the plaques lists the rank, name and the regiment of the European officers who were martyred in the siege.
Theme The theme of the fountain is referencing the whaling tradition, and three bronze whale sculptures are spouting water from their blowholes at the top of the structure.
Until 2013, it crossed the Munich-Herrsching railway line via a level crossing that was controlled from the München-Freiham station.
For example, in the city of Rome, there are sculptures that depict the supernatural powers and gods of Rome, and they were collected by scholars such as Angelo Colocci.
The Obelisk at Slottsbacken is an obelisk monument adjacent to the Royal Palace on Slottsbacken in Old Town, Stockholm, Sweden and is considered to be the very centre point of the Swedish capital city.
The importance of these cellars is demonstrated in their number; for example, there are 40 grotti in Maggia, no fewer in Moghegno, and about 70 in Cevio behind Case Franzoni.
The name Ashgabat literally means "city of love or city of devotion." Turkmenistan is found in the Central Asia.
A Grillkota (literally grill goahti) is a small structure with seating centred around an open wood or charcoal-fired grill, originating among Sámi reindeer herders in Scandinavia.
A garden ornament or lawn ornament is a non-plant item used for garden, landscape, and park enhancement and decoration.
Bermudan moon gates are slightly different from the original Chinese designs, as they are often left freestanding or attached to a low wall.
Clay pots are permeable for water and therefore water from inside the pot soil can evaporate through the walls out of the pot.
The study concluded that stair-climbing met the minimum requirements for cardiorespiratory benefits, and considered stair-climbing suitable for promotion of physical activity.
Balconies have been an important aspect of theatre architecture for centuries, inspired by ancient Roman and Greek civilisations, who included raised seating designs.
This drawing may be variously described as an "ambiguous figure", "reversible figure" or "bistable figure".
Multiple studies have shown the potential correlation between chronic exposure to DBPs and respiratory symptoms among competitive swimmers but more research is needed on the effects of these DBPs on recreational swimmers.
Unlike woodwind instruments in which there is one mouthpiece at the entrance to the flute chamber, hydraulophones have mouthpieces at every exit port from the chamber.
Gongshi (Chinese: 供石), also known as scholar's rocks or viewing stones, are naturally occurring or shaped rocks which are traditionally appreciated by Chinese scholars.
'wolf jump'), also known as a sunk fence, blind fence, ditch and fence, deer wall, or foss, is a recessed landscape design element that creates a vertical barrier (particularly on one side) while preserving an uninterrupted view of the landscape beyond from the other side.
In order to celebrate the opening, it held the Irving Oil Challenge Cup, which was well-received aside from the overflow of parking at the time.
Originally, the floor was covered with Minton encaustic tiles (given to the Sutherlands by the factory), but Nancy Astor had them removed in 1906 and the present flagstones laid.
Origins of the turf maze The earliest known use of the classical labyrinth pattern in the British Isles is on the Hollywood Stone, an incised granite boulder from County Wicklow, Ireland, dating from c.
The City of Vancouver has stated the Kitsilano pool is at the end of its service life, and beginning in June 2025 they are seeking public input on the future of the pool.
The Moskaubad (English: Moscow Baths) is a public swimming pool in the Wüste district of Osnabrück, Germany.
As a result, Nautilus sold the Stairmaster brand to Core Health and Fitness in 2009, as its stock reached its lowest point.
He was identified as the fat officer who had fired hunting weapons at the attackers, and his body was found in a choked tunnel-like passage near the Water Gate.
Dust corners are most commonly found in older homes, but are still available for purchase in the 21st century.
Bathtub Madonna: a statue of Mary the mother of Jesus is placed in a bathtub half buried under the ground.
The dome was fringed with a delicately molded plaster entablature and rested on the deck housing surrounding the stairwell.
A lens will form an image of a sine wave grating that is still sinusoidal, but with some reduction in its contrast depending on the spatial frequency and possibly some change in phase.
For humans, the smell of freshly cut grass is connected through olfactory memory to past experiences involving the odour and may evoke nostalgia, eliciting associations with spring or summer.
Wooden garden furniture can suffer through exposure to the elements and therefore needs to be periodically treated.
The size of the stone can also be quite varied: scholars' rocks can weigh hundreds of pounds or less than one pound.
Charles aims to achieve net-zero emissions from the buildings of the Royal household before the British government's target date of 2050.
Popular logic mazes include tilt mazes and other novel designs which usually increase the complexity of the maze, sometimes to the point that the maze has to be designed by a program to eliminate multiple paths.
It contains 100 rooms and until 2020 was recognized for having the world's deepest pool, the Y-40, which put it in the Guinness World Records.
Although Luxembourgers left under German occupation at home could do little to aid the Allies, those overseas, outside Germany's control, could volunteer to serve against Germany.
The main avenue was decorated with modernist light installation and sculptures of metal boxes, as well as small and shallow water canals.
At Vallgraven, it connects to the narrower street Östra Hamngatan (formerly a canal), and the Avenue takes its full name after Kungsporten, the "King's Gate", which was located at the point in the fortifications where Östra Hamngatan ends (see Kungsportsplatsen).
Hot-stone cooking, where food is placed on a heated stone next to or even in the fire, or where fire-heated stones are dropped into a pot are other methods.
Role of Unions: While union membership has declined in recent decades, unions still play a crucial role in the collective bargaining process, representing workers in negotiations with employers.
She received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Radcliffe College of Harvard University in 1987 and a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School in 1992.
The report shocked public opinion and calls were made to imprison, flog and pillory recalcitrant factory owners.
The whole act, except sections 64(1)–(3), 72, 73, 80(3)–(5), 80(13) and 81(14), and the short title in section 115, was repealed by section 133 of, and the seventh schedule to, the National Health Insurance Act 1924 (14 & 15 Geo.
In committee, Lord Ashley moved an amendment to the bill's clause 2, which defined the terms used in subsequent (substantive) clauses; his amendment changed the definition of 'night' to 6 p.m.
Anonymous reporting mechanisms, as mentioned previously, help foster a climate whereby employees are more likely to report or seek guidance regarding potential or actual wrongdoing without fear of retaliation.
This constitutional provision was implemented by the Labor Court Act, which entered into force on October 1, 1953, and established the Federal Labor Court.
Graham amended the educational clauses, but this only triggered a fresh round of indignation meetings and a fresh round of petitions (11,839 petitions and 1,920,574 signatures).
Esping-Andersen traces in this persistency the origins of the chronically high Italian unemployment rates.
In June 2022, the Office of the Chief Justice warned the public that somebody impersonating Mabindla-Boqwana had contacted several people and entities to request private and sensitive information.
Following its creation in 2000 the Global Compact initially focused on support for Ten Principles and the Millennium Development Goals.
Unpaid care and domestic work sustain households and contribute to the reproduction of the labor force across generations.
The Employee Relations Law Journal is a legal journal which publishes articles in the field of labor and employment law.
Romme also worked as an associate professor of labour law at Tilburg University from 1 January 1933 until 1 January 1935 and as a distinguished professor of Labour law, administrative law and constitutional law and at Tilburg University from 1 January 1935 until 24 June 1937.
Part III: Wages, Special Clothing and Records The general minimum increased from $17.40 per hour to $17.85 per hour on June 1, 2025.
The issue to be decided was whether employees of a nationalised industry (in this case British Gas plc) could rely upon the Equal Treatment Directive when making claims in the English courts.
See also Parental leave Garden leave Leisure Paid Educational Leave Convention, 1974 Sabbatical Career break References External links Full Text of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 - FMLA - 29 U.S.
As of April 2024, there were 23,571 pending cases with the labour courts and the Labour Appellate Tribunal.
Subsequent developments The whole act so far as it related to collieries were repealed by section 126 of, and the fourth schedule to, the Coal Mines Act 1911 (1 & 2 Geo.
Finance Both the contributory and non-contributory benefits are financed through a 1.55% contribution by employees and 5,5% by employers on employees salaries up to 3262 euros per month Unemployment Benefits and the Disabled There are many people with disabilities in Spain.
Congress passed China’s Employment Contracts Act in 2007 to provide a specific mass layoff procedure aimed at ensuring transparency, consultation, and regulatory oversight before any mass layoffs proceed.
The centre's mandate include reduction in cost and delays in judicial delivery through efficient, fast and equitable settlement of disputes.
The inspectors reported that magistrates habitually did so, and to an extent which defeated the law; it was more profitable to break the law and pay the occasional fine than to comply with the act.
Edward Sadlowski (September 10, 1938 – June 10, 2018) was an American labor activist associated with Steelworkers Fight Back, a rank-and-file movement against corruption in the international United Steelworkers of America union.
Pakistan According to Section 27 of the Contract Act, 1872, any agreement that restrains a person from exercising a lawful profession, trade or business is void.
Article 16 makes clear that member states may have more favourable provisions and may not regress in standards.
Its promulgation enraged the sans-culottes, who called for an end to the National Constituent Assembly, which nonetheless continued through the second phase of the Revolution.
The authors of the Marjolin Report state: "...the means of redressing imbalances between Community countries should be considerably reinforced….
No progress had been made with the government bill when the death of King William, and the consequent dissolution of parliament, brought the session to an end.
Political career In the late 1960s, Sauquillo joined the clandestine union Acción Sindical de Trabajadores (AST), one of the groups that would give rise, in 1969, to the Workers' Revolutionary Organization (ORT), and would later assume Maoist ideology.
United Kingdom The UK's main piece of legislation falls under the Employment Agencies Act 1973, which required licensing until 1994.
This explains the fact that the Articles 117 and 118 of the European Economic Community treaty are soft in nature, while in contrast the hard Articles 119 and 120 of the EEC treaty have a limited scope.
Night working was forbidden for anyone under 21 and if a mill had been working at night the onus of proof was on the millowner (to show nobody under-age had been employed).
Since 2000, the board has ruled for whistleblowers just three times in 56 cases decided on their merits, according to a Government Accountability Project (GAP) analysis.
Goldstein Memorial Prize in Labor Law and served as an editor of the University of Pennsylvania Law Review.
History of labor law in the United States refers to the development of United States labor law, or legal relations between workers, their employers and trade unions in the United States of America.
Around a hundred employment lawyers signed a petition against it, referring to her lack of experience, notwithstanding the support of the APM.
"Law, Lawyers and Labor: The United Farm Workers’ Legal Strategy in the 1960s and 1970s and the Role of Law in Union Organizing Today." Pennsylvania Journal of Labor & Employment Law.
The anti-gag statute is a little-known legal boundary in the long struggle in the United States between Executive Branch secrecy and the United States Congress and the public's right to know.
After transitioning to law, he clerked for Judge Leonard Garth of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit from 1989 to 1990 and then worked as an associate at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett in New York City.
Recent Asian Regional Congresses were hosted in Manilla and Taipai, and recent European Regional Congresses were held in Stockholm, Bologna, Sevilla (2011) and Dublin (2014).
Under the act, regulations and rules came into force on 2 December 1802 and applied to all textile mills and factories employing three or more apprentices or twenty employees.
Since the cantons in the arrangement of their administrative law are largely autonomous, all cantons have their own regulations for public employment.
ISBN 978-84-460-4850-3 2020: Desafío, el virus no es el único peligro, Ediciones Akal ISBN 978-84-460-4975-3 2020: El pueblo gitano contra el sistema mundo.
For over-25 year old employees, the wage began at £7.20 per hour in April 2016 and was projected to rise to at least £9 per hour by April 2020.
However, there are specific exemptions for people working in non-hazardous occupations such as the entertainment industry.
The Office of Labor-Management Standards, part of the United States Department of Labor, is required to collect all collective bargaining agreements covering 1,000 or more workers, excluding those involving railroads and airlines.
The NES have applied to employees since 1 January 2010, having replaced the previous five entitlement standard (called the Australian Fair Pay and Conditions Standard) under the WorkChoices legislation.
Pangilinan welcomed proposals from the Department of Agriculture to increase rice import tariffs and urged that tariff collections must reach and directly benefit farmers, warning that the law had not delivered intended support.
After one year of uninterrupted membership to an unemployment fund, and six months of half-time work, a worker is entitled to receive an earnings-related daily allowance of up to 80% of his or her regular income (with a maximum of 680 SEK per day) for the first 200 days.
Judgement themselves are to be done by consensus, or a majority vote where consensus cannot be found and all judgements are to be communicated in writing to complainant and the Institution involved, with the reasons for the judgement clearly outlined.
These dress codes may also contain specifications related to the wearing of cosmetics and heels and the styling of hair.
An undue hardship is an American and Canadian legal term referring to special or specified circumstances that partially or fully exempt a person or organization from performance of a legal obligation so as to avoid an unreasonable or disproportionate burden or obstacle.
Resignation of Integrity Commissioner In October 2010 the head of OPSIC, Public Sector Integrity Commissioner Christiane Ouimet, unexpectedly resigned less than halfway through her seven-year term, following media reports that she was under investigation by Canada's Auditor General.
Section 17 made requirements for the safeguarding of machinery but was repealed and superseded by the Provision and Use of Work Equipment Regulations 1992 between 1 January 1993 and 1 January 1997.
Venezuelan labour law is covered by the Ley Orgánica del Trabajo, los Trabajadores y las Trabajadoras (2012), and underpinned by parts of the Constitution of Venezuela which cover labour rights.
This decision ultimately became an important precedent that it is illegal to discharge an employee due to expressing milk or lactation.
Essential minimum services and abusive minimum services There may be disagreements about what is considered an essential service and what is not.
The term is also applied to special arrangements between private corporations and government entities, whereby the corporation and sometimes a government official reap the benefits, rather than the public.
Today, the primary mission of OSC is to safeguard the merit system by protecting federal employees and applicants from prohibited personnel practices, especially reprisal for whistleblowing.
History The then Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announced, at the end of his budget speech on 8 July 2015, a new national minimum wage rate for people over the age of 25, which he termed the "National Living Wage".
Although many anti-sweatshop campaigners would like for globalization to be reversed and factories to close, citizens of these developed countries do not have many options for alternative work.
It has failed to ratify the two basic onventions of the International Labour Organization on freedom of association and collective bargaining, and on the abolition of child labour.
The framework also matches empirical findings on the shares of average earnings losses following displacement that are due to reduced employment and lower wages." Weinstein, Bruce, "Downsizing 101", BusinessWeek magazine, September 12, 2008.
Contemporary examples In a report released on November 26, 2011, a Palm Beach County organization, People Engaged in Active Community Efforts (PEACE), sent postcards to Macy's and Bealls executives as a form of protest.
Pompeyo Benito Guloy and Jimmy Bulosan Ramil, both members of Local 37 and of the Tulisan gang, were found guilty of first degree murder and sentenced to life in prison.
A French law passed in the National Assembly on 17 February 2015 and effective from the end of 2015 imposed statutory minimum wage regulations on foreign truck drivers plying international routes to and from France and undertaking cabotage in the country.
In this model, seven harassing behaviors were classified into three levels of severity: less severe, moderately severe, and most severe.
Whistle-blowing Policy in Nigeria is an anti-corruption programme that encourages people to voluntarily disclose information about fraud, bribery, looted government funds, financial misconduct, government assets, and any other form of corruption or theft to the Nigeria's Federal Ministry of Finance.
Since 1948, he headed the Permanent Commission for Open Trials on the Most Important Cases of former servicemen of the German army and German punitive bodies, exposed of atrocities against Soviet citizens in the temporarily occupied territory of the Soviet Union.
The foreign country where someone seeks to obtain a work permit for is also known as the "country of work", as opposed to the "country of origin" where someone holds citizenship or nationality.
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 159 of, and the fourth schedule to, the Factories Act 1937 (1 Edw.
Career and further education Summers' brother had enlisted in the United States Army at the beginning of World War II.
In the United States, commercial law is the province of both the United States Congress, under its power to regulate interstate commerce, and the states, under their police power.
There is a prohibition on any employer treating an employee as if the person is not an employee under the Act.
8) amended the 1998 act to allow employees to claim back payments from a previous employer of an employee in cases where the previous employer failed to pay them the minimum wage.
Many labor leaders, including the leadership of the AFL–CIO, supported the legislation, including testifying in support at congressional hearings.
The Labour Court (Dutch: Arbeidsrechtbank, French: Tribunal du travail, German: Arbeitsgericht) in Belgium is a court which deals in first instance with disputes between employers and employees and disputes regarding social security.
Even though domestic work is the fastest-growing sector of women and girls' employment in urban India, the country lacks a separate law for domestic workers' safety and social security.
The terms of a 2008 plea bargain to settle criminal charges against financier Jeffrey Epstein have been called a sweetheart deal by many commentators.
Collective contracts (established by article 4) were negotiated following the issuing of the Charter of Labour, but with the effect of a decrease in wages.
The Highlands and Islands Medical Service was established in the crofting counties on a non-contributory basis in 1913.
In summer 2015, Blair's law firm accepted a large fee to advise the Maldives government as it faced a challenge from former Maldivian president Mohamed Nasheed over his imprisonment for "terrorism".
On November 5, the House agreed to the Senate's amendment by a vote of 403–12, sending the bill to President Barack Obama's desk.
In 2018, legislative battles over it and the largely public union organizations it has jurisdiction over were taking place.
The difference between the two classifications depends on the permanency of the employment, opportunity for profit and loss, the worker's level of self-employment along with their degree of control.
For example, countries with more permissive labor laws may see higher rates of unionization and collective bargaining coverage.
The Government of Canada introduced multiple temporary social security and financial aid programs in response to the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in Canada.
The Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth) is an act of the Parliament of Australia, passed by the Rudd government to reform the industrial relations system of Australia.
Subsequently, Constitutional Amendment number 19 relaxed this requirement by establishing the possibility of adopting the statutory regime or Hired Under Employment Laws, but was reinstated after the foregoing assessment of ADIn 2135.
This presumption may be rebutted when the agreement is in writing and contains an explicit provision asserting that it should be legally enforceable.
The issue was first raised by Robert Michels in his Political Parties and termed the Iron law of oligarchy: all forms of organization, regardless of how democratic or autocratic they may be at the start, will eventually and inevitably develop into oligarchies.
The 8th Circuit Court of Appeals stayed the District Court's ruling, and the lockout continued pending a final determination in the appellate court.
He received a Bachelor of Civil Law degree in 1978 and a Bachelor of Law degree in 1979 from McGill University.
Former non-sovereign state members The ILO constitution indicates that members must be states (initially, although not exclusively, members of the League of Nations or, after 1945, members of the United Nations), which has been interpreted to imply those entities with state sovereignty.
15) again set a twelve-hour day, its main provisions being: Children 9–13 years could work for 9 hours a day with a lunch break.
If no cause exists yet the employer dismisses without providing lawful notice, then the dismissal is a wrongful dismissal.
He was replaced in 2006 and later was appointed head of McGill University's government relations and inter-institutional affairs office, effective January 3, 2007.
See also German labour law Notes References Hans Jürgen Teuteberg, Geschichte der Industriellen Mitbestimmung (1961)
Health (general provisions) Sections 1 to 7 define general broad requirements for healthy factory working conditions: Cleanliness; Overcrowding; Temperature; Ventilation; Lighting; Drainage of floors; and Sanitary conveniences.
Contents The Act provides for fixing wage rate (time, piece, guaranteed time, overtime) for any industry .
This crucial role in collective bargaining is why the right to strike is constitutionally protected by s.
During this assessment, states enjoy a margin of appreciation of varied scope, depending on the specific circumstances.
His political opponents mocked the thought of Lord John Russell turning his undoubted talents to the production of a reading primer, and it was soon announced that once the bill went into committee it would be amended to restore the 1833 education clauses.
Sadler, as chairman of the committee, reported the minutes of evidence on 8 August 1832, when they were ordered to be printed.
In the general election, Green finished well ahead of his three opponents, including Communist Party leader William Ross.
More recent review and analysis of the Act In 2017 the Standing Committee on Government Operations and Estimates (known as OGGO) was asked by the government to conduct a review of the Act.
The formula ensures that any individual working 40 hours per week (be it from one or more jobs) will be able to afford basic food, clothing, shelter (an efficiency apartment), and public transportation, wherever that work is done throughout the United States.
In order to become eligible for unemployment benefits, one must become part of one of the twenty four private and state approved Insurance funds; these funds are commonly known in Denmark as A-kasser's or A-kasse.
The draft Bill was reviewed and critiqued with amendments, and the amended bill resubmitted to the government.
There was no requirement on local authorities for enforcement (or penalties for non-enforcement) of legislation for workshops.
Judgments of the Labour Court can be appealed to the Labour Appeal Court or the Supreme Court of Appeals which in turn can be appealed to the Constitutional Court of South Africa.
The second reading of Poulett Thomson's Bill was opposed by Ashley, who denounced the bill as a feeler towards total repeal of protection for factory children.
According to the Federal Statistical Office of Germany, in 2021, the average number of leave days taken was 32.2 days.
Whether respondents did not want to label their experiences as rape or if they feared that their perpetrator was going to be punished the use of language was leading to inaccurate results.
The determination of minimum services in crucial services is sometimes a limitation of the right to strike, which matches the corresponding governmental authority in each State.
She remained minister in charge of HRDC until Paul Martin became Prime Minister on December 12, 2003.
– after allowing 90 minutes for meal breaks only ten-and-a-half hours could be worked; this passed by nine votes.
The following sections were repealed in part and superseded by the Pressure Systems and Transportable Gas Containers Regulations 1989 on 1 July 1994: 32 Steam boilers – attachments and construction; and steam boilers – maintenance, examination and use.
See also European labour law Trade unions in Turkey Demir and Baykara v Turkey (2008) Yazar, Karatas, Aksoy and Hep v Turkey (2003) 36 EHRR 59 == References ==
Its South Texas Project, led by Harrington, became the Texas Civil Rights Project in September 1990.
Francis Pancratius "Kiko" Nepomuceno Pangilinan ([paŋɪˈlinan]; born August 24, 1963) is a Filipino lawyer, and politician who has served as a senator of the Philippines since 2025.
Background The act was the final consolidation of a line of legislation under Factory Acts that began in 1802.
That came to nothing, and on September 3, 1968, Green announced he would seek the party's leadership himself.
However, these workers were required to prove that they also lost at least 50% of their revenue because of these measures.
Background No national minimum wage existed prior to 1998, although there were a variety of systems of wage controls focused on specific industries under the Trade Boards Act 1909.
The policy was launched on December 21, 2016 by Nigeria's Federal Government and facilitated through the Federal Ministry of Finance.
The report explained that exchange rates between countries reflect economic productivity and, thereby, offset the advantages of lower wages in other States.
The doctrine of International Shoe is broad, but the Court has recognized that it has limits, nevertheless.
Articles 13 to 15 require member states to implement the law, inform people, and evaluate and review it.
Four years later she was appointed Magistrada de Trabajo, employment judge number 1 in Madrid and in 1988 she was appointed to the Employment section of the High Court of Madrid.
743, "the federal whistleblowers have seen their protections diminish in recent years, largely as a result of a series of decisions by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which has exclusive jurisdiction over many cases brought under the Whistleblower Protection Act (WPA).
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 116(2) of, and part I of the seventh schedule to the Unemployment Insurance Act 1935 (25 & 26 Geo.
The Trade Dispute Decree No.7 of 1976 set up the National Industrial Court; initially consisting of a president and four other members and a quorum of the president and two members.
The board usually meets twice a year to determine minimum wages for agricultural workers, and to set conditions for holiday and sick pay entitlement.
The term industrial democracy was also used by British socialist reformers Sidney and Beatrice Webb in their 1897 book Industrial Democracy.
In 1912, the Industrial Arbitration Act of South Australia provided at section 22 that: The Court shall not have power to order or prescribe wages which do not secure to the employee affected a living wage.
The original union put it under trusteeship to block the transfer, and the court upheld the move as legal under the Act.
The Adequate Minimum Wage Directive 2022 (2022/2041) is a European Union Directive on the setting of minimum wages and collective bargaining in EU law.
Starting in 1909, Liberals, led especially by David Lloyd George, promoted the idea of a minimum wage for farm workers.
This process often benefits the employer because it reduces the chances of a strike or legal action, and benefits the employee because it allows them more bargaining power and prevents mass layoffs in a dispute.
But if the employee's Agency has clear and convincing evidence that a personnel action would have been taken against a civilian employee absent their disclosure of alleged wrongdoing, the Inspector General “non-substantiates” the case.
However earlier that week a similar bill had been introduced into the House of Commons by MP John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury that would apply to England and Wales.
In the case that the ECHR ruled on, the company that engaged in forced labor and human trafficking appeared to be owned by the wife of Azerbaijan minister Azad Rahimov.
Law of May 19, 1874 limiting the working time of children under twelve years of age to 6 hours per day in sectors authorized to employ them.
Moreover, the peace obligation does not apply to the secondary action, the general prohibition of industrial action against a neutral third party is lifted, and permissible actions are not limited to walk-outs (can include boycotts, blockades, etc.).
The term was defined by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) in 1990, in the case of Foster, A and others v.
Initially the courts followed a strict interpretation of territorial jurisdiction, where states only had power over property or defendants who were actually present in the state (excepting corporations or residents).
The second is that either party may terminate the employment contract as long as the other party is given notice.
Today industries like screenwriting, hotels, and railroads still see sectoral bargaining predominate.
In his view the CDA too much emphasised policies that resulted in the dismantling of social security.
Since 1988, eight countries have been suspended or terminated from the GSP program: Burma, Liberia, Maldives, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Pakistan (several products), Sudan and Syria.
Social Catholicism, particularly the work of René de La Tour du Pin, which emphasized corporate harmony.
2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Section 4207 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R.
European Works Councils (EWC) are information and consultation bodies representing employees in European multinational companies.
Ikoyi Whistle-blower In 2017, a whistler-blower helped the Nigerian government recover 43.5million, GBP27,800, and N23.2 million at No.
This unpaid work contributes a real monetary value to the digital platforms' owners that is included in the GDP, while all the unpaid work is on the wrong side of the production boundary and is therefore not counted.
The act had established wage committees to fix minimum agricultural pay; these, too, were soon abandoned.
According to the Ontario Human Rights Commission, "sexualized" or "gender-specific" dress codes may harm women, reinforce gender stereotypes, and exclude transgender people and other marginalized groups.
The decisions of the Labour Court can be appealed to the Court of Labour (Dutch: Arbeidshof, French: Cour du travail, German: Arbeitsgerichtshof).
He helped enforce the first Russian labour code (1 June 1882) which provided a measure of protection for Russian factory workers.
She retired from politics on February 13, 2004, to become an executive director of the International Labour Organization.
An employee is hired for a trial period that gives the company an opportunity to evaluate an employee's job performance and conduct.
The journal has carried articles on transnational labour law, legal issues concerning immigrant domestic workers, freedom of speech in the workplace, globalization, work–life balance, and more.
The other three are the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, the Industrial Relations Code, and the Code on Social Security, which have been passed in 2020 but not yet come into force because the date of coming into force is yet to be notified in the official gazette.
It replaced the previous Labor Government's Industrial Relations Act 1988 and Industrial Relations Reform Act 1993, and commenced operation on 1 January 1997.
Universal Allocation Per Child (Spanish: Asignación universal por hijo) is a social security program in Argentina.
In an "equivalent" system, a European fund would pay out funds to either the national budget or national unemployment insurance in case unemployment increases steeply in a member state.
A federal agency violates the Whistleblower Protection Act if agency authorities take (or threaten to take) retaliatory personnel action against any employee or applicant because of disclosure of information by that employee or applicant.
The government picked up responsibility for the basic benefits that the unions and societies had promised, thus greatly helping their financial reserves.
carpenters, doctors, lawyers, and plumbers) who control their own work are accountable for their profits and losses.
In the 1990s, MTUC and AWAM joined forces in an awareness campaign that targeted all sections of society.
First it requires the abstraction of a man's labour from both his person and the product of his work.
Uk passed the 1833 Factory Act ] In 1839 Prussia was the first country to pass laws restricting child labor in factories and setting the number of hours a child could work.
Protecting Sources The mechanics of protecting Defense Intelligence Community whistleblowers occurs, in part, through the Inspector General Act passed in 1978.
He was also a prominent Irish nationalist, and in 1919 was arrested and fined for leading a prohibited Saint Patrick's Day march.
The organization was established with 42 states, of which 29 states are considered founder members as signatories to the Versailles Treaty; another 13 states, not signatories, were invited to be members and granted status as founder members.
British Columbia (Council of Human Rights) Work-product doctrine Constructive trust Employment discrimination law in the United States Section 508 Amendment to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Forum non conveniens Chapter 7, Title 11, United States Code Hardship clause == References ==
The report, based on an international survey, details how the laws of each country affect women's abilities to secure employment and start a business.
63 of 1948), as amended by the Factories (Amendment) Act, 1987 (Act 20 of 1987), served to assist in formulating national policies in India with respect to occupational safety and health in factories and docks in India.
This had led to predictions that there could be a "showdown" between the Strasbourg and Luxembourg courts.
Boyle v Equal Opportunities Commission (1998) C-411/96, [1998] ECR I-6401 Mrs Boyle worked for the EOC, which as an emanation of the state, was subject to the Directive with direct effect.
They consider that abusive minimum services cause the strike to cease to be noticed, thus distorting the right to strike.
Case law Manu v Steelink Contracting Services Ltd (1998) WEC2/98 Grey Advertising (New Zealand) Ltd v Marinkovich (1999) AEC 70A/99 == References ==
In 1966, Green won election to the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba for the north-end Winnipeg riding of Inkster.
The law then requires the DNI (or the relevant agency head) to forward the complaint to the congressional intelligence committees, along with any comments he wishes to make about the complaint, within seven days.
Where an employee has had at least one year's service, the employer also faces a separate claim for severance pay (French: indemnité de licenciement).
She is a member of the editorial board of the Industrial Law Journal, the European Labour Law Journal and Current Legal Problems.
The Employment and Social Insurance Act (French: Loi sur le placement et les assurances sociales) was a statute enacted by the Parliament of Canada in 1935 during the final months of the government of R.B.
The Hofstra Labor and Employment Law Journal is an American law journal which publishes articles in the field of labor and employment law.
2007: The Tamil Nadu state government announced that it has fixed minimum wages for 90% of all occupations.
Pre-independence The history of labor disputes in America substantially precedes the Revolutionary period.
Conferences Every two years, Labor Notes holds a national conference that brings together more than a thousand union members and leaders from the United States, Canada, Mexico, and other countries.
Marco Biagi Award The late Italian jurist Marco Biagi was instrumental in forming the Association, originally called the Club of Labour Law Journals, and served as its first president.
These explore topics such as new employment and labor relations laws, regulations, court cases, developments in employee benefits administration, on-the-job safety and health issues, and labor-management relations.
Activity Holding the posts of the Prosecutor General of the Soviet Union and the Minister of Justice of the Soviet Union, he participated in the repressions.
The number of workers affected was expected to be about 4.5 million, forming between 3% and 30% of the workforce in a given area depending on the location.
People operations is a holistic reinvention of traditional human resources, and is tailored to a more modern workplace and work practices, such as remote roles and global teams.
Although the lawsuit was eventually dismissed because the events had taken place before the LMRDA, also known as the Landrum–Griffin Act, had been passed, the case marked the start of a decades-long collaboration between Benson and Summers.
They estimate that it raised wages for farm labourers by 15 per cent by 1929, and by more than 20 per cent in the 1930s.
Announced during the summer of 2007, former Nickelodeon star Amanda Bynes also debuted a clothing line, Dear, on August 16, 2007.
In February 2007, Air Canada Technical Services reached an agreement to acquire 80% of Aeroman, the MRO affiliate of TACA Airlines, a Central American airline.
Originally, it functioned as a price-point retailer at prime locations in town centres, goods were sold using standard prices (hence its name), with everything having a standard price of 10, 25 or 50 cents, and later also 75 and 100 cents.
History Herbal Magic was founded in 1995 by Dieter Decker, who opened his first weight loss and nutrition center in London, Ontario.
The former Sigfox entity had raised more than $300 million from investors that included Salesforce, Intel, Samsung, NTT, SK Telecom, energy groups Total and Air Liquide.
Juventus striker Roberto Baggio became the face of the company in the 1990s, and launched his own personalized football boots, the Matchwinner.
That credit belongs to Blockbuster itself." Commentators view Blockbuster as a main example of failing to change with the times.
The company was criticised in late February 2025 for refusing to accept its own gift vouchers during its closing-down sale.
Fraudulent trading is entirely separate and distinct from "insider trading", which focuses purely upon the abuse of inside information in relation to financial markets for personal financial gain, and is wholly unrelated to creditor's rights or insolvency law.
Four days later, the chain's bankruptcy case was formally converted to Chapter 7, as proceeds from liquidation sales fell short of targets.
However, the phenomenon first emerged in the UK in 2009 when it was reported that German and Austrian nationals were moving to Kent in order to take advantage of bankruptcy laws in England and Wales, whilst residing close to Eurostar.
That takeover required changes in legislation, which at the time prohibited a fixed telephone company from purchasing another fixed telephone company in a different license area.
At the end of this wire the hand–grip would slam into a blocking mechanism and come to a stop about 20 feet (6.1 m) above the water, with the momentum thrusting the hanging rider 20 feet (6.1 m) forward into the lagoon.
Railroad Acquisition Holdings, LLC has established a new railroad named Central Maine and Quebec Railway (reporting mark CMQ) to operate the former MMA rail lines.
According to MMA, losses from operating the lines had reached the point where they were threatening the financial health of the entire railroad.
the equipment and power delivered for the price are outstanding", noting that the $2,795 computer "costs less than many stand-alone hard-disk drives".
Andrew Lutfy, a Quebec businessman who began working as a stock clerk at the first GDI store in 1982, is the owner of Groupe Dynamite.
By the end of 1971, Recrion was planning a $5 million sale of the Aladdin, which would help pay off the resort's debts.
As of late October 2024, the orchestra announced that the bankruptcy had been annulled and that they are rebuilding with a new Board of Directors.
Throughout the mid-1970s, Cuisinart sales rose due to the brand's association with celebrity chefs such as James Beard, a close friend of Sontheimer.
On March 20, 2016, SeaPort Airlines ceased service to North Bend/Coos Bay, and PenAir began service on March 21.
The downtown heliport on East River Pier 6 opened in 1960 and New York Airways moved all its Manhattan passenger flights down there around December 1960.
In February 1981, Metrospan Community Newspapers (a unit of Torstar) and Inland Publishing Company (formerly owned by The Telegram Corporation, owned by the Eaton and Bassett families) merged to become Metroland.
Knights Inn used to be built with all-exterior corridors and medieval-inspired architecture, but the chain now has updated options for all Knights Inn properties.
As the company grew, Mason increased the products’ performance and strength, and he was awarded numerous patents connected with Masonite.
IBBI has regulatory oversight on Insolvency Professionals, Insolvency Professional Agencies, Insolvency Professional Entities and Information Utilities.
Pier 1 filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on February 17, 2020, and on May 19, 2020, announced it was asking the bankruptcy court to close all stores, due in large part to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Canwest also bought broadcasting assets internationally, including outlets in New Zealand, the Republic of Ireland, and Australia, although all were eventually sold off.
Leon Restaurants Limited (branded as LEON) is a fast food chain based in the United Kingdom, established in 2004.
Under the scrapped plan, the $304 million in cash portion of the Greenberg-Ryan group’s May 24 deal with owner Tom Hicks would serve as a minimum bid, with the next bid at least $20 million higher.
2021: Reduction of fleet and closure of long-haul operations In 2021, restructuring continued in order to formulate a sustainable business plan that would allow the airline to both receive further governmental aid and investment from private enterprise.
Today Robertson Properties currently acquires and develops retail, office, and residential properties.
Tandy and Luther Henderson of the Tandy Corporation provided a loan to the California-based Cost Plus Imports chain in exchange for franchise rights.
In 2000, the company changed its name to 360networks Inc., and its United States entity to 360networks (USA)inc., to better describe its 360-degree focus on a global network.
This can be a way for people to deal with debt problems by protecting the debtor from the legal enforcement of debts which are included in the trust deed, but only once it has become protected.
While the Inuit of Fast Runner are depicted in a church, the Inuit of The Journals are represented in contemporary news stories as living in impoverished areas within wealthy nations.
The same private equity firm Wexford Capital eventually became involved with Republic Airways Holdings after disposing of its interests in Midway Airlines along with National Airlines after the 9/11 terrorist attack, which affected the airline industry so drastically.
Accordingly, the documentary claimed it observed Herbal Magic salespeople using tactics that lead customers to overestimate the supplements' effectiveness.
In 1971, Brown bought Ollie Gleichenhaus's "Ollie Burger" recipe for $1 million (equivalent to $7,949,877 in 2025), along with stock in the new company and a ten-year contract for $50,000 a year to appear as the official spokesperson of the Ollieburger on behalf of Lum's.
In the late 1960s, Dorothy Perkins co-funded Biba's expansion into a large boutique on Kensington High Street.
was created by Tandy Corporation in 1986 to operate Radio Shack stores in Canada, Europe and Australia.
Since the airport was self-funded it would charge higher-than-normal landing fees to pay back the bonds.
On September 24, the company announced that it would sell its 50.1% stake in Ten Network Holdings for A$680 million, in order to pay down its significant debt.
The Bon-Ton Stores began the decade by opening more stores, establishing a new division, Maxwell's, and acquiring L S Good, including its Fowler's department stores.
Construction was haphazard; all stores opened unfinished and renovations would continue well into 2001.
C E L ( 40 , 80 ; 100 ) = ( 30 , 70 ) {\displaystyle CEL(40,80;100)=(30,70)} ; here r = 10 {\displaystyle r=10} .
On March 11, 2025, the National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil suspended all operations of MAP and parent company Voepass due to management issues.
Suspended registration On November 26, 2012, the FDA suspended Sunland's registration to produce and distribute food product.
Brinquedos declare bankruptcy and cease operations began in 1994, when imported toys sold by street vendors began to strongly compete with the retail toy industry.
If Party A owes Party B 100 and Party B owes Party A 105, the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A).
It was announced in November 1987 that the final three stores were to liquidate, closing before the end of the year.
Due to this, the French Directory and the Minister of Finance, Dominique-Vincent Ramel-Nogaret, on 30 September 1797, issued one-time only paper bonds that would be redeemable for national lands; similar to what the Assignat was originally before it became a paper currency.
The Army and Navy depended on the product to develop Quonset huts for soldier housing throughout the European and Pacific war theatres.
As imports did not have continuity, Mesbla found itself in difficulties to provide technical assistance for the goods sold.
In March 2020, the Company reported profits of $3.7 billion in 2019, an increase of 57% from the previous year.
History The company was established in 1980 as a single, family-owned store in Mississauga in the Greater Toronto Area, with 12 employees.
A month before the bankruptcy proceedings, Billboard published that Ruffles and his wife were giving up the night club business to live in Los Angeles.
This practically assured him of being only the sixth person to represent this heavily Democratic, Latino-majority district.
The corporate headquarters remained in York, Pennsylvania, but the merchandising headquarters was relocated to Milwaukee.
Generally speaking, a floating charge is only potentially vulnerable if it is entered into within the vulnerability period under applicable law.
Ling later split Wilson into three parts (meat packing, sporting goods (Wilson Sporting Goods), and pharmaceuticals (Wilson Pharmaceutical and Chemical), and spun them off into separate companies traded on the American Stock Exchange.
Building the chain The flagship Sam the Record Man store was famous for its Boxing Day sales and often served as the location for newspaper and television reports on Boxing Day shopping.
12 further stores were closed during bankruptcy, reducing the chain to 32 stores before exiting bankruptcy in late 1986.
History Public records show that shortly before the closure of Republic Windows the owners purchased Echo Windows and Doors, a non-unionized window factory in Red Oak, Iowa.
"The maintenance component that supplies work to the Air Canada fleet has effectively ceased operations," according to Lorne Hammerberg, the IAMAW's local president in Winnipeg.
In practice the most important grounds tend to be insolvency (the fourth ground) and just and equitable winding up (the sixth ground).
To make calls, users dialed the BroadPoint toll-free number, then entered their PIN, followed by the desired number.
It became a Dominion store until 2002, when it moved to a larger store at the "big box" development at Murphy Square.
In 2009, Beth Ditto of the indie rock band the Gossip launched the Beth Ditto at Evans collection, also exclusive to the retailer.
In 2007, Adam, Ashley, and Austin reunited as The Clark Brothers and won the Fox Networks talent show The Next Great American Band that year.
Some stores were not full franchises but used Roblan Distributors as their principal rack jobber and were known as RD 2000 stores.
Due to financial problems during 1990 and 1991, Airlift International ceased operations in June 1991.
The reason why he chose the name to begin with was because, as Weinstein said, "it reminded me of the countryside and the flowers and the springtime".
Following a slump in business caused by nearby construction, the company that managed the plaza where Prego Della Piazza was located chose not to extend the restaurant's lease in early 2010.
The range proved popular: Adele wore a dress at a gig in Canada and was reported to have bought the whole range.
The airline was founded in 1981 in Panama City, Florida and operated scheduled passenger service between 1981 and 1988.
Financial problems and closure Since 2002, Todeschini Alimentos was suffering from financial problems due competition and administrative problems.
A survey of US debt settlement companies found that 34.4% of enrollees had 75 percent or more of their debt settled within three years.
In a creditor's voluntary winding-up, he must report to the creditor's meeting on the exercise of his powers.
The eighth of eleven children, Hinojosa was reared in Hidalgo County, which borders on Mexico, and earned two business degrees, a Bachelor of Business Administration from the University of Texas at Austin and his MBA from the University of Texas–Pan American.
The company emerged from bankruptcy in less than 24 hours due to the agreement of all stakeholders, a strong strategic plan, and a stable team.
One of the major characteristics of the company was counting on huge stores often similar to a real market or specialized shopping mall only with toys.
A low-cost carrier, it was formed in 1994 under the name Commercial Air, later changed to Western Pacific, and began operating scheduled passenger flights on April 28, 1995, with eight Boeing 737-300s.
The Court also held that the legislative history of the termination and severance pay provisions and the other provisions in the ESA supported an interpretation that such benefits were payable to employees whose employment is terminated upon bankruptcy.
Sigfox 0G technology is a global Low-Power Wide-Area (LPWA) networking protocol founded in 2010 and adopted by 70+ Sigfox 0G Network Operators globally.
In 1999, PizzaExpress introduced its Schools Programme, a programme where the company turns its restaurants into classrooms, educating children about fresh ingredients, how to run a local business and how to cook for themselves.
The flagship, downtown Toronto location, at Brookfield Place (formerly BCE Place), went out of business in January 2010.
As of that time, it was operating nearly 80 stores, mostly in the Northeastern United States and on the West Coast, under the corporation PLVTZ LLC.
Aviation Safety Network and NTSB incorrectly identify this as an aircraft operated by Interior, but contemporaneous reporting is very clear.
New Look was owned by private equity groups Apax Partners and Permira, and founder Tom Singh, until May 2015 when it was acquired by Brait SE (SA) for £780 million.
On August 4, 2008, Steve and Barry's LLC, a retailer of casual apparel, filed a stalking horse agreement with the U.S.
Litigation arising from the conflict eventually reached the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
Best known for its lingerie, tights, and sleepwear collections, its other clothes had difficulty competing with the more trendy Lewis Separates, now owned by River Island Clothing Company Ltd, and Peter Robinson.
Senator Daniel Inouye, and a deal between Aloha and Saltchuk was struck and approved by the federal bankruptcy court, where Saltchuk would purchase the cargo division for $10.5 million.
In order for 722 redemption to apply the item in question must be personal property intended primarily for personal, family or household use.
In November 2000, the company had a market capitalization of $13 billion, despite only $234 million in revenue for the first six months of 2000.
By the fall of 1975, the factory that had made only 30 pairs of shoes a day was making more than 2,000.
The whole organization soon was mired in bankruptcy and spurred the decline of the regional department store.
On March 21, 2019, it was announced that the Sabres would play the Tampa Bay Lightning in the 2019 NHL Global Series at Ericsson Globe in Stockholm, Sweden.
In Idaho, its main competitors were Gem State Airlines, Cascade Airways, and to a lesser extent Hughes Airwest (later Republic Airlines).
In 2013, Christmas Tree Shops introduced a new brand and store format called Christmas Tree Shops andThat!, with the name change intended to avoid confusion in new markets unfamiliar with the store.
It has attracted the attention of the Australian Securities & Investments Commission, the Australian Taxation Office and the Fair Work Ombudsman, who have been pursuing those undertaking such practices to evade liability under their respective statutes.
The company certified and produced the inline piston twin-engined Adam A500, while the turbofan-powered Adam A700 AdamJet was under development.
They also act on directions, instructions and guidance from the service's Inspector General or, less often, from the Secretary of State for Business and Trade.
A fire in March 1933 destroyed many of the racing pictures, though some still remain in the family of the subsequent owner, William Soshnick.
Merger with World Color Press In 1999, Quebecor Printing merged with World Color Press in a US$2.7 billion deal to create Quebecor World.
On May 4, 2011, it was reported that nearly three months after abruptly closing down local drugstore chain and filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, El Amal was liquidating the inventory it had left, the company in charge of the transaction announced in an ad published Tuesday.
The company began charter operations on 15 June 1946 using Fairchild F-24 Argus and Douglas DC-3 aircraft.
in 2017, the Ontario Securities Commission permanently banned Drabinsky from becoming a director or officer of any public company in Ontario.
Thomas Hurkmans, president of DQE Enterprises, at the time, was the initial financier of this business.
This process, too, has a unique Nash equilibrium, in which the payoffs are equal to the ones prescribed by the constrained equal losses rule.
Today, Tinsley IV and Booth operate the company out of its current corporate headquarters in Houston.
Signed to Curb Records in 2000, The Clark Family Experience debuted on the American country music scene that year with the release of their single "Meanwhile Back at the Ranch".
Ayre's Supermarkets Ayre's also began to open supermarkets in the 1960s, under the name Ayre's Supermarkets.
Throughout 2007 the company started selling off aircraft from its training fleet to raise capital to increase recruiting, which further slowed down training.
In November 2009, Subway signed a deal to serve exclusively Seattle's Best Coffee coffee as part of its breakfast menu in the US.
On 9 July 1953 it may have been the first scheduled helicopter airline to carry passengers in the United States, with headquarters at LaGuardia Airport.
For example, a payment is due in three months' time but the borrower has been put into liquidation: and covenant default, when the borrower fails to keep a promise (a covenant) that it has made in the contract.
On May 30, it was announced that Pier 1 Imports had received court approval to liquidate all locations.
Uncooperative creditors of HFI during this period are prevented from disrupting our regular business.
By late 2000, the F100s became expensive to maintain and operate, so Midway began to replace them with Boeing 737-700s.
At this point, many properties had begun re-branding to other companies, most notably Motel 6, Travelodge, and Days Inn; conversely, HMS began acquiring buildings from other chains and re-branding them to Knights Inn, thus abandoning the chain's architecture standards.
After LTV departed its headquarters for Cleveland, the building was renamed the Trammell Crow Tower; it is now Trammell Crow Center.
2011–2013: Leaseholds acquisition and partnership On January 13, 2011, Target announced that it would purchase the lease agreements of up to 220 Zellers stores for C$1.825 billion (approximately $2.427 billion in 2025 adjusted for inflation).
The Humane Society pledge While there was talk of New York banning the sale of pets, Petland Discounts had gone towards becoming a puppy-friendlier pet store.
On June 14, it was reported that Fortress Investment Group, a Wall Street investment firm co-founded by the Milwaukee Bucks co-owner Wesley Edens, was interested in saving Red Lobster out of bankruptcy.
The company was founded in 2010 through the merges of two retail companies, being the Belo Horizonte-based Ricardo Eletro and Salvador-based Insinuante.
SMCD 5126 Canadian Trumpet Concerti, works by Hetu, Forsyth, Nimmons, Guy Few, James Thompson, Dan Warren trumpet, Armenian conductor.
The opening of Za was part of a five-year plan to refresh and improve the brand, called Future Express.
To fulfill the wishes of a daughter, he commissioned from a renowned architect from São Paulo a dollhouse, worth 300 000 dollars, which was installed on his farm in Indaiatuba.
In 2009, it was advertised the comeback of Mesbla: an e-commerce company negotiated the purchase of name usage rights with Mansur and intended to open a site aimed at women in March 2010, with official launch in May of the same year.
Western governments were convinced that they should openly support the anti-Bolshevik forces to restore a capitalist order.
Business areas Metroland's regional and specialized business units can be grouped into five categories: Newspapers, Printing, Distribution, Digital Media, and Consumer Marketing.
However, Texas officials—particularly those from Fort Worth—thought that increased traffic at Love Field could draw flights away from DFW Airport and threaten its financial stability.
In 2025, SSENSE filed for bankruptcy protection with $371 million CAD of debt, including over $93 million CAD owed to vendors.
Two months later, the almost-brand-new aircraft was still stranded in Shiraz and subject to seizure by the Iranian government.
In the ensuing off-season, Jason Heyward was released and Willson Contreras left in free agency, leaving Kyle Hendricks as the only remaining player from their 2016 championship team.
Right now, Diadora is the kit maker of Norwegian Eliteserien club Viking FK At the 2025 season, Diadora made a return to the Brazilian football, providing kits for Coritiba and Náutico.
It aired on YouTube on the 9th anniversary of BTS’s debut, June 13, in celebration of the release of their new anthology album Proof.
HEMA (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈɦeːmaː]; originally an acronym for Hollandsche Eenheidsprijzen Maatschappij Amsterdam, "Holland Unitary Pricing Company Amsterdam") is a Dutch variety chain store known by relatively low pricing of generic household goods.
Promotions In 2003, Red Lobster offered an endless snow crab leg promotion, the second in its history.
The interest in the property must be exempted under the bankruptcy code or has to be abandoned by the bankruptcy estate in order for 722 redemption to be used.
In English law the concept of universalism is usually used in contrast to the alternative theory of judicial cooperation in cross-border insolvencies referred to as the doctrine of unity.
An expanse of arid land on the eastern edge of the Mojave Desert 100 yards (91 m) from Interstate 15 was chosen for the project.
Café des Artistes was designed for the residents of the Hotel des Artistes, since the apartments lacked kitchens.
Dorothy Perkins is a British online women's fashion retailer operated by Debenhams Group in the United Kingdom.
In March 2007, The Wall Street Journal reported many lenders, including HSBC Mortgage Services and Countrywide, were demanding AFM repurchase loans pursuant to repurchase provisions contained in loan purchase agreements.
Shortly before the opening of the airport Continental Airlines shut down their Denver hub, leaving Denver as a hub for only one carrier, United Airlines, whereas Stapleton had once been a hub for airlines like the original Frontier Airlines (1950-1986) and Western Airlines.
The company announced that it intended to return the A500 to production after re-engineering it to lose 1,000 lb (454 kg) of empty weight and recertifying it.
It was listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange on 7 October 2010 with the IPO price of HK$3.48 per share.
Soy protein in chicken products In 2017, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) investigated chicken sold by five fast-food restaurants.
Bachelder is served as interim CEO until the former Pier 1 CFO, Robert Riesbeck took over in November 2019.
The balance available, if any, after the non-preferential creditors are repaid is distributed amongst the company's shareholders.
§ 1692g(a) requires specific information regarding the consumer's right to dispute all or part of the debt to be provided in writing to the consumer within 5 days of the initial communication.
In 1979, Bob Goodfriend became president of the business and the company changed its merchandise focus from the outlet model to offering current, first-quality, brand-name merchandise.
Non legal staff familiar with bankruptcy and the assignment process can also affect the speed validity of the process.
Northern Telecom was the first company in its industry to announce and deliver a complete line of fully digital telecommunications products.
AEI had large national customers into international markets, while DMX had dealt with smaller businesses.
By 1981, Crazy Eddie operated ten locations, including a Manhattan store on East 57th Street on the Upper East Side.
The Force Drive drive train is integrated into the Ford Transit Connect Electric, Ford E-Series Balance Hybrid, as well has a number of other passenger and medium and heavy duty trucks.
Harrison made its products more functional for users with disabilities, designing larger fonts so that people with vision problems could see them.
These dates must fall due on the same day and be in the same currency, but can be agreed in advance.
The receivership remedy is an equitable remedy that emerged in the English chancery courts, where receivers were appointed to protect real property.
Both the AFM and Burch bankruptcy cases were subsequently converted to "asset" cases by the Bankruptcy Trustee after assets for distribution to unsecured creditors were discovered.
The remaining open stores in Northwest Indiana were sold in bankruptcy auction to the Strack and Van Til families and the Indiana Grocery Group.
1980s Before the Internet, companies like DAK relied on catalogs and print ads to generate sales and incurred high costs for printing and mailing.
Zeckendorf secured the loan by giving the Teamsters Union his lease of the park's 149-acre (60 ha) site, among other sites; this resolved the park's short-term debt.
This process is known as creditors voluntary liquidation (CVL), as opposed to members voluntary liquidation (MVL) which is for solvent companies.
The airline's first president, Mike Malik, rebranded the airline, launched a host of new products and services, and established "Aloha Tech Ops", the MRO division.
Target would sell the remaining 64 to 74 acquired locations to other retailers, including 39 already resold to Walmart Canada.
An unsecured creditor is a creditor other than a preferential creditor that does not have the benefit of any security interests in the assets of the debtor.
reincorporated as the real estate company that currently does business, using the real estate that its stores had previously occupied.
filed for liquidation in February 2021, citing low customer numbers because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
After the Zellers stores at the selected locations closed, Target planned to renovate between 125 and 135 of them, and reopen them under the Target banner.
Lift 6 (Cornice Express) is a high speed detachable lift serving advanced terrain, as well as allowing skiers to traverse to the Timber Creek area through Sentinel Bowl.
First, it only operated seasonally, thus reducing potential income; this contrasted with Disneyland, which operated year-round.
In the 1990s, Diadora was also the official kit supplier of several Italian football clubs, including AS Roma for three seasons, between 1997 and 2000.
Prior to the purchase, Mega and Mattel were partners in adding Mattel brands to Mega "Worlds" plus a line for Mattel's American Girl that competes with Lego's Friends line.
On the 5 September 2024, ASOS announced that it sold a 75% stake of Topshop & Topman to the Danish company Bestseller.
Manhattan real estate developer Joel Schreiber purchased a 33% interest in the company for $15 million.
1940—1970: Wartime contributions and wide-scale use During World War II, Masonite’s hardboard became an important substitute for metals.
In the event of the bankruptcy of the debtor, the secured creditor can enforce security against the assets of the debtor and avoid competing for a distribution on liquidation with the unsecured creditors.
See also Landmarks of the Nebraska Territory References External links Official website The Archway Monument on VisitNebraska.org Archived July 19, 2011, at the Wayback Machine Federal bankruptcy court documents via archive.org Review Essay in the Spring 2001 Great Plains Quarterly
In 1992, the chain was advertising its two remaining locations in Manhattan—at 51st Street and Broadway (originally the famous Lindy's location), and at 45th Street and Eighth Avenue.
On November 28, 2008, Enerjet received an air operator's certificate (AOC) and Air Operator License issued by the Canadian Transportation Agency.
International expansion In 1981, the restaurant opened its first international franchise in Australia under the name Charlie Cheese's Pizza Playhouse.
The chain filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy again in 1987, planning to close 26 of 29 stores and operate 3 stores, two in Lima, Ohio and one in Wauseon, Ohio.
By 2024, Hampton Farms in Portales employed 170 people, and was the community's fifth-largest employer.
However, some countries have "ring-fenced" payments made for fraudulent trading so that they are made available to the pool of assets for unsecured creditors.
Leon has also introduced a retail grocery range, including sauces and frozen meals, which were sold through UK supermarkets such as Sainsbury’s and Ocado.
According to the New York Times, it caters to those in New York society who derive "fame from power rather than the other way around".
In other jurisdictions various forms of ad hoc cross-border cooperation exist on the basis of a foreign main proceeding.
Gertner initially proposed a repayment plan that returned a very small amount of money to his creditors with a total of 500,000 GBP was to be split between all creditors.
Common items for exemption include clothing, furniture, appliances, motor vehicles, medical and dental aids, a home, family heirlooms, and some insurance.
When the company closed, the team removed their logos on their cars, although the logo remained on the firesuits.
However, access to such procedures may still be restricted due to barriers such as the requirement to pay for legal procedures, limited size of the debt, or if one already went through a procedure before.
Any person wanting to make an application for a protected trust deed must have been a resident of Scotland for at least six months prior to making the application.
Policy For many years, it was city policy in Ottawa that buildings in the downtown core not be taller than the Peace Tower of the Parliament Hill buildings.
The patent for the Railplow was transferred to a subsidiary of the two companies and 360networks received a royalty-free, exclusive license for the use of the Railplow, giving it a significant advantage over some of its competitors that also utilized rail corridors.
Loan Xpress will forgive 75 percent of the amount borrowed by the majority of Silver State Helicopter's 2,700 students with the percentage of loan forgiveness per individual will vary by the amount of training that students successfully completed.
JW-SEZ Raiwind The Board of Investment (BoI) has approved MG JW Automobile Pakistan Pvt Ltd to manufacture electric vehicles in the country’s first private Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Raiwind.
The refinery received its first shipment of crude oil on 12 March 1924, with product coming "on-stream" on 17 May 1924.
It was initially established in January 1984 as a joint venture with BAIC Motor of Beijing, China, and American Motors Corporation (AMC) of Michigan, USA; therefore named Beijing Jeep Corporation (Chinese: 北京吉普汽车有限公司).
In May 2023, due to market policy by the Indian government, SAIC was forced to reduce shareholding in the venture.
Trillian restores AOL IM connection Archived 2007-11-07 at the Wayback Machine, CNN (February 26, 2002).
Awards Vice News has won four Peabody Awards for its documentary programs, The Islamic State and Last Chance High in 2015, Charlottesville: Race and Terror in 2017, and Losing Ground in 2020.
Entering into the program automatically classifies a player as professional, and thus disqualifies them from playing college soccer.
In 2021, the Federal Board of Revenue (FBR) investigated MG Motors in Pakistan for under-invoicing vehicles to evade taxes.
TV Group, as president of business operations in s the newly created position, to reduce the number of direct reports from 17 to about 8.
The company The BPA board comprises five directors, although the articles of association allows for up to ten.
Diamond has also missed payments to the Texas Rangers, Cleveland Guardians, Cincinnati Reds and Minnesota Twins of MLB and the Orlando Magic of the NBA.
Branch: Bari, Italy) TMEIC International Corporation (Istanbul, Turkey) Toshiba Mitsubishi-Electric Industrial Systems (China) Corporation (Beijing, China.
Games – Allowed users to play games, such as chess, billiards, checkers and backgammon; launched upon acquisition of ClassicGames.com in 1997, shut down in 2016.
Examples Filter RSS feeds Convert CSV to JSON or XML Extract HTML via CSS Selectors Get AppLinks meta data Parse any XML source Rate limits Use of the YQL should not exceed reasonable request volume.
The event, held at the Westgate Las Vegas Resort & Casino on July 11–13, had a total prize pool of US$100,000 and was described by IGN as "the 'World Cup' of competitive fighting games." Games Eight major tournaments were held at Evo 2014.
It is owned by a joint venture between American media group A&E Networks, and Network18 Group, an Indian media group a subsidiary of Reliance Industries.
The company has also granted voluntary licenses to 14 generics companies to enable the low-cost manufacture and sale of generic versions of the company's products in specific countries and/or regions.
GameWorks filed its second bankruptcy in 2010; as a result, Sega Entertainment USA, the parent company at that time, closed seven GameWorks venues on March 29, in an attempt to focus on profitability and future growth.
Prior to Game 3 of the 1995 World Series, Cleveland Indians slugger Albert Belle unleashed a profanity-laced tirade at NBC reporter Hannah Storm as she was waiting in the Indians' dugout for a prearranged interview with Indians lead-off man, Kenny Lofton.
In 2003, Fandango secured $15 million in funding from venture capitalists Technology Crossover Ventures.
Most of the companies acquired by Yahoo are based in the United States; 78 of the companies are from the United States, and 15 are based in a foreign country.
MGM+ On Demand MGM+ On Demand, a television video on demand service, is available to the channel's subscribers at no additional cost.
The plant solely produced vehicles for international exports, while vehicles for domestic market supply are manufactured by 50-50 joint ventures Dongfeng Honda and Guangqi Honda.
In May 2017, it was announced that PEPS had produced and sold more than 5000 electric bus powertrains for the Chinese market.
The service requires internet connection, television models able to support a HbbTV 1.5 standard and the manufacturer making the service available on the TV receiver.
UF4+F2 → UF6 Distillation Finally, uranium hexafluoride from the previous step is purified in a two-stage distillation system.
However, pricing disagreements, and international sanctions on Russia have caused delays in delivery and production.
In February 2017, CGG received a six-year contract to operate a processing centre in Seria for 2D, 3D, and 4D seismic data.
The Japan Consortium covers broadcasts of the Olympic Games (Summer and Winter), Paralympic Games (Summer and Winter), FIFA World Cup, Asian Games, and other major tournaments.
On March 15, 1930, the board of directors of SAVA approved a share capital increase of 4,000,000 Lire and afterwards, on April 11 of that same year, FIAT purchased the entire shareholding.
The BMA alliance operates five mines in the Bowen Basin: Broadmeadow Caval Ridge Goonyella Riverside Peak Downs Saraji BMA also operates Moranbah Airport and part of the Hay Point Coal Terminal.
From 1991 to 1994, VH1 (also owned by Viacom) carried ANC-produced interstitials during the morning music video block Hits, News & Weather.
He brings our trademark color pink to life." Asbestos controversy In 1978, two shipyard workers filed a class action lawsuit against which alleged that Owens-Corning and 14 other manufacturers had known about asbestos-containing products.
In 2023, Tony Excoffon succeeded Sugato Bhattacharjee as Nexcelle’s President, based on the alternating management agreement of the two parent companies.
Shortly after the Miss USA 2022 competition, the Miss Universe Organization suspended the organizers of the Miss USA pageant (headed by Crystle Stewart) after allegations of favoritism toward the eventual winner, R'Bonney Gabriel, while she was still Miss Texas USA.
See also Canadian Centre for Energy Information History of the petroleum industry in Canada (oil sands and heavy oil) Scotford Upgrader Suncor References Further reading External links Official website Canadian Oil Sands Trust Archived 27 May 2010 at the Wayback Machine Pollution Watch Canada
However, due to the growth of popularity and acceptance of mixed martial arts in the United States in the following years, the company would continue to grow.
Services The bank provides a range of financial products including travel money, insurance, credit cards, savings and loans, having withdrawn from the mortgage market in 2019.
Wind Force filed for a permit with the West Virginia Public Service Commission to build a 166 turbine wind farm, which would have been the largest wind farm east of the Mississippi River.
The frequent failures of JLVs have led to criticism of the Singapore government's conceptualisation and implementation of the JLV.
It uses a V-shaped hull of steel and monocoque construction to direct the force of the blast away from the occupants under a Ural truck chassis.
During this period, the name i-Guide became associated with the products, which gained a reputation for strong promotion of advertising similar to the ads that appear on web pages today.
Games The eight games played at Evo 2018 were announced on February 6, 2018, during a special announcement stream on Twitch, with event co-founder Joey Cuellar discussing the inclusion of each game.
The title sold only 50,000 units and is considered one of the worst video games of all time, and left Steven Spielberg, one of the owners of DreamWorks, in doubt about continuing a video game company.
Centering on a newly built production base in Shenzhen, it had an annual production capacity of 200,000 vehicles.
also did not do critic pre-screenings for The House, which held a score of 16% until the day of its release, and opened to just $8.7 million; the lowest of star Will Ferrell's career.
As of July 2015, the first incarnation of Yahoo had acquired 114 companies, with Polyvore being the latest.
Training The SJI Training Center provides the support for SSJ100 flight and maintenance training through courses for: Flight crews (Type Rating and Recurrent), cabin crews (Transition and Refresher) and Maintenance and Ground Operations staff.
Wave Money (Burmese: ဝေ့မန်းနီး) is a mobile financial services provider in Myanmar which was established in 2016.
It then became part of ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks on December 4, 2019, when CBS merged with Viacom.
Successful identification and repair of the leak narrowly averted a planned lock down of the station in an attempt to isolate the leak, which would have affected station operations.
As the 1990s continued, Tropicana further expanded internationally, entering several more Latin American countries, Hong Kong and China.
On March 20, 2015, Aniplex and German distributor Peppermint Enterprises announced the establishment of Peppermint Anime GmbH, a joint venture aimed at expanding Japanese anime distribution in German-speaking countries.
Fincke and Chamitoff wave goodbye but express their relief at Garriott's leaving as he was annoying them with his constant talk of computer games.
The Corridor Pipeline which transports diluted bitumen from the Muskeg River Mine to the Scotford Upgrader is owned by Inter Pipeline Ltd.
From early 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic and the enforcement of the movement control order, Touch 'n Go eWallet and other competing e-wallet services have seen boosted in popularity as many users rely on these services to make payments for take-out and donations for zakat.
On May 15, 2023, Vice Media formally filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, as part of a possible sale to a consortium of lenders including Fortress Investment Group, which will, alongside Soros Fund Management and Monroe Capital, invest $225 million as a credit bid for nearly all of its assets.
The show aired on Nickelodeon from May 9, 1991, to March 11, 1994, and continued in reruns often in early morning time slots right after Nick at Nite had finished (usually as part of Cable in the Classroom) until September 1, 2000.
Leasys, a subsidiary of FCA Bank, in 2018 acquired Winrent, a short-term rental company and at the same time continued its internationalization path.
A number of their juice products designed for an extended shelf life are colored with carmine, an extract of cochineal beetles.
Smith Scott Thompson Maynard Webb (2012) – chairman, Yahoo; founder, Webb Investment Network; chairman and former CEO of LiveOps Gary L.
A second production facility is at Dharwad, Karnataka, and this facility can produce up to 30,000 buses per year.
Transdev John Holland Buses inherited a fleet of 474 buses from the STA, which included Volvo B12BLEs, Mercedes-Benz O500LEs, Volvo B12BLEAs, Scania K310UBs, Scania K280UBs, Volvo B8RLEs and Custom Denning Elements.
Frontier and a mobile seed cleaning business, formed a joint venture operation in 2013, to process and market seed in the East Midlands.
Shortly after Kelly's arrival at the Space Station, A Beautiful Planet shows him participating in an initial examination of his eye, to study and correct any vision decline reported by many astronauts.
Research & Technology Centers Chevron Phillips Chemical has two US based Research and Technology Centers.
On December 24, 2021, GameWorks announced that it would be closing all of its remaining locations, citing financial difficulties brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Battery Park was constructed on a site purchased by the Kentucky state in 2002 to attract Hyundai to build a car plant.
In 2005, Daimler decided against purchasing a 50% share in the Dutch NedCar plant used to manufacture the ForFour, ending its production.
Tata Marcopolo (officially Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd.) is a bus and coach manufacturing company with headquarters in Karnataka, India.
During 2018, transactions amounted to $1.3 billion, which is approx 2 percent of Myanmar's GDP, and raised to $4.3 billion during 2019.
On August 6, 2003, EA Los Angeles moved from their offices in Bel Air to a new campus in Playa Vista.
AWAC's business is the mining of bauxite, the extraction of alumina (aluminium oxide) and the smelting of aluminium.
Bankruptcy and sale (2023–present) In January 2023, Vice began exploring the possibility of selling itself.
History On December 31, 2016, the project to create an equal joint venture between CK Hutchison Holdings, owner of 3 Italy, and VimpelCom, owner of Wind Telecomunicazioni, was completed.
Exide Life Insurance distributed its products through multiple channels, including an agency channel with over 40,000 advisors and more than 200 company offices across the country.
According to congresswoman Helen Delich Bentley (Rep., MD), when challenged, they told the Army, "It is policy—so sue us." == References ==
In February 2011, Sollers decided to terminate their partnership with Fiat at the end of the year, and the Naverezhny Chelny plant was offered to Ford as part of the new Ford Sollers joint venture.
The reasons for the crash were never fully investigated and the results of the limited investigation were only made public in 1990.
The joint venture subsequently was selected to provide the nacelle and thrust reverser for GE's Passport integrated propulsion system, which powers the Bombardier Global 7000 and Global 8000 business jets.
In 2023, True North announced that it would sell a 20% stake in the company to Bupa for ₹2,700 crore (US$320 million), making Bupa the majority shareholder at 63%.
As of 1 May 2020, Touch 'n Go eWallet has facilitated donations to 22 non-governmental organizations in Malaysia with amounts worth more than RM280,000 (~US$69,000).
On January 6, 2020, Fujifilm announced that it would not renew its technology agreement with Xerox when it expires at the end of March 2021, and that Fuji Xerox would be renamed Fujifilm Business Innovation Corporation in April 2021.
While Fandango initially chose to keep the "Vudu" name for brand recognition as the larger of the two services, it would eventually be renamed to Fandango at Home on February 15, 2024.
In January 2011, Reach sold FLAG North Asia Loop System to PCCW Global (Singapore), a subsidiary of HKT.
On June 30, 2007, Toshiba Corporation sold the remaining 45% stake in the company to EMI, giving EMI full ownership of the company.
A government probe later found Xerox Modi Corp had violated certain corruption laws and in May 2005 it was reported that action would be taken against the company.
Space Explorers: The ISS Experience is a Canadian virtual reality series directed by Félix Lajeunesse and Paul Raphaël, and produced in association with Time Studios.
On April 13, 2020, the channel resumed its regular primetime programming after 24 Oras, and its full programming was restored by September 21.
By 1991, all these Famicom Network System online services had shut down, except for the Super Mario Club as the sole final application of the Famicom Modem and Network System.
In February 2019, Max India's entire 51% stake was acquired by Fettle Tone LLP, an affiliate of Indian private equity firm True North, for ₹510 crore (US$72.42 million).
It allowed members to subscribe to various groups, read subscribed discussions online, view and share photos, files and bookmarks within a group, access a group calendar, create polls for group members, and receive email notifications of new discussion topics.
See also Human rights in the People's Republic of China List of Chinese dissidents External links Dissident jailed 'after Yahoo handed evidence to police' Times online article about Li Zhi Man jailed for posting critical comment online Sydney Morning Herald article about Li Zhi == References ==
A number of employees had been found stealing confidential data from its Silicon Valley software subsidiary that develops software for machine optimization.
KDF is located on a 2.5-hectare (6.2-acre) parcel of land leased from the Natural Energy Laboratory of Hawaii Authority (NELHA), which is located on the west shore of the island of Hawaii.
In 1993, the United States and Russia agreed to merge their separate space station plans into a single facility integrating their respective modules and incorporating contributions from the European Space Agency and Japan.
websites during the month in comparison to Google websites—the occasion was the first time that Yahoo!
In collaboration with Aniplex, SACRA MUSIC aims to strengthen its overseas expansion efforts and promote its artists' activities on a global scale by participating in events and holding overseas concerts.
Like History (which is 50% owned by Disney through A&E Networks) and Discovery Channel, the channel features documentaries with factual content involving nature, science, culture, and history, plus some reality and pseudo-scientific entertainment programming.
See also UK Oil Pipeline Network Oil and Pipelines Agency References External links BPA website Linewatch Map including BPA Network
According to The Financial Times, the company's co-ownership structure may change depending on the achievement of certain milestones.
In June 2019, Toshiba Memory Holdings Corporation experienced a power cut at one of its factories in Yokkaichi, Japan, resulting in the loss of at least 6 exabytes of flash memory, with some sources estimating the loss as high as 15 exabytes.
Models Special/Club Citroën Axel Gallery See also Bulgarrenault Oyak-Renault Polski Fiat References External links Media related to Oltcit at Wikimedia Commons
Following the formation of German Democratic Republic during 1949, many of the deported German scientists were allowed to return to East Germany and to practice their professions once more.
Production Garriott, as a private space explorer, flew into Earth orbit aboard Soyuz TMA-13 on October 12, 2008, docked on the 14th, and returned on October 24 after 10 days aboard the ISS.
Coverage on most competitions took feeds from the WTA international TV feed, but with larger events from the Premier Mandatory and Premier 5 category matches, Sam Smith or occasionally Annabel Croft presented coverage alongside Martina Navratilova.
Ocean Odyssey was 90 minutes timed ticketed walk-through attraction with retail space plus private event space managed by the Shubert Organization.
Initially launched in October 2008 with access to Yahoo APIs, February 2009 saw the addition of open data tables from third parties such as Google Reader, the Guardian, and The New York Times.
Programming 24 to Life 48 Hours Mystery Australian Federal Police: Frontline Beyond Scared Straight Bloodwork Born to Kill?
The rebrand would result in the addition of more reality series, talk shows and other original series from Lifetime to the channel's films and television dramas.
Nat Geo TV Nat Geo TV is an application for smartphones and tablet computers, along with Windows 10.
Santa Elina and MSP paid the rest of the debt through what they owned from Biopalma's participation in quitting their debt with Itaú.
Although Spring Airlines uses Airbus A320 aircraft, the 737 was chosen for its Japanese subsidiary due to Boeing's greater popularity among Japanese airlines and the relative ease of finding 737-qualified pilots.
Although Legends began as a concessions company it has since expanded to help teams build and operate stadiums.
TMEIC Corporation (株式会社TMEIC) ( TEE-myke) is a joint venture between Toshiba and Mitsubishi Electric headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, specializing in industrial electric and automation systems for industrial plants.
NTT's launch initially suffered reliability problems that were painstakingly assessed by Nintendo at individual users' homes and traced back to the network.
Pantelion Films said that Latinos were the fastest growing segment of the movie going audience in the 2010s and were loyal DVD consumers.
The channel is fully owned by the National Geographic Society with no involvement from Disney General Entertainment Content.
Headquarters Fujifilm Business Innovation Corporation has its headquarters situated at Tokyo Midtown West in Minato, Tokyo.
Melee BlazBlue: Chrono Phantasma Killer Instinct Injustice: Gods Among Us King of Fighters XIII Tekken Tag 2 2014 was the first year to feature Killer Instinct as a main title at the Evolution Championship Series.
History Tognum AG was formed when private equity fund EQT IV acquired in late 2005 several Off-Highway divisions of DaimlerChrysler.
The circuit will focus on Guilty Gear Xrd REV 2, BlazBlue: Cross Tag Battle, and BlazBlue: Central Fiction.
According to Zappa, this was because a Phonogram executive objected to the lyrics of a Zappa single titled "I Don't Wanna Get Drafted".
The service catered towards fans of geek and nerd culture, featuring cult classic films and television series, digital comics, and behind-the-scenes content from Wizard World's Comic Cons.
After two months of launching Wave Money, the number of its subscribers reached 100000 customers and reached 1.3 million as of March 2018.
On 4 February that year, the Spanish-language feed was launched on the operator in Spanish-speaking markets.
In 1999, Summers published his memoir with Hollander titled Everything in Its Place: My Trials and Triumphs with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, detailing his experiences living with the condition.
It entered a JV disposition agreement with SK On and SK Battery America, dividing ownership of the plants.
In October 2016, a second Vice News program, a nightly news program called Vice News Tonight, premiered.
Dongfeng and GAC had formed separate joint venture with Honda as Dongfeng Honda (in July 2003) and Guangqi Honda (in 1998) respectively.
In 2001, the three year alliance came to an end, at which point, under the terms of the deal, both AOL and Sun retained equal rights to the code that had been jointly developed.
The film offers distinctive views of Earth and provides insight into the day-to-day activities of the crews, captured over fifteen months aboard the space station.
Reports suggest that the consolidation may also affect mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) that rely on Three and Vodafone’s networks, potentially altering pricing structures and service offerings for budget-conscious consumers.
set up their own marketing and production unit in the UK in Theobalds Road, London, having acquired Oriole Records and its record-pressing plant that had prospered in manufacturing discs for U.K.
He hosted the CBS News morning programs, The Early Show and its predecessor, CBS This Morning, for seventeen years.
To contrast itself from the "grittier" offerings of other mainstream cable networks, USA Network's original programming during this era was marked by a focus on comedic and "optimistic" action and drama series, referred to as a "blue sky" approach.
Design The MPV debuted in 2010, with the design aimed at protection of Indian security forces conducting anti-terrorism and anti-Naxalite operations in India's rugged forested and hilly terrains.
Cooperation Manufacturing Plant Aguascalientes (COMPAS) is a joint venture manufacturing plant between Mercedes-Benz Group and Nissan based in Aguascalientes, Mexico.
On 2 October 2020, Vice Media Group appointed Nadja Bellan-White as the global CMO, to be in charge of worldwide branding, communications and promotions.
to Style Rowhouse Showdown Lost in Love Best in Bridal The Coolest Places on Earth Bio Programs BIO Classroom Biography My Ghost Story My Ghost Story Asia My Ghost Story: Caught On Camera Hollywood Cold Case Files Panic 911 I Survived...
All News Channel was never profitable throughout its history and could not withstand the challenges of MSNBC and Fox News Channel (both launched in 1996), which pushed ANC to fifth place in the ratings—behind Headline News—among all cable news channels.
On September 17, it was announced that Vice would air MLW's Fightland as a television special on October 7.
History The company was spun out of National CineMedia in 2013 to focus on live performances that National CineMedia had started presenting; the parent company remained focused on producing advertising for movie theaters, which had been its original business.
In late 2006, Sony Pictures Television and KingWorld planned a new game show called Combination Lock, with Summers hosting the first pilot.
It was damaged during transport to the launch site on 25 May 2016, and repairs might take up to two year.
An agreement to manufacture the F1A diesel engine for the Fiat Ducato and the UAZ Patriot in Nizhniy Novgorod was signed in December 2006.
This includes the Nikon 24-70mm f/2.8E ED VR, the Nikkor 600mm f/4G AF-S VR ED, the Nikon 800mm f/5.6E FL ED VR, and the Nikon AF-S FX TC-14E III 1.4x Teleconverter.
Some analysts believe the goal of the coalition was to try to force AOL toward a more open IM standard.
Grip tape as used on skateboards or stairwells is placed strategically throughout the loop to prevent slipping.
Viceland was not relaunched, but the new deal saw its content dispersed across some Bell-owned services such as MTV, Much, and Crave.
The city residences correspond to business travelers on a long term assignment but also French or foreign families on vacation, who can use their kitchens in these apartments and avoid restaurant expenses.
It became one of USA Network's first breakout hit series, and ran for eight seasons until it ended on December 4, 2009.
The plan spearheaded by Germany and Italy included a module which would be attached to Freedom, and with the capability to evolve into a full-fledged European orbital outpost before the end of the century.
From its inception in 2001 until Friday, February 27, 2009, the DNA was responsible for the non-editorial operations of both major newspapers in Denver, the Rocky Mountain News (owned by the E.
On November 10, 2023, Legends announced it would be acquiring California-based ASM Global for an undisclosed amount.
Due to their small staff on 9/11, the network could only be live for 30 minutes per hour and then repeat the broadcast.
Flurry also merged with a company called Pinch Media based in New York that was working on a similar product, and together they had almost 80% marketshare for mobile analytics.
I also think it and its competitors will eventually transform into services that more directly serve the interests of mail recipients.
Formed in 2008, Legends is a joint venture of Yankee Global Enterprises and Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys.
Sony Music Entertainment Japan was officially incorporated in March 1968 as a Tokyo-based 50/50 joint venture between Sony and U.S.
Programming The network rebroadcasts a direct feed of NEW-10 Perth, including programming and events produced in Perth.
In 1967, ACC was bought out by Purolator Filters, who made automotive oil filtration systems (hence the name "Pure-oil-later" = "Pur-o-lator").
Lewis's Ferrari 360 Challenge Stradale collided with an unidentified 1977 Porsche before hitting a light pole.
Telkomsel is the largest cellular telecommunication carrier in the country with 169.5 million customer base as of 2020.
Language editions Active In April 1995, National Geographic began publishing in Japanese, its first local language edition.
When CNBC acquired FNN in 1991, FNN: Sports was dropped in favor of the weekend talk programming on CNBC.
ESPN also had international holdings: Eurosport (33.3%, England), TV Sport (10%, France; Eurosport affiliate) and The Japan Sports Channel (20%).
At the hot shear line, steel coils of 1–8 mm (0.039–0.315 in) thickness and 800–1,600 mm (31–63 in) width can be cut to sheets of 1,000–8,000 mm (39–315 in) length.
Under such structures, it has manufactured elements of the following engines: IAE V2500, General Electric CF34-8/-10, General Electric GEnx, Rolls-Royce Trent 1000, Pratt & Whitney PW1100/1400G-JM, General Electric Passport 20 engine and General Electric GE9X.
It has three alumina refineries in Western Australia, located at Kwinana Beach, Pinjarra and Wagerup, and two bauxite mines at Huntly and Willowdale, also in Western Australia.
Buzz – A community-based news article service that allowed users to publish news stories; shut down on April 21, 2011.
JDCR's victory in an Echo Fox team kill Grand Finals lead to him receiving his second EVO championship, his previous title was in 2014 for Tekken Tag Tournament 2.
The implementation of drag-reducing flight modes of the space station resulted in saving about 1,000 kg of orbital-maintenance propellant per year.
Vice originally operated under the creative direction of film director Spike Jonze, and had a focus on lifestyle-oriented documentary and reality series aimed towards millennials; including new original series, and adaptations and reruns of existing Vice web series.
Announced in June 2018, when test broadcasting started, it was formally launched on 28 November 2018.
Bostock Patti Hart Eric Hippeau Sue James (2010) – retired partner, Ernst & Young Vyomesh Joshi David Kenny Timothy Koogle Robert Kotick Max Levchin (2012) – chairman and CEO, HVF, LLC Peter Liguori Daniel S.
AOL entered into an agreement with systems and software company Sun Microsystems whereby engineers from both companies would work together on software development, marketing, sales, installation and support.
Programmes Initial programmes Pawn Stars (2016–) Mountain Men (2016–) American Restoration (2016–) Exclusive A&E programming (April 2019—) Pawn Stars Storage Wars Counting Cars Programmes from Sky History Britain's Greatest Obsessions with Harry Hill, Chris Packham and Suggs.
This merger means that Telkomsel will begin to expand its coverage in the fixed broadband market while preparing for the transition to a digital economy and 5G technology.
Products and services Content Along with the core of AOL, brands such as Engadget, Autoblog, TechCrunch, and Built by Girls became part of Verizon Media (now Yahoo) in 2015.
Company operations TBC markets on a wholesale basis to regional tire chains and distributors serving independent tire dealers throughout the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
Services Flurry Analytics Flurry Analytics enables users to analyze consumer behavior through data observations.
In November 2024, Niva Bupa went public with an initial public offering and listed on the NSE and BSE, with Bupa continuing as the sole promoter after the IPO with an ownership of over 55%.
High-definition feed On September 1, 2008, History Channel Asia officially launched their own History HD Asia channel in Singapore and Hong Kong, followed by Japan, South Korea (Localized Version Launched), India, Philippines and Malaysia.
As of April 2008, the company's largest acquisition is the purchase of Broadcast.com, an Internet radio company, for $5.7 billion, making Broadcast.com co-founder Mark Cuban a billionaire.
Weed and insect resistance Recently, rapid emergence of weeds thought to be resistant to Roundup have been observed.
On October 3, 1994, the equity ratio of the company was changed, in which EMI obtained 55% with Toshiba owning the remaining 45%.
West Digital Television was also due to close down on 1 July 2024, but the Albanese government's communications department approved $32.9 million in an increase in funding the costs for the station's satellite contract.
The spacecraft concept would have a dry mass of 5.5 tons, and could store up to 13 tons of xenon propellant.
It was reported in 2004, that the joint venture would export most of their products to Europe, as well as Southeast Asia.
The International Space Station Archaeological Project (ISSAP) is a research group working in the areas of space and contemporary archaeology.
When you hold that L and run it back: EVO.”; the message is a response to all of the passion and support that the fighting game community has done towards the events and fighting games.
The joint venture was formally established during 1981, it became a part of the larger International Aero Engines (IAE) consortium in the following year.
Banks Cargill Agriculture was formed in February 2001 between Cargill and Sidney C Banks, a UK grain trader based in Sandy.
"Modelos de negocio en el nuevo entorno mediático: LovesTV como coopetición en la televisión híbrida y hacia el servicio OTT".
Nickelodeon Launch Box is an educational television series that was produced jointly by Nickelodeon, NASA and the Astronauts Memorial Foundation.
Structure In the agreement that created Nova Andino Litio Codelco maintains control of the assets while SQM runs the operation in Salar de Atacama.
Unlike NBC, ABC, CBS, Fox and The WB (the latter of which debuted its own children's program block, Kids' WB, the day before UPN Kids made its debut), UPN ran its weekend morning children's programs on Sundays instead of Saturdays.
Operational history In August 2011, the first production series vehicles were delivered to Jharkhand Police.
Fleet development Spring Airlines Japan took delivery of its first aircraft, a Boeing 737-800, on 17 July 2013.
Capri Holdings posted a $1.18 billion loss in fiscal 2025 as revenues decreased 21% from $5.6 billion to $4.4 billion.
In October 2018, the commission announced that it would drop its legal action against Ireland for failure to recover the amount owed by the deadline laid down in the Commission decision (the deadline was 3 January 2017).
History The scheme was introduced in 2000 for small and medium enterprises (SMEs), with a separate scheme for large companies launched in 2002 (see R&D Expenditure Credit or Above the Line R&D Tax Relief).
The Dutch Sandwich, with the Dutch company as the "Dutch slice" in the "sandwich", is used to move money to this Irish company (IRL2), without incurring Irish withholding tax.
The majority of the less than 100 material tax inversions recorded since 1993 have been of US corporations (85 inversions), seeking to pay less to the US corporate tax system.
Nonetheless, a 2010 Tulane Law Review article lent lukewarm support to President Obama's Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, which is a "bank tax" similar to the FSC.
Segregated portfolio companies or protected cell companies exist in countries such as the Bahamas, Belize, Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guernsey, and Mauritius.
The definitions of eligible R&D and costs are reasonably broad, and eligible R&D can be found in completely unexpected areas.
Jurisdictions such as the Cayman Islands, British Virgin Islands and Bermuda found that over 90% of their business companies were out of scope because their core industry does not cater to BEPS strategies.
Abolition of advance corporation tax From 6 April 1999 ACT was abolished, and the tax credit on dividends was reduced to 10%.
In the 2021 update, Dominica was added to the blacklist and Barbados was moved to the grey list, pending a supplementary review by the Global Forum.
However, in most countries the life is based on business experience, and the method may be chosen from one of several acceptable methods.
For example, an individual at that time paying no tax would get nothing back, they merely kept the cash part of the dividend received.
HM Revenue and Customs powers of enquiry HMRC has one year from either the date the return is filed or the normal filing date, which is itself one year after the end of the period of account, to open an enquiry into the return.
For example, the Canadian corporate return, Form T-2, an eight-page form, incorporates some detail schedules but has nearly 50 additional schedules that may be required.
The undistributed profits tax was enacted in 1936 by the United States administration of President Franklin D.
He has argued that the wealthy use free-market rhetoric to justify imposing greater economic risk upon the lower classes, while being insulated from the rigours of the market by the political and economic advantages that such wealth affords.
Tax havens essentially allow "world's wealthiest individuals and firms" to "steal revenue from other nations".
In turn, lawyers for the defendants argue that no court of law has ever ruled that the tax shelters in question were illegal.
Its rail products are used in high-speed trains, metros, light rail vehicles, locomotives, and signaling switching equipment.
The downside of a strategy of retaining profits offshore is that corporations may want or need to pay dividends to shareholders, or to make investments in the United States, besides other reasons.
Usually the contributions are apportioned as follows: around 30 percent is charged to the employer; around 10 percent is charged to the employee.
Limitations Taxable income limitation The dividends received deduction is limited with regard to the corporate shareholder's taxable income.
The limited liability company has grown to become one of the most prevalent business forms in the United States.
Distribution of earnings Shareholders of corporations are subject to corporate or individual income tax when corporate earnings are distributed.
The physiocrats were highly influential in the early history of land value taxation in the United States.
Implementation Historically, both the United States and United Kingdom had tax systems integrated to varying degrees.
Under partnership tax treatment, each member of the LLC, as is the case for all partners of a partnership, annually receives a Form K-1 reporting the member's distributive share of the LLC's income or loss that is then reported on the member's individual income tax return.
In 2010, the company's Tyco Telecommunications division, which provided and installed submarine communications cables, was renamed to Tyco Electronics Subsea Communications.
See also Depreciation recapture Quantity Surveyor Section 179 depreciation deduction == References ==
A self-assessment of possible tax deductions can be made using the online Cyprus IP Box tax calculator.
After the IRS finally decided in 1988 in Revenue Ruling 88-76 that Wyoming LLCs were taxable as partnerships, other states began to take the LLC seriously and enacted their own LLC statutes.
A land value tax (LVT) is a levy on the value of land without regard to buildings, personal property and other improvements upon it.
Tax base Rate The 2017 French corporate tax rate was 15% of the taxable income up to and including €38,120, 28% up to €75,000 and above which the rate is 33.3%.
To create a secrecy score for each jurisdiction, qualitative data based on laws, regulations, cooperation with information exchange mechanisms, and other verified data sources is used.
A few systems require an advance ruling by tax authorities in order to benefit from participation exemption.
Unlike corporations, they are not required to have a board of directors or officers (this could also be seen as an advantage to some).
The approach in United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles was codified in SFAS 96 published in December 1987, and updated in February 1992 with SFAS 109, accounting for income taxes from a balance-sheet approach.
Many jurisdictions—including Alabama, California, Kentucky, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Texas—levy a franchise tax or capital values tax on LLCs.
Formation In the United States, corporations are formed under laws of a state or the District of Columbia.
The accrual basis is a common method of accounting used globally for both financial reporting and taxation.
In June 2014, Aon announced that it agreed to buy National Flood Services, Inc., a large processor of flood insurance, from Stoneriver Group, L.P.
Taking a job as a sales person at a boutique called Lothar's across from Bergdorf Goodman on 57th Street in Midtown Manhattan, he later became both the designer and visual display head for the store.
In December 2023, Aon agreed to acquire NFP, a middle-market provider of risk, benefits, wealth and retirement plan advisory services company, for $13.4 billion.
The government and regulators then launched a review of Solvency II to tailor the regime to the United Kingdom market.
The present value of these savings is to be estimated and included as a part of the fair market value when valuing an intangible asset.
Partial integration focused on dividends may occur when shareholders receive a tax credit on dividend income intended to factor in the tax already paid by the corporation on the amount distributed as a dividend.
On March 10, 2011, Tyco Electronics Ltd changed its name to TE Connectivity Ltd., which the company said felt more relevant to its position as a connectivity and sensor component manufacturer.
This reflects that the company expects to be able to claim tax depreciation in excess of accounting depreciation.
A large number of countries are involved in the negotiations that are expected to be concluded by the end of 2016.
See also Foundation (nonprofit organization) Individual retirement account International taxation Pension fund Taxation of private equity and hedge funds == References ==
While the freedom to choose a data format may lower the administrative burden for some companies, it also raises questions about which invoice data and format can be considered legally valid.
Partnerships are a flow-through entity where the taxes are assessed at the entity level but are applied to the partners of the partnership.
For context, the five largest Silicon Valley giants paid $220 billion in taxes over the decade to 2021, or 16% of their cumulative pre-tax profits.
An appeal by the Crown on the reversal, and cross-appeal by GSK with respect to the case being returned to the TCC for rehearing, were subsequently made to the Supreme Court of Canada, which heard the case on 13 January 2012.
While of considerable economic significance to Canadian resource industries, and praised by observers as reflecting commercial common sense, Daishowa also has great importance in assessing the SCC's "modern" approach to statutory interpretation.
Following the announcement by the Government of Mongolia, shares of Ivanhoe (traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange) dropped over 21% (or CA$2.22).
Note that in some explanations and diagrams BER1 is omitted (the Bermuda black hole); however, it is rare for a US corporation to "own" IRL2 directly.
In one February 2014 radio interview, O'Rourke asserted that "there was a hole the size of the Grand Canyon", in the BEA analysis of Ireland's ETR.
profits plus foreign profits via repatriated dividends from foreign subsidiaries (if and when repatriated), and foreign based multinational corporations are subject to tax on 100% of their U.S.
The commentary indicates that a fixed place of business has three components: Fixed refers to a link between the place of business and a specific geographic point, as well as a degree of permanence with respect to the taxpayer.
Most foreign countries do not tax foreign dividends received by multinationals based in their countries so profits shifted out of the U.S.
Such rules are of interest to private-equity firms, which use significant amounts of debt to finance leveraged buyouts, and in the context of strategic acquisitions, where the purchaser wishes to push debt into higher taxed countries with significant pre-tax income.
Example The basic principle of accounting for deferred tax under a temporary difference approach can be illustrated using a common example in which a company has fixed assets that qualify for tax depreciation.
The disconnect lies in the distinction between Ireland's corporation tax "regime" versus Ireland's corporation tax "rate", which was highlighted by the EU Commission's 2016 findings against Apple's double Irish tax system in Ireland.
Contributions Health Reimbursement Accounts are notional accounts; no funds are expensed until reimbursements are paid.
IRS increases mileage rate for remainder of 2022 IRS Mileage Rate 2024 IRS Mileage Rate 2025 IRS Mileage Rate 2026
The scheme was introduced in 2000 for small and medium enterprises, with a separate scheme for large companies launched in 2002.
In July 2007, Tyco separated into three publicly independent companies, Covidien Ltd (formerly Tyco Healthcare), Tyco Electronics Ltd, and Tyco International Ltd (formerly Tyco Fire & Security and Tyco Engineered Products & Services (TFS/TEPS)).
Drivers Reduced taxes While corporates who execute inversions downplay taxation in their rationale for the transaction, and instead emphasise strategic rationale, research is unanimous that tax was the driver for most US tax inversions from 1983 to 2016.
"Highly compensated" participants may be subject to "certain limitations." A sole proprietor can employ a spouse who actually helps the business.
In August 2016, the Tax Justice Network's Alex Cobham described the OECD's MLI as a failure due to the opt-outs and watering-down of individual BEPS Actions.
In November 2016, Aon acquired CoCubes an online Indian Assessment firm, facilitating hiring of entry-level engineering graduates.
The responsibility remains with individual countries to require the public disclosure of information regarding the subject MNEs' tax structuring.
TE's products are used by the medical industry in imaging, diagnostic, therapeutic, and surgical applications.
Hedge fund herding continued to incite hedge fund portfolio managers to continue to buy Valeant shares.
(See topics such as Financial distress, Distressed lending, Death spiral financing, Factoring, debt restructuring, Debt, Loan, Money markets) Raising of new capital.
A partner's share of a recourse liability, then, is the share for which that partner bears the economic risk of loss.
By comparison, a fund set up as a C Corporation would be subject to tax for its earnings, and then the limited partners would be subject to tax when they received their profit in the form of dividends distributed by the corporation.
Many large multinational companies retain untaxed profits in tax haven jurisdictions which offer no or very low corporate taxes, as well as other tax benefits.
Dhammika Dharmapala (born 1969/1970) is an economist who is a professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley.
2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA): While the 2004 ACJA and the 2012–2016 Treasury Regulations sought to block US corporate tax inversions, the TCJA attempted to remove the taxation incentives by reforming elements of the US tax code.
Many systems, including the United States and Canada, extend this tax free treatment to the formation of a corporation by any group of shareholders in control of the corporation.
This acquisition added the medication Epidiolex (cannabidiol), developed to treat severe epilepsy syndromes, to the company's portfolio.
Securitisation transactions One of the most important service lines for OFCs is in providing legal structures for global securitisation transactions for all types of asset classes, including aircraft finance, shipping finance, equipment finance, and collateralised loan vehicles.
In 2003, the company saw revenues increase primarily because of rate hikes in the insurance industry.
So, unlike for R&D Tax Relief where only certain categories of expenditure can be claimed, RDAs are available on most expenditure incurred for the carrying out of, or provision of facilities for, R&D (except land and the cost of acquiring intellectual property).
Advance corporation tax The basic structure of the tax, where company profits were taxed as profits, and dividend payments were then taxed as income, remained unchanged until 1973, when a partial imputation system was introduced for dividend payments.
profits and losses are allocated to shareholders proportionately to each one's interest in the business.
Under a majority of taxation systems around the world, and until recently under the United States tax system, firms are taxed on their profits and individuals are taxed on their personal income.
Election and popularity fallout In 2014, Brownback ran for reelection, challenged by Paul Davis, the Democratic minority leader of the Kansas House of Representatives.
The prices paid by Glaxo Canada to Adechsa were a payment for a bundle of at least some rights and benefits under the Licence Agreement and product under the Supply Agreement.
Andrew Young has been cited for calling the United States system "socialism for the rich and free enterprise for the poor," and Martin Luther King Jr.
While G-7 countries have celebrated the deal as a breakthrough in ending the race to the bottom in corporate taxation worldwide, LMICs have expressed concerns about various inequities embedded in the deal.
While the legislation was originally resisted on extraterritoriality, human rights, privacy, international justice, jurisprudence and colonialism grounds, the introduction of these regulations has had the effect of putting these jurisdictions far ahead of onshore regulatory regimes.
In August 2016, Allergan plc sold its generic drugs business to Teva Pharmaceutical Industries in a $40.5 billion deal and announced the acquisition of ForSight VISION5 for more than $95 million.
In June 2009, the Irish State established the Commission on Taxation, to review Ireland's tax regime, and included Feargal O'Rourke, the "grand architect" of the Double Irish tool.
This option contributes to Switzerland's status as a tax haven and has induced many wealthy foreigners to live in Switzerland.
When it does so, it may attach a franking credit from its franking account, in proportion to the tax rate.
Similarly, an individual's net worth is the difference between their assets (what they own) and their liabilities (what they owe to others).
If property is used partially for business and partially for personal use, the basis of the property must be allocated between those uses.
The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act reforms US tax code and introduces a lower 21% headline tax rate and moves to a hybrid–"territorial tax system".
Part XI of the Income Tax Regulations provides for the calculation rules for CCA, and Schedule II outlines the various classes of capital property that are eligible for it.
Such exceptions include distributions in complete termination of a shareholder's interest and distributions in liquidation of the corporation.
Does it make any difference that the parties agreed to a specific amount of the future reforestation liability?
In September 2015, Valeant licensed psoriasis drug Brodalumab from AstraZeneca for up to $445 million.
A deduction for the full cost of depreciable tangible personal property is allowed up to $500,000 through 2013.
firm, U.S.-based multinational corporations utilized repatriation tax avoidance strategies that included the Killer B, Deadly D, and Outbound F.
Section 280F is a policy that makes the Internal Revenue Code more accurate by allowing a taxpayer to report their business use on an asset they may also need for some personal reasons.
pharmaceutical company AbbVie announced it had reached an agreement to acquire Allergan for $63 billion.
Depreciable property that is not eligible for a section 179 deduction is still deductible over a number of years through MACRS depreciation according to sections 167 and 168.
Double Irish O'Rourke was once labeled the "great architect" of the "Double Irish" base erosion and profit shifting ("BEPS") tool, as used by U.S.
multinationals to reduce their effective corporate tax rates to circa 10% (the Trump administration's original target).
These include taxes on excess accumulated undistributed earnings and personal holding companies and restrictions on graduated rates for personal service corporations.
The United States, United Kingdom, and French tax systems apply a more complex set of tests to limit deductions.
In February 2017, Aon sold its employee benefits outsourcing business to private equity firm The Blackstone Group for US$4.8 billion (£3.8 billion).
It is spread over an area of 359 hectares (886 acres) and has been designed as a self-contained city with state-of-the-art infrastructure, including a dedicated power plant, water treatment plant, and an underground utility tunnel.
Contributions to a Section 79 plan are tax-deductible, though for owner(s), and 2% or more shareholders, contributions are deductible only if paid by, and from, a C Corporation.
TE's products are used by the automotive industry for vehicle body and chassis systems, convenience applications, driver information, infotainment, motor and powertrain applications, and safety and security systems.
In October 2014, the company acquired the US sales and marketing rights to the osteoarthritis drug Pennsaid from Nuvo Research for $45 million.
This also reflects that the company has claimed tax depreciation in excess of the expense for accounting depreciation recorded in its accounts, whereas in the future the company should claim less tax depreciation in total than accounting depreciation in its accounts.
A poll on the referendum in April showed support for the measure but another in May showed only 33% supporting the measure, 56% against and 11% undecided.
This allows the fund itself to avoid taxation, as each of the individual investors is taxed as a partner with respect to the share of profits attributable to the partner's personal equity interest.
This policy of tax reduction did not extend to the rate of the CPT, but companies did benefit from two particular measures of the Cosgrave government.
On May 2, 2019, shareholders of the company approved the change of the company's name from Horizon Pharma plc to Horizon Therapeutics plc.
References External links HMRC HMRC CIRD re R&D Tax Relief Department for Business, Innovation and Skills
On the final day of trading, Salix shares traded for $172.81, giving a market capitalisation of $10.9 billion.
And since 2016, the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on BEPS provides for its 140 members a platform to work on an equal footing to tackle BEPS, including through peer review of the BEPS minimum standards, and monitoring of implementation of the BEPS package as a whole.
In years 3 and 4, the tax value exceeds the accounting value, therefore the company should recognise a deferred tax asset (subject to it having sufficient forecast profits so that it is able to use future tax deductions).
Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) method of calculating effective tax rates (ETRs), showed Ireland's corporate ETR was between 2.2% to 3.8%.
However, other notable tax academics strongly dispute these views, such as work by Slemrod and Wilson, who in their § Important papers on tax havens, label tax havens as parasitic to jurisdictions with normal tax regimes, which can damage their economies.
Blanket tax measures aimed at preventing tax avoidance can be excessive and restrict the free movement of capital.
2012 saw the opening of a second office in Asia, when their Singapore office opened in September 2012.
Capri Holdings has planned to up Versace's global retail footprint from approximately 200 to 300 stores.
Until 2013 most financial services firms, including insurers, were authorised and supervised by the Financial Services Authority (FSA).
In addition, foreign investors in Irish property can still use the L-QIAIF by holding via structured loans domiciled abroad, thus also avoiding Irish taxes in a confidential manner.
It announced the extension of the IR35 reform to medium and large companies in the private sector and charities, applicable from 6 April 2020.
In the context of corporate finance, the tax benefits of debt or tax advantage of debt refers to the fact that from a tax perspective it is cheaper for firms and investors to finance with debt than with equity.
As long as the company draws its accounts up to within four days of a mean accounting date each year, it may, for the purposes of determining its accounting periods, deem its accounts to be drawn up for a twelve-month period.
In July 2010, Aon announced that it had agreed to buy Lincolnshire, Illinois-based Hewitt Associates for $4.9 billion in cash and stock.
Permanent and Temporary differences If an item in the profit and loss account is never chargeable or allowable for tax or is chargeable or allowable for tax purposes but never appears in the profit and loss account then this is a permanent difference.
A reasonably detailed discussion of the company's ability to generate sufficient cash to support its operations during at least the twelve months from the date of the financial statements.
Differences and uniqueness Anstalt differ from the related entities called stiftung in that Anstalt can conduct all kinds of business activities.
The Greek energy minister justified this decision by stating, "Our primary concern is to maintain affordable prices on consumer bills until the end of this major, pan-European energy crisis." The tax revenues were used to subsidize energy prices.
Eligibility The following persons have rights to start a payer of the tax: a sole trader, an individual enterprise, agricultural or fishery enterprise, natural (private) person, that has registered economic activities with the State revenue service, a limited liability company.
HMRC publish full details of the progression of the tax deduction and payable credit rates on their website .
They believed that this violated Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Because of this difference in tax treatment, cooperative corporations will typically keep separate accounting for "patronage dividends" and "non-patronage dividends." See also Corporate tax in the United States Types of business entity References External links 26 U.S.C.
The issue was raised again in 2013, led by former Prime Minister John Major, who described the recent energy price rises of more than 10% as "unacceptable", and called for a one-off emergency tax.
RDAs make it possible to claim 100 per cent of the capital cost against taxable profits in the year the cost is incurred.
The 1931 Labour budget included an LVT, but before it came into force it was repealed by the Conservative-dominated national government that followed.
L-QIAIF Ireland is considered by some academic studies to be a major tax haven, and offshore financial centre, with a range of base erosion and profit shifting ("BEPS") tools.
McFadden, The American College, 2003 Section 79, IRC Treasury Reg 1.79 Diminimus Fringe Benefits -Notice 89-110 / IRC Sec 132(e)
The table also incorporates specified lives for certain commonly used assets (e.g., office furniture, computers, automobiles) which override the business use lives.
While many tax professionals welcomed the SCC endorsement of a "business reality test", others had been expecting more specific guidance.
After years of preparatory works, in 1928, the League of Nations developed a model to tackle cross-border double taxation and to counter tax evasion.
Under the act, they are available for specified types of claims: Notes References External links Text of the Capital Allowances Act 2001 as in force today (including any amendments) within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
References See also Research & Development Tax Credit Patent Box Research and Development Capital Allowances Research and Development Expenditure Credit Creative Sector Tax Reliefs
one incorporated under the federal Canada Business Corporations Act or similar provincial legislation) with fewer than 100 employees and under CA$500,000 in annual income.
The OECD expects many of these changes to be applied to currently existing tax treaties through the work based on Action 15 on Developing a Multilateral Instrument to Modify Bilateral Tax Treaties.
(115-97) permanently reduced the 35% CIT rate on resident corporations to a flat 21% rate for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.
The term corporate welfare is widely used to describe the bestowal of favorable treatment to big business (particularly corporations) by the government.
The hyperinflation of the 1920-1930s, the rise of the third Reich, and the division of Germany, especially communist control of East Germany, resulted in the decline in the formation of new Stiftungen, and many older foundations dissolved.
Overview The 10 per cent payable credit rate equates to a net benefit post-tax of 7.7 per cent of eligible expenditure for large companies (at 23 per cent corporation tax from April 2013).
The founder can be either a legal person or a natural person, need not be resident in the host country and Anstalt must have a minimum capital of CHF 30 000 (approximately US$33 800).
Economic Substance legislation introduced in recent years has identified that BEPS is not a material part of the financial services business for Cayman, BVI and Bermuda.
Premium finance and affordability Many policyholders pay for motor and home insurance in monthly instalments using premium finance arrangements.
The government responded by announcing "a comprehensive economic evaluation of the possible impact of moving to a land value taxation basis".
In contrast to the practice followed in the United States for depreciation there is no penalty for failing to claim Capital Cost Allowance.
In Arkansas, the District Columbia, Illinois, Kansas, and Montana, each cell must be formed by a separate operating agreement and/or Articles of Organization or similar paperwork filed with the Secretary of State (as opposed to allowing creation of cells in the LLC's operating agreement).
It combines the simplicity and flexibility of an LLC with the tax benefits of an S-corporation (self-employment tax savings).
Non life business, including motor, home, commercial property and liability insurance, produces a high volume of annual premiums and claims.
Unpaid workers In most cases, income may not be considered unrelated business income if the activity is performed by unpaid workers.
In 2024 UK insurers were reported to have paid around £585 million for climate related damage to homes and contents in a single year.
Scotland In February 1998, the Scottish Office of the British Government launched a public consultation process on land reform.
For example, in Q1 2015, Apple used the CAIA tool when its Irish subsidiary purchased US$300 billion in intangible assets from an Apple subsidiary based in Jersey.
It may be applied at the election of the taxpayer in lieu of regular depreciation, and it must be used for the following types of property: Listed property used 50% or less in a qualified business use.
If the turnover is in the range of 7000.01 to 100 000 euros for the first, second and third year of operation, then the rate is also 15%.
References External links Official website Capri Holdings on LittleSis, a website that publishes data on who-knows-who between government, donors and business Business data for Capri Holdings Limited:
In the context of tax assets and liabilities, there must be a reasonable likelihood that the tax difference may be realised in future years.
Through these combined activities, the CRA is responsible for managing a significant portion of federal and provincial government revenues and the delivery of major social benefits.
Full integration could be achieved by ending corporate tax, thereby treating all corporate income as shareholders' income by implication.
Others suggested that the small-scale independent miners would simply not report their full production to the government, or turn to smuggling to avoid the tax.
Creation While Ireland had created securitisation SPVs from 1991 onwards for their emerging International Financial Services Centre (IFSC), Section 110 of the 1997 Taxes and Consolidation Act (TCA) introduced more advanced SPVs to enable the IFSC complete in the global securitisation market.
Some countries, such as Saudi Arabia, have been trying to extend the concept of service PE into a virtual service PE.
Apple's previous hybrid–Double Irish BEPS tool had a modest effect on Irish economic data as it was offshore.
In order to keep the stream of payments associated with advance corporation tax payment, 'large' companies (comprising the majority of corporation tax receipts) were subjected to a quarterly instalments scheme for tax payment.
In 2005, Allergan acquired Inamed which had a licensing agreement with Corneal Group Laboratoires for Juvederm products.
Galveston Bay explosion (2003) On 17 June 2003, one worker was killed, four others were hospitalised and 21 were evacuated after an explosion on a Transocean gas drilling rig in Galveston Bay, Texas.
Starting from 2016, application of the tax gradually decreases and from 1 January 2019 enterprises operating in most sectors (industries), will not be able to use the tax regime.
Apple used the CAIA (or Green Jersey) BEPS tool in Q1 2015, resulting in the "leprechaun economics" restatement of Irish GDP by 34.4 percent.
Criticism The list has been said to have violated EU Law by discriminating against a former EU-Member State's territory such as Gibraltar, therefore violating the principle of free movement of capital.
Complete integration would treat corporate income as flowing through to shareholders, while partial integration only treats some income—often from dividends—this way.
S Corporation ownership stake If a nonprofit organization has ownership in an S corporation, the income from the S corporation is typically unrelated business income.
The taxation of cooperative corporations in the United States is subject to special rules under subchapter T of the Internal Revenue Code, different from both subchapter C and subchapter S corporations.
Corporations, like other entities, may be subject to withholding tax obligations upon making certain varieties of payments to others.
Under a discriminatory plan the first $50,000 of death benefit coverage is not free for owners and key employees.
This method of liability segregation was first called the "Delaware Series LLC" because the first state to enact this legislation was Delaware (in 1996).
States that refuse to accept this method of calculating depreciation for state taxes, for example, Iowa and Maryland, publish forms with instructions so stating.
Technology Tax Relief is the generic name for the programme of tax incentives implemented in the UK to incentivise companies to invest in high-value-add R&D and IP commercialisation.
Investment in agricultural commodities, which previously had only been permitted to the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), was opened up to the private sector.
According to a 2014 Glenn Greenwald article, "potentially sabotaging another country's hi-tech industries and their top companies has long been a sanctioned American strategy." The article was based on a leaked report issued from former U.S.
During preliminary hearings, Elvick denied his identity and argued that the court had no jurisdiction over him or his strawman.
After 24 hours, this is augmented with the contents of a packet labeled "Instant Life Eggs", containing more eggs, yeast, borax, soda, salt, some food, and sometimes a dye.
According to the Police Department at the University of Colorado, Boulder, it was found that most bicycle thefts involved bikes being unlocked, improperly locked, or locked with devices such as a lightweight cable or low-quality U-lock devices.
The jje phoneme is from the word for sister, "jie jie (姐姐)", which mirrors how Google's last syllable (歌) sounds like "ge ge (哥哥)" (brother).
They played a crucial part in temporarily inflating the market capitalization of energy traders such as Enron, CMS Energy, Reliant Energy, Dynegy and financial service provider Wirecard.
Other names include the paving scam, tarmacking, the asphalt scam, driveway fraud or similar variants.
The scandal, first uncovered by journalist Selvaggia Lucarelli, involves multiple investigations into Ferragni's charitable partnerships with millions of euros in alleged unjust profits identified.
He is normally a jovial character known for his ability to make wisecracks and his overall humble demeanor.
The Jerusalem Post further praised the show, though centered its praise on Eretz Nehederet much more generally.
Prevention Requiring scrap metal buyers to record the photo IDs of scrap metal sellers, and recording scrap metal transactions may reduce the rate of metal theft.
Unger was convicted of multiple counts of tax fraud and served approximately five years of an eight-year prison sentence.
Bear raid In a bear raid there is an attempt to push the price of a stock down by heavy selling or short selling.
The National White Collar Crime Center, also known as NW3C, is a congressionally funded non-profit corporation which trains state and local law enforcement agencies to combat emerging economic and cybercrime problems.
In 2002, Fossil signed a deal with Romag fasteners to use their magnetic fasteners for their handbags, which were both under Romag's patent and had trademarked elements.
Arrest Carrasquillo's home was raided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on the morning of November 27, 2019, seizing his cars, jewelry, computers, SD cards, televisions and the money in his bank account.
While receiving such packages may not necessarily indicate any greater problem, they could in some cases be indicative of a data breach.
However, the issuance of the message led to a great deal of public criticism by free-speech advocates.
When Fragile becomes Friable: Endemic Control Fraud as a Cause of Economic Stagnation and Collapse (PDF).
The long timings for the arrival of food products from Canada has been detrimental to the nation’s economy as agriculture constitutes 31.6 percent of total GDP.
The letter promised readers that the American Cancer Society had corporate donors who would donate three cents for every carbon copy of the campaign letter forwarded to a new person.
Following this report, the device was investigated by Trading Standards and found to be a scam and the matter had been referred to City of London Police Fraud Squad.
In 2015, she co-founded Pidgin with James Ramsden and Sam Herlihy, following on from their supper club, the Secret Larder.
The custom common in Africa, uncut diamonds tend to be the de facto standard currency of the illicit small arms trade.
This cumulative figure represents approximately 180 percent of the original CBI FIR reference amount of ₹5,383 crore (US$640 million).
Terrorist financing scenarios Gems as an untraceable currency and source of income for terrorists Following the September 11, 2001 attacks an allegation was made in The Wall Street Journal that tanzanite stones were being used as an untraceable currency and source of income for terrorists.
Details The embezzlement began ahead of the 2014 Maldivian parliamentary election, where funds from MMPRC were used to cover election costs and broker deals for votes in parliament.
However, so far a claim that "Túnel de Usera" was invented by the Francoist propaganda has not been advanced.
This usually includes the use of an accomplice who plays the part of an uninvolved (initially skeptical) third party, who later confirms the claims made by the con man.
This is equivalent to $200.70 million in present-day terms and was at the time the largest antitrust fine ever imposed.
In addition, use of the mails or interstate travel or communication in furtherance of a violation of state commercial bribery laws may be prosecutable in Federal court under the Travel Act.
Companies have used round-tripping to distort the market by establishing false revenue benchmarks, aiming to meet or beat the numbers put out by Wall Street stock analysts.
Screenshots from the forum, show various users on the forum offering to hack into Twitter accounts at US$2,000−3,000 each.
Later all 4 of them come face to face and Anand does not introduce Nikki as his sister to Janaki at which Nikki gets offended.
It wa released in North America in 2005, Japan in 2006 and PAL territories in 2007 by SouthPeak Interactive.
Mistreatment of members A prominent ex-member who has spoken out about the Scientology organization's mistreatment of members and ex-members is Leah Remini.
The Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of the Crime Branch of Odisha Police registered criminal cases against Sudipto Sen and Saradha Group.
Sobolev mixed the liquid with water and lemon flavouring agents at about 30% by volume, bottled the resulting liquid, attached fake labels of various well-known vodka brands, and distributed it through an underground network.
The subject of the movie are fraudulent racetrack touts, who, in particular, used to call people known to be in deep debt and give them false tips.
The new member paid a net fee of 69,800 yuan, and then returned the new person 19,000 yuan, the remaining 50,800 yuan, will undergo layer-by-layer exploitation.
One can prevent bicycle theft by avoiding using bicycles with quick release wheels, as these are easy for anyone to take off without the use of any tools.
Lam was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on 18 September 2024 in Miami, Florida.
Revolver (2005) – directed by Guy Ritchie; one of the main characters, Jake Green (Jason Statham), is a con artist, and the premise of the film is a con.
He also expressed his conviction that neither TOP 09 nor KDU-ČSL could leave the cabinet because they were on the brink of dissolution.
Japan was the only country classified as one of the ten major tax havens by the Tax Justice Network that was listed in Category A.
For example, a seller of goods or services from "Company A" who offers the purchasing manager of "Company B" a payment to his own account to help him secure a contract for Company B's continued business is engaging in a form of commercial bribery.
Her connections to the military were a huge factor in political and business power, and so its apparent military backing made the scheme seem legitimate.
The FDA Most Wanted Fugitives is a list of the top fugitives sought by the United States Food and Drug Administration's Office of Criminal Investigations (OCI).
External links Schneier on Security: Control fraud (He refers to a paper with a dead link; the paper is When Fragile becomes Friable.) Black, William K.
This source code is then modified or integrated into other software, possibly violating the original licence terms.
In the 2015 Danish European Union opt-out referendum, the Danish population rejected adoption of the 2014 market abuse directive (2014/57/EU) and much other legislation.
The proposition at the core of the scam was promoted by an Englishman named Howard Welsh and a native of Virginia named Lee Hope Thrasher.
A strap, usually in the form of a belt, is folded in half by the street hustler or mountebank, and then wound into a coil, forming two identical loops in the center of the coil—one the folded center of the strap, and the other its first fold.
Two of the supposed children had fake identities and one was much older than claimed (which Flanagan failed to detect).
According to the investigation's results, in 2014, Nguyễn Tuấn Tú (from Lâm Đồng) planned to build and develop a free online movie website to earn money from advertising.
Rates According to the International Crime Victim Survey (2000), 56% of bicycle thefts across 17 countries were reported to the police.
On 2 February 2023, amid speculation over the status of the game, Fntastic released new gameplay footage.
It was during this peak in January 2011 that SEBI finally prohibited Rose Valley Real Estate and Construction Limited from raising more funds, although by that point, Kundu had already diversified into various sectors.
Italian Competition Authority fine In summer 2023, the Italian Competition Authority announced that it had started an investigation against the manufacturer of the cakes, Ferragni, and her companies.
Due to her connections with the Royal Thai Air Force and Petroleum Authority of Thailand, the fund was able to sustain itself for a remarkably long time.
He joined the Conservative Party and at the 1924 general election was elected to the Parliament of the United Kingdom from the Nuneaton constituency in Warwickshire.
Impact Financial losses Chainalysis estimated that cryptocurrency fraud totaled about US$12.4 billion in 2024, and reported that pig-butchering scams grew year over year.
The letter also threatened another attack on protesters who plan to demonstrate against the Alternative for Germany party's conference in Cologne on 22 April.
Gift Card Scam: Someone has hacked into your close friend's email account, and you get a message from them asking for help buying gift cards.
Purpose This regulation establishes policy, responsibilities, and procedures for the recognition and prompt reporting of incidents of attempted or actual espionage, subversion, sabotage, and terrorism directed against the U.S.
In this case, the LSUC, which maintains and operates the Great Library at Osgoode Hall, engaged in two relevant behaviours.
See also Interwar France Straperlo, a 1935 scandal with one of its locations in San Sebastián that scandalized the Second Spanish Republic.
Filmmaker K G George, made this political satire, one of the best in Malayalam cinema, on a theme that involves the destruction of a bridge, shortly after its inauguration.
Vulnerable people will often think it's all right for people to walk all over [them], because that's what's happened to them the whole of their lives.
Siemens implemented new anti-corruption policies, including a comprehensive anti-corruption handbook, online tools for due diligence and compliance, a confidential communications channel for employees, and a corporate disciplinary committee.
Although the conviction was overturned on May 31, 2005, by the Supreme Court of the United States, the firm ceased performing audits and split into multiple entities.
In the Fred Saberhagen short story, "The Annihilation of Angkor Apeiron" a Berserker ship comes to grief after trying to find a nonexistent star system inserted into an encyclopedia to catch plagiarists.
Speakers are often given a fictional brand name, sometimes intentionally similar to a well-regarded speaker manufacturer in order to mislead the buyer.
Welsh and Thrasher allegedly received US$31,000,000 from about 900 people who believed themselves to be bona-fide investors in so-called "Living Your Sole Purpose" entities.
The scheme was first reported by David Marchant, the publisher of OffshoreAlert, a Miami-based newsletter.
In 2018, she and one of her associates were convicted of bank fraud, wire fraud and conspiracy to launder money; they tried to have their convictions overturned by claiming that because of their beliefs, they should not have been allowed by the court to proceed pro se.
As a result of abusive round trips, barter between publicly held companies has become discredited among professional investors.
Proposals to establish a single British airline, combining the assets of the BOAC and BEA, were first raised in 1953 as a result of difficulties in attempts by BOAC and BEA to negotiate air rights through the British colony of Cyprus.
To increase the mark's motivation to bet, they will also employ standard strategies such as having the dealer be slightly abrasive or rude, so there is even more reason to want to take his money.
This meant that in order to judge a suspected receiver, it was necessary to condemn the related thief first.
Lansdorp assumed all major components would be available in the aerospace market, and said Mars One had identified at least one potential supplier for each component of the mission.
§ 333 in a group of statutes in which the Government protects its interest in some private property which is "not a traditional property interest".
It represents artists including David Hockney, Damien Hirst and Tracey Emin, and its licensing customers include BBC, Christopher Kane, Phaidon, Netflix, Sky Arts, Shakespeare's Globe, Sony, Saatchi & Saatchi, Tate and UNIQLO.
Another often-seen example is "better than the leading brand", with a statistic attached; the "leading brand", however, is undefined.
Such visitors can gain a wide understanding of a person from examining their home, where tickets for the show may have been sent in advance.
Confirmation of how thief-taking and receiving were tightly connected is demonstrated by the career of Charles Hitchen, who was known as a thief-taker.
Shambhu Mukherjee leaped or was pushed to his death from a multi-storeyed building in Calcutta (the murder theory still holds sway in Calcutta although the police claim that he committed suicide).
Prevalence Album leaks have become increasingly common, with some record executives stating that, beginning in the late 2000s, most albums leak "as a matter of course", though many of these leaks occur shortly before the album's scheduled release and therefore have relatively little effect.
Serious Fraud Investigation Office and Income Tax Department: SFIO initiated corporate fraud probes; IT filed Black Money Act cases.
Sophisticated techniques used to launder money and finance terrorism add to the complexity of these issues.
The white van speaker scam is a scam sales technique in which a con artist makes a buyer believe they are getting a good price on home entertainment products.
Traders Magazine correspondent John Bates argues that by April 2015, traders can still manipulate and impact markets in spite of regulators and banks' new, improved monitoring of automated trade systems.
Pirated movie releases may be derived from cams, which have distinctly low quality; screener and workprint discs or digital distribution copies (DDC), telecine copies from analog reels, video on demand (VOD) or TV recordings, and DVD and Blu-ray rips.
Based in Evansville, Indiana, Television Preview is a division of RSC the Quality Measurement Company, a member of the ArsGroup.
They display products in their original boxes and avoid elaborate interiors and extensive advertising costs, akin to a supermarket model originating from Germany.
The UC is accused of engaging in what is locally termed "spiritual sales" (Japanese: 霊感商法, romanized: reikan shōhō).
Copyright Act of 1976 No Electronic Theft Act of 1997 The No Electronic Theft (NET) Act was enacted by the U.S.
27(2)(e), parallel importation is secondary infringement where the parallel importer is an assignee.
Women who became pregnant have stated that they had been "coercively persuaded" to undergo abortions in order to remain in the Sea Org.
Although fraudulent transfer law originally evolved in the context of a relatively simple agrarian economy, it is now widely used to challenge complex modern financial transactions such as leveraged buyouts.
This will include asking for the victim's resume as well as assurances that a phone interview will be the "next step in the hiring process".
Suit by later jackpot winner On February 4, 2016, the Iowa Lottery and the MUSL were sued by Larry Dawson, who won a $6 million Hot Lotto jackpot several months after the rigged draw.
In 2020, the Japan Cartoonists Association issued a joint statement with Shuppan Koho Center (出版広報センター) in favor of revising the Japanese copyright law to make it illegal to download pirated materials in order to protect young artists from piracy.
In March 2016, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) filed a complaint with the IRS about the potentially illegal donation.
An automated message says "that someone has ordered a free medical alert system for you, and this call is to confirm shipping instructions" before the call is transferred to a live operator who requests the elderly patient's credit card and identity card numbers.
In April 2017, in moved to a 4,500 sq ft (420 m2) two-story flagship space in Beverly Hills, designed by wHY.
However, the federal mail and wire fraud statutes can be used to prosecute commercial bribery as a "scheme or artifice to defraud" if the mail or interstate wire facilities are used.
Federal agents posed as university officials and worked with the 21 arrested individuals, who were brokers who recruited international students, mostly from China and India, to go to UNNJ.
Australia A 2020 report by Unions NSW found that more than 3,000 foreign-language job ads offered illegally lower wages.
However the action was deemed to be an act of ambush marketing by FIFA as Swinkels Family Brewers, which was not a corporate sponsor, had not paid any money to be an official event partner.
The CME group was described as being in a "massively conflicted" position as they make huge profits from HFT (high frequency trading) and algorithmic trading.
Perpetrator The perpetrator of the scam is known to impersonate female industry executives, including Amy Pascal, Deborah Snyder, Wendi Deng Murdoch, Kathleen Kennedy, and others.
The two lawsuits are the first time that two different companies claiming the intellectual-property rights of the same movie are each suing the same alleged 5,865 BitTorrent downloaders.
Ultimately, he decides to turn himself over to the authorities after his grandmother and mother appear in his dream.
Also, keeping in view the scene of economic offences, the Bureau is required to collect information and provide periodical and special reports to the concerned authorities; 10.
The engendered doubt and uncertainty is what allows hustling to succeed, with the "faults" being dropped when a significant amount of money is at stake.
Similarly, trap streets may be included in a map, or invented phone numbers in a telephone directory.
It is usually punishable as a felony under state law, depending on circumstances, but only 36 states have laws specifically prohibiting commercial bribery.
A warehouse bank account is a bank account at a regular commercial bank in which all clients’ funds are commingled or pooled, for the purpose of concealing the client's ownership of the funds.
Consequence The Embezzlement Act 1799 — prompted by the case — was enacted before the end of the year to forbid the fraudulent conversion of money or property that an employee receives for their employer.
The company has been known to make frequent, repeated calls, in the event no one at the participant's number answers, or if they reach an answering machine.
Prohibition of financial exploitation of position The illustrative actions (facts) of the case before the court amounted to acting as an agent of another party, without their express or lawfully implied permission.
According to the investigation, The "free workshops" are merely a selling ground for the Defendant Trump U's 3-day seminars and offer little useable content.
On March 31, 2021, Gina Champion-Cain was sentenced to 15 Years for a $350 million+ ponzi scheme and obstruction of justice, the largest woman-run Ponzi scheme in American history.
Likewise, advertising a sale while intending to stock a limited amount of, and thereby sell out, a loss-leading item advertised is legal in the United States.
In an interview with The Sunday Times, Coull apologised for how the event turned out, saying he would accept responsibility.
The majority opinion was written by Justice Neil Gorsuch and joined by all but Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who wrote her own opinion that concurred with the judgement.
However, the customer may not receive the product; they may be billed for things they did not want; they may be unable to call the company to authorize a return; they may not be refunded an item's shipping and handling costs, or they may have to pay for return shipping.
Previously, under the 1909 statute, a person was criminally liable for copyright infringement if he or she committed the infringement "wilfully" and "for profit".
In a study, researchers concluded that cognitive reflection and sensation-seeking tendencies are modest but significant predictors of susceptibility to phishing.
The terms are often no different from the brand names used by legitimate products and serve the same function.
In 2015, Dowa Holdings established Dowa Metals & Mining America, starting their operations at a refinery in Burlington, New Jersey, some time after.
It collects and distributes royalties to visual artists and their beneficiaries, and negotiates licensing agreements between them and third parties, including Tate, Penguin, Warner Music Group and Alexander McQueen.
In response, Roosevelt appointed Thurman Arnold and other "trustbusting" lawyers to serve in the Justice Department's Antitrust Division, which had been established in 1919.
The Day Before was a multiplayer survival horror extraction shooter video game developed by Fntastic and published by Mytona.
In total, Teo was to serve 24 years in prison, with effect from the date of his arrest, though the sentence may possibly be reduced by one-third due to good behaviour.
History be2 was founded as a German matchmaking service in 2004 by online entrepreneur Robert Wuttke and Andreas Etten.
Subsequent investigations led to the discovery of a company with two subsidiaries dedicated to the international distribution of adulterated olive oil, one Spanish and the other Italian.
Lawsuit In July 2022, Japanese publishers Shogakukan, Shueisha and Kadokawa filed a lawsuit against the site for ¥1.9 billion (2022) (US$14.45 million) at the Tokyo District Court.
On September 29, 2020, the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture said it had so far received 36 complaints about unsolicited seeds.
Law enforcement subsequently ordered the "freezing" of the Bitcoin by instructing exchanges to prevent any further liquidation.
Money laundering is the process where cash raised from criminal activities is made to look legitimate for re-integration into the financial system, whereas terrorism financing cares little about the source of the funds, but it is what the funds are to be used for that defines its scope.
To showcase its specialty in art and to provide a venue for similar collectors and vendors, the auction house began hosting a gathering for collectors consisting of an antique show and auction in 1991.
Nevertheless, there have also been arguments by scholars for reducing the severity of criminal copyright infringement penalties since such penalties could result in monopolistic profits for the copyright owner.
Historically known as a "patsy", an insider can be induced, willingly or under duress, to provide information.
The fraudulent funding request caused National City Bank to incur a loss of $12,744,678.16." See also Tax avoidance and tax evasion Warehouse line of credit == References ==
RetSpan was a French anti-copyright infringement organisation that attempted to shut down SuprNova for copyright violations in 2004.
In Shakespeare: An Anthology of Criticism and Theory, 1945-2000, Paul Werstine asserts that the theory has "yet to be empirically validated with reference to any extant Shakespeare quarto" and that "there is no documentary evidence that any actor ever memorially reconstructed a play".
The second con artist claims that he needs to transport a large amount of money to a location across town immediately but cannot get there because of his injury, and begs one of the two men to go.
Origin Google in Chinese is 谷歌 (pinyin: Gǔgē), a transcription without regard to its meaning of "valley song".
Starting in 2008, visitors to the Grokster website (www.grokster.com) encountered this message: "YOUR IP address [...] HAS BEEN LOGGED.
The only exceptions were Peter Dinklage and Sean Bean, whom the writers wanted from the start; they were announced as joining the pilot in 2009.
Limiting factors in the number of remotely located satellite receivers are the network latency and the period between the updated keys and the ability of the card client's receiver to use the decrypted key stream.
Issues surrounding P2P software One of the largest issues with P2P software is the public assumption that users use these programs strictly for illegal sharing of copyrighted files.
The electrification portfolio is dedicated to grid resilience and efficiency, encompassing grid simulation, operation control software, power-system automation and protection, and medium to low voltage switchgear.
Suppression of criticism YouTube creators have reported receiving copyright strikes on videos critical of corporate products.
The archetypical grifter working the scam is a fortune teller who announces that the mark is suffering from a curse that their magic can relieve, while threatening dire consequences if the curse is not lifted.
An ambitious man, Natesan's ostentatious lifestyle, his cars, and his plush office in Chennai's up-market Royapettah area were frequently cited by the media as examples of his lavish tastes.
D-ABAY was the only aircraft was shown at an airshow briefly where Elbeflug had options for two Transall C-160 aircraft.
At the time the SEC considered the fraud to be "one of the largest Ponzi schemes in history." In late 1994, the European Kings Club collapsed, with ensuing losses of about $1.1 billion.
On 25 February 2014, Orange revealed it was in discussions with Microsoft about a deal that could see Dailymotion extend into the US market.
"He will have the right to standardize the same, which will mean virtually a standardization of the price.
American pseudolegal theorists tend to reinterpret the Constitution of the United States through a selective reading of legal dictionaries, notably an obsolete version of Black's Law Dictionary.
It implicated former president Abdulla Yameen, who was charged with corruption and money laundering in 2019 in relation to the deals.
Willful violators can face fines up to $10,000 upon their first conviction with imprisonment resulting from future convictions.
This can include plagiarism of work or to make use of any information in breach of any duty of confidentiality associated with the review of manuscripts or grant applications.
Fugitive individuals Two key figures remain at large with active international warrants: According to Russian prosecutorial documents, both fugitives face charges under Criminal Code Article 210, Part 3 (criminal organisation leadership) and Article 159, Part 4 (large-scale fraud).
Price-fixing scandal AGC Flat Glass Europe (Glaverbel) is one of the four glass manufacturers who were fined a total of 486.9 million euros ($717.5 million; £348.2m) by the European Commission on 28 November 2007, for illegally co-coordinating price rises.
It was unusual as there was supposed to be one payment made per crew member on that day, and the bank accounts were under the name of Teo Cheng Kiat.
In the 1997 publication Developing a Product, Lego explicitly refers to the origin of the building blocks: Automatic Binding Bricks [...] were inspired by a couple of British plastic building bricks by the Kiddicraft company and sold only in Britain.
Most of these companies did not have adequate crop insurance and none of them were able to live up to their promises.
In 2005, money laundering within the financial industry in the UK was believed to amount to £25bn a year.
As regulators and leading national media outlets became aware of such pool tactics, the pools switched to manipulating local media or spreading rumors through other grassroots mechanisms.
Such misdeeds typically involve complex methods for misusing or misdirecting funds, overstating revenues, understating expenses, overstating the value of corporate assets, or underreporting the existence of liabilities; these can be detected either manually or by means of deep learning.
In her own opinion, Justice Sotomayor cautioned on the reliance on the majority's use of the mens rea standards, as their decision could cause those truly unaware of infringement of trademark to be deemed willful, though agreed with the application in the specific case for Romag and Fossil.
In publicity regarding mate crime, Trafford Clinical Commissioning Group states: Many vulnerable adults have few friends, and for some vulnerable people, having any friends is better than no friends at all.
Controversies The journalist Troels Jørgensen from TV station DR has rated be2's matching system as flawed.
Hall stated that the device could be "helpful" and "provide protection" due to a "wearable holographic nano-layer catalyser".
To get the process started, the scammer asked for a few sheets of the company's letterhead, bank account numbers, and other personal information.
In between lies the tiny rocky land Petit Cay, which represents the continuation of the north-western tip of the island.
Other photographers such as Henry Wu and Zornitsa Shahanska were caught up in the scam and posted about their experience online.
Appeals against monetary sanctions On October 17, 2013, Brett Gibbs offered a sworn statement, an unsworn motion, and alleged documents and claims concerning Prenda and its principals as part of an appeal against his sanction.
She warned that such fraudulent news websites were a force increasing the power of populist extremism.
Wildly different profiles were matched to exactly the same potential partners in a test performed for consumer rights programme Kontant.
Test: Whether the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.
Accounting for how a large sum of money handed to a targeted individual disappears Checking to see if a corrupt individual has had any sudden and unexplained windfalls.
Operation Crucible is a police-led, multi-agency investigation into the organised theft and unlawful trade of metal in England and Wales.
The Swedish photographer Håkan Moberg sued the Delaware company 33T, LLC over copyright infringement over unauthorised use of photos he published on a German website in 2004.
However, there have been a number of occasions when persons have failed to give the necessary attribution and attempted to pass off material from Wikipedia as their own work.
He said he was once sent to a mental health institution for his guardian to gain access to prescription narcotics to sell.
The woman (scammer) asks the man to send money, for example, for the purposes of purchasing an airline ticket or a visa they have no intention of buying.
Metallica traced the leak to a file on Napster's peer-to-peer file-sharing network, where the band's entire catalogue was available for free download.
We started getting calls from different retail stores that people were buying two or three packs—that's the most you can buy—and they went to one store, they bought three, they went to another store, bought three.
Unknown to them however, Chia was secretly leading a double life as a high-rolling hustler, and he secretly owned expensive cars, luxury apartments, and had a mistress half his age.
The Federal Investigation Agency carried out an inquiry into the incident, and identified the factory of Efroze Chemicals in Karachi as the producer of the Isotab tablets contaminated with pyrimethamine.
The executive was turned into a key informant for the FBI and an operative working with the FBI against Salyer.
Energy power systems, doing jobs like monitoring power grids or water flow, once isolated from the other computer networks, were now being connected to the internet, leaving them more vulnerable, having historically few built-in security features.
While there, she realised that she preferred to cook, and appeared on the BBC television series MasterChef on a dare.
Quote stuffing Quote stuffing is made possible by high-frequency trading programs that can execute market actions with incredible speed.
Novel and film In 1996 the Swedish novelist Jacques Werup adapted her life in his novel Den ofullbordade himlen ("The Imperfect Sky").
He sortied in command of 1st Division of the 'Young Guard' under fire, was wounded by grapeshot in the right leg and his horse was killed under him by five 'biscaïen' (large musket shots), but he remained on the battlefield until midnight despite the pain of his wounds.
They initially reported that his parachute had been sabotaged, with the risers (fabric connectors between the harness and lines) for his reserve parachute having been deliberately cut with a hook knife.
After previously running for Nike, on November 25, 2014, it was announced that he had signed with Hoka One One.
The conviction of OLL Ltd was the first example of a successful corporate manslaughter prosecution in the United Kingdom.
The Dughlat historian Mirza Muhammad Haidar characterized Saniz Mirza as a "violent, but generous man".
Kayode won the silver medal in 4 × 100 m relay at the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, together with teammates Chidi Imoh, Olapade Adeniken and Davidson Ezinwa.
He followed that up with a pair of strong finishes at the World Cross Country Championships the next year.
Matylda Vilma Pálfyová (11 March 1912 – 23 September 1944) was a Slovak gymnast who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics, helping her team to a silver medal.
Hugh Weir reported to the Australian Olympic Federation that Because Ross Milne was only seventeen years of age, the question was raised at the [Innsbruck] IOC meeting as to whether inexperienced people were being sent to compete in ...
29 March 1912), married on 4 July 1863 Sir William Earle Welby-Gregory, 4th Baronet He died in 1844 of the effects of a hunting accident suffered earlier in life.
At that time he was elected Sports Secretary of Haji Muhammad Muhsin Hall student council on behalf of Bangladesh Chhatra League.
Harry died in 1943 after drowning in the Murray River attempting to retrieve a duck he had just shot.
Kayode was an All-American sprinter for the BYU Cougars track and field team, placing runner-up in the 200 metres at the 1993 NCAA Division I Outdoor Track and Field Championships.
Deaths of active drivers This is a list of notable deaths in NASCAR and untimely deaths of professional NASCAR drivers.
The aquatic area used was not constructed for competitive swimming, and the water was reportedly contaminated, which led to health risks for a few athletes, including Bratton and his teammate George Van Cleaf.
1851–1897) was an American inventor, credited with introducing electric motors for the purpose of marine propulsion.
Bombing Centennial Olympic Park was designed as the "town square" of the Olympics, and thousands of spectators had gathered for a late concert by the band Jack Mack and the Heart Attack.
In 667, Saborios was the governing general (strategos) of the theme of the Armeniacs, covering the northeastern part of Byzantine Anatolia.
As a junior, Fagernes competed on top national level in cycling, athletics, and cross country skiing, before deciding to focus on javelin.
Wellman, Busby Berkeley and William Dieterle, his film career ended with his death on October 30, 1935, one week before his 32nd birthday, from a skull fracture sustained in a polo accident that had occurred three days earlier.
Lou Gehrig - New York Yankees's first baseman who was forced into retirement after being diagnosed with ALS, he would ultimately die from the disease, two years later in 1941.
About 30 boats searched for the jumpers along the axis from Huron to Vermilion, but efforts were hampered by the cold and strong winds.
Following Cocking's death parachuting became unpopular, and was confined to carnival and circus acts until the late 19th century, when developments such as the harness and breakaway chutes made it safer.
A stocky right-handed wicketkeeper-batsman, Sen first toured with the Indian team in 1947–48 in Australia where he was to act as the reserve keeper to Jenni Irani.
The Foothills Cuisine of Blackberry Farm: Recipes and Wisdom from Our Artisans, Chefs, and Smoky Mountain Ancestors with Marah Stets, Clarkson Potter, New York (2012).
Around 4,500 players brought multiple lawsuits against the NFL alleging that it had covered up a growing body of medical evidence about the preponderance of head-trauma related CTE in ex-NFL players, and some testimonials have come in that context.
Creighton, who had thus far played primarily in the infield, was brought on as a substitute pitcher.
Princess Alicia of Bourbon-Parma (13 November 1917 – 28 March 2017); she married Infante Alfonso, Duke of Calabria, on 16 April 1936.
Achievements Personal bests 3000 metres – 8:06.56 (2002) 5000 metres – 12:54.15 (2004) 10,000 metres – 27:12.22 (2005) Marathon – 2:08:46 (2006) References Dejene Berhanu at World Athletics Evans, Hilary; Gjerde, Arild; Heijmans, Jeroen; Mallon, Bill; et al.
The limited-rules event was billed as a "Ukraine Against the World" contest and drew about 4,000 spectators.
Edith Maud Cook (1 September 1878 – 14 July 1910), was an early British parachutist, balloonist, and aviator, recognized as Britain's first female pilot.
Achievements External links Interview with Franziska Rochat-Moser about her life growing up References Evans, Hilary; Gjerde, Arild; Heijmans, Jeroen; Mallon, Bill; et al.
However, as Chesham was serving in South Africa, Lord Churchill was appointed to act as Master of the Buckhounds in his absence.
In 1926 he settled in the city of Taganrog on Shevchenko street 111, where he founded The Taganrog Animal Theater of Anatoly Durov.
Bochatay was the third athlete to die at a Winter Olympics, after British luger Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski and Australian skier Ross Milne, who both died at Innsbruck 1964.
Lemp was elected mayor in April 1927 but was seriously injured in a polo accident shortly thereafter.
dead, Cricinfo, 4 December 2004 Fulham FC article on Andy Ducat Scorecard for his final match – 29 not out
His injuries were three broken vertebrae, two broken femurs, a broken collarbone, a punctured lung, and a smashed pelvis.
John Patrick McSherry (September 11, 1944 – April 1, 1996) was an American umpire in Major League Baseball who worked in the National League from 1971 until his death.
In 2002, he was elected to the Verkhovna Rada after winning a single-member districts seat as a member of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine in Manevychi.
The oldest of twelve children, Harry was recruited to Carlton by Jack Worrall and made his debut in Round 11, 1906, against Collingwood at Princes Park.
In 1835, Peralta participated in the Costa Rican civil war, the Guerra de la Liga (English: "War of the League") against Head of State Braulio Carrillo Colina.
That would remain his last victory on the track, because George Saling was killed in a car accident in Missouri six months after the Olympic Games, aged only 23.
He had a personal best of 13:45.37 minutes in the 5000 metres, achieved in March 2002 in Bellville, and 28:24.61 minutes in the 10,000 metres, achieved in March 2002 in Port Elizabeth.
FIS Ski Jumping World Cup, FIS Ski Jumping Continental Cup, FIS Nordic World Ski Championships, and the Olympic Games), though many ski jumpers have died during practice or in national events (nb:Skader og dødsulykker i skihopping).
Douglas Dedge (June 18, 1966 – March 18, 1998) was an American mixed martial artist who was the first known American competitor to be fatally injured in an MMA fight and the first death in the modern era of professional MMA.
The race developed into a thriller, with fellow Canadian runner Édouard Fabre matching Duffy's pace throughout.
Upshaw attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools where he averaged 24 points, 12 rebounds and seven assists as a junior in 2008, when he was named the most valuable player (MVP) of the Independent School League.
He successfully rode his last bull for the full eight seconds, and rode him an additional eight seconds in memory of Frost.
McConkey was known for combining BASE jumping with skiing, as seen in such feats as skiing into a BASE jump off the Eiger.
Robert Cocking (1776 – 24 July 1837) was a British watercolour artist who died in the first known fatal parachute accident.
A third tradition holds that two pioneers from Kentucky who were being held captive by Indians near Detroit, Michigan saw a man enter the Indian camp.
Bertil Gustafsson Uggla (19 August 1890 – 29 September 1945) was a Swedish officer, track and field athlete, modern pentathlete, and fencer.
In 1880, he was part of the Oxford University team that reached the FA Cup Final, where they met the previous year's losing finalists, Clapham Rovers.
Foley had nine DGA Award nominations and 21 Emmy nominations—a record for a single person working on a variety series.
According to some British reports, Fandiño had tripped on his cape, and perhaps even fallen, leaving him vulnerable to the goring.
Then Pálfyová worked in Košice as a correspondent from the age of 18, between 1934 and 1937 at Východoslovenské elektrárne, úč.
He died at Chertsey, Surrey, on 3 August 1878, after suffering a brain injury during a cricket match.
He produced and directed all 72 episodes of Live on Letterman including concerts with The Black Keys, The Killers, Adele, Phoenix, Taylor Swift, and Tim McGraw.
New York State boxing authorities were criticized for giving Paret clearance to fight just several months after the Fullmer fight.
Post World War I On 22 April 1919, Gerrard relinquished his posting as acting major and reverted to the rank of captain.
Borcke commanded the Prussian 9th Infantry Brigade of the Third Corps during the Hundred Days Campaign against Napoleon and fought in the battle of Ligny and was then the commander of the Fortress of Luxembourg in 1815.
One of his sons, Michael, has written a memoir, The Blue Cabin (2006), about his move to the family's former holiday house on the island of Islandmore on Strangford Lough.
Richard Alfred Weiss (September 18, 1963 – June 25, 1997), known as Rich Weiss, was a West German-born, American slalom kayaker who competed from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s.
Following the 2007 election, Hickey remained in cabinet as Minister of Labrador Affairs, but lost the transportation portfolio.
In return, Arghun offered to return Jerusalem to the Christians, once it was re-captured from the Muslims.
In 2007 Hickstead and Eric Lamaze won the coveted $1Million CN International at the Spruce Meadows "Masters" Archived 2011-11-21 at the Wayback Machine Tournament in Calgary, Alberta (Canada).
Brian Faulkner was educated initially at Elm Park preparatory school, Killylea, County Armagh, but at 14 was sent to the Church of Ireland-affiliated St Columba's College at Rathfarnham in Dublin, although Faulkner was Presbyterian.
1975) Westenholz, who lived at Little Blakesware, Hertfordshire, died at age 60 in a skiing accident on 9 March 2006.
His son, Abd al-Rahman ibn Mu'awiya, was the founder of the Emirate of Córdoba and the Umayyad line of al-Andalus.
Zrinski, Hungarian: Zrínyi Miklós; 5 January 1620 – 18 November 1664) was a Croatian and Hungarian military leader, statesman and poet.
In Detroit, Walker was reunited with former high school teammate Bobby Layne who the Lions acquired by trade in April 1950.
The NFL has implemented rule changes to reduce collisions to the head and has sought to improve football helmet design.
That year, there were five rider fatalities as a result of falls in the United Kingdom alone, four of which resulted from rotational falls.
In December 1836, President Sam Houston appointed Scurry as district attorney of the First Judicial District.
Notes External links Max Smith's playing statistics from AFL Tables Max Smith at AustralianFootball.com
Rankings During his career, Howard was ranked among the top jumpers in the US by Track and Field News.
Written works Klinische Beobachtungen aus der Augenheilanstalt in Wiesbaden (with Edwin Theodor Saemisch and Arnold Pagenstecher).
Lawrence Hospital, a short distance from the Polo Grounds, where he was diagnosed with a depressed skull fracture.
At the end of the women's marathon of the Paralympics, on 8 September, the organising committee held a minute of applause in her honour.
Disappearance On the morning of 6 December 1971, Major Mostaq, the director of Al-Badr forces, released Miraj from Dhaka Central Jail and took him in a jeep.
He is known to have performed exhibition jumps in Germany (Berlin and Bremen) and Russia (Moscow, Saint Petersburg).
I didn't hurt it," he said, though rope grooves in the soft sandstone were later found, possibly created or enhanced by the professional photographers Potter brought along to publicize the climb.
The same year, he was inducted in 51st Paratrooper Division, Airborne Corps, and from there, he was selected for the Special Service Group (SSG).
Estonia Erich Altosaar – though better known as a basketball player, he played for Kalev when they won the 1930 Estonian Football Championship.
Their consensus view is that the only thing that can definitely be said about the origin of cricket is that its earliest record is in a late 16th-century court case in Surrey which proves it was played by children in southeast England in the middle of that century.
But the king would hear nothing less than conquering the capital Ava (Inwa), and the court ultimately agreed to a full scale invasion.
By a royal decree of 19 March 2004, Prince Friso was granted the surname 'Van Oranje-Nassau van Amsberg', the hereditary noble predicate 'Jonkheer (Jonkvrouw) van Amsberg and the hereditary title 'Count of Orange-Nassau', to take effect upon his marriage.
Career Mützelburg joined the Reichsmarine of the Weimar Republic on 1 April 1932 as member of "Crew 32" (the incoming class of 1932).
The organisers eventually decided to temporarily suspend the remaining racing events following the fatal crash.
He accomplished the world record feat in front of dozens of spectators on January 25, 2006, plunging headfirst into the snow upon landing and having to be extricated by friends.
In his obituary, Saad Shafqat profiled Wasim Raja as a cult batting figure defined by a "relaxed attack" style, carefree demeanour, open-collared 1970s flair, and memorable off-side strokeplay, who valued entertainment as much as accumulation.
Dumas noted the warm temperature: "If the boys stick their nose in a 'topette' [bag of drugs] today, we could have a death on our hands".
Sometimes, the deaths came during competition or practice, while other times deaths occurred due to road accidents or other non-sports-related reasons.
He soon died of his wounds; upon his death Dost Muhammad came down to Yarkand and demanded Saniz Mirza's widow named Jamal Agha, whom he married upon her surrender.
Cocking spent many years developing his improved parachute, based on Cayley's design, which consisted of an inverted cone 107 feet (32.61 m) in circumference connected by three hoops.
Kipyegon Bett (1 February 1998 – 6 October 2024) was a Kenyan middle-distance runner specialising in the 800 metres.
Peranius (Georgian: პერანი, romanized: p'erani) was a Georgian prince from Iberia and a military commander in Roman (Byzantine) service.
After retiring from football, Griffiths kept active as a district cricketer and spent some time with the St Kilda Cricket Club.
On December 13, 1906, Stuart had a letter published in the Montreal Star that detailed his problems with the IPHL.
Klouček joined Orli Znojmo in the Erste Bank Eishockey Liga after previously playing in the Slovak Extraliga with HC Kosice.
Prior to the Olympics, he had won three national marathon championships in Portugal, where he represented S.L.
John (DStJ) in July 1901, and in December the same year received the decoration of the Royal Red Cross (RRC) for her services with the Imperial Yeomanry Hospital during the Boer War.
He was called into the senior team as part of the 30-man squad for the 2017 African Cup of Nations but was dropped from the 23-man squad.
He is remembered for introducing a surgical practice known as intracapsular cataract extraction, and in 1862 he introduced yellow Präcipitatsalbe (precipitate salve) as an eye ointment.
In popular culture Harry Turtledove, a historian noted for his speculative fiction based on alternative history, has written several series set in a place called Videssos, which is a thinly disguised Byzantine Empire.
His father, a farmer who had served as a private in the Australian Imperial Force during the First World War, died before Colin's birth.
To secure their releases Valdemar II had to acknowledge the break away territories in Germany, pay 44,000 silver marks, sign a promise not to seek revenge on Count Henry and send his son Erik to prison instead.
The hotel survived into the early twentieth century though was sold by the Jones family upon the premature death of the younger Cobb in the 1890s.
It was not considered controversial to compliment a pitcher with the caveat that he "warn't no Creighton." For years following his death, the Excelsiors' program included a portrait of their club with Creighton, shrouded in black, featured prominently in the center.
In April 1910 he set the official World Airspeed Record of 48.186 miles per hour (77.548 km/h) in his Antoinette VII.
Career statistics Regular season and playoffs References External links Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database
After deciding to enter the 2016 NBA Development League Draft, Upshaw was selected in the fourth round by the Grand Rapids Drive.
Early death Three months following the 1904 Olympics, Bratton died on December 3, 1904 of typhoid fever and peritonitis at Chicago's Auditorium Hotel.
He acquired a love of the country, particular horses and fox hunting, from his first wife, and became a keen follower of the Pytchley Hunt, in Northamptonshire.
Burke was a known promoter of the superpipe skiing event, working to have it added to the Olympic program.
Gray was born in Charlotteville, Ontario, Canada, and attended North Tonawanda High School in North Tonawanda, New York, from which he graduated in 1906.
On 13 July 2023, Dwamena scored his first two goals in European competitions, scoring a brace for Egnatia in a 4–4 draw with FC Ararat-Armenia in a UEFA Conference League match.
A month later, on 15 June 1918, after two years of combat, Nardini rounded out his list with a solo victory over another Albatros D.III.
On 26 June 2012, Batman was killed in a car crash at Marrakai, southeast of Darwin, Northern Territory.
The troops of the Bishop made every effort to overrun Heerenveen, but they were stopped every time and could do nothing but plunder the defenceless countrymen, until on 1 September they were forced to retreat, without having accomplished anything of importance.
Before the race, he had supposedly said: "Either I win or I die." The following weekend, a memorial service for Lázaro was attended by 23,000 people at the Olympic Stadium.
Swimmers and water polo players, and several fellow 1904 Olympic water polo medalists including Joe Ruddy, L.
Death Torrence was found dead in a swimming pool in Scottsdale, Arizona, on August 28, 2017, at the age of 31.
Vakhtang, serving to the shah as a prefect of Qazvin and having the example of his brother before him, was reluctant.
On 2 November, he was caught by the Pakistan army while planting dynamite on the Baniajuri bridge on the Dhaka-Aricha highway.
On his eight patrols in the Atlantic, the US east coast, and the Caribbean Sea, he sank 19 ships for a total of 81,961 gross register tons (GRT), and damaged three more (17,052 GRT).
Taking advantage of the absence of many soldiers of the other themes with Constans in Sicily, Saborios launched a revolt in late 667.
Sigismund of Luxembourg came to Buda and persuaded the queen mother to give her consent to his marriage to Mary.
Another hostile scout was then attacked by pilot, end-on, and received a long burst at very close range, the enemy going down in a spin, but apparently righting himself lower down.
Al-Afdal was exiled to Salkhad, while Al-Aziz was proclaimed supreme overlord of the Ayyubid Empire.
Donoso was previously married to and had two children (singer Amber Donoso and model Olivia Donoso) with UK model Lisa Butcher.
International reactions King Hussein of Jordan, the only leader of an Arab country to denounce the attack publicly, called it a "savage crime against civilization ...
In one such show in Grenaa on 30 August 1931, the parachute failed to open and she fell to her death.
Count Henry demanded that Denmark surrender the land conquered in Holstein 20 years ago and become a vassal of the Holy Roman Emperor for father and son to be released.
Vakhushti makes David the father of George, king of Kakheti, whom he differentiates from George VIII, Demetrius's younger brother, at first king of Georgia and then king of Kakheti.
While McSherry did not eject anyone directly (home plate umpire Steve Rippley did), he ordered the benches cleared and all reserve players back to their dressing rooms in the ninth inning.
The couple bought the property, located in the foothills of the Great Smoky Mountains, in December 1976 and ran it as a small country inn.
While at Georgia, he was part of the team that won the 1942 Orange Bowl, which was Georgia's first bowl appearance and first win.
Club career Born in Brazzaville, Congo, Malonga played professionally for MSP Batna in the Algerian Championnat National, before joining AS Contres of the French Division Honneur in 2010.
In 1898, Johnston enlisted in the United States Army to fight in the Spanish–American War, serving in Cuba with the 1st U.S.
Historian Shaun Fitzroy Tougher cites a history written by George the Monk that uses the Greek word pothos to describe Basil's relationship with Michael, a word which had historically been used in some Greek Christian sources to describe the desire between a wife and a husband.
The piece describes Raja’s instinct to dominate from the outset and his dazzling left-handed strokeplay, high backlift powering fierce square-cuts, cover drives, pulls and hooks, contrasting his power with a lean, wiry build.
Early career During his stay in Milan he met with many artists and being a regular visitor to their workshops he discovered his love for painting.
In July he took the silver medal at the 2009 South American Junior Championships in Athletics and then won the gold medal in the 2009 Pan American Junior Athletics Championships, throwing a new age-15 world best of 69.84m with the men's 800 gram implement.
Van Doren dropped from a height of more than 2 miles (3.2 km) landing in a garden in the town of Opglabbeek.
Already 200 enemies had been shot down, and that place would undoubtedly have been conquered, if the Bishop had not obtained a hasty release of 2000 men from Kampen and Zwolle.
Death Abderrahim Goumri died on 19 January 2013 in a car crash in Temara, Morocco, while en route to Rabat.
His personal best throw in the shot put was 20.72 metres, a French national record, achieved in May 2008 in Versailles.
They were doing what Ed liked best, skiing powder snow at Monarch Ski Area near Salida, Colorado, when he suffered a heart attack at the high altitude.
He made an attempt at the record that fall at the Silicon Valley Turkey Trot, but he finished with a time of 13:33, 9 seconds shy of the 13:24 record.
See also List of fatalities while playing cricket References External links Andy Ducat at ESPNcricinfo Not out ...
At city marathons, Syster finished fifth in the 2002 London Marathon, and won the Beijing Marathon the following year.
On 26 June 2003, Cameroon faced Colombia in the semi-final, held at the Stade de Gerland in Lyon, France.
The plane then went into a spin and crashed into the water about 150 feet (46 m) beyond the end of the runway.
He finished fifth in the 2004 Olympic Trials, falling short in his attempt to make the Olympic team for the third time.
Cocking was in a basket which hung below the parachute which in turn hung below the basket of the balloon.
The Chandela ruler Paramardi initiated negotiations with Aibak but died before a treaty could be finalized.
Representing the Central YMCA, Duffy came in second in the 1911 Ward Marathon, a 20-mile (32 km) event in Toronto.
A legal deposition from Harrod's sister claims that Harrod came to live with her following his disappearance in Kentucky.
While preparing to receive the next ball, Abdul Aziz fell to the ground and never regained consciousness, dying en route to the hospital.
Niaré competed at the 2001 World Championships, the 2006 European Championships, the 2007 World Championships, the 2008 Olympic Games and the 2009 World Championships without reaching the final.
See also List of historical horses References External links Eric Lamaze Archived 2008-08-22 at the Wayback Machine at Olympic.ca Hickstead at Torrey Pines Stable Trinity Chinner EMG
Soon Nur al-Din demanded the city be handed over to him, and Ayyub and Shirkuh negotiated its surrender in 1154.
World War I During World War I Weiler served in France as a member of the 131st Field Artillery Regiment, a unit of the 36th Infantry Division.
Career Zhang won the 2024 Dutch Junior International beating fellow Chinese player Hu Zhean 21–10, 11–21, 13–21.
Coaching career Besides playing goalkeeper he also coached the Feminine football club Entente Gévaudan.
International career Malonga made a full international debut for Congo on 14 November 2009 in a friendly against Angola, for his only international appearance.
Marriage and family On 25 May 1903 at Vienna, Elias married Archduchess Maria Anna of Austria (1882–1940), daughter of Archduke Friedrich, Duke of Teschen, and a niece of Queen Maria Cristina of Spain.
They also noted Karns's failure to disclose his equipment's inability to navigate and communicate at the same time.
They fortified the interior garrison of Mpwapwa and reopened the main caravan route through the area, using Lts.
Gülbahar Hatun, daughter of Kötürüm Bayezid Sons Süleyman Pasha had at least three sons: Ishak Bey, Rumelia's bey.
He became a member of the Lexington Police Department's narcotics squad in the early 1970s and worked on narcotics investigations with the Louisville office of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
She was also known as Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, Viola Kavanagh, and perhaps as Viola Fleet and Elsa Spencer.
Tom Compernolle (13 November 1975 – 16 June 2008) was a Belgian runner, who specialized in the 5000 metres.
Delicate Arch climb Controversy surrounded Potter after his 2006 climb of Delicate Arch in Arches National Park, for which he lost his sponsorship from the Patagonia clothing company.
Dedge was reported to have passed out during a training session leading up to the bout and it is now widely believed (though never officially confirmed) that Dedge had a preexisting medical condition.
The event featured a grand total of 24 racing events, including 12 motorcycle and motorcar events each.
Destin Chancel Onka Malonga (16 March 1988 – 31 July 2016) was a Congolese professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper.
On 16 May 2021, Kasheer, a horse ridden by Pakistani Olympic hopeful Usman Khan, died at an Olympic eventing qualifier in South Australia.
Once in Aden, Burton was not granted a medical certificate to travel and thus Speke left on HMS Furious and arrived in England on 8 May 1859.
From 1967 to 1982, LaChapelle was professor of atmospheric sciences and geophysics at the University of Washington, and then professor emeritus following his retirement until his death.
Prince Friso was a co-founder of the MRI Centre in Amsterdam and was also a founding shareholder of Wizzair, the largest low-cost airline in Eastern Europe.
She died on the 14th, and an inquest was held on the 16th; her death certificate states the cause of her death as "Internal injuries, broken pelvis and arm, caused by a fall from a parachute.
He became the first European prince to patronize the Templars, giving them an annual income of 30 pounds in the money of Anjou.
Elias was to have half of the estate in order to support his rank as head of the family; this half included the château de Chambord.
The three surviving Black September gunmen had been arrested and were being held in a Munich prison for trial.
From 1964 to 1968 he studied at the Brera Academy in Milan with the well known professors Francesco Messina, Marino Marini and Alik Cavaliere.
Parachute design Robert Cocking was a professional watercolour artist with a keen amateur interest in science.
In 2000, Westenholz, a former director of Grindlay Brandts, was a member of the Jupiter International board of directors.
Largely due to an effective guerrilla campaign by troops from Friesland under Hans Willem van Aylva against their supply lines.
Cobb suffered great financial loss during the war including the destruction and theft of property as well as the death of at least one child.
At trial, the jury failed to reach a verdict on Joe Stoddart and the prosecution decided against a retrial.
Maxwell Henry Smith (21 December 1915 – 27 October 1941) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Essendon in the Victorian Football League (VFL).
In January 1998, at age 71, Walker was paralyzed from the neck down in a skiing accident at Steamboat Springs.
In late June, Dr Elena Duta was charged with manslaughter on reports that she did not attempt to resuscitate Ekeng in the ambulance.
Neville Sellwood, Australian Racing Hall of Fame jockey killed in 1962 at Maisons-Laffitte Racecourse, France.
Early life Slack's family migrated from the Windward Islands to High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire, England, when he was 11 years old.
Friedrich Alexander Hermann Pagenstecher (21 April 1828 – 31 December 1879) was a German ophthalmologist born in Wallau.
they bought and installed the bolts) but who was unsuccessful in redpointing it, and it is now considered to be "open" to any climber to try; sometimes the original bolter will leave colored tape on the first bolt(s) to note the route is "not open".
It was the first shoe to introduce the "P" logo which has since been used on all of the company's shoes.
fixed rope, base camps, etc.) in helping the lead climbers reach the eventual summit; opposite of alpine style.
Some big wall climbers such as those climbing Yosemite's Half Dome or El Capitan have "invented" novel ways to extend its use and compromise its safety.
In popular culture In the 2015 film Kingsman: The Secret Service, one of the villains, Gazelle, is seen wearing a pair of bladed Flex-Foot Cheetah.
For example, large rocks above the soil surface do not normally appear on topographic maps but can be important features on many orienteering maps.
A 2019 Yale study showed that there were 306 chemicals in crumb rubber and that 52 of these chemicals were classified as carcinogens by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Due to the large forces exerted on the rock when an SLCD is fallen on, it is very important that SLCDs are only placed in solid, strong rock.
After Sibley's death, his relatives attempted unsuccessfully to collect the royalties from the War Department.
An alpine route where protection is from permanent steel fixed ropes or chains, with progression aided by artificial steel steps or ladders; commonly found in the Dolomites.
When belaying a seconder from the top of a climb, the Reverso is attached by a carabiner through the "extra loop" that an ATC does not have, to the anchors in the place of an italian hitch knot.
Tousse Running Apparel is an American supplier of custom uniforms for track and field, which produces track suits, speedsuits, shorts and shirts for teams.
In rock climbing, a nut (or chock or chockstone or wire for the smallest versions) is a metal wedge threaded on a wire that climbers use for protection by wedging it into a crack in the rock.
The first team to score the requisite number of points as determined by the competitive format, wins the game.
A new location for its headquarters was not immediately selected, and the possibility of the company's sale was being considered.
To carry the swag is to be the bearer of the stolen goods to a place of safety." James Hardy Vaux, a convict in Australia, used the term for similar purposes in his memoirs written in 1812 and published in 1819.
On the same surface, a dance shoe with a leather or suede sole will give much less traction than a gym shoe with a composite rubber sole.
Soloflex refers to both the Soloflex exercise machine and to Soloflex, Inc., the company that created and produces it.
The Automatic Scorer digital computer was mathematically accurate, however the detection system at the pinsetter mechanism sometimes reported the wrong number of pins knocked down.
These casual bowlers unfamiliar with the formula thought the scores given by the computers were confusing.
Ortuseight is an Indonesian sport manufacturing company based in the Tangerang, Indonesia and it was established in 2018 which produces sports shoes and jerseys.
Keep is installed by default on devices in Apple Stores in China and was on Apple's "2015 Best of App Store list".
A line marker is a device or machine with which lines or markings are drawn on a sports field or pitch.
They are often preferred by alpine mountaineers over spring-loaded camming devices because of their lack of moving parts and overall lower weight for the same size crack.
The use of whitewashed or chalked lines was developed by William Wing, a Cincinnati Red Stockings groundskeeper.
Some communes have decided to fund this maintenance by charging an admission fee, but this applies to very few vias and most remain free of charge.
Issues of plumbing connections, fuel toxicity, leakage, spillage, and stove flareup are also nonexistent when using a solid-fuel portable stove.
The kit also had a wire handle which many soldiers used to hang the mess kit from their web equipment or backpack.
While it seemed to be as much effort to "kick" as a regular scooter, the novelty of it caught on and it became popular nevertheless.
Trymax is a Bulgarian manufacturer of sports accessories, with its primary hub for business operations in Sofia, Bulgaria.
In rock climbing, a copperhead is a small nut with a head made of soft metal on a loop of wire, originally copper or brass, later aluminium.
Leavittation A technique used to climb off-width cracks pioneered in the late 1970s by Randy Leavitt and Tony Yaniro that uses alternating hand-fist stacks and leg-calf locks; helpful for resting, and when placing protection.
Around 1862, Richard Lindon was desperate to find a replacement for the pig’s bladder and used an India rubber bladder, instead.
Containers effective against the American black bears in the Sierra Nevada may not be effective against the grizzly bears found elsewhere.
Flexible Flyer is a toy and recreational equipment brand, best known for the sled of the same name, a steerable wooden sled with steel runners.
For Yin Yoga The teacher of Yin Yoga Bernie Clark wrote that many yoga students see props as "cheating", perhaps feeling that since they are used in restorative yoga sessions, they are not suitable for other students.
The White Room - Product Innovation The White Room was first introduced to the 4FRNT community in 2010.
Comedian and TV personality Stephen Colbert used his show The Colbert Report to encourage his viewers to write in votes to use "Colbert" during the contest.
Due to the nature of the game, the fabric is generally strong, and traditionally rugby shirts have rubber buttons so that they would, if pulled on in a game, come undone rather than pop off.
z-pulley A system of rope, anchors, and pulleys; is typically used to extricate a climber after falling into a crevasse.
Later fuselages made of fabric-covered steel tubes were married to wood and fabric wings for lightness and strength.
For gymnastics, the ball originally began as a small ball around the size of a tennis ball and grew in size to make it easier for the audience to see and for the gymnast to roll along the body.
Sporting competitions In principle, the correction of ametropia is permitted with all suitable means.
Popularity The driving force in the company's growth and popularity has been in the skating scene, where its shoes has become popular among skaters for its durability.
Matthews, no longer features the product on their website, but notes that the company initially worked on "energy-generating play products" before shifting to other areas.
A shamiana (Bengali: শামিয়ানা, Urdu: شامیانہ) is a South Asian ceremonial tent, shelter or awning, commonly used for outdoor parties, weddings, feasts etc.
The vinyl tarp is ideal for agriculture, construction, industrial, trucks, flood barrier and temporary roof repair.
In 1957, Harrod Sport produced its first pair of football nets following a request from a local school teacher.
The German company Edelrid introduced the first kernmantel rope in 1953, which revolutionized fall prevention.
Athleta (and Umbro itself) were both manufacturers of Brazil jerseys for the 1958, 1962, and 1970 FIFA World Cups.
By 1992, 1.5 million had been sold at $19.95 directly from TV advertising, and 2 million more had been sold in stores, This was described by Jay Conrad Levinson and Seth Godin as "a classic example of the way that informercials can drive the retail market".
A notable exception was the tennis player Jane Régny (the pseudonym of Madame Balouzet Tillard de Tigny), who opened a couture house specialising in clothing for sport and travel.
Products Self-inflating mattress A Therm-a-Rest self-inflating mattress consists of an airtight nylon fabric envelope filled with a sheet of low density, open-cell polyurethane foam.
Equipment for the cyclist Basic equipment The basic equipment set out in the UCI technical regulation guide (Section 3: riders’ clothing) includes a jersey with sleeves, a pair of shorts and possibly a skinsuit.
Water shoe－The most common type and can be worn casually in and out of water because it functions as a normal shoe.
In 2007, Beermaker Rolling Rock aired a commercial poking fun of male thong wearers during Super Bowl XLI.
Solid-fuel stoves are also commonly used in emergency kits, both because they are compact and the fuel is very stable over time.
Edelson produced several prototypes that were used in a home and work office since the early 1990s with utilizing treadmills, stationary bicycles, and standing uptight to work.
The third method is to put a carpet or mat with woven or tufted fibres on the surface, then to brush in sand or sand mixes to keep the fibres in an upright position and finally to seed grass mixtures on top.
Most players affected choose to wear contact lenses, although Dutch player Edgar Davids, unable to wear contact lenses due to glaucoma, was known for his distinctive wraparound goggles.
In the Netherlands, the British forces were working in flooded conditions which demanded Wellingtons and thigh boots in vast supplies.
Type A ropes are intended for general use due to their superior strength; whereas type B ropes are intended for use in specialised circumstances where their usually thinner diameter and lower weight are critical for an operation.
Yoga as therapy is the use of asanas as a gentle form of exercise and relaxation, applied specifically with the intention of improving health.
Hockey jerseys started to become more popular as a fashion choice with the general public starting with the expansion of teams like the San Jose Sharks and Mighty Ducks of Anaheim to southern California.
Aiders (or the French etriers) are short 5–6 rung ladders made of lightweight webbing and are a central part of the technique of aid climbing.
The most common method is to use one bivouac sheet as the roof of the shelter and a second as the groundsheet.
History In the early 1800s, the term swag was used by British thieves to describe any amount of stolen goods.
In November 2020 ESPN2 broadcast a tape-delayed package covering the final round of the 2020 Tour Championship produced by Jomez Productions.
She said that despite spending a substantial amount of time on looking at exercises, she remained uncertain about which exercise to do.
Blue Valley High School, Stilwell, used by Blue Valley High school and Blue Valley West High School.
These jerseys are usually made from lightweight synthetic microfiber materials that wick moisture from the skin to aid evaporation, keeping the rider cool and dry.
It was reported that German team TSG 1899 Hoffenheim achieved its highest finish in the Bundesliga for five years - ninth place - after using the contraption.
Carrying sharp objects which could be used as weapons on one's person was banned in Finland in 1977.
Membership started with 25 members in 1974 with Harry Yalocki as the first Executive Director and Tom Burton as the first President.
Multi-pitch climbing, which can be done in sport or traditional formats, requires added rope devices like ascenders and descenders for moving up and down fixed-ropes.
Because it did not use a wick and did not produce soot, the Primus stove was advertised as the first "sootless" and "wickless" stove.
2009 – MTV presenter, Natasha Gilbert, stars in the first ever Life Style Sports Woman's Fitness Campaign "Your Life, Your Style, Your World”.
As of 2008 there are only four teams who do not have at least one player wearing the helmet: Boston Red Sox, Cleveland Indians, New York Yankees, and Washington Nationals.
Construction and materials The feel of a blade is influenced by the number of plies (layers) and the specific wood species used: 5-Ply Wood: Typically thinner and more flexible, providing greater dwell time and feedback, which is advantageous for generating spin.
The company started out as Bucksteel Mfg in Roswell, New Mexico, in a small plant on the old Army Air Force base south of town.
The athlete and wheelchair are viewed together by some sport researchers as a unified performance system.
Through points earned by finishing at DGPT tournaments, competitors can earn berths in the final season event, the Tour Championship.
The Footbanaut, which costs $3.5 million is as large as an apartment with a cube shape and is capable of firing balls from a range of 360 degrees at different speeds and trajectories toward the training players.
Copperheads are most often placed into small shallow seams and crevices by pounding or hammering them in to place, with a climbing hammer, sometimes with the aid of metal rod, chisel, or punch.
Reducing swing can be accomplished by minimizing the inner angle between individual anchors, and by increasing the number of individual anchors.
alpine style Carrying all your own gear (even for multi-day climbs); also called "light-weight" climbing; opposite of expedition style.
One of the most famous performers of the 20th century, Claude Alexander, was often billed as "Alexander the Crystal Seer".
Traditionally, a tent peg is improvised from a section of a small tree branch, if possible with a small side branch cut off to leave a hook, driven into the ground narrower end first.
Beginning with the 2014 season, all three governing bodies for lacrosse in the United States (US Lacrosse, NFHS, NCAA) have mandated that only balls meeting the NOCSAE ball standard may be used for competition.
McCardell once proclaimed: "I belong to a mass production country where any of us, all of us, deserve the right to good fashion." Martin credits the 1930s and 40s sportswear designers with freeing American fashion from the need to copy Paris couture.
Since this activity requires craning one's neck to look up at the climber, a common malady named "belayer's neck" can occur.
Both the Finnish Defence Forces and the Swedish Armed Forces issue rubber boots to all soldiers for use in wet conditions and during the winter with felt liners.
In artistic gymnastics, gymnasts will sometimes wear wrist guards to absorb the impact on the skills they perform.
Sun Mountain Sports, often referred to simply as Sun Mountain, is an American manufacturer of golf equipment based in Missoula, Montana.
The company was initially named Cascade Designs, which is now the parent company of Therm-a-Rest and other outdoor brands.
Therm-a-Rest is a Seattle, Washington-based outdoor product company specializing in camping mattresses, sleeping bags, camp chairs, cots, and pillows.
There are also auto-belay devices on the market which allow a climber to climb solo in their climbing gym.
As he desired to exude a certain "WASPishness" in his clothes, initially adopting the style of clothiers like Brooks Brothers, J.
Since 2006 there have been two separate companies creating Feiyue shoes: Da Fu Rubber and its subsidiary manufacturer, Double Coin Holdings, and a French company operating separately from the original Chinese company.
The service was founded in 2009 by Mark Gainey and Michael Horvath, along with co-founders Davis Kitchel, Chris Donahue, Mark Shaw, and Pelle Sommansson, and is based in San Francisco, California.
Drive and transmissions The simplest drive mechanism of stand-up scooters is the electric direct drive, where the motor directly drives the rear wheel.
It is now available for iPhone and Android devices and allows its user to track and analyze their performance and to share workout data and photos with its friends.
Ruder accepted, but the deal fell apart before the episode aired due to differences in strategy for the direction of the company.
History Predecessors Patent by Arthur Aubriot Pons The original device was patented in 1912 by Arthur A.
Heavier weighted clothing can also be used for slow, controlled movements, and as a way to add resistance to body-weight exercises.
Using a Grigri to bring up a second on a traditional anchor is however less favorable than other belay devices because the Grigri gives a more static catch with little to no rope slippage.
Media reaction The SOCCKET scored on the "Highbrow" and "Brilliant" quadrant of New York's "Approval Matrix" for the week of February 8, 2010.
Assistive technology is the array of new devices created to enable sports enthusiasts who have disabilities to play.
The construction of the lure is similar to how they were originally built, with the exception that the core is made from balsa wood instead of cork, and the outer coating is now paint and lacquer.
See also Crystal skull Magic Mirror (Snow White) Palantír Salvator Mundi (Leonardo), da Vinci's "Savior of the World" painting depicting Christ holding a crystal ball Seer stone (Latter Day Saints) Yard globe References Further reading Lang, Andrew (1900).
The frame design underwent a number of evolutions and eventually became the Mogema Diamond Series frame that for years was the most-prevalent inline speedskating frame in the world.
A study done on consumer practices suggests that users will either repair or purchase new objects when faced with worn materials that affect service.
In 2013, Life Style Sports became the official retail partner of Leinster Rugby, with a Life Style Sports shop located in Donnybrook Stadium and the Royal Dublin Society (RDS), home of Leinster Rugby.
In addition to this exercise, much like the trap bar can be used for deadlifts, a dip bar has other potential uses.
Martin Stadium at Washington State University in Pullman switched to Omniturf in 1990, and used it for a decade; like Autzen Stadium, it now uses FieldTurf.
Unlike quick releases, thru-axles are also available in many different lengths, which must be selected according to the frame and derailleur hanger of the bicycle.
Types Variations of climbing bolts include: Ring bolt has a loop on one end so it presents as a U-shape embedded in the wall.
It is another object of the invention to provide an exerciser which gives a greater amount of contraction for the same initial length of telescopic system.
Portable stoves in modern times can be divided into several broad categories based on the type of fuel used and the design of the aluminium stoving frame.
In cases of homogeneous terrain with few distinct features, a bearing between 2 known points on the map may be used.
This initiative aims to identify and nurture young female handball talent across India, providing a structured pathway for emerging athletes.
In 1988 TST was incorporated by David Lippes and soon after started producing rigid manual wheelchair frames from titanium.
In fall 2017, the company said it had sold its one-millionth net and was generating $15 million in sales per year.
Hockey jerseys are often more complicated than football or baseball jerseys, due the front crest being a major feature rather than player numbers.
World Tour In 1888–1889, Spalding took a group of major league players around the world to promote baseball and Spalding sporting goods.
Sustainability In 2020, Rapala VMC Corporation launched its new sustainability strategy, with the aim of being one of the world's leading fishing tackle companies in terms of sustainability by 2024.
These shoulder pads were sewn into the players' jerseys rather than being worn as a separate piece of equipment.
In a 2022 interview with Climbing, Sherman credited El Paso-based boulder climbers, Donny Hardin and Fred Nakovic, for the original idea "after a heel-bruising session not at Hueco, but City of Rocks, New Mexico".
It was used in the team portable apparatus competitions for women at both the 1952 and 1956 Olympics before the event was discontinued.
Aircraft To commemorate the company's 30th anniversary, the company began manufacturing gliders in 1936.
According to these results, Sports Tracker ranked 2nd-4th in distance accuracy, and 9th in elevation difference.
After that, flywheel resistance training was studied in space travelers exposed to microgravity environments to fight the effects of sarcopenia and bone mineral density loss, started at Karolinska Institute in the 1990s funded by NASA and ESA.
Playing across the western U.S., the tour made stops in Hawaii (although no game was played), New Zealand, Australia, Ceylon, Egypt, Italy, France, and England.
Any splices narrow enough to maintain smooth running would be less able to support the required weight.
A simple nylon guide is used to ensure both discs activate simultaneously to jam the discs between each drum ramp and the frame's lock ring.
A scrimmage vest, sometimes referred to as a pinny (NAE) or bib (BrE), is a piece of clothing or sportswear, often made of mesh, used in practices as a substitute for a sports team's usual uniform or to differentiate temporary teams in informal scrimmages.
The rope diameter and elasticity is critical for operation, as higher than normal fall forces can be generated due to the rapid locking rate, in the order of 13 kN at runners and anchor points.
Disabled Sports USA - The national organization that provides over 40 different adaptive sports to over 60,000 people with disabilities in the US through a network of over 100 community-based chapters.
Mountain bikers often prefer to point the lever backwards, to reduce the risk of it catching on undergrowth and being pulled open.
Some Robert Mole blades survive as souvenirs of travellers to Trinidad, Jamaica, and, less commonly, St.
Lowe's innovation also featured the first side compression straps, the first modern sternum strap, and the first load stabilizers.
Climbing routes that are bolted are known as sport climbs, and those that do not use (or allow) bolts, are known as traditional climbs.
Dip bars that are high enough can also be used via having the hands below the bar instead of on top of them, using the finger flexors to hang on.
Rugby football Until 1870, rugby was played with a near spherical ball with an inner-tube made of a pig's bladder.
Many players of other disc sports will often use a throw-and-catch (no plastic nails or sprays) version of freestyle to warm up for their disc games.
SIBBG conducts visual inspection and various structural tests, then containers are filled with food and left in the cages of captive black bears in a zoo in California.
SERENE Acronym for building anchors; stands for Strong, Equalised, Redundant, Efficient, No Extension.
In 2021, the company acquired Callaghan Country Wilderness Adventures in Whistler, and with it a backcountry lodge called the Journeyman Lodge.
the body belay for belaying, the dülfersitz abseil for descending, and the prusik knot for ascending), and these mechanical devices help with both control and safety in all conditions (e.g.
Mechanically the StairMaster 6000 was virtually identical to its predecessor, but the 6000 displayed workout information on a digital screen.
Runners are used by rock and ice climbers to extend the distance between an anchoring device and the rope.
Other names for the object include crystal sphere, orbuculum, scrying ball, shew/show(ing) stone, and more variants by dialect.
In 1982 Boreal, the Spanish company located in Villena, produced the "Firé" style of shoe with a revolutionary sticky rubber sole.
The exact heights at which these apply depend on the heights of the campers involved; those over 182 cm (5.97 ft) are likely to have less choice of tents than those who are somewhat shorter.
The 32-panel configuration is the spherical polyhedron corresponding to the truncated icosahedron; it is spherical because the faces bulge from the pressure of the air inside.
As the soldier passed along the mess line, food service personnel would dole out hot items first, often meat followed by vegetables, potatoes, and other side dishes, ostensibly separated by the tray dividers.
Uses The volume of the reservoir and the pack carrying it can vary widely depending on the purpose of the hydration pack.
United States For American football, Omniturf was installed several college football stadiums in the United States.
A modern example of this departure was evident during the 2012 Olympics when the USA men's volleyball team opted for the more athletic-friendly thigh length.
The common characteristic is a single wall, in most cases, waterproof." See also Poncho tent Bivouac Basha Hammock Camping == Notes ==
Additionally, common personal items such as toothbrushes, razor and toilet paper may also be stored in a chuck box.
there are both ice and bare rock sections), a separate M-grading grading system is used, which goes from M1, M2, M3, .....
Mountaineers sometimes build tent platforms in their base camps from materials such as pebble or snow.
Their original colours of light blue and white were chosen to reflect an association with Cambridge University, where a number of the club's founders had been educated.
Most puukkos have a slight shoulder but no ricasso (an unsharpened section nearest the handle), because the point where the blade ends and the handle begins, is also the point where most power can be applied.
References External links When Great Britain won the World Cup Tracking down the heroes of 1972 Warrington's World Cup heroes – Jim Challinor Coaching Profile at saints.org.uk HALL OF HEROES: Warrington Wolves' Jim Challinor, World Cup winning pläyer and coäch
Saddle seat riders, whose riding clothing styles were derived from men's business suits, wear Kentucky Jodhpurs in dark colors, usually black, navy blue, or a shade that matches the riding coat.
The NICE guidelines in the UK state that healthcare professionals should not offer rocker-bottom shoes as a treatment for people with lower back pain or sciatica.
Snowboarders such as Craig Kelly adapted plastic "tongues" to their boots to provide the same support for toe-side turns that the highback provided for heel-side turns.
The lusikkahaarukka are hard wearing, so much so that new conscripts are still issued with units manufactured during World War II.
Common items found in household and travel first aid boxes include adhesive bandages, sterile gauze pads, adhesive tape, antiseptic solutions, cotton wool, scissors, tweezers, disposable gloves, and wound dressings.
This issue was fixed in the 1990s when synthetic fibers were added, making the shoulder pads more breathable.
The company entered the sporting goods market in 1910, when it began to manufacture rubber golf balls at its base in Birmingham.
It is one of the five apparatuses utilized in this discipline, alongside the clubs, hoop, ribbon, and rope.
Kick scooter In 1974, the Honda company made the Kick 'n Go, a scooter driven by a pedal on a lever.
An agreement was reached soon after for Mogema metalworking to produce quantities of the frame for sale by the Stouwdam skate shop in nearby Oldebroek.
Subsequently, the design changed from copper/brass to spun aluminium; there is no record of when this change occurred.
See also Amateur wrestling Collegiate wrestling Freestyle wrestling Greco-Roman wrestling Leotard Wrestling shoes Wrestling headgear == References ==
Nuts may be generically referred to as wires or stoppers, though "Stopper" is a brand name of a nut made by Black Diamond Equipment.
Nylon was discovered in the late 1930s and was first introduced into fiber ropes during World War II.
1 stove, made of brass, consists of a fuel tank at the base, above which is a "rising tube" and the burner assembly.
The two most common materials are a mix between cotton and polyester (many of these shirts are meant for supporter use, though they can be used in a rugby game), and pure polyester (these shirts are generally designed specifically for game use by players).
Guidelines for health exercise can also be the purpose of training which can be pursued and monitored by loading a training program to a Smart Card and accomplish exercises guided by machines themselves.
Following on from their previous success in 2017 Nidecker acquired the binding and boot manufacturer Flow.
The Xiaomi Mi Smart Band 4 (Xiaomi Mi Band 4 in China) is a wearable activity tracker produced by Xiaomi Inc released in China on 16 June 2019, in Europe on 26 June 2019 and in India on 19 September 2019.
In 1989, the StairMaster 4000 was the company's most popular model, which Aron Kahn of the Ottawa Citizen attributed to its affordability and implementation of positive reinforcement through an on-screen display of goals and congratulatory messages.
A scrum machine, or scrummaging machine, is a padded, weighty device against which a pack of rugby forwards can practice scrummaging and rucking.
Mizuno Corporation (ミズノ株式会社, legally 美津濃株式会社, Mizuno Kabushiki-gaisha) (TYO: 8022) is a Japanese sports equipment and sportswear company, founded in Osaka in 1906 by Rihachi Mizuno.
The Razor was introduced to Japan in 1999, with many early adopters being young Japanese who used it for portable transport.
As China was experiencing economic deceleration, Keep in October 2019 laid off 15% of its workforce after having increased it by fourfold in 2018.
(Chuck and grub are both "cowboy" terms for food.) A chuck box, grub box, camp box and patrol box (scouting version) are all the same thing.
A physical therapist interviewed by Men's Health suggested that the device would not protect the back, but would reduce effort and so lower the effectiveness of exercise.
In the Tour de France, jerseys are awarded to the leaders of specific classifications after each stage: Yellow jersey for general classification, Green jersey for points classification, Polka dot jersey for mountains classification, and White jersey for best young rider.
Damping layers, shock pads, and anchoring techniques determine this flooring's level of performance.
In 2014, Giant introduced the D-Fuse seat post, it features cylindrical front side and flatten rear side, according to Giant, is designed to absorb shocks and vibrations to give flatter experience for cycling, and increase maneuverability on complex grounds.
Note that the necessity to serve multiple purposes can often be eased by the use of a gym floor cover to protect the floor.
They are designed to be lightweight and flexible, providing traction and ankle support on wrestling mats.
Wilson, former president of meatpacker Morris & Company, was appointed president by the controlling banks and renamed the company "Thomas E.
In such cases, the wearer maintains solid and stable footing while standing, but the rock of the heel assists with the propulsive phase of gait, making walking more natural and less painful to the affected joints.
The actual capacity in number of days of hiking food stored varies with the appetite of the hiker, the selection of food, and the skill in which it is packed, but a 700 in3 canister likely holds up to a week's worth of food for the average hiker.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Federación Mexicana de Levantamiento de Pesas (FMLP).
Men Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by Cycling South Africa Not ratified or later rescinded by the Cycling South Africa Women References General South African records July 2023 Specific External links Cycling South Africa web site
Least attended game in history The record was set on September 28, 1882, in game between the Troy Trojans and the Worcesters in Worcester, Massachusetts, which some reports had only six spectators attend.
He met immediate success while standing at Lasater Farm in Ocala, and by 1981 his progeny made him that year's Leading sire in North America.
Timeline of the "number one" ranking The first official ranking list, the Sony Ranking, was published prior to the Masters in April 1986, with Bernhard Langer the first world No.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Kosovo Weightlifting Federation.
Of these skaters, only one (Mao Shimada) has accomplished the feat more than once, winning all four major competitions for 4 consecutive seasons between the 2022-23 and 2025-26 seasons.
In autumn at Belmont he was moved up in class to finish fourth in both the Lawrence Realization Stakes and the Man o' War Stakes.
The wave height was estimated by the Mavericks Rescue Team, but has not yet been confirmed by Guinness World Records.
Drumtop (1966–1983) was an American Thoroughbred horse racing mare purchased as a yearling for $47,000 who won close to half a million dollars in racing against both females and males.
At the 2018 World Championships, judokas from North Korea and South Korea competed as a unified Korean team and won bronze medals in the mixed team competition.
The objective is not to create combined medal tables; the focus is on listing the best positions achieved by teams in major international tournaments, ranking the nations according to the most podiums accomplished by teams of these nations.
MLS Cup championship The list only includes clubs that failed to win an MLS Cup championship for ten or more consecutive seasons.
The following are the national records in athletics in Ivory Coast maintained by its national athletics federation, the Fédération Ivoirienne d'Athlétisme (FIA).
After finishing as runners up at the 2019 Netball Quad Series and defeating both Australia and New Zealand, England returned to the number two position.
In recent years, Genius Sports has focused on enhancing its offerings through acquisitions and technological innovations, particularly in the realm of sports betting and real-time data solutions.
{\displaystyle {\frac {p_{A,B}}{1-p_{A,B}}}={\frac {p_{A}}{1-p_{A}}}\times {\frac {1-p_{B}}{p_{B}}}.} One can then solve p A , B = p A − p A × p B p A + p B − 2 × p A × p B .
Most rated players As of November 2018, Germany has the highest number of active FIDE-rated players with 11,813.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international rugby union, rugby sevens, rugby league and wheelchair rugby tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
On July 12 he was matched against the five-year-old gelding John Henry in the Sword Dancer Invitational Handicap at Belmont.
McHenry urged Dan Patch hard down the homestretch and he responded with a final quarter mile in under 30 seconds to set the record.
On September 7 at the half-mile track in Lima, Ohio, Dan Patch paced a world record of 2:04, only to have the record broken by Prince Alert a few weeks later.
Three skaters are also tied for winning the most bronze medals (also with four each): Carolina Kostner of Italy, Anna Kondrashova of the Soviet Union, and Viktoria Volchkova of Russia.
In the following year he showed much-improved form, winning seven races including the Fort Marcy Handicap, Edgemere Handicap, Bowling Green Handicap and Tidal Handicap as well as finishing second in the Washington D C International.
To the extent that they exist, losing streaks may arise from the loser effect: an increased probability of losing at time T, based on losing at time T−1, T−2, etc.
However, of the men to attempt the record since the rule change, only five were on a UCI World Tour team at the time: Jens Voigt of Trek Factory Racing, Rohan Dennis of the BMC Racing Team, Alex Dowsett of the Movistar Team, Victor Campenaerts of Lotto Soudal, Filippo Ganna of Ineos Grenadiers.
Only in 1903, apart from the cyclist that won the race, was there no other former or future Tour de France winner.
Curling and wheelchair curling *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
3-3-3 Legacy World Record Progression Female 3-6-3 Legacy World Record Progression Female Cycle Legacy World Record Progression Female Doubles Legacy World Record Progression 3-6-3 Relay Legacy World Record Progression == References ==
There is also a maximum of 52 tournaments, which means that only the player's 52 most recent tournaments (within the two-year period) are used.
The mark of 43.133 km was achieved on 1 October at the National Cycling Centre in Manchester, Great Britain.
Ice hockey Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The Masters series along with the Grand Slam tournaments, the ATP Finals championship and the Olympic Games are considered the top-tier events of men's tennis, referred to by the ATP as the "Big Titles".
Basketball, 3x3 basketball and wheelchair basketball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The following are the national records in speed skating in Brazil maintained by the Brazilian Ice Sports Federation (CBGD).
Previous events were held in London (2004, 2011), Sydney (2005), Mumbai (2006), Johannesburg (2007, 2009), Dubai (2008) and Bangalore (2010).
^BC was in the West Division for all 20 years, but qualified for the Crossover to the East Division Playoffs in 1997, 2003, 2009, and 2014.
His 1956 performances earned Canadian Champ Canadian Horse of the Year honours, and he retired as the richest Thoroughbred in Canadian racing history.
Using their experience, knowledge and appreciation of the game, they selected the ICC World XI Teams and provided a long list of nominations to the 32 members of the voting academy to cast their votes in the individual player award categories.
Most aces in WTA 1000s in a season Elena Rybakina has served the most aces in WTA 1000 events in a season with 235 in 2023, the most since 2009.
Under jockey Rafael Manuel Hernandez, Pink Lloyd settled behind the early leader Conquest Enforcer, who completed the first quarter mile in 21.96 seconds.
Medals earned by athletes from defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are NOT merged with the results achieved by their immediate successor states.
This is a list of achievements in major international table tennis events according to gold, silver and bronze medal results obtained by athletes representing different nations.
The fixed-roof Ford Field in Detroit hosted one doubleheader and a single game, and another was held at the retractable-roof Veltins-Arena in Gelsenkirchen, Germany (with the roof closed for that game); all other games on the list were held in open-air venues.
Frusquin was also a leading sire in Great Britain and Ireland in 1903 and the Leading broodmare sire in Great Britain & Ireland in 1924.
Records can be set at intermediate distances in an individual race and for the first leg of a relay race.
Background Nodouble was a chestnut stallion, bred in Arkansas by oilman Gene Goff’s Verna Lea Farms.
The outcome of a match does not solely depend on the strength of the opponents, but also on how much effort one or the other is willing to invest.
After retirement to stud, he became the leading sire in North America of 1981 and was also a notable broodmare sire.
Not counting this, the lowest recorded attendance was at the 1953 edition in Switzerland, with 53,000 total spectators.
All disciplines Chronological To date, sixteen single skaters and twenty-three couples have completed the Junior Grand Slam.
Points per match Teams earn points for each match, with the specific amount determined based on the outcome of the match (win or loss) and the rating of their opponents.
The world's most valuable sports teams, as ranked annually by the American magazine Forbes, includes teams from the National Football League (NFL), National Basketball Association (NBA), Major League Baseball (MLB), and several European association football leagues.
[3] Breeding record When her racing career ended, Drumtop was a broodmare at Rokeby Farm in Upperville, Virginia She produced nine foals that raced of which three were stakes race winners.
For the 2018 NHL Global Series, the Florida Panthers and Winnipeg Jets played two games at Hartwall Arena in Helsinki, Finland on November 1 and 2, 2018, with both teams splitting the hosting duties as the home team.
Through the end of the 2025 NBA play-in tournament, the Miami Heat and Atlanta Hawks are tied for the most play-in tournament games played, with six each.
Racing at ages four and five, Nodouble was named American Champion Older Male Horse by the Thoroughbred Racing Association in both years.
Qualifiers in final Age statistics All countrymen in final Titles won by decade as of 2026 Monte Carlo.
When Pink Lloyd first started training, he would chase any horse who was working out at the same time, leaving him tired and sore.
The "Different holders" column gives the number of cyclists of the country that wore the yellow jersey.
Starting pitcher Daisuke Yamai pitched eight perfect innings and received the win, with Hitoki Iwase pitching a perfect ninth inning and receiving the save; the Dragons' victory also resulted in them winning the Japan Series.
For the creation of the list only results from adult competitions were consulted; therefore, results achieved at the Youth Olympic Games and at the World Junior Championships were not considered.
Within each of the belts, students have the opportunity to earn up to generally 4 stripes on their belt, indicating progress within that belt.
For comparison, the fastest known 400m lap was skated by Jenning de Boo on 25 January 2025 in Calgary during a 1000-meter, with a lap time of 23.92 seconds and an average speed of 60.20 km/h (37.41 mph).
Preseason seedings disappear over the course of the season, and are completely absent from consideration by the time the season ends.
A study of streaks in Major League Baseball and National Basketball Association concluded that the actual results were similar enough to predictions with no momentum effect, that the effect was of limited importance.
There are 4 other countries who have hosted the championships at least once, and are represented on the top 30.
According to this list, 6 events are from WWC's annual Aniversario supercard, which in the late-1980s had been held exclusively at the Juan Ramón Loubriel Stadium which typically has a seating capacity of at least 22,000 people or more.
Since MLB implementation of the softball variant of the WBSC tie-breaker in 2020, the offensive team is awarded a free runner on second base each half-inning during extra innings.
Example In the standings below from the 1994 Major League Baseball season, the Atlanta Braves are six games behind the Montreal Expos.
In 2001, Glenn McGrath invented the tradition of a bowler raising the ball to the crowd at the completion of a five-wicket haul.
In May 2018, after winning gold at the 2018 Commonwealth Games, they initially remained at number three.
Some stadiums are only used by a team for certain high attendance matches, like local derbies or cup games.
FIG also considers the defunct Four Continents Championships as an official competition, but since the tournament excluded nations from Europe, results have not been included.
The Goldberg win streak was a lengthy series of victories that established the character of American professional wrestler Goldberg, following his debut on WCW Monday Nitro on September 22, 1997.
Although the term "personal best" is increasingly used in official sports statistics, it can also refer to an unofficial best individual performance.
Racing career Discovery was owned by Adolphe Pons of Country Life Farm in Bel Air, Maryland, who raced him at age two with limited success, winning only two of thirteen starts and being beaten in several races by future Hall of Famer Cavalcade.
Note that for continuity purposes, the Cleveland Browns are officially considered to have suspended operations for the 1996, 1997, and 1998 seasons.
Men's national teams ranking The unofficial national teams ranking is calculated by the Elo rating system.
The Streak was a series of 21 consecutive victories for professional wrestler The Undertaker (Mark Calaway) at WWE's annual flagship marquee event, WrestleMania.
In tennis, the ATP Masters is an annual series of nine top-level tennis tournaments featuring the elite men's tennis players on the ATP Tour.
An October 19, 1987 article in Sports Illustrated referred to White Skies as a "bullet" horse in the same vein as racing greats such as Tom Fool, Decathlon, Ta Wee, Dr.
The David Shepherd Trophy is awarded annually by the International Cricket Council to the ICC Umpire of the Year.
Drumtop's son Topsider, sired by Northern Dancer, set a new track record for 6½ furlongs at Saratoga Race Course.
Dan Patch was the subject of the 1949 motion picture The Great Dan Patch starring Dennis O'Keefe and Gail Russell.
As of October 2022, they have played 38 Test matches against five different opponents—Australia, England, South Africa, New Zealand and the West Indies.
All competitions Overall Longest matches by duration Only two professional competitive matches have lasted longer than seven hours and 14 matches have lasted longer than six hours.
Racing career Hidden Treasure won the 1959 Display, Carleton and Summer Stakes and ran second to Victoria Park in the two most important races for Canadian two-year-olds, the Cup and Suaucer and Coronation Futurity Stakes.
Noted basketball analyst Dean Oliver also applied James' Pythagorean theory to professional basketball.
Long Course (50 m) Men Women Mixed relay Short Course (25 m) Men Women Mixed relay Notes References General Jordanian records 5 April 2026 updated Specific External links JSF web site
Later that same season, the Montreal Alouettes moved into Olympic Stadium, following the 1976 Summer Olympics.
RankTennis recorded the same time and TNNS recorded one minute longer, but SofaScore recorded five minutes less.
The red-and-white belt is often reserved only for ceremonial occasions, and a regular black belt is still worn during training.
Outdoor Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by ÖLV Not ratified or later rescinded by FSHA Men Women Mixed Indoor Men Women Notes References General Austrian Records 7 December 2025 updated Specific External links ÖLV web site
Opta provides data for more than 30 sports in over 70 countries, with clients ranging from leagues and federations to broadcasters and betting websites.
If the winning dart is in the first or second dart thrown in a visit, only those darts are counted as thrown for that visit (the one or two darts not thrown are not counted).
The Houston Outlaws hold the distinction of having lost the most matches (5) among the teams with the lowest number of wins (1).
Alexei Urmanov of Russia won the inaugural men's event, Michelle Kwan of the United States won the women's event, Evgenia Shishkova and Vadim Naumov of Russia won the pairs event, and Oksana Grishuk and Evgeni Platov, also of Russia, won the ice dance event.
Frusquin, a multiple winner of top-level races including the 1896 British Classic and the 2,000 Guineas Stakes.
These records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts.
At age four in 1953, his wins included the Interborough and Sport Page Handicaps plus he set a new track record of 1:22 3/5 for seven furlongs in a win at the Atlantic City Race Course.
But there's always horses around him, he's an aggressive horse." Pink Lloyd completed the season with eight stakes race wins from eight starts – believed to be the longest stakes-winning streak ever at Woodbine Racetrack.
Pedigree * Tiller is inbred 4S x 4S to the stallion Firdaussi, meaning that he appears fourth generation twice on the sire side of his pedigree.
Each competition is held once every two years since 1984, except for 2020 edition which was postponed due to the pandemic.
{\displaystyle R_{\mathsf {A}}'=R_{\mathsf {A}}+K\cdot (S_{\mathsf {A}}-E_{\mathsf {A}})~.} This update can be performed after each game or each tournament, or after any suitable rating period.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2020 Grand Prix Final, scheduled to be held in Beijing, was at first postponed, and then removed from China altogether.
Men Women Historical records Men (2018–2025) Men (1998–2018) ^1 The IWF website still lists Nijat Rahimov (Kazakhstan) record of 214 kg in the clean and jerk, which was later disqualified for doping.
One ice dance team and one ice dancer have won all major junior and senior level competitions and the Olympic Team event.
Aside from the NBA Playoff appearance streaks, this list also includes the NBA Finals appearance streak and the NBA championships win streak.
Seating capacity of venues also plays a role in what media they are able to provide and how they are able to provide it.
In a space of less than two weeks in 1958, he set two track records while beating two horses ranked near the top in American racing history.
This list is a compilation of total centuries scored by international cricketers, split between different formats of the game.
The following are the national records in track cycling in the Philippines, maintained by its national cycling federation, Integrated Cycling Federation of the Philippines.
Junior Golden Slam The Junior Golden Slam is the junior-level equivalent to the Golden Slam, first coined by fans following the establishment of the Winter Youth Olympic Games in 2012.
The STATS FCS awards have been presented annually by STATS LLC since 2015 to recognise the most outstanding collegiate football players and coach in the NCAA Division I Football Championship Subdivision.
He was sired by the French stallion Herbager who won the Prix du Jockey Club and the Grand Prix de Saint-Cloud before his racing career was ended by injury.
These records were maintained by the Soviet Athletics Federation during the country's existence until its dissolution in 1991.
This also skews the list towards sports with salary caps where salaries are therefore public knowledge and easy to cite.
Higher grades In Japanese martial arts the further subdivisions of black belt ranks may be linked to dan grades and indicated by 'stripes' on the belt.
The contract figures referenced below are presented at face value and do not reflect potential pre or post-tax treatments.
It was part of the National Wrestling Alliance from 1979 to 1986 and is the last remaining North American member of the original NWA territory system.
Tiller was beaten in his last four races of 1978, but was in the money against top-class opposition on each occasion.
The tries scored in this match brought both players to six apiece, but as to which of these players reached that mark first is unclear.
Few skaters have won the gold medal in the individual event at the Olympic Games in addition to all three major competitions a second time, achieving a double Career Golden Slam.
Her record was unchallenged until 2007, when another female angler, Bev Street, broke the record for largest caught freshwater fish by landing a 66lb catfish at Bluebell Lakes in Peterborough.
Garrett McNamara - Apart from his 2011 world record, McNamara has reportedly surfed to what was dubbed by the media as a "100 foot wave" on 28 January 2013 at Praia do Norte.
For example, opponents of the 2016 New England Patriots had a combined record of 111–142–3 (a win percentage of 0.439, the SOS), and Patriots' wins came against teams with a combined record of 93–129–2 (a win percentage of 0.424, the SOV).
Strategy Apart from using hands in neutral space to shield or deflect a pass or a shot, the defender uses their body to impede the ball-carrier's advance toward the basket.
Since 2020, The Basketball Tournament has awarded one free throw plus possession for any defensive foul during the Elam Ending that would result in bonus free throws at any other point during the game.
Background Bred by renowned Lexington, Kentucky horseman, Charles Nuckols Jr., he was out of the mare Milk Dipper and sired by Calumet Farm's Arlington Futurity winner, Sun Again.
This is a list of Canadian Football League regular season records by teams that played in the Canadian Football League as well as the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union and the Western Interprovincial Football Union that preceded it.
These areas are supported by applying financial metrics such as revenue and operating income to each one.
Balkans Cup is not considered a UEFA competition, and hence clubs' records in the Balkans Cup are not considered part of their European record.
Notes and references External links World Skate Europe Rink Hockey (official website) rinkhockey.net
It was Tot Robinson that was to break this record on 9 March 1901 with his mark of eight tries and no one challenged this until Arthur Hudson equalled and then broke it at Parc des Princes when England defeated France on 3 March 1910.
Current records Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Not ratified or later rescinded by IWF When the previous records and weight classes were discarded, the IWF defined "world standards" as the minimum lifts needed to qualify as world records in the new weight classes.
The following are the national records in track cycling in South Korea maintained by the Korea Cycling Federation.
The following are the national records in athletics in Puerto Rico maintained by its national athletics federation: Federación de Atletismo de Puerto Rico (FAPUR).
On March 30, 2014, radio station DZBB-AM reported that Guinness has officially recognized the new world record set by the Philippine Basketball Marathon.
The French performance is still recognized as the European record, while the official world record is held by the United States.
In November 2020, Sportradar announced extending its I&I capabilities to specifically supporting more US clients.
The Boston Celtics hold the longest consecutive NBA Finals appearance streak with ten appearances between 1957 and 1966.
The ISU left open the possibility for postponement until the end of the season, but did not announce a post-season date or location for any rescheduled event.
Breaks are limited to 5 minutes per 1 hour of playing time There are two teams and these teams are limited to 12-a-side (11 on the field plus one "sub") No player is permitted to leave the ground unless they are incapacitated A break is not permitted between innings.
MLS Cup Final appearance The list only includes clubs that failed to make the MLS Cup final for nine or more consecutive seasons.
From their highest camp at 19,325 ft (5,890 m), they and some of their guides and carriers reached an altitude of 22,259 ft (6,785 m) according to their barometric measurements, which would have put them higher than Llullaillaco.
He was undefeated in eight starts that year, with his largest win coming in the Kennedy Road Stakes.
This kind of ranking is less common in arts that do not claim a far Eastern origin, though it is used in the United States Marine Corps Martial Arts Program.
In 1938, Menow finished third in the Kentucky Derby to Lawrin and third to Dauber in the Preakness Stakes.
d The Brooklyn Nets last appeared in the 2003 Conference Finals and NBA Finals as the New Jersey Nets.
Career Golden Masters The achievement of winning all of the nine active ATP Masters tournaments over the course of a player's career.
When he raced in 1957 at age four, Canadian Champ's best results were a win in the Swynford Stakes at Woodbine Racetrack and three stakes race seconds.
Men Women References General ISU world records 28 January 2026 updated Specific External links ISU web site Speed skating statistics by Evert Stenlund
Outdoor Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by FEDACHI Not ratified or later rescinded by FEDACHI Men Women Mixed Indoor Men Women Notes References General Chilean Records 9 August 2025 Specific External links FEDACHI web site
Selection Committee Chaired by ICC Cricket Hall of Famer Clive Lloyd, the ICC Selection Committee was charged with two main tasks.
The distance completed in the hour is determined by adding the fraction of that final lap, calculated from the ratio of the time remaining at the start of that lap to the time taken for that lap, to the preceding completed laps.
If player A has a rating of R A {\displaystyle \,R_{\mathsf {A}}\,} and player B a rating of R B {\displaystyle \,R_{\mathsf {B}}\,} , the exact formula (using the logistic curve with base 10 and scale factor 400) for the expected score of player A is E A = 1 1 + 10 ( R B − R A ) / 400 .
The tables are pre-sorted by total number of first-place results, second-place results and third-place results, then most first-place results, second-place results, respectively.
Alex Rodriguez, Cristiano Ronaldo, Stephen Strasburg, Manny Machado, Deshaun Watson, Stephen Curry, and Giannis Antetokounmpo are on the list two times each.
This was the only time that a Triple Crown winner has not been retrospectively recognized as Horse of the Year.
The International Building Code specifies, "In places of assembly, the seats shall be securely fastened to the floor" but provides exceptions if the total number of seats is fewer than 100, if there is a substantial amount of space available between seats or if the seats are at tables.
All-time droughts NBA championship droughts Closest approaches without winning Updated through the 2025 NBA Finals.
The following are the national records in athletics in Guyana maintained by its national athletics federation: Athletics Association of Guyana (AAG).
The list is dominated by Puerto Rico's oldest promotion, the World Wrestling Council, which has controlled the industry in the country since its founding in 1973.
Active streaks NBA Playoffs appearance streaks This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons with a playoff appearance.
Many early claims of world altitude records are muddied by incomplete surveying and lack of knowledge of local geography, which have led to reassessments of many of the heights which were originally claimed.
{\displaystyle p_{B,P}={\frac {\frac {p_{B}\times p_{P}}{p_{L}}}{{\frac {p_{B}\times p_{P}}{p_{L}}}+(1-p_{B})\times {\frac {1-p_{P}}{1-p_{L}}}}}.} Or simplified as p B , P = p B × p P × ( 1 − p L ) ( p B × p P ) − ( p L × p B ) − ( p L × p P ) + p L .
157 – Harvey Wylie 151 – Gene Gaines 147 – Don Sutherin Most interception return yards, single game 151 – Marvin Coleman (November 4, 1995) 116 – Kenny Wheaton (November 5, 2004) 115 – Alfred Jordan (November 2, 1997) 106 – Greg Peterson (November 15, 1987) 103 – Glenn Rogers Jr.
The NFL officially counts and includes the statistical records logged by teams that played in the American Football League (AFL) and All-America Football Conference (AAFC).
The following are the national records in athletics in Saudi Arabia maintained by the Saudi Arabian Athletics Federation (SAAF).
Key: Season playoffs The following listing does not include play-in tournaments and is accurate as of the end of the 2021 Overwatch League playoffs.
The following are the national records in speed skating in Germany maintained by the Deutsche Eisschnelllauf-Gemeinschaft (DESG).
Other early sporting bodies dedicated to playing football include "The Gymnastic Society" of London which met regularly during the second half of the eighteenth century to pursue two sports: football and wrestling.
Furthermore, the company supports several charitable projects like the Czech affiliate of SOS Children's Villages.
As of 2021, mobile apps developed by Livesport have been globally downloaded by more than 100 million users.
At a time when harness racing was one of the largest sports in the nation, Dan Patch was a major celebrity.
The following are the national records in athletics in Russia maintained by All-Russia Athletic Federation (ARAF).
See also List of WNBA franchise post-season streaks List of NBA franchise postseason droughts Basketball portal == References ==
This too was considered controversial by the UCI, and while the record was allowed to stand, the position was banned.
Unless notified these statistics concern all seasons since inception of the ULEB Cup in the 2002–03 season, including qualifying rounds of the EuroCup as per "Competition facts"; all matches before regular season count as "qualifying matches".
Ajax accepted the penalties, and announced that it had extended the fan's stadium ban by 30 years and banned him for life from the club and its season ticket list.
Wally Buono is the all-time leader in both wins and losses with 282 wins, 165 losses, and three ties.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Weightlifting Federation of Turkmenistan.
If Goldberg was to lose another match at any point in time, unless he managed to duplicate his undefeated streak from 1997 to 1998, he would be forced to retire from professional wrestling.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Samahang Weightlifting ng Pilipinas.
If the number of gold medals is identical, the silver and bronze medals are used as tie-breakers (in that order).
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international indoor handball, beach handball and field handball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
In 1969, he was sent to a breeding operation in Japan, where he died in 1978 at the age of twenty-five.
This recumbent features two 700c-sized wheels similar to the M5 Carbon high-racer, and a single speed and an elliptical chainring.
This article involves the historical statistics of the National Games of China, starting with the first edition of the event hosted in 1959 by Beijing at Workers' Stadium.
The International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) restructured its weight classes in 1993, 1998, 2018 and 2025 nullifying earlier records.
The "Most recent holder" column shows the cyclist of the country that wore the yellow jersey most recently.
All major World Championships organized by Union Cycliste Internationale (International Cycling Union, UCI) are covered, as well as cycling events at the Olympic Games.
Main WTA Tour The longest match consisting of two standard sets and a match tie-break was played in the second qualifying round of a $25,000 ITF tournament in Darmstadt, Germany, on July 16, 2024.
These technical fouls are not for unsportsmanlike conduct, so they do not result in ejections from the game.
Men Women References General Danish records 12 January 2025 updated Specific External links Dansk Skøjte Union official website Dansk Skøjte Union records subpage
António Laureano - On 29 October 2020, Laureano, 18 at the time, rode a wave estimated by FMHUL to be around 101.4 feet (30.9 meters) at Praia do Norte.
Menow ended his career having bowed in both forelegs while finishing third to Seabiscuit in the Havre de Grace Handicap.
In the Merchants and Citizens Handicap, he carried 139 pounds to victory in August before a crowd of 25,000 including the Governors of New York and Pennsylvania.
A typical system awards a decreasing number of points for the top eight finishers, with eight points for first place, down to one point for eighth place.
Vincent, Abbey began his career with Arlesey Town, before spending a season each at both Baldock Town and Hitchin Town, before joining Cambridge United in February 2000.
The procedure is common among collegiate and professional athletes in several sports, particularly in baseball.
Incidental activities are encouraged, such as using the stairs instead of an escalator/lift or walking short distances instead of driving.
When listed on nutritional information tables, fats are generally divided into six categories: total fats, saturated fatty acid, polyunsaturated fatty acid, monounsaturated fatty acid, dietary cholesterol, and trans fatty acid.
It is published by Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, and is an official journal of the American College of Sports Medicine.
The result is that the levorotary l-ephedrine is wrongly named L-ephedrine and the dextrorotary d-pseudoephedrine (the diastereomer) wrongly D-pseudoephedrine.
Biomechanics Archived 2017-06-22 at the Wayback Machine History of Biomechanics - Ariel Dynamics Video Library Vicon | Products | Cameras Kistler - Sports and performance diagnostics Analysis - National Instruments PhysiMax | Products | Movement Performance 3D
Ryakhovskiy's record stood for less than a year, as it was improved by fellow Soviet Oleg Fedoseyev the following May.
Exertion traditionally connotes a strenuous or costly effort, resulting in generation of force, initiation of motion, or in the performance of work.
World Athletics has set strict rules and regulations for competition spikes/shoes worn in international races; this is to maintain the integrity of the sport while also allowing athletes to use some of the newest technology.
However, a later survey that they ran at an elite-level track and field event in USA showed similarly low levels (around 1%) of acceptance of the proposition of assured victory by illegal drug use followed by death.
The interaction between the neuromuscular system and the muscles is of particular importance in understanding the related physiological processes.
National Institute of Fitness and Sports in Kanoya (鹿屋体育大学, Kanoya Taiiku Daigaku) is a national university in Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan, founded in 1981.
Speed Bag Gloves: Created to prevent the hands from getting hurt while hitting the speed bag, these gloves are the lightest gloves, yet offer more protection than hand wraps alone.
A few years earlier, the first international e-journal on this topic (International Journal of Computer Science in Sport) was released.
In sports science theory, supercompensation refers to the post-training period during which the trained parameter has a higher performance capacity than it did prior to the training period.
A study from the Max Planck Institute for Human Cognition and Brain Sciences shows how music helps boost workouts.
By restricting the user's breathing, the devices may improve cardiorespiratory fitness, leading to better sport performance.
A Compendium of Physical Activities is available online, which provides MET values for hundreds of activities.
However, it was revealed in the days after Mainwaring's death, that Mainwaring had been battling depression after facing a lawsuit over a property deal went wrong.
This paradox challenges the common belief that more exercise equates to more calories burned and consequently, more weight loss.
"MoneyBART", the third episode of The Simpsons' 22nd season, in which Lisa utilizes sabermetrics to coach Bart's Little League Baseball team.
Since the length of the tendon increases due to the active stretch phase, if the series elastic component acts as a spring, it would therefore be storing more potential energy.
Freddie Fu, a professor of orthopedic surgery at the University of Pittsburgh, said more high-quality independent trials proving the procedure's effectiveness are needed before the FDA approves.
Family In 1913, he married Margaret Neville Keynes (1885-1974), daughter of the economist John Neville Keynes, and sister of the economist John Maynard Keynes and the surgeon Geoffrey Keynes.
There are a limited number of possible states, and so baseball win probability tools usually have enough data to make an informed estimate.
The leading causes of death in youth sports are sudden cardiac arrest, concussion, heat illness and external sickling.
At therapeutic doses, amphetamine causes emotional and cognitive effects such as euphoria, change in desire for sex, increased wakefulness, and improved cognitive control.
Implications The notion of a memory mechanism residing in muscle fibers might have implications for health related exercise advice, and for exclusion times after doping offences.
The system is designed to centralize and synchronize player performance information, allowing continuous monitoring and supporting evidence-based decision-making in Qatari football.
In America, sports play a big part of the American identity, however, sports science has slowly been replaced with exercise science.
Breathing heliox lowers expiratory airflow resistance, decreases dynamic hyperinflation, and prolongs exercise tolerance.
This is strengthened by the annual Congresses and other membership benefits such as the Montenegrin Journal of Sports Science and Medicine (MJSS), Email Newsletters, etc.
Sports leagues look to promote competitive balance to make more games appealing to fans to watch, both in person and on TV.
During fasted exercise, an increase in muscle protein breakdown causes the pre-exercise negative amino acid level to continue in the post exercise period despite increases in muscle protein synthesis.
The Borg scale can be compared to other linear scales such as the Likert scale or a visual analogue scale.
She is Professor of Applied Disability and Para sport and is Director of Peter Harrison Centre for Disability Sport at Loughborough University.
History The university opened in 1930 as the National Institute of Physical Education of Ukraine in Kharkiv.
the heart is able to regulate its output, to some extent, in accordance with the degree of saturation of the arterial blood ...
American football has many more possible states than baseball with far fewer games, so football estimates have a greater margin of error.
This advice is contradicted by the American College of Sports Medicine, which has previously recommended athletes drink "as much as tolerable." In October 2015, ACSM President W.
In 2009, he co-founded ThermoHuman, a company that uses infrared thermography to detect asymmetries in an athlete's skin temperature and identify injuries such as muscle overload, inflammation, or fatigue.
The size of adipose tissue is determined by the magnitude of nutrient competition from muscle and lungs for cell regeneration and energy replenishment after exercise.
Weighted clothing are garments that have heavy materials incorporated into them, to add weight to various parts of the body, usually as part of resistance training.
Concentric hypertrophy is a hypertrophic growth of a hollow organ without overall enlargement, in which the walls of the organ are thickened and its capacity or volume is diminished.
Instead, it encompasses a group of professionals from various disciplines whose focus is the health of an athlete.
Groin Guard (or No-Foul Protector): Protects the groin against low punches, offers more comprehensive protection than a simple 'cup' guard.
Since 1997, he was honored by the Institute of Sport and Sport Science with a prize named for him, which is awarded yearly for the best qualification work by a student.
Thus, the cause of the phenomenon began at that time to be addressed by the investigation of insanity.
Larder later criticised coach Andy Robinson for letting player power run the team in his 25-month period in charge.
Park factors (baseball) Because baseball allows for unique field dimensions, each stadium is prone to favoring certain outcomes, and thus can favor pitchers or hitters.
This result was consistent in his findings over a period from 1982 to 1995.cited in Because of the shocking implications they held around doping in sport, Mirkin's and Goldman's results were widely reported, but also criticized.
Although he was personally more interested in basketball, he was best known for his work on baseball.
The thick septum of the heart is not perforated and does not have visible pores as some people thought or invisible pores as Galen thought.
On average, rinsing with a 6–8% carbohydrate solution for around 10 seconds has been associated with a 2–3% improvement in performance, including enhanced motor skill execution and reduced ratings of perceived exertion.
When running, the Achilles tendon becomes stretched by flexion of the foot and stores some of that energy as elastic energy.
After surgery, it is recommended to continue keeping the ear clear of water, and in one study, using ciprofloxacin / hydrocortisone drops was recommended for one week post-surgery to avoid infection, and 90% of the study group had fully healed after four weeks.
Win probability is a statistical tool which suggests a sports team's chances of winning at any given point in a game, based on the performance of historical teams in the same situation.
Public activities Iermakov chaired the Expert Council of the Higher Attestation Commission of Ukraine (2006-2010), was a member of the Presidium of the Olympic Academy of Ukraine (2002-2007).
His second game did not come for nearly a month because of suspension and he played a total of only six games before he was released by manager Colin Todd.
Although the numeric total ranges from 0 to 21, FMS guidance emphasizes eliminating pain and asymmetries and achieving at least a score of 2 on each movement rather than simply maximizing the numeric total.
In a yielding isometric exercise the ambition is to maintain a particular body position; this may also be called maintaining an isometric hold.
In addition to being a Fellow of the American College of Sports Medicine, Drinkwater won a 1984 ACSM Citation Award and the 1996 ACSM Honor Award.
Menon contributed to the construction of the school's office and hostel complex, with additional support from Mohandas Pai, Kumari Shibulal, and Sudha Murty.
Mechanics The Stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) relies on a rapid transition from an eccentric phase to a concentric phase.
Publications Coombes has authored more than 400 peer-reviewed journal articles, nine book chapters, and several textbooks, including co-editing ESSA Student Manual for Health, Exercise and Sport Assessment and ESSA Student Manual for Exercise Prescription, Delivery and Adherence.
Academics NTUS has three colleges: Campuses Main Campus in North District, Taichung Closed Hsinchu Campus in Hsinchu County (1970–1980) Chiayi Campus in Puzi, Chiayi County (1998–2015) Student life Athletics The NTUS football club has participated in domestic football leagues since 1983.
Its duration of action orally is 2 to 4 hours and via intravenous or intramuscular injection is 60 minutes.
However his time at Carrow Road was marred by two career threatening knee injuries, causing him to miss most of the 2003–04 promotion season, though he was given a championship medal at the end of the season.
However, the water belt does not have the support of a lifejacket, so an unskilled swimmer needs supervision.
He returned in 1976 and managed the team for two years before moving to Víkingur until the Soviet authorities called the coach back to Moscow.
It starts every cycle of training from the macro-, meso- and microcycle after restoration and recovery.
The inability to establish a singular set of physiological contributions to blood lactate accumulation's effect on the exercising individual creates a correlative role for lactate threshold in marathon performance as opposed to a causal role.
The LZR Racer (pronounced as "Laser Racer") is a line of competition swimsuits manufactured by Speedo using a high-technology swimwear fabric composed of woven elastane-nylon and polyurethane.
Function Irisin (fibronectin type III domain-containing protein 5 or FNDC5), a recently described myokine hormone produced and secreted by acutely exercising skeletal muscles, is thought to bind white adipose tissue cells via undetermined receptors.
As of 2024 there are a number of important locations where sports economics is taught and researched by a group of faculty.
Tachyphylaxis is known to develop with prolonged use of pseudoephedrine, especially when it is re-administered at short intervals.
Orthokine differs from a similar procedure with platelet-rich plasma (PRP), where platelets are targeted instead of the interleukin antagonist.
The general assumption in sports science had therefore been that muscle strength exercises as well as cardiovascular training would be sufficient for an optimal training of the associate fibrous connective tissues.
The competitive sports that promote this physical leanness may result in disordered eating and be responsible for the origin of the female athlete triad.
Treatment Outside of symptom relief, the only treatment is surgical removal of the formed exostoses.
Tintu Luka (class of 2002) – Olympian, Multiple Asian Games Medalist, Multiple Asian Championship medalist, National Record Holder for 800m, recipient of the Arjuna Award in 2014.
The way an organization is portrayed by the media, true or not, can also greatly alter the way the public perceives them.
Walking school bus Walking buses have students walking to their designated stops, but they are then chaperoned to school by people walking on foot, rather than taking the school bus.
In the next ten years, school added night school and Hsinchu campus (for five-year programs), but Hsinchu campus closed in 1980 and move back to Taichung.
On 24 October 2013, a commemorative plaque was unveiled by the Association of Jewish Refugees (AJR) at the National Spinal Injuries Centre to celebrate Guttmann's life and work.
The prevalence of depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, and sleep disturbances in patients with chronic urticaria has been estimated to be 37%, 46%, and 53%, respectively.
This increase in pumping ability is the result of the addition of sarcomeres in series, which enables the heart to contract with greater force.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a cognitive disorder, which may occur after a traumatic event.
Three-element model The three-element Hill muscle model is a representation of the muscle mechanical response.
He earned a doctorate from the University of Tübingen, and subsequently taught sport management at SRH University Heidelberg while also advising professional football clubs.
The studies have shown that at a given workload, pH and blood bicarbonate concentrations were higher, whereas lactate concentrations had a tendency to decrease.
The current record was settled during the 2012 Summer Olympics by Van Dijk, Kirsten Wild and Vera Koedooder in a time of 3:20.013 (53.996 km/h) on 4 August 2012.
Muscle strengthening using exercises that involve eccentric contractions is lower than using concentric exercises.
Another related analogue is dimethylamphetamine (N,N-dimethylamphetamine), which is said to be a prodrug of methamphetamine and/or amphetamine.
In 1987, he compiled historical developments of Nautilus equipment and wrote video scripts for detailed Nautilus education.
The exercise paradox, also known as the workout paradox, refers to the finding that physical activity, while essential for maintaining overall health, does not necessarily lead to significant weight loss or increased calorie expenditure.
Following brief spells as Academy Manager for Notts County in 2017 and Assistant Head of Player Development for Tottenham Hotspur, Goodman announced he was joining Milton Keynes Dons as the club's Academy Manager on 8 April 2019.
August Krogh (1874–1949) Won the 1920 Nobel Prize in physiology for discovering the mechanism that controlled capillary blood flow in resting or active muscle.
During the 1990s was asked to treat the Italian prime minister and the Italian Serie A side Milan owner Silvio Berlusconi's backaches.
At these doses, it induces physical effects such as a faster reaction time, fatigue resistance, and increased muscle strength.
Lung capacity With adaptation, lung capacity increases, allowing a greater quantity of air to move in and out.
After leaving Nautilus, Hutchins established his own exercise practice, continuing to develop the Super Slow techniques and eventually publishing several editions of a technical manual for the application of Super Slow exercise.
The annual plan The annual plan is important in that it directs and guides performance training over a year.
Between 2001 and 2008, Isokinetic expanded its domestic operations by opening clinics in Milan, Turin, Verona, Rome, and Rimini.
The team eventually went on to comfortably win the league with a game to go, but subsequently lost the national play-off semi-final to Cardiff City.
He was retrospectively capped for England for a game against Italy in Rovigo in 1990, at the time this was considered uncapped.
Cleaning products Lactic acid is used in some liquid cleaners as a descaling agent for removing hard water deposits such as calcium carbonate.
As exercise intensities increase, the muscles increase the amount of oxygen they extract from the blood, and this therefore results in further increases in a-vO2 diff.
Overview The kettlebell is swung from just below the groin to somewhere between the upper abdomen and shoulders, with arms straight or slightly bent, the degree of flexion depends on the trajectory of the kettlebell.
The test involves performing steady, submaximal exercise on a cycle ergometer at gradually increasing intensity (incremental exercise) while monitoring heart rate.
These include: hormone balancing, replenishment of fuel stores, cellular repair, innervation, and anabolism.
Drinking too much water before, during, or after extreme exercise (such as a marathon) can cause nausea, diarrhea, confusion, and muscle tremors.
For western riding, closely fitted jeans with no heavy inner seam, sometimes combined with chaps, are preferred.
The technology was used during a highly scrutinized open competition to identify a replacement following the team’s season-ending missed field goal in the previous year's wild card playoff game.
It is a regulatory requirement that the label of most prepackaged foods must declare a list of ingredients, including food additives such as caffeine, in descending order of proportion.
Some clearing procedures (for example, the Inline Lunge ankle mobility setup) use an ancillary green/yellow/red notation for mobility but pain still produces a 0 for scoring purposes.
Description The most common subjects are underwater divers because in deep dives pressures can increase by several atmospheres, and military pilots because of rapid changes.
Katsuura Station can be reached from Tokyo Station: 1.5 hours by direct express train Wakashio, or 2.5 hours by local train with a transfer at Soga Station The campus is a 15-minute walk from the station.
In the team pursuit, Van Dijk finished sixth together with Kirsten Wild, Amy Pieters and Vera Koedooder.
Its broad range of course offerings caters to amateur athletes, professional athletes representing the national team and accredited physical education teachers.
The TrackMan uses Doppler radar to measure maximum velocity, which is defined at the release point of the pitch.
References External links Hip Pointer Homepage Archived 2010-08-14 at the Wayback Machine Photo displaying the injury
Starting in 1960, he laid the foundations of new training methods for performance athletes, which were first published in the journal "Studies and Research" Politehnica University of Timișoara.
These conditions occur most in professional athletes, in sports such as football, ice hockey and rugby.
Early life and academic career Christian Keller was born on 26 November 1976 in Donaueschingen in the German state of Baden-Württemberg.
In subacute (i.e., between acute and chronic) lower back pain, the McKenzie method has not been shown to produce a significant reduction of symptoms nor disability.
Life Born in Fellbach, Gollhofer studied sports science, physics and performance physiology at the Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg.
There are many diseases like this, and they all fall under the category of hereditary sensory autonomic neuropathies.
The 14th Dalai Lama also stated that the oracle could barely walk with the total weight of his 32 kg (70 lb) outfit when not in trance.
Psychologist Lenny Maietta (1950-2018) developed a handling training program for young parents that was also based on behavioral cybernetics.
at Department of Psychology, Stockholm University More detailed description of the Borg scale at the U.S.
At the end of the season, Van Dijk was a reserve at the road world championships but she did not race.
Treatment Two types of treatment options are typically available: Surgery Conservative treatment (rehabilitation and physical therapy) Surgery may impede normal growth of structures in the knee, so doctors generally do not recommend knee operations for young people who are still growing.
In 2002, he and Adriano Galliani founded Milan Lab, the football science center of Italian Serie A side Milan.
The increasing popularity and results garnered by super shoes have allowed companies to push technological boundaries, allowing athletes to continue pushing limits.
Randomized controlled trials of continuous stimulant therapy for the treatment of ADHD spanning 2 years have demonstrated treatment effectiveness and safety.
Later life After the war he rebuilt his laboratory at University College and vigorously carried on research.
The Sports Training Block provides facilities for athletics, football, hockey, volleyball, cricket, judo, boxing, and taekwondo.
This is a result of aerobic exercise leading to hypertrophy of the slow twitch muscle fibres mainly due to increased capillarisation.
A sports medicine specialist works to help make the performance of the athlete more advanced, as well as ensuring their safety while performing the activity.
The decrease in sodium levels can occur due to a defect in the renal and hormonal systems, an overwhelming increase in water consumption and excessive loss of sodium through sweating.
In most cases, aquajogging is more suitable than swimming for people suffering from neck and shoulder tension, as many do not know the correct swimming techniques.
In December 2016 and December 2017, Hoy supported the Scottish social enterprise Social Bite by sleeping out at their Sleep in the Park events to raise money for homeless people.
Limbs are a greater distance from a person's center of mass, so they have greater rotational inertia compared to the rest of the body.
The Gathering demonstrated the impact of the AFL industry on mental health, that goes well beyond awareness raising.
Publishing initiative In 1994 Platonov initiated the establishment of the university press Olympic Literature (Олімпійська література).
Research activities encompass both basic and applied studies, addressing topics like health, performance, education, and social aspects of sport.
Uses Medical Amphetamine is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), narcolepsy, and, in the form of lisdexamfetamine, binge eating disorder.
Such causes can be bony structures such as subacromial spurs (bony projections from the acromion), osteoarthritic spurs on the acromioclavicular joint, and variations in the shape of the acromion.
In skeletal muscle, glycerol is used in glycolysis by converting glycerol into glycerol-3-phosphate, then into dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP), then into glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate.
Findings from these trials have contributed to national position statements on exercise in relation to kidney disease, diabetes, hypertension, and pregnancy, which he co-authored.
Studies have reported performance improvements of approximately 2–3% in various athletic contexts, though results vary depending on exercise type, environmental conditions, and individual sensitivity to carbohydrate taste.
Some individuals can have very mild symptoms that may not be taken as herpes symptoms and the patient may not recognize them.
In organic chemistry, N-methylephedrine is used as a resolving agent and as a precursor to chiral supporting electrolytes, phase-transfer catalysts, and reducing agents.
At the start of the 2009–10 season, he returned to Arlesey Town where he was appointed player/assistant manager.
On the first test, people with ME/CFS exhibit lower performance and heart rate, and on the second test, performance is even lower, while for controls, it is the same or slightly better.
Since the RMR of a person depends mainly on lean body mass (and not total weight) and other physiological factors such as health status and age, actual RMR (and thus 1-MET energy equivalents) may vary significantly from the kcal/(kg·h) rule of thumb.
A couple of physicians are promoting an alternative treatment implanting autologous mesenchymal stem cells directly into the cartilage defect, without having to penetrate the subchondral bone.
It has been reported that he worked in Bulgaria, East Germany and Poland, though he may have worked or taught Physical education at universities in those countries.
In the television show Numb3rs, the season 3 episode "Hardball" focuses on sabermetrics, and the season 1 episode "Sacrifice" also covers the subject.
Respiratory Muscle Training (RMT) is a training method developed to condition the muscles of respiration specifically.
This triggers signals from the motor cortex that stimulate the respiratory center of the brain stem, in conjunction with feedback from the proprioreceptors in the muscles and joints of the active limbs.
Some evidence from basketball (NBA) demonstrates that TTB can predict the game results as well as an optimizing model based on Bayes' rule.
The team physician for a sports team is the physician who is in charge of coordinating the medical staff and medical services for a sports team.
Godha Varma Raja, known as the "Father of Sports in Kerala," to honor his contributions to sports promotion in the state.
Since eating protein and carbohydrates immediately after exercising is known to reduce MPB, it is also assumed that this will increase lean muscle mass by increasing the net protein balance.
It was founded as the Royal Central Gymnastics Institute (Swedish: Kungliga Gymnastiska Centralinstitutet, GCI) in 1813 by Per Henrik Ling, which makes it the oldest university college in the world within the field of human movement sciences.
A 39 nanograms/mL peak serum concentration of methylphenidate has been found to occur between 7.5–10.5 hours after administration.
Scientists started to analyze sports games by collecting and looking at such values and features in order to interpret them.
The athlete is required to squat down to at least 60° of knee flexion and return to the start position within 6 seconds.
In December 1975, she told Sports Illustrated that the Fosbury flop, a jumping style used in the high jump, is "no good for women".
See also Aerobic exercise Bioenergetic systems Citric acid cycle Cori cycle Margaria-Kalamen power test Pushups Strength training Weight training == References ==
Research has been conducted to explore the level of association between kinesiophobia and pain in people with chronic musculoskeletal pain (CMP).
The external force on the muscle is less than the force the muscle is generating - a shortening contraction.
Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews is a quarterly peer-reviewed review journal covering sports medicine and exercise science.
Nevertheless, because of the fear of SCD and occupational requirement to train and compete at extremely high intensity in professional and elite sport, screening is established as a standard of care in many countries of the world.
Stimulants such as amphetamine can improve performance on difficult and boring tasks and are used by some students as a study and test-taking aid.
The FNPP brought together experts in anatomy, dissection, and plastination, and it was the first project of its kind to plastinate a complete human fascia specimen.
A typical combination involves a striking-based art such as Muay Thai, combined with a grappling-based art such as wrestling and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu.
Study The German Sport University Cologne offers degree programs in the field of sport and exercise sciences.
It has also been used in combinations under brand names including Allerest, Demazin, Dimetapp, and Sinarest, among others.
Although this process is postulated as a model for recovery, some of its parameters are not fully understood from a fundamental perspective.
The underlying commonality in these disease states is an increase in pressures that the ventricles experience.
The prognosis for cats with FATE is often poor as they are likely to have significant hypertrophic cardiomyopathy already and a recurrent bout of FATE is likely.
He is particularly noted for playing in a back row with England internationals Dean Richards at number eight and Neil Back at openside.
Accordingly, the increase in fitness following a training session does not stop at the initial fitness level.
Thus, during exercise with hypoventilation, the blood and muscle acid–base homeostasis is highly disturbed.
Changes in the stress and recovery of injured versus non-injured amateur domestic women's rugby union team players over a competition season in New Zealand.
In August 2012, he was guest of honour at the Rugby league Challenge Cup Final between Warrington Wolves and Leeds Rhinos at Wembley.
The Montenegrin Sports Academy (MSA) is a sport scientific society founded in 2003 in Podgorica, Montenegro, dedicated to the collection, generation and dissemination of scientific knowledge in the multidisciplinary area of sports sciences.
She started working with Paralympic athletes in 1994, and attended the 1996 Summer Paralympics, 2000 Summer Paralympics and the 2012 Summer Paralympics.
Special populations included in the 2019 Systematic review included type 2 diabetic patients and post-menopausal women, bodybuilders, athletes, and resistance trained populations.
Another, non-obstructive variant of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (AHCM or ApHCM), also called Yamaguchi syndrome.
Similarly, in healthy individuals the response of the diastolic pressure to 'dynamic' exercise (e.g.
It should be practised with a good ground connection for stability and power production; a flat sole shoe or barefoot is preferred when performing swings.
Football In 2019, the Chicago Bears became the first NFL team to incorporate the TrackMan tracking system into their evaluation of field goal kickers.
Kinesiophobia can be a factor in increased time to return to participation in pre-injury activities.
In 1911, caffeine became the focus of one of the earliest documented health scares, when the US government seized 40 barrels and 20 kegs of Coca-Cola syrup in Chattanooga, Tennessee, alleging the caffeine in its drink was "injurious to health".
Xiong Fei, professional footballer, after being kicked in the head by Shanghai Shenhua FC teammate Li Jianbin, October 17, 2015.
Appearing in the 6th century, during the Byzantine period it referred to an inn or trading house for foreign merchants, akin to a caravanserai.
The main improvement in this game is that the board itself actually helps influence the outcome of the game: the game board is shaken before playing commences, and pieces that are distributed internally then determine which" holes" are dry wells or gushers.
The most notable exception to this is Everton F.C., whose close rivalry with city neighbours Liverpool has meant that neither the club nor its fans would ever refer to the ground as having a Kop section.
In this role, Rose headed up the league's babysitting program, which employed about 150 men to steer college prospects away from the rival American Football League.
A women's football match in 1921 used floodlights, when Preston North End's ground was covered in thick fog and the spectators couldn't see the game.
He and his wife were a father and mother figure to the Falcons, and sailed with them aboard SS Melita from Saint John to Liverpool, then onto Antwerp.
Some facilities (for example SeatGeek Stadium, Toyota Stadium and Historic Crew Stadium) have a permanent stage at one end of the stadium used for staging concerts.
acquired the Stanley Company, Balmer served as the district manager for their theaters in West Virginia.
The sport involves organized competitions and events run by its international governing body, the IFBA.
Surface Due to possible injuries caused to players moving at high speed by marking, jumping, turning and being tackled without protective padding, the playing field standards imply use of lawn as a surface.
The rink A standard long track speed skating track is, according to the regulations of the International Skating Union (ISU), a double-laned track with two curved ends each of 180°, in which the radius of the inner curve is not less than 25 metres and not more than 26 metres.
The Emirates Airline Dubai Sevens is a round of the World Rugby Sevens Series which has been held at The Sevens annually since 2008.
Other Apart from sports there will be Financial Centre, Entertainment Centre, Education Centre, Residential area and Civil Centre for commercial / retail / residential uses.
As his mentor Pope had done at Yale University, Smith revised a long term campus master plan for The Ohio State University.
Women In professional sumo, women are not allowed to enter or touch the dohyō, a tradition stemming from Shinto and Buddhist beliefs that women are "impure" because of menstrual blood.
In 1981, Coventry City converted Highfield Road to all-seating, the first club in England to do so, at the instigation of the then chairman, Jimmy Hill.
Cole (1924 – March 12, 2013) was an American architect and principal of the EwingCole architectural firm.
Simultaneously, the Assembly of Representatives declared June 23 as a Day of Mourning, during which the club's facilities remain closed.
The Magyar Nemzetkozi Motodrome (English: Hungarian National Motodrome) was a planned motorsport racetrack project in Hajdúnánás, Debrecen, Hajdú-Bihar County, Hungary.
However, there are numerous grounds – particularly those built more recently – which were built with Australian rules football as the primary intended purpose, but upon which other sports, including cricket, have been played.
As a sports surface, Redgra allowed for year-round use with minimal maintenance in academic and practice settings, and allowed for multi-sport use as tennis courts.
Clay courts are cheaper to construct than other types of tennis courts, but a clay surface costs more to maintain.
The field of play generally includes out-of-bounds areas that a player is likely to enter while playing a match, such as the area beyond the touchlines in association football and rugby or the sidelines in American and Canadian football, or the "foul territory" in baseball.
A basketball ground has seating capacity of 250 people where handball and volleyball matches can also be held.
As a modern organized sport, it was available as an Paralympic sport between 1980–1988 and 1994–1998.
A Matratzenlager ("mattress room"), sometimes called Massenlager or Touristenlager, is the simplest and cheapest type of sleeping accommodation offered in mountain huts.
Chain link fencing may also be incorporated into the wall in areas where the wall needs to be transparent, e.g., an outfield bullpen, a spectator area behind the wall, or to protect a scoreboard incorporated into the wall.
Wichita Collegiate School, Wichita – 2011 Circle District Stadium, Towanda, Kansas, used by Circle High School and Circle Recreation athletic teams.
In December 1986, the San Antonio Spurs unveiled the first indoor arena JumboTron scoreboard at the now-demolished HemisFair Arena.
In America, the USA Rink Bandy League, uses five players instead of the usual six because of the smaller ice hockey rinks in the USA.
Description One end of the hippodromos of the Ancient Greeks was semicircular, while the other was a quadrilateral with an extensive portico.
However, in 2017 the Federation of International Bandy decided to hold an international tournament for developing bandy countries in Nymburk, Czech Republic and an international rink bandy club competition called Dniprobandy has been organised by the Ukrainian Bandy and Rink bandy Federation.
A sports columnist wrote that Clark's "exhibition of stamina, endurance and stellar play in this contest was the greatest I have ever seen in forty years of observation." He was also the left fielder on Harvard's baseball team.
That such a disaster only occurred once during this era is amazing as it was common in those days to see a fainted fan being passed down the terraces over the heads of those packed in so they could be treated for their ill effects.
He was also the longtime general manager of the Harris-owned Pittsburgh Hornets of the American Hockey League and served as league president from 1961 to 1964.
International tournaments This section lists the attendances at international competitions between national teams and individuals, for its most recent event.
In 2012, The Telegraph reported that the complex had cost ₹149 crore (US$18 million), and that there had been "negligible" use of the infrastructure since the 2007 games.
For the clinching Game 6 of the Finals, further space was designated to expand capacity to 65,000 fans; even then, crowds were turned back before halftime.
The FA lists four main characteristics of a good grass pitch: Adequate grass coverage Low level of weeds Flat Good drainage Football pitch technology has moved forward tremendously since the 1970s/1980s, when it was found that by December, almost all pitches turned into mud baths.
History The first major competition on the hill was the pre-tournament for the 1948 Winter Olympics.
LuLu Group’s flagship Lulu Hypermarket and indoor family entertainment centre Funtura became major attractions for visitors.
He arranged for an executive meeting to deal with the application, and later admitted the Brandon team when eight of nine executive members voted in favour.
It specifies, "For areas having fixed seating without dividing arms, the occupant load shall not be less than the number of seats based on one person for each 18 inches (457 mm) of seating length".
He returned to managing the Millers in 1933, and worked his way up to be president of the Minneapolis Arena.
That helped form these personalities that were already pretty opposite, and then we had to find that Venn diagram of where they overlapped.
When an MMA or boxing bout concludes, the ring announcer announces the winner, time of finish and method.
The Los Angeles Kings played two home games, one against the New York Rangers at Ericsson Globe in Stockholm, Sweden, and one against the Buffalo Sabres at O2 World in Berlin, Germany.
The facilities have three changing rooms, several toilets, two bars, various premises, offices, a room and a press box.
4 million or more home attendance totals Toronto Blue Jays became the first team in baseball history to draw 4 million mark in attendance in 1991 season.
The rule was aimed at reducing the effectiveness of goaltenders with good puck-handling abilities, such as former New Jersey Devils and St.
Seating capacity of venues also plays a role in what media they are able to provide and how they are able to provide it.
In general, a ground belongs only to the batter who is closest to it, and stays so until the other batter gets closer to it.
Zachary Taylor Davis (May 26, 1869 – December 16, 1946) was the architect of several major Chicago buildings, including St.
The sport remained popular during the Great Depression and, by 1939, there were 4,600 bowling alleys across the United States.
WWE trademarked the "Dudley Boyz" name, leading them to have to change their name when they went to TNA.
Some venues issue standing-room-only (or SRO) tickets for a reduced cost since it can become uncomfortable to stand through the course of an event.
Hewitt became steward at the Thorncliffe Park Raceway in 1917, then later at the Devonshire Raceway and Kenilworth Park Racetrack in Windsor, and at Stamford Park in Niagara Falls.
References External links Balatonring non-official homepage (in Hungarian, archived) German Blog about Balatonring
See also Lulu International Shopping Mall, Thiruvananthapuram Lulu International Shopping Mall, Kochi References External links LuLu Shopping Mall
The venue was used for the normal hill competitions during the 1964 and 1976 Winter Olympics, and for the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships in 1985 and 2019.
For running tracks, many cinder surfaces have been replaced by all-weather synthetic surfaces, which provide greater durability and more consistent results, and are less stressful on runners.
References External links IFBA official website Slovenian Broomball official site USA Broomball official site Broomball Canada official site Japan Broomball site usbabroomball Broomballing!, Passport Moscow magazine, January 2006 edition.
He won many trophies as an amateur golfer, and was considered to be an exceptional pocket billiards player, playing exhibitions with many world champions.
In league each team can be tackled six times before handing over possession; moreover, the action stops after each successful tackle (i.e., the ball is not contested after a tackle).
The nightly charge publicized on a poster in the hut is paid either by putting it in the money box of the winter room or may be bank-transferred directly to the branch of the Alpine Club that owns the hut.
Because the actual values have, in general, not changed since the early twentieth century, they tend to be round numbers in imperial units (for example the width of the goal, unchanged since 1863, is 8 yards (7.32 metres)).
The on-deck circle is either an area composed of bare dirt; a plain circle painted onto artificial turf; or often, especially at the professional level, made from artificial material, with a team or league logo painted onto it.
The skylight's pointed arch geometry allowed natural light into the interior while providing protection and reducing energy demand.
Sohn Kee-chung Park (Korean: 손기정공원; Hanja: 孫基禎公園) is a public park in Malli-dong, Jung District, Seoul, South Korea.
Arianny Celeste, Rachelle Leah, Brittney Palmer, Carly Baker, Vanessa Hanson, Chrissy Blair, Jhenny Andrade, Camila Oliveira, Luciana Andrade, Jamilette Gaxiola, and Red Dela Cruz are Octagon girls.
See also The dictionary definition of nosebleed seat at Wiktionary Peanut gallery The gods (theatrical) Bleachers == References ==
A winter room (German: Winterraum) is found in mountain huts used by tourists that are not managed in the winter.
Many stadiums had a running track around the perimeter of the pitch allowing them to be used for athletics.
In 1943, he took over the operation of the Aqua Follies with business partner Al Sheehan, and made it into a profitable business within the annual summer Minneapolis Aquatennial.
Common structure The classic bullring is an enclosed, roughly circular amphitheatre with tiered rows of stands that surround an open central space.
There are a total of 16 bobsleigh, luge, and skeleton tracks around the world in use for competitions.
Currently not even under construction, the circuit was designed to host the Hungarian motorcycle Grand Prix from 2023 and onwards.
Contracted amounts generally have to be declared to the state athletic commission; however, the UFC also pays undisclosed locker-room bonuses to fighters.
This coincided with a post-war boom in motorsport, and many airfields were converted to race tracks, where the circuit layout usually combined parts of the runways and the surrounding perimeter taxiways.
When addressed about similarities, Sohn denied that Elemental is inspired by Avatar: The Last Airbender (2005–2008), despite their shared concept of personifying classical elements.
In some sports, for example cricket and rugby union, international competitions and transnational club competitions provide a significant part of total attendances and revenue.
It is the only membership organization serving the breadth of the service arm of the Green Industry which professionals can join as individuals.
A common tongue-in-cheek reference to having seats in the upper tiers of a stadium (sometimes described as being in the rafters, although this word technically describes a structure with a specific function) is "sitting in the nosebleed section", or "nosebleed seats".
It was managed by the Forestry Bureau (now the Forestry and Nature Conservation Agency) and had a kitchen, a gas stove for cooking, and a diesel generator that provided electricity at night.
Sports Sports MUGAs usually consist of a combination of a steel goal post and a basketball goal post.
Career Cox commenced his first practice with Ian McKay in 1962, and in 1967 he founded his own practice, Philip Cox and Associates.
Carew described how goals were made: "they pitch two bushes in the ground, some eight or ten foote asunder; and directly against them, ten or twelue [twelve] score off, other twayne in like distance, which they terme their Goales".
This foundation was founded by Iwamoto Kaoru (1902–1999), donating 530 million yen from his own means.
Wrigley Field in Chicago Formerly named Major League (MLB, NFL, NBA, NHL, MLS) venues Full names Brendan Byrne Arena in East Rutherford, New Jersey.
All-seater stadiums have been compulsory in the English Premiership since the start of the 1994–95 season as a result of the Taylor Report (also known as the Hillsborough Stadium Disaster Inquiry report), which gave recommendations to improve stadium safety after the Hillsborough disaster.
Career Madison Square Garden Dunn began his association with Madison Square Garden as a phone operator in the superintendents office.
Lim's administration sought an open tender process to assess PISA's valuation and to appoint a new operator for the facility.
The Big Banana is a tourist attraction and amusement park in the city of Coffs Harbour, New South Wales, Australia.
The walls of a lower attachment and the semi-basement floor have a thickness of 1.5 m (4.9 ft), while upper floors - 1 m (3.3 ft).
Boston Bruins Powers was also vice president and treasurer of the Boston Bruins and vice president of the Bruins' American Hockey League affiliate, the Boston Braves.
Recent developments 2022 Upgrades: Installed energy-efficient LED lighting and improved accessibility.
There still are professional fields without a proper warning track, however, such as Rogers Centre and Tropicana Field, which use brown-colored turf.
The McCormick Recreation Centre opened at the north end of the property in 1912 at 163 Brock Avenue.
The longer perimeter edges are called the side line, the opposing shorter edges are referred to as the back line and the portion of this between the goal posts is known as the goal line.
His proposal was based on a report by the Committee of Sporting Singapore calling for the city-state to promote a culture of sports, and replace the aging National Stadium.
National Bank of Pakistan Sports Complex, also known as NBP Sports Complex, is a sports complex located in Clifton, Karachi, Pakistan.
He also served an advisory director for a number of exhibitions held in New York City's Grand Central Palace.
Common materials for the warning track include dirt or rubber; it should always be of a different material than the playing field.
Catches are most likely to arise from shots that have been 'skied' (in cricket) or 'popped ' (in baseball and softball).
At first, people roller skated at home, but within twenty years businesses dedicated to the activity began to spring up.
Orthopaedics A type of splint is used for upper limb to produce gradual stretching over contracted joint by its turn buckle mechanism.
In bat and ball games In baseball, softball and cricket, fielders in the outfield have more ground to cover than infielders, but also more time before the ball reaches them.
An indoor practice facility is a specialized structure designed to provide athletes with a controlled environment for training and practice sessions indoors.
A more drastic change sometimes occurs when a wrestler turns heroic or villainous, such as when Hulk Hogan joined the villainous nWo (New World Order) and became "Hollywood" Hulk Hogan.
If a one-on-one tackle is attempted, the tackler can legally strip the ball from the attacking player as long as the referee has not called "held" or the attacking player has fallen to the ground to indicate a completed tackle.
It is important in the context of association football in the United Kingdom, where a series of fatal incidents led to legislation requiring major clubs to develop all-seater stadiums during the 1990s.
He also was an owner of the Cincinnati Royals of the National Basketball League, as well as the Buffalo Bisons and the Providence Reds of the American Hockey League and was an operating manager of the Buffalo Memorial Auditorium.
Sollenberger brought many famous entertainers to Hershey: Fred Waring, Victor Borge, Sonja Henie, Tallulah Bankhead and Eleanor Holm all knew him as "JB".
PEPS opened in 1970 and includes an outdoor stadium (Telus Stadium), an indoor stadium, two indoor swimming pools (aquatic centre), basketball and tennis courts, a fitness centre, and two hockey arenas.
To prepare for the project, Davis toured ballparks around the country with White Sox pitcher Ed Walsh.
Formula One attendance represents cumulative weekend attendance; in 2025, the highest race-day attendance was 168,000 at the British Grand Prix.
The hill was featured in competitions at the 1929, 1939, and 1962 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships, as well as the 2001 Winter Universiade.
While shelters have long existed in mountains, modern hut systems date back to the mid-19th century.
The Maccabiah bridge collapse was the catastrophic failure of a pedestrian bridge over the Yarkon River in Tel Aviv, Israel on July 14, 1997.
There are all these ingredients to what we already perceive as fire, and that started to form Ember's personality.
Dumurjala Sports City (or Dumurjala Sports Complex) is a sports complex of 56 acres in Dumurjala, Howrah, West Bengal, India.
The winter room, unlike the rest of the hut, is easily accessible and usually is either not locked or is accessible with an Alpine Club key.
The incident occurred when a local gangster known as Abdi Madobe set fire to a Kenya Defence Forces camp in the Northern Frontier District, killing soldiers.
Total ₹5 crore (US$590,000) was financed by the Government of Gujarat while rest of the ₹4 crore (US$470,000) was received from the Fourteenth Finance Commission.
Deaton only ever earned his high school diploma but studied structural engineering, industrial design and architecture on his own, earning certification.
During the 2006 Winter Olympics, it hosted the ski jumping and the ski jumping part of the Nordic combined events.
Management In 1962, Toledo surrendered its IHL franchise and Mulligan was appointed commissioner of the league.
Over the course of history, the existence of over eight thousand ski jumping hills in 48 countries was documented.
Educational Architecture in Ohio: From One-room Schools and Carnegie Libraries to Community Education Villages Kent State University Press, 2001 External links The Birth of Ohio Stadium, The Men Behind the Stadium, WOSU-TV Deprecated link archived 2013-04-16 at archive.today
Indoor rinks provides a more stable climate for the ice and thus better, more reliable surfaces, but many fans of the sport claim they take away much of the traditional feeling around the game, where the weather was a factor to consider for the teams.
This list of closed stadiums by capacity shows demolished, unused, or otherwise closed sports stadiums ordered by their capacity, that is the maximum number of spectators that the stadium could accommodate seated.
The flying lap was formally part of the Omnium event, but is now reserved for the qualification stage of match sprint events to determine seeding.
He also promoted the Garden's events at Rockingham Park in Salem, New Hampshire, which included the New England States Fair, automobile races, and Grand Circuit harness racing stakes races.
Tyrrell was also involved in rodeos, bringing Gene Autry and his rodeo for the first time to Philadelphia.
He hired former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Norm Van Brocklin to serve as the team's first coach.
Under his leadership, the Reds won eight AHL division titles and four Calder Cup championships (1938, 1940, 1949, 1956).
If the border is frozen to the ice during play, this can be hazardous to the players, and the referee can therefore decide to start or continue the game without such border.
Reactions President of South Korea, Moon Jae-in, voiced "deep sorrow", along with the Prime Minister of South Korea, Lee Nak-yeon, vowed to expedite the dispatching of rescue services to the location.
In order for Lotus to overtake Ferrari at this point, one of their drivers had to win both this race and the final race of the season, the 1961 United States Grand Prix.
Jack Espey was an American sports executive who served as general manager of the Washington Redskins, Miami Seahawks, and Baltimore Colts.
Membership Membership of the IOG is divided into three sectors: Individual, Associate, and Corporate.
The impact on performance as a result of differing track surfaces is a topic often raised when comparing athletes from different eras.
It's 5,000 acres of area comprises various sports venues like international standard cricket stadium, a hockey stadium and an international circuit for F1 races.
The term grandstanding, from the notion of playing to the people in the grandstands, is often used as a pejorative to describe someone intent on drawing attention to themself.
A net is stretched across the full width of the court, parallel with the baselines, dividing it into two equal ends.
The Tremplin Olympique du Mont (English: Olympic jumping hill of Le Mont) was a ski jumping venue constructed for the 1924 Winter Olympics in Chamonix, France.
The song commences with: The song further features other references to the "nosebleed section" as the "front row" throughout the song.
He posted updates over Twitter which attracted international media coverage and concern from Chinese netizens and international communities.
He was reelected in June 1953, but two months later, the Flyers folded and Jones resigned as league president.
Abed in Amozoc, Puebla Estadio de Béisbol Alberto Romo Chávez in Aguascalientes Estadio de Béisbol Beto Ávila in Cancún Eduardo Vasconcelos Stadium in Oaxaca Estadio de Béisbol Francisco I.
Many Tartan tracks were installed worldwide, including at many of the top universities in the United States.
It allows for a faster game, as the ball is more likely to stay in play instead of easily leaving the field, which means it would have to be collected and thrown in.
Wielka Krokiew (The Great Krokiew) is the biggest ski jumping hill built on the slope of Krokiew mountain (1378 m) in Zakopane, Poland.
He is known for combining the sports environment with entertainment, often incorporating retractable roofs and numerous display screens into his designs.
Michael Sheridan of The Australian suggested that Ai had offered himself to the authorities on a platter with some of his provocative art, particularly photographs of himself nude with only a toy alpaca hiding his genitals – with a caption『草泥马挡中央』 ("grass mud horse covering the middle").
See also Infield Fielding (cricket) Baseball field Total Football Outfielder, for more information about the baseball fielding positions in the outfield.
The complex is also used by the elementary school Änglagårdsskolan connected to IFK Göteborg, the sports gymnasium Aspero Idrottsgymnasium and the football academy of IFK Göteborg.
His other works include the Masterplan and new Warner Stand at Lord's, the concept design for the Coca Arena in Dubai, the Riverside Stand at Fulham Football Club and most recently the Masterplan for the Allianz Stadium, Twickenham.
These venues include: Ayers Cliff Fair, Nouvelle Fair, Ormstown Fair, St Aime Des Lacs Fair, and St Joseph De Lepage Fair in Quebec; Miami Fair in Manitoba; and Woodstock Raceway-Connell Park in New Brunswick.
The hill was later renovated and expanded ahead of the FIS Ski-Flying World Championships 1977 and again ahead of the FIS Ski-Flying World Championships 1990.
See also List of cricket grounds in Pakistan References External links State Bank of Pakistan Sports Complex at CricketArchive
Borderite Stadium is an outdoor multipurpose stadium in the Northwestern United States, located on the campus of Blaine High School in Blaine, Washington.
Organizers of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang announced that a scheduled visit by the Olympic torch relay to Jecheon would be cancelled, and the route revised, due to the incident.
Demise Eventually Main Events stopped promoting boxing events at Ice World, and the loss of the Devils to South Mountain Arena also hurt the revenue stream.
Purpose and facilities They provide hikers and climbers with accommodation and shelter, mainly in the Alpine region.
The "track" part of the term comes from Old Yankee Stadium, where an actual running track was built for the use of track and field events.
Shumkent Stadium is a former commercial dock and it is intended that the new stadium will become the heart of a new mixed-use development in the area containing shops, housing, gym and other venues.
In all three phases of the Football City, 90 million euros have been invested, said Fernando Gomes, the president and main person responsible for this achievement.
Ultimately, this gas came into contact with a heating element on an electric popcorn warming machine and ignited, causing the initial blast.
This led to his joining the Hershey Improvement Company about two years later, and to a long association with various Hershey enterprises.
Professional football, colleges, high schools, and even middle schools have bleacher systems set up to accommodate spectators.
He continued his role as manager of the Denver Falcons for one season, until the team folded along with the USHL in 1951.
The state government engaged STUP consultants to design the infrastructure for the city, while the stadium construction was completed by Larsen & Toubro.
In 2017 Geoff Allan published The Scottish Bothy Bible (referred to in the table as SBB), detailing all MBA bothies in Scotland as well as many other non-MBA bothies.
Early life Fairbanks was born on September 29, 1893, in Roxbury, Boston and attended Dorchester High School, where he was a noted athlete.
See also Pakistan Cricket Board List of cricket grounds in Pakistan References External links CricketArchive Ground Profile Cricinfo Ground Profile
Pieri was the owner of the Providence Steamrollers, a Basketball Association of America team that operated from 1946 to 1949.
Historically for the Grand Slams grass courts have been used at Wimbledon since 1877, the US Open from 1881 to 1974, and the Australian Open from 1905 to 1987.
The course was requisitioned by the military during the Second World War and was extensively damaged.
Some Commonwealth competitions may be held outside the host metropolitan area, and in other regions of the host country.
Centre line and corners A centre spot denotes the centre of the field and a circle of radius 5 m (16 ft) is centered at it.
The track passed by a lagoon that featured an animatronic bunyip, which was shut off in 2005 due to budget constraints.
For pétanque, the dimensions of a boulodrome must be multiples of 15.00 m in length and 4.00 m in width (for example: 60.00 m × 20.00 m).
The normal hill was reconstructed about 40 m (130 ft) away from its original site, and the smaller hills further away.
Its aims are the exchange of information and ideas regarding testing sports surfaces such as sports hall floors, synthetic surfaces of athletic tracks and artificial turf surfaces.
His involvement with the league was due to his association with the Hershey Bears, one of the nation's oldest professional hockey teams.
While at Dartmouth, he played for the Dartmouth Big Green football team and was a consensus first-team selection for the 1904 College Football All-America Team.
Because of the tight fit specifications required for manufacture, construction surrounding these sites also has to be of a higher standard, making a Mondotrack one of the most expensive systems to use.
Combination with other sports Many speed skating venues have ice hockey rinks or no ice area at all inside the oval.
The Legon Sports Stadium, officially known as the University of Ghana Sports Stadium, is a stadium at the University of Ghana.
This race was marred by the death of at least 22 spectators as well as driver Emilio Materassi on lap 17, when Materassi lost control of his car on the main straight at over 200 km/h while trying to overtake Giulio Foresti.
Matches After the collapse of the Soviet Union, on 17 September 1992 was held the friendly match between Georgia and Azerbaijan ended 6–3 with 3000 attendances.
Subsequently, both the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) and Women's Tennis Association (WTA) announced that their seasons would be suspended until at least 31 July, with the 2020 French Open being rescheduled to September and Wimbledon being cancelled for the first time since 1945.
The original layout consisted of 22 corners, but this was revised in December 2019 to include an additional corner in the third sector.
This creates a separation between the first baseman and runner, reducing the chance of injury on plays at first base.
Alpine transportation supplement There are several main ways to transport alpine resources and equipment, such as manual handling, cable cars, and helicopters.
Creases are used to adjudicate the dismissals of batsmen, by indicating where the batsmen's grounds are, and to determine whether a delivery is fair.
Currently, the use of lithium-ion battery energy storage systems combined with photovoltaic systems has been proven to be a more environmentally friendly way to solve the energy problems of the lodge.
This element is distinct from the English word gym, short for gymnasium and gymnastics which has Greek and Latin roots.
Sinter-pressed material, on the other hand, uses a much higher molecular weight resin and has a far better abrasion resistance, and therefore the shavings are greatly reduced.
He then describes the Malthusian struggle for existence, given the ability of organisms to reproduce in a world of finite resources.
The Selfish Genius: How Richard Dawkins Rewrote Darwin's Legacy is a 2009 book by Fern Elsdon-Baker about the history of evolutionary theory, published to coincide with the 150th anniversary of the publication of Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species.
According to Kösemen, the: "tone of voice is a high school student fanboying on the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire by Edward Gibbon".
This is a good example of the type of non sequitur that is abundant in this book, in that weighability and pourability are not criteria that come to mind when evaluating theories, nor is autoevolution itself especially weighable or pourable.
The second edition of The Dinosauria revised and reorganized into 30 chapters organized into two sections, the first on "Dinosaur Systematics" and the second on "Dinosaur Distribution and Biology".
He examines the magnificent achievements of civilised society, the sublime explorations that make up science and the humanities, as well as the horrible behaviours of this same society such as war, slavery and rape.
In Prum's "Beauty Happens" hypothesis, mates may have arbitrary preferences for certain traits and their offspring inherit not only the traits but also the preference for them leading to a runaway co-evolution, a concept envisioned by Ronald Fisher a century ago.
a worthy addition to the numerous individual studies of either man", and praised Lander for providing a new means of understanding and appreciating each man.
The theoreticians of Judaism and Christianity have misinterpreted the biological significance of sex, with the insistence that its primary role is procreation, and particularly in its treatment of homosexuals.
describes the book as a useful text for philosophy of religion courses, particularly those on the topic of the problem of evil.
Television documentary The documentary The Real Eve, based on the book and known as Where We Came From in the United Kingdom, was released in 2002.
Dinosaurs (The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages) is a book by Thomas R.
In May 1865 he sent a manuscript to his friend Thomas Huxley outlining his theory which he called pangenesis and asking whether he should publish it.
Prum indicates that while Charles Darwin made this argument in The Descent of Man, published in 1871, the concept was sidelined and forgotten and the notion of natural selection being the sole driver of evolution took over.
Reception Jerry Coyne writes "no one can finish Life without having accrued considerable knowledge of evolutionary history and a sense of the excitement of discovery that can be conveyed only by a professional scientist chipping away at the rock face of his discipline.
An Introduction to African Cave Taphonomy is a 1981 book by Charles Kimberlin Brain regarding the taphonomy of cave deposits in Africa.
[...] But the whole point of agriculture is to manipulate the environment so as to increase the amount of food that it will provide.
Shapiro in a review for the National Center for Science Education commented: David Holbrook, Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge, has written a polemic not so much against evolution as against scientific reductionism (which he sees incarnate in neo-Darwinism).
Darwin: The Life of a Tormented Evolutionist is a biography of Charles Darwin by Adrian Desmond and James Moore.
The Journey of Man: A Genetic Odyssey is a 2002 book by Spencer Wells, an American geneticist and anthropologist, in which he uses techniques and theories of genetics and evolutionary biology to trace the geographical dispersal of early human migrations out of Africa.
The second type, "proactive aggression", is planned, premeditated, and involves deliberate tactical strikes.
Hamilton realized was that the same applies to other close relations—brothers and sisters, nephews and nieces, close cousins.
For instance, the apex predator of the South American pampas, the coelurosaurian "cutlasstooth", has evolved huge, cutting teeth to allow it to prey upon large sauropods.
Ward ultimately concludes that humanity may last for hundreds of millions of years, overcoming every obstacle.
Branham) "Day of the Hunters" (Isaac Asimov) "Herding with the Hadrosaurs" (Michael Bishop) "Ontogeny Recapitulates Phylogeny" (R.
The discovery was made thanks to a graduate student named Alan Hildebrand that notified Alvarez of the evidence of a crater on the Yucatan Peninsula, which had never been published in the scientific literature by the Mexican petroleum geologists that had found it.
The first part, "A Guide to the Interpretation of Bone Accumulations in African Caves," details the processes and effects on how taphonomy occurs.
While the majority of Bone Sharps is true and all of it is based on history, Ottaviani took liberties throughout to better serve the story.
The Creationists: From Scientific Creationism to Intelligent Design is a history of the origins of anti-evolutionism by Ronald Numbers.
Williams writes that the only way adaptations can come into existence or persist is by natural selection.
Sujatha Byravan wrote in The Hindu that the book tells a compelling story of our forefathers based on genetic evidence.
Making the New from the Old describes gene duplication, particularly in the evolution of color vision in primates.
The book is written in question/answer format from Dembski's point of view as one of the conceptual leaders in the movement.
Anthropologists no longer regard "race" as a useful concept in understanding human evolution and variation." The anthropologist C.
It also considers questions of longevity – the previous generation dies because its biological clock shuts down metabolism and repair as to divert investment from the parent individual to that of the offspring.
Though Dixon made illustrations of his future animals to pitch the project, the final book used illustrations by other artists due to a publisher decision.
References ISBN 0-09-928375-1 (UK edition) ISBN 0-8050-6332-3 (US edition) External links Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation, Google Books Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation at IMDb
Frozen Evolution is a 2008 book written by parasitologist Jaroslav Flegr, which aims to explain modern developments in evolutionary biology.
Interactive version Using BBCi (BBC Interactive Television), viewers could during the programme's original airing watch Walking with Cavemen with additional layers of factual evidence, such as facts about fossils and comprehensive summaries of the science behind every episode.
Dennett does not believe there is much hope of discovering an algorithm for doing the right thing, but expresses optimism in our ability to design and redesign our approach to moral problems.
Moreover, it is but fair to leave it to Darwin himself at first to beat off the attacks of his opponents from the splendid structure which he has raised with such a master-hand.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
Hooker and Darwin exchanged roughly 1400 letters over the course of 40 years during their friendship.
In sexual reproduction they were transmitted from parents to their offspring with the mixing of the gemmules producing offspring with 'blended' characteristics of the parents.
In this book, Swamidass, a computational biologist and Christian, uses the findings of biology and genealogy to affirm belief in both evolution and a historical Genesis creation narrative.
The book collects fourteen novelettes and short stories by various science fiction authors, together with a general preface by the editors.
Müller argued that Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection that he had advanced in his book The Origin of Species only five years earlier was correct, citing evidence that he had come across in Brazil.
The high incidence of rape by non-alpha male orangutans and infanticide by male gorillas are also cited as examples of our mutual genetic heritage.
They do not.We are in full agreement that there is no support from the field of population genetics for Wade's conjectures.
Darwinian Fairytales is a 1995 book by the philosopher David Stove, in which the author criticizes application of the theory of evolution as an explanation for sociobiological behavior such as altruism.
The entomologist and geneticist Michael Majerus reviewed this in his 1998 book Melanism: Evolution in Action, and compared it with more recent studies which did not support some of Kettlewell's conclusions.
Martin Stuart-Fox noted that Holbrook's criticism of natural selection was a "cobble together, in a sort of scissors-and-paste criticism...
Reception Neil Tappen, writing in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology, wrote that the book "brings together the findings of a versatile investigator who has been working many years to interpret the hominid-bearing cave deposits in South Africa.
The book received anonymous reviews by biologist Alfred Russel Wallace that were generally supportive.
Description The Descent of Woman states that female apes raised their young without help from the males and that they stayed away from any males unless they were in their estrous cycle.
Fifty years after its publication, the National Academy of Sciences commissioned a book entitled Tempo and Mode in Evolution: Genetics and Paleontology 50 Years After Simpson edited by Walter M.
Acclaim and criticism The book has provoked controversy with some online commentary claiming it is another 'flea', a term used by Dawkins to describe people who have published books about him or his ideas.
The story's time traveller who views this new refuse-covered habitat is gruesomely attacked by ravenous flesh-eating crows.
Some groups of Humans choose to believe that God himself had placed them on there, leading to a resurgence in Religion, however, a leading theory is that an Alien Species had took them onto this planet.
The book rejects reductionist biology and takes influence from Michael Polanyi and vitalist philosophy.
Reception to Gale's book The book has received positive reviews, but the title has been criticized as misleading.
In a talk given to the large Houston Geological Society, Morris received a whimsical introduction by the president that fell well short of praise for his work.
Ward describes garbage dumps 10 million years in the future infested with multiple species of rats, a snake with a sticky frog-like tongue to snap up rodents, and pigs with snouts specialized for rooting through garbage.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
Arthropods are built from simple repeating patterns, but from those patterns there are many possible permutations (as Robert May noted earlier.) 8.
This original Man After Man would have been set in the same world as After Man and would have focused on man-made catastrophes destroying the ecosystem established in the previous book.
Biblical passages may be viewed metaphorically, taking them out of conflict with scientific knowledge.
Lima-de-Faria holds that there are no random events in evolution, there is no natural selection and all living and non-living matter evolve from the same laws.
The book is one of a series of long essays by respected contemporary Darwinian thinkers, which were published under the collective title Darwinism Today.
Others however argue that the broad scope of the edits in the fifth edition make up for any generalizations pertaining to specific details related to geological paleontology.
Away on a cave expedition, Athalaric asks Honorius to become a priest on his father's request, to lead Rome away from decay.
The invention of a super-strong material named Bulerite is partially responsible for this, which enables Earth to, at last, initiate a burgeoning space industry.
When I found out that Knight had met Cope just before Cope died, I became convinced that he was the character I needed.
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
Examples include Easter Island and the ruins of Petra, both of which were the result of deforestation resulting in desertification, according to Diamond.
In response the British Centre for Science Education published an open letter to UK school librarians together with a leaflet called "Explore Evolution Exposed" that was based on the NCSE analysis and adapted for the UK.
He theorizes about how the timing of orgasm can affect fertility, due to changes in the cervical mucus said to accompany orgasm, which then affect its ability to "filter out" sperm and prevent them from traveling into the cervix.
The bee falls into the liquid; as it escapes from the orchid, it deposits its pollen sacs on the bee’s back.
Vail, a river guide in the park, had recently converted to Christianity and adopted "'a different view' of the Canyon, which, according to a biblical time scale, cannot possibly be more than about a few thousand years old.
Notably, in Chapter XXVII Darwin introduced his "provisional hypothesis" of pangenesis that he had first outlined to Huxley in 1865.
Forced by a grassland fire to take refuge in a jungle, she survives an attack by pithecines and eventually joins another hominid tribe, who use axes much to her amazement.
Other topics mentioned include the evolution of the brain (with emphasis on the function of the neocortex in humans), the evolutionary purpose of sleep and dreams, demonstration of sign language abilities by chimps and the purpose of mankind's innate fears and myths.
The first unabridged edition of the book came out in 1995, and the third, latest unabridged edition came out in 2000; abridged versions were also distributed.
This was a book Wallace wrote as a defensive response to the scientific critics of natural selection.
Gould's claim is that "the Cambrian phylum count was larger, maybe much larger, than the contemporary count.
Distribution In 2007 tens of thousands of copies of the book were given to schools, prominent researchers and research institutes throughout the United States and Europe, including to a large number of French, Belgian, Spanish and Swiss schools.
On the Movements and Habits of Climbing Plants is a book by Charles Darwin first printed in book form in 1875 by John Murray.
See also The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature Mutual Aid: A Factor of Evolution References External links A Darwinian Left for Today and Beyond Peter Singer Excerpted from A Darwinian Left, pp.
believe that God has written on the rocks one enormous and superfluous lie for all mankind." (reproduced from Hardin, 1982).
Summary Chapter One, "What is Evolution?", gives a brief overview of Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection as theory and fact.
Some other taxonomic choices, such as the assignment of some genera to specific groups and the use of original clades (such as "minmids" and "paxceratopsians") also received some criticism.
David McKinnon, writing for the Journal of Clinical Investigation, notes that the book is stylistically and conceptually similar to the works of Stephen Jay Gould, but based strongly on findings in molecular biology that were not yet available for Gould.
Teihard's description of consciousness and of the Omega Point has been characterised as prophetic of the information age and the concept of the technological singularity.
It is a follow-up to his earlier book The Naked Ape; both books examine how the biological nature of the human species has shaped the character of the cultures of the contemporary world.
As in Dixon's previous work, After Man, ecology and evolutionary theory are applied to create believable creatures, all of which have their own binomial names and text describing their behaviour and interactions with other contemporary animals.
Animals mentioned: Tyrannosaurus Edmontosaurus Triceratops Ankylosaurus Ornithomimidae Dromaeosauridae Troodontidae == References ==
Gould's hope was to show that the relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny is fundamental to evolution, and at its heart is a simple premise—that variations in the timing and rate of development provide the raw material upon which natural selection can operate." M.
Paulin stated that "Darwin's conception of the cruelty of nature to her sentient offspring is wholly mistaken." He argued that the struggle for existence emphasized by Darwin was immoral.
Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History is a 1989 book on the evolution of Cambrian fauna by Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould.
Modern influence Various alternative evolutionary mechanisms favoured during "the eclipse of Darwinism" became untenable as more was learned about inheritance and mutation.
He cites data suggesting that in Britain at least 4% of children (but perhaps as many as 6–12%) are conceived via sperm competition, and claims that this lower figure is consistent with the earlier finding that 10% of children have a biological father who is other than their supposed father.
Our Flesh and Blood: Arms Races, the Human Race, and Natural Selection looks at evolutionary arms races, starting with the rough-skinned newt and garter snake.
It should rather be said that plants acquire and display this power only when it is of some advantage to them; this being of comparatively rare occurrence, as they are affixed to the ground, and food is brought to them by the air and rain." (p.
Since the genetic code is degenerate, some mutations result in codons that code for the same amino acid.
In tall and dense forests, twining plants would probably succeed better with minor expenditure of organic matter.
Modern biologists respect Poulton's advocacy of natural selection and sexual selection, despite the lack at the time of an adequate theory of heredity, and his recognition of frequency-dependent selection.
It is just a thoughtful, readable, and very stimulating book." Reviews In his review of The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change, Donald J.
Gould's thesis was that if the history of life were replayed over again, human-level intelligence would prove unlikely to ever arise again.
Carroll, Endless Forms Most Beautiful Richard Dawkins, The Blind Watchmaker Jonathan Weiner, The Beak of the Finch == References ==
Nagel's position is that principles of an entirely different kind may account for the emergence of life, and conscious life.
Bold lines, plentiful white space, and careful use of just two colors provide clarity and focus throughout the progression.
Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth is a book about natural history by British paleontologist Richard A.
It is a general interest book on evolution, following on his two previous works Endless Forms Most Beautiful and From DNA to Diversity (an introductory text for biology graduate students).
Creationists mentioned in the book include George Frederick Wright, Louis Agassiz, John William Dawson, George D.
Heilmann examines and rejects Beebe's own Proavis (named "Tetrapteryx" by Beebe) based on his analysis of Beebe's documentation of pelvic wings in bird embryos, which Heilmann found little evidence for.
Addressing topics such as animal psychology, the history of ethics, and human–animal relationships, the book argues that animals' mental and emotional capacities warrant ethical and legal recognition.
Morgan also wrote that the female orgasm went from a "natural sexual response" to becoming "very difficult".
The Sandwalk Adventures is a graphic novel created by Assistant Professor of Biology at Juniata College, Jay Hosler.
The book was described as having significant, "broad" coverage, but not as much "depth", making it a potential resource for students and researchers looking to find more-detailed references.
Ridley argues that few, if any, aspects of human nature can be understood apart from sex, since human nature is a product of evolution, driven by sexual reproduction in the case of sexual selection in human evolution.
The book is a journey through 65 million years of palaeontological records, from the extinction of the dinosaurs to just before present.
In the arena of efficacy he explores the forces beside natural selection that have been considered in evolutionary theory.
Paul when creating his creatures and also used patterns seen in the actual evolutionary history of the dinosaurs and pushing them to an extreme, such as with the creation of the "gourmand", an armless and massive scavenger descended from the tyrannosaurids.
It includes a timeline and author's note at the end for older children or parents who want material for further discussion.
Dawkins says the gene is the fundamental unit of selection, and then points out that selection does not act directly upon the gene, but upon "vehicles" or '"extended phenotypes".
Flowering Plants: Evolution Above the Species Level is a book written by evolutionary biologist and botanist G.
Ridley points out the relationship between cholesterol, steroidal hormones such as progesterone, cortisol, aldosterone, testosterone and oestradiol.
Newman Phenotypic Plasticity and Evolution by Genetic Assimilation, Vidyanand Nanjundiah Genetic and Epigenetic Factors in the Origin of the Tetrapod Limb, Günter P.
Townsend described it as a "scholarly book, well organized and well written, interesting to the intelligent reader whatever his special field".
It was highly important in asserting his dominance of comparative anatomy, and in the long run more influential in establishing evolution amongst biologists than was the debate with Samuel Wilberforce.
The book is widely used, and has received excellent reviews: "This book is a ′must′ for a biology or geology student and researcher concerned by palaeontology.
It is a geological blink." And, "it is no wonder the eye has evolved at least forty times independently around the animal kingdom." God's utility function This chapter is Dawkins's take on the meaning of life or the purpose of life.
Reception and legacy In his review for the Humboldt Journal of Social Relations, Robert Wisniewski commended the book for its revolutionary ecological perspective on global issues.
It was intended to promote the eugenics movement and bring its aims to a broader non-academic audience.
An article by Fern Elsdon-Baker in New Scientist of 19 July 2009 entitled the "Dawkins Dogma" contains parts of the arguments put forward within the book.
Mammoths, Sabertooths, and Hominids: 65 Million Years of Mammalian Evolution in Europe is a book written by Jordi Agustí and illustrated by Mauricio Antón.
The volume made The New York Times Best Seller list, was the 1991 winner of the Royal Society's Rhone-Poulenc Prize and the American Historical Association's Forkosch Award, and was a 1991 finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.
Cuvier concluded there must have been sudden and violent catastrophes that caused mass extinctions of viable species.
Gail Patricelli, Eileen Hebets, and Tamra Mendelson, while describing the book as containing "engaging descriptions of the natural world", criticize Prum's reasoning, description of modern sexual selection research, and conclusions.
He begins by stating that humans are indeed animals, sharing a common ancestry with all living creatures.
Lincoln and Darwin is structured as a series of alternating narratives concerning each man's interactions with the events and discoveries of the mid-19th century.
Kesavan Veluthat of The Hindu stated that the book shows a firm basis on which the study of Indian history can begin.
The earliest groups of humans are believed to find their present-day descendants among the San people, a group that is now found in western southern Africa.
Relation to other works The Scopes Trial was the subject of a comprehensive study previously written by L.
Despite his heavy teaching load and administrative duties at Virginia Tech, where he had just become head of a large civil-engineering program, Morris made steady progress on his section of the book, eventually contributing more than twice as much material as Whitcomb.
Dennett noted discomfort with Darwinism among not only lay people but also even academics and decided it was time to write a book dealing with the subject.
However, the pseudo-scientific method he uses in his work The Atlas of Creation cannot in any way be considered scientific.
He argues in the book that selection is not the mechanism of evolution because it cannot be weighed on a balance, poured into a vial, or measured in specific units.
He also looks at the relationship between science and race in the 19th century United States and the emergence and influence of scientific racism.
Trivers' starting point is to illustrate that self-deception is something of an evolutionary puzzle.
Here the cuckoo does not interact directly with the host (which could be meadow pipits, dunnocks or reed warblers).
(1982) Naked Emperors, Essays of a Taboo-Stalker, William Kaufmann Inc., Los Altos, CA, USA ISBN 0-86576-032-2 Roizen, Ron (1982).
Prum's chapter on duck sex shows how female ducks evolved having convoluted vaginas to protect themselves against effects of forced copulation.
First published in 1992 as The Creationists: The Evolution of Scientific Creationism, a revised and expanded edition was published under the current title in 2006.
By only presenting facts without any theory or proof, Harun Yahya abuses the credulity of individuals who listen to him or read his works.
There is an internet version of the test called the Moral Sense Test which is aimed at a worldwide public.
The book also developed concepts of time (offered in Bergson's earlier work) which significantly influenced modernist writers and thinkers such as Marcel Proust and Thomas Mann.
Most evolution—"nine-tenths"—occurs by the steady phyletic transformation of whole lineages (anagenesis).
They encounter descendants of beetles, rats, lizards and toads, and Cactus is hunted by a huge, transparent salamander.
(Adnan Oktar has also let readers download much of his work from his dozens of websites for free.) According to biologist Kenneth R.
Thus, history's final state will take place such that all of the creatures of the universe exist together with Jesus Christ as the "Logos" or sacred "Word".
Although Greenworld has so far only been published in Japan, Dixon has expressed interest in getting an English-language version published.
It was not until one century later that feminists were working from inside the natural sciences, and could address Darwin's androcentricity.
"In the general proportions of the body and limbs there is a remarkable difference between the Gorilla and man (p87)...
For example, selection between individuals should be preferred to group selection as an explanation if both seem plausible.
To him that predicament is the natural outcome of evolutionary processes and the powers given to humans through those processes.
But the tenth chapter, "Retardation and Neoteny in Human Evolution", would "mislead a great many people" who would be unable to make an informed judgement about its conclusions.
He writes that mind is a basic aspect of nature and that any philosophy of nature that cannot account for it is fundamentally misguided.
She criticized Darwin for basing his theory of evolution on "time-honored assumption that the male is the normal type of his species".
as a needed summary of our knowledge about the fossils found in the Cretaceous rocks of western Kansas and elsewhere in the Great Plains, Everhart's book is a success." Brian R.
He had a large collection of additional notes and by the middle of June had written drafts of an introduction and two chapters on the domestication of pigeons that would eventually form part of The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication.
Reception Horace Freeland Judson praised the book for its extremely extensive coverage which he likened to an encyclopaedia.
Dobzhansky considered Genetics of the Evolutionary Process (1970) a fourth edition, but one so much changed that it needed a new title.
It enclosed a twenty pages manuscript describing an evolutionary mechanism that was similar to Darwin's own theory.
It was broadcast on Arte as part of the television programme The Human Adventure, and dubbed into German under the title Charles Darwin und die Evolution.
Chapter 18, Cures Recombinant DNA enabled genetic manipulation with restriction enzymes and a ligase.
Moore challenges the traditional view that places human consciousness and mental abilities on a unique pedestal, arguing that many cognitive and emotional capacities, such as problem-solving, memory, emotions, and social behaviors, are also present in varying degrees across the animal kingdom.
For instance he considers mutations to be errors only, not a process that has persisted to provide variation and evolutionary potential.
It was first published in paperback by Ace Books in June 1990, and as an ebook by Baen Books in November 2014.
Amongst the theories advanced in the book, Lane endorses the hydrogen hypothesis for the formation of the eukaryotic cell, whereby mitochondria are the original defining characteristic of the structure.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
It was described in a 1998 review by palaeontologist Mark Purnell as being uniquely inclusive in its coverage of the subject, going into detail about the history of the science as well as methodology and other aspects.
https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=f6h&AN=23485800&lang=ru&site=eds-live&scope=site Moral Minds: How Nature Designed Our Universal Sense of Right and Wrong.
Lima-de-Faria emphasizes that the laws of physics and chemistry generate the basic forms found in living organisms, and that physicochemical forces and organisms interact at many levels.
Hall, Evolution & Development Book review – by Dan Graur, The Quarterly Review of Biology Notes External links Frozen Evolution - available online
The Turkish original was translated into English, German, Chinese, French, Dutch, Italian, Urdu, Hindi and Russian.
It is only by the accumulation of new and valuable material that the controversy will gradually be brought into a state fit for final decision, and this appears to be for the present of more importance than a repeated analysis of what is already before us.
In Neanderthals, Bandits and Farmers, Tudge offers an explanation for the beginning of the population explosion and that farming was not suddenly invented 10,000 years ago, but had existed as what he called proto-farming or hobby farming for at least 30,000 years earlier.
In a morphodynamic system, the tendency towards symmetry produces not global equilibrium, but a complex geometric form like a hexagonal Benard cell or the resonant frequency of a flute.
Several future human species evolve through natural means and through genetic engineering, conducted by both humans themselves and by a mysterious and superior alien race called the Qu.
Content The work is an examination of naturalist Charles Darwin and the theory of evolution he proposed and marshaled evidence for in The Origin of Species.
Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex is a 2002 popular science book by the British evolutionary biologist Olivia Judson written in the role of her alter ego, agony aunt Dr Tatiana.
"The interpretation of something as information indirectly reinforces the capacity to do this again." References Incomplete Nature: How Mind Emerged from Matter.
It focuses largely on how the philosophical assumptions of biologists influenced and limited their understanding.
The aim of the book is to "clarify certain issues in the study of adaptation and the underlying evolutionary processes." Though more technical than a popular science book, its target audience is not specialists but biologists in general and the more advanced students of the topic.
Summary The Naked Ape, which was serialised in the Daily Mirror newspaper and has been translated into 23 languages, depicts human behaviour as largely evolved to meet the challenges of prehistoric life as a hunter (see Nature versus nurture).
Examples are the decorative feathers of the male great argus, the dances of the male red-capped manakin, and the flight patterns of the male golden-winged manakin.
In a letter to Joseph Alston, then superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park, the presidents of seven geoscience societies voiced their concerns: "The Grand Canyon provides a remarkable and unique opportunity to educate the public about earth science.
Stepping from simple to higher organized organisms, Lorenz shows how they gain and benefit from information.
Kelleher comments that the authors’ argument makes it difficult to imagine the language in which their book would have been written, were it not for the ability to digest milk.
President of the Linnean Society (1912–1916) Royal Society's Darwin Medal in 1914 Linnean Society's Linnean Medal in 1922.
Boquila trifoliata, a South American member of the family Lardizabalaceae, is a climbing vine with a highly variable appearance (phenotype).
Military camouflage relies predominantly on disruptive patterns, though methods such as outline disruption are also used, and others have been prototyped.
Ships Until the 20th century, naval weapons had a short range, so camouflage was unimportant for ships, and for the men on board them.
Although lions are cathemeral, and may be active at any time of day or night, they prefer to hunt at night because many of their prey species (zebra, antelope, impala, wildebeest, etc.) have poor night vision.
Thus, it is not certain that the form is indeed extinct, if one can speak of "extinction" in any but a population genetical sense anyway.
The pied raven had large areas of white feathering, most frequently on the head, the wings and the belly, and its beak was light brown.
They also demonstrated that crickets, like moths, fly away from bats once they've heard their echolocating calls, an example of negative phonotaxis.
Buchanan White, in an 1877 letter to Nature made the association between the moth's high-pitched sounds and the high-pitched bat calls and wondered whether the moths would be able to hear it.
Several other insects have sensitive ultrasonic hearing that probably is used in bat evasion, but direct evidence is not yet available.
Cepaea is a genus of large air-breathing land snails, terrestrial pulmonate gastropod molluscs in the family Helicidae.
First World War In the First World War, the French army formed a camouflage corps, led by Lucien-Victor Guirand de Scévola, employing artists known as camoufleurs to create schemes such as tree observation posts and covers for guns.
Its similarity to the "broadband, harsh sounds" used as warning calls by birds and mammals may enhance its effectiveness.
Infants might also lack the physical ability to produce alarm calls or lack the necessary experience to classify unfamiliar objects as dangerous and worthy of an alarm signal.
In a manner that is similar to the development of Drosophila fruit flies, Hh is expressed in all cells in the posterior compartment of the developing butterfly wing during the mid fifth instar of butterfly wing development.
In some cases, the variation in larval type is a 'plastic' trait in that it is environmentally mediated.
A gene is said to be polymorphic if more than one allele occupies that gene's locus within a population.
Sir Edward Bagnall Poulton, FRS HFRSE FLS (27 January 1856 – 20 November 1943) was a British evolutionary biologist, a lifelong advocate of natural selection through a period in which many scientists such as Reginald Punnett doubted its importance.
The presence of genes for synthesizing carotenoids in these arthropods has been attributed to independent horizontal gene transfer (HGT) events from fungi.
"By skilful jugglings we are shown how anything and everything may be rendered inconspicuous," citing the skunk among other boldly black and white animals with both the skunk coloration and the "well-known skunk smell".
Such animals, like the tawny dragon lizard, may resemble rocks, sand, twigs, leaves, and even bird droppings (mimesis).
Statistical research has shown that an individual of a given phenotype will generally be, compared to an individual of a differing phenotype, more resistant to certain diseases while less resistant to others.
A study by Deborah K Letourneau in 1983 found that the ants were so sated by the plant's pearl bodies that more than half the insect eggs they encountered while patrolling were dropped to the ground.
Implicitly, also, Cott follows Thayer in his Figure 3 "Larva of Eyed Hawk-moth" in both "natural (e.g.
On a day-to-day basis, species can see significant changes in their internal temperatures, their general movement, feeding and body mass.
Among vertebrates, snakes such as the rubber boa and the coral snake coil up and hide their head, instead displaying their tail as a false head.
Many species of cat, including Geoffroy's cats, jungle cats, pampas cats, and servals, have white markings, whether spots or bars, on the backs of their ears; it is possible that these signal "follow me" to the young of the species.
Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats.
As the predominant chlorophylls degrade, the hidden pigments of yellow xanthophylls and orange beta-carotene are revealed.
Each of these areas has one to four mimicry rings, with patterns different from those in other areas.
Snipers of many armies have since then adopted the ghillie suit for the effective concealment that it affords.
However, when the water level is low and desiccation is imminent, the tadpoles develop a morphology (wide mouth, strong jaw) that permits them to cannibalize.
Gould as distinct species, supposed to have been created here; yet the close affinity of most of these birds to American species in every character, in their habits, gestures, and tones of voice, was manifest.
In the species Hemisphaerota cyanea, the larva constructs a shield which may be more descriptively called a "fecal thatch", because it is woven from narrow, coiled strands of frass.
He predicted that the insects (Brood X) "may be expected again in they year 1800 which is Seventeen Since their third appearance to me".
The second type of thorn mimicry, a more classic case of Batesian mimicry, involves the pointed, colorful organs like buds, leaves and fruit of mimetic plant species that mimic warning-coloured aposematic colorful thorns not found anywhere else in the organism.
Among the observations in Bates's 1862 paper is the statement: I was never able to distinguish the Leptalides from the species they imitated, although they belong to a family totally different in structure and metamorphosis from the Heliconidae, without examining them closely after capture.
The genetics of this situation cannot be clarified in the absence of a detailed breeding program, but two loci with linkage disequilibrium is a possibility.
Many external mechanical defenses and quantitative defenses are constitutive, as they require large amounts of resources to produce and are costly to mobilize.
On the contrary, when a given allele is low in frequency (p → {\displaystyle \to } 0) it will increase in frequency in the future, avoiding its extinction and maintaining polymorphism at the locus.
These results were consistent with those found in studies on chickens, lizards, and blue crabs at the time, and provided support that rabbits use tonic immobility as an antipredator response.
This cost can be seen when plants that use chemical defenses are compared to those plants that do not, in situations when herbivores are excluded.
For instance, the orchid Epipactis helleborine is physiologically and morphologically adapted to attract social wasps as their primary pollinators.
Batesian mimicry is frequency dependent: it is most effective when the ratio of mimic to model is low; otherwise, predators will encounter the mimic too often.
Vein cutting is when a herbivore creates small openings along the length of the leaf vein, while trenching refers to the creation of a cut across the width the leaf allowing the individual to safely consume the separated portion.
In ecology, crypsis is the ability of an animal or a plant to avoid observation or detection by other animals.
See also Animal suicide Anti-predator adaptation Apoptosis Autohaemorrhaging Exploding animal Self-destruct == References ==
Tarantulas from the genera Avicularia, Pachistopelma and Iridopelma possess Type II hairs (Hoover, 1997).
The Española cactus finch (Geospiza conirostris) lives on Isla Genovesa (formerly Tower Island) which is formed from a shield volcano, and is home to a variety of birds.
Bamboo fossils are uncommon because their hollow stems and fibrous tissues decay rapidly, leaving little trace in the geological record.
Plants, on the other hand, protect their resources for use in growth and reproduction, by limiting the ability of herbivores to eat them.
Mobbing can also be used to obtain food, by driving larger birds and mammals away from a food source, or by harassing a bird with food.
A third hypothesis is that automimics are more likely to die or to be injured by a predator's attack.
coli and many other bacteria, but also in several eukaryotic model organisms such as baker's yeast and fission yeast.
Costs and decision to display Risks While animals performing distraction displays are rarely documented as being killed, risks to the displaying animal do exist.
Vertebrates Tonic immobility has been observed in a large number of vertebrate taxa, including sharks, fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Research has also shown that they do not develop typical signs of aging and do not accumulate age-related diseases like cancer.
Hamilton's frog, found on Stephens and Maud islands, stays hidden for most of the day when temperatures are warmer and is mainly active at night.
It may be that since plants often grow in clusters, foraging herbivores are hard to deceive once they have started to feed in an area.
Awards and distinctions Cuthill won the Scientific Medal of the Zoological Society of London in 1998, the Nature and NESTA award for mentoring in science in 2005.
Seven species of frogs in the genus Pleurodema have lumbar glands (making the animals distasteful, so in their case the display is likely aposematic); these glands are usually boldly contrasted in black as a further warning.
Autothysis (from the Greek roots autos- αὐτός "self" and thysia θυσία "sacrifice") or suicidal altruism is the process where an animal destroys itself via an internal rupturing or explosion of an organ which ruptures the skin.
Its presence in Northeast India indicates that the region served as a refuge where bamboo continued to survive under favorable conditions.
Poulton's son, Ronald Poulton-Palmer played international rugby for England and was killed in May 1915 in World War I.
The philosopher and jazz musician David Rothenberg wrote of Cott's art: Back to Hugh Cott's marvelous engraving of a potoo hidden in a black and white Costa Rican forest, frozen vertically like the tree trunk on which it hides.
When necessary, in order to scare away a potential predator, it can display markings which resemble eyes.
Self-decoration is seen in some insects such as caddis fly larvae, the nymphs of the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
Scorpions perform non-bluffing threat displays, as they have powerful defences, but various predators still eat them.
When the wasp eggs hatch, the larvae feed on the stinkbug eggs from within, killing the stinkbug eggs, after which the wasps hatch.
Hemiptera Cercopidae – including spittlebugs Prosapia bicincta and Prosapia ignipectus Lepidoptera Tiger moth adults, such as Arctia caja, which mixes haemolymph with glandular products (neurotoxic choline esters).
nemoralis in Scotland and Scandinavia and it is the only one of the two species in Iceland and the only one native to North America.
He then went on an expedition to the lower Amazon (1925–1926), and on research trips to the Zambesi river area in Africa (1927), including Mozambique, Zambia and East Africa, and Lanzarote (1930).
Now, that these colours are onely fantastical ones, that is, such as arise immediately from the refractions of the light, I found by this, that water wetting these colour'd parts, destroy'd their colours, which seem'd to proceed from the alteration of the reflection and refraction.
The urticating setae, or spines, can cause irritation when they break off and lodge in the skin of larger animals or humans.
Agri-environment schemes spread across the neighbouring area of Romney Marsh have been set up to provide over 800 hectares of additional flower-rich habitat for the bees.
Light pollution Light pollution is a major issue for nocturnal species, and the impact continues to increase as electricity reaches parts of the world that previously had no access.
Some, such as Emma Lundgren and Stüssy, have created their own designs or integrated camouflage patterns with other symbols.
As seals are distributed over such a large area, these display behaviours can slightly change geographically as males try to appeal to the largest number of females possible over a large geographical range.
All the same, the conspicuousness of motion raises the question of whether and how motion itself could be camouflaged.
Sheppard found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
They are known for their ability to spray a liquid with a strong, unpleasant scent from their anal glands.
Multi-shelled chitons also volvate, although evidence suggests that they do not use this behavior as an anti-predatory defense but rather as a form of locomotion.
Studies of rear-wing damage support the hypothesis that this strategy is effective in deflecting attacks from the insect's head.
History In 1889, William Bateson observed in detail the way that decorator crabs fix materials on their backs.
The other side of the argument is that the alarm calls create mental representation of predators in the listeners minds.
By appearing non-living, they are less likely to be eaten by herbivores, and in dusty dry conditions among stones are extremely difficult to detect.
The colour is mainly determined by alleles at a single locus with brown dominant to pink, which is dominant to yellow.
Orthoptera Bushhoppers, such as Dictyophorus spumans, Phymateus viridipes and Phymateus leprosus – their haemolymph contains cardiac glycosides, sequestered from milkweed on which they feed.
He studied, described and presented examples of such diverse camouflage effects as obliterative shading, disruption, differential blending, high contrast, coincident disruption, concealment of the eye, contour obliteration, shadow elimination, and mimicry.
Thus, he began to give more attention to the underwater lighting and scenery where he frames his objects, to create better image compositions, "I’ve really worked on making my photographs aesthetically pleasing", he has mentioned.
References External links b/w photo of the Braunschweig specimen Den Hvide Ravn- extensive information in Danish
Electrical mimicry The electric eel, Electrophorus, is capable of delivering a powerful electric shock that can stun or kill its prey.
Kerr was accompanied by John Samuel Budgett, who studied the frogs of the area and discovered a new genus.
Polymorphisms are also classified based on whether the change is in the sequence of the resulting protein or in the regulation of the expression of the gene, which can occur at sites that are typically upstream and adjacent to the gene, but not always.
hortensis is more active at lower temperatures, aestivates higher on the vegetation and is more diurnal, although this appears to be independent of whether the other species is present or not.
These and other species of rodent are also known to exhibit a so-called "false caudal autotomy," whereby the skin on the tail slides off with minimal force, leaving only the bare vertebral structure.
Among animals, self-decoration is found in decorator crabs, some insects such as caddis flies and the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
In cases where this relationship demonstrates "specificity" (the evolution of each trait is due to the other), and "reciprocity" (both traits must evolve), the species are thought to have coevolved.
Mimesis Mimesis is practised by animals such as the leafy sea dragon, Phycodurus eques, and the leaf scorpionfish, Taenianotus triacanthus, which resemble parts of plants, and gently rock their bodies as if swayed by a current.
Some species preferentially select stinging animals such as sea anemones or noxious plants, benefiting from aposematism as well as or instead of crypsis.
For instance, tree-dwelling parakeets are mainly green; woodcocks of the forest floor are brown and speckled; reedbed bitterns are streaked brown and buff; in each case the animal's coloration matches the hues of its habitat.
Martin Stevens is a British sensory and evolutionary ecologist, an underwater photographer and a natural history and popular science writer.
Gaping is a common form of behavior in the animal kingdom, in which an animal opens its mouth widely and displays the interior of its mouth, for any of various purposes.
History The pied raven received binomial names such as Corvus leucophaeus (by Vieillot, 1817) and Corvus leucomelas (by Wagler, 1827).
Larvae of species that eat aphids decorate themselves with the waxy material produced by the aphids; larvae decorated like this are ignored by ants which farm the aphids, whereas the ants eject undecorated larvae, making this a wolf in sheep's clothing strategy of aggressive mimicry.
These colours provide strong contrast with green foliage, resist changes in shadow and lighting, are highly chromatic, and provide distance dependent camouflage.
In experiments with Bombus terrestris, workers were trained to solve a novel task (string-pulling) to obtain a reward, and naïve individuals that observed trained demonstrators were significantly more successful than those that did not.
Nakagawa & Cuthill (2007) was selected by Biological Reviews as one of their highlight papers of the last 200 years == References ==
Foraging behaviour Bumblebees generally visit flowers that exhibit the bee pollination syndrome and these patches of flowers may be up to 1–2 km from their colony.
This is sufficient to maintain the system, although in this case the heterozygote has slightly lower viability.
They may make use of conspicuous mating displays, including vocal signals, which may then develop through sexual selection.
Once she has infiltrated a host colony, the Psithyrus female kills or subdues the queen of that colony, and uses pheromones and physical attacks to force the workers of that colony to feed her and her young.
The aphid forms a large ball-shaped plant-made nest, called the gall, in which hundreds of aphids are living as a colony.
The coloration of these insects evolved between 1860 and 1940 to match the changing colour of the tree trunks on which they rest, from pale and mottled to almost black in polluted areas.
Therefore, alarm calling may require advanced levels of development, perception, categorization, and social cognition.
Size dimorphism shows a correlation with sexual cannibalism, which is prominent in spiders (it is also found in insects such as praying mantises).
More recent studies generally find more recent (Late Carboniferous to Permian) age for the basalmost divergence among lissamphibians.
Some animals are named for their tendency to use gaping as a threat display, or for the features that become apparent when making such a display.
Medical Entomology: a Survey of Insects and Allied Forms Which Affect the Health of Man and Animals.
Male body size is not under selection due to cannibalism in all spider species such as Nephila pilipes, but is more prominently selected for in less dimorphic species of spiders, which often selects for larger male size.
Polyphenism in Lepidoptera is commonly seen in the form of seasonal morphs, especially in the butterfly families of Nymphalidae and Pieridae.
One habitat is rocky sea-side cliffs, where the plants are bushy with broad leaves and expanded inflorescences; the other is among sand dunes where the plants grow prostrate with narrow leaves and compact inflorescences.
The background colour of the shell ranges from dark brown, through pink to yellow or even approaching white.
Termites will use autothysis to defend their colony, as the ruptured gland produces a sticky harmful secretion that leads to a tar baby effect in defense.
Genotype contributes to phenotype, the observable traits and characteristics in an individual or organism.
Ford described peppered moth evolution as "one of the most striking, though not the most profound, evolutionary changes ever actually witnessed in nature".
Defensive Batesian In Batesian mimicry, named after the English naturalist Henry Walter Bates, a harmless species has evolved to imitate the warning signals of a harmful species directed at a predator.
By the use of cutting edge camera equipment, the researchers successfully showed how the orange is perceived by horses as shades of green.
In fact, two new carotenoids that were isolated from a sponge called Phakellia stelliderma showed mild cytotoxicity against mouse leukemia cells.
To reduce light production, the squid can change the shape of its iris; it can also adjust the strength of yellow filters on its underside, which presumably change the balance of wavelengths emitted.
Applications An example of the usage of SSLPs (microsatellites) is seen in a study by Rosenberg et al., where SSLPs were used to cluster different continental populations of human beings.
Tenebrionidae (darkling beetles) - larvae of Asbolus verrucosus have been observed to autohaemorrhage while they feign death.
In nesting bumblebees, it is modified to form a pollen basket, a bare shiny area surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen, whereas in cuckoo bumblebees, the hind leg is hairy all around, and they never carry pollen.
The thrushes hunt by sight, and selectively capture those forms which stand out against the background, so predation may be one factor influencing the different proportion of phenotypes (morphs) found in woodland than in open habitats.
Several mimicry mechanisms in plants were described in the 20th century, starting with Pouyannian (1916), Vavilovian (1951), and Gilbertian (1975).
Autotomy serves either to improve the chances of escape or to reduce further damage occurring to the remainder of the animal such as the spread of a chemical toxin after being stung.
These ants mostly use autothysis against other arthropods, like invading ant colonies or against termite colonies, and are rather ineffective towards larger vertebrate predators such as lizards or birds.
In 1775, Thomas Jefferson recorded in his "Garden Book" Brood II's 17-year periodicity, writing that an acquaintance remembered "great locust years" in 1724 and 1741, that he and others recalled another such year in 1758 and that the insects had again emerged from the ground at Monticello in 1775.
Second, both dishonest and honest individuals must escalate aggression according to the quality they have signalled, regardless of their actual quality.
The blood of these animals usually contains toxic compounds, making the behaviour an effective chemical defense mechanism.
These bristles can embed themselves in the other animal's skin or eyes, causing physical irritation, usually to great discomfort.
Clarke for his pioneering work on frequency-dependent selection "by predators acting on non-mimetic polymorphic prey (i.e.
Sexual dimorphism is present in all families of the Papilionoidea and more prominent in the Lycaenidae, Pieridae, and certain taxa of the Nymphalidae.
In other cases, the larval type is genetically determined - a good example is the polychaete Streblospio benedicti, where some mothers release small planktotrophic eggs and other mothers release large lecithotrophic eggs.
Unkenreflex – interchangeably referred to as unken reflex (Unke is the German word for fire-bellied toads) – is a defensive posture adopted by several branches of the amphibian class, including salamanders, toads, and certain species of frogs.
As such it can be any mechanism that may evolve by natural selection; no conscious intention is involved.
For example, the larva of the tortoise beetle Plagiometriona clavata obtains chemical compounds from its diet of bittersweet (Solanum dulcamara), excretes them, and incorporates them into its shield, where they repel the predatory ant Formica subsericea.
Termites Groups of termites whose soldiers have been found to use autothysis to defend their colonies include Serritermes serrifer, Dentispicotermes, Genuotermes, and Orthognathotermes.
The "piebald" allele(s) was or were presumably recessive or (if more than one) only caused the novel coloration if they were all present.
Plot summary Technical Fairy, First Class gives the troops "A Lecture On Camouflage" with the aid of Private Snafu.
In the Teleogryllus cricket, two ascending interneurons carry information to the brain - one carries information about cricket song (around 5 kHz) while the other gets excited at ultrasound and other high frequencies (15–100 kHz).
The important role of secondary plant substances in plant defense was described in the late 1950s by Vincent Dethier and G.S.
With this subfamily's notorious obscurity, and the relative variation between species and subspecies, the relationships between members is still quite indeterminate.
A larger cornea and pupil correlated well with whether these two classes of organisms were nocturnal or not.
A study by Ward-Fear, Brown & Shine (2010) found that meat ants could severely injure toad metamorphs within 5 seconds, and that more than 80% of ant attacks were fatal.
Similarly, sea urchins use their tube feet to pick up debris from the bottom and attach it to their upper surfaces.
Nocturnality is a behavior in some non-human animals characterized by being active during the night and sleeping during the day.
Evolution Aposematism, camouflage, and mimicry Müllerian mimicry relies on aposematism, or warning signals.
This pattern implies that the rattling "could serve as a general attention-getting device", which "is designed as a deimatic or startle display".
Skunks carry just enough for five or six successive sprays – about 15 cm3 – and require up to ten days to produce another supply.
The majority of the subfamily extending as far north as the Russian Far-East (Elcysma westwoodi) and as far west as Pakistan (Campylotes).
It excretes an amount of feces, sometimes with a droplet of gluey secretion, and places it on the caudal furca using its anal turret.
Some species of frogs are blinded by the quick changes in light, while nocturnal migratory birds may be disoriented, causing them to lose direction, tire out, or be captured by predators.
Its exceptional preservation provides insight into bamboo evolution and survival during the Ice Age.
Weaponry leads to increased fitness by increasing success in male–male competition in many insect species.
Cuttlefish may be doing this with their active camouflage by choosing to form stripes at right angles to their front-back axis, minimising motion signals that would be given by occluding and displaying the pattern as they swim.
Such injury-feigning displays are particularly well known in nesting waders and plovers, but also have been documented in other species, including snowy owls, the alpine accentor, and the mourning dove.
He was a junior research fellow at Brasenose College Oxford until 1989 when he became a lecturer at the University of Bristol.
External links Tree of Life: Caudata Salamander Gallery Caudata Culture Critter Crossings: Salamander Tunnels at U.S.
Müllerian mimicry has been implicated in the coloration of some Mediterranean nudibranchs, all of which derive defensive chemicals from their sponge diet.
Similarly the threat display of the walking stick phasmid (Peruphasma schultei) is not a bluff: the insect sprays defensive dolichodial-like monoterpene chemical compounds at attackers.
Genotype can also be used to refer to the alleles or variants an individual carries in a particular gene or genetic location.
Spatial disturbance The increasing amount of habitat destruction worldwide as a result of human expansion has given both advantages and disadvantages to different nocturnal animals.
Camouflage While trying to photograph a hen partridge on her nest, Cott waited for hours for the bird to return, finally taking some pictures of the empty nest before giving up.
Form and phase are sometimes used, but are easily confused in zoology with, respectively, "form" in a population of animals, and "phase" as a color or other change in an organism due to environmental conditions (temperature, humidity, etc.).
Allocation cost is related to the channelling of a large quantity fitness-limited resources to form resistance traits in plants.
In Taï National Park and on Tiwai Island, monkeys have a predisposition to threat-specific alarm signals.
Two Napoleonic era skirmishing units of the British Army, the 60th Foot and 95th Rifles, were the first to adopt camouflage in the form of a rifle green jacket, while other British troops largely continued to wear red coats.
Normal individuals of the subspecies varius, which is found on Iceland and the Faroe Islands, already show a tendency towards more extensive white feather bases compared with the nominate subspecies.
Pixellated shapes pre-date computer aided design by many years, already being used in Soviet Union experiments with camouflage patterns, such as "TTsMKK" developed in 1944 or 1945.
He conducted a range of experiments on the colours of polymorphic caterpillars to examine if food, background or other factors are involved in their colour changes.
Another plant that could well be a cryptic mimic of its host is the parasitic Australian mistletoe, Amyema cambagei, which has an "uncanny resemblance" to the foliage of Casuarina trees.
Further, it grades into other means of protection including "the borrowing of protection from aposematic partners" and the use of "fortified hiding-places" and burrows.
It uses occlusion, covering certain facial features; transformation, altering the shape or colour of parts of the face; and a combination of the two.
Dodson, is a form of reproductive floral mimicry where the model belongs to a different species than the mimic.
There's evidence that topsentins are potent mediators of immunogenic inflation, and topsentin and scytonemin are potent inhibitors of neurogenic inflammation.
Nevertheless, statistically we can detect systematic variation at continental scales, and also between habitats, and at various scales down to a few tens of metres.
The points of these bristles usually break off in the wound, and the acrid fluid is pressed into it.
General disturbances in Taï National Park and both general disturbances and leopards on Tiwai Island result in alarm calls assembled into long sequences.
Cott suggests this follows the more general rule that animals resemble their background: in a transparent medium like seawater, that means being transparent.
Subsequent research has provided evidence for only two functions of moth sounds, neither of which involve "auditory crypsis".
Humans In humans, environmental differences due to lifestyle choices are a consideration, for instance the differences between someone who spends much time on the sofa before the television, beer in hand, and an individual who spends his time in the gym or the soccer field can be pronounced.
Defence of Darwinism Edward Bagnall Poulton's 1890 book, The Colours of Animals, renamed Wallace's concept of warning colours "aposematic" coloration, as well as supporting Darwin's then unpopular theories of natural selection and sexual selection.
Emsleyan/Mertensian Emsleyan or Mertensian mimicry describes the unusual case where a deadly prey mimics a less dangerous species.
In his 1896 book Charles Darwin and the Theory of Natural Selection, Poulton described Darwin's On the Origin of Species as "incomparably the greatest work" that the biological sciences had seen.
Here they observed that both seem to be expressed in eyespots, suggesting a relation with the Hh signaling pathway.
Popular science writing Besides the academic textbooks, Stevens has also written for a broader audience and has three books on popular science.
They have aposematic (warning) coloration, often consisting of contrasting bands of colour, and different species of bumblebee in a region often resemble each other in mutually protective Müllerian mimicry.
Both male and female puffins use gaping as a prominent part of their threat display, with "a range of intensities" based on the situation, and with puffins engaging in territorial gape contests, where they mirror each other until one gives up and leaves, or an actual fight occurs.
The end of the glaciation was caused by volcanic release of carbon dioxide and dissolution of clathrate hydrates and may have been hastened by the release of methane from equatorial permafrost.
The Taghanic event is found in the Tully Formation and Marcellus Formation in New York and Pennsylvania, including the Windom shale there.
Mary River Formation and Willow Creek Formation in the southern Alberta plains; into the upper part of the Wapiti Group in the northern Alberta and northeastern British Columbia; and into the upper part of the Brazeau Formation and the Coalspur Formation in the foothills of the Canadian Rockies.
The spreading rate then dropped off, with the decrease occurring around 63 million years ago, by which time the main phase of Deccan volcanism ended.
The extinction pulse at the end of the Katian was selective in its effects, disproportionally affecting deep-water species and tropical endemics inhabiting epicontinental seas.
That year's conference was under-attended and their report attracted little attention, as many experts on impact craters and the K–Pg boundary were attending the Snowbird conference instead.
In Europe it is also known as the Grande Coupure (French for "great cut"), marked by the extinction of many endemic mammal groups present in the region during the Eocene, and the immigration of previously absent mammal groups into Europe from Asia.
Permo-triassic events in the Eastern tethys: stratigraphy, classification and relations with the Western tethys.
The extinction's extreme bias towards larger animals further supports a relationship with human activity rather than climate change.
This boundary is marked by a major extinction event, including that of the dinosaurs along with about 70% of all other species.
In 2007, Underhill continued to present evidence that he argues does not support the impact hypothesis.
However, the dinosaur remains in the Denver Formation are significantly more disarticulated and fragmentary, suggesting that the formation's depositional environment was not conducive to the rapid burial that would have preserved articulated dinosaur skeletons.
The introduced pigs had great success on Mauritius and became abundant, likely killing dodo young and outcompeting adults.
Bird and dinosaur eggs have also been found at the site, along with unidentified hadrosaur fossils (possibly from Edmontosaurus or Kritosaurus).
Regional crustal thinning supports the theory of this rifting event and likely encouraged the rise of the plume in this area.
The metaphor refers to the mythological Medea (representing the Earth), who kills her own children (multicellular life).
Ice ages During the ice ages of the Pleistocene, a clear correlation existed between marine regressions and episodes of glaciation.
Out of all known bird species, (approximately 11,154), 159 (1.4%) have become extinct, with 226 (2%) being critically endangered.
The Lilliput effect, a term coined to describe a phenomenon wherein organisms shrink in size following a mass extinction, affected megalodontid bivalves, whereas file shell bivalves experienced the Brobdingnag effect, the reverse of the Lilliput effect.
The effects of the impact arrived in the form of an onslaught of seismic waves and the rain of spherules that set the surrounding vegetation on fire.
He speculates that it was destroyed around 12,000 years ago by sudden climate change during the Younger Dryas cool period, but that its few survivors taught agriculture, monumental architecture and astronomy to primitive hunter-gatherers around the world.
It is also thermally tolerant and is found in cool-water environments, mild environments as well as tropical warm-water.
Pterygotus had also been designated as containing two subgenera; Pterygotus (Curviramus) and Pterygotus (Erettopterus), but Erettopterus would later be raised to its own genus.
They proposed that these rocks be regarded as the standard to which other rocks thought to be of this age are compared.
Magicians of the Gods: The Forgotten Wisdom of Earth's Lost Civilisation is a 2015 book by British pseudoarchaeology writer Graham Hancock, published by Thomas Dunne Books in the United States and by Coronet in the United Kingdom.
See also Archaeology and racism Legends of the Lost with Megan Fox, a 2018 documentary series References Further reading Hartlep, Michael (8 December 2022).
The Scollard strata span the K-Pg boundary, therefore the lower member of the Scollard provides a record of the last of the dinosaurs, while the upper member records the dawn of the Age of Mammals after the K-Pg extinction event.
Unlike the non-African populations, there is no consensus as to the cause of the African bottleneck.
Most lingering agnathan (jawless fish) groups, such as osteostracans, galeaspids, and heterostracans, also went extinct by the end of the Frasnian.
Increased sulphate flux from volcanism caused an increase in hydrogen sulphide production, which in turn increased phosphorus availability in the water column by inhibiting its burial on the seafloor and enabled the development of anoxia.
Immediately after the CPE, hyperodapedontines were widespread and abundant in the late Carnian world, suggesting that they benefited from the climate fluctuations or floral turnover.
There were four or more separate basaltic flows during this cycle, with thickness ranges of 140 to 600 m (460 to 2,000 ft).
Some critics of the impact theory have put forward that the impact precedes the mass extinction by about 300,000 years and thus was not its cause.
It coincided with a global drop in sea level, and is closely followed by an excursion in geochemical isotopes.
Multiple LIPs have been implicated as causes of the rapid global warming responsible for the onset of OAE1a, including the High Arctic Large Igneous Province (HALIP), the Kerguelen Plateau, and the Ontong Java Plateau.
An element of the paradigm of the Grande Coupure was the apparent extinction of all European primates at the Grande Coupure.
The Shuram excursion occurred around the same time as the boundary between the White Sea and Nama assemblages.
As the balance shifts between the global cryosphere and hydrosphere, more of the planet's water in ice sheets means less in the oceans.
Fossils have been found from Argentina of Late Cretaceous age from the Bajo de la Carpa Formation (dating back to the Santonian), the Pichi Picun Leufu Formation (dating back to the Coniacian and Santonian).
Recent research observed geochemical cyclicity in clastic rocks, showing that the snowball periods were punctuated by warm spells, similar to ice age cycles in recent Earth history.
The concentration of U238 decay products in impact glasses from the crater were used to derive an age of 65.04 ± 1.10 million years.
With the start of the Paleogene, mammals, reptiles - including lizards, snakes, turtles and crocodiles and their relatives, among others - and birds inherit the planet, beginning the age of mammals that persists to the present day.
Distribution The Scollard Formation is present in the subsurface throughout much of southwestern Alberta, and it outcrops extensively along the banks of the Red Deer River in the area of Trochu.
Spore availability Fern spikes cannot occur without ferns already existing in the area, so spikes occur primarily in regions where ferns are already a prominent part of the ecosystem.
A leading model of climate cooling at this time predicts a decrease in atmospheric carbon dioxide, which slowly declined over the course of the Middle to Late Eocene.
Upon analysis of conodont history, it is evident that while P elements vary among conodonts, the S-M array is essentially conserved for over 250 million years.
Anoxia and euxinia Anoxia was another mechanism of extinction; the end-Triassic extinction was coeval with an uptick in black shale deposition and a pronounced negative δ238U excursion, indicating a major decrease in marine oxygen availability.
Others, however, have argued that Rhuddanian anoxia was simply part of the second pulse, which according to this view was longer and more drawn out than most authors suggest.
Proposed by Luis and Walter Alvarez, it is now widely accepted that the extinction was caused by a huge asteroid or bolide that impacted Earth in the shallow seas of the Gulf of Mexico, leaving behind the Chicxulub crater.
These continental clastic rocks are thought to be of Triassic-to-Jurassic age, although they may extend into the Lower Cretaceous.
In the mid to late Triassic, the dinosaurs evolved from one group of archosaurs, and went on to dominate terrestrial ecosystems during the Jurassic and Cretaceous.
The motion of the Indian tectonic plate and the eruptive history of the Deccan traps show strong correlations.
Fossil sites Many fossil sites around the world reflect the changing conditions of the Carboniferous rainforest collapse.
Due to positive feedback for melting, the eventual melting of the snow and ice covering most of Earth's surface would require as little as a millennium.
Rather than one star for every brown dwarf, there may be as many as six stars for every brown dwarf.
Tanis is an extraordinary and unique site because it appears to record the events from the first minutes until a few hours after the impact of the giant Chicxulub asteroid in extreme detail.
This result was presented at the April 2007 annual meeting of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists Underhill then focused his research attention upon understanding why the salt moves where it does when it does and why the so-called crater took the form that it did.
Trilobites Trilobites were hit hard by both phases of the extinction, with about 70% of genera and 50% of families going extinct between the Katian and Silurian.
Deep-water anoxia and euxinia would impact deep-water benthic fauna, as expected for the first pulse of extinction.
Evidence used by proponents of the Tollmann's bolide hypothesis to argue for catastrophic Holocene extinctions have alternative explanations by more frequently occurring geological processes.
Extinction: The Facts is a 2020 documentary film by the natural historian David Attenborough which aired on the BBC.
Geochemistry Subsequent to the first extinctions, excursions in the δ13C and δ18O records are observed; δ13C rises from +1.4‰ to +4.5‰, while δ18O increases from −5.6‰ to −5.0‰.
After the event, conodont abundance surged during the interval of biotic recovery from the Šilalė mass rarity.
At Tanis, unlike any other known Lagerstätte site, it appears specific circumstances allowed for the preservation of moment-by-moment details caused by the impact event.
Leaf analysis of the Genesee flora estimated mean annual temperature at 11 °C (52 °F) with a cold month mean temperature of 2.4 °C (36.3 °F).
In the case of the kākāpō, a critically endangered New Zealand parrot, the sole means of defense against predators is crypsis, involving minimal movement.
The corresponding time period, referred to as the Marinoan Epoch, spanned from the middle Cryogenian to the top of the Ediacaran in modern terminology.
Further shallowing across the Julian-Tuvalian boundary left only a few aberrant limnocytherids (Renngartenella, Simeonella) and cytherurids (Kerocythere) which could manage severe salinity fluctuations in the restricted coastal basins.
In Beringia, megafauna may have gone extinct because of particularly intense paludification and because the land connection between Eurasia and North America flooded before the Cordilleran Ice Sheet retreated far enough to reopen the corridor between Beringia and the remainder of North America.
Evidence points to the glaciation of Antarctica occurring in two steps, with the first step, the less pronounced and more modest step of the two, taking place at the Eocene-Oligocene boundary itself.
The Rajmahal Traps is a volcanic igneous province in Eastern India, covering the parts of Jharkhand, West Bengal and Meghalaya.
The authors of the paper suggested that the impact may have disrupted recovery after the K/Pg extinction.
The Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary occurs in the lower part of the formation, and an exposure of the boundary layer has been identified and documented on South Table Mountain near the city of Golden.
Sunella has often been suggested to be closely related to Isoxys, a genus of Cambrian arthropods with a superficially similar bivalved carapace, though true understanding of Sunella's affinities was for a long time hampered by poor knowledge of its soft tissue.
The Couches de Saint Christophe occupy the following nappes: External Valais Moûtiers unit Roc de l'Enfer unit Petit St.
Unlike the Grande Coupure, which took place via Central and Northern Asia, this later dispersal occurred via a southern corridor.
The Huronian glaciation broadly coincides with the Great Oxygenation Event, a time of increased atmospheric oxygen and decreased atmospheric methane.
Overall, the biotic effects of OAE1a were comparatively minor relative to other LIP-driven extinction events.
The Chota Formation is an Early Campanian to Late Eocene geologic formation of the Cajamarca and western Amazonas Region in northern Peru.
These rings give the crater a somewhat similar appearance to Valhalla crater on Jupiter's moon Callisto, and other craters on Europa.
In addition, possible associated release of deep sea methane clathrates has been potentially implicated as yet another cause of global warming.
See also Death drive Fermi paradox Future of Earth § Climate impact References External links Ward, Peter.
Cenozoic aged fossils unearthed here consist of mammals like multituberculates, barylambdids, and insectivores, as well as alligatorids like Bottosaurus.
Olson's Extinction represents the third highest peak of extinction rates seen in plants throughout the Paleozoic, and the number of genera fell by 25%.
Regressions are, therefore, seen as correlates or symptoms of major extinctions, rather than primary causes.
Island species are especially sensitive to these factors, with 95% of bird extinctions since the late 15th century being native to islands.
Geochemical analyses CAMP lava flows of North America can be geochemically separated in three units: the older ones are classified as high titanium quartz normative (HTQ) basalts (TiO2 = 1.0-1.3 wt%), followed by lava flows classified as low titanium quartz normative (LTQ) basalts (TiO2 = ca.
A major regression could cause marine organisms in shallow seas to go extinct, but mass extinctions tend to involve both terrestrial and aquatic species, and it is harder to see how a marine regression could cause widespread extinctions of land animals.
Description The three glacial diamictite-bearing units of the Huronian are, from the oldest to youngest, the Ramsay Lake, Bruce, and Gowganda formations.
This includes the understanding of crater fill mechanics and chronology, as well as satellite effects such as resurge, pyroclastic explosions, landslides, and more.
Causes While often impacted by many factors simultaneously, habitat loss, exploitation, and invasive species are the greatest influences on avian extinction.
A release on this scale would increase the methane content of the planet's atmosphere by a factor of twelve, equivalent in greenhouse effect to a doubling in the 2008 level of CO2.
Environmental tolerance After the eruption of El Chichón, the fern Pityrogramma calomelanos was observed to regenerate from rhizomes buried by ash, even though the plants' leaves were destroyed.
In paleontology, a fern spike is the occurrence of unusually high spore abundance of ferns in the fossil record, usually immediately (in a geological sense) after an extinction event.
It was probably deposited around the intertidal zone, as the sedimentary rocks of this formation alternate according to sea level changes between deposits of muddy beaches and of shallow ocean.
The negative δ13C excursion preceding the OAE, occurring in the C3 isotopic interval, is believed to reflect volcanic release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and its consequent warming of the Earth.
The confusion of the terms glaciation and ice age has led to the more recent impression that the entire time period represents a single glacial event.
The theory that all Ediacarans became extinct at the start of the Cambrian is disproven if any post-Ediacaran survivors are found.
Classification Habrosaurus is a sister taxa to both Pseudobranchus and Siren which are the only genera in the family Sirenidae.
In 2008 Sahney and Benton confirmed that this was not just a turnover (gradual replacement of one faunal complex by another) but a real extinction event in which a significant drop in the biodiversity of tetrapods on a global scale and community level occurred.
Hawaiian honeycreeper populations are harmed by avian malaria, and its spread to these birds correlates with the arrival of the invasive southern house mosquito, a known avian malaria vector.
Acritarchs and prasinophytes suffered no extinction during the crisis, although their relative frequencies and abundances did vary over the course of the extinction event as marine environments were perturbed.
Thus, while supporting the extinction periodicity, it appears to be inconsistent with the Nemesis hypothesis, though of course not inconsistent with other kinds of substellar objects.
Causes Volcanic activity, particularly that of large igneous provinces, has been speculated to have been the cause of the environmental crisis.
Nannoconids that were highly calcified suffered significant decline during OAE1a, likely as a consequence of ocean acidification, although this causal relationship is disputed by other authors.
Critical to an assessment of the validity of the theory, therefore, is an understanding of the reliability and significance of the evidence that led to the belief that ice ever reached the tropics.
Climate During the Maastrichtian, Seymour Island was located just outside the Antarctic polar circle at around ~64°S latitude.
The sediments were eroded from the Canadian Cordillera, and were transported eastward by river systems and deposited in fluvial channel and floodplain environments.
The Tethys Ocean experienced an increase in humidity at the beginning of OAE1a, while conditions around the Boreal Ocean were initially dry and only humidified later on during the OAE.
The San Francisquito Formation is a geologic formation located in northern Los Angeles County, California.
Multiple reports have described evidence for climatic changes in Antarctica prior to the mass extinction, but the extent to which these affected marine biodiversity is debated.
CNN's Anderson Cooper, Sanjay Gupta and Animal Planet's Jeff Corwin investigate the current state of our planet, focusing on four major areas: global warming, overpopulation, deforestation and species loss.
An object 120 m (390 ft) across smashing into the sea at many kilometers per second would generate enormous tsunamis.
Olson's Extinction is a hypothesised mass extinction that occurred around 273 million years ago in the late Cisuralian or early Guadalupian epoch of the Permian period, predating the much larger Permian–Triassic extinction event.
Their affiliation is, however, poorly secured, mostly based on vertebrae descriptions from only a few fossils.
All three had been declining since the Taghanic event at the end of the Givetian, which also killed off the order Lichida.
Description Cynodontosuchus was the first non-Cenozoic sebecosuchian to be described, being assigned to the suborder in 1896 by Arthur Smith Woodward.
It is classified as a pan-dermatemydid due to the contact between the inguinal buttress and the eighth peripheral bone.
Mantle xenoliths have been described from Kachchh (northwestern India) and elsewhere in the western Deccan and contain spinel lherzolite and pyroxenite constituents.
The Caledonian Mountains were also growing across what is now the Scottish Highlands and Scandinavia, while the Appalachians rose over America.
Evidence also exists for the development of anoxia (a loss of oxygen) in some environments in the oceans.
Nigeremys ("Niger turtle") is an extinct genus of bothremydid pleurodiran turtle from Niger, Mali and Syria.
It was retracted in 2025 by Scientific Reports and was the second retraction by the publication from CRG members.
Marine life Radiolarians increased in their diversity, likely as a result of increased continental weathering amidst the warmth and humidity of the CPE.
The second peak’s start is close to the base of the ludensis-gerhardi graptolite biozone, during the recovery interval.
Beneath the bivalved carapace was a segmented trunk made up of 8 segments, each of which likely had attached one pair of biramous (two-branched) limbs, composed of a stenopodous (stout) endopod (lower leg-like branch) with at least 7 segments (podomeres) and flap-like exopods (upper branches).
The depositional environment included tidally influenced meandering rivers, anastomosed distributary channels, crevasse splays, levees, lakes, ponds, and mires.
The recovery of the global climate from the injection of large amounts of isotopically light carbon lasted for over a million years.
Other Volcanic activity has also been promoted as a possible cause of the cat gap as well as other extinctions during this time period.
Orbit of Sedna The trans-Neptunian object Sedna has an extra-long and unusual elliptical orbit around the Sun, ranging between 76 and 937 AU.
The effect on living creatures even hundreds of kilometers away was immense, and much of present-day Mexico and the United States would have been devastated.
Extinctions The Taghanic event at the Givetian/Frasnian boundary caused many extinctions, including the disappearance of about 50% of coral genera.
This type of animal is called a disaster taxon, an organism that survives a major environmental disruption, perhaps forming the basis for a new adaptive radiation.
These faulted contacts, along with the Damodar Gondwana graben, form a triple junction at the mouth of the Bengal basin.
Agomphus can be distinguished from other pan-dermatemydids by its short axillary buttresses, a highly domed shell (carapace), and broad neural bones.
This theory was later substantiated by other evidence, including the eventual discovery of the impact crater, known as Chicxulub, on the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico.
Even before OAE2, during the late Cenomanian, tropical sea surface temperatures (SSTs) were very warm, about 27-29 °C.
Modern ruminant herbivores produce methane as a byproduct of foregut fermentation in digestion, and release it through belching or flatulence.
It was declared extinct in 1914, upon the death of the last known survivor of the species, Martha, at the Cincinnati Zoo, 20 years after the species became extinct in the wild.
Trigonia is an extinct genus of saltwater clams, fossil marine bivalve mollusk in the family Trigoniidae.
Radiolarians suffered major losses due to a decrease in nutrient availability in deep and intermediate waters.
It is Earth's most severe known extinction event, with the extinction of 57% of biological families, 62% of genera, 81% of marine species, and 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species.
This event may have fragmented the forests into isolated refugia or ecological "islands", which in turn encouraged dwarfism and, shortly after, extinction of many plant and animal species.
It also aired as a special presentation on December 2 and 3, 2007 on Animal Planet & Animal Planet HD.
Catastrophe is a five-part British documentary television series telling the story of the catastrophic events that shaped planet Earth.
The crater is estimated to be over 150 km (93 mi) in diameter and 20 km (12 mi) in depth, well into the continental crust of the region of about 10–30 km (6.2–18.6 mi) depth.
Nitrogen isotopes during the anoxic event record-high rates of denitrification, a biological process which depletes nitrates.
As is seen with regularity in species with abundant food and no predators on an isolated island, their descendants evolved per their environment.
Sediments Old Red Sandstone continent sediments have been studied to evaluate the Taghanic extinction event.
They focused on the extinction intensity of fossil families of marine vertebrates, invertebrates, and protozoans, identifying 12 extinction events over the time period in question.
The heavier 53Cr is oxidized preferentially over the lighter 52Cr, and the soluble oxidized chromium carried into the ocean shows this enhancement of the heavier isotope.
The larger extinction was the Kellwasser Event (Frasnian-Famennian, or F-F, 372 Ma), an extinction event at the end of the Frasnian, about midway through the Late Devonian.
They are one of the largest volcanic features on Earth, with lava erupted from multiple volcanic centres.
On February 15, 2023, the following editor's note was posted on this paper: "Readers are alerted that concerns raised about the data presented and the conclusions of this article are being considered by the Editors.
This paper also suggested annual temperature variability of 5 °C (41 °F) based on Belemnite growth bands, perhaps in agreement with another study which has suggested that sea surface temperatures may have possibly dropped below freezing and formed sea ice at times.
In 1859, his colleague William Dawson discovered the oldest known reptile-ancestor, Hylonomus lyelli, and since then hundreds more skeletons have been found, including the oldest synapsid, Protoclepsydrops.
The basement forms part of the Maya Block and information about its makeup and age in the Yucatán area has come only from drilling results around the Chicxulub crater and the analysis of basement material found as part of the ejecta at more distant K–Pg boundary sites.
This hypothesis proposes that the Sun may have an undetected companion star in a highly elliptical orbit that periodically disturbs comets in the Oort cloud, causing a large increase of the number of comets visiting the inner Solar System with a consequential increase of impact events on Earth.
Although there are other glacial deposits recognized throughout the world at this time, the Huronian is restricted to the region north of Lake Huron, between Sault Ste.
Pelagic cephalopods, other than a drop in overall abundance, were unaffected by the biotic crisis, and saw no meaningful decrease in diversity.
Major orogenic event in Australia: Isan Orogeny influences Mount Isa Block of Queensland – major deposits of lead, silver, copper and zinc are laid down.
Thoracosaurus (chest lizard) is an extinct genus of long-snouted eusuchian which existed during the Late Cretaceous and Early Paleocene in North America and Europe.
Sources include sediment that has been accumulating in a lake since the event of interest and sedimentary rocks such as sandstone.
See also List of prehistoric bony fish genera References Further reading Fossils (Smithsonian Handbooks) by David Ward (Page 215)
It is divided into two subgroups, the Lower Gosau Subgroup which dates from the Turonian to Campanian, approximately 90 to 75 Ma and the Upper Gosau Subgroup which dates to the Santonian to Eocene, about 83.5 to 50 Ma.
The glacial diamictite deposits within the Huronian are on par in thickness with Quaternary analogs.
Phylogenetic analysis has proposed them as being related to the extant file snakes (family Acrochordidae), although these results have been disputed since, and new analysis show this relationship as poorly supported.
He links this to the construction of various ancient monuments, including Göbekli Tepe, Baalbek, the Great Sphinx and the Pyramids of Giza, some of which Hancock claims to be much older than mainstream archaeologists determined.
The gene which selects for earlier birth has increased in the population because those with the gene have more calves over their lifetime.
Euclastes is an extinct genus of sea turtles that survived the Cretaceous–Paleogene mass extinction.
Modeling on an emission of 8.5×1014 g of sulfur, which is 100 times the 1991 Pinatubo sulphur, volcanic winter has a maximum global mean cooling of 3.5 °C (6.3 °F) and returns gradually within the range of natural variability 5 years after the eruption.
Its age is between about 70 and 66 million years, which puts it in the Maastrichtian, a stage that was named after the formation.
Clark (1974) proposed that Hindeodus was most abundant in nutrient-deficient deep waters of normal salinity, but some may have been in shallow water as well.
The End-Ediacaran extinction, also called the Kotlin Crisis, is a mass extinction believed to have occurred near the end of the Ediacaran period, the final period of the Proterozoic eon.
It was formed at or near the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary about 66 mya around the same time as the Chicxulub crater.
It depicts the continuing sixth mass extinction, caused by humans, and the consequences of biodiversity loss and climate change.
The hypercarnivorous nimravid feliforms were extinct in North America after 26 Ma and felids did not arrive in North America until the Middle Miocene with the appearance of Pseudaelurus.
The eruptive volume is between two and six million cubic kilometres, making it one of the most voluminous eruptions in Earth's history.
The authors suggested that even a significantly accelerated methane release would still largely fail to reach the atmosphere.
The Marinoan glaciation, sometimes also known as the Varanger glaciation, was a period of worldwide glaciation.
It consists of sedimentary rocks that were deposited in nonmarine to brackish water environments between the Canadian Rockies in the west and the Western Interior Seaway to the east.
Volcanism was excluded because there were no magnetic anomalies in the crater, which would be expected if eruptions had occurred there.
West argued that Marlon's radiocarbon dating calibration was wrong, which Marlon dismissed due to her use of multiple sites, none of which showed any spike as required by YDIH.
A sequel to Hancock's Fingerprints of the Gods (1995), the book builds on the premise that a highly advanced "lost civilisation" operated in prehistory but was destroyed in a global catastrophe.
Evidence for this period is found in Enorama Creek and other areas in the Ikara-Flinders Ranges National Park, in the Flinders Ranges of South Australia.
Stratigraphy The Denver Formation rests on the Arapahoe Formation, and its base is marked by the first appearance of tuffaceous sediments.
1–4, retrieved 2017-06-05 Weishampel, David B.; Dodson, Peter; Osmólska, Halszka (2004), The Dinosauria, 2nd edition, Berkeley: University of California Press, pp.
The fossil remains of Coniophis were first discovered at the end of the 19th century in the Lance Formation of the US state of Wyoming, and were described in 1892 by Othniel Charles Marsh.
However, the East Siberian Arctic Shelf averages 45 meters in depth, and it is assumed that below the seafloor, sealed by sub-sea permafrost layers, hydrates deposits are located.
The OAE is associated with large igneous province volcanism and an extinction event of marine organisms driven by global warming, ocean acidification, and anoxia.
However, it was found in 2021 that each square meter of coral reef area contains about 30 individual corals, and their total number is estimated at half a trillion - equivalent to all the trees in the Amazon, or all the birds in the world.
However, because it is rare in any case for animals and plants to be fossilized, the fossil record leaves some major questions unanswered.
Specimens of Lystrosaurus individuals have been found preserved in burrows, suggesting that they were habitually fossorial, and were capable of constructing burrows relatively early in life.
The abundances of these algal groups are strongly related to the increase of both the oxygen deficiency in the water column and the total content of organic carbon.
They had determined that a 10-to-15-kilometer-wide (6 to 9 mi) asteroid hurtled into Earth at roughly (34,000 mph) into Chicxulub on Mexico's Yucatán Peninsula.
Methodologies using oxygen-18 isotope values from fossil vertebrate remains to estimate average meteoric water temperature have estimated a mean annual temperature near or just above 0 °C (32 °F).
Mawson recognised a glacial episode within the Marinoan Epoch which he referred to as the Elatina glaciation after the Elatina Tillite (now Elatina Formation) where he found the evidence.
Popular perception is that one or more of the glaciations may have been snowball Earth events, when all or most of Earth's surface was covered in ice.
Orthophragminid foraminifera (late Paleocene–early Eocene larger benthic foraminifera of two families, Discocyclinidae and Orbitoclypeidae) disappeared in the extinction event; in Alpine carbonates, bryozoan facies show an expansion in response to the loss of orthophragminids.
Formations that are stratigraphically equivalent in the western United States are the Horsethief Formation in Montana; the Fox Hills Formation and Lance Formation in Montana; and the Lennup Formation and Muteetse Formation in Wyoming.
Others imply that population control may be possible if resistance to therapy requires a substantial and costly phenotypic adaptation that reduces the organism's fitness.
This is due to one primary factor: patterns of parapatry can easily be explained by an alternate mode of speciation.
Seeing Red: A Study in Consciousness is a 2006 book by the psychologist Nicholas Humphrey, published by Harvard University Press.
have argued, however, that the genetic system needed to reach a critical point that led to a new regulatory system (with introns and the spliceosome), which enabled coordination between genetic networks.
The avoidance response can be extinguished using a procedure called "flooding" or response prevention.
In 2008 Mendoza and Palmqvist determined the relative importance of grass consumption and open habitat foraging in the development of hypsodont teeth using a dataset of 134 species of artiodactyls and perissodactyls.
It had four dorsal spines, three of which were on the anterior end of its dorsal side, and the first spine being placed between and below the eyes, almost like a long nose.
Unlike behaviorism, which studies animals' reactions to non-natural stimuli in artificial, laboratory conditions, ethology sought to categorize and analyze the natural behaviors of animals in a field setting.
Most abundant are pyrite (FeS2), chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), and sphalerite (ZnS), with additions of galena (PbS) and alabandite (MnS).
Two of the key principles of evo-devo, namely that changes in the timing (heterochrony) and positioning (heterotopy) within the body of aspects of embryonic development would change the shape of a descendant's body compared to an ancestor's, were first formulated by Haeckel in the 1870s.
Simple Model Let X {\displaystyle X} , Y {\displaystyle Y} , Z {\displaystyle Z} and U {\displaystyle U} represent the frequencies of the four possible genotypes in a haploid two-locus-two-allele model.
yoyo@home used a BOINC wrapper to completely automate this project by automatically distributing tasks and collecting their results.
the mara, capybara, and agouti) and have similar characters to other cursorial mammals such as reduced digits, more muscles in the proximal portion than distal portion of the limb, and straight, sagittally oriented limbs.
See also Primordial sea Primordial soup Notes External links Minerals and the Origin of Life Astrobiology, Volume 2, Number 4, "The First Cell Membranes"
This synchronized and accelerated breeding leads to a greater chance of survival for each individual offspring.
Beyond this number of alleles, the selective advantage of presence of those alleles in heterozygous genotypes would be cancelled out by continual generation of less fit homozygous genotypes.
To any local group of females, the more such philandering can be successfully resisted—and the greater the proportion of previously excluded males who can be included in the breeding system and persuaded to invest effort—the better.
See also Evolutionary biology External links Description by Princeton U Press Contemporary review by R.A.
According to Ernst Mayr, "The person who more than anyone else deserves credit for reviving an interest in the ecological significance of species was David Lack...
Divergent versus convergent evolution Convergent evolution is the development of analogous structures that occurs in different species as a result of those two species facing similar environmental pressures and adapting in similar ways.
Applications in space travel In 2013, SpaceWorks Engineering began researching a way to dramatically cut the cost of a human expedition to Mars by putting the crew in extended torpor for 90 to 180 days.
He also argued that social institutions are subject to selection process and that economic science should embrace the Darwinian theory.
He served Ahmednagar College till 1981 during which time he held many positions such as that of a lecturer, a professor and a head of the department.
It also had a pair of spines near the base of its caudal peduncle, and a spine in front of the anal fin.
He completed his initial science studies in the United States at the University of Washington, obtaining his B.S.
Severtsov and his students developed a Soviet tradition of integrating physiology, morphology, and evolutionary theory, which influenced later studies of adaptation in both plants and animals.
In social interactions, individuals often engage in direct reciprocity, such as returning favors or lending resources with an implicit understanding of future repayment.
Trachyriolite flows with vertical fluidity emphasizing lava movement in the volcano's feeding channel (over 50 m wide) have been established.
The standard author abbreviation Vlădescu is used to indicate this person as the author when citing a botanical name.
Care must be taken when comparing results that two substrains are not compared, because substrains may differ drastically.
The book argues that only physical and chemical processes are real and the modern neo-Darwinian population genetics approach to evolution is misguided.
An explanation in terms of altruistic behaviors given by Trivers: It has been shown that predators learn specific localities and specialize individually on prey types and hunting techniques.
Similarly, a study used reconciliation methods to differentiate the effect of diet evolution and phylogenetic inertia on the composition of mammalian gut microbiomes.
Limit cases One limit case with an extremely low depositional resolution is a reworked fossil in a younger bed.
Additionally, this may provide immune defence from invading pathogens and stimulating B and T cells to fight viruses and bacteria that infect that portion of the bowel and training them so that immune responses are targeted and more able to fight pathogens.
See also Somatosensory system Thermoreceptor Nociceptor Stretch sensor Vestibular system Stretch receptor References External links Mechanoreceptors at the U.S.
Some tools predict orthologous de novo from the input protein sequences, might not provide any Database.
coloradoensis Gidley, 1907 - early-mid Miocene (Arikareean to Barstovian) of South Dakota (Rosebud Formation), Colorado (Pawnee Creek Formation), & Oregon (Butte Creek Formation) P.
Bode argues this more closely resembles the concept of courtship attraction, and can be considered a separate system from core romantic love components.
As a consequence, there is a trade-off between the advantages and disadvantages of a mutated receptor, leading to polymorphism at this locus.
Ryan Gregory noted that: No reliable observation has ever been found to contradict the general notion of common descent.
Mammalian tooth marks on dinosaur bones may belong to Sineleutherus, suggesting that some haramiyidans scavenged on dinosaur remains.
The paratype can be found at the Early Life Institute (ELI) at Northwest University in Xi'an, China.
cetoides measuring around 17–20 m (56–66 ft) long and weighing up to 15 metric tons (17 short tons).
The bulls do not change as much of their graze time, even if wolves are in the area, because their bodies are not equipped to deal with such poor nutrition right before winter.
representing the invasion of a new mutant allele), the change in genotype frequencies is often written in a different form.
Bacteria and bacteriophage Gene blocks in bacterial genomes are sequences of genes, co-located on the chromosome, that are evolutionarily conserved across numerous taxa.
Warming could involve flooding of the Asian deltas (see also eco refugees), multiplication of extreme weather phenomena and changes in the nature and quantity of the food resources (see Global warming and agriculture).
For example, the 2009 British Women's Heart and Health Study investigated the effects on women's health of the alleles that coded for lactase persistence.
He stayed at this post for one and a half years, and then became permanent research scientist there.
Some authors consider social segregation to be a by-product of habitat segregation but it is now known that social segregation can occur independently of habitat segregation.
It has been considered in some analyses as the oldest insect known, as well as possibly being a flying insect.
Biography Moczek studied biology at the University of Würzburg, where he graduated in 1996 with a master's degree in zoology.
A species complex is usually a group that has one common ancestor (a monophyletic group), but closer examination can sometimes disprove that.
After his tribe is attacked, he leads the survivors and settle in the Mediterranean coast years later.
[6] A high frequency of mtDNA types belonging to Asian supercluster M was peculiar for Yakuts [7] A high frequency of mtDNA types belonging to Asian supercluster M was peculiar for Yakuts
The Encyclopedia of Evolution is a print encyclopedia of evolutionary biology edited by Mark Pagel and published in 2002 by Oxford University Press.
Although the giraffe, as a whole, is not considered to be threatened, if each cryptic species is considered separately, there is a much higher level of threat.
While many studies have shown that women tend to be attracted to more masculine characteristics at high fertility, results have been mixed, and two meta-analyses have concluded that the effect is not robust.
A second restriction comes from the fact that IP rights are only recognized when they generate profit, rather than then when they meet social needs.
Then w ¯ = w A p + w B ( 1 − p ) {\displaystyle {\overline {w}}=w_{A}p+w_{B}(1-p)} , and so Δ p = w − w ¯ w ¯ p = w A − w B w ¯ p ( 1 − p ) {\displaystyle \Delta p={\frac {w-{\overline {w}}}{\overline {w}}}p={\frac {w_{A}-w_{B}}{\overline {w}}}p(1-p)} .
Secondly, new random connections would create wavelength opponency and the new wavelength opponent neurons would be much more sensitive than the non-wavelength opponent neurons.
In this respect it was similar to Core Wars, but differed in that the programs being run in the simulation were able to modify themselves, and thereby evolve.
barbouri individual some 5 million years ago, making them the oldest known unisexual vertebrate species.
Courtship allofeeding is hypothesized to strengthen the bond between pairs or increase a female's nutritional level before laying eggs.
ISBN 978-3-540-68051-2 Nature's Nether Regions: What the Sex Lives of Bugs, Birds, and Beasts Tell Us About Evolution, Biodiversity, and Ourselves.
After that, an economy would move into a new phase characterised by demographic transition (given that investment into less children, although more costly, would yield higher returns) and sustained economic growth.
Likewise, the New World monkeys are thought to have originated in Africa and rafted to South America by the Oligocene, when the continents were much closer than they are today.
In the book, Humphrey proposes an evolutionary account of consciousness, specifically addressing the "hard problem" of phenomenal experience.
Because allelic dominance can disrupt predictions of equilibrium, some models have moved away from using genetic equilibrium as an assumption.
Types of evolutionary landscapes Adaptive landscapes Adaptive landscapes represent populations (of biological entities) as a single point, and the axes correspond to frequencies of alleles or genotypes and the mean population fitness.
Nest building is habitual behaviour, and nest-counts and faecal analysis at each nest site can be used to estimate hominid ape population counts and composition.
In either case, the transition to sharper tools would have allowed different feeding strategies and the ability to process a wider range of foods than australopithecine technology permitted, which would have been advantageous in the changing climate of the time.
in 2014 McFadden co-wrote the popular science book, Life on the Edge: The Coming Age of Quantum Biology, in which he and Jim Al-Khalili further explore quantum biology and particularly recent findings in photosynthesis, enzyme catalysis, avian navigation, olfaction, mutation and neurobiology.
These evolving disease agents adapt to selective pressure introduced by treatment, allowing them to develop resistance to therapy, making it ineffective.
Karyoklepty is this sequestration of nuclei; even after sequestration, the nuclei are still capable of transcription.
He conducted extensive work to demonstrate that there is a genetic basis to the differentiation of plant populations.
For organisms with short generation times, host–parasite coevolution can be observed in comparatively small time periods, making it possible to study evolutionary change in real-time under both field and laboratory conditions.
Thus, evolutionary therapy suggests that treatment of such highly dynamic evolving diseases should be changing over time to account for changes in disease populations.
It has also been suggested that tail-vibrating nonvenomous snakes sympatric with rattlesnakes may be Batesian mimics of rattlesnakes that gain protection from predators by mimicking the rattling sound produced by rattlesnakes (all of which are venomous).
Its cover image of a Panamanian red-eyed tree frog, was taken by Attenborough himself, became an instantly recognisable emblem of the series.
See also Death drive Fermi paradox Future of Earth § Climate impact References External links Ward, Peter.
The advanced brain characters demonstrated in Pteropus could not, therefore, be generalized to imply that all bats are similar to primates.
In some birds, the trachea is grossly elongated, coiling or looping within the thorax; the trumpet manucode's trachea (pictured; top right) is 20 times longer than is predicted for birds of a comparable size.
When he was three, his family moved to East Lansing, Michigan where his father had accepted a position to teach dairy husbandry.
Interactions between territorial fish favor different signal parameters than interactions within social groups of fish.
Volvation is common for subterranean isopods, but only Caecosphaeroma burgundum is able to roll into a hermetic sphere without any outward projections.
The bones were lying in a curved line "measuring upwards of four hundred feet [120 m] in length, with intervals which were vacant." Many of these bones were used as andirons and destroyed; Bry saved the bones he could find, but was convinced more bones were still to be found on the location.
See also Dominance versus overdominance Haldane's rule Heterozygote advantage Inbreeding depression References This article incorporates public domain material from Michael Lynch.
Sexual desire Some of the earliest studies on human ovulatory shifts explored whether women engage in more instances of sexual activity during high fertility, as this could indicate a human estrus-like state.
Many of these bird-attracting plants are ornamental as well, since many have pretty fruits, red in color and often clinging to their branches far into the winter, furnishing grateful additions to the meager fare of hard-weather birds.
While in Iași, he belonged to George Panu's Radical Party, shifting to the Conservative Party once he reached Bucharest.
OrthoFinder determines the correspondence between genes in different organisms (also known as orthology analysis).
Pettigrew suggested that flying foxes, colugos, and primates were all descendants of the same group of early arboreal mammals.
Research and career Stinchcombe started a faculty position at the University of Toronto in 2005, in the Botany Department, and joined the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at its creation.
Then continued postdoctoral research at the University of California, Santa Barbara and the University of California, Berkeley.
Given that UV impacts prebiotic chemistry, understanding stellar UV variations is an important step on the way to finding potential candidates for biosignature searches, as well as understanding more about abiogenesis on Earth.
Since 2020, he has been an associate professor in the Department of Ecology and Vertebrate Zoology, Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, at the University of Łódź, where he obtained his Doctor of Science (DSc) degree in 2023.
An elk associates a full pack with more danger and less of a chance of being able to run the carnivores off.
Specifically, Darwin was unable to explain the source of variation in traits within a species, and could not identify a mechanism that could pass traits faithfully from one generation to the next.
His work there was on flowering time clines and genetics in mouse ear cress (Arabidopsis thaliana), as well as growth plasticity in touch-me-nots (Impatiens capensis).
Recently, it has been possible to construct these trees using molecular data, based on similarities and differences between genetic and protein sequences.
When they are found to be cryptic species complexes, the ecology and the virulence of each of these species need to be re-evaluated to devise appropriate control strategies as their diversity increases the capacity for more dangerous strains to develop.
Mueller found that a chick's heart rate was of greater variance in response to the hawk model without prior, pertinent experience, suggesting a greater innate fear response to the hawk over the goose.
However, the fringe-lipped bat (Trachops cirrhosus), a natural predator of the túngara frog, is an illegitimate receiver of these songs and uses them to locate its prey.
Burrowing lifestyle allowing sheltering from climate and diurnal predators appears to be a basal mammalian trait.
From 2007 to 2021, Kok served as co-editor of the journal Phyllomedusa – Journal of Herpetology and as subject editor of Check List from 2011 to 2014.
The results suggested that high-crowned teeth represent are adapted for a particular feeding environment, not diet preference.
The emerging archosaurian sauropsids, including pseudosuchians, pterosaurs and dinosaurs and their ancestors, flourished after the Early Triassic Smithian–Spathian boundary event and competitively displaced the larger therapsids into extinction, leaving only the smaller burrowing cynodonts.
Sensu lato A Latin phrase meaning 'in the broad sense', it is often used after a binomial species name, often abbreviated as s.l., to indicate a species complex represented by that species.
This process is important for the survival of their species because females will lay their first instar larvae into the body of the cricket, where they will feed and molt for approximately seven days.
It was first formally proposed by Charles Darwin in his book The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex.
in 2013 at Leiden University under the supervision of Edi Gittenberger and Erik Smets, with the dissertation Islands in the Sky: Species diversity, evolutionary history, and patterns of endemism of the Pantepui Herpetofauna.
He aims to explain how physical neural activity gives rise to the subjective feeling of "what it is like" to experience a sensation.
Montgomery became a naturalized United States citizen, and thereafter became active in local politics and events.
Ecogenetics focuses on the relationship between genetics and ecology and species' genetic responses to the environment.
Evolutionary consequences Obligate dependency links the evolutionary fate of the organisms involved, this coupling has the potential to result in both negative and positive consequences.
OneZoom, an interactive fractal explorer of the tree of life, used to make the visualizations in The Ancestor's Tale.
LD 350-1 is the earliest known specimen of the genus Homo, dating to 2.75–2.8 million years ago (mya), found in the Ledi-Geraru site in the Afar Region of Ethiopia.
An example of Rosa's rule is that the number of thoracic segments in adults (or holaspids) may vary in Cambrian trilobite species, while from the Ordovician the number of thoracic segments is constant in entire genera, families, and even suborders.
In evolutionary biology, the flying primate hypothesis is that megabats, a subgroup of Chiroptera (also known as flying foxes), form an evolutionary sister group of primates.
Instead he turned his attention to Zea mays emphasizing the need to study both wild and cultivated plants.
Starting in the 1960s, Orgel explored a variety of cyanide-based activating agents which could have plausibly been present on a young earth.
The history of the development of the hologenome theory and the logic undergirding its development was the focus of a cover article by Carrie Arnold in New Scientist in January, 2013.
Sutherland and co-workers proposed that methyl isocyanide and acetaldehyde could combine to form a pre-biotic phosphate activating agent which could plausibly have formed under early-earth conditions.
Background "Spandrels" was originally written in 1978, and that year Gould delivered it as a talk to the Royal Society.
Non-rattling snakes are more likely to go unnoticed, so survive to reproduce offspring that, like themselves, are less likely to rattle.
Hitoshi Kihara gave Ohta an opportunity to study abroad, and in 1962, she entered the graduate program at North Carolina State University with support from a Fulbright scholarship.
The philosopher of mind Daniel Dennett, in his 1995 book Darwin's Dangerous Idea, developed the idea of a Darwinian process, involving variation, selection and retention, as a generic algorithm that is substrate-neutral and could be applied to many fields of knowledge outside of biology.
Awards and honors He is a Foreign Member of the Linnean Society, London (1990) and of the Ukraine Academy of Sciences (1997).
These methods have been extended and automated in twelve different databases the most advanced being AYbRAH Analyzing Yeasts by Reconstructing Ancestry of Homologs as well as these following databases right now.
This is unlike savaging in pigs, who don't cannabalize piglets and are not motivated to savage by hunger.
The mobbing call is at a much higher frequency than the seet call, allowing for the great tits to recruit nearby individuals of their species when mobbing perched predators in an attempt to chase them out of the area.
Synergy is the concept that a combined effect of two or more entities is greater than the sum of their individual effects.
Usage of supercluster for populations as well as haplotypes makes the term ambiguous and may require clarification when the word is used.
He developed what is now known as Lack's Principle which explained the evolution of avian clutch sizes in terms of individual selection as opposed to the competing contemporary idea that they had evolved for the benefit of species (also known as group selection).
Reproductive value which implies that sexually reproductive value measures the contribution of an individual of a given age to the future growth of the population.
Every few minutes, the light in the room the dog was occupying was turned off, while the other remained on.
In 1987, Trivers told a symposium on reciprocity that he had originally submitted his article under the title "The Evolution of Delayed Return Altruism", but reviewer W.
A specific balance between graze and browse, with graze being in the majority, is needed for elk to be considered healthy.
Conclusion The book also contains an extensive appendix containing the majority of Haldane's mathematical treatment of the subject.
Death Montgomery died on April 17, 1911, after suffering a number of strokes and is buried next to Ney at Liendo.
It was later declared a nomen dubium by Uhen (2013), but Gingerich and Zouhri (2015) reassigned it to the genus Eocetus.
Over time, the isolation by distance model reveals a decline in local isolation and a rise in short and long range migration and the Sandy population experienced an isolate breakdown over time.
Rather, many biologists resisted the implication that megabats and microbats (or echolocating bats) formed distinct branches of mammalian evolution, with flight having evolved twice.
The mean population fitness W ¯ {\displaystyle {\overline {W}}} is a measure of the overall fitness of the population.
The family set up home in Crimea, where he found work as a botanist looking at varieties of grape; he also created a substantial collection of diatoms from the Black Sea.
In this way, in sexually reproducing organisms, any spontaneously occurring mutations that occur in the mutation accumulation line should have a random chance, due to the independent assortment, of being fixed in the next generation of line.
The main measurements that are derived from results of a Bateman–Mukai method are: the deleterious mutation rate, U {\displaystyle U} , and the average selection coefficient, E ( a ) {\displaystyle E(a)} , although these must be derived from phenotype observation.
Eventually they became so big that it was no longer possible for them to get both safe and proper sleep on bare branches alone, so they started building sleeping platforms in the trees.
The Bactritidae gave rise to the Ammonoidea in the Early Devonian starting with an early Bactrites and going with increasingly tight curvature from Lobobactrites to Cyrtobactrites, leading to the gyroconic Anetoceras of the Anarcestida (Ammonoidea).
Current status and future extinctions Peter Ward proposes that the current man-made climate change and mass extinction event may be considered to be the most recent Medean event.
"Evidence for the existence of three primary strategies in plants and its relevance to ecological and evolutionary theory" (PDF).
David Ira Jablonski (born 1953) is an American professor of geophysical sciences at the University of Chicago.
The book describes itself as "an examination of the whole question of native and alien species, and what might be called an alien invasions industry—and its implications".
The remainder of the equation, [ q ( W 2 − W 1 ) + p ( W 1 − W 0 ) ] {\displaystyle {\big [}q(W_{2}-W_{1})+p(W_{1}-W_{0}){\big ]}} , refers to the mean effect of an allele substitution.
He also discussed the possibility of life without sunlight/starlight, e.g., on the surface of brown dwarfs.
Natural selection fails to optimize mutation rates for long-term adaptation on rugged fitness landscapes.
However, because complete dominance causes the phenotypes of homozygote dominants and heterozygotes to be the same, it was not until the advent of molecular genetics from the 1960s onwards that heterozygosity in populations could be measured.
From 2000 to 2006 he worked at the Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation in Sabah, Malaysian Borneo, where he studied land snail ecology and evolution in tropical forests, caves, and limestone habitats.
Massimo Pigliucci (Italian: [ˈmassimo piʎˈʎuttʃi]; born January 16, 1964) is an American philosopher and biologist who is professor of philosophy at the City College of New York, former co-host of the Rationally Speaking Podcast, and former editor in chief for the online magazine Scientia Salon.
Enophthalmos in Horner's syndrome is an illusion created by the subtle ptosis of the upper eyelid caused by paralysis of the superior tarsal muscle.
The Medea hypothesis is a term coined by paleontologist Peter Ward for a hypothesis that contests the Gaian hypothesis and proposes that multicellular life, understood as a superorganism, may be self-destructive or suicidal.
The more recent the ancestral population two species have in common, the more closely they are related.
(1988) provide seven requirements which must be fulfilled in a species for the information centre hypothesis to be supported.
The quantity pq is maximized when there is an equal frequency of each gene, when p = q {\displaystyle p=q} .
Further, natural or artificial selection cannot act on personality unless there is a mechanism for its inheritance.
Classification and description Bactritida (Erben 1964) are characterized by orthoconic to cyrtoconic shells that may be long or short with a narrow siphuncle invariably in contact with the ventral wall and sutures uniformly with V-shaped ventral lobes.
The cold-water fish will eventually leave their natural geographical range to live in cooler waters by migrating to higher elevations.
He has published more than 100 articles in scientific journals on subjects as wide-ranging as bacterial genetics, tuberculosis, idiopathic diseases and computer modelling of evolution.
Indirect fitness is defined as the amount of fitness gained through aiding related individuals offspring.
The loss of legs in snakes and other squamates is another good example of genes changing their expression pattern.
There are two types of caching behavior: larder hoarding, where a species creates a few large caches which it often defends, and scatter hoarding, where a species will create multiple caches, often with each individual food item stored in a unique place.
Since acoelomorphs lack a heart, coelom or organs, the urbilaterian probably did too — it would presumably have been small enough for diffusion to do the job of transporting compounds through the body.
Eigenmannia is a weakly electric fish that can generate electric discharges through electrocytes in its tail.
Physiology Endothermia that enabled early mammals to become independent of solar radiation and environmental factors.
In 1956, a study conducted by Colson and White on the mating patterns of kittiwake showed that the effect only extended for two metres and that, for groups of birds who nested more sparsely, a longer breeding time was evident in the population as a whole.
Sensory self-stimulation Anting has been compared to human activities such as smoking and other external stimuli that serve no biological purpose and are just for self-stimulation.
According to science historian Jan Sapp "Reinheimer is virtually unknown among contemporary biologists and historians." Reinheimer coined the term "bioeconomics" in 1913.
While theory-driven behavior may have yet to become fully integrated into conservation, its importance is clear and application necessary.
In 2004, he assumed the position of assistant professor at the Department of Biology at Indiana University, where he was promoted to associate professor in 2009 and full professor in 2014.
There are two additional conditions necessary "...for reciprocal altruism to evolve:" A mechanism for detecting 'cheaters' must exist.
Legacy Barnabas was known to have done pioneering research on haemoglobins of mammals, with respect to the sequence of amino acids in them, and his studies helped in a wider understanding of the subject.
While most of the mutations that affected encoded proteins were harmful, as long as they were not too significant ("nearly neutral"), they could remain in the population.
The behaviour was described by Erwin Stresemann in German as Einemsen in the German ornithology journal Ornithologische Monatsberichte (Volume XLIII, p.
He was elected member of the Royal Physiographic Society in Lund 1939, the Royal Swedish Academy of Agriculture and Forestry 1945, the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala 1945 and doctor honoris cause at Agricultural College upon his retirement in 1957.
Heritability estimates of 0.11 and 0.25 from half-sib analyses have demonstrated that selection against sow savaging of pigs is possible; however, it may be slow to show effectiveness.
Jiggins and Mallet surveyed a range of literature documenting every phase of parapatric speciation in nature positing that it is both possible and likely (in the studied species discussed).
In 1983, Barnabas joined the National Chemical Laboratory as a Jawaharlal Nehru Fellow and after the tenure of the fellowship in 1985, he continued at the laboratory as the head of the Division of Biochemical Sciences.
Finally, as the name implies, the heterotrophic theory indicates that early life on earth consisted entirely of heterotrophs.
Like the eggs of later pterosaurs and modern reptiles, the eggs of Darwinopterus had a parchment-like, soft shell.
isis would have aimed for the skulls of its victims to kill its prey, and then subsequently torn its meals apart, based on the disarticulated remains of the Dorudon skeletons.
Evolutionary principles One character of biology is evolution, evolutionary theory is also the theoretical foundation of comparative genomics, and at the same time the results of comparative genomics unprecedentedly enriched and developed the theory of evolution.
They inhabit a lush forest, still having some artificial remains like bits of glass, bitumen and copper.
A gene for (behavioral) selective altruism can be favored by (natural) selection if the altruism is primarily directed at other individuals who share the gene.
Thus, haplotypes are shared mainly between very closely related individuals, as the genetic information in two related individuals will be much more similar than between unrelated individuals.
This hypothesis has been suggested as anting has no obvious function, it is non-adaptive, birds are said to achieve pleasure from anting and anting has characteristics of a habit.
Classical examples of serial homologies are the development of forelimbs and hind limbs of tetrapods and the iterative structure of the vertebrae.
Similarly, adding eggs to nests of some male fish species may promote increased spawning by females who prefer to spawn with males already possessing eggs.
The Simulator005 module of evolution@home was designed to better predict the behaviour of Muller's ratchet.
It is an amphibious creature resembling a frog and like the Gillman, it has a human face and a tentacle-like tube atop its forehead.
Parker Brothers had planned a corresponding board game as a tie-in to the film, which was released as Universe in 1967; the cover art on the box included a still from the unused cut.
For instance, some design ideas for the Terapusmordax (a giant bat-like creature) depicted it as flying using back legs that had developed into wings, a design scrapped because it was deemed too unlikely.
He gains the ability to project illusions and uses them to convince people the hotel is haunted, in order to attract guests.
The Crustacean Dragons also do not look like reptilian dragons, but have the front part of a crab as their head/body including claws and their legs are composed of small legs in a circle that undulate in and out as it moves and/or stands.
Omega-level mutants are a subset of mutants appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics with the most powerful potential of their mutant abilities.
In the 2002 film Another movie with the same name was produced by Arnold Leibovit and directed by Simon Wells in 2002.
He wrote that it was a "silly episode with no serious point" and the long couch gag indicated that the episode would be shorter.
Episodes As of January 2025 the podcast has aired 135 episodes, and posts bi-weekly on the first and third Wednesdays of the month.
During the production of its remake King Kong (2005), the production team decided that the animals presented in the new film were to be descendants of Mesozoic animals who had evolved in the intervening millions of years, rather than evolutionary stagnant survivors.
Introduced in the year 802,701 A.D., Weena is a member of the Eloi species, evolved from the human leisure class, and lives among other Eloi, who are preyed upon by the Morlocks, another species evolved from the human working class.
Development Live A Live was developed by Development Division 5 of Square, noted as creators of the Final Fantasy series.
During the Krakoan Age, Krakoa expanded to the Blue Area of the Moon, the Green Area on Mars and beyond the solar system.
From Time to Fly expansion: From Continents expansion: In this case, the first player shuffles the deck and hand out 20 cards to each player.
He then meets with evolutionary psychologist Steven Pinker to discuss how morals can be compatible with natural selection.
He is best known for creating the pointed ears of Spock in the television series Star Trek (1966), and for his groundbreaking prosthetic make-up work on the Planet of the Apes film franchise.
After more than five years in production, The Tree of Life premiered in competition at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival, where it was awarded the Palme d'Or.
The Tree of Life received three Oscar nominations: Best Picture, Best Director and Best Cinematography.
Now able to co-exist between the habitats of water and dry land, the Frogman is now capable of powerful leaps and the consumption of insectoid organisms; however, like the real-world frog, the creature still requires the moisture of water to stay alive.
Discoveries regarding extrasolar planets were first published in 1989 raising the prospect of whether life (as we know it or imagine it) could be supported on other planets.
Creation Ministries International answered these allegations in a statement about how the film was made.
The new X-Men team found the original X-Men and by using her powers, Polaris launched Krakoa into outer space.
According to the series, human beings are actually a 'first stage' organism that can be further mutated into monstrous creatures called Zoanoids, which supposedly account for many modern-day myths of vampires and werewolves.
References Expansions (other simulations) Mesozoic Valley – Released in 2019, this expansion was presented as a large rock in the game, and players all around the world had to tap on the rock to crack it open.
Charmer - Charm snakes to a vine to make their pots disappear, without letting the lids fall and create another pot.
See also Spore Impossible Creatures L.O.L.: Lack of Love Evolution: The Game of Intelligent Life E.V.O.: Search for Eden Creatures SimEarth Unnatural Selection (video game) References External links SimLife at MobyGames SimLife : Maxis at the Internet Archive Manual
In addition, it is estimated that more than a quarter of all stars are at least binary systems, with as many as 10% of these systems containing more than two stars (trinary etc.)—unlike our own sun, which has no companion.
With inspiration drawn from observing the wildlife from his years in the plantations in Malaya, the book was highly praised and given such reviews as this example from England's Guardian newspaper: "Classic science fiction ...
In the 2012 Academy Award for Best Picture-winning film Argo, Chambers was portrayed by John Goodman.
As the clan slowly expands, the player character can perform social tasks like calling members of the clan to hunt and explore together, or migrating across the map to settle down in a new home.
The game is 2D and similarly to the main game the player takes control of nichelings with which they can hunt, forage, and fight off predators.
He says that biology classes should teach both evolution and creationism and let the students decide for themselves which one to believe.
The estates of both Clarke and 2001: A Space Odyssey director Stanley Kubrick were reported as having "offered their full support", but the extent of their involvement was not known at the time.
By analyzing the dead dragon's reproductive system, Tanner concludes the corpse is actually that of a baby, having been killed by the humans.
Jacobs had been able to secure financing for the project on the strength of Fox contract star Monroe's agreement to star in it, but her death in 1962 forced Jacobs to replace her with Shirley MacLaine.
HelpEDNA is a puzzle text adventure, in which the player is a contact that has begun receiving messages from an unknown character.
Also featured are the sinister Goa'uld, who pose as gods to enslave the humans, as well as the benevolent Asgard, who pose as gods to protect various groups of less advanced humans throughout the galaxy.
On their 35th anniversary, Bunty's parents, Kishen and Mala get in an argument because of her friend Kundan.
The book is written in the form of a field guide and natural history of the version of Skull Island and its creatures as presented in the film.
According to Trundy, Jacobs stated, "I will never in my lifetime make a film that cannot be seen by the whole family" and gave the rights to Midnight Cowboy to his associate, Jerome Hellman, for no fee, saying, "I will not have my name on it".
Rubbermaid Rubbermaid (Andrea Margulies) possessed an elastic and malleable body that allowed her to stretch any part of her anatomy to great lengths and absorb physical damage without injury.
Reception Splice received generally positive reviews, gaining an aggregate review score on Metacritic of 86 for iOS and Android.
Reception Comic Book Resources ranked Xavier's Security Enforcer 3rd in "16 X-Men Teams You Totally Forgot About", 11th in "X-23: 15 Directions To Take The Character After The Logan Movie" , and 8th in "Darkest Alternate X-Men Versions In Marvel Comics".
Likewise, Emma Stefansky of Thrillist said the alien creatures were fun, but "it's the Earth-bound science that ends up being the most interesting part".
To turn the score into a "driving force that keeps audiences paying attention," Doyle employed an African-American chorus and focused on percussion and "low and deep" orchestra sounds.
Bonus Stage gave the game 6 out of 10 points and said, "[...] the AI is pretty incompetent" and Sparkle 2 Evo "[...] has a lot of cool design and graphical appeal".
However, this derivation is unlikely as the word 'Elohim' is already in the plural, with the singular being 'eloah'.
Rohan expresses his intention to petition for preservation of the planet's artificial ecosystem, which fascinates him.
Complementing the Adventure Creator is the Planet Creator, which is accessed from within the Adventure Creator.
I can't help but smile as wide as my slimy little friends." [sic] Steve Neilsen from Games Mojo awarded it 4.5 out of 5 stars, stating that "Slime Rancher is fun and addictive game, with a fun premise and cute creatures.
Parker (パーカー博士, Pākā Hakase) Voiced by: Miyuu Tsuji (Miyuu), Rie Hanafusa (Rie), Shio Kisui (Mii) The members of elfin', who sing the openings and endings and appear in an educational segment with Morris.
UPN requested a modified ending to the episode, as the original version had Phlox and Archer disagreeing over what to do with the Valakians.
"Dear Doctor" is the thirteenth episode of the first season of the American science fiction television series Star Trek: Enterprise, and originally aired on January 23, 2002, on UPN.
According to Day, the life of Darwin IV "makes the point that alien life, if it is detected, will challenge our abilities to understand and even comprehend it".
It evolved into Gassie, a slime creature who behaves like a dog and can detect and track other Genus creatures.
Nightcrawler discovers that female Bamfs differ from the males in that they are taller, resembling female versions of himself.
This station is located near the Altes Fährhaus, which was the building originally opened by Otto Zacharias as the Plön Biological Station in 1917, before the laboratory was moved to the location of the current Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology.
The film was produced by The Montecito Picture Company and released by DreamWorks Pictures in the United States on June 8, 2001, and by Columbia Pictures internationally.
The book and its associated concepts have sometimes appeared in publications covering the nature, history, and 'best practices' of palaeoart, particularly in the context of emphasizing the need for modern depictions of dinosaurs to be consistent with how living animals look and behave.
They hire Elias, a former circus performer, to manage their growing collection, which they house in a concrete barn with a row of cages down one side.
Plot summary A mysterious alien civilization uses a tool with the appearance of a large crystalline monolith to investigate worlds across the galaxy and, if possible, to encourage the development of intelligent life.
The X-Mansion appears in Spider-Man: The Animated Series two-part episode "The Mutant Agenda" and "Mutants' Revenge".
With the series' limited distribution, it is difficult to say if the connection was more than a nominal one.
They make a sort of "telepathic" contact with "YNDRD", referred to by the students as Yendred, a highly philosophical Ardean, as he begins a journey across the western half, Punizla, of the single continent Ajem Kollosh to learn more about the spiritual beliefs of the people of the East, Vanizla.
The first details of Spore Hero began to emerge when MTV's Totilo had an interview with designer Lucy Bradshaw.
Wells, Wells explained: "My early, profound and lifelong admiration for [Jonathan] Swift...is particularly evident in a predisposition to make the stories reflect upon contemporary political and social discussions." He then noted, "Mr.
The film grossed $208,545,589 in the US & Canada and $500,290,000 in other countries, for a worldwide total of $708,835,589.
For this to happen a human population must isolate itself and interbreed until it becomes a new species.
The player can then unlock one of several "genes", altering the value of which changes their creature.
They come across a planet that is very similar to their own homeworld, and is inhabited by a species of intelligent but primitive humanoids.
As the bear strikes the other end of the lever, that mustelid ends up hitting the bell head first before going fainted.
A flashback shows that in 1475, a lone female dragon is living on the verge of extinction within the Carpathian Mountains, looking for a mate.
Mermaids: The Body Found is a pseudo-documentary television program originally aired on American TV channels Animal Planet (May 27, 2012) and Discovery Channel (June 17, 2012).
Plot Everybody is a caveman, but while they wear animal hide, they also wear shoes that are rather modern day in style.
In November 2020, a new status quo for Powerhouse, who was considered an omega-level mutant, was established that he was not a mutant in Fantastic Four (vol.
The show opens with the EFX Master (now a projection of James Earl Jones' face) instructing the Masters of Magic, Laughter, Spirit, and Time to find a human who has "lost their imagination" and bring them to EFX.
Tokita was concerned about creating the Middle Ages story due to its similarity to the ongoing Final Fantasy, SaGa and Mana series.
As a result of natural selection that plays out on the game – positive mutations remain more often than negative.
He visits her dorm and accuses Rachel of rejecting Christianity, being brainwashed, and disrespecting God.
According to The New York Times "it's easy to forget that [the film] isn't a serious documentary" after the fiction disclaimer at the beginning, judging the computer graphics to be well made, sometimes beautiful, but not impressive "to the point of wonder".
The Croods: A New Age (Music from the Motion Picture) is the soundtrack album composed by Mark Mothersbaugh for the film of the same name and released by Back Lot Music on November 20, 2020.
The National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (responsible for documentary Emmys) recognized the program with awards in 1978, 1981, 1983, and 1989.
Slime Rancher is a farm life sim video game developed and published by American indie studio Monomi Park.
The timetree was created using animated computer-generated imagery in scenes every 10 minutes during the 2-hour movie.
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
Now being a cross between the nano-technological being in the X-51 miniseries and the living Swiss Army knife of Nextwave, Machine Man is now suffused with nanites able to effortlessly change his appearance from his earliest, jump-suited look to the more-humanoid looks of Nextwave.
In Dan Simmons' Ilium In Dan Simmons' Ilium novel, "Eloi" is a nickname for the lazy, uneducated, and uncultured descendants of the human race after the post-humans have left Earth.
He may act cold to Kitty but he does like her a lot, especially after she tries to protect him during the school trip to New York.
Electrical issues forced the studio to upgrade the residence, ultimately costing them roughly the same as if they had moved into an office in the first place.
Yaan does not understand his visitors' language or technology (which includes an advanced robot) and he regards them as gods of some kind.
It stars Andy Serkis, Jason Clarke, Gary Oldman, Keri Russell, Toby Kebbell, Kodi Smit-McPhee, and Kirk Acevedo.
Many time-traveling scenes were entirely computer generated, including a 33-second shot in the workshop where the time machine is located.
Plot Planet of the Apemen: Battle for Earth is a dramatised documentary on how Homo sapiens once shared the world with other species of hominid.
This is the network's most watched telecast since the Steve Irwin memorial special in September 2006.
On Four Finger Discount, Guy Davis and Brendan Dando enjoyed the episode and thought the quality matched the episodes of the classic Simpsons era of the 1990s.
Along with directing, Aja signed on to produce the film and rewrite the script with his filmmaking partner Grégory Levasseur.
The Croods' journey takes an unexpected turn when Grug discovers a massive wall and leads the family over it into a paradise-like land on the other side.
On her first day at school she meets Bobby (Iceman) who acts very cold to her, and she is taken in by the members of the Hellfire Club.
The Harmonized Tariff Schedule was amended to eliminate the distinction between dolls and other toys, which are now in the same category.
Episodes David Attenborough's Rise of Animals: Triumph of the Vertebrates In December 2011, a second series of First Life was announced by media website Realscreen.
We simply included what seems to be a very clear statement that Darwin had to 'explain everything!' (Implied: 'all aspects of life')" American skeptic Jim Lippard, commenting on CMI's response before he had seen the film, said, ".
The existence of this species is only hypothesized by the rest of humanity, but it is obvious because the Monolith was immediately identified as an artefact of non-human origin.
Action takes place both in Victorian England and on Mars, as the time machine displaces the duo through space (in addition to time).
The theory of evolution by natural selection is now orthodoxy, but when it was unveiled it caused a storm of controversy, from fellow scientists as well as religious people.
Milk had previously collaborated with Tim Haines and Loud Minds on an immersive attraction, Dinosaurs in the Wild, which toured the United Kingdom from 2017 to 2018.
Indeed, details worked out with input from space industry experts, such as the structure on the first satellite that Pietrobon refers to as a "conning tower", match the original concept sketch drawn for the nuclear bomb platform.
The scene is set in Prehistoric France some 35,000 years ago, where migrating Homo sapiens looking for food animals, chance upon a community of Neanderthals.
A remake was released in 2001, starring Mark Wahlberg as Leo Davidson, with Tim Roth as General Thade and Helena Bonham Carter as Ari.
In Australia, a Region 4, four-disc DVD and Blu-ray Disc was released by ABC DVD/Village Roadshow on 7 October 2010.
Jake's siblings, Zane and Laura, take a canoe to go fishing on a small sandbar island and become stranded in the middle of the lake due to Zane neglecting to properly secure the canoe.
The track listing is as follows: Critical reception The Time Machine received generally mixed reviews upon release.
Enemies The enemies in Chimera Beast are mostly animals, some with equivalent Earth versions and some without.
Still craving vengeance, Emma releases an army of hidden Sentinels reprogrammed to kill Inhumans and begins massacring the Ennilux.
To handle all of this....a "control room"...was used to keep track of all progress on the film." Ordway, who worked on designing the station and the five principal space vehicles, has noted that U.S.
A very strong 15 to 20-minute compilation assembled from the long album awaits any enthusiast of children's scores." Thomas Glorieux of Maintitles wrote "In parts, and most definitely in the second part The Croods becomes a thoroughly enjoyable experience.
In addition, a model of the ship's head and a few body segments were used for close-up shots of Discovery docked with the Leonov.
In May 2024, Robert Wood of Screen Rant hinted the possibility of 'Omega Level' label being altered after the end of Krakoan Age as House of X's definition was defined by in-universe nation of Krakoa.
After experiencing a hallucination brought on by ingesting a hallucinogenic plant (possibly a reference to the stoned ape theory), he realizes that the stone ax he has been carrying after finding it at the site where his tribe was killed is a weapon.
The comic makes many references to other comics and film - including Back to the Future, Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, Maus, and Watchmen - and parodies many tropes of science fiction and pulp story-telling.
Reception Sparkle 2 Evo received average reviews, criticizing its simplicity and praising its graphics.
Victor Millson: Floyd's bureaucratic successor, rival and contact for official Earth/American business.
Gamble also enjoyed the inclusion of Robert Winston as presenter, referring to him as a "Dr Who of human evolution" who travelled through time and offered factoids and insight.
At the conclusion of the expedition, Darwin IV is left in the same pristine state it was in prior to the expedition, with the exception of a metal obelisk placed in a remote area by the Yma.
Though he escapes on a raft away from "The Trident", Redmond is eaten by fauna he accidentally unleashes on himself in the raft.
Adventure mode Players can take their space captains on adventures, with each adventure having a specific goal to complete.
The Planet of the Apes novels began with Pierre Boulle's novel La Planète des singes was translated and reprinted several times after its original publication in 1963.
Amongst the next shots were a human foetus, shadowy figures behind scaffolding and even the insides of a bell pepper (a somewhat exotic fruit in the UK in the 1970s).
Multiple mutants can achieve the upper limit of a power at the same time on which Jordan White stated that he did not believe there is anything in the definition that said there can be only one.
The game has been met with critical acclaim for its presentation, gameplay, and story, although it has been criticized for its difficulty.
The Eloi are technically adept but do not understand the technology; they regress and unlearn millennia of culture, thought and reason, until they are satisfied with the pleasure of merely existing.
An appendix explains various other aspects of two-dimensional science and technology which could not fit into the main story.
As he learns to relate to the crew, he stops licking them and marking his territory, and even begins to show genuine concern for others on several occasions.
The title of the series was revealed in January 2026, and the release date of the series was announced to be in the first quarter of 2026.
Hero Editor The Hero editor in Darkspore has been described as an enhanced version of the one found in Spore, with thousands of parts to collect.
Quick wrote the 2001 Planet of the Apes novelization; he also wrote two prequel novels (Planet of the Apes: The Fall (2002) and Planet of the Apes: Colony (2003)), and several other book tie-ins were published.
The most well-known of these include Kali tragus (also known as Salsola tragus), or prickly Russian thistle, which arrived in North America in the late 19th century, and gained a reputation as a noxious weed.
Thirty years later, Poole is married, and a member of a small team responsible for monitoring Europa.
Official ratings from BARB show that it attracted an audience of 6.34 million viewers, a healthy figure for a factual programme.
Players take on the role of Kahu, a young aspirant Cocoon Master, navigating elemental forest lairs in search of orbs that will save him from a parasitic curse.
The sinkhole and the sudden appearance of Teratornis attract the attention of the United States Department of Homeland Security, who are investigating a similar event in the Mojave Desert.
Release Theatrical The Croods: A New Age was theatrically released in the United States on November 25, 2020, by Universal Pictures, which was then followed by a PVOD release on December 18.
Alexander Hartdegen is an inventor in 1899 at Columbia University who devotes his life to making a time machine after the murder of his girlfriend Emma.
This focus is communicated through an exploration of views of dinosaurs and related animals that are unusual and sometimes even confusing to viewers, but which are well within the bounds of behaviour, anatomy and soft tissue that we see in living animals.
All four of the original film series' sequels spawned novelizations by established science fiction writers of the day, each of which went through multiple reprints of their own.
Paleontological accuracy Initial response Upon the release of The New Dinosaurs, many of the animals featured were criticized by paleontologists and science writers, particularly in that so many of the animals are entirely convergent with actual modern-day animals.
The film follows the Croods, Guy, and their pets Belt, Chunky, and Douglas as they discover an idyllic, walled-in paradise that meets all of their needs.
Remarkable advances allowed them to make the radical move onto land, and then take to the skies with the advent of flight.
Dawkins talks with Dutch primatologist and ethologist Frans de Waal about empathy among chimpanzees.
Eco is a wire-frame 3D evolution life simulation game developed by Denton Designs for the Amiga and Atari ST.
The editors wrote, "Part RTS game, part sandbox, part Sea Monkeys — Darwinia's retro-cool is backed up with intense and often surprising strategic moments." It was nominated for Best Game in the GameShadow Innovation in Games Awards 2006 and listed in 1001 Video Games You Must Play Before You Die.
Plot In 2 million BC, during the Neo-Pleistocene era, an asteroid collides with Earth "near Manchester", causing the extinction of the planet's dinosaurs, but sparing a tribe of cavemen living near the impact site.
His inner monologue refers to the others as his "hairy heads" and he often communicates with the other evolved creatures.
The Sky Spirits, who are actually advanced, space-faring aliens, granted these primitive humans a genetic alteration which influenced their development.
The title was chosen to appeal to the outdated stereotype of human ancestors being cave-dwellers (the programme does not portray hominins in caves until the last episode) in order to turn viewer's expectations on their head and showcase that the past was not necessarily what they imagined it to be.
Plot Protagonists in the Purga–human line Characters listed below descend from Purga and are either ancestral to or descended from humans.
On being compared to the musical works of Jerry Goldsmith and Danny Elfman, who scored the previous instalment, and its impact on the tonal and primitive quality, Doyle opined that the musical approach would be fresh.
Sound The "Bamf" sound is caused by air rushing into the space where Nightcrawler's body once was after he had teleported.
Staples has a close shave, when the Dinocyon escapes its cage in an attempt to prey on the Stenomylus and sees him as an adequate substitute.
The second wave of migration took a more northerly course, splitting somewhere in the area around what is now called Syria to sweep to interior Asia, where it split several more times in Central Asia, north of Afghanistan.
On August 23, 2016, it was reported that Kevin and Dan Hageman had been hired to rewrite the script.
Controversy and inaccuracies The BBC has issued multiple statements about inaccuracies within the series.
After unlocking multiple genes the player can become a fast dog-like quadruped, a bird, a scorpion or a humanoid.
Director Vipul Amrutlal Shah however insists that it is an adaptation of a Gujarati play of the same name, and of H.
When the banker attempts to kill Kidder and the workers who had assisted in building the power plant, Kidder asks the Neoterics to throw up an impenetrable force field around his home.
Fictional history When the X-Men were introduced, they traveled in Professor Xavier's Lambert private jet and helicopter: advanced but fairly conventional aircraft with remote autopilots.
In the aftermath, the Hendropods are given sanctuary by humanity, with the two species now having to learn how to share the world together.
The utility was revealed at San Diego Comic-Con on July 24, 2008, as the Spore Comic Creator, which would use MashOn.com Archived 2008-12-10 at the Wayback Machine and its e-card software.
Overview The programme features significant British scientists who describe their big moment or discovery.
References External links 2001: A Space Odyssey - The Original Score (official listing) Archived 2007-02-11 at the Wayback Machine – Intrada Records Jerry Goldsmith's recording of Alex North's 2001 at AllMusic Eternal-recurrence-Alex North's 2001: A Space Odyssey CD cover Limited Edition
The Spore Bot Parts Pack has caused controversy within the Spore community, because of many problems with the download and its exclusive nature.
Reception and legacy The four reviewer panel of the Japanese magazine Famitsu gave L.O.L.: Lack of Love scores of 9, 6, 6, and 8 for a total of 29 out of 40.
The program was created and produced in Queensland; its capital city, Brisbane, inspires the show's setting.
Vargas was born at the epitome of peak physical skill, having superhuman levels of strength, speed, reflexes, agility, stamina, and durability.
Centuries after humankind terraforms and colonizes Mars, a brief but catastrophic interplanetary war takes place between Mars and Earth, costing both parties billions of lives.
The Blackbird, based on the Ultimate Marvel incarnation, appears in X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse.
Europa Sea Vent Herbivore: A giant, gray, shark-like animal that feeds on bacteria in schools with a suction cup-like mouth on an extended, Opabinia-like trunk.
Further examples include the ant-eating "pangaloon" (which resembles some later discovered alvarezsaurids) and the tree-climbing "nauger" with elongated fingers (which resembles Scansoriopteryx).
The musical scores for specific episodes of Bluey have been nominated for APRA Screen Music Awards, credited to Joff Bush as the composer.
It entered early access for Windows, OS X, and Linux-based systems in September 2016 after a successful Kickstarter crowd-funding campaign and was released in September 2017.
See also Collaborative fiction Eclipse Phase Transhuman Space Hannu Rajaniemi's Jean le Flambeur novel trilogy: The Quantum Thief, The Fractal Prince and The Causal Angel References External links Official website
The DVD version also came with holiday specials Shrek the Halls, Merry Madagascar, Kung Fu Panda Holiday and Gift of the Night Fury.
A new patch was released on 10 March 2006 bringing the version up to 1.42 and adding difficulty settings ranging from 1 to 10.
It is only in the buoyancy of water, where gravity is counteracted, that the Pteropede can shed its skin and increase in size.
They see that he is fearful of being a failure in his job and save him from being embarrassed in school.
The first thing it does is convince Wing, who has recently lost his powers to Ord's cure, to kill himself.
He and I have something in common: we both took out of the public library the same science fiction book when we were boys of about 15 or 16, which was Stapledon's Last and First Men.
Destabilized, the time machine is drawn towards a "chrono-crystal aleph" (from Jorge Luis Borges's "The Aleph") and the riders all see visions from their pasts and futures.
Lineup - Various pentominoes composed of sports balls must be placed on the playing field to form a continuous row from one end to the other.
Power transmission to driven wheels In the case of a driven wheel, a torque must be applied to generate the locomotive force.
Human Planet was originally screened in the UK on BBC One each Thursday at 8pm over eight weeks, starting from 13 January 2011.
Goodman tells her that the reproductive glands on the piranha they obtained were not mature; the piranhas that they have killed were merely juveniles.
Each species has a drop-down menu, which displays all the more advanced creatures that this particular species can evolve into.
Monster Seed (モンスターシード, Monsutā Shīdo) is a role-playing video game released for the PlayStation, developed by NK System and published by Sunsoft.
Close-ups of wild clownfish would have disturbed their natural behaviour, so captive animals were filmed in an aquarium at a Welsh university.
When it does return home, Wells follows him in order to protect the future (which he imagines to be a utopia) from the Ripper.
Pseudo-panspermia, in which molecules are formed and transported through space is, however, well-supported.
The sequel Tales From the Bully Pulpit vol 2: Legend of the Black Maria has no confirmed print date, but Benito Cereno has confirmed both its title and eventual existence.
In 2018, the company partnered with NASA to implement CASE into analogs, places where volunteers simulate life in outer planets.
Reception Computer Gaming World in 1993 praised SimLife, stating that "By neatly bridging the gap between entertainment and education, SL brings the engrossing science of genetics within reach of any interested person".
At Tor.com, Jason Shiga found it to be a "tour de force followup" to Flatland, and found the appendix to be the "most impressive section" of the book.
