The track peaked at number 8 on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 2 on the Canadian 100 Hit Tracks chart.
Hooked on Classics 3 (Journey Through the Classics) is the third album in the Hooked on Classics series, performed by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra under the direction of Louis Clark.
The video, filmed in Cleveland's Phantasy Theater, was directed by David Greathouse whose work included music videos for the band, Mushroomhead.
David then performed with different UK opera companies, one of which was the Glyndebourne Festival Opera for their Summer Festival and touring company.
His appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show during her Holiday Music Extravaganza, where he sang "What Child Is This", with Mary J.
Evancho performed nearly the same songs as those on the Dream With Me CD for her first solo concert televised special, which first aired in June 2011 on PBS stations ("The Prayer" was omitted, but "Dark Waltz" and "Mi Mancherai" were added).
Career On November 8, 2019, Super Vocal released their first single, Mandarin version of the song "Into the Unknown" (未知的真相), title track of the Disney animation Frozen II.
In September 2017, Potts won the 320th episode of the South-Korean television music competition Immortal Songs: Singing the Legend, in a duet with Bae Da-hae.
A few days before his "Arnau" Concert of 29 June 2019, in Astana, Kazakhstan, there were explosions near the Kazakhstan city of Arys that caused casualties.
Professional singing career In 1999, Garðar won the principal role of Raoul, Vicomte de Chagny, in The Phantom of the Opera at Her Majesty's Theatre in London's West End.
In the early years of her performing career, MacGregor was a prolific composer for the theatre (including work for Cheek by Jowl, and Oxford Stage Company's production of Hamlet at Elsinore Castle and the Edinburgh Festival).
Since leaving the group she has toured Australia, Dubai and New Zealand as a soloist with The Morriston Orpheus Male voice choir.
On 20 September 2006 it was announced on the Amici Forever website that Jo Appleby would be leaving the group to pursue a career as a solo artist.
Her performance with the Auckland Youth Orchestra of Handle's Lascia Chi’o pianga was recognized by the For Those Who Love Opera Facebook page, which is followed by more than 280,000 people, with For Those Who Love Opera sharing her work.
Chris Brubeck was a "formidable songwriter", a first class exponent of the trombone and the bass and a pianist whose skill at the keyboard was widely underestimated.
In September 2008 Osokins joined the Royal Academy of Music, studying under the guidance of Hamish Milne.
On 6 January, his producer and composer Igor Krutoy claimed in a comment on his own Instagram account that Dimash's account had been put offline following the events.
At the England versus Scotland Six Nations Rugby Match at Twickenham on 21 March 2009, Ansell sang "God Save the Queen" at Twickenham.
The second, released by Telarc in 1996, is a 58-minute CD performed by the same artists and von Stade's elder daughter, Jenny Elkus.
As a child, Shahoian performed with the Oakland Symphony under the direction of the late Calvin Simmons.
She plans to release a classical-fusion album with hip-hop/trap influences in 2020, entitled Key of Black Minor, to be released alongside a documentary of her life.
...They wouldn't be a runaway...and just lay a real beat behind it an' the people would began to really like it.
Release Bloodlines was released and distributed by Midnight Syndicate's own label, Entity Productions, debuting at #12 on Billboard's Classical Crossover charts.
In late January 1942, Durbin and Universal settled their differences, with the studio conceding to Durbin the approval of her directors, stories, and songs.
It was released in 1988 and serves as the second and final album by Mercury to be recorded outside of Queen.
Two examples of this are Lesley Garrett's excursions into musical comedy and José Carreras's recording West Side Story, as well as Teresa Stratas' recording Showboat.
The featured single on the album is Silent Night, a collaboration with David Foster, who arranged the song, and accompanied the trio on piano, and featured vocals by Gloria Estefan.
Track listing Note: Sian Edwards conducted the Orchestra and Chorus of Welsh National Opera, with Meinir Huelyn on harp.
Loussier composed film scores and a number of classical pieces, including a Mass, a ballet, and violin concertos.
In 2006, a collection of her solo and choral work with Anúna, Celtic Dreams, was released on Valley Entertainment Records.
It was the 29th biggest-selling album of 2008 in the UK and made Rhydian the most successful male solo artist of that year.
Born in Much Wenlock, Shropshire, England, she trained at Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London.
Her first internationally released album, Pure, reached number one on the UK classical charts in 2003 and has sold more than two million copies worldwide, making it one of the fastest selling albums in her country's history.
On August 10, 2010, Evancho performed on a special YouTube quarter-final edition of the fifth season of America's Got Talent.
It was released by Really Useful Records and Polydor Records on LP (with a gatefold cover), cassette and CD.
In some contexts, the term "crossover" can have negative connotations associated with cultural appropriation, implying the dilution of a music's distinctive qualities to appeal to mass tastes.
Rigoletto, live from Mantua, 2010 RAI film version of Rigoletto, performed live on location in Mantua, Italy and broadcast simultaneously in 148 countries.
Release history – 14 March 2008 – 17 March 2008 – 25 March 2008 – 24 November 2008 (2 CD edition) References External links Mike Oldfield Discography – Music of the Spheres at Tubular.net
5 on the Billboard Classical Crossover Albums chart and was featured on the Tamron Hall Show where he shared in depth about his adoption story.
When writing, we wanted to create pieces that incorporated the multiple levels of the vampyre: the hunger, the reflection, the predators, the prey, the passion, and the fury.
Later, in the 1980s, Franchi continued to perform at a number of popular venues in the United States.
Soon after, Rushdie won a place with the Royal Choral Society with whom she has performed regularly, including her second performance of 2011 at the Royal Albert Hall, Carmina Burana.
The video marked the first time Midnight Syndicate performed live together on stage and featured cameos Mushroomhead band members Jeff Hatrix and "Schmotz".
She specialized in opera arias, art song, and semi-classical songs, which is today known as classical crossover.
The record features different versions of songs included in the chart-topping album Colours in the Dark, plus a studio version of "Into the Sun", previously only available as a live track (originally on Act I).
Aacayipsin sold two and a half million copies and earned Tarkan the "Best Male Pop Music Artist" award at the Turkey Music Awards.
Jonathan Antoine (born 13 January 1995) and Charlotte Jaconelli (born 24 August 1995), known collectively as Jonathan and Charlotte, were an English classical crossover duo from Essex.
One direction; nice, simple, sitting in a sunny field, female-voiced acoustic folk, the other towards a rarer thing, this fusion of English medieval progressive classical, chamber orchestral music, via Vaughan Williams, Cardiacs, Vernon Elliott, Henry Cow.
See also Tuscan Skies (Cieli di Toscana) References External links Cieli Di Toscana on Billboard.com Cieli Di Toscana on Ultratop.com
She took singing classes with a variety of different teachers as well as piano, dance, and acting classes.
Rahman) – 5:26 "Moroccan Roll" (Jon Cohen, Kad Achouri & Vanessa-Mae) – 3:08 "Handel's Minuet" (George Friederic Handel) – 3:50 Chart performance == References ==
Milton Brown and His Brownies, Bob Wills and His Texas Playboys, Spade Cooley and His Buckle-Busters, Adolph Hofner and His San Antonians, Tex Williams and His String Band, Grady Martin and His Winging Strings, and Billy Gray and His Western Okies all had their own albums.
Erich Kunzel had presented collectors with the most complete edition of The Sound of Music that had ever appeared on the shelves of a record shop.
In the fall of 1968, Corea began recording and touring with Miles Davis, appearing on the widely praised Davis studio albums Filles de Kilimanjaro, In a Silent Way, Bitches Brew, and On the Corner.
This album, being Bocelli's fifth pop release, peaked at number 1 on the Dutch Albums Top 100, stayed on that chart for 33 weeks, and ended up being certified Gold.
In June 2017, Safina performed "'O sole mio" with Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli at the Peoples' Friendship Palace in Tashkent, Uzbekistan.
It was released on 23 November 2009 by Syco Music in the United Kingdom, and by Columbia Records in the United States one day later.
In Germany, the album was certified 4× Platinum for shipping two million units, making it one of the best-selling albums ever in the country.
He attended the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York, and graduated with a bachelor's degree in performance.
His duet with Celine Dion, "The Prayer," originally appeared as a solo version (for Celine Dion) in the 1998 animated film Quest for Camelot, and won the Golden Globe for Best Original Song as well as being nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song.
Robin Leach wrote: "12-year-old superstar singer Jackie [Evancho] stole the night with her "Bridge over Troubled Water" sung barefoot in the water of the giant stage.
Jon Christos (born John Christodoulou 23 March 1976, Salford, England) is an English singer, local radio presenter.
Later that year around Christmas, she performed all over New York City, and with the Latshaw Pops Orchestra at The Palace Theatre in Greensburg, Pennsylvania.
Track listing "Pie Jesu" "My Lagan Love" "In Trutina" "Panis Angelicus" "Amazing Grace" "Just Wave Hello" "La Pastorella" "She Moved Through the Fair" "Ave Maria" "Dream a Dream (Feat.
Designed to be listened to first and segued into Mansion in the Mist, Bloodlines expands upon the backstory of the Haverghast family and the events that transpired before the story in The 13th Hour begins.
Deutsche Grammophon's engineering was one of the album's few weak points, probably because of the inherent difficulty of recording singers moving around on a stage.
Marsh graduated with a First-class Honours degree from Birmingham University and was awarded the Barber Scholarship to study Opera at the Royal College of Music.
She wrote the English lyrics for the song "Your Love", music by Igor Krutoy and interpreted by Dimash Qudaibergen.
Having favoured the approach and results on Sky's first two albums, in 2024 he would reflect on a certain dissatisfaction with the group's subsequent direction and musical development.
Concerts In 2017 they had concerts in several cities in Latvia (Riga, Jelgava, Rezekne, Ventspils, Liepaja, Cesis) to promote their album “Ludwig van Rammstein”.
She is the first female artist to win two consecutive Classical BRIT Awards: her second album, Second Nature, reached number 16 in the UK Albums Chart, and was Album of the Year in the 2005 BRIT Awards.
The 13th Hour is the sixth studio album by Midnight Syndicate, released June 7, 2005, by Entity Productions.
It's a magical musical journey." The trio appeared as "The Christmas Tenors" to wrap up the Open Air Concert Series put on by Varela's Victory Productions at The Villages Polo Fields.
Emma Shapplin (born Crystêle Madeleine Joliton, 19 May 1974) is a French soprano singer, composer and visual artist known for her fusion of operatic singing with electronic and pop music influences.
The band further expanded in 2016 with the addition of drummer Artūrs Jermaks and welcomed double bass player Alise Broka in 2020.
Thapa worked with the National Chamber Choir in Dublin before moving back to London, and was in the Scottish Opera's production of Kátya Kabanová.
It includes songs from the musicals The Phantom of the Opera, Tell Me on a Sunday, Evita, Cats, Jesus Christ Superstar, Starlight Express and Requiem.
Its Manhattan premiere, starring Plácido Domingo and Brightman, was filmed by the BBC and PBS for later broadcast.
In December, Forte joined Gunn, Isabel Leonard and John Fogerty in performance at the MLB Prostate Cancer Foundation 2015 New York Dinner in New York City.
She learned from a young age to play the cello and the piano and at first trained to be a concert cellist.
Under the private tutoring of Swedish tenor Gösta Winbergh of the Royal Swedish Opera and French tenor Christian Papis, Bühler enriched his classical repertoire.
2021 2020 Summer Olympics Gymnastics - Two works performed, Winter Symphony performed by Vladislava Urazova and her arrangement of Tchaikovsky's Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy by Lee Yun-seo 2021 ISU World Team Trophy in Figure Skating 'The Fire Within' performed by Rika Kihira.
He has told the media that he regards the institution of marriage as outdated, stating he would only get married for the benefit of any children he might have.
Schoenberg's contribution was restored to its first position and a new narration track was dubbed circa December 1950.
Her voice coach for 2 years while studying in Vienna in 2007 was Claudia Visca, an American soprano.
He also interpreted the role of Percy in Donizetti's Anne Boleyn at Pittsburgh Opera with John Mauceri during 2000/2001.
When asked if Bell had any objections to Presley recording his own version, Bell gave Colonel Tom Parker, Presley's manager, a copy of his 1955 Teen Records' recording, hoping that if Presley recorded it, "he might reap some benefit when his own version was released on an album".
The band gained a huge popularity in Japan, were they released a series of largely instrumental albums such as Da Makani (1988) exclusively for the Japanese market.
Christos also accompanied Davis in June 2007 at James Bond theme concerts with the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic, and the next month at Leeds Castle in Kent.
She was initially selected, but was let go soon afterwards owing to their feeling that, at age twenty, she was too old.
In addition to classical music in an American vernacular, the quartet occasionally breaks out on more traditional instrumental bluegrass tunes.
Chart performance On 24 August 2014, Stars debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart, ending Ed Sheeran's eight-week run at number one with his album x.
Discography Singles "Silent Night" (2020) Albums Christmas Serenade (Nov, 2020) as EP, Full release in 2021 Romantic Serenade (Feb, 2021) as EP See also Fernando Varela Craig Irvin Devin Eatmon References External links Official website
The label combines new recordings with re-releases of older recordings which MacGregor was able to reclaim after Collins Classics ceased trading.
The album included a re-make of the Weasels' cut "Something Wicked" from Uranus or Bust, along with eleven new tracks composed by Weäsell and Graf.
Death Vincenzo La Scola died at the age of 53 on 15 April 2011 in Mersin, Turkey due to a heart attack.
As One, one of the tracks in her album, Sanctuary is the theme song for NHK's program, Autumn's 3 Biggest Open Groove 2006.
He used his gifts to inspire and lift others and will be greatly missed." A complete obituary ran in the Southeast Missourian on November 10, 2018 and an obituary ran in the St.
Shilkret's son Arthur, the publisher for the concerto did not pursue further exploitation of the concerto, nor did his wife Barbara Shilkret, who became publisher upon Arthur's death in 1982.
Rhydian is the self-titled debut studio album by Welsh singer Rhydian, the runner-up on the fourth series of The X Factor.
In 2007, Fabri completed her bachelor's degree in psychology (B.Psy Hons.) from the University of Malta and also gained various diplomas in child psychology.
Current members Cameron Barclay Nicholas Matters Michael Edwards (MD) Andrew Waldin Thomas Weaver Ben Cody-Osborne Shaun Kohlman Ben Clark Jack Jordan Sam Ward Band Benjamin Kiehne (Piano) Trent Bryson-Dean (Drums) Note: The roster of members does change – the above list is current as at April 2023.
On 3 March, Boe performed in 'The End of the Show Show' on Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway alongside Michael Ball.
The Marcy Playground album drew little notice until a radio station in San Diego began playing "Sex and Candy" and at the same time the song was chosen by filmmaker Morgan J.
Some of his performances in the Spanish operetta include La Gran Vía (The Great Way), La revoltosa (The Rebellious), in which he played Felipe, and La verbena de la Paloma (The Fair of the Virgin of la Paloma), in which he played Julián.
Track listing "The Impossible Dream" "To Where You Are" "What If (duet with Idina Menzel)" "The Prayer" "Bridge Over Troubled Water" "There Will Be a Time" "Somewhere" "Not a Dry Eye in the House" "I Believe" "I'm Coming Home Again" "Who Wants to Live Forever" Charts == References ==
They say her voice is "one that heals," which is an accurate description considering her soothing vocals and extensive range.
After the September 11 attacks in 2001, when she was 15, Church was criticised for the remarks attributed to her by the New York Post in which she allegedly criticised "the hero status afforded to New York firefighters" in their aftermath.
In 2010 the band self-released their debut live DVD "Sterling EQ Live in Concert", which won them the SAMA Award in 2011.
Songwriting March 20, 2020, China's first male bel canto quartet, Super Vocal, performed "Qui con me (Ni De Se Cai)" ("Your Colors") on the Hunan Satellite TV singing competition Singer 2020, in both Italian and Chinese lyrics.
His Mass, Lumières: Messe Baroque du 21e Siècle (Lights: A Baroque Mass of the 21st Century), has been compared to Leonard Bernstein's Mass.
Her entry's title, "Marte", and a preview of the song were released to the public on 20 September 2019.
Members As of February 2007, the band consisted of: Lucy van Gasse (England) (soprano), born in Nailsea, Somerset.
During this period Marín lived in the Netherlands in Eindhoven, but moved back to Spain when he was twelve.
Discography Studio albums Compilation albums Awards Mo Awards The Australian Entertainment Mo Awards (commonly known informally as the Mo Awards), were annual Australian entertainment industry awards.
The "Weekly Feature Concert—New Recordings” program of Los Angeles radio station KFAC played the recording of the Genesis Suite on 7 February 1947.
Following this a partnership was established with Avex Entertainment to promote her album Key of Sea in Japan Commencing June 19, 2019, Thomas embarked on a well-received summer concert tour of the western United States.
The second issue, Classical Speed 2, was released on August 18, 2004 with tracks including "Jupiter" as the intro, and 19 other tracks, including technically non-classical compositions such as "Jazz Suite Waltz", "Amazing Grace", and "Stars and Stripes Forever".
She then competed on season 16 of America's Got Talent when she was 9, and made it to the finals with the “golden buzzer”.
References External links Holly Holyoake official site Official MySpace profile Holly Holyoake at BBC Wales Holly Holyoake International (fan site)
Seemingly, the behaviour was to be explained with a sort of revenge for the room carpeting, to which the trio was allergic.
Recently she had some performances in Mexico City and Pachuca de Soto with the Mexican Crossover tenor Oscar Aguilar.
The Herald Angels Sing"), the album contains various famous arias and hymns ("Panis angelicus", "Ave Maria (Vavilov)").
In 1996, Walt Disney Studios hired Fabian as the voice of the character of Esmeralda in the Canadian French version of the animated feature The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
Almost all the members of Fairport Convention have toured the folk club circuit solo or in smaller units and the line up at Cropredy includes as many acoustic acts as electric.
He also began to build his own instruments, one of which, a mbira, was later employed by Robert Fripp.
The period orchestrations which he had championed "[did not] miss a trick to underline the syncopation in Rodgers's writing".
His progress in the field led him to move to Amsterdam, where he studied voice at Sweelinck Conservatorium with Udo Reinemann, a well-known German baritone.
"Williamson's Garage" "Daisy's Dead" "Frankfurt, I'm Sorry" "Christmas Eve" (traditional) "Resurrection" "The Miller's Daughter" (Kelly) "Bare Branches" "Strange Bedfellows" "Kiss and Tell" "Milk, Tea and Oranges" "Let the Ass Bray" == References ==
The album contains eight unreleased songs, written by Diane Warren, Luis Bacalov and Latin Grammy winner Edgar Cortazar among others, and four covers.
Later Puno graduated from the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts and went on to direct the film "Valle de Lágrimas" in 2006.
Komsky lived in Danville, California, and went to Monte Vista High School where he joined the chamber choir.
In 2006, Louwerse became the youngest ever winner of the Dame Joan Sutherland Opera Award and went on to record a debut EP entitled She Walks in Beauty.
I Will Be With You is a translation of the African version "Jy Vat My Hoër" and "Follow Your Heart" is also translated.
In an interview with Digital Spy, the band explained that the nature of being a musical theatre act means they don't consider their new album a collection of cover versions.
Initially, the band could not afford to pay Watts, who had been earning a regular salary from his gigs.
Songs such as "Sex Kills", "Sunny Sunday", "Borderline" and "The Magdalene Laundries" mixed social commentary and guitar-focused melodies for "a startling comeback".
In April and May 2011, Ansell played the role of the Prince/Beast in a national tour of Beauty and the Beast..
The music label Decca announced the official formation of the first Chinese male bel canto group named "Super Vocal” at the Decca 90 Anniversary Event.
Television appearances 1980 The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson (Episode 2405) 1980 The Mike Douglas Show 1980 Just Kidding 1981 That's Incredible 1983 The John Davidson Show Discography Recognition == References ==
On December 16, 2007, Tesolin sang with The Canadian Tenors at their Christmas Concert at the Oakville Centre for the Performing Arts.
La Voce is the ninth album by British tenor Russell Watson and his first resumption of a largely classical repertoire since overcoming brain cancer.
Reception Belgium's Side Line Magazine praised how the soundscape elements took the album further than typical horror film scores.
In this concert she sang ten songs never recorded or performed by her before, including "Senza Catene" (the Italian version of "Unchained Melody"), "Nelle Tue Mani" ("Now We Are Free", from the movie "Gladiator") and others.
The Pointer Sisters' second album, the 1974 release That's a Plenty, continued in the jazz and be-bop style of its predecessor but provided one exception that caused a great deal of interest: "Fairytale", written by Anita and Bonnie, was a country song that reached No.
On November 6, 2011, Tesolin's self-titled 3-track EP featuring "Dolce", "The Key", and "Now That I Know" was released.
Joe Satriani collaboration Joe Satriani played lead guitar on the tracks "Conflicted" and "Forgive Me".
While at university she began taking singing lessons and very quickly developed her outstanding voice.
In December 2012, Boe was featured as a guest artist for the holiday concert series of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, Orchestra at Temple Square and Bells on Temple Square.
In 2010, at the age of ten, she gained wide notice with her 2nd-place finish in the fifth season of America's Got Talent.
Classical crossover Classical crossover broadly encompasses both classical music that has become popularized and a wide variety of popular music forms performed in a classical manner or by classical artists.
Les Stentors are a 4-member vocal super group made up of operatic voices from all regions of France.
On 7 January 2017, Brightman presided over the naming ceremony as godmother of the Richard Branson's new 600-guest ship MV Seabourn Encore, the first of two new all-suite vessels for the company.
The Suite Background Shilkret conceived of the Genesis project while traveling with his friend Rex Schepp, perhaps around 1943.
Neal Evans Boyd (November 18, 1975 – June 10, 2018) was an American singer who developed an interest in opera after listening to the performances of the Three Tenors.
Being neither one thing nor the other, however, its audience was bound to be divided and it may be regarded as an experiment belonging to its time.
Nathan Smith of the Houston Press stated "Sex and Candy" was perfect crossover music, as its edgy, sexual lyrics were suitable for rock radio, while it was still "pussy enough for adult contemporary." Several media outlets compared "Sex and Candy" to the work of Nirvana with Jonah Bayer of The A.V.
In February 2007 Bawden co-wrote two tracks and recorded material with producer and songwriter, Audius Mtawarira (Delta Goodrem, Guy Sebastian, Paulini).
Discography White on Blue (2004) Secret Love (2011) Carousel (2019) Innocent Days (2023) References External links Crossfade discography at Discogs Crossfade at AllMusic
She subsequently signed a contract with Motown and this led to a brief, moderately successful, solo career.
Despite their contributions, folk metal remained little known with few representatives during the 1990s.
"Kaze No Toorimichi" was originally recorded by Joe Hisaishi, featuring the Suginami Children's Choir for the soundtrack to the 1988 film My Neighbor Totoro.
This album features duets with Barbra Streisand and Britain's Got Talent runner-up Susan Boyle, as well as twelve solo tracks.
He went on in 1944 to perform at the Teatro Lírico Cubano (Lyric Theater of Cuba), singing in La Plaza de la Catedral (The Cathedral Square), a zarzuela by Lecuona.
The album was recorded in June 2010 with the Roma Sinfonietta in the historic studio Forum Music Village, produced by Mike Hedges and was released on 22 November 2010 on Epic Records, his first release on this label.
After graduating from Sheffield University with a degree in music, she was offered a place to train with Steven Maughan at the Amsterdam Opera House and later, with Jesús León in London.
Also during the second part of the year, he performed in Croatia, Serbia, Italy, the US, Dubai, Switzerland and finally in Scandinavia.
Isobel Cooper (born 24 January 1975), known professionally as Izzy, is an English operatic pop soprano singer.
Together peaked at number 5 on the UK Albums Chart, which was followed by the duo releasing the album in the US and Canada on 30 October 2012.
Members Sabino Gaita was born on April 24, 1977, in Milan, Italy, where he studied music at the local conservatory.
In 2014, on the 10th anniversary of the publication of their first album, the group sold over 28 million albums worldwide, achieving more than 50 number one sales and receiving 160 gold records and platinum in over 33 countries.
Julian Kershaw) "Flight of the Bumblebee" (Rimsky-Korsakov) "Bohemian Rhapsody" (Freddie Mercury / Tolga Kashif) "The Gypsy Maid" (Giuseppe Verdi / arr.
With set design inspired by the album's cover art, the show featured music from the album, various cirque-type specialty acts, and pyrotechnics.
When the men faced the judges, Mel B asked them to explain the personnel change, and said it was like a second audition.
Their most popular release is their cover of the Game of Thrones theme, which has over 27 million views on YouTube.
In a 2011 interview with FEARnet, composer, Edward Douglas said: We've definitely put together something different for us (Midnight Syndicate), but we still maintain our identity.
After Corea's complaint against this policy before the administrative court was unsuccessful in 1996, members of the United States Congress, in a letter to the German government, denounced the ban as a violation of Corea's human rights.
Early life Paonessa began to take voice lessons at the young age of 10 and performed her first official recital at the age of 15.
She was dubbed "Australia's greatest operatic discovery." In the Grand Final, Bawden performed Léo Delibes' "Flower Duet" (Yanni's Aria version) which she translated to English from its French lyrics, after a judge requested that she sing in English.
During that time, Belle du Berry and David Lewis continued to work together, producing the album Quizz (2009) and performing together on stage.
Eurovision Song Contest 2011 On 27 January 2011, it was announced by the French broadcaster France Télévisions that Vassili would be the French entry at the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 to be held in Düsseldorf, Germany.
After the two groups performed at the National Concert Hall, Dublin, in April 2012, they recorded the album later in the year.
He has taught as a freelancer at the Royal Academy of Music and at the Rhythmic Conservatory in Copenhagen.
Background and release Gates of Delirium was written, produced, and mixed by Edward Douglas and Gavin Goszka.
2 on the Catalog Albums Chart, second only to Michael Bublé's 2011 Christmas album, on its second week of the season.
Craig Harvey of Movement Magazine compared the minimalistic piano lines on certain tracks to early John Carpenter scores.
Teenage music career In 2015, at thirteen years old, Lukyanets gained recognition in wider Europe when she performed a blind audition for The Voice Kids, the children's edition of The Voice of Germany, bringing one of the hosts to tears with her performance.
She was the winner of the 2013 Operalia competition and has featured in a number of productions staged at the Mariinsky Theatre, St.
Highlights of his career in 2004 and 2005 included his first appearances with English Touring Opera singing Ferrando in Così fan tutte, and at the Rossini in Wildbad Festival singing Conte Alberto in L'occasione fa il ladro.
Pzazz completed their national tour of Ireland, supporting The Celtic Tenors in late December 2005/January 2006.
On 11 July they performed at the 'Les Tombees de la Nuit' Festival in the Opera House in Rennes, Brittany.
For example, Renowned for Sound gave a somewhat negative review that awarded the album two and a half stars out of five.
However, according to the prosecutor, the case against Grachev was closed due to his active repentance.
They ended 2009 with their first Christmas special intimate show, Celebrate Christmas with Il Divo, which included a traditional repertoire of favourite festive songs with an orchestra and special guests in the United Kingdom, the United States, and Canada.
However, the album received little commercial notice, and Shocked parted ways with the label following an acrimonious lawsuit.
After Barcelona was selected to host the 1992 Summer Olympics, Mercury was approached to write a song as a theme for the forthcoming games.
On 27 February 2012, Church accepted £600,000 in damages and costs in settlement of a lawsuit arising out of the News International phone hacking scandal.
They received very good reviews both for the album and the concert in magazines such as The Wire, Rolling Stone among others.
Open Heart Symphony is a 1996 album by Spirit of the West, in collaboration with the Vancouver Symphony Orchestra.
He subsequently attended the California Institute of the Arts to study African and Indian music full-time.
A group of graduate students in Boulder, Colorado, established an International Bacon Day celebration.
Goose confit is associated with the Béarn and Basque regions with their classic specialties of cassoulet and garbure, hearty and earthy dishes of confit and beans.
Before switching to vegetable oil with beef flavoring in 1990, McDonald's cooked its French fries in a mixture of 93% beef tallow and 7% cottonseed oil.
Baconnaise is a bacon-flavored, mayonnaise-based food spread that is ovo vegetarian and kosher certified.
Bacon bits are made from small, crumbled pieces of bacon; in commercial plants they are cooked in continuous microwave ovens.
Dry-cured Traditional dry cure hams may use only salt as the curative agent, although this is comparatively rare.
It is a particular speciality of delis serving Montreal-style smoked meat, where slices of the fatty cut are served in sandwiches on rye bread with mustard, sometimes in combination with other, leaner cuts.
Uses Since this piece generally consists of much skin, tendons and ligaments, it requires long cooking through stewing or braising to be made palatable.
Salumi (sg.: salume, pronounced [saˈluːme]) are Italian meat products typical of an antipasto, predominantly made from pork and cured.
Meats and other ingredients A variety of fresh meats may be used for making sausage, the most common are from beef, pork, lamb, chicken, turkey, and game.
International usage United States and territories Domestically, Spam's chief advantages were affordability, accessibility, and extended shelf life.
In a 1665 letter to the Director of New Netherland from the Island of Curaçao there is a request to send greens: "I request most amicably that your honors be pleased to send me seed of every sort, such as cabbage, carrots, lettuce, parsley, etc.
However, due to the use of saltpeter in food being banned, the modern approach is using German pork knuckles.
Besides the domestic manually or motor operated grinders, there are also grinders for butchery (table- or shop-grinders for example) and for the food industry.
Soppressata di Calabria enjoys protected designation of origin (PDO) status; the one produced in Acri and Decollatura is especially renowned.
When used, the recommended amount is a ratio of 4 oz for each 100 lb (1 kg for each 400 kg) of meat or 0.25% of the total weight of the meat.
In the second, the body circulates from the doorstep of a neighbour, to a horse, to the house of a peasant, to a sack, and into the hands of thieves who have stolen some bacon.
Sheep/lamb and hog are available in all packaging types due to the high demand and long length of pieces; due to the shorter length and much lower demand for beef casings they are primarily only available loose or in net packs either salted or in brine.
Confit country is divided roughly into regions where one type of meat predominates the confit preparations.
The Honey Baked Ham Company is a food retailer which sells hams, turkey breasts, and other pre-cooked entrées, side dishes, and desserts.
In southern parts of Italy such as Sicily, where fish are a more plentiful element of cuisine, involtini can sometimes be made with fish such as swordfish.
In 2012, a major change was made from the "all you can eat" bacon, which was included in the ticket price from years earlier, to a pay as you eat price structure.
Description For the price of an admission ticket, each attendee has been entitled to a T-shirt, a choice of bacon samples, and a koozie (an insulation-wrapping for a canned beverage, like beer or soda pop).
The Spam Games also occur in Guam, where locals sample and honor the best original, homemade Spam recipes.
The earliest form of the meat grinder was hand-cranked and forced meat into a metal plate that had several small holes, resulting in long, thin strands of meat.
It has been labelled as smoked tea (熏茶), smoky souchong, tarry lapsang souchong and lapsang souchong crocodile.
Chicago-based IRI reported sales of charcuterie types of packaged lunch meats reached $561 million in 2019, up 8.1% from the previous year.
Younger motsetta is described to be more fresh and tender, with a higher degree of maturation the cold cut becomes harder and more robust in flavour, making the meat darker in colour as well.
There is a "clamoring" for the bacon happy hour at Bad Decisions bar in Fells Point which includes a menu that is completely redone with bacon dishes and big bowls of bacon served on the bar (using up to 30 pounds of bacon in a two-hour period).
Composition It is generally recommended to diversify the items on a charcuterie board in terms of type (e.g.
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
While deep frying typically takes place at temperatures of 160–230 °C (325–450 °F), confit preparations are done at a much lower temperature, such as an oil temperature of around 90 °C (200 °F), or sometimes even cooler.
Tour After having worked at the Festival, some of its entertainers formed the Blue Ribbon Bacon Tour.
1989 Leuconostoc falkenbergense Wu and Gu 2021 Leuconostoc fallax Martinez-Murcia and Collins 1992 "Leuconostoc garlicum" Kim et al.
They are served with the main meal menu in view either in hot, room temperature or cold forms; when served hot they are brought out after all the guests arrive so that everyone gets to taste the dishes.
Techniques The temperature of the environment affects how quickly the piece must be completed to avoid the effects of melting; if the sculpting does not take place in a cold environment, then the sculptor must work quickly to finish the piece.
Mexico In Mexico, most cecina is of two kinds: sheets of marinated beef, and a pork cut that is sliced or butterflied thin and coated with chili pepper (this type is called cecina enchilada or carne enchilada).
Health concerns Studies have consistently found the consumption of processed meat to be linked to increased mortality, and to an increased risk of developing a number of serious health conditions including cancer, cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.
When probiotic lactobacilli are administered along with the treatment as an adjuvant, its efficacy is substantially increased and side effects may be lessened.
It is prepared using the Tongcheng pig and has been described as "the most prized ham in all of China".
According to William Roscoe Estep, Zwingli already held Reformation-oriented convictions for some time before the incident.
The differences between Tyrolean speck and bacon include different time lengths of smoking, the technique of curing it, and the fact that Tyrolean speck cures for a longer period of time than bacon does.
"Confit country" is the area of Occitan France, where goose fat is used for cooking, as opposed to olive oil, which is used in Provence, where olives were plentiful and thus cheap.
Figs and dates may be transformed into different products that can either be eaten as they are, used in recipes, or rehydrated.
Gervais is pelted with hot coals by cooks, assaulted by the crowd of servants at the feast, and dragged outside and thrown in a ditch with a dead dog, which parallels the medieval practice of hanging with dogs.
See also Media related to Pitina at Wikimedia Commons List of dried foods List of smoked foods == References ==
After being marinated the meat is left to rest in a cool place for a varying amount of time: in the case of homemade motsetta, the meat is flavoured for up to 20 days.
Properties The quality of salami is dependent on the quality of the raw materials and the level of technology used in its production.
It served Northern Italian inspired cuisine, focusing primarily on charcuterie, pizza, and seafood and emphasizing dishes that are less well known.
In Maharashtra, especially in the northern Khandesh region, vangyache bharit (वांग्याचें भरीत) as they call it is served in social gatherings including wedding ceremonies.
Sour and spicy sauces are served on the side, especially a Hmong sauce made with Thai chilies called "pepper dip".
The exact conditions depend on which nitrogen oxides are used, and what the oxidant is, as the conditions need to be carefully controlled to avoid over oxidation of the nitrogen atom.
Lactobacilli characteristically cause existing carious lesions to progress, especially those in coronal caries.
The name Leuconostoc comes from Greek adjective leukos meaning clear; and the word nostoc gelatinous colonies, Leuconostoc - colorless nostoc.
A recipe for mumbar (stuffed intenstine) appears in the 19th century Ottoman cookbook Melceü't-Tabbâhîn.
The meal will usually be rounded out with various pickles (such as mango, lime, and lemon) as well as raita, a palate-cooling yogurt dish/condiment (similar to Greek tzatziki) with many forms, including mint, mango or cucumber preparations.
This term encompasses dishes like braciole (a roulade consisting of beef, pork or chicken usually filled with Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs and eggs) and saltimbocca.
While charcuterie boards are common appetizers in restaurants today, they continue to find popularity in private gatherings like house and dinner parties due to their ease of preparation.
Manufacturers developed powered machines as electricity became more accessible, and modern electric meat grinders can process several pounds of meat easily and uniformly.
When using cure, it is very important to never exceed the recommended amount of 2.5 grams of Prague powder #1 in 1 kilogram of meat (4 ounces/100 pounds).
Meat confit Confit of goose (confit d'oie) or duck (confit de canard) is usually prepared from the legs of the bird.
A garde manger (French: [gaʁd mɑ̃ʒe]) is a cool, well-ventilated area where savory cold dishes (such as salads, hors d'œuvres, appetizers, canapés, pâtés, and terrines) are prepared and other foods are stored under refrigeration.
Varieties Soppressata di Basilicata is mainly produced in Rivello, Cancellara, Vaglio, and Lagonegro.
Huldrych Zwingli, who was present during the event, later defended the act by arguing that fasting should be a matter of personal choice, as the Bible does not mandate abstaining from certain foods during Lent.
The recipe includes crumbled bacon strips, liquid rendered bacon fat, canola oil, egg yolks, and Dijon mustard with water and lemon juice.
Around the world Australia and New Zealand The most common form sold is middle bacon, which includes some of the streaky, fatty section of side bacon along with a portion of the loin of back bacon.
Mattha is similar to Chaas, which is also called chhanch or ghol, but spicier and is known as Mohi in Nepal.
Hurdle technology uses low doses of multiple food preservation techniques in order to ensure food is not only safe but is desirable visually and texturally.
Methods Ham is produced by curing raw pork by salting, also known as dry curing, or brining, also known as wet curing.
This sausage was introduced to Malaysia and Southern Thailand by Cham refugees who migrated from conflict-stricken Indochina during the 1970s.
Its manufacture varies depending on the skill and experience of the meat manufacturer rather than a process solely based on scientific and technological means of production.
Compared to traditional pork ham, turkey ham is typically lower in calories, total fat, and cholesterol, making it a popular choice for those seeking lower-fat or pork-free alternatives.
See also Erk al sous Kharoub Qamar Al Deen Tamr Hindi Levantine cuisine References External links Media related to Jallab at Wikimedia Commons
Mattha (Bhojpuri: 𑂧𑂰𑂘𑂰, romanized: Māthā, Bengali: মাঠা, romanized: Māṭhā, Hindi: मट्ठा, romanized: Maṭṭhā) is a beverage that originates from the Indian subcontinent.
Hmong sausage is typically grilled at a low heat and served as large slices with steamed white rice or purple sticky rice (another signature Hmong dish), pan-fried with blanched cabbage, or with pho soup.
According to tradition, they are prepared in the dry season around December–March and consumed in greater quantities during the monsoon/wet season, when fish is scarce.
The main advantage of IC is its ease and the simultaneous analysis of all the anions present in the aqueous sample.
Types by method of application Cold smoking Cold smoking differs from hot smoking in that it does not cook anything; when cold smoking is finished, the food is still raw.
The sausage is often made at home; however it has become increasingly brought at markets and even supermarkets.
See also List of meat substitutes Vegetarian hot dogs Vegetarian sausage Meat-free sausage roll Food portal == References ==
Regulations In the European Union, the labelling of pancetta is regulated under the protected designation of origin (PDO) regime.
Pellicles of protein that form prior to smoking meat (including fish and poultry) allow smoke to better adhere to the surface of the meat during the smoking process.
Choris-Pão has the sausages chopped (sometimes with onions and a dash of curry) and placed inside a Poi or the local bun, a chewier form of the western Indian Pav, and is a popular fast food sold by vendors during religious fairs or in cafés.
While another theory suggests the name came from a Turkish Cypriot street vendor called "Şef Ali" (Chef Ali), who sold a kebab called "Şef Ali kebabı,"(Chef Ali's Kebab), which eventually became "Şeftali kebabı" and then Sheftalia.
The traditional means, referred to as Zheng Shan Xiao Zhong, is to entirely process the leaves within the smoke house, equivalent to a cold smoke, though most of the smoke flavouring is instilled during the final drying phase.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
National competition The national organization of butchers, Slavakto, organizes a competition to determine the best Zeeuws spek in the country.
Nitrite-containing processed meat is associated with increased risk of developing colorectal cancer.
The Goan sausage is therefore of Iberian origin and related to the Spanish Chorizo, both of which go through a process called pimenton.
Along with hardtack and corned beef, salt pork was a standard ration for many militaries and navies throughout the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, seeing usage in the American Civil War, War of 1812, and the Napoleonic Wars, among others.
Its origin has been placed in either Tijuana or Hermosillo, as the Sonoran hot dog where it was originally served in a bolillo instead of a hot dog bun.
In addition, implementation of many further processing steps by concentration, dilution, distillation, extraction, and use of food additives has led to the many hundreds of different products on the market worldwide.
Prior to the British East Indian Company's adoption of the terms black and green to categorize teas, the tea leaves coming from the Wuyi Mountains area were referred to as bohea, with souchong (小种) referring to a different grade.
Typically, a sausage is formed in a casing traditionally made from intestine, but sometimes from synthetic materials.
In some areas it is called studen' (студень) or studenets (Ukrainian: студенець, romanized: studenets), derived from a different root with a similar meaning.
Hard-boiled eggs, bacon, shrimp, and cheeses may be used as garnishes, but large amounts of animal-based foods would be more likely in a dinner salad.
Smith, in his 2006 book The Turkey: An American Story, notes that turkey products (including turkey bacon) contain, on average, twice as much sodium as the pork products that they replace.
Medication impurities There have been recalls for various medications due to the presence of nitrosamine impurities.
Since then, bacon-focused events and gatherings celebrating the food have been reported and bacon-related exploits have been featured in the media.
In the Mid-Atlantic States, in rural regions settled by the Pennsylvania Dutch, hocks are a commonly used ingredient for making a kind of meat loaf called scrapple.
The Portland Monthly noted that "Bacon is such a quintessential breakfast staple, even vegetarians stake a claim to their own versions." A website called "Bacon Today" was started to provide updates about bacon related happenings.
Dipping products in diluted solutions or soaking them in brines containing liquid smoke followed by heating was done long before the modern industrial era using Wright's liquid smoke and pyroligneous acid precursors.
In nouvelle cuisine, which shifted the standard food presentation approach from larger platters to individually pre-portioned plates, the garde manger is often responsible for arranging food decoratively on the plates.
Around January 1980, the American Meat Institute tried to ban use of the term "turkey ham" for products that are composed solely of turkey and contain no pork.
Because of interferences with the brown color of dissolved organic matter (DOM: humic and fulvic acids) often present in soil pore water, artefacts can easily affect the absorbance values.
The meat is then separated from the bones, minced, recombined with the broth, dressed with the slices of boiled egg and herbs like parsley and cooled until it solidifies into a jelly.
It is often added to soups, such as pea and ham soup, with the meat being added to the soup prior to serving.
Common sides to accompany the Texas hot link include sliced white bread, crackers, orange cheese, onion slices and pickles.
Dyeing In Japan, the extract of smoked plums (ubai) is used as a mordant for the natural red dye derived from safflower (benibana).
In comparison with standard bacon, which is prepared with pork, the product is naturally lower in fat and calories and is commonly marketed for these qualities.
In Russia, the pâté is served on a plate or in a bowl, and is typically moulded into the shapes of animals, such as hedgehogs.
They are sometimes served as appetizers or as an ingredient in the preparation of various dishes and appetizers.
Jallab or jellab (Arabic: جلاب, romanized: jallāb) is a type of fruit syrup popular in the Levant made from carob, dates, grape molasses, and rose water.
The author says that only two couples successfully claimed the flitch in a century: The first was a sea captain and his wife, who since the day of their marriage had not seen each other till the day of the claim.
Varieties There are numerous varieties of French pâtés or terrines, including: Parfait Chicken liver parfait is a subtype of pâté.
Infused smoked salts like smoked bacon chipotle sea salt are very popular because of their flavor profiles.
Dehydration has been used widely for this purpose since ancient times; the earliest known practice is 12,000 B.C.
Some chefs and recipes utilise seasonal mashed pumpkin, squash or sweet potato for added thickness and flavour.
In 2019, the company launched its 'Beyond Burger 2.0', which was a 'meatier' design with less saturated fat than the original product.
A notable sandwich with Zeeuws spek is made in Vermaat restaurant, in IJsselstein; Ronald van der Kruk uses Zeeuws spek, bacon, katenspek (bacon which is boiled before it is smoked), and ontbijtspek ("breakfast bacon").
Speck can refer to a number of European cured pork products, typically salted and air-cured and often lightly smoked but not cooked.
Other Swedish sausages include prinskorv, fläskkorv, köttkorv and isterband; all of these, in addition to falukorv, are often accompanied by potato mash or rotmos (a root vegetable mash) rather than bread.
History Mombar originated in Ottoman cuisine, and eventually spread into Iraqi, Egyptian, and Levantine cuisine.
It is made with minced beef and tallow, marinated with garlic, salt, chillies and spices, and stuffed into cow's or buffalo's small intestines.
Hams can only be labeled "honey-cured" if honey was at least 50% of the sweetener used, is at least 3% of the formula, and has a discernible effect on flavour.
For example, in Du provost a l'aumuche a provost hides some bacon that he has stolen from a feast prepared for his master under his hat (the "aumuche" of the title, a large fur hat), but is caught and beaten after the bacon fat, melted by a nearby fire, starts to drip down his head.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
Curing is done using a spice and salt mixture containing nitrates or nitrites, which act to extend the shelf life of cured meats.
The Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America states that the product was intended to increase the sale of pork shoulder, a cut which did not sell well.
Leuconostoc is a genus of gram-positive bacteria, placed within the family of Leuconostocaceae, order Lactobacillales.
The Zurich sausage affair was interpreted as a demonstration of Christian liberty and is considered to be of similar importance for Switzerland as Martin Luther's 95 theses in Wittenberg for the German Reformation.
Boiled bacon is ready-to-eat, as is some smoked bacon, but they may be cooked further before eating.
One of the Tour's regular participants, Heather Lauer, appeared on the 2009 Tour's stop in Pittsburgh; there, for thirty dollars, participants could compete in a bacon-eating contest and (without additional cost) taste bacon-samples from vendors.
These are mainly spices and condiments, with an increasing segment of fresh fruit irradiated for fruit fly quarantine.
Slovenia In Slovenia, aspic is known as žolca (derived from the German sülze, meaning head cheese) or tlačenka in Slovene.
These may be made from tofu, seitan, nuts, pulses, mycoprotein, soya protein, vegetables or any combination of similar ingredients that will hold together during cooking.
This was followed by the introduction of a sausage-links version in the USA in October 2020 and Canada in September 2021.
Analysis of nitrite Nitrite is detected and analyzed by the Griess Reaction, involving the formation of a deep red-colored azo dye upon treatment of a NO−2-containing sample with sulfanilic acid and naphthyl-1-amine in the presence of acid.
This guild system was eliminated by Napoléon Bonaparte around the time of the turn of the 19th century.
At the time, the months-long journey from China to Europe necessitated preservation methods and the partial oxidation of this Wuyi tea, an oolong tea graded as bohea or souchong, was better able to preserve its quality.
Job requirements As with most hands-on cooking positions, a garde manger chef needs fine motor skills and physical stamina, as well as cooking skills and knowledge of food safety.
Founded by members of the Iowa Bacon Board, the festival sold 200 tickets to the first festival in 2008.
History The preserving of pork leg as ham has a long history, with traces of production of cured ham among the Etruscan civilisation known in the 6th and 5th century BC.
Another common type of pâté in Jewish cuisine, also popular in Russia and Ukraine, is vorschmack, or gehakte herring (chopped herring).
Preparation and serving Tung lamaow is made using specific cuts of beef, primarily the tougher thigh muscle, as well as fat from the cow's stomach lining and intestines.
Caesar salad, chef salad, Cobb salad, Chinese chicken salad, Michigan salad, and Pittsburgh salad are dinner salads.
Since different species of trees have different ratios of components, various types of wood do impart a different flavor to food.
This status is assigned only to selected products obtained according to traditional methods and in specific geographical areas.
Religious restrictions on pork The popularity of turkey bacon is also attributed to the fact that pork consumption is not permissible in Judaism and Islam, nor among Christian sects that consider Jewish law to still be binding.
Other methods There are many different methods for drying, each with its own advantages for particular applications.
It is the most common cut of bacon used in British and Irish cuisine, where both smoked and unsmoked varieties of bacon are found.
City ham is the name for a variety of brine-cured hams that are not dry-cured or dried, so must be refrigerated for safe storage.
Potassium nitrite and potassium nitrate additions allow the production of sausages with lower levels of sodium.
The best known cecina is Cecina de León, which is made of the hind legs of a cow, salted, smoked and air-dried in the provinces of León and Palencia in northwestern Spain, and has PGI status.
They may also be cooked in a wide variety of non-pottery terrine moulds, such as stainless steel, aluminium, enameled cast iron, and ovenproof plastic.
Meduna was one of several Friulian entrepreneurs who adapted Italian culinary tradition and created a new market and industry for salami.
Sheftalia (locally [ʃeftaˈʎa]; Greek: σεφταλιά; Turkish: Şeftali Kebabı) is a traditional sausage that originated in Cyprus.
This line of quotation stems from American poet John Godfrey Saxe, who said "Laws, like sausages, cease to inspire respect in proportion as we know how they are made" (1869).
Additionally, turkey bacon serves as a substitute for standard bacon in cases where pork consumption is forbidden by religious doctrine, such as Judaism and Islam.
Nutritional value Two strips (around 28 grams or 1 ounce) of Butterball-made turkey bacon contain 3 grams of fat and 50 calories (32% of which from fat); turkey bacon produced from Louis Rich and Mr.
Limosilactobacillus reuteri has been used as a model organism to evaluate the host-adaptation of lactobacilli to the human and animal intestine and for the recruitment of intestinal lactobacilli for food fermentations.
A scallop is a common name applied to many species of marine bivalve mollusks in the family Pectinidae, the scallops.
Their herds of sheep and pigs were so many, they could provide skins and salt meat not only for Rome, but also for most of Italy.
The smoke shed has several upper floors or lofts made of wooden slats where leaves can be laid out, allowing batches to be closer or farther from the source heat and smoke.
Other cuisines In Moroccan cuisine, paprika (tahmira) is much used in dishes such as bissara and chermoula.
See also Vallée d'Aoste Lard d'Arnad References External links Lardo in the online Culinary Heritage of Switzerland database.
Its popularity among Filipinos has led to the creation of a version with sugar and annatto—Spam with tocino seasoning, made for the overseas Filipino market in the US and Canada.
His first rift with the established religious authorities in Switzerland occurred during the Lenten fast of 1522, when he was present during the eating of sausages at the house of Christoph Froschauer, a printer in the city who later published Zwingli's translation of the Bible.
Moreover, these meals evolved and found their way to higher society with the cheese course of formal dinners in 18th and 19th century France, Great Britain, and colonial America.
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts, especially game, including venison and pheasant, and may also be used to insulate or flavour roast joints by being layered onto the meat.
Following the March 2011 earthquake, Spam sales in Japan declined, and Hormel shifted its focus to China, although Hormel did pledge to donate $100,000 along with cans of Spam for relief efforts.
The sausages are also crumbled or cut and added to curries, stews, chilly fry (a sautée of vegetables and meat, usually beef), and pulão or pulav for flavour and animal protein in Goan households.
In the Appalachian Mountains, it is common to add ham hocks along with chopped onion and spices to pots of pinto beans to make the meal more hearty.
Cured cooked sausages Cured sausages differ from fresh sausages by including 2 teaspoons of cure (Prague powder #1) per 10 pounds of finished product.
Beyond meats, cheeses, and breads, other components are often included to complement the flavors and textures of these foods.
Smoked salt differs from smoke-flavored salt, as the latter contains a smoke-flavored additive, and is not classified as a natural salt product.
Canned adobo sauce is the most common form in the United States of America, though its marinade or food preservative form originated in Spain.
The fruit is spherical or oblate, around 2–3 centimetres (0.79–1.18 in) long and 1.5–2 centimetres (0.59–0.79 in) in diameter.
Other Friulian butchers followed suit in the seasonal production of winter salami, including the Del Medico brothers, the Guglielmini, Suberca, Molinari, Boschetti, Forgiarini, Dozzi, Vidoni and Venturini.
Ham hocks are essential ingredients for the distinct flavor in soul food and other forms of American Southern country cooking.
A hot link (also "red link", "Louisiana red hot" or "Louisiana hot link") is a type of sausage used in the cuisine of the Southern United States, and a part of American barbecue, soul food, and Cajun and Louisiana Creole cuisines.
There is no standard recipe for Hmong sausage, but the key ingredients are coarse ground fatty pork cuts such as pork belly and pork shoulder, Thai chili peppers, lemongrass, kaffir lime leaf or lime juice, and fresh ginger root or galangal.
The local variety of chistorra available in the province of León is called Chistorra de León and is made with a larger percentage of beef.
The earliest surviving record of the flitch being awarded, from the cartulary of Dunmow Priory, dates to 1445, some time after the custom was mentioned by Langland and Chaucer.
The term is usually used in modern cuisine to mean long, slow cooking in fat at low temperatures, many having no element of preservation, such as in dishes like confit potatoes.
Nitric oxide can be created de novo from nitric oxide synthase utilizing arginine or from ingested nitrite.
These are minced together, then stuffed in large sausage casings and smoked, creating a soft large sausage, which is then aged for 3–6 months.
This minced beef is then combined with fat in a 1:5 ratio, creating a rich mixture that is packed into cleaned cow intestines.
Poland In Central, Eastern, and Northern Europe, aspic often takes the form of pork jelly and is popular around the Christmas and Easter holidays.
Salo is often chopped into small pieces and fried to render fat for cooking, while the remaining shkvarky (a type of cracklings) are used as condiments for fried potatoes or varenyky or spread on bread as a snack.
With the development of classical French cuisine under the influence of François Pierre La Varenne and his 1651 book Le cuisinier françois, the garde manger also took on fresh fruits and vegetables.
Each year, at the festival, Hans Mantinger "Gletscherhons", a master in the art of slicing speck, presents his surprise creations.
It is usually baked, fried or grilled and often accompanies other dishes, sometimes as part of tapas.
See also Salt pork Szalonna, Hungarian salt pork Lardo, Italian salt pork Charcuterie Notes References Further reading Viktoriya Popovych, There Is No Ukraine Without Salo: An Analysis of the Cultural and Social Significance of Salo in Ukraine, Compass, 2023, vol 3, issue 1, pp.
Notable Japanese ice sculptors include Yukio Matsuo, author of "Ice Sculpture: Secrets of a Japanese Master," Mitsuo Shimizu, author of several Japanese books on ice sculpture, and Junichi Nakamura, winner of multiple world ice sculpting titles.
Blamed for causing the 'stink' when creating a sourdough starter, some species are also capable of causing human infection.
In cuisine As an ingredient, fatback is a preferred fat for various forms of charcuterie, particularly sausages and forcemeats for pâtés and terrines.
It is made from caul fat, or omentum, the membrane that surrounds the stomach of pig or lamb, to wrap the ingredients rather than sausage casing.
Lardo di Colonnata is included in the Ark of Taste catalog of heritage foods and has been a protected geographical indication (PGI) since 2004.
He was a member of the Hungarian Armed Forces Association and one of the founders of the Hungarian Industry Association.
She writes about fatness, fat acceptance, and anti-fat bias, and have given talks about sexuality, fat positivity, disability justice, and racism.
He was also head of medical services in that country, receiving several Russian and Prussian honours.
Johnson researches adolescent health and substance abuse and violence in marginalized groups including persons of color, LGBT youth, and immigrants.
In the first of these he examined and compared the opinions of ancient and modern writers on the subject.
In 1972, he was elevated to the status of a professor and head of the Psychiatry Department of the University of Ghana Medical School.
In 1976 he worked as a psychologist for prisoners in Western Australia, researching public views on punishment for crimes and court sentencing.
A former All Star Gaelic footballer who played at senior level for Dublin county team for nearly 15 years, he retired from county football in 2005 and spent another four years playing with his club Na Fianna.
After moving to New York City, Butts joined the Planned Parenthood's Board of Directors, through which she met sex researchers Masters and Johnson in the 1970s.
A radio career in iRadio and Spin 1038 followed, before she decided to step away from broadcasting to travel.
Subspecialties The field of psychiatry has many subspecialties that require additional (fellowship) training, which, in the US, are certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN) and require Maintenance of Certification Program to continue.
Charles Sidney Bluemel (17 July 1884 – 17 December 1960) was a British–American psychiatrist and pioneer of speech pathology, best known for his research on stuttering.
As a faculty member of psychology at the University of New Brunswick, she established the Muriel McQueen Fergusson Centre for Family Violence.
With Andrew Matthews, Holmes outlined three different ways that mental imagery alters emotional experiences.
He was confirmed as Dublin senior football team manager on 12 December 2019, succeeding Jim Gavin on a three-year contract.
Minuchin once wrote of Haley as his most important teacher, a man who was "forever pushing the envelope, testing the limits of new ideas" to challenge Minuchin and himself.
Sherwood, was published in 1966 as The Nature of Psychology: A Selection of Papers, Essays and Other Writings by Kenneth J.
She developed opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and meningitis, and as a result she became blind and deaf in one ear.
He served as a professor and Deputy Medical Superintendent at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore.
His residency included trainings in internal medicine, metabolic and eating disorders, and psychiatry at university hospitals in Zurich, London, and Paris.
Second Thoughts on the Theory and Practice of the Milan Approach to Family Therapy (The Systemic Thinking and Practice Series) (1st ed.).
Works His main works are: Observations on the Nature, Kinds, Causes, and Prevention of Insanity, Lunacy, or Madness, London and Leicester, 1782, 1786.
Roland Kuhn (4 March 1912 – 10 October 2005) was a Swiss psychiatrist who discovered that the drug imipramine had antidepressant properties.
Richardson and Emily Preyer Distinguished Professorship at the University of North Carolina School of Social Work and was a fellow at the Frank Porter Graham Child Development Center.
She is an advocate for inclusive education in the Dominican Republic and was UNESCO Chair on Social and Academic Inclusion for People with Disabilities and Special Education Needs at UNIBE from 2013 to 2017.
The assembled group of people decided to form an organization, and adopted the name Vancouver Area Network of Drug Users a year later.
Schwartz came from a Jewish family, but as an adult he adopted multiple beliefs from a variety of different religions.
in Educational Psychology and Counseling, Watson begun her career teaching nursing courses at the CU College of Nursing.
Publications and research He has authored more than 70 peer-reviewed articles in national and international journals and has contributed extensively to public awareness through books and articles in Kannada and English.
According to The Guardian, Singh sees her work as helping intercultural, mixed race and migrant couples.
Joy Harden Bradford (born 1979) is an African American clinical psychologist based in Atlanta, Georgia.
The Center was established in 2005, and focuses their trainings and programs on persons seeking to take personal responsibility to improve their wellness.
University education and career On finishing high school, Poulton moved to Dunedin to attend the University of Otago.
Elias is also responsible for the Catholic Christian Education Committee, and supervises the Catholic Church educational centres in Greater Damascus.
He was appointed physician in ordinary to George IV in 1823, in 1830 physician extraordinary to Queen Adelaide, and in 1833 lord chancellor's visitor in lunacy.
Career Hughes started his career in London in the 1990s before training as a psychologist and psychotherapist.
Felice Lieh–Mak (Chinese: 麥列菲菲; Jyutping: Mak6 Lit6 Fei1-fei1; born (1941-08-10)10 August 1941) is a Hong Kong physician, psychiatrist, academician, editor and retired civil servant, and emeritus professor at the University of Hong Kong.
He started to be known as Andrew Skarbek and in 1969 became clinical director of the London Clinic of Psychotherapy.
He became a lecturer at Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry in 1992, and became a professor there in 1998.
In 1989, botanists John Charles David and David Leslie Hawksworth published Lauderlindsaya, which is a genus of fungi in the family Verrucariaceae and named in Lindsay's honour.
In this work, from the Encyclopædia Edinensis, Poole acknowledges help in early life from Archibald Alison.
His first book, Insatiable Wives, won a Silver Medal in the Foreword Magazine Book of the Year in 2009.
Pasricha studies not just the characteristics of reincarnation prevalent in India, but also suggests ways they are similar or different from those of people in other countries.
While it seems counterintuitive to suppose that introverts are more aroused than extraverts, the putative effect this has on behaviour is such that the introvert seeks lower levels of stimulation.
Honours Donegal Ulster Senior Football Championship: 1972 Ulster Minor Football Championship: 1956 Dr McKenna Cup: 1963, 1965, 1967 Dr Lagan Cup: 1965, 1966, 1967 Donegal Senior Football Championship x5 Democrat Cup x3 == References ==
Because these feelings often are felt insufferable, another layer is built, the layer of defending emotions like anger, aggression, rage and defiance.
He was the author of Visions in Verse, first published in 1751; and a two volume complete collection of his works was published in 1791.
In 2014 he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.
"American Association of Colleges of Nursing, and the Department of Baccalaureate and Higher Degree Programs: Purposes, Roles and Relationships" in National League for Nursing Publications (New York: National League for Nursing, 1974).
She was the first curator at the Kitale Museum when it opened in 1973, under the supervision of Richard Leakey.
Life He was born at 106 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh on 24 June 1833 the son of Jane Graham (1807–1875), from Clonmel, Ireland and William Sibbald (1799–1877).
In 2021, as a member of the Council's committee on equalities, Morrison supported flying the Pride flag at the council's offices in Elgin, and at Secondary Schools around Moray.
Dix traveled from New Hampshire to Louisiana, documenting the condition of the poor mentally ill, making reports to state legislatures, and working with committees to draft the enabling legislation and appropriations bills needed.
He was placed on injured reserve on September 1, 1988, after tearing the connective tissue on his left foot during practice on August 31, 1988.
He was an expert communicator for the government drug education service FRANK, and co-founded the Amy Winehouse Foundation.
From December 2003 to February 2004, she was strategic business manager for Portsmouth City Primary Care Trust.
Transdiagnostic approaches Harvey was among the early proponents of transdiagnostic frameworks in clinical psychology.
Books The Shock of the Fall (HarperFiction, 2013; The Borough Press, 2014) The Heartland (also published as This Book will Change Your Mind about Mental Health ) (Faber, 2019) Audio Why Do I Feel?
He won the Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis (German Youth Literature Award) in 1996 for Als die Welt noch jung war.
Wykle put her vision into practice, going on to direct a geriatric psychiatry graduate nursing program during her early years as a faculty member of Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing.
However, these sessions were terminated after the arrest of one of the organizers, which resulted in people being afraid and refraining from participating.
Together they developed therapeutic community initiatives which laid the foundations for significant advances in psychiatric nursing.
Bell has written articles on psychology and neuroscience for several newspapers and magazines, including The Guardian, Discover, Slate, Wired UK, The Independent and The Atlantic.
Her mother, a Jehovah's Witness, attempted to "cure" her of her lesbianism after she fell in love with a girl.
Anderson nevertheless trained successfully as a nurse at Nottingham General Hospital and did psychiatric nursing at the Coppice Hospital.
A fluent Spanish speaker, for several years he undertook teaching and clinical work at university facilities in Colombia and worked as a mental health coordinator for Médecins sans Frontières in difficult conditions.
Career and activism Graham worked as an addiction counsellor and therapist, running his own drug rehabilitation company which included a weekly LGBTI addiction and recovery therapy group.
He became deeply interested in the legal status of the medical profession, and organised the Association of Surgeon-Apothecaries of England and Wales, with the object of improving the education and status of the profession.
Transdiagnostic Intervention for Sleep and Circadian Dysfunction Harvey co-developed the Transdiagnostic Intervention for Sleep and Circadian Dysfunction (also known as TranS-C or TSC) with Daniel J.
She was named by Time magazine as one of their Europeans of the Year in 2003 and in 2016 won the Irish Council for Civil Liberties Human Rights Film award for her coverage of the refugee crisis.
The following year, she returned to the university and worked in strength training as a graduate assistant.
On 20 April 2010 Indermaur was a speaker at the Rally For Your Rights event, organized by Search For Your Rights, where he criticized stop and search laws.
She was awarded the ‘100 Women Achievers of India’ in 2016 by the President of India for her work on mental health.
Additionally, Davis and University of Birmingham colleagues will work to translate prior research on alcohol-related sexual assault into real-world prevention practices.
Dr Archibald Campbell Clark FFPSG (1852–1901) was a nineteenth-century Scottish physician who made major advances in mental health care philosophies.
There he received his master's degree in science and his postgraduate diploma in clinical psychology.
She pointed out that a large proportion of existing psychiatric hospitals did not have full approval for training.
After working at Bacon Health Center, she was transferred to the Delaware State Psychiatric Hospital in 1963.
Following that additional support, Woebot has been suspected to reduce depression and anxiety symptoms within as little as the passage of two weeks.
Research Rindermann does research in educational psychology, developmental psychology, differential psychology, pedagogy, and clinical psychology.
She graduated in 2009 with a degree in English Literature and Cinema Studies from the College of Arts & Science of the New York University.
He then returned to India to study theology at De Nobili College in Pune and was ordained to the priesthood in March 1961.
He practiced psychiatry in Denver and was the owner of Mount Airy Sanitarium (1927–1953), a private psychiatric hospital.
In 1954 he returned to the United States to be trained in psychoanalysis at the William Alanson White Institute.
1999-2007 he was president of the international Society for Gestalt Theory and its Applications (GTA).
In 1858 he was elected a Fellow of the Linnean Society (FLS) and in 1861 a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Believing that art "transcended reality", Kaupas belonged to a generation of literary critics dubbed the lankininkai, after their magazine Literatūros lankai.
Lazarus, early writer in CBT Richard Lazarus Tatia Lee Harriet Lerner Marsha Linehan, founder of dialectical behavior therapy M Isaac Marks Paul R.
However by 1906 the magistrates had started to become disillusioned with the efficacy of the inebriate reformatories.
She attended Indiana University, where she was a member of Alpha Gamma Delta sorority, and she earned a degree in zoology at the University of Kentucky.
Her presentations, Expert Testimony in Cases of Child Sexual Abuse and Identification of Red Flag Sexual Grooming Behaviors: Implications for Practice, were offered live and are also available on demand.
When she arrived at Yale, Taylor was selected to become a superintendent at the Yale–New Haven Hospital while teaching.
Career David founded the management consulting firm Evidence Based Psychology in 1999 and serves as its CEO.
She started a walk-in clinic, a mobile clinic, and a telephone helpline, and her efforts were credited with contributing to lowering the suicide rate in the city.
From the age of one, she lived in an apartment in Frankfurt with her parents and her paternal grandmother, Selma, who was a widow.
In 1982, he moved to England, where he joined the Institute of Psychiatry's Addiction Research Unit.
Tuesdays with Morrie Schwartz achieved national prominence posthumously after being featured as the subject of Mitch Albom's 1997 best-selling memoir, Tuesdays with Morrie.
His role as Commissioner of Lunacy was based at 51 Queen Street and he lived at 13 Heriot Row which faces that building across Queen Street Gardens.
Publications Réseau Alternative à la psychiatrie (1977) Formations et pratiques en thérapie familiale (1985) Les pratiques de réseaux : santé mentale et contexte social (1987) Si tu m’aimes, ne m’aime pas.
Her 1977 article for Ebony magazine, "Sex Education: Who Needs It?", was the Ebony's first feature on the topic.
In 2019, he became professor and chair of psychiatry and psychotherapy at the University of Fribourg.
Career Christmas left private practice to set up the Harlem Hospital Rehabilitation Center and to teach at Columbia University.
Clemmons's work was recognized by the American Psychiatric Association, and she won the Federal Woman's Award in 1972, "for singular professional competence and qualities of human understanding".
In 2018 the Conservative-Independent administration collapsed and the SNP formed a minority administration.
Festschrift für Martin Salzer (in German), Wien: Rebell, ISBN 978-3-9500516-0-5 Monika Salzer; Peter Karner [in German] (2008), Vom Christbaum zur Ringstraße.
Life After training in clinical psychology, Hetherington worked for a period in the Creighton Royal Hospital in Dumfries about which he wrote Hetherington, 1956).
This was a time when divorced women were still stigmatized, and part of her mission in opening Rockhaven was so that women would be treated with respect.
Career Stevenson trained as a psychiatric nurse before completing a BA (Hons) in psychology and sociology at Sunderland Polytechnic.
It was awarded the 1998 British Psychological Society Book Award for significant contributions to psychology and remains a definitive text in this field, recently being reprinted for a 20th anniversary edition.
In 1957, Kuhn published the results of his observations of the antidepressant properties of Imipramine in the Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift (Swiss Weekly Medical Journal).
"Terrorism, distress and coping: High versus low impact regions and direct versus indirect civilian exposure." Anxiety, Stress, and Coping 18.3 (2005): 165-182.
Exploratory therapy, Genspect and SEGM O'Malley advocates for "exploratory therapy" in response to gender dysphoria and has written and testified about how some conversion therapy bills risk limiting access to exploratory therapy.
After training in clinical psychology she completed a PhD on depression among women at the University of Oxford (1985).
Duncan was the inaugural President of the society and served as one of its Secretaries for 46 years from 1782-1828.
References External links Jane and Littleton Mitchell Center for African American Heritage - Big Picture (2016 video)
Louis Francisque Lélut (1804–1877) was a French medical doctor and philosopher known for his works Démon de Socrate and L'Amulette de Pascal, where he stated that Socrates and Blaise Pascal were insane.
She also acquired certifications in sex and relationship therapy from the Cambridge Health Alliance of Harvard Medical School and Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality (SSSS).
Academic career Spring has held faculty appointments in preventive medicine, psychology, and psychiatry, and has worked at the intersection of behavioral science and public health.
She established Positive Movement to champion sexual and reproductive health rights and build an inclusive society that does not judge people based on disabilities or HIV status.
Burns created the first federal initiatives in children's mental health services research at the National institute of Mental Health in the late 1980s.
From 2017 to 2023, Horsham was a councillor for the Clydesdale South ward on for South Lanarkshire Council.
In 1927, she moved to England because the Commonwealth Fund of America requested her to do an experiment to work on clinics for children.
As chairman of this body Burrows was most indefatigable, and had a large share in the movement which led to the passing of the Apothecaries' Act in 1815.
Asagwara served as a member of the former Premier's Advisory Council on education, poverty, and citizenship, and as a member of the Women's Health Clinic board of directors.
His prose is described as cleansing the Lithuanian tradition of poetic speech and turning it into a direction of universality and playfulness which does not seek ideological arguments to strengthen the nation's existence.
At Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, she became director of behavioral medicine and later directed the Center for Behavior and Health within the Institute for Public Health and Medicine.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.911629 Makol, B.A., Youngstrom, E.A., Racz, S.J., Qasmieh, N., Glenn, L.E., & De Los Reyes, A.
Burns died on January 28, 2024, after living at the Carol Woods Retirement Community for three years.
INTAR: The International Network Toward Alternatives and Recovery (together with Laurie Ahern & Peter Stastny).
at St Andrews in October 1769, and in May 1770 became a licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.
Keegan also won a National Football League medal in 1979, though injury prevented him from playing against Cork in the final.
Jürg Schubiger (14 October 1936 – 15 September 2014) was a Swiss psychotherapist and writer of children's books.
He is co-editor (executive editor 2000–2012) of the international multidisciplinary journal "Gestalt Theory" (de Gruyter) and of the journal "Phänomenal - Zeitschrift für Gestalttheoretische Psychotherapie" (Krammer).
The Trans Writers Union also announced a boycott of the paper due to what they characterised as advocating conversion therapy and a pattern of transphobic behavior.
She died of leukemia at the Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo, after having concealed her illness until the last six weeks of her life.
Approche systémique et psychothérapie (1989) La thérapie familiale en changement (1994) Panorama des thérapies familiales À quel psy se vouer ?
"Antipsychotics, Other Psychotropics, and the Risk of Death in Patients With Dementia: Number Needed to Harm".
Surely, the righteous are taken away from the evil to come, and we are left to struggle on under increasing difficulties.
David wrote the self-help book Emotional Agility, which was published with Penguin Random House in 2016.
Daniella Moyles is an Irish psychotherapist, broadcaster and former model from Naas, County Kildare.
In 2009, the German version of ICD-10 GM introduced the new diagnosis F45.41 "Chronic pain with mental and somatic factors".
She has represented the IPC at the Vista Conference, the Africa Continental Organisational Capacity Program for National Paralympic Committees and co-facilitated the Africa Women in Leadership workshops.
Heba Kotb (Arabic: هبة قطب; born September 19, 1967) is an Egyptian certified sex therapist and host of The Big Talk, a sexual advice show airing in Egypt.
Lord Shaftesbury (as Ashley had become upon his father's death in 1851) was the chief witness and opposed the suggestion that the certification of insanity be made more difficult and that early treatment of insanity was essential if there was to be any prospect of a cure.
Over the course of the following fourteen seasons he enjoyed much success, the highlight being in 1936 when he won an All-Ireland medal.
Articles In 2021, his article What are Attachment Styles and How Do They Influence Adult Behavior appeared in Choosing Therapy.
More recently, it was discovered that he tested drugs on patients and children without informed consent and without proper approval by the authorities during his time at the psychiatric hospital in Münsterlingen (where he was director 1971–1980), a practice that is highly unethical.
Ayesha Chundrigar (Urdu: عائشہ چندریگر) is a Pakistani animal welfare activist, entrepreneur and journalist.
In 2005, Copeland's work led to the creation of the non-profit, the Copeland Center for Wellness and Recovery which continues her work through trainings around the world.
In 1792 he became Principal Physician as successor to his father, while he also inherited his father's private asylum at Brooke House in Clapton.
He left an estate worth $2,757,000 much of which he gave in endowments to several US universities and other institutions.
Education and career Indermaur graduated from the University of Western Australia, obtaining a masters in clinical psychology in 1979 and a Doctor of Law in 1997.
He has designed a number of noted approaches to working in clinical settings, including The DICES Risk Assessment and Management System and The RAID Course for Working with Challenging Behaviour.
Helen Brew had been still at high school when she heard Bevan-Brown lecture, and was "hugely impressed".
Career From 1898 to 1914, he was one of the Commissioners in Lunacy, a UK public body established by the Lunacy Act 1845 to oversee the asylums and the general welfare of the mentally ill.
In 1895 he was appointed Chief Medical Superintendent of the newly completed asylum - Hartwood Hospital, serving Lanark.
As a result, she began researching the topic, eventually coming across a passage in the Qur'an discussing sexual relations between husbands and wives that she saw as speaking to the woman's sexual rights.
He has appeared at writers’ festivals and workshops in South Africa and, more recently, in Sydney, Australia, where he now lives with his wife and their three children.
Provence was named an All-American by The Sporting News while garnering Associated Press Third-team All-American and Gannett News Service Second-team All-American accolades in 1982.
Batten has spoken about how her friendship with Eagle ‘unlocked her art,’ and ‘crystallised her ideas.’ Eagle in turn has also acknowledged Batten for her own shift to environmental issues.
In 1985, he won another poetry competition with his poem called Scott’s first voyage, in a competition that was held by the Poetry Association of Scotland.
She had been a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Galway West constituency from 2016 until her election as president in 2025.
Emigration to the United States Kaupas and his wife emigrated to the United States, reaching New York on 18 February 1950.
and is also Professor II of Clinical Psychology at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology.
She also co-hosts The Sexy Minds podcast with Boys’ Night Out’s Tony Toni, where they talk about Filipino sexual experiences and behaviors.
Her 1995 dissertation was titled, Regulation of adult neurogenesis in the rat dentate gyrus by adrenal steroids and excitatory input.
Sudders holds a bachelor's degree with honors and a master's degree in social work from Boston University, and honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts School of Professional Psychology and Bridgewater State University.
He has also been a panelist on the BBC Radio 2 Book Club, BBC Radio 3's Free Thinking and BBC Radio 4's Open Book, Front Row, All in the Mind and the Today Programme.
Arndt also takes a conservative view on having children outside of marriage, and has questioned the dedication of mothers entering parliament.
These were acquired during his tenure as physician to Alexander I of Russia and during his travels throughout Europe when he was studying medicine.
Bryan Waller Procter (21 November 1787 – 5 October 1874), who wrote under the pseudonym Barry Cornwall, was an English poet who served as a Commissioner in Lunacy.
She founded her own consultancy firm in February 2017, joining the National Association for Education and Training Support in Bahrain that April.
From 2000 to 2004, she initiated and developed a process of developing the organisation of the Protestant Church of the Augsburg Confession, together with Michael Bünker, then director of the Religionspädagogische Akademie, and Thomas Krobath from the Kirchliche Pädagogische Hochschule Wien/Krems.
She is founder of the Ayesha Chundrigar Foundation, a non profit animal rescue organization based in Karachi, Pakistan.
In this position he established a training programme in clinical psychology and co-authored a textbook for medical students.
He was often criticized by the medical establishment for his "overly liberal" methods of treatment, as he favored allowing patients the right to express themselves via art, and discouraged the widespread practices of physical restraint and punishment of asylum patients in that day.
Early life and education Linda Lucille Wiley was born in Evansville, Indiana, and graduated from Evansville Central High School in 1963.
thesis, entitled 'Measurement of patient-nurse interaction in relation to in-patient psychiatric treatment', was supervised by Elsie Stephenson in 1967.
His league and championship career at senior level with the Mayo county team lasted fourteen seasons from 1934 until 1948.
Key publications Wells' first book Attention and Emotion: A Clinical Perspective (co-authored with Gerald Matthews) presented a critique and framework for applying cognitive psychology to the understanding of psychopathology.
Further career In 1958 Nicolas joined the staff of the General Nursing Council (GNC) for England and Wales as an inspector of nurse training schools.
He is also a Clinical Director at Somer Counseling and Psychotherapy, and serves as scientific advisor in Trauma and Dissociation Israel.
The piece was a rebuttal to the essay Remissions: Toward a Deconstruction of Phallic Univocality written by art critic and theorist Lita Barrie in 1986.
Befrienders are carefully selected volunteers, from a variety of organisations and mental health charities, who are trained to provide support and companionship to lonely, or emotionally distressed, people.
She is also the lead author on a meta-analysis of the symptoms of the prodrome to bipolar disorder, which provided a foundation for work by her and others aiming to predict the risk of onset of bipolar disorder.
Moreover, in a letter to William Montgomerie, Abbot admitted that the idea of risking all on full-time writing scared him.
He specialised in psychosis and neuropsychology and graduated with a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
(In the Netherlands, a distinction is made between arts in opleiding tot specialist (AIOS) and arts niet in opleiding tot specialist (ANIOS).
In January 2016, she got felicitated by the President of India, Pranab Mukherjee, as one of the top 100 Women Achievers of the country.
Langner (January 1, 1924 – March 16, 2026) was an American sociologist who led the Midtown Manhattan Study, which showed the cultural and economic forces that shape mental illness.
Rief's research examines the psychological factors involved in the development, maintenance and management of physical complaints, including investigations of somatic symptom disorders and placebo effects.
This work includes the examination of interventions aimed at improving these outcomes in this population, quality of housing for adults with complex needs, and collaborative care models in mental health.
Senate profile (2020) Archived 22 October 2021 at the Wayback Machine Chamber of Senators (in Spanish).
Munnelly made his senior debut for Mayo during the 1934–35 league and quickly became a regular member of the starting fifteen.
Council of Representatives Kamal entered politics by running in the 2018 Bahraini general election for the Council of Representatives, in which she ran for the second district in the Capital Governorate.
Hayes Stefan Hofmann Olivia Hooker Karen Horney, founder of feminist psychology and major theorist of conflict-based neuroses.
Harry Keegan (born 12 January 1952) is an Irish former Gaelic footballer who played as a corner back for the Roscommon senior team.
In 2005, his second novel Tingling was banned for a while since he touched upon the Omani security services.
Billig asserts that in the same year Eysenck also became a member of the comité de patronage of GRECE's Nouvelle École.
Chitra Raghavan is a clinical psychologist in New York City, specializing in domestic violence, sex trafficking, sexual harassment, rape, and other types of violent acts against humans.
She has won the Research award of the Australasian Society for Intellectual Disability four times since 1993.
Psychologist Carl Jung wrote in his 1960 book Synchronicity that there was a "sometimes quite grotesque coincidence between a man's name and his peculiarities".
Other examples Words 17 letters subdermatoglyphic 16 letters uncopyrightables 15 letters 14 letters 13 letters 12 letters There are hundreds of eleven-letter isograms, over one thousand ten-letter isograms and thousands of such nine-letter words.
Gameplay The play goals and game experience of the Internet version resemble the board game version.
See also Wise and Otherwise References External links Entry on the Canadian Intellectual Property Office's Web site BoardGameGeek entry
The genuine Indian name "Dikshit" ("dick shit") has been repeatedly mocked in mass media, often to the offense of people bearing the name.
Werewords is a board game for 4 to 10 players designed by Ted Alspach and published by Bézier Games in 2017.
Spelling and Anagrams (a set incorporating two distinct games, Spelling and Anagrams) was also published in the 1930s.
A word polygon is a word puzzle where the solver is presented with a grid or shape with 5 to 9 letters.
Discussions on these platforms have included debate over how the language should be shared and who should be considered appropriate custodians of its tradition.
He was the subject of several anecdotes and eventually a comprehensive twelve-page biography by Robert Funt.
The ABC logo was omitted altogether when the DVD set was released, with the CBS logo behind Ludden in the original picture being enlarged.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
Historic rhymes are used by linguists to reconstruct pronunciations of old languages, and are used particularly extensively in the reconstruction of Old Chinese, whose writing system does not allude directly to pronunciation.
In In Your Face, 16 columns of letters are stacked, and the player must make words by using the visible letters in the columns.
Most spoonerisms were probably never uttered by William Spooner himself but rather invented by colleagues and students as a pastime.
Then, each following player in sequence (usually clockwise or counterclockwise) must come up with a word beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
When an open syllable (one that ends in a vowel) has [o] or [e] as its vowel, it is changed to [ɔ] and [ɛ], respectively.
The term has its origin in competitive Scrabble, where a blank tile on a player's rack may be used to form any of several possible words in conjunction with the player's other tiles.
Later writers have come to regard the book as "groundbreaking", noting that it was the first book devoted solely to the description and study of wordplay, rather than simply providing a list of puzzles.
(سلام و علیکو ائ یار قدیمی) Bgofto dokhtarak bose' va me de (بگفتو دخترک یگ بوسئ وه مه ده) maga kuri ke bābāyom nadidi?
This variant of the game is hosted on a website called Germëzhimë, a portmanteau of germë (letter) and gumëzhimë (the buzzing of a bee).
A blanagram (portmanteau of blank and anagram) is a word which is an anagram of another but for the substitution of a single letter.
The two longest continuous trivia contests in the world are the Great Midwest Trivia Contest at Lawrence University and the Williams Trivia Contest, which both debuted in the spring of 1966.
Due to the constraints, West allows himself few liberties here and there, as can be witnessed in this example: See also Abecedarium Alphabet song Alphabiography Pangram == References ==
Much of practical sananmuunnos wordplay revolves around obscene double entendre expressed by spoonerism.
The term "Šatrovački" is attested in Serbian literature since as early as the year 1900, as a secret language of gamblers in Aleksinac.
Similarly cacographic anadromes are also characteristic of Victorian back slang, where for example yob stands for boy.
[...] From the perspective of Haféz as the composer of poetry, biluminosity allows two different points of view to shed light upon each other." See also Contronym Esoteric interpretation of the Quran References External links Īhām in Encyclopædia Iranica
Reception and legacy Beyond Language was not as great a success as Language on Vacation but it still attracted favorable reviews.
Since all the other children spoke Pig Latin, we were superior because Tut was hard to speak and even harder to understand.
From the introduction inside the box lid: RSVP is played on both sides of an upright frame by two players.
A joke about the Fuller Brush Company merging with Schick razors to become the "Fuller Schick Company" (i.e.
The poem shows the flexibility of the Chinese language in many ways, including wording, syntax, punctuation, and sentence structures, which gives rise to various explanations.
"Summer" is a song by Scottish DJ Calvin Harris, released on 14 March 2014 as the second single from his fourth studio album, Motion (2014).
If the answerer uses one of the forbidden words, he/she loses, and the two players might change roles and start a new session.
Dante prized the following sonnet she had composed in this fashion: Notes References ^ This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Gumuțeasca has thousands of words and a rich vocabulary that is very different from standard Romanian.
This is due to an application of the term by Arnobius, and was never common either in Latin or English.
See also Californian English Chinook Jargon Dialect Polari Speech community References Sources Rawles, Myrtle R.
The Embossing Company, formerly Halsam Products Company, also produced a yellow-on-black Eye-Rest set.
Around that time, he was reading "The Gold-Bug" by Edgar Allan Poe and noticed a line containing the English letter distribution.
The 1988 Parker Brothers game Scattergories is a reimplementation of Guggenheim, with a 20-sided die being used to generate random letters.
The purpose of verlan is to create a somewhat secret language that only its speakers can understand.
Alias is a Finnish board game, where the objective is to define words so that other players can guess them.
One essay describing a modern revival of Tut on TikTok characterizes the practice as subject to “secrecy and gatekeeping,” and reports that some participants argue it should remain within African-American descendant communities due to a history of cultural appropriation.
"Single-Snaps" are linear combinations of letters that form one word, while "Multi-Snaps" are combinations that form two or more words.
A sobriquet is distinct from a pseudonym in that it is typically a familiar name used in place of a real name without the need for explanation; it may even become more familiar than the original name.
Merriam-Webster's Befudiom is a word game where teams are challenged to guess selected idioms by acting, shouting, drawing, or spelling them out.
Several studies have investigated the use of this memory mnemonic as a form of an imagery-based memory system within the process of learning a second-language.
In combination with a refrain, it forms a limerick song, a traditional humorous drinking song often with obscene verses.
Tobias Hagge, another German musical comedian, notes that there was also a song popular around 1930, about a woman named Veronika, whose ability to make asparagus grow gives rise to a double entendre.
The passage from the official language to Riocontra occurs as mentioned mainly through the inversion of the syllables, but also with the change of the last vowel and truncation and elision in the last vowel of the neologism formed.
The term charade was borrowed into English from French in the second half of the eighteenth century, denoting a "kind of riddle in which each syllable of a word, or a complete word or phrase, is enigmatically described or dramatically represented".
After decades of history and predecessors, it was widely popularized by the 1972–1978 PBS children's show Zoom.
The r move The pronunciation of the letter "r" at the end of an inverted word risks merging with the next word or even not being pronounced, so it is placed between the two syllables once inverted to make the pronunciation more fluid.
"If you are not certain of any fact," Wittgenstein notes, "you cannot be certain of the meaning of your words either" (OC §114).
Augustine's well-known abecedarian psalm against the Donatists is the earliest known example of medieval rhythmical verse.
Jackbox also produced Dictionarium, with the key difference that the words are all made-up instead of picked from an unabridged dictionary.
Chrząszcz was translated into English by Walter Whipple as Cricket (whose Polish equivalent, świerszcz, is also considered difficult to pronounce for non-Polish speakers).
Originally available over Internet Relay Chat, the game has since been developed into a number of variants, as a download, playable through a browser, via Twitter or through Facebook.
Bait Bazi (Urdu: بیت بازی) is a verbal game and a genre of Urdu poetry played by composing verses of Urdu poems.
The members also write SF poems using other short poetry forms, such as waka, senryū, sijo, kanshi, etc.
Italian authorities hoped the filmmakers corrected the location errors in the novel, to limit the amount of explaining they will have to do for confused tourists.
The only known perfect pangrams of the English alphabet use abbreviations or other non-dictionary words, such as "Blowzy night-frumps vex'd Jack Q." or "Mr.
Edwin Fitzpatrick, the fictional Victorian palindromist to whom Bergerson credited many of the book's palindromes, proved to be a popular character among logologists.
National Scrabble Association The National Scrabble Association has published a set of rules for competitive Anagrams play in tournament setting.
Bengali Notable Bengali books of tautogram features include 'Keshta Kabir Kashtagulo', 'Keshta Kabir Conference' and 'Keshta Kabi' written by Iqbal Sardar Nazmul Kabir.
It aired on The Family Channel (now ABC Family) in 1994, replacing the interactive version of Trivial Pursuit.
Obbligato in music traditionally means a passage is "obligatory" but has also been used to mean "optional".
The magazine also covers closely related forms of wordplay, including calculator words and written charades.
When a player has no cards left in their hand, the round ends and the other players each tally the point value of the cards they hold.
Chicktionary was developed by Blockdot, a Dallas, Texas based developer of games and branded entertainment applications.
The individual can develop a mnemonic peg system in order to remember this association by thinking of a duck with a pot on its head.
Metaphysical poetry as a style was prevalent in the time of English playwright William Shakespeare, who admonished pretension with the phrase "Better a witty fool than a foolish wit".
Šatrovački was initially developed by Roma and various marginal subcultures and criminal groups in Yugoslavia, who employed it as a device of secret communication.
In 2017, a taxi driver filmed protesting against changes to taxi licensing in Melbourne, Australia gave his name as "Tsim Booky" to the Channel 9 Today Show; tsimbouki (τσιμπούκι) refers to fellatio in modern Greek.
For example, a crossword requires players to use clues to fill out a grid, with words intersecting at specific letters.
"Pê" dialect This "dialect" is more like Kongarian (a language game spoken with Hungarian) than the other "dialects" of Língua do Pê.
The humor derives from implying that an assumption (which might otherwise be expected to be controversial or at least non-evident) is so obvious as to be part of the lexicon.
For example, if Aesop's chosen letter was "O", then a player acting as a lion may safely say they have eaten a sheep, but will be punished if they have eaten a fox.
An eodermdrome is a form of word play wherein a word (or phrase) is formed from a set of letters (or words) in such a way that it has a non-planar spelling net.
Paper and pencil games In a paper and pencil game, players write their own words, often under specific constraints.
ŋ́gɔ́zɪ́ wṹ lêm "Ngozi died" becomes: ńtgɔ́tzɪ́ twṹ tlêm or ńtʊ́gɔ́tɪ́zɪ́ tṹwṹ tílèm Here we have some RTR and nasal vowels.
Vice News noticed a heavy police presence in the "high-crime" area where police vigorously pursue misdemeanor violations using tactics such as tailing drivers until they make a mistake, or searching a stopped vehicle for violations that may be unrelated to the reason for the police stop.
In this tradition, possessive pronouns are also capitalized if one is quoting God; "My" and "Mine" are capitalized, which should not be done when a human speaks.
Reception Evan Killham of GamesBeat gave the game a score of 85 out of 100, citing many positives but conceding the requirement for the game to be continually connected to the internet a problem.
A person is said to "suffer" from RAS syndrome when they redundantly use one or more of the words that make up an acronym or initialism with the abbreviation itself.
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
The interactive fiction game Ad Verbum, contains a series of rooms which are described and interacted with, in tautograms.
Awards In 2010, Anomia was the winner of the Mensa Select Game of the Year award and the American Specialty Toy Retailing Association Best Toy For Kids award.
A Slib of Lorey (translation: A bit of folklore) by Edna Sanders English to Boontling by Judy Belshe-Toernblom.
This contrasts with rhyming slang from which the rhyming portion has been clipped, which is part of the lexicon.
A section in the rulebook was titled "How to arrange a Lexicon drive" for the organisation and execution of a party or tournament based on Lexicon.
History Reputed to have originated as a Victorian word game, Anagrams has appeared in many versions since then.
Pictoword also won the Gold Winner awrd at Serious Play Conference Awards' "12 Serious Games Designed for Use in Grades K-12 Education" in 2022.
Green letters indicate that the letter is correctly placed, yellow letters indicate that it is in the wrong spot, and grey letters indicate that it is not in the word.
A team has the option before playing or passing on the first topic offered up to three times during the game.
Bush and Al Gore, two candidates for President of the United States, during the first presidential debate for election year 2000.
It has been said that, since the inhabitants of Totoi were good wood artisans who traded with their products, Totoiana could have been created so that other merchants could not understand them.
As a result, the reader is freed from the obsession to find the 'right answer' through speculation and instead can concentrate on enjoying nuances and being awed by how the slightest shift in perception creates a new meaning.
History Kangaroo words were originally popularized as a word game by Ben O'Dell in an article for The American Magazine, volume 151, during the 1950s, later reprinted in Reader's Digest.
However, George Cadar, a member of the Romanian Association of Semiotic Studies, claims to have recorded a similar form of speech far from Alba County, although he did not elaborate on this.
An entry unique among the group is worth 2 points, whereas an entry shared with another player scores 1 point.
Pat Myers of The Washington Post wrote that, despite being a lifelong promoter of The Washington Post, she found herself in "the thrall of the New York Times Spelling Bee game".
Description Acronymble is a game for 3–8 players that challenges players to move their token around a game board by creating acronyms (known as "noodles") from a random sequence of letters.
Taken together, it means "Symbols in the bowl-like depression on the edge of a long steep sea inlet confused an eccentric person".
A trial exhibit from the 2007 "Scooter" Libby trial included the term, in Libby's daily schedule for June 10, 2003, which showed that Libby had a 6:00 pm "Strategery Meeting" scheduled to last 90 minutes.
Words are required to be regular words of the language played by the participants, and not include proper names or trademarks.
The first published reference to it was in 1851, in Henry Mayhew's London Labour and the London Poor.
The poem was originally written by Hu Mingfu (胡明复) and published by linguist Yuen Ren Chao in Volume 11 of The Chinese Students's Monthly in 1916.
ngware becomes rengwa) See also Costermonger (British street vendors from whom back slang originates) Pig Latin References External links Victorian Web Article John Burkardt's list of back slang words at Florida State University
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
Sonia Sanchez's 1968 play The Bronx is Next includes a scene in which a White police officer arrests a Black person for running while Black.
Etymology Pseudonym comes from the Greek ψευδώνυμον pseudṓnymon 'false name', from ψεῦδος pseûdos 'lie, falsehood' and ὄνομα (ónoma) 'name'.
The longest German heterogram is "Heizölrückstoßabdämpfung" (heating oil recoil dampening) which uses 24 of the 30 letters in the German alphabet, as ä, ö, ü, and ß are considered distinct letters from a, o, u, and s in German.
The New York Times Spelling Bee, or simply the Spelling Bee, is a word game distributed in print and electronic format by The New York Times as part of The New York Times Games.
Some famous examples of that include Samuel Clemens, writing as Mark Twain, Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr.
British journalist Christopher Hitchens published an essay in The Nation in 2000 titled "Why Dubya Can't Read", writing: I used to have the job of tutoring a dyslexic child, and I know something about the symptoms.
Story Houry, Sam's Dot Publishing (an anthology of scifaiku) Dwarf Stars: 30 Stellar Short-Short Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Poems from 2004, edited by Deborah P.
Longest examples In the book Language on Vacation: An Olio of Orthographical Oddities, Dmitri Borgmann tries to find the longest such word.
Some common examples are gros ([ɡʁo], "fat") which becomes gravos ([ɡʁavo]); bonjour ([bɔ̃ʒuʁ], "hello"'), which becomes bavonjavour ([bavɔ̃ʒavuʁ]); and pénible ([penibl], "annoying"), becomes pavénaviblave ([pavenaviblav]).
Turn-taking In some editions of the game, such as the Milton Bradley and Selchow & Righter versions, only the player whose turn it is may form words.
They also have a choice between the conventional "WordZap" mode and the "WordHai" mode, which permits players to create 3-letter words from a set of 21 tiles.
For instance, consider a hypothetical news headline: "The White House loses its balance." In this case, "The White House" is used metonymically to represent the U.S.
He also suggests an alternative term, asogram, to avoid confusion with lines of constant value such as contour lines, but uses isogram in the article itself.
In 2008, Parker Brothers released a self-contained version of the game with the dice sealed inside a plastic unit and featuring an integrated timer.
(e.g.: If a contestant guessed all three words in part one and there was 7 seconds left, each word would be worth $110) Naming all three passwords this time added $10 for each second left.
CBS replaced Heart on March 26, 1973, with the youth-oriented The Young and the Restless, causing Password and Jeopardy!
The metre of Mickiewicz's sonnet is the Polish alexandrine (tridecasyllable, in Polish "trzynastozgłoskowiec"): 13(7+6) and its rhymes are feminine: [anu] and [odzi].
The word redrum (i.e., "red rum") is used this way for murder in the Stephen King novel The Shining (1977) and its film adaptation (1980).
Examples The English language has a very large number of single-word anadromes, by some counts more than 900.
One of Harris' trademark gigantic synth hooks doesn't hurt its digestibility, either." Robbie Daw of Idolator viewed the track as "a shameless bid at nabbing an 'Umbrella'/'California Gurls'/'Blurred Lines'-like Song Of The Summer anthem".
In Monty Python's Life of Brian, there is an extensive use of Dog Latin as a tool for creating gag names.
The "father" of the Irish bull is often said to be Sir Boyle Roche, who once asked "Why should we put ourselves out of our way to do anything for posterity, for what has posterity ever done for us?".
Sallows has made an extensive computer search and conjectures that there exist only three pure (i.e., no dummy text) English reflexicons.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
The major system is more complicated to learn than simple rhymes or alphabetic pegs, because it associates numbers 0-9 with a specific letter or sound, then larger numbers can combine to create words out of the sounds.
Some assert that the jargon was created by the women, children, and young men in the hop fields and sheep-shearing sheds as a means of recreation, and that it spread through the community as the children continued using it when they grew up.
Mercer made many palindrome submissions to Notes and Queries but did not always claim authorship even when he had indeed penned the palindromes.
Published by JudyBelshe@aol.com ISBN 978-0-9655530-2-5 External links Boontling: An American Lingo History of Boontling at the Anderson Valley Museum Mendocino Middle School Boontling Dictionary Haddock, Vicki.
Q-Less is a single-player word puzzle game in which the player rolls 12 dice and uses the resulting letters to form connected words in a crossword-style arrangement.
A vocabularyclept poem is a poem which is formed by taking the words of an existing poem and rearranging them into a new work of literature.
Similarly, in the episode "Donnie Fatso", a call comes through for a "Yuri Nator" (urinator) from Fat Tony, which is revealed to be an actual bar patron which was misunderstood as a prank call.
In March 2019, criminologist Scot Wortley released a study that found that the RCMP in suburban Halifax, Nova Scotia performed street checks five times more often on Black people than white people.
The poem can be interpreted as an objection to the romanization of Literary Chinese, demonstrating the author's critique of proposals to replace Chinese characters with Latin letters – a move that could potentially lead to the marginalization or elimination of traditional Chinese script.
Origin Balderdash is based on an earlier game, Fictionary, of essentially similar gameplay, varying in that obscure words are found in an unabridged dictionary instead of the definitions and meanings provided on cards.
See also Wordle Natural language processing Semantics Word2vec References External links Official website
Two teams compete over multiple rounds to reach 60 points by guessing items listed on a Topic Card within a time limit.
Personal names (Mark/mark, Will/will), place-names (China/china, Turkey/turkey), company names (Fiat/fiat), names of publications (Time/time) etc.
[Italics in original] Bullinger gives the following example: one may say to another, “You are like a beast.” This would be simile, tamely stating a fact.
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
Other uses Sarah Palin used the term in a 2010 interview with Bill O'Reilly on his television show, The O'Reilly Factor.
Gameplay Each player is dealt ten cards from a pool of 52, each depicting a letter and a point value.
Some common examples are Pig Latin; the Gibberish family, prevalent in the United States and Sweden; and Verlan, spoken in France.
The game has been used in schools to simulate the spread of gossip and its possible harmful effects.
Variants on the alternade include the rebade (a hybrid of a rebus and an alternade), and the subade.
Coxeter cites Vish in his discussion of definitions in mathematics: Vish illustrates the important principle that any definition of a word must inevitably involve other words, which require further definitions.
A common difficulty with language games is that they are usually passed down orally; while written translations can be made, they are often imperfect, thus spelling can vary widely.
There are other examples of vowelless sentences in Czech and Slovak, such as prd krt skrz drn, zprv zhlt hrst zrn, meaning 'a mole farted through grass, having swallowed a handful of grains'.
In popular culture A variant of Ubbi Dubbi was popularized as the signature speech pattern of the cartoon character Mushmouth from the animated series Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids (1972), voiced by Bill Cosby.
There are four possible cards: The usual play Nonsense Word: The players must add a nonsense word to their noodle.
See also Strč prst skrz krk, Czech and Slovak tongue twister and shibboleth References External links ""Chrząszcz brzmi w trzcinie" - J.
Bush's statements were also notorious for their ability to state the opposite of what he intended, including his remarks on the estate tax: "I'm not sure 80% of people get the death tax.
When users believe that they will be rewarded by acquiring a favorable reputation, they are more likely to behave in accordance with the site's policies.
Greg Barlow, the president of the company, stated that the game was "a favorite" within the staff, adding that it would "make a great addition" to the website's selection of games.
Like his earlier single "Feel So Close" and his later single "My Way", Harris returns as a vocalist on "Summer".
Players take turns forming words on the board or, instead of playing a word, may also choose to swap tiles with the pool of currently unused tiles or pass their turn.
An essential feature is the use of full cardinal number names such as "one", "two", etc., in recording character counts.
The root appears 4 times in Genesis 42:7-8 (Jonathan Sacks, The Koren Shalem Humash with Rashi and Onkelos.
Gameplay The game is played by one player from each of the two teams drawing a card (one between the two of them) and looking at the five words on the card.
If a complete word is formed in this way, the player who called the final letter of it loses the round.
A rerelease by Mill Creek, which acquired the rights to the Fremantle game-show DVD sets following BCI's collapse, corrected this error.
It was not a "true" one-syllable article in that some characters were not homophonic, leading Chao to modify the poem over time, leading to its canonical form where every syllable uses /shi/.
The game also ends if three scoreless moves (i.e., passes or tile exchanges) are played in succession, unless the score is zero-zero.
Historic rhymes One example of a historic rhyme (i.e., one that was a true rhyme but is now an eye rhyme) is the following: The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
Other examples are the YAML language, which stands for "YAML ain't markup language" and PHP language meaning "PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor".
The rules used by experienced players can be more stringent, such as allowing the use of only one poet's verses or of one theme.
An example is trousers and its diphthong, ou, which is replaced with wo in the back slang version reswort.
Hans Reichenbach used a similar sentence ("John where Jack had...") in his 1947 book Elements of Symbolic Logic as an exercise for the reader, to illustrate the different levels of language, namely object language and metalanguage.
Jamieson Cox of Time magazine felt that the song "doesn't have much lyrical meat on its bones, but coming on the heels of one of the most severe winters in recent memory, listeners are likely hungry for anything that suggests a warmer, sunnier season.
References Bibliography Aldofre e Nigiova Di Nobru, "Il Riocontra illutostra", Giulio è in Audi editore, 2017 See also Jargon Verlan Vesre Furbesco Farfallino alphabet
Notable games In 2008, 1,330 children and celebrities set a world record for the game of Telephone involving the most people.
The player who passed then flips the timer, and the other player has one minute to give clues to their team, to try to get them to guess each of the five words on the card, where each word in the giver's clues counts as one of the words bid.
The game was nominated for "Best Educational Game" and "Best Puzzle Game" at The Independent Game Developers' Association Awards 2018.
It concluded not only that Borgmann's etymology may be incorrect, but also that the hill does not even exist.
Therefore, the passage is barely comprehensible when read aloud in modern Mandarin without context, but easier to understand when read in other Sinitic languages, such as Cantonese.
Other recognition A copy of Buyword is held in the "Sid Sackson Portal" collection of the Strong National Museum of Play (object 107.873).
In popular culture A game of Anagrams is played in the Alfred Hitchcock 1941 thriller film Suspicion.
Rules may permit or forbid proper nouns (such as names, places, or brands) or other types of words (such as slang).
Rombauer, Captain Blood Returns Raphael Sabatini, Flush Virginia Woolf, Paradise Lost John Milton, Clans of the Alphane Moon Philip K.
Discerning the various layers of meanings would be a challenge to the reader, who has to focus on and keep turning over the passage in his mind, applying his erudition and imagination to perceive alternative meanings.
Price died in 1990, and three years later, Sloan and Stern sold Price Stern Sloan, including Mad Libs, to the former Putnam Berkley Group, which is now known as Penguin Random House.
The word anadrome comes from Greek anádromos (ἀνάδρομος), "running backward", and can be compared to palíndromos (παλίνδρομος), "running back again" (whence palindrome).
A twin kangaroo is a kangaroo word that contains two joey words (for example: container features both tin and can, magister features both master and mister).
Lewis Corner of Digital Spy rated "Summer" three-and-a-half out of five stars, calling it "a bright and vibrant banger destined to soundtrack the warmer months".
Even though vesre has spread to other countries, and can be heard in Peru, Chile and Ecuador, Spanish speakers outside the Río de la Plata area are usually less inclined to use it.
In the days of the Stuarts it was very popular, and is frequently mentioned in the writings of the time.
Neither Piron, nor Marmontel, nor La Motte disdained this ingenious exercise, and early in the 19th century the fashion was revived.
According to the Financial Times, the phrase "mental losses" seemed to be a malapropism of "missile launches".
Charms include: Word Check - ensure all words are legal prior to declaring Bananas Smart Dump and Smart Peel - place Dumped and Peeled tiles automatically to form a word, if the opportunity exists Mini Dump - only one tile is dumped, as opposed to three.
A former Moroccan soldier, M'barek Daoudi, who served more than 33 years in the Moroccan army and retired in 2008, said in an interview that he witnessed the execution of two Sahrawi women in the Amgala area on 12 February 1976.
Conflicts In 1735 and 1736, at the start of the salmon season, there were again insults thrown and mass struggles between the fishermen of Neudorf, Hüningen and Kleinhüningen.
During the meeting, the Ethiopian camp was flown over by Italian reconnaissance aircraft which made some low-flying flights for intimidating purposes.
Iptihar Abduresit The Congress also maintains representatives in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Kyrgyzstan, Japan, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
The Miss Stone Affair (Bulgarian: Афера „Мис Стоун“, Macedonian: „Афера Мис Стон“) was the kidnapping of American Protestant missionary Ellen Maria Stone and her pregnant Bulgarian fellow missionary and friend Katerina Cilka by the pro-Bulgarian Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization.
Part 7 was succeeded by the Terrorism (Northern Ireland) Act 2006, which in turn was succeeded by the Justice and Security (Northern Ireland) Act 2007.
Three Stars There is three stars on top of the emblem which represent three independent states which existed in or throughout the East Turkestan territory.
Dissenting Opinions Vice-President Badawi, Judge Klaestad (with Judge ad hoc Fernandes), and Indian Judge ad hoc M.
An area of 544 square kilometers (210 sq mi) was affected, including all or part of the German border districts of Bitburg, Our, Saarburg, and Prüm, the population of which was 31,188 people.
… [W]hen the Dancing Molly got safely out the group of Virginians chivalrously gave three cheers for the pirate's wife and daughters.
Per Roosevelt's request, Universal Pictures edited the sequence out of its newsreels to quell a political crisis.
Radio Prague, 4 October 2004 Souboj nad Železnou oponou (Duel Above The Iron Curtain), 2000 article by Tomáš Soušek (in Czech) 23 March 1953 article from Life Magazine, pages 29 – 31, (via Google Books)
Fourteen policemen died at the scene and two died on the way to the hospital; another 16 policemen were hurt, Xinhua state news agency reported.
Casualties and aftermath The retreat of the Polisario forces was met with fierce resistance from Mauritanian troops, particularly near the settlement of Bennichab on June 9.
The fishermen pursued the boat, attacked it with stones, and finally set two fishermen to stand guard with spears while the others robbed the Antelope party.
Two bodies were recovered, thirteen more persons were declared missing and presumed dead several days later.
Prelude After the end of the Second World War, the United States created military bases in West Germany, and their military planes often flew over the territory of Czechoslovakia.
In a February 2025 poll of 871 registered voters in Florida who were active by the University of North Florida found that 58% of overall respondents opposed renaming the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of America, 31% supported it, 10% said they were not sure and 1% refused to answer the question.
A US intelligence monitoring group stated that the ETIM planned to carry out terrorist attacks during the week before the opening ceremonies of the Olympic games.
Police investigators reported that they had recovered documents calling for a holy war, a homemade firearm, and nine explosives, whose design was similar to the explosives found in a raid on an ETIM facility in January 2007.
At this moment, the two forces engaged each other with heavy gunfire, and the Cypriots opened fire on the Egyptian C-130H aircraft with a 106 mm anti-tank M40 recoilless rifle, striking it in the nose and killing the three crew on board.
Criticism expressed that Bildt did not put sufficient pressure on the Ethiopian government to release Schibbye and Persson.
Dredging by Nicaragua within the San Juan River itself was allowed to continue, as Nicaragua has sovereignty over the river proper.
Anderson documents a fourth account by a Virginian deserter, named Denis Kaninguen, and speculates that Kaninguen was one of Tanacharison's followers.
It subsequently split into the modern states of Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, North Macedonia and Montenegro between 1991 and 2006.
Though America and China were allies, skirmishes between armed Chinese and foreigners became more and more common and would continue long after World War I.
With the transformation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia into Serbia and Montenegro and the dissolution of that country in 2006, Serbia is considered its legal successor.
20th century Since then, the Chams rebelled a number of times against Vietnamese domination, with the most important rebellions occurring in the 19th century with the Katip Sumat uprising, the first and only jihadist war in Vietnamese history to date, and the Ja Thak Wa uprising.
Two other Croatian-Australian members of the HRB had been recruited for the Bugojno incursion but police action prevented their participation.
Many scholars maintain that Ming China (1364–1644) possessed no administrative control in Tibet, while some scholars indicated that Imperial Chinese superiority continued after Yuan and lasted until Qing.
The Court held that there is no source of international law that explicitly authorises or prohibits the threat or use of nuclear weapons but such threat or use must be in conformity with the UN Charter and principles of international humanitarian law.
Background to Conflict, Barnes & Noble Books (ISBN 0-389-20148-0) Diego Aguirre, Jose Ramón (1991), Guerra en el Sáhara, Ed.
The Young Kashgar Party (Chinese: 青年喀什噶爾黨) was a Turkic nationalist Uighur political party which existed from 1933 to 1934.
WTO dispute resolution favored Canada, both in a 1997 panel decision and in a subsequent decision by the WTO Appellate Body.
It is marked by the Philippines publicizing of altercations involving China and Filipinos including fishermen and personnel of coast guard and the navy.
UK and NI government discussions about name change Ahead of the renaming of the Irish Free State to simply Ireland in 1937, the British Prime Minister and the Home Secretary discussed the matter with the Prime Minister of Northern Ireland, Lord Craigavon when he was in London in July 1937.
16257, issued in 2013 for more than €1.5 billion, which ordered Congo to pay for public works contracts dating back to the 1980s.
Settlement On 16 February 2026, four Chagossians (including Misley Mandarin, acting as self-declared First Minister of a Chagossian Government-in-Exile) landed on Île du Coin, becoming the first Chagossians to reside on the islands since the expulsions of the 1960s and 1970s.
The Chechens suffered another heavy defeat, and Gelayev decided to lead his men to take shelter in the Pankisi Gorge, 25 miles south of the Russian-Georgian border.
See also List of International Court of Justice cases References External links Case concerning the Application of the Convention of 1902 governing the Guardianship of Infants (Netherlands v.
On October 1, 1955, Chinese Communist Party Chairman Mao Zedong designated Xinjiang a "Uyghur Autonomous Region", creating a regionwide Uyghur identity which overtook Uyghurs' traditionally local and oasis-based identities.
The declaration became an issue when the question was raised whether the statement was binding on Norway.
Renaming in English Change in official English spelling The renaming of cities is often specifically from English to Indian English in connection with that dialect's internal reforms.
The official title of the case was Australia — Measures Affecting Importation of Salmon, Dispute DS18.
The Association of Catfish Farmers of America represented these American domestic producers to file lawsuits against the mass imports of Vietnamese catfish starting in 2001.
response The US responded by activating Task Force 71 (TF-71) to protect future flights over those international waters.
By this time, the fighters were running out of fuel and, as the defence system dictated, started to land at the nearest available airfield.
Most Spanish language placenames in the Falkland Islands are quite different in origin from their English language equivalents, and many have religious resonances.
With dusk approaching the Marines began to withdraw and again came under fire from the VC, the Marines then called in an artillery and mortar barrage and four 105mm shells and 21 81mm mortar rounds hit the VC positions.
Rebiya Kadeer, a Uyghur human rights activist, called for an independent UN investigation into the raid, while Alim Seytoff, executive chairman of the World Uighur Congress, claimed the Chinese government has yet to produce evidence to substantiate the camp's connections to terrorism.
In mid-April 1949, Belgium surprisingly waived any interest in most of the previously claimed areas.
In 1941, the government published a German edition of Finnlands Lebensraum, a book supporting the idea of Greater Finland, with the intention of annexing Eastern Karelia and Ingria.
The kidnapping was successful, but was witnessed by Dikko's secretary, who notified the authorities.
Frederick Steinbeck, suffering of his gunshot wounds, remained immobile, and shortly died from his wounds.
Facts In 1987–1988, the United States destroyed three offshore oil platforms owned by the National Iranian Oil Company as a part of Operation Praying Mantis in retaliation for the collision of the USS Samuel B.
He announced that Guinea’s “deepest desire [was] to remain in the franc zone,” with freedom of capital movement between the two countries.
The phrase "peace, order and good government", they thought, should be understood as referring not just to the inhabitants of BIOT but to the governance of the region.
The United States would play a significant role in Japan's acceptance of a global moratorium on commercial whaling due to its domestic laws.
The British government responded by sending HMS Endurance with 22 Royal Marines to expel the Argentines, but they were held off to avoid increasing the tension.
See also First East Turkestan Republic Second East Turkestan Republic Timur Beg Young Bukharians Young Khivans Young Turks == References ==
The United Kingdom claimed that Jersey had historically exercised legal and administrative jurisdiction over them.
The wall was built in six stages, and the area behind the wall was expanded from a small area near Morocco in the north to most of the western and central part of the country gradually.
However, the actual control of Morocco covers only about 80% of Western Sahara, the portion west of the Berm wall.
Sir Julian Pauncefote, the British ambassador at Washington, having failed to obtain an assurance that British vessels would not be interfered with, laid a formal protest before the United States government.
It has been called the "Jacuzzi of Despair" because it is warmer at 18 °C (65 °F) compared to the surrounding water at 4 °C (39 °F).
The Moroccan Army's 6th Motorized Infantry Regiment, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Mohamed Ghoujdami, was called in as reinforcements but did not arrive until after the cessation of hostilities.
Protests broke out in Shanghai, which ultimately forced the Chinese government to make an apology and pay $25,000 to the United States.
In December 2015, Ecuador stated that it had reached a deal with Sweden which would allow him to be interviewed in the embassy.
Before, the exact route of the barrier had not been determined, and it had been alleged by opponents that the barrier route would encircle the Samarian highlands of the West Bank, separating them from the Jordan valley.
History According to its former members, the Uyghurstan People's Party was founded in or a few years before 1967 or 1968.
He was then dismissed from university but completed his physics degree via independent study, and went on to receive a master's degree in Politics and Sociology from Gazi University in Turkey and a degree in Computer Science in Munich, Germany.
All of these rebellions were eventually suppressed by the Vietnamese government, and the Cham population was significantly reduced.
Marines had been working to disarm illegal checkpoints set up by KLA fighters who were slow to comply with the demilitarization agreement.
Incidents The incidents embraced two regions in Nagorno-Karabakh (Tartar Rayon, Agdam Rayon) and one region out of it (Goranboy Rayon).
However, proper documentation that would have ensured that the cargo could not be inspected was not provided.
A large number of dual names have been conferred not by the NZGB, but were negotiated as part of Treaty of Waitangi claims settlements and then enacted by Parliament.
In 2021, the New Zealand Geographic Board voted to standardise the orthography of dual place names, and is in the process of updating names which use parentheses to the more common forward slash.
The Court's decision reflects a growing reliance on international law to confront the climate crisis, alongside similar proceedings at the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.
Under the agreement, Morocco annexed the northern two-thirds of Western Sahara as its Southern Provinces, and Mauritania annexed the southern third as Tiris al-Gharbiyya.
On this issue, the court found that "the civilian population affected by the present conflict is extremely vulnerable.
Uyghur linguist Ibrahim Muti'i opposed the Second East Turkestan Republic and the Ili Rebellion because it was backed by the Soviets and Stalin.
Former ETR education minister Seypidin Azizi and former ETNA officer Batur Asharkhinov, both speaking in retrospect decades after the ETR's dissolution, gave conflicting eyewitness accounts of the colour of the star and crescent.
The report also noted that "Russian claims the missile had been fired by Ukrainian soldiers and that a Ukrainian fighter jet had been flying close to the passenger jet were false".
The Viking was on a scheduled commercial flight from London via Hamburg to RAF Gatow in the British Sector of Berlin.
The Jean Baptiste Say was hit several times by cannon fire and the captain was forced to ground her on Laem Lamphu Rai.
More than 2,000 people were forcefully relocated to Mauritius between 1967 and 1973, so that Diego Garcia could become a United States military airbase.
Many Chinese geographical entities (and associated entities named after geographical names) thus had their English names changed.
Six Moroccan observation posts or bases were taken by the Polisario, the Moroccan soldiers were surprised, but the attack was finally repulsed and the Polisario suffered heavy losses because of the Moroccan air force.
Duterte previously insisted that publicizing China's actions would provoke it to be more aggressive.
As of 2011, the Section 44 powers effectively no longer exist (see above), and police must "reasonably" suspect an individual of involvement in terrorism before intervening.
Accordingly, at 15:00 Armenian troops allegedly opened fire from Agdam Rayon, killing one Azeri soldier.
Reception, awards and festival screenings Stealing a Nation was awarded the 2004 Royal Television Society Award in the category "Single Documentary - General".
The Arabic word Shaṭṭ (شط) meaning delta, could also be an etymology of Chittagong, the Ganges delta, Shaṭṭ Al-Ghānj (شط الغانج).
The Morrison incident (モリソン号事件, Morison-gō Jiken) of 1837 occurred when the American merchant ship Morrison, headed by Charles W.
The T-33 air incident was just one of at least eight that occurred between Albania and foreign powers from 1948 to the late 1970s.
Travellers can cross the Malaysia–Singapore border for the purposes of family, business, and recreational trips.
The examination and identification of the bodies was conducted at the Netherlands Army medical regiment training facility in Hilversum and was coordinated by a Dutch forensic team.
The document included information on crimes committed against Serbs in Gospić, Sisak, Pakrac, Karlovac, Osijek, Paulin Dvor and during the operations Operation Flash, Operation Storm and Operation Medak Pocket.
Former militant leader François Sargentini claimed that Aleria deepened the division between autonomists and independentists and communist activist Dominique Bucchini said that the incident "worked like a trap", diverting efforts and highlighting excesses, like xenophobia.
Febiger, in order to visit the scene of the wreck and to try (unsuccessfully) to get foreign officials in Taiwanfu (Taiwan's capital), where he arrived on 18 April) to act.
Unanimously, related environmental treaties such as the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and the Convention to Combat Desertification also impose relevant obligations to protect the climate.
Abu Hafs al-Urduni (1973–2006), third Emir of the Mujahideen in Chechnya, was likely the "Abu Hafsi" reported to have been "running financial operations in the gorge," and to have supervised the building of a hospital for fighters, but to have escaped to Chechnya before being apprehended.
2nd General Assembly From 24 to 27 November 2008, the World Uyghur Congress has successfully held its Second Assembly in Munich, Germany.
Under the JCPOA, some of the sanctions against Iran were lifted in exchange for Tehran accepting some limitations on its nuclear program.
Earle, accompanied by Clarence Miller, met with Zaragoza who apologized, explaining his men were "evidently ignorant of the first laws of war." Within an hour of their arrest, the whaleboat had returned to Dolphin.
According to the Prime Minister of Lebanon, Najib Mikati, the soldier will be prosecuted by the Defense Ministry for his actions.
After several warnings, four of the activists were arrested by the Spanish regulars who guard the territory, three of the assailants managed to escape to Moroccan territory.
During the battle, two UNIFIL peacekeepers were killed: Stephen Griffin, a 21-year-old private from the 46th Irish Battalion (and a native of Rahoon in County Galway), and Sevati Sovonaivalu of the Fijian Army.
Eventually, the hunters who were involved in the fight were told to report to Flagstaff for a hearing in court, which they refused to do at first.
Judgment On 1 July 1952 the ICJ ruled that it had no jurisdiction in the issue of Mr Ambatielos' trial, but had jurisdiction to decide whether or not the UK is obliged to enter into an arbitration process under the Greco-British Treaty of Commerce and Navigation.
The school had had an obligation to report the allegations to the police prior to arranging her departure.
The Attack on Lebouirate was a significant military engagement that took place during the ongoing Western Sahara conflict between the Moroccan government and the Polisario Front.
11 February: The SPLA stated it had launched bombardments on Moroccan positions located in the Grarat Alfarsik and Udey Damràn regions, in the Mahbes sector.
In the book he explained that the American flag had been fired upon by a foreign government and that the next contacts with Japan "had better be left to the stronger and wiser action of the American Government".
There were two major issues under Article 36 that were being disputed by the two parties: the question of the nationalities of the individuals being executed as well as the meaning of the phrase "without delay".
See also East Turkestan independence movement East Turkestan Liberation Organization 2008 Uyghur unrest Politics of the People's Republic of China == References ==
A checkpoint was set up by the Gardaí and the Irish Army on Flagstaff Road in the townland of Cornamucklagh, some 700 metres inside County Louth in the Republic.
The raid also resulted in the death of one Chinese paramilitary officer, Huang Qiang, age 21, and the injury of another officer.
At least two shots from fortress hit the Inconstant, but more effective action was prevented by a lack of training at the fort.
Marine Corps Sergeant Onnie Clem later reported: "Up on the bridge there was a machine gun spraying the hatch.
Muslim ethnic groups in different regions are treated differently by the Chinese government with regard to religious freedom.
Murphy's bombs were responsible for at least a few deaths on the Mexican side of the border, but nobody was killed on the American side.
Geography The Gulf of Mexico's eastern, northern, and northwestern shores lie along the US states of Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas.
In March 2025, the foreign ministers of the G7 countries issued a condemnation of China's "illicit, provocative, coercive and dangerous actions" and formally supported the results of the 2016 South China Sea Arbitration ruling that favored the Philippines.
In May she stood guard off Pointe a Pitre, Guadeloupe, trying to keep the Vichy French government from getting Jeanne d'Arc to sea.
This financial crisis was discussed at the meeting of the leadership of IMRO in Kyustendil, Bulgaria, that summer.
Activists distributing leaflets often faced resistance and attacks from unknown persons, private security or police officers.
Surprisingly, there were also "anti-aircraft ramps," although these were not utilized during the raid.
The court explained that Article IX applied because Russia and Ukraine had a dispute over whether genocide is occurring in Donetsk and Luhansk.
The resulting emissions and activity would be recorded by Project Ibex aircraft on the Iranian side of the border.
Event Dubbed "Grand Slam", the flight was to leave the base in Peshawar and overfly the Soviet Union.
Prior to travelling to Korea, the ship's crew purchased stocks of cotton textiles, tinware, mirrors and glassware from British trading firm Messrs.
The court found that in the 1971 ordinance, the Commissioner had exceeded his authority, and the ordinance was made ultra vires.
Curran was released on January 11, 1958, while the plane was placed in the Gjirokastër Fortress museum.
This refusal led to the ILO's supervisory functions, in particular the Committee of Experts, ceasing to operate properly for more than a decade.
The communications that this activity generated within the National Security network were monitored by the EC-121's parent unit, VQ-1, which sent Deep Sea 129 a "Condition 3" alert by radio at 13:44, indicating it might be under attack.
While they had both lived in the United States since they were four and five, respectively, neither had obtained U.S.
An article from the Geopolitical Monitor argues that Malaysia's recent behavior could be a sign for the beginning of a foreign policy shift, in which Malaysia has shifted from appeasement politics to a non-alignment policy when dealing with China.
However, the Greek Justice Minister refused to grant the required permission to enforce the judgment in Greece.
See also Sahrawi refugees References Further reading Hodges, Tony (1983), Western Sahara: The Roots of a Desert War, Lawrence Hill Books (ISBN 0-88208-152-7) Thompson, Virginia and Adloff, Richard (1980), The Western Saharans.
The 2011 Incheon fishing incident occurred on December 12, 2011, at the island Socheongdo in Incheon, South Korea.
The Moroccan government’s Green March took place on 6 November 1975, in which 350,000 unarmed Moroccans converged on the city of Tarfaya in southern Morocco and waited for a signal from King Hassan II of Morocco to cross the border in a peaceful march.
Two unidentified vessels then arrived in the area, apparently to rescue the disabled Taiwanese vessel, prompting MCS-3001 to disengage and leave.
The Kyrgyz rebels, led by Id Mirab, revolted in the Tian Shan mountains as part of the wider Kumul Rebellion in Xinjiang, until they were quickly defeated by government forces led by Ma Shaowu, the Hui military commander of Kashgar, with some minor assistance of the Soviet Union.
On 12 February 1976 the Moroccan army occupied Al Mahbes, a community 50 kilometres (31 mi) from the Algerian border that commanded the route to Tindouf.
The bombing, although unintentional, is noted for being the first aerial bombardment of the continental United States by a foreign power in history.
The implications of the ruling are that it shows that the US and European Union have used loopholes and creative accounting to continue dumping products on developing markets, hurting impoverished developing country farmers.
According to some accounts, on November 6, Montgomery was caught trying to steal some ponies from a group of Navajo hunters so three of the natives assaulted him in the usual manner.
Pakistan's claims were dropped, without recourse to appeal, and the outcome was seen as a decision highly favourable to India.
Relations with Angola During the movement for Angolan independence in the 1960s, the situation became more complex.
Strategy The transparency initiative seeks to frame China as a "bully" of its smaller neighboring countries in the context of the South China Sea dispute.
Under the Ming tributary system, Japan could present tribute to the Chinese imperial court and be rewarded in the form of gifts by the emperor.
The Pakistani government alleges that he is a spy for the Research and Analysis Wing, India's intelligence agency, and was arrested in the Pakistani province of Balochistan.
On 27 December 2011, a court in Ethiopia sentenced the Swedish journalists to 11 years in prison on charges of supporting terrorism after they illegally entered the country with Somalis.
L5 followed suit and both submarines dispatched a boat with one officer and one sailor each to go aboard the burning Irene.
They have been described as well organized, experienced and as having an important role in offensives against President Bashar al-Assad's forces in Syria's northern regions.
The Lobster War (also known as the Lobster Operation; Portuguese: Guerra da Lagosta; French: Conflit de la langouste) was a dispute over spiny lobsters that occurred from 1961 to 1963 between Brazil and France.
The al-Hamma Incident (Hebrew: תקרית אל-חמה) refers to an event on 4 April 1951 that resulted in the death of seven IDF soldiers at the hands of Syrian military forces.
Vietnam War Student North Vietnamese MiG pilots were sent to China and the Soviet Union for up to three years for training.
The Israeli version was that Syrian troops had entered Al-Hamma and disarmed the local police before firing on the Israeli police.
In June, 1817, Gregor MacGregor, a Scottish adventurer styling himself the "Brigadier General of the United Provinces of New Granada and Venezuela, and General-in-Chief of the Armies of the Two Floridas", came to Amelia Island.
The former master of the captured Texan ship Colombia was on board the Montezuma throughout the incident and he claimed that the Mexicans opened fire after the Ingham discharged a lee gun as a signal to communicate.
All I had was a loincloth." 15 or 20 others were recaptured and taken aboard one of the torpedo boats, where they were executed by firing squad as punishment for trying to escape.
According to the survey, 30% did not know, 28% of Israelis opposed any annexation and 15% supported annexing Area C alone.
The ministerial appointees include two persons recommended by the Minister of Māori Development and representatives of Te Rūnanga o Ngāi Tahu, the New Zealand Geographical Society, the Federated Mountain Clubs of NZ, and Local Government New Zealand.
After the withdrawal of Yugoslav troops, KFOR was tasked with ensuring security, facilitating the return of refugees, and preventing reprisals between ethnic Serbs and Albanians.
That was codified by administrative order in September 2012, which mandated use of that term by departments, subdivisions, agencies and instrumentalities of the Philippine government.
Swedish authorities overrode the Dutch decisions and placed the child under a protective public care order, based on the fact that Marie was residing in Sweden with maternal grandparents.
Equipment Airbases involved were operated jointly by the CIA and IIAF and protected by land mines and razor wire.
See also United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon Israel–Hezbollah conflict (2023–present) 2026 Lebanon war References == External links ==
Pavlović was released from prison in 1990 and was killed in controversial circumstances during the Croatian War of Independence on 18 September 1991.
With him arrived another prominent Uyghur leader Mahmut Muhiti from eastern Xinjiang (Turpan, Kumul) who had agreed to become Minister of Defense in the TIRET Government, accepting the offer of Prime Minister Sabit Damolla.
Notes and references Books Affairs, United States Congress House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on International Security and Scientific (1980).
In 1916, in the midst of the National Protection War, Mongol prince Babojab launched an attempt for Manchu and Mongol independence.
Furthermore, the statement also called all parties to maintain peace, stability and trade in accordance with the UNCLOS declarations, which means that Malaysia will continue the diplomatic approach with other states, including China.
The Air battle over Merklín was an air-to-air engagement between Czechoslovak and USAFE air units over the Czech village of Merklín, in the Bohemian Forest, on 10 March 1953.
Background This battle followed the first battle of Amgala, which pitted the Moroccan army against the Algerian army for the first time from 27 to 29 January 1976.
After the opinion on preliminary matters was handed down, Nauru and Australia negotiated a settlement.
beef." "We are hopeful that Japan’s decision will help lead other markets around the world toward science-based policies," Perdue added.
After that groundwater levels on many places reached pre-reservoir filling levels, on some places reached even higher.
Incident Seven Chinese fishing boats were spotted by a patrol boat from the South Korea Coast Guard.
In addition to offering a right of return for the Sahrawi refugees, the Sahrawi government in exile expressed a willingness to grant Sahrawi citizenship to Moroccan settlers and their descendants in a prospective independent state.
The National Army was inactive in Kashgar and Aksu from 1946 to 1949 until the arrival of People's Liberation Army (PLA) units in Xinjiang.
It called on both States to negotiate in good faith to complete the objectives of the 1977 Budapest Treaty, which the Court declared was still in force, while taking account of the factual situation that had developed since 1989.
Thus, highlighting the Philippines' attempt to offset the disparity in capabilities it has compared to China.
In 2022, UHRP supported the Uyghur Policy Act, which would have created a special coordinator for Uyghur Issues at the U.S.
It remains the only case in which a Convention drafted by the Hague Conference on Private International Law was the principal subject of interpretation by a court with worldwide jurisdiction.
The reparation should thereby consist of a restitution in kind, or if this is impossible, the payment of a sum that corresponds to the value as compensation.
Brazil claimed that lobsters are like oysters in that they cling to the bottom of the ocean and so were part of the continental shelf.
While Pakistan said that the plane was unarmed and the debris was within Pakistani territory, India maintained that warnings had been given to the Atlantic and that its flight trajectory meant it could have fallen on either side of the border.
The Esmeralda's captain was ordered to stop by any means an eventual annexation of Panama by the United States.
Facts A Greek shipowner, Nicolas Eustache Ambatielos, had commissioned nine ships at an agreed price and delivery date from the British government.
In this proposal, known as the Agreement of Benicàssim (Acord de Benicàssim), both the left-wing and right-wing parties reached a consensus regarding the symbols of the territory and soon-to-be autonomous community of Spain.
Following the fall of South Vietnam and intensifying persecution, many Chams resettled in the United States and sought to revive and protect the Cham culture while dealing with a much larger and more populous Vietnamese American community that was not fond of Champa's independence movement either.
Due to the blockade, Captain Downes was afraid his ship would be seized as it was illegally carrying over a million dollars in Spanish gold, something Cochrane's spies had informed him of some time prior.
Upon reaching the Sabine River, Jones patrolled the area for a few days for slavers before crossing into Mexican waters disguised as a merchantman.
This led initially to a relatively rapid fall in the lake level over hundreds of years to then continue falling at a lower pace.
In the last two decades of the 20th century, Uyghurs in Turpan were treated favourably by China with regard to religion; while Kashgar and Hotan were subject to more stringent government control.
As to the alleged violation of the Treaty of the Uruguay River, Uruguay's legal defense team asserted that discussions over the building of the mills were conducted, and that Argentine officials offered no objections.
Current status The United Kingdom has administered South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands separately from the Falklands since the islands were made a British dependent territory in their own right in 1985.
Kenyon subsequently became a co-author of Of Pandas and People which rebranded creation science as intelligent design.
Thurtle (2007), referencing Walter Benjamin, claims that the work owes more to the "storytelling" genre than to strictly scientific enquiry.
Lyell's response is recorded in his archive, held at the University of Edinburgh's Heritage Collections, who have also created a dedicated website to Lyell's work.
Mullett also described the book as scholarly but noted that the book contains a "slough of misrepresentation".
Although Greenworld has so far only been published in Japan, Dixon has expressed interest in getting an English-language version published.
On the Interpretation of Nature (or Thoughts on the Interpretation of Nature, French: Pensées sur l'interprétation de la nature) is a 1754 book written by Denis Diderot.
The percentage of students who held the view that there was a conflict between religion and evolution was reduced by about half.
Dr Tatiana receives letters from various creatures about their sex lives, and responds by explaining the biology of sex to creatures concerned.
Wolf-Meyer assessed Man After Man in 2019 as "humanity’s ultimate humiliation in the face of the world they had created".
Goldberg (1997) The virtue of human universals and cooperation: A review essay of Matt Ridley's The Origins of Virtue See also Animal Faith Evolutionary ethics Evolution of morality
Chapter 5: Welcome to the Anthropocene Kolbert uses the extinction of graptolites and other clades to explain glaciation as a mechanism for extinction.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
This competition produces a constraint that tends to mold organisms into forms that are more adapted to their environments – forms that would otherwise not spontaneously persist.
The solution of this chicken-and-egg problem, according to Deacon, is the subtle evolutionary process of co-evolution.
However, if current emission intensities remain as they are today, by 2060, there will no longer be a region above 3.5.
Writing to colleague Asa Gray in 1860, Darwin commented that he remembered well a "time when the thought of the eye made me cold all over, but I have got over this stage of the complaint, & now small trifling particulars of structure often make me very uncomfortable.
She argued that because biology and botany were fields dominated exclusively by men, the interpretation of natural facts was inherently skewed toward a male perspective.
The molecular evidence showed that DNA changes more often than what was originally expected and no real pattern was found.
The series was inspired by a course of 'Darwin Seminars' which took place at the London School of Economics−LSE in London in the late 1990s.
By 1980, evidence of the KT boundary and high iridium levels had been independently reported on at dozens of other sites, moving Alvarez's hypothesis toward a global hunt for the impact crater, in competition with several other scientists such as Jan Smit.
Yule stating that "Oceans of Kansas offers a well researched and often engaging account of the paleobiology of the Western Interior Seaway...".
The book contains a very useful summary of Majerus' work on melanism in ladybirds and a review of the peppered moth story, including observations on moth behavior which sparked controversy.
By showing how completely extant animals might be misunderstood if known only from skeletal remains, All Yesterdays shows that our own conceptions of extinct animals are likely equally mistaken.
In mindware “the human ape found a brain programming language to bond across time and place—symbolic culture.
Fisher later acknowledged Darwin's influence by dedicating The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection to Major Leonard Darwin, Charles Darwin's son.
Essay "Dinomania" is a review of Michael Crichton's novel Jurassic Park and Steven Spielberg's blockbuster film of the same name.
Laden concludes that "A Troublesome Inheritance is itself troubling, not for its politics but for its science.
Williams, containing papers written by biologists arguing against the view of group selection as a major force in evolution.
It went through three editions (1933, 1945, 1966) and for many years constituted a very authoritative work and the definitive coverage of the subject.
For decades the most enlightened writers in the fields of science and religion had accepted that much of the Old Testament, and Genesis in particular, had to be read in a metaphorical sense...
Pratt wrote on the second edition that "This edition needs to be seen anew, despite much of the same text and many of the same illustrations.
Darwin starts with dogs and cats, discussing the similarities between wild and domesticated dogs, and musing on how the species changed to accommodate man's wishes.
Maynard Smith and Szathmáry identified several properties common to the transitions: Smaller entities have often come about together to form larger entities, e.g.
Within a few centuries, Johnnie's descendants have consumed the planet entirely and leave the Solar System.
Wrangham argues that humans have domesticated themselves by a process of self-selection similar to the selective breeding of foxes described by Dmitry Belyayev, a theory first proposed by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach in the early 1800s.
Dr Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex is a 2002 popular science book by the British evolutionary biologist Olivia Judson written in the role of her alter ego, agony aunt Dr Tatiana.
The Creationists: From Scientific Creationism to Intelligent Design is a history of the origins of anti-evolutionism by Ronald Numbers.
- by Simon Conway Morris The disparity of the Burgess Shale arthropod fauna and the limits of cladistic analysis - by Stephen Jay Gould
The more they farm, the more their population rises and the more they are obliged to farm, because only by farming can they feed the extra mouths." References External links Yale Press.edu: Short summary of the book Edge.org: Biography of Colin Tudge Archived 2003-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
Importance of the book The experiments with the peppered moths, as described in this book, are arguably the most dramatic and best known case of adaptive evolution.
Details In the Presence of Dinosaurs focuses predominantly on the dinosaurs of North America over the course of five different time periods and details the flora, fauna, geology and geography of each time period in a manner akin to a naturalist's viewpoint.
In that book, Deacon notes that much of the mystery surrounding language origins comes from a profound confusion about the nature of semiotic processes themselves.
However, some of Benton's classification differs from that in the Tree of Life Web Project, especially regarding the relationship of early amphibian groups (Batrachomorpha and Reptiliomorpha).
The politically conservative magazine National Review voted Darwin's Black Box one of their top 100 non-fiction books of the century.
Everhart, Adjunct Curator of Paleontology at the Sternberg Museum of Natural History and past President of the Kansas Academy of Science.
But they have to live in an unnatural environment, and are both likely to have problems in developing healthy social relationships, both are liable to suffer from isolation and boredom, and both live in a limited amount of physical space.
The concept of extended phenotype has been generalized in an organism-centered view of evolution with the concept of niche construction, in the case where natural selection pressures can be modified by the organisms during the evolutionary process.
It was originally published in hardcover in Great Britain by HarperCollins Publishers, under the title Life: An Unauthorised Biography.
Content The first edition of The Dinosauria includes 29 chapters organized into two sections, the first on "Dinosaur Relationships, Biology, and Distribution" and the second on "Dinosaur Taxonomy".
The third considers the evolution of dominance, which Fisher believed was strongly influenced by modifiers.
The controversial conclusion is that willed action can alter our evolutionary history and genetic composition, by changing the environment to which we have to adapt.
It is a book you can lay on the table and let visitors leaf through and chat about, enjoying the pictures and the fine prose at the same time." A review in BioScience calls it "an accessible and elegantly designed volume that most biologists will want to buy.
Richard Dawkins in Unweaving the Rainbow (1998) references Medawar's review as "devastating", and characterises The Phenomenon of Man as "the quintessence of bad poetic science".
"Skeptic of the conflict" Swamidass concludes his book by stating that he is a "skeptic of the conflict" between science and Genesis.
Vertebrate Paleontology and Evolution is an advanced textbook on vertebrate paleontology by Robert L.
The tone is lighthearted but not overdone, with humorous shifts of facial expressions and postures as the world changes with each page turn.
Darwin and the Science of Evolution (UK title: Charles Darwin: The Scholar Who Changed Human History; French: Darwin et la science de l'évolution) is a 2000 illustrated biography of Charles Darwin, and a monograph on his theory of evolution.
At the rear of the book is a phylogenetic classification which combines both the Linnaean hierarchy and the cladistic arrangement, and has been used as a guideline for the Wikipedia pages on living and extinct vertebrate taxa.
Eyes have convergently evolved several times, as Dawkins discusses in "The Forty-Fold Path to Enlightenment" in Climbing Mount Improbable.
Morris introduces his section on geology with the frank statement that Bible-believing Christians face "a serious dilemma" because contemporary geologists present "an almost unanimous verdict" against the biblical account of creation and the Flood.
Latest publishing The latest edition, the fifth edition, was cowritten with Michael Morales and Eli C.
Whitcomb and Morris instead published with the smaller Presbyterian and Reformed Publishing Company, whose owner Charles H.
Darwin's Cathedral: Evolution, Religion, and the Nature of Society (ISBN 9780226901350) is a 2002 book by David Sloan Wilson which proposes that religion is a multi-level adaptation—i.e., a product of cultural evolution developed through multi-level selection.
Peter Jackson's 2005 film King Kong featured a complete ecosystem on the film's version of Skull Island populated with descendants of Mesozoic animals.
Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth is a book about natural history by British paleontologist Richard A.
A few points will suffice to show how similar Deloria is to outspoken creationist author Duane Gish or any of his ilk." Michael D.
The book was reviewed in the British Quarterly Review, Journal of Mental Science and the Quarterly Journal of Science.
Brandon Ogbunu refers to it as "one of the few evolution books that could truly be taught anywhere." See also Sean B.
The book was negatively reviewed in the British Medical Journal claiming "we are not sufficiently impressed by [the] author's arguments".
Beginning in the early twenty-first century, several increasingly devastating wars take place in Europe, which result in the United States and China becoming the two dominant superpowers on Earth.
He provides numerous examples of this both at the individual level and at the societal level, eventually discussing examples of self-deception in the history of the United States and Israel.
The Australopithecines separate man from the great apes, and the genus Homo is almost certainly an offshoot of the early australopithecines, upright apes of the wooded savannah (see human taxonomy).
Summary Better-World Philosophy is organized into nine sections, each outlining an aspect of Moore's sociological and ethical system.
He touches upon his personal life, reflecting on his father, the chemist Sune Bergström, with whom he had a relatively distant relationship, and on his own marriage and son.
Barrett's Metaphysics, Materialism and the Evolution of Mind – Early Writings of Charles Darwin (1980).
Universal acid Dennett writes about the fantasy of a "universal acid" as a liquid that is so corrosive that it would eat through anything that it came into contact with, even a potential container.
Following the 1859 publication of Origin of Species Darwin set out to produce evidence for his theory of natural selection.
The final chapter of part II dismisses directed mutation, the inheritance of acquired traits and Teilhard's "Omega Point", and insists that other controversies and hypotheses (like the unit of selection and Panspermia) have no dire consequences for orthodox Darwinism.
The Symbolic Species is a multi-disclipinary book that at the time of publishing was seen as groundbreaking.
He also looks at the relationship between science and race in the 19th century United States and the emergence and influence of scientific racism.
Baker, writing in Civil War History, described Lincoln and Darwin as "a profound comparison of the two men's perspectives and ...
In 1999, philosopher Michael Ruse wrote that Lewontin, by publishing the book, had "thereby establish[ed] himself (if there had been hitherto doubt) as the dominant figure in the genetics of evolution".
When possible, footage of actual live animals was used but other creatures, such as mammoths, had to be recreated through computer graphics.
See also March of Progress (illustration) References External links Wonderful Life Archived 2021-02-24 at the Wayback Machine - by Stephen Jay Gould The Cambrian "Explosion": Slow-fuse or Megatonnage?
An International Conference on Creationism, held every fifth year in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, produces papers of "considerable scientific and mathematical sophistication", and the movement attracts younger scholars with PhDs in the sciences, including even a few in geology.
Reception The idea of autoevolutionism has been described as a "minority opinion at the fringes of official circles of thoughts and of the mainstream." A review by multiple authors in the Origins of Life and Evolution of Biospheres journal noted: There are a few valid points in A.
"Otherlands" & Thomas Halliday on climate change Halliday indicates that humankind bears a huge responsibility in the trajectory of our contemporary climate change.
The text fancifully traces a fish in the water who “got tired of swimming” all the way up in its evolution to a human boy who can fly...The spare text is deceptively simple: there's a lot of science behind statements such as “One day there was a BOOM!
Evolution of the Vertebrates, subtitled "A History of the Backboned Animals Through Time", is a basic paleontology textbook by Edwin H.
Website An accompanying website to the series was launched in 2003, intended to act as a "stand-alone resource in its own right".
Influence The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change has been retrospectively described as a "landmark book".
However, there are also "Forced Moves" or "Good Tricks" that will be discovered repeatedly, either by natural selection (see convergent evolution) or human investigation.
It reflects well the state of dinosaur paleontology at the time of its publication, and is ordered and easily accessible.
Huxley, Thomas Henry (1859), "Time and Life: Mr Darwin's Origin of Species", Macmillan's Magazine, 1: 142–148.
Today's atmosphere has a similar composition as during the Oligocene (an epoch ranging from 34 million to 23 million years ago during the Palaeogene period shown within the table above).
Background Darwin had been working for two years writing his "big book", provisionally titled Natural Selection, when on 18 June 1858 he received a parcel from Alfred Wallace, who was then living in Borneo.
The book is then divided into three parts by era, first of which is The Rise of Life, which covers the Precambrian and the Paleozoic Era.
Others whose writings as prominent scientists were listed in the book's bibliography were Sir Arthur Eddington, Ernst Haeckel, Sir Julian Huxley, Sir James Jeans and A.
Combining perspectives from neurobiology, evolutionary theory, linguistics, and semiotics, Deacon proposes that language, along with the unique human capacity for symbolic thought, co-evolved with the brain.
Charles's wife Emma Darwin's correspondence was published by Charles and Emma's daughter (Frank's sister) Henrietta Litchfield in 1905/1915 as Emma Darwin: A Century of Family Letters.
Some of the illustrations in Man After Man have been turned into internet memes; particularly widespread is an illustration depicting a "woodland-dweller" attacking a "tundra-dweller", with the added text "Season's Greetings".
The book is a journey through 65 million years of palaeontological records, from the extinction of the dinosaurs to just before present.
"...pressure that humanity is placing on the planet." International Union for Conservation of Nature.
All of the Burgess animals, Gould argues, were exquisitely adapted to their environment, and there exists little evidence that the survivors were any better adapted than their extinct contemporaries.
Reception Subsequent to its publication, All Yesterdays has proven influential on the modern culture of palaeoart.
It mentions that "Aryan" culture was most likely the result of interaction, adoption, and adaptation among those who brought Indo-European languages to India and those who were already well-settled inhabitants of the region, and that Sanskrit and the Vedas developed in the Indian subcontinent.
The philosophical tool is commonly used in scientific discourse, and Behe notes that understandings of cellular structure and other aspects of microbiology were not much understood when Charles Darwin was alive.
A study at Arizona State University used the book as part of a two-week module, within an introductory biology course, focusing on science, evolution, and religion.
The first part, "A Guide to the Interpretation of Bone Accumulations in African Caves," details the processes and effects on how taphonomy occurs.
The negative user responses outweighed the positive ones, with some users being concerned that much of the programme appeared to be conjecture and that Robert Winston, or the programme as a whole, were dumbing down the science or "patronising" viewers.
See also Last and First Men, book of Olaf Stapledon All Tomorrows, book of C.M Kosemen Man After Man, book of Dougal Dixon Human evolution References Dixon, Dougal (2002-03-14).
Ayala and Bruce Alberts, highlight developments in evolutionary biology and its relevance to the study of emerging infectious diseases, the 2006 discovery of the transitional fossil Tiktaalik, and the application of evolutionary theory in many areas of science and engineering beyond biology.
It was not until one century later that feminists were working from inside the natural sciences, and could address Darwin's androcentricity.
The Design Revolution: Answering the Toughest Questions about Intelligent Design is a 2004 book by William A.
The book is written in question/answer format from Dembski's point of view as one of the conceptual leaders in the movement.
Reception The New Dinosaurs became a bestseller upon its release and like its predecessor After Man, The New Dinosaurs garnered positive reviews from critics.
When viewers meet the boy at the end, they also spot the pet fish that must have triggered his imaginative musings.
Essentially, Singer claims that although humans possess selfish, competitive tendencies naturally, they have a substantial capacity for cooperation that has also been selected for during human evolution.
Paul called the creature "perhaps the worst beast in the book" and "unbelievable", pointing out that he thought it was infeasible that pterosaurs would evolve into giraffe-like animals before the more dominant and already terrestrial dinosaurs.
On the other hand, extension of domestication packages along the North–South axis – as required in the case of the American and African continents – was much more difficult owing to severe imbalances of climate.
Summary The book is an expansion of the Jacob Bronowski Memorial Lecture in Natural Philosophy which Sagan gave at the University of Toronto.
- discusses the links of the Pioneer Fund to the distribution and positive reviews for the book Horowitz, Irving Louis (Jan–Feb 1995).
A Troublesome Inheritance: Genes, Race and Human History is a 2014 book by Nicholas Wade, a British writer, journalist, and former science and health editor for The New York Times.
Behe claims the underlying complexity and biochemical mechanisms of the systems are vastly under-appreciated, and identifies other, similar systems.
He knew that his readers were already familiar with the concept of transmutation of species from Vestiges, and his introduction ridicules that work as failing to provide a viable mechanism.
The book received generally positive reviews upon release and garnered the nickname "The Dinosaur Bible".
It is just a thoughtful, readable, and very stimulating book." Reviews In his review of The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change, Donald J.
Gerhard Lenski, in Social Forces, admitted that sociologists had too often ignored non-human societies, and thought the book should be required reading.
He concludes that game theory (the mathematical study of strategy) and experiments in psychology offer hope that self-interested people will make short-term sacrifices for the good of others, if society provides the right conditions.
How many other empirical studies have led directly on to a fundamentally revised view about the history of life?
Depending on how much CO2 is emitted, the Earth could very well be heading towards Eocene-temperature levels far faster than any underlying long term paleontology-cycle would suggest.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
Dobzhansky suggested that the preservation of extensive variation would allow populations to evolve rapidly as environmental conditions change.
I am confident that most of the signatories have not read my book and are responding to a slanted summary devised by the organizers." Wade added that he had asked the letter's main authors, Graham Coop and Michael Eisen, for a list of errors so that he could correct future editions of the book.
Although he avoids drawing any specific political points, Ridley ends his book by arguing for a smaller state operating on a more local level.
While preparing the text of The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication in 1866, Darwin began to explore topics related to human ancestry, sexual selection, and emotional life.
Part biography, part history of science and social documentary, this book takes readers on Darwin's journey of discovery.
References External links Supplementary Information to Dinosaurs: The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages by Thomas R.
a thrilling story that Gould tells in a way that no one else could equal." Some of the anatomical reconstructions cited by Gould were soon challenged as being incorrect, most notably Simon Conway Morris' 1977 reconstruction of Hallucigenia.
The release of the new edition was celebrated with an event hosted at Conway Hall in London on 11 September that same year, which included a joint talk with Dixon and British paleontologist and science writer Darren Naish.
The invention of engines that can surpass the speed of light has made it possible for the colony to explore far and wide; the second part finds them studying a planet orbiting the star Praesepe over 500 light years away.
He argues that this mindset contradicts the principles found in the Golden Rule, which encourages treating others as one would like to be treated.
Ashkenazi Jews The second major argument, which takes up the final chapter, sets out to explain why Ashkenazi Jews have a mean IQ so much higher than that of the population in general, as well as a higher rate of some genetic disorders such as Tay-Sachs disease.
Is it really inanity, or is it just plain laziness — or perhaps cynical awareness of the ignorance and stupidity of the target audience — mostly Muslim creationists.
Prior to this, a limited version of the exhibition (featuring 8 models rather than the 19 dioramas featured in the 1987 version) had been at the Newquay Zoo in Cornwall in 1983, in Japan in 1984 and in various locations within the United States from 1985 to 1986.
At the rear of the book is a classification list which includes every genus known at the time of publication, along with locality and stratigraphic range.
Some other taxonomic choices, such as the assignment of some genera to specific groups and the use of original clades (such as "minmids" and "paxceratopsians") also received some criticism.
Doughty, Innovation Journal Dinosaur in a Haystack Hooking Leviathan by Its Past Dinomania Cordelia's Dilemma Of Tongue Worms, Velvet Worms, and Water Bears Happy Thoughts on a Sunny Day in New York City Dousing Diminutive Dennis's Debate& Audio from the Prologue - MP3
Everhart also covers the discovery of the fossils and geographic records as well as the competition between E.
It was the first substantial textbook to argue the case for Darwinian selection applying to all aspects of animal coloration.
Pannekoek's pamphlet emerged amid discussions about the interrelation between the laws of natural selection and the laws of social development, as well as debates with the then-popular ideas of social Darwinism.
It was published still in the year of his death, with Éditions du Seuil, the publishing house of Catholic intellectual Jean Plaquevent (1901–1965).
The Journal of Mental Science found his mixture of science and theology untenable but praised Clair for his sincerity in accepting the evidence for evolution.
a worthy addition to the numerous individual studies of either man", and praised Lander for providing a new means of understanding and appreciating each man.
The book received anonymous reviews by biologist Alfred Russel Wallace that were generally supportive.
In particular, the first Ukrainian translation appeared in Winnipeg, published by the Ukrayinski Robitnychi Visti (1920).
Systematics and the Origin of Species from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist is a book written by zoologist and evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr, first published in 1942 by Columbia University Press.
Intelligent Thought: Science Versus the Intelligent Design Movement is a 2006 book edited by John Brockman and published by Vintage Books.
He gives detailed examples of warning coloration and mimicry, discussing how these are produced by selection.
The British Quarterly Review commented that: We congratulate the author on the ground of his conscientious and the scientific treatment of a profound and intricate problem.
Centuries later, officers Snowy, Ahmed, Sidewise, Bonner and Moon awaken and soon realize that human civilization has long collapsed.
Sections of the book dealing with punctuated equilibrium, primarily chapter nine, have been posthumously reprinted as a separate volume by Belknap Harvard.
The human species contributes to this disruption—even without intending to—because of our innate capabilities to alter the planet at this stage of our cultural evolution; for instance, we now can harness energy from beneath the Earth's surface.
The reason is that people already have moral judgments of real world cases such as abortion and euthanasia, so there is no intuition left.
The Faith Instinct: How Religion Evolved and Why It Endures is a 2009 book about the evolution of religious behavior by New York Times science reporter Nicholas Wade, in which the author argues that religious behaviours have evolved through natural selection.
It is impossible to separate thought from matter that thinks." However, in describing this dynamic as a function of the historical process of evolution, the essay is among the most explicit and comprehensive documents on the ontology of Marx and Engels.
Gould begins with the ancient Greek philosopher Anaximander, showing that the ideas formed a tradition leading to the French naturalist Charles Bonnet.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
The Psychical Kinship The second section discusses the mental and emotional similarities between humans and nonhuman animals.
The Princeton Field Guide to Dinosaurs is a reference work on dinosaurs written by the paleontologist and paleoartist Gregory S.
The two planets eventually make peace with each other, launching a wide-scale colonization initiative.
Introduction The book is part of the Sciences et techniques series (formerly belonging to Sciences series) in the "Découvertes Gallimard" collection.
Hand waving about the creative power of the organism makes a nice-sounding philosophical position but a poor scientific theory".
According to the translator's note, Harvard philosopher William James intended to write the introduction to the book's English translation, but died in 1910 prior to the completion of the English edition in 1911.
Nature cares for the species rather than for the individual; it lets the individual reproduce and then die.
He rebuts the claim that evolution cannot create complexity: since natural selection is non-random, it can create complex adaptations by selecting for advantageous variations.
On Knight's role in the story, Ottaviani wrote: As I was reading about Cope and Marsh, I ran across Knight as something of a bit player in their lives.
Humans are novel in their ability to decouple these social and personal bonds from direct sensory contact.
Ghiselin observes that Dawkins is "not content with rebutting creationists" but goes on to press home his arguments against alternative theories to neo-Darwinism.
There could not have been a worse time than the mid-1970s for the inauguration of human sociobiology.
He follows Huxley in his account of man's embryonic development, and then considers the evidence of vestigial organs, which he (and Huxley) called rudiments (p11).
Adaptations may have sacrificed muscle strength for higher intelligence and less aggressive human behaviours.
The book was welcomed by critics in journals such as Nature and newspapers including The New York Times.
References External links Google Books - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs Macmillan Publishers - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs
"Thus in the important matter of cranial capacity, men differ more widely from one another than they do from the apes; while the lowest apes differ as much, in proportion, from the highest, as the latter does from man" (p95).
The most common interpretations of the Book of Genesis read as Adam and Eve being the first two humans to ever exist, with all of humankind descending from that single, divinely created couple.
Ghiselin, writing in The New York Times, comments that Dawkins "succeeds admirably in showing how natural selection allows biologists to dispense with such notions as purpose and design".
Moore rejects the supposed infallibility of nature arguing that morality must be created consciously.
Gould argues that during this period just after the Cambrian explosion there was a greater disparity of anatomical body plans (phyla) than exist today.
It was originally published in 2001 as five comic books, and republished as into a single graphic novel in 2003.
Relation to other works The Scopes Trial was the subject of a comprehensive study previously written by L.
He strips any local conditions peculiar to Earth from these milestones which he calls thresholds, in the hope that these thresholds will be applicable to an alien evolution in an alien planetary system.
Though clearly inspired by evolution, the fanciful story is not an attempt to accurately represent the scientific process, as an author's note confirms.
Eventually, they discover many Macrolife survivors from many previous cycles of the universe, who help them to conquer time itself.
The book rejects reductionist biology and takes influence from Michael Polanyi and vitalist philosophy.
Chapter 10: The New Pangea Kolbert points out that there is an evolutionary arms race, in which each species must be equipped to defend against their potential predators and need to be more fit than their competition.
Notwithstanding the title, the book includes the complex evolutionary records of most continents within its pages – thoroughfully described by Agustí and breathtakingly illustrated by Antón.
The Blood of the Nation: A Study in the Decay of Races by the Survival of the Unfit was the title of a number of publications by the American eugenicist David Starr Jordan, the president of Stanford University.
The collection of essays, written between 1973–1977, became a best-seller and propelled Gould to national prominence.
The final chapter, "Who were the hunters and who the hunted", concludes that australopithecines found in the three caves were brought in by carnivores, contrary to Raymond Dart's Osteodontokeratic culture hypothesis, which proposed that the bones were brought in by the australopithecines themselves.
Conventional reservoir Oil and gas are generated naturally at depths of around 4 or 5 km below Earth’s surface.
Backstop resources theory states that as a heavily used limited resource becomes expensive, alternative resources will become cheap by comparison, therefore making the alternatives economically viable options.
Crude oil production has since risen sharply from 2009 through 2014, so the rate of US oil production in October 2014 was 81% higher than the average rate in 2008.
For rough comparisons, one million Btu is approximately equal to a thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
If one considers the lower heating value instead of the higher heating value, the value for one BOE would be approximately 5.4 GJ (see tonne of oil equivalent).
Oil Embargo The Baghdad Resolutions were important because Egypt broadcast claims of US aircraft support on June 6.
The Emir has promoted the idea that Kuwait should focus its energies, in terms of economic development, on the financial industry.
Data from the DOE showed substantial price hikes across fuel types, while oil firms implemented adjustments and officials attributed the increases to global market pressures despite a slight slowdown in per-barrel price growth.
A number above 50 indicates that political developments may lead to higher oil exports, while a value below 50 indicates lower exports.
Moreover, it was predicted that the oil field would produce an estimated of 30 million barrels for 15–20 years.
German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said "this is not our war, we have not started it." Trump rebuked his NATO allies, calling their decision a "very foolish mistake" and said that the United States does "not need the help of anyone" in the war.
But 1892 was the last year that Pennsylvania wells provided a majority of the oil produced in the U.S., and in 1895, Ohio surpassed Pennsylvania as an oil producer.
Distilled shale oil and oil shale gas were collected through 300-millimetre (12 in) perforated pipes.
Though oil production can be slowed, it can not be stopped completely, and even the lowest possible production level resulted in greater supply than demand.
In 2011, the OPEC Fund's then Director-General Suleiman Jasir Al-Herbish was invited to join the UN Secretary-General's High-level Group on SEforAll, which was charged with developing the Action Agenda that was presented to the 2012 Rio+20 Summit.
Prior to the new dock's arrival, the existing dock had been in continuous use and was unable to accommodate the smaller boats despite available labour.
The lower gasoline prices are a result of PEI's not charging the Provincial Sales Tax of 10% unlike in Nova Scotia where the Harmonized Sales Tax of 14% is charged.
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
This includes the "Big Three", which refers to the top three companies in the oil industry: Petron, Shell, and Caltex.
Bases for the formulation of the theory Carrying capacity limit and demographic explosion The sustainable capacity of the Earth without oil, according to some estimates, is between 500 and 2,000 million people.
President Nicolás Maduro reorganized his economic cabinet in 2016 with the group mainly consisting of leftist Venezuelan academics.
In response, producers in the region formed the Oil Creek Association to restrict output and maintain a minimum price of $4 per barrel.
Africa Algeria Algeria is an oil and natural gas producer, and one of the European Union's largest suppliers of LNG.
Alternative transport, most notably the Cuban "camels", immense 18-wheeler tractor trailers retrofitted as passenger buses meant to carry hundreds of Cubans each, flourished.
The Economics Department and the Technical Affairs Department jointly form the Arab Center for Energy Studies, established in 1983.
Governments start biofuel planting programs, while nations with established biofuel industries, such as Brazil, are able to mitigate the effects of fuel shortages.
Member states As of 2022, the OPEC Fund has 12 member states: Ecuador reactivated its membership in June 2014 after a 22-year absence.
So the biggest field in the world is Ghawar, with 80 billion in it perhaps, you step outside from this trend to Safaniya with 35 perhaps, Hanifah about 12 and Shaybah 15, and you come on down.
US oil production The charts below gives an example of the application of the Hubbert Linearization technique in the case of the US Lower-48 oil production.
1980s-1990s Construction of the centralised field facilities at Champion-7 began in 1980 until 1983.
Hungary: On February 22, 2026, Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó signaled a more cautious approach toward halting electricity supplies to Ukraine, stepping back from earlier threats of a total cutoff.
Iran: 'regular' gasoline has an octane rating of 87 RON, which is the most prevalent type of gasoline available throughout the country.
Prelude The AIOC was the United Kingdom's "single largest overseas asset" and a "source of national pride" in the British post-war era of Clement Attlee and Ernest Bevin.
However the crisis was brought to a stop after the ship Nevaska Lady on 11 November 2017 with 40,000 metric tonnes of fuel which was reported as being sufficient for twenty days.
Without structural changes in global monetary policies, consumer behavior, and production models, overconsumption will likely continue accelerating alongside economic expansion.
These declarations eliminated certain size and weight restrictions on vehicles carrying gasoline, and the hours during which they are allowed to deliver.
The impacts of the conflict are similar to the 1970s energy crisis, including acute supply shortages, currency volatility, inflation, and heightened risks of stagflation and recession.
In August 2023, The New York Times and The Washington Post described Held as a "landmark" climate case.
In the grant system, the license will be granted to the company or joint venture that shows the highest interest and ability for the exploration of the license.
After Hurricane Katrina, the energy committees in both the Senate and the House hold hearings about the sudden rise in gasoline prices, the first time that they have gone over $3 per gallon.
Production decline curve analysis is important in determining the value in oil and gas wells in oil and gas economics.
Other notable speakers have included former United States Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin, United States Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman, former Colorado Senator Gary Hart; former United States Secretary of Commerce Donald L.
Third, a number of oil-producing countries lacked the capital and technical expertise to run the oil production, as well as needed access to North American and European markets.
Iraq plans to increase its oil productive capacity to 4 million barrels (640 thousand cubic metres) per day in 2000 and 6 million bbl (950 thousand m3) per day in 2010.
That same year, the Humble Oil Company (today Exxon Corporation) was formed by Ross Sterling and Walter William Fondren in Humble, Texas.
The operation was given on a context where China dominated crude oil importations, with approximately 400 million tons as of 2017 as stated by Sinopec, one of China's biggest oil companies.
He was finally captured in 1994 in Khartoum, Sudan, and is serving life sentences for at least 16 other murders.
Legal legislative principles and texts The company follows the legal responsibilities of EU law and is compliant with the relevant national and EU legislative texts for different resources including electricity, natural gas, and energy efficiency.
Refineries produce many products from crude oil, including gasoline, kerosene, diesel, heating oil, aviation fuel, bitumen and others.
The area developed after a road was constructed to link up with a pilot station that was to be built at Watsons Bay (Old South Head Road).
The concept is known colloquially as "rocket and feather pricing" or "rockets and feathers", an analogy which describes the price rising rapidly like a rocket, but falling slowly like a feather.
Montreal becomes the first Canadian city to hold a major downtown, weekday street closure for automobiles.
World Hydrocarbon Markets: Current Status, Projected Prospects, and Future Trends, (1983), By Miguel S.
Garin said fuel supply remained adequate, with about 50 days of inventory and ongoing deliveries, but stated that price controls were not permitted under existing law.
In July of the same year, the series appeared on a list of the all time top 50 anime, according to Wizard Magazine.
Mr Hughes said forensic accountants Worrells Solvency & Forensic Accountants had approached all creditors including himself seeking further funds.
Tierney made unabashed reference to that legendary wager as he gave his apologetic for embarking upon this redux of it: I didn't try to argue with [Simmons] about Saudi Arabia, because I know next to nothing about oil production there or anywhere else.
See also Energy crisis 1970s energy crisis 1973 energy crisis 1979 energy crisis 1980s oil glut == References ==
Due to development of the tense situation the general public started panic buying causing the reserves to deplete faster than expected.
The BOE is used by oil and gas companies in their financial statements as a way of combining oil and natural gas reserves and production into a single measure, although this energy equivalence does not take into account the lower financial value of energy in the form of gas.
It is updated quarterly and made freely available to the public via the index website and Twitter feed.
It is approximately 42 gigajoules or 11.630 megawatt-hours, although as different crude oils have different calorific values, the exact value is defined by convention; several slightly different definitions exist.
On the other hand, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown called for international action and said Britain had to be "selective" in supporting biofuels, and depending on the UK's assessment of biofuels' impact on world food prices, "we will also push for change in EU biofuels targets".
Canadian Crude Edmonton Par and Western Canadian Select (WCS) "are benchmarks [sic] crude oils for the Canadian market.
However, Australian unions criticized the deal, highlighting the UAE's poor human rights and labor record, including modern slavery under the kafala system.
petrodollar as a main currency in crude oil transactions, whose hegemony has led the market since the dollar standard was first established in 1971, replacing the gold standard and giving the United States the power to manage most of the world's currency supply (around ~60%).
Proven oil reserves are those quantities of petroleum which, by analysis of geological and engineering data, can be estimated with a high degree of confidence to be commercially recoverable from a given date forward from known reservoirs and under current economic conditions.
The King agreed to this 50/50 splitting of Aramco's oil profits instead of nationalizing Aramco's oil facilities on Saudi soil.
300 Army personnel were eventually trained to drive fuel tankers and were placed on standby to help maintain essential supplies.
Sources This article uses text from Internal Revenue Code, Section 613(b), and Publication 535 (2013), Business Expenses which are in the Public Domain as works of the US Federal Government == References ==
Numbered terms The engineering term P90 refers to 90 percent engineering probability, is a commonly accepted specific definition by Society of Petroleum Engineers, it does not take into account anything except technical concerns.
Additionally, as of 2006, there are more than 296,000 natural gas stripper wells in the lower 48 states.
Petron (Mandaluyong) Petro Gazz Phoenix (Davao City) Jetti (Pasay) Seaoil (Pasig) Flying V (TWA, Inc.; Quezon City) Unioil (Pasig) Clean Fuel (Pasig) Foreign List of gas station chains ran by companies which are headquartered outside the Philippines.
In 2011, it had so many problems that rations on electricity were put in place to help ease blackouts.
Drake strikes oil Drake began drilling for oil in Titusville near Oil Creek, but at first met with little success.
The plane first stopped in Algiers, where Carlos left the plane to meet with the Algerian Foreign minister Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
Energy Intelligence Group publishes a handbook which identified 195 major crude streams or blends in its 2011 edition.
Paddington Reservoir Gardens In 2006 architects Tonkin Zulaikha Greer and landscape architects JMD Design began work to conserve, restore and reuse the space of the then derelict Paddington Reservoir.
Oil wells are generally classified as stripper wells when they produce 15 barrels per day or less for any twelve-month period.
Commercially, light crude oil sells for a higher price of petroleum than does heavy crude oil, because the fractional distillation of light crude oil produces greater percentages of gasoline and diesel fuel per unit of petroleum.
Each afternoon, the prices for the next day are released to the public and the media, allowing consumers to make an informed decision whether to fill up today or tomorrow, safe in the knowledge that prices cannot change.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
From 1994 to 2006, approximately 177,000 marginal wells were plugged and abandoned, representing a number equal to 42 percent of all operating wells in 2006, costing the U.S.
The local plan identifies unbalanced development between the east and west sides of the Belait River and stresses the need to research the ecological impact on forest swamp areas and explore the potential of the Belait River as an internal port to support economic activities in the region.
In September 2025, Reuters reported that Russia was seeing certain fuel grade shortages, with the reduced refinery runs caused by the drone attacks and high borrowing costs leading to private filling stations being unable to stockpile fuel according to retailers and traders.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
Relinquished licenses can be re-attributed in next licensing rounds, or even kept as relinquished if the government believes there is little interest on that area for the petroleum exploration.
The OPEC Basket, including a mix of light and heavy crude oil products, is heavier than both Brent crude oil, and West Texas Intermediate crude oil.
The allowance encouraged people who were taxed at a high marginal rate to invest in, perhaps risky, oil ventures.
Many large economies, like the EU, US and China, were unable to support 2005 levels of growth, and China almost fell into its own financial crisis during its 2015 stock market bubble and crash.
Extraterrestrial argument The presence of methane on Saturn's moon Titan and in the atmospheres of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune is cited as evidence of the formation of hydrocarbons without biological intermediate forms, for example by Thomas Gold.
Imagawa intended The Day the Earth Stood Still to be the second to final chapter in the conflict between the Experts of Justice and Big Fire.
Tourism Algeria's tourism industry, which contributes only about 1 percent of GDP, lags behind that of its neighbors Morocco and Tunisia.
OPEC From 1980 to 1986, OPEC decreased oil production several times in an attempt to maintain oil's high prices.
Vicious circle With more than 50% of all consumers in Sofia refusing to pay their bills, Toplofikacia ran into debt with the Bulgarian energy provider Bulgargas.
The discovery of massive oil fields in Saudi Arabia threatened to scuttle the cartel, as control of the oil fields by two companies could undermine existing supply management schemes.
Montana's Supreme Court heard oral arguments on July 10, 2024, its seven justices taking the case under advisement.
Derived units For multiples of the tonne of oil equivalent, it is more usual to speak of millions of tonnes of oil equivalent and kilotonnes of oil equivalent (ktoe).
The France, Germany, and Italy agreement France, Germany and Italy have an oil-sharing agreement in place that allows them to buy oil from each other in the event of an emergency.
Also, the electrical power service contract for residential charging stations can be independent of household consumption under a commercial rate, which can save up to 40% on electricity compared to consolidating billing in the same meter.
For light oils and rich gas condensates the ultimate GOR of export streams is strongly influenced by the efficiency with which the processing plant strips liquids from the gas phase.
Yamaki had intended to use a star system and feature characters from Yokoyama's works with the same appearance but different personalities, but Imagawa wanted to keep the characters as they were.
The country is the fifth largest oil producing nation in Africa, which has helped drive its strong growth in the later 20th century.
The time to reach this break-even point is called energy payback period (EPP) or energy payback time (EPBT).
Fico specifically linked his opposition to the suspension of oil transit through the Druzhba pipeline, characterizing the situation as a deliberate provocation by Ukraine.
In Crimea, Russian occupation officials limited gasoline sales to 20 liters per customer and imposed price caps.
The other well-known classifications (also called references or benchmarks) are the OPEC Reference Basket, Dubai Crude, Oman Crude, Shanghai Crude, Urals oil and West Texas Intermediate (WTI).
On 26 March 2018, the Chinese government issued the first long term oil trading contracts denominated in petroyuans.
Delegates of friendly countries were moved toward the door, 'neutrals' were placed in the centre of the room and the 'enemies' were placed along the back wall, next to a stack of explosives.
From 1974 through 1981, the total current account surplus for all members of OPEC amounted to US$450 billion, without scaling-up for the subsequent decades of inflation.
Electric Vehicle and EVSE Incentives by State, September 2014 New Energy Tax Credits for Electric Vehicles purchased in 2009 Overview of Tax Incentives for Electrically Chargeable Vehicles in the E.U.
Exports from the region are typically going to Asian countries, with China, India, Japan and South Korea accounting for 75% of oil and 59% of LNG exports.
In June 2008, Daniel Yergin said that markets have helped fuel a "shortage psychology" that the world is "running out of oil".
A national oil company (NOC) is a petroleum company that is fully or partly owned by the government of a sovereign nation.
John Maynard Keynes's concept of reaching saturation John Maynard Keynes was the paradigm founder of modern macroeconomics, and is widely considered today to be the most influential economist of the 20th century.
Prices are revised on the 1st and 15th day of each month, or whenever the price raises or falls on the market sufficiently to interrupt the cycle by triggering an interrupting formula.
The oil depletion allowance has been subject of interest because one method (percentage depletion) of claiming the allowance makes it possible to write off more than the whole capital cost of the asset.
This was the first rise in petrol prices in 20 years and he also set in place a sharp devaluation of the currency which he said aimed to shore up the country's failing economy, hard hit by falling oil prices which make up 95% of foreign income.
Since the giant Cantarell Field in Mexico is now in decline, the state oil company Pemex has faced intense political opposition to opening up the country's oil and gas sector to foreign participation.
Announced in December 2017, it was claimed to be backed by the country's oil and mineral reserves, and it was intended to supplement Venezuela's plummeting bolívar fuerte currency, purportedly as a means of circumventing U.S.
The state-owned company Petroecuador plays a pivotal role in the oil sector, often operating in partnership with private and foreign corporations .
On 8 April, the Energy Policy Administration Committee announced on the Royal Gazette of Thailand that diesel prices would be cut at the refinery level by 2 THB per litre, aiming to reduce fuel costs and cost of living for Thai citizens.
Madhesi protesters have stepped up attacks against Nepali media outlets, with a Kathmandu Post media van torched on 28 December.
Generally, this short period initially brings economic benefits, in terms of increased GDP growth, but might later lead to a resource curse.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
On 23 March, in response to President Trump's comments on US–Iranian negotiations, Brent crude prices fell from US$114 to US$102 per barrel.
During their five-day presentation of their case, almost all of the plaintiffs themselves testified, as did eight plaintiffs' expert witnesses on topics including climate change, renewable energy, energy policy in Montana, and children's physical and mental health.
The OVA would be preceded by The Birth of Zangetsu the Midday, The Plan to Assassinate Daisaku - the Canary Penitentiary, The Boy of Three Days, The Greatest Battle in History - General Kanshin vs.
Economic growth The state of the economy can have a considerable effect on the demand for natural gas in the short term.
Singapore and Australia made an agreement to keep their energy trade flowing, and Singapore economic officials have said that the country's refineries are maintaining stable operations and drawing on diverse supplies of crude oil.
Although events such as these can temporarily disrupt oil supplies and elevate prices, the frequent disputes and instabilities tend to limit OPEC's long-term cohesion and effectiveness.
Stripper wells are more common in older oil and gas producing regions, most notably in Appalachia, Texas and Oklahoma.
Under the Bolivarian government, poverty decreased initially when Venezuela acquired oil funds, though poverty began to increase to its highest level in decades in the 2010s.
A 2020 study published in Scientific Reports, in which both population growth and deforestation were used as proxies for total resource consumption, warns that if consumption continues at the current rate for the next several decades, it can trigger a full or almost full extinction of humanity.
Oil and gas account for approximately 22.3% of Saudi GDP and 55% of government revenue, with substantial fluctuations depending on oil prices each year.
For the more polluting vehicles, the government intends to increase the maximum malus fee to €10,000 from €8,000 in 2016 for vehicles emitting more than 191 g/km, lowering the limit from 200 g/km in 2016.
On 13 March, Saudi Arabia reduced its oil production by 20%, from 10 million barrels per day to 8 million, after the shutdown of two of Saudi Aramco's offshore fields, including Safaniya.
In fact, gas dissolution and oil volume shrinkage will happen at many stages during the path of the hydrocarbon stream from reservoir through the wellbore and processing plant to export.
Single-player mode limits the players to the fictional Western Coalition, while online modes let players play as either the Western Coalition (WC) or Red Star Alliance (RSA).
Jum'ah, President, Director and CEO of Saudi Aramco states that the world has adequate reserves of conventional and nonconventional oil sources that will last for more than a century.
The series features characters and plotlines from the manga artist's entire canon of work, effectively creating an all-new story.
The legacy fund was established to ensure that the financial windfall gained from the Bakken Oil Boom would benefit the state in the long-run, even if oil prices collapse.
As peaking is approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically, and, without timely mitigation, the economic, social, and political costs will be unprecedented.
In such cases, the swing producer switches to the punitive mode and greatly increases its product output in order to reduce prices, causing losses for other producers and making them cooperate.
The modest level of tourism is attributable to a combination of poor hotel accommodations and the threat of terrorism.
Music The score of Giant Robo was composed, arranged and conducted by Masamichi Amano and performed by the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir.
By the 1970s, there were shortages of price-regulated interstate gas, while unregulated gas within the gas-producing states (intrastate gas) was plentiful, but more expensive.
Catastrophe The use of fossil fuels allows humans to participate in takedown, which is the consumption of energy at a greater rate than it is being replaced.
The term, analogous to others such as Big Tech, Big Steel, Big Tobacco, Big Soda, and Big Pharma which describe industries dominated by a few giant corporations, was popularized in print from the late 1960s.
However, after the discovery of highly aliphatic biopolymers in algae, and that oil generating kerogen essentially represents concentrates of such materials, no theoretical problem exists anymore.
Ruling and appeal Judge Seeley's August 14, 2023 judgment ruled in favor of the youth plaintiffs, declaring the 2023 version of the MEPA limitation (HB 971) and a similar 2023 law (SB 557) to be unconstitutional.
This 50/50 deal accorded the American oil companies a tax break equivalent to 50% of their profits on oil sales, with the other 50% to be diverted to King Ibn Saud via the US Treasury.
Crude oil became the world's most actively traded commodity, with the NYMEX Division light sweet crude oil futures contract becoming the world's most liquid form for crude oil trading, as well as the world's largest-volume futures contract trading on a physical commodity.
Reserves growth also commonly occurs in previously existing fields, as the characteristics of the reservoir become better understood, as fields are extended laterally, or new oil and gas reservoirs are found in existing fields.
As requested, a bus was provided the following morning at 6:40 and 42 hostages were boarded and taken to Vienna International Airport.
The Hardisty rail terminal can load up to two 120-railcar unit trains per day "with 30 railcar loading positions on a fixed loading rack, a unit train staging area and loop tracks capable of holding five unit trains simultaneously".
The global recession of 1973–1975 proved more effective than the United Nations in ending the global demand for Rhodesian products, which made the Rhodesian recession especially severe.
The USD black market exchange rate remains to fluctuate substantially due to the devaluation of the Lebanese pound caused by sharp USD shortages within Lebanon.
Whether the DME will be successful, and whether Omani futures prices will be adopted by producers and buyers as a benchmark, remain to be seen.
According to The New York Times and the BBC, the Lebanese people celebrated the arrival of the first fuel trucks.
Bardi's book looked at cases of rapid decline across societies (including the fall of empires, financial crises, and major famines), in nature (including avalanches), and through man-made systems (including cracks in metal objects).
Other private reserves of petroleum products for an additional 130,000,000 barrels (21,000,000 m3) The state-controlled reserves and the privately held stockpiles total about 470 million barrels by 2026 (583,000,000 barrels (92,700,000 m3) in 2002).
This interrupter would be initiated on the day of the price change or the next day when rack prices in Nova Scotia would change.
From 1983 to 1985, these contracts were for 500,000 barrels of Brent Blend crude, and were increased to 600,000 barrels after 1985.
After waiting for the militants to leave, Yamani and the other nine hostages followed and were taken to the airport by Algerian Foreign Minister Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
The WTI delivery price difference between months resulted in unusually high contango; purchasing cheap physical oil to storage for later sale.
The United States imported 28 percent of its oil in 1982 and 1983, down from 46.5 percent in 1977, due to lower consumption.
During that period, he headed Iran's delegations to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), served as deputy to Minister Jamshid Amouzegar and served multiple terms on OPEC's Board of Governors, in Vienna, Austria.
Since 2013, SOFAZ owns a 2.95% stake in state-owned Russian VTB Bank until now this investment has paid USD 57.3 million in dividends to SOFAZ.
The barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) is a unit of energy based on the approximate energy released by burning one barrel (42 US gallons, 35 imp gal or about 159 litres) of crude oil.
In January 1980, he issued the Carter Doctrine, declaring: "An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States".
Background The summit was announced during the first meeting of the High-Level Ad Hoc Group for the 3rd Gas Summit on 20 May 2015.
On 29 September, Forbes reported that the issues with fuel had worsened quickly and spread across much of the country, with rising prices, rationing, long queues and pumps running dry in some cases.
Crude oil storage space became a tradable commodity with CME Group— which owns NYMEX— offering oil-storage futures contracts in March 2015.
Bill 971 exempted the DEQ from "adhering to air quality and emissions standards when authorizing or changing permits".
Similarly, Venezuela's proven reserves jumped in the late 2000s when the heavy oil of the Orinoco Belt was judged economic.
Fuel Pricing Software is a business tool intended to allow retail fuel marketers to determine the most appropriate price at which to offer fuel based on their pricing strategies.
All six of these companies are vertically integrated within the industry and operate upstream, midstream, and downstream.
MON testing uses a similar test engine to that used in RON testing, but with a preheated fuel mixture, higher engine speed, and variable ignition timing to further stress the fuel's knock resistance.
While new tanks have been added in Cushing for a storage capacity of 6.6 million barrels, by March 2015 all the tanks were fully leased through 2015.
Economic importance In the United States in 2015, 11 percent of crude oil produced comes from a marginal oil well, and over 85 percent of the total number of U.S.
It also provides processing, storage, logistics and other services to commodity producers and consumers.
Operation Desert (German: Unternehmen Wüste) was a German synthetic fuel project during World War II.
Canada also significantly increased oil production during the 2000s oil crisis, mostly in Alberta in the form of the Athabasca oil sands, though a transportation and logistics crisis in Alberta has slowed continued growth in supplies.
The production of the catalyst requires a particular melting process in which used raw materials must be free of catalyst poisons and the promoter aggregates must be evenly distributed in the magnetite melt.
Economic growth during the 1980s was nil, and the period is often called a "lost decade" for Mexico.
Gas prices have risen $1.16 a gallon in the United States since the start of the war, with prices expected to hit $5.00 a gallon if the Strait of Hormuz is not opened by Mid-April.
The OPEC Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund) is an intergovernmental development finance institution established in 1976 by the member states of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.
One European diplomat voiced that a security clause in the EU's Ukraine trade agreement could permit the Ukrainian government to halt supplies to the EU as needed based on their own sanctions.
Various critiques challenge the theoretical foundations and assert that alternative perspectives, such as those of Cornucopians, proponents of resource-based economies, and environmentalist positions, do not support the claims made by the Olduvai Theory.
Firzli, writing in a Saudi Arabian journal World Pensions Forum, warned that the escalating oversupply could have durably negative economic consequences for all Gulf Cooperation Council member states.
China's slowing economy led to many other economies slowing or falling into recession, and the end of Quantitative Easing in the United States also contributed.
It represented Labour's attempt at combating the rampant inflation which took hold in the early-1970s following the "Barber boom" and the 1973 oil crisis, by utilizing their close links with the trade union movement.
According American Indian historian Nick Estes, the Dakota Access pipeline transports 800,000 barrels of tar sands oil across 1,200 miles of land each day and traverses through 357 tributaries of the Missouri River and the Ogallala aquifer.
Brazil France France had relied to a significant extent on imported petroleum for electricity production prior to the 1973 oil price shock.
China In March 2018, China opened a futures market denominated in Yuan which could encourage the use of its currency as a petrocurrency.
Players who ordered Frontlines: Fuel of War from GameStop or Best Buy were given a special code which gave access to one of two Challenge Maps.
In September 1985, Saudi Arabia became unhappy with de facto propping up prices by lowering its own production in the face of high output from elsewhere in OPEC.
Freeze on first generation biofuel production The prospects for the use of biofuels could change in a relatively dramatic way in 2014.
He took almost three months to write the song "Amma Thale", while all it took to write the song "Maaralente" was 90 minutes.
issued a DVD on 7 June 2005 and, as Cyber Wars, New Line Home Entertainment released the film on region 1 DVD on 11 April 2006.
Premise In 1985, Miami is kept safe under the watchful eye of Kung Fury and his Thundercops, the ultimate police force assembled from across history to defeat the villainous Kung Führer, Adolf Hitler.
Ji-man and Jung-ho see Jun-yeong approach Na-mi's building but do not recognise him and let him leave.
Plot Prabhu Shankar is a happy-go-lucky middle-class man who spends time playing carrom in the streets with his friends Sathish and Kumar among others.
Urumees forgives them and is thankful for returning his daughter, and offers them the three lakh rupees as a reward, telling them that they do not have to stay at the police station for more than an hour.
Pictures releasing the film on May 25, 2012 under its distribution deal with Alcon; FilmNation Entertainment sold rights to other international territories.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 60% based on 15 reviews.
Release Innocent Prey was not released until 9 August 1991 when it was given a VHS release in the United States by Intermedia Video.
Nada and Frank are cornered in an alley, but Frank activates an alien wristwatch, opening a portal to the alien's spaceport on Earth under Cable 54, an alien-run news network.
The film recounts his efforts at the White Sands Proving Ground in New Mexico and at the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama developing missiles for the U.S.
After seeing Reed being experimented on, Mizuki assaults Balcus and takes the Control Metal, threatening to throw it into a disposal chamber.
The responsibility of censorship proves bearable for Lyra, whom her co-workers, as well as her boss Simon, observe as a cold person unfazed by the disturbing imagery she sees on a daily basis.
Eric Bana stars as Bruce Banner and Hulk, alongside Jennifer Connelly, Sam Elliott, Josh Lucas, and Nick Nolte.
Charles Champlin of the Los Angeles Times called it "the kind of conspiratorial caper you like for its continual surprises or hate for its escalating confusions ...
After delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Tenet was released in the United Kingdom on August 26, 2020, and in the United States on September 3, 2020.
The Landlord confronts Ying-ru, who says that she cannot accept a life without change or possibility.
In the middle of their celebration, they hear chanting outside the RV and find themselves surrounded by cult members wearing black robes with hoods, including Sheriff Taylor and the couple with whom they had dinner.
The then Federal Minister of the Interior, Friedrich Zimmermann, is also included with a brief statement.
With that much money at stake, all three men (as well as J-Ron, their arrogant teammate from the high school football team, and the fourth person in on the bet) are eager to find a sexy woman with an evening to spare.
Yim Si-wan as Oh Jun-yeong/Woo Jun-yeong A man approaches Nami after accidentally picking up her smartphone.
Plot Lynch (Gary Oldman), an emotionless food connoisseur, stops a thief who stole a phone from Mimi (Elena Anaya) in a railway station.
Entertainment Tonight also visited the set during the making of the film, airing a segment in August 1989.
The weekend gross of this film in its first eleven weeks was as follows: Overseas, the film grossed ₩781,495,500 (US$713,790) in South Korea, and $2,169,164 in Spain, Hong Kong, and Thailand.
Future Shock is a 1972 American short documentary film directed by Alex Grasshoff and narrated by Orson Welles.
They suffer the theft of the only car they have, and their new car is prone to going completely out of his control...The film follows Franco and Ciccio, two bumbling driving instructors who somehow manage to teach people how to drive and get their license (Patente B) despite their incompetence.
(But who gave you your license?) is a 1970 Italian comedy film directed by Nando Cicero starring the comic duo Franco and Ciccio.
The website's consensus reads: "Do not enter." David Ehrlich of IndieWire gave the film a "D−" and wrote: "Hades might boast some decent star power, but there isn't a celebrity in the world who could save this bargain bin nonsense from feeling like a bootlegged ripoff of its own franchise.
The film was loosely inspired by an experience Smosh cast member Olivia Sui had in 2022, when she anonymously received a series of Shrek memes AirDropped to her phone while on a date with her boyfriend Sam Lerner.
"Bukalah Matamu" is the first single released from the official soundtrack, released on YouTube and all streaming platforms on 20 September 2019.
Christoph Waltz replaced Thornton in the lead role, and the late Zanuck's son Dean replaced him as producer.
Ross and Rick are both sentenced to prison, where Ross passes Rick by chance one day and stares after him in disbelief.
Oppenheimer became both the highest-grossing and longest Best Picture winning film since 2003's The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.
Cate Blanchett portrays a senior CIA agent who tries to track down and eliminate the girl and her father.
The film was eventually released on December 8, 2023, and besides being digitally remastered, was shorter than the original theatrical cut by around 50 minutes.
The Deserter's Wife (French: La femme du déserteur) is a 1991 French-Israeli co-production dramatic independent underground art film directed by Michal Bat-Adam.
"Collapsing the Interior/Exterior Distinction: Surveillance, Spectacle, and Suspense in Popular Cinema".
It also details exhibits by many people, including George Westinghouse, Nikola Tesla and Thomas Edison.
Bombshell: The Hedy Lamarr Story (referred to onscreen as simply Bombshell) is a 2017 American biographical documentary film directed, written and co-edited by Alexandra Dean, about the life of actress and inventor Hedy Lamarr.
Replying to the ban demands, John Abraham said while he respects the opinions of everyone, no one is above the Censor board and creativity should not be held at gun point.
After modifying the Jaguar C-X75 for the film, Williams F1 carried the 007 logo on their cars at the 2015 Mexican Grand Prix, with the team playing host to the cast and crew ahead of the Mexican premiere of the film.
Françoise's "exercise robot", Greg, arrives outside and Nestor lets him in without allowing the humans out.
The two continue to communicate across space using the e-mail facilities on their mobile telephones.
The film, which today is in the public domain and freely available for viewing at various online sources, was restored by the Academy Film Archive in 2018.
Based on the successful 1956 Broadway production of the same name by Betty Comden, Adolph Green and Jule Styne, the film focuses on Ella Peterson, based on the life of Mary Printz, who works in the basement office of a telephone answering service.
Werker), He Walked by Night, when the police are inspecting the contents of a murder suspect's trunk.
Plot Michi Kudo, newly moved to Tokyo, works at a plant shop with Junko Sasano, Toshio Yabe, and Taguchi, who has been missing for several days while working on a computer disk for the shop's sales.
Jaydeep had married Neha for her wealth, and concocted the murder plan to frame Neha and gain unfettered access to her wealth.
However, the film received only limited release in North America (with most of its fanbase created via the circulation of bootleg DVDs imported from Asia) until Miramax released it on DVD in late 2003.
Plot After writing a series of articles about a pedophilia scandal, the journalist Ji-won often receives threatening calls on her cell phone.
which the extra weight proves to be just enough to cause it to collapse, along with the fox, who falls to his death.
Produced, written, and directed by Wade Williams and released by his distribution company, Englewood Entertainment, it was released on VHS and in 1998 on DVD.
Background Actress Fanny Ardant and cinematographer Fabio Conversi got to know each other while filming Margarethe von Trotta's Love and Fear during 1988.
Apart from Antony, the film marks the return of actor Kannan of Bharathiraja's Kadhal Oviyam (1982) in an important role and Trupthi Ravindra in her debut.
Sean and Han's crew restore a 1967 Ford Mustang Fastback that Sean's father recovered and tune it to drift specifications, making use of the engine and other components from the wrecked S15.
Einstein tells the humans that Monique recorded a final message for them, asking that they remain human.
She moves into Gwen's home, a spacious Victorian property owned by the wealthy Phillip, who resides in a nearby guesthouse.
It is the direct sequel to Underworld: Evolution (2006) and the fourth installment in the Underworld film series.
In the Netflix series The Umbrella Academy, season 1 episode 3, a trunk shot is seen when the two hitmen open the car to reveal Klaus in the trunk.
As he lavishes a key witness against a lot of money and is hounded by a hitman (called the Cleaner), he not only sucks the FBI's anger, but also the crime syndicate Icarus, who also turns the Cleaner on his best friend, the FBI agent Sonny begin.
The Chase is a 1994 American action comedy film written and directed by Adam Rifkin and starring Charlie Sheen and Kristy Swanson.
Jackal Jayamalini Silk Smitha Telephone Satyanarayana Dham Prakashi Rao Babu Rao Jagga Rao Babu Music Music: K.
Regarding the premise of dinosaurs against the military, Black wrote that the filmmakers "somehow managed to make it boring".
However, before they can harm him further, Harlock enters the saloon and saves Tetsuro by overpowering the thug and forcing him to drink milk, which kills him by rusting him from the inside.
While Erik tries to find out why he has been brought back to life in the first place, the financial institute comptroller (Antti Aro) complains to Laura about the expenses caused by Erik and at the same time asks her the same question.
They purchase a shotgun and head towards Amarillo while being spied on by a steadily increasing number of cultists who seem to be networked throughout numerous small Texas towns.
External links The Big Bounce is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive The Big Bounce at IMDb
At the repair shop, a masked Jun-yeong fixes Na-mi's broken phone screen and gets the password from her in order to install spyware on her phone and clone it.
You can take our word for it: 'Bells Are Ringing' owes more to Miss Holliday than to its authors, its director (Vincent Minnelli), or even to Alexander Graham Bell." Awards and nominations Comden and Green won the Writers Guild of America award for Best American Musical.
After wrapping up the shoot on 22 November, the team headed to Ahmedabad and Surat for the fourth schedule.
At the 47th César Awards, it was nominated for four awards, including Best Director for Ducournau and Most Promising Actress for Rousselle.
As of February 2016, the film has grossed in Japan ($32.7 million), Hong Kong ($799,043), Italy ($1,295,875), South Korea ($696,169), Taiwan ($108,560), United Arab Emirates ($69,349), Vietnam ($350,706).
He found writing the script a challenge, as he had to create the film's plot as well as give specific reasons for each window that opened and why the point of view would shift between the characters.
He's the toughest guy I've met." Carpenter was impressed with Keith David's performance in The Thing and needed someone "who wouldn't be a traditional sidekick but could hold his own." To this end, Carpenter wrote the role of Frank specifically for David.
The filmmakers visit a "rehab camp" for young people with technology addiction outside Seattle and also meet with Danny Bowman, Great Britain's first diagnosed "selfie addict".
As the car approaches it is seen to contain a male driver and three high-spirited female passengers waving handkerchiefs towards the camera.
Smith tortures Litvenko under the supervision of Syndicate director Antoine Le Clerq, but Litvenko refuses to reopen the Agent program.
Finally the workers gain control over the robots with their own remote control device, which they had covertly assembled before, making necessary measurements on the robot assembling factory and researching the Ripple's prototype robot "Micron", whom he left damaged at his home.
The score was composed to follow Max Renn's descent into video hallucinations, starting out with dramatic orchestral music that increasingly incorporates, and eventually emphasizes, electronic instrumentation.
Blackhat was a box-office bomb, opening at number 11 and earning only $1.7 million on its opening day.
Accolades Berry earned a Blockbuster Entertainment Award for Favorite Actress – Adventure/Drama for her performance in the film in 1997.
Stephen Falken was inspired by and named after Stephen Hawking; John Lennon was interested in playing the role, but was murdered in New York while the script was in development.
Awkwafina as Ming Fleetfoot: A new Jumanji player character and Spencer's new avatar, who later becomes Eddie's avatar.
Killian, who experiences hallucinations that Ouelet dismisses as glitches, is troubled as she doesn't clearly remember her past.
Al tells her how Haskell died, but she blackmails him by threatening to turn him over to the police.
They tell Carly that she bears a striking resemblance to Naomi Singer, the previous tenant of her apartment who fell to her death from her balcony.
Jürgen is the son of a German officer who has been killed in action, and hopes to live up to his father's example.
They've been a huge inspiration for Strange World." The miracle plant Pando is named after a forest in Utah in America.
They are confronted by Smith, who is revealed to have surgically implanted subdermal titanium body armor, making him impervious to gunshots.
On the day that two of Chevalier's snuff films are to be played in court, the public gallery is forced to leave.
Complicating matters further, a parallel comedy unfolds on the same route when small-time thief Nelluru Peddareddy a.k.a.
Allegations about Robert Evans's behavior In her 2021 memoir The Beauty of Living Twice, Stone stated—without naming names—that a producer had once told her to sleep with a costar in a film.
Enraged with this knowledge, Shivam sends men to kill Siddharth, whom Rao shields, who gets caught in the crossfire and injured in the process.
Meanwhile, Jane continues her romance with Tom, and after a date, invites him into her home, where they have sex.
In the middle of the night, Paul finds Samantha staring at the window, looking at her father, and he deactivates her.
The robots and backgrounds were drawn based on computer-generated 3D models, while the dogs and wolves were drawn by hand.
Upon his release, Croker stays at the Royal Lancaster Hotel in Bayswater, London, where he celebrates with what is implied to be an orgy; his room became a favourite haunt of rock stars after the release of the film.
These were abandoned in the film crew's storage unit in Turin when filming concluded and their subsequent history is unknown.
Amy Nicholson of LA Weekly gave the film a B+, saying "Bird has made a film that every child should see.
After a night filled with nightmares, Sandra begins to wander around the desert near the Monolith car.
Kung Fury 2 is an unfinished martial arts comedy film directed by David Sandberg, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Tyler Burton Smith.
Calling it a "supposed family comedy...woefully devoid of laughs," Marsh concluded it fell just short of "asking audiences point blank to subscribe to HBO Max", and was ultimately "a vacuous and cynical experience that shoots far wide of the mark".
After a while of waiting, Brandon and Karina leave to retrieve keys for Brandon's car, while Marcus and Kareem search for Shawn.
Goddard, Wyatt, Bolton, and Meachum are arrested by Gamble, while Adam is released for contributing to the FBI's investigation.
In terms of total earnings, its largest markets are China ($18.7 million), France ($15.1 million), followed by Brazil ($6.9 million), the U.K.
Marcus and Anna find Jody and Cal, however they are soon attacked by the killer who murders Anna, while the others flee into Brandon and Karina's room.
The film was then released in Belgium on 9 August 2017 by Belga Films and in France on 16 August 2017 by Océan Films.
An energy source traveling through space strikes Mir, killing the cosmonauts and beaming itself down to Volkov.
The Pod Generation is a 2023 science fiction romantic comedy film written and directed by Sophie Barthes.
Plot Siddharth is a hacker who leads a delightful life, which includes his father, Rao, & his mother.
Hodges that these dinosaurs have been genetically rebuilt and are now the last three "carnosaurs" still in existence.
headquarters, allowing Cero to control its electronics, forcing the pillar heads to launch a protocol to evacuate to a nearby island.
At school, Oliver is bullied by his classmates due to his condition, leading to loneliness and a desire for friendship.
There is a deadly side of the Rainmaker technology - its byproduct is a toxic and radioactive aerosol which gathers in the atmosphere and can generate toxic rain which kills every living thing.
The plot focuses on the entanglement between various corporations vying for the financial control of an interactive 3-D hentai company, resulting in a power struggle that culminates in violence and espionage.
The soundtrack album was released on 11 July 2010 in a function held at HITEX convention hall, Madhapur, Hyderabad.
It is not the masterpiece its defenders claim, nor is it the completely self-indulgent folly described by its critics.
Plot Fateh Singh, an ex-special ops officer, lives a peaceful life as a dairy farming supervisor in Punjab until a village girl, Nimrit Kaur, falls prey to a cybercrime syndicate headed by Raza and Satya Prakash.
The duck, however, proves to be too much for the fox to handle, as he is constantly outsmarted and all his plans to capture him backfire at every turn.
Sator's estranged wife Kat Barton is an art appraiser who authenticated a Goya forged by her friend Arepo.
Bhairavudu goes on live television with a mask covering his face and reveals he has killed 23 people and hidden their corpses in 23 pillars of a metro bridge, and threatens the citizens to leave his brother unscathed.
Although he warns Hanna that a confrontation with Marissa will be fatal for either her or Marissa, he leaves the final decision to her and she activates the beacon.
James Mottram of The South China Morning Post wrote: "sweet, heart-warming and frighteningly prescient, Ron's Gone Wrong is one of the best animated films in recent memory".
David Rooney of Variety said Simpson's direction was "executed in the style of early David Fincher" and said Evans' performance was "gripping".
When C-Systems' test reactor malfunctions, Paul, the scientists and the prisoners all depart, allowing Eddie to furtively "fix" the system that night.
Norberg tells Ted that he plans to experiment on an ape’s head, keeping it alive, with a clear plastic dome over its cranium so that he can observe its brain function, then transfer what he learns to humans.
This is the third among Rahman's only three straight Telugu films that are not remakes or bilinguals.
Critical response Lav Diaz, writing for the Manila Standard, gave Bobo Cop a mildly positive review.
The film stars Siddharth, Lakshmi Menon and Bobby Simha, with Karunakaran and Aadukalam Naren in pivotal roles.
In custody, Niranjan manages to sell the drive containing the secret information for ₹25 crore (US$3.0 million) to Reddy's secretary.
As the members of the summit are taken hostage, Sutton and Secret Service Agent Manny Ruiz slip away with UK Prime Minister Oliver Everett, head of the International Monetary Fund Elena Romano, and First Lady of South Korea Han Minh-Seo, while Derek rescues his children and evades capture.
Release The Hearse opened in Kansas City, Missouri on March 21, 1980, followed by a release in Kennewick, Washington on March 26, 1980.
Justice and his brothers Reggie and Gaylord were all portrayed by Jackie Gleason; Reggie was a Canadian version of Reginald Van Gleason III, a popular character from Gleason's television show.
At the 2021 Toronto International Film Festival, the film won the People's Choice Award for Midnight Madness.
Looking for answers, Rachel returns to Moesko Island, finding evidence of Samara's biological mother Evelyn, who tried to drown her as an infant.
The caller offers to "make him stop" and in Stuart's confusion, he inadvertently asks for this; the caller shoots Leon dead.
They meet tour guide Uri and are joined by a backpacking couple, Norwegian Zoe and Australian Michael.
While they admitted the film felt like an advertisement for HBO Max, they praised the creative use of the characters and the acting, though they took issue with outdated references.
Globetrotting Youngster) is a 1973 Indian Tamil-language science fiction film directed and co-produced by M.
Rekonek (sometimes stylized as ReKonek) is a 2025 Philippine family drama film directed by Jade Castro under the production of Reality MM Studios and The Th3rd Floor Studios.
Little do they know that their landlord, a creepy and voyeuristic man named Gerald, has installed 13 hidden cameras throughout the house, which he uses to watch their every move.
Cast Production Development “The main idea of the movie is a confrontation between magic and the technical progress.
Jeevi of Idlebrain.com gave the film a rating of 2.75/5 and said that "The movie looks very artificial except a few scenes where the love of Naresh towards his mother is projected".
Cast Production During a European tour promoting City Lights, Chaplin got the inspiration for Modern Times from both the lamentable conditions of the continent through the Great Depression, along with a conversation with Mahatma Gandhi in which they discussed modern technology.
In the film, a man hires contract killers and tasks them with killing his brother-in-law, who he resents.
Soundtrack and score The soundtrack for the film features various tracks by Combichrist, Encephalon and Tribal Machine, while the score was composed by Scott Glasgow with additional music by Ronan Harris of VNV Nation.
The police fire upon Stuart, while a SWAT team breaks into the room that the caller was tracked to, only to find a rifle and a man's corpse.
A missed opportunity." Arjun Menon of The Indian Express gave 2/5 stars and wrote "Shakthi Thirumagan is not a graceful, patient takedown of power politics because it doesn't want to risk alienating audiences with half informed build ups and suggestive storytelling.
Spielberg first asked Sydney Pollack to direct, who got Kurt Luedtke to draft the first version of the adaptation but then bowed out; Ronald Bass was brought in by Kathleen Kennedy and Spielberg to work on the script, but they were unsatisfied with the results.
The sole survivor of a shipwreck is placed with the other patients, but he soon demonstrates abilities as a healer and starts being viewed as a miracle worker.
Charles Bramesco wrote in Vulture, "Their documentary forms a sharp image of the thornier side to investigative journalism".
Lisberger and Kushner subsequently presented their storyboards and computer animation samples to major studios—including Warner Bros., Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, and Columbia Pictures—all of which declined to finance the project.
The soundtrack of the film, titled Summer Wars Original Soundtrack (「サマーウォーズ」 オリジナル・サウンドトラック, Samā Wōzu Orijinaru Saundotorakku), was released by VAP on July 9, 2009.
It then delves into Ross's background, portraying him as a well-educated aspiring entrepreneur living in Austin, Texas.
smuggling a toxin into the country would probably be easier and just as effective as hijacking) that nonetheless managed to be entertaining.
Haley is evacuated by helicopter beyond the canyon, and knowing that Nic has mastered the use of his legs, Damon attempts to discourage Nic, saying "You can't reach her".
He uses the hostages' voices and likenesses to create deepfake videos supporting his claims, leaking the doctored footage to the press, and the surge in crypto investment sends the value of his own wallet soaring.
The illusory drop had been matte-painted, and Chaplin was never in actual danger while filming this scene — in reality, he skated on a plain floor, with a ledge for him to discern when to stop.
In an interview with The Hindu, Karthik said that Jigarthanda was intended to be his directorial debut and that he incorporated some of his experiences in the film during his life at Madurai.
Megat Zahrin Megat Hisham as Trez, a former Numeros agent wielding cybernetic gauntlets who now works alongside Rizwan.
In March 2023, Roadside Attractions and Vertical Entertainment acquired North America rights and released the film in limited cinemas on 11 August 2023.
Through a series of manipulations, Ella introduces the playwright to the wishful actor and composer, who now have a chance to advance their career aspirations by contributing to The Midas Touch.
Fassbender, Schwarzenegger, and Hasselhoff were cast by February 2018, and principal photography took place from July to September 2019.
Cast Michele Valley as Woman Takis Spiridakis as Guard Liana Hatzi as Drunkard Nikos Hatzis as Tramp V.
Cast Production The film was shot in the summer of 1983 in Sydney, Australia and Dallas, Texas, under the title of Voyeur.
The film is a remake of the 2000 Hindi film Hera Pheri by Priyadarshan which itself was based on Siddique–Lal's 1989 Malayalam film Ramji Rao Speaking.
Plot In the summer of 2014, Sophie Kessler, a waitress and single mother, who lives with her diabetic mother Kristin and her son Garret in Iowa, discovers that her son is vomiting in his sleep.
In the safe house, Tony and Patty undergo a spy training program while Terrence and Nora are captured by Rey.
According to the director Žiga Virc, the intention of the film was to "tell the symbolic story of the rise and fall of Yugoslavia", as well inviting the viewer to decide what is real and what fiction.
The two began directing side by side before splitting up into separate units with Wang responsible for handling the majority of the film’s action scenes.
The American and Soviet governments develop a three-year plan to replace all detonation triggers with undetectable fakes.
Cero confronts Rizwan's group, revealing that he begun detonating Cyberaya's central reactor, which would cause a chain explosion with the nearby underwater Azurium reserves, threatening the city unbeknownst to Cyberjaya's governors who would be hiding in the island bunker.
Ending According to a "Making Of" documentary, producer Deeley was unsatisfied with the four written endings and conceived the current ending as a literal cliffhanger appropriate to an action film which left an opportunity for a sequel.
The dealership manager (played by Daniel Benzali) is a bald-headed bully who has no qualms about screwing the customer.
Meba attacks Aron and Nobita tries to help, but was accidentally teleported inside the pirates's ship due to the belt on Meba's waist fell against him, Shizuka then fights and defeats Meba, while Gian also defeats Ogon.
The first single titled "Jai Ganesha" was released on 18 September 2023 on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi.
Long presumed a lost film, the Library of Congress acquired a 35mm nitrate print in 2025, restored for public release in February 2026.
Cast Production Two characters from the novel on which the film was based were merged for the film: "Ingrid Macht" and "Agnes Everleigh" became "Ingrid Everleigh".
Pictures, Spielberg, and Eastwood all preferred their draft with LaGravenese, Beresford dropped out and Eastwood asked to direct the film and co-produce it with his production company Malpaso Productions to have more control over the movie and make the project move forward.
Hathaway manipulates the update system on Jessup's phone GPS that tracks his location, allowing him to follow his own lead and arrange a meeting with the hacker's partner at a restaurant.
He discovered Bitcoin in 2011, and from there he has been fascinated by anything that has to do with it.
In the process, Jake discovers the illicit download and Helen punishes Ozzie, making him take Melissa to her private school Shady Glen.
Yoshihiro Hagiwara produced the DVD release, and the voice actors were Chihiro Suzuki and Sumi Mutoh.
After another wild encounter, Searcher and Jaeger finally have a heart-to-heart talk and realize that they do respect each other's goals in life.
Spielberg characterized the story as "50% character and 50% very complicated storytelling with layers and layers of murder mystery and plot".
Jones admits that it does not matter if ED-209 works, because they have contracts to provide spare parts for years.
Cognizant that he will be arrested for his involvement once Ross is captured, Rick extorts Ross for hundreds of thousands of dollars by posing as both a hacker and hitman offering to dispose of said hacker, intent on providing for his family while he is in prison.
Release Distribution rights to the film were acquired by Zeitgeist Films and Kino Lorber in August 2017.
Catherine Deneuve and Isabella Rossellini did screen tests to play Francesca, but despite Spielberg's initial reluctance, Eastwood had advocated Meryl Streep for the role from the beginning.
It was released theatrically on December 25, 2022 as an entry to the 2022 Metro Manila Film Festival.
The title was revealed to be Spy Kids: Armageddon, which was the original name for the previous film installment, Spy Kids: All the Time in the World (2011).
Soundtrack The music score is composed by the lead composer, Azri Yunus, assisted by the assistant composer, Hakim Kamal.
The Leeds International Film Festival showed the film on November 20, 2009, and the English dubbed version of the film premiered at the New York International Children's Film Festival on November 20, 2010.
She finds herself falling for him, only to discover that he is none other than Sandeep Anand himself.
In June 1989, Dominique Vignet, together with the Swiss millionaire Francis von Buren, agreed to invest 30 million francs based on the rushes filmed the previous year.
Beginning of the End is generally known for its "atrocious" special effects, "and yet," writes reviewer Bill Warren, "there is something almost compellingly watchable about this goofy little movie".
The crew returned to the river less than a week later to film scenes solely set on Westminster Bridge.
However, in theatres in the U.S., it was shown in black-and-white, allegedly to 'save money duplicating prints'.
Risking his loyalty to MATA, Ejen Ali will now embarks his thrilling chase to unravel those mysterious links.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 41% of 76 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 5.6/10.
Leaders Jeffrey "Jeff" Divine (born Jeffrey Ayan; formerly Ender Ayanethos) grew up in Lapeer, Michigan, in a Catholic family.
He escaped in March 2013, and remained at large for several months, until he was hacked to death by villagers on 29 August 2013.
Uthman was later succeeded by his son, Abu Ja'far Muhammad, who served until his death in 304 or 305 (917 or 918 CE).
The guided meditation then encourages the meditators to imagine themselves being on the Elohim's planet and communicating telepathically with these aliens.
The Jesuits began missionary work among the Tepehuan in 1596, establishing missions at Santiago Papasquiaro and Santa Catarina de Tepehuanes and, later, El Zape.
The NOI's division into two factions after Elijah Muhammad's death was caused in part by the fact that new leader Warith Mohammed wished to reject the Yakub myth, while national spokesman Farrakhan wanted to reaffirm it.
Many people directly attributed personal miracles to receiving a blessing from Rabbi Kaduri, such as recovery from severe illnesses and diseases, children born to couples with fertility problems, finding a spouse, and economic blessings.
This is a list of notable people who have been said to be a messiah, either by themselves or by their followers.
'seem to evoke a suffering Messiah in the perspective opened up by the Servant Songs.'" The text of 4Q541 Fragment 9 reads, 2 And he will atone for all the children of his generation, and he will be sent to all the children of 3 his [people].
April 16, 2021), also known by her followers as Mother God, was an American religious leader and the co-founder of the new religious movement Love Has Won.
Verse 10 Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.
Epidemics were known to have occurred in their region in 1594, 1601-1602, 1606-1607, 1610, and 1616-1617.
As the LORD is speaking to another Lord, Henry postulates that "two distinct divine Persons…are involved"—namely, God and Jesus.
Before becoming a religious leader, Raël, then known as Claude Vorilhon, worked as a sports-car journalist and test driver for his car-racing magazine, Autopop.
He attended Francisian Classic Gymnasium in Visoko and subsequently studied theology, but never actually became a priest.
Unlike impostors, he will truly establish peace and well-being, implementing justice and equity in a tangible, not symbolic, manner.
Hayyim ben Joseph Vital Hayyim ben Joseph Vital wrote that whoever wants to know what will happen in the end days should study the first seven days.
The bomb was planted under the wrong car and failed to kill Gaddafi but did result in the deaths of several innocent civilians.
Also Al-Majlisi (may God's mercy be upon him) in the book of Bihar Al-Anwar, named the speech of the progeny of Muhammed℗ as the "Yamani wisdom." That was also reported by the messenger of God℗, as he named Abd Al-Mutalib℗ the sacred house the Yamani Ka’aba.
Around this time, Muhammad Ahmad first met Abdallahi bin Muhammad al-Ta'aishi, who was to become his chief deputy and successor in the years to come.
For different aspects of "prison", see "prisoners of hope" in Zechariah 9:11, and the "spirits in prison" in 1 Peter 3:19.
And through them is the completion of favors and the perfection of religion and the heavenly messages are sealed.
They were often named after him, and there are many toponyms—from Istria in the west to Bulgaria in the east—derived from his name.
Background Sinasa was a village in a remote, mountainous area of Davao City, around 25 miles from city center.
Divine protection in battle Te Ua taught that the divine service and strict adherence to his instruction would make them impervious to bullets if, when under fire, they would raise their right hand and cry, "Hapa!
Vermes Pierced Messiah reading "[...]Isaiah the prophet: [The thickets of the forest] will be fell [ed with an axe and Lebanon shall f]all by a mighty one].
Arnold Potter (January 11, 1804 – April 2, 1872) was a self-declared Messiah and a leader of a schismatic sect in the Latter Day Saint movement.
In 2019, the couple founded the Church of Union, to "unify all religion under one spiritual umbrella".
The same measures were taken in the occupied territories; in French Lorraine, the Nazis forbade religious youth movements, parish meetings, and scout meetings.
Father Divine purchased his 72 Macon Avenue house from a resident who wanted to spite the neighbor he was feuding with.
Jacob falls asleep and sees a ladder set up on the Earth; the top of it reaches to heaven with angels ascending and descending on it.
James John Todd Kincannon (born June 12, 1981) is an American attorney and political activist known for his statements made regarding political issues and current events.
Manson's pen-pal Michael Channels claimed to have a Manson will dated February 14, 2002, which left Manson's entire estate and Manson's body to Channels.
While being against "globalism", Bolsonaro sought to work with various other neo-fascist, far-right, and authoritarian political parties, groups, and strategists to combat left wing politics across central and south America.
Its language reveals it to be apocalyptic; it speaks of distress that will come upon the land and of the disastrous reign of enemies.
While the surviving form of the Sibylline Oracles was likely edited by Christians, most believe that some of it originates from Greek-speaking Hellenistic Jews.
Due to his poor study skills and dyslexia partially caused by poor eyesight, he was put in special education classes and bullied by his schoolmates.
From around 1900, he traveled and wrote travel books, stories, and plays, with his plays becoming somewhat popular.
He was already deployed in Egypt due to the attempted coup there earlier, and organized a large force of infantry, but advanced at an extremely slow rate.
‘Abdullah al Himyary al Qommi as the narrator of this Ziyarat was lived in the terminal period of the minor occultation and likewise many of his letters to the twelfth Imam of Shia (Mahdi) have been narrated, according to source(s).
He contended that this would be a "biological change into a different species, casting his teachings as scientific truth in line with secular naturalism." He emphasized to his early followers that he was not speaking metaphorically, often using the words "biology" and "chemistry" in his statements.
Juhayman and 68 other militants were captured alive and later sentenced to death by Saudi authorities, being executed by beheading in public displays across a number of Saudi cities.
Content of the poems and stories The folk poems tell about King Matjaž's fights with the Turks, about the kidnapping of his wife Alenčica, or his rescue from the Turkish jail.
She and Moon together are referred to as the "True Parents" by members of the Unification Church and their family as the "True Family".
S Salusan bull – Fierce and very aggressive creature with compound eyes and multiple horns, used in bullfighting on Caladan and originating from Salusa Secundus.
The statement "and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it" is usually taken to mean that the Church will never become extinct.
Their lifestyle typically consisted of hunting animals with bows and arrows, growing root vegetables, and wearing loincloth garments.
Jafari said "This film was produced with a budget of 600,000 dollars in 15 months, which is a record in the local animation industry." The quality of Roman Princess is far ahead of other animations in Iran and is comparable with foreign works.
Birth and early life of al-Mahdi When al-Askari died without leaving an obvious heir, the traditions and predictions attributed to earlier Imams were largely the basis for the existence of the son of al-Askari as the twelfth Imam; see Twelver doctrine of occultation.
cell, Debra Dobkowski, and spent 16 months in prison before his conviction was overturned on appeal.
Love Needs Care: A History of San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury Free Medical Clinic and Its Pioneer Role Treating Drug-abuse Problems.
Pope Pius X in the encyclical E Supremi said that the distinguishing mark of the Antichrist is claiming to be God and taking his place.
It also faced opposition within and without the Theosophical Society, leading to years of upheaval, serious splits, and doctrinal schisms in Theosophy.
Potter spent his days wandering the streets in Council Bluffs wearing a long white robe and became a local oddity.
Sheikh Abbas Qomi narrates Ziyarat Ale Yasin in Mafatih al-Janan as the first Ziyarat for Imam Mahdi.
With Garvey’s rise to prominence in the 1910s, Bedward became convinced that God had only ever intended for him to be one of a sequence of prophets rather than a messiah — Aaron to Garvey’s Moses is how he termed it — paving the way for the younger man to deliver his people into the Promised Land.
Quautlatas promised divine intervention to return to an idealized past in which the plagues and suffering brought upon the Tepehuán by the Spanish would disappear.
There have been rumours of him dying, with some sources reporting that he died in 2001 and others saying he died in 2003.
Burials in Najaf have been documented as early as the Parthian and Sassanid eras and ancient Mesopotamian cities often had similar cemeteries, where there was an accumulation of tombs.
Others came forward and in 2000 two people were paid a total of 250,000 French Francs by the Victim Compensation Commission.
Song Zixian (宋子贤), a native of Tang County in the Sui dynasty, who was an expert in magic, and claimed to be able to transform into the form of Buddha and claimed to be an incarnation of Maitreya Buddha and staged a rebellion.
Thus, cosmopolitan activists around the globe, perceiving the IGOs as too ineffectual for global change, formed a world federalist movement.
Saf ibn Sayyad (Arabic: الصف بن الصياد), later known as Abdullah ibn Sa'id (Arabic: عبد الله بن سعيد), was an alleged claimant of prophethood during the time of Islamic prophet Muhammad and his companions who later disappeared after the Ridda wars.
A number of folk poems and stories about King Matjaž are known, the earliest ones originating in the western Slovene area of Tolmin from the 16th century.
It is a symbol of membership of a Johrei organisation and the member's dedication to Meishu-Sama and his teachings.
During the attack, another MUI official Ikhsan Abdullah stated that the attacker claimed to be God himself.
Henry further claims that in this psalm, David is acknowledging Christ's sovereignty and his (David's) subservience to him.
Sources Du'a Faraj which is attributed to Imam Mahdi, has been quoted in diverse compilations such as Konuz al-Nejah (Sheikh Tabarsi), Wasael al-Shia (of Sheikh Al-Hurr al-Aamili), Jamal al-Usbu (of Sayyed Ibn Tawus) and so on.
He went on to teach Johrei to his followers to allow them to achieve Messianity and spread the teachings across the world.
From 1924 he used the pen name "Abd-ru-shin" (originally "Abdruschin") of allegedly Persian-Arabic origin, which Bernhardt originally interpreted as meaning "The Son of the Holy Spirit", but which many later authors have translated as "Son of Light".
SOUST SOUST, aka Suprema Ordem Universal da Santa Trindade (Acronym in Portuguese for "Supreme Universal Order of the Holy Trinity") refers to the residence of Álvaro Thais.
According to Ayatollah Bahjat, the recitation of Dua Al-Faraj is the best act in order not to be destroyed in the end times.
Multiple scholars highlight the similarity between the Hemerobaptists and the Essenes, a Jewish sect that flourished during the late Second Temple period.
In their different ways, the Avars and Slavs in the Balkans, and the Sasanians and Muslims in the Levant and Northern Africa, had different models of governance and no appetite for posing as Romans.
In Arabic malḥama or malḥamat (plural malāḥim) can signify a fierce war with considerable atrocities and killing, a similar battle within such a war, bloody combat, or massacre or slaughter.
Although robbed of all of his possessions, including his demon-slaying sword, by bandits in the town of Meizixun, he eventually reached Thistle Mountain on 27 August 1847.
Despite initially amicable relations, in 1878 the two religious leaders had a dispute motivated by Sheikh Sharif's resentment of his former student's growing popularity.
He retreated into the mountain village of Gal, where he formed a personality cult around himself as the Messiah, adopting the moniker "Black Jesus".
Bolsonarism broke out in Brazil with the rise in popularity of Bolsonaro, especially during his campaign in the presidential election in 2018, which elected him as president.
This added proof in some scholars' eyes that the Jewish belief was that the coming Messiah would be a king who brought peace, and would be "called by Second Temple Jews the 'Son of God'".
Jones' father was a disabled World War I veteran who suffered from severe breathing difficulties due to injuries sustained in a chemical weapons attack.
Besides, the du'a of “Allahuma Kon LeWaliyyek al-Hujjat ibn al-Hassan (which means: O Allah, be, for Your representative, the Hujjat (proof), son of AlHassan)” is also as famous as Du'a al-Faraj by Shia Muslims.
His family retained leadership of the Babylonian exiles (Ezekiel 1:2), and his descendants were at the head of those who returned to Zion.
Ibn Babawayh in his work mentions a hadith of Ja'far al-Sadiq that says the uprising of Muhammad al-Mahdi will occur 5 days after the murder of Al-Nafs al-Zakiyyah.
Has Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) not said that he would be a Jew whereas I am a Muslim and he also said that he would not have children, whereas I have children, and he also said: verily, Allah has prohibited him to enter Mecca whereas I have performed Pilgrimage".
His face, with a neatly trimmed beard, matched a photo in a pamphlet found at the site entitled "Holy Coming", which identified him as the Mahdi.
Duanaire Ghearóid Iarla (The Poem-Book of Earl Gerald) is preserved in a fifteenth-century manuscript, the Book of Fermoy.
Yahweh was indicted on three counts of federal racketeering and extortion charges, of which he was found not guilty.
In 1972, Moon founded the International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences, a series of scientific conferences.
Iraqi officials, including Najaf deputy governor Abdel Hussein Attan, had claimed that the group had links with al-Qaeda, but given that Sunni jihadists are fiercely anti-Shia, this seemed unlikely.
Although the fall of Nanjing in 1864 marked the destruction of the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom, there were still several thousands of Taiping rebels continuing to resist Qing forces.
In an interview, Ben Ammi described his status as a spiritual leader: My anointing did not come until after we had arrived in Israel.
Policies Within the land that it controlled, the Taiping Heavenly Army established totalitarian, theocratic, and highly militarised rule.
The family were all known as Mughals within the British governmental records of India probably due to the high positions it occupied within the Mughal Empire and their courts.
Prophet's daughter, a professor of religion at the University of Florida, has argued that earlier variations of the concept appear in the works of Charles Fourier and Emanuel Swedenborg.
Books written by the Waqifites 'Ali ibn al-Hasan al-Ta'i al-Tatari (a companion of Musa al-Kadhim) named Musa al-Kadhim as the hidden Imam.
On April 24, 1840, Potter was given the Melchizedek priesthood and ordained to the priesthood office of elder by Joseph Smith.
Ziyarat Ale Yasin (Arabic: زیارة آل یاسین) is regarded as a well-known Ziyarat (piece of salutation) which is associated with Mahdi who is an eschatological redeemer of Islam that will reappear and he will rid the world of all wicked and bad things (evil).
Although the Taghlib tribe under Hudhayl ibn 'Imran pledged their allegiance and abandoned Christianity, the majority of the Banu Tamim clans rejected her call, which made Sajah give up hope of getting the support from the majority of her own kinsmen.
One central theme of the BBC documentary was again Alaya Rahm's sexual abuse allegations against Sathya Sai Baba.
The Tepehuán Revolt broke out in New Spain in 1616 when the indigenous Tepehuán attempted to break free from Spanish rule.
Iconography Krishna is represented in the Indian traditions in many ways, but with some common features.
"Be discouraged": from Hebrew: יָר֔וּץ, yā-rūts, "bruised", from the root word "crushed" (רָצַץ, ratsats), used to describe "crushed reed" (or "bruised reed") and "dim (כָּהָה, kahah) wick" (or "smoking flax") in verse 3, repeated here for rhetorical effect.
Practitioners claim to channel light towards patients by holding up the palms of their hands towards the recipient's body.
He worked as a stock broker for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter until August 1998, when he went on disability after being diagnosed with bipolar disorder.
'Peace upon thee, O son of Levi', Joshua replied, and Elijah told him that that meant that he and his father would have a place in the world to come.
Isaiah 53 is the fifty-third chapter of the Book of Isaiah in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament of the Christian Bible.
classified the syndrome into three major types to reflect the different types of interactions between a visit to Jerusalem and unusual or psychosis-related thought processes.
Death of Gershon Salomon On November 23, 2022, Gershon Salomon, founder of the Temple Mount Faithful, died.
See also Christian messianic prophecies Messianic prophecies of Jesus Related Bible parts: Isaiah 40, Isaiah 42 References Bibliography Würthwein, Ernst (1995).
After a long trial, with many witnesses, "Smith instructed the jury to ignore the statements made by witnesses not present on the night of the raid.
The story says that the ghosts are trapped inside the Ålleberg mountain, waiting for a new war to wake them up so they can fight to save the country.
When the House of David was told that Syria had allied itself with Ephraim, their hearts and the hearts of their people trembled ...
Yes, by Allah he has died, and his wealth has been distributed and his slave girls have been married.” He suspected those who claimed that his father did not die, of lying and said: “They are disbelievers in what Allah the Exalted has revealed on Muhammad.
The full Johannine development of the Father-Son relationship rests on an authentic basis in the Jesus-tradition (Mark 14:36; Matthew 11:25–26; 16:17; Luke 11:2).
Appearance of Yamani In Shia theology, five signs are guaranteed to occur before Imam al-Mahdi’s appearance.
The collection consists of 3,000 pieces of Japanese and Oriental art, of which 250 to 300 are on display at any one time.
Israel Knohl, an expert in Talmudic and biblical language at Jerusalem's Hebrew University, translated line 80 of the inscription as "In three days, live, I Gabriel com[mand] yo[u]".
From 1864 to 1868, upon his father's wishes, Ahmad worked as a clerk in Sialkot, where he would come into contact with Christian missionaries with whom he frequently engaged in debate.
He received the nickname "Pastor" because he was a reverend of the World Messianic Church of Brazil (IMMB).
Public speaking and religious activities In 1969, at the age of 21, Inri began his public life as a self-professed prophet and astrologer, introducing himself as "Iuri de Nostradamus".
Berger's response to David Singer Archived 2007-01-25 at the Wayback Machine "The Professor, Messiah, & Scandal of Calumnies".
For Thomas Aquinas (who also taught the Perfection of Christ), the "'Son of God' is God as known to God".
In a religious subculture of competing claims, Jones declared that the almighty God spoke solely to him and that he was the second coming of Christ and thus was the world's 'one and only true prophet' and savior.
A physical analysis of the stone found no evidence of modern treatment of the surface, and found the attached soil most consistent with the area east of the Lisan Peninsula of the Dead Sea.
He was severely beaten, his hair and beard were cut and he was sent back for trial to his city of origin, Quixeramobim.
Likewise, the Psalms record God's promise to establish the seed of David on his throne forever, while Isaiah and Jeremiah speak of the coming reign of a righteous king of the house of David.
In 1941, she married Lionel Harris and had one biological child, Judith, who later sued her mother and settled in Britain before predeceasing her.
52;7) 11Q13 states that Zion is the congregation of all the sons of righteousness, while Melchizedek is "Your Elohim" who will deliver the sons of righteousness from Belial.
According to Hussain, restrictions on the later Imams inevitably expanded the role and authority of their representatives, particularly their main agent (safir).
James the Brother of Jesus: The Key to Unlocking the Secrets of Early Christianity and the Dead Sea Scrolls (VikingPenguin).
In Shaker society, a spiritual "gift" could be a musical revelation, and they considered it important to record musical inspirations as they occurred.
Now, "he has received from the Father the Holy spirit, who was promised." (Acts 2:16-21.17.33) According to Isaiah, the messianic age was to have its anointed leader, the Messiah, who would be filled with the gifts of the spirit to be able to accomplish his saving work.
The account describes that the pregnancy of Narjis miraculously had no physical signs, similar to Moses' mother, and that Hakima Khatun was brought in as midwife only when the birth was due.
The most notable surviving early example is the Book of Revelation (written at some point in the 90s AD), also known as the Apocalypse of John, which was eventually included in the canon of the New Testament.
At that dinner, Willie Brown touted Jones as "what you should see every day when you look in the mirror" and said he was a combination of Martin Luther King Jr., Angela Davis, Albert Einstein, and Mao.
Krishnamurti eventually dismantled it in 1929, disavowing any further relationship with it and Theosophy in general.
Gesenius' Hebrew and Chaldee Lexicon to the Old Testament Scriptures: Numerically Coded to Strong's Exhaustive Concordance, with an English Index.
According to another account, al-Isfahani's attempt to institute Zoroastrian worship led Abu Tahir to have him murdered less than three months after proclaiming him the Mahdi.
On March 16, 1856, Potter received a call to serve as a missionary in Australia from LDS Church president Brigham Young.
Al-Masa'il : Ibn Nadim mentioned this work in his list, and its title is recorded in Ahmad ibn Muhammad al-Zurari message.
and the messenger is the Anointed one of the spirit, concerning whom Dan[iel] said, [Until an anointed one, a prince (Dan.
Witnesses of Ahn Sahng-hong Church of God One group, consisting of 11 out of the 13 churches, recognized Kim Joo-cheol as the successor and Zahng Gil-jah as the spiritual bride.
After being promoted he fought a long, indecisive campaign in 572–591 against the Byzantines in northern Mesopotamia.
See also Sufyani Khasf al-Bayda' Al-Yamani (Shiism) Nafs-e-Zakiyyah (Pure soul) Reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi Signs of the reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi Voice of God == References ==
The Prelude to Dune prequel series establishes it to be the fur of the Bjondax whales of Lankiveil, a planet controlled by the Harkonnens.
And I love that my work would be raised during my fasting." Birthday of Muhammad al-Mahdi According to Twelver Shias, Muhammad al-Mahdi, the final Shia Imām, was born on 15 Sha'ban.
The delegation before their departure embraced Islam and renounced Christianity without compunction.
See also Brazilian integralism Chavismo Conservatism in Brazil Diehard Duterte Supporters Fascism in Brazil Fujimorism Kirchnerism Lulism Military dictatorship in Brazil Trumpism References Works cited Further reading Boito, Armando, Jr.
In the middle of the ruins grows a 160-year-old spruce called "Big Monk." In popular culture Czech historical novelist Alois Jirásek portrayed the Blaník legend in his Ancient Bohemian Legends.
Early Krishnaite Bhakti pioneers included Nimbarkacharya (7th century CE), and his disciple Srinivasacharya but most emerged later, including Vallabhacharya (15th century CE) and Chaitanya Mahaprabhu.
Perpetrator The perpetrator was later identified as a man named Mustofa or Mustopa NR, a 60-year-old resident of Sukajaya Village, Pesawaran Regency, Lampung.
A man attempted to attack him with a hand grenade during a discourse at his home in Kotri, Pakistan.
Ann Lee's mission throughout New England was especially successful in converting groups who were already outside the mainstream of New England Protestantism, including followers of Shadrack Ireland.
In his book, al-Nu'mani wrote that, having noticed how the Shia followers were perplexed by the event of the occultation, he wanted to try and save them from this perplexity.
In his review of Want Two, Pitchfork's Stephen Deusner described the savior character as "Wainwright's own personal Jesus".
According to Bourne, the play was particularly popular, and philologist Du Cange gives mention of a similar play performed at Rouen.
Lalich sees this as a way that they increased their students' devotion, ensuring that their commitment became irrespective of what they saw.
So far, more than 400 have been explored—including the Schellenberg Ice Cave at an elevation of 1,570 m (5,150 ft), a show cave since 1925, and the Kolowrat Cave with a 300 m (980 ft) high dome.
Christian Kabbalah In some modern forms of Christian Kabbalah, based on Lurianic Kabbalah, Jesus is not literally the Son of God but rather a composite being like Adam.
Al-Tabari in his History of the Prophets and Kings chronicles that Musaylima also proposed to share power over Arabia with Muhammad.
An appeal court added four more years to his sentence in 2009, convicting him on all four charges of rape between 2001 and 2006.
We need not belabor the point, but the past hundred years or so have brought about an increase in knowledge unsurpassed in all human history.
After the fall of Constantinople Within decades after the capture of Constantinople by Mehmed II of the Ottoman Empire on 29 May 1453, some Eastern Orthodox people were nominating Moscow as the "Third Rome", or the "New Rome".
The ship was then searched twice by the officers and then again by the captain and neither a drum nor a drummer was found on board; eventually the phenomenon was put down to the legendary drum.
Detailed linguistic studies have been performed by Bar-Asher (2008), Rendsburg (2011), and Young (2013).
Certain sign of reappearance According to narrations, the murder of Al-Nafs al-Zakiyyah is one of the certain signs of reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi.
The incident led to further media criticism of the movement, which was placed under police surveillance.
Meanwhile, due to their adherence to Christian religion, the Tamim tribe also develop close relationship with the Christians of the Euphrates region and northern Syria.
Jesus' next statement, "and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." are interpreted as the foundation of the doctrine of papal infallibility.
The role of Sanhedrin had to be complete, meaning that the Hebrew calendar had to immediately change, which could cause division among the Jewish people Even if Maimonides was correct, because the scholars of Jerusalem were not present the election was invalid.
He will forever destroy the falsehood embodied in al-Masih ad-Dajjal (the false Messiah), the great falsifier, a figure similar to the Antichrist in Christianity, who will emerge shortly before Yawm al-Qiyāmah ('the Day of Resurrection').
Mazzini spoke of the need of Italy as a Third Rome to have imperial aspirations, to be realized in the Italian Empire.
After Pavlović's arrest in 2019, police and veterinarians raided his estate and found a number of dead animal remains and other malnutritioned animals roaming around the estate.
He also argued that there would be biological robots which would serve as sex-slaves, akin to those which Raël states that he encountered on his visit to the Elohim planet.
Silla, after nearly a millennium as a centralized kingdom was quickly declining, and Kung Ye instigated his own rebellion in present-day Kaesŏng in 898.
Also a prominent abolitionist, Spear organized the first Universalist antislavery convention and helped to oversee the stretch of the Underground Railroad which ran through Boston.
Rebellions Prophecies concerning Li Hong’s appearance have been used to legitimize numerous rebellions and insurgencies, all of which rallied around charismatic individuals claimed to be “Li Hong”.
The discourse between Origen and his Jewish counterpart does not seem to have had any consequences for either party.
The agreement called for establishing a committee consisting of a representative from Egypt, one from Britain, two Sudanese members, and a fifth member from a neutral nation, possibly India or Pakistan.
Originally the title Le'ul, which means "Your Highness", was only ever used as a form of address; however, in 1916 the title Le'ul-Ras replaced the senior office of Ras Bitwoded and so became the equivalent of a royal duke.
Gerald FitzMaurice FitzGerald (1335–1398), also known by the Irish Gaelic Gearóid Iarla (Earl Gerald), was the 3rd Earl of Desmond, in southwestern Ireland, under the first creation of that title, and a member of the Anglo-Norman dynasty of the FitzGerald, or Geraldines.
In the early 16th century the Kabbalist Abraham ben Eliezer ha-Levi suggested that the 'Rome' in the story was a small town in Galilee with the same name, and a bit later Moshe Alshich put the Messiah in paradise overlooking this town.
He rejected Confucianism and began propagating a fusion of Christianity, Daoism and millenarianism, which Hong presented as a restoration of the ancient Chinese faith in Shangdi.
Divine Truth teachings also focus on how to develop in love through an understanding of ethics and morality, and the respect of others’ free will.
Jews There are other verses in the old testament that Jews also believe in, and Ahmed al-Hasan has brought them up as his identifying text.
He ends the darkest, degenerating, and chaotic stage of the Kali Yuga to remove adharma and ushers in the Satya Yuga, while riding a white horse with a fiery sword.
Ann Lee (1736–1784), a central figure to the Shakers, who thought she "embodied all the perfections of God" in female form and considered herself in 1772 to be Christ's female counterpart.
Simple Gifts was composed in 1848 by Elder Joseph Brackett, on or about the time he moved to the Shaker community at Alfred, Maine.
Napoleon Bonaparte was believed to be still alive and hiding in Irkutsk, Russia, gathering an army to return and conquer the world.
Uses Music The King James Version of verse 6 from this chapter is cited as texts in the English-language oratorio "Messiah" by George Frideric Handel (HWV 56).
Motifs in multiple works are Marko and Ravijojla, Marko and his mother, Marko and Šarac, Marko shooting an arrow, Marko plowing the roads, the fight between Marko and Musa and Marko's death.
He himself often claimed to be a former member of Croatian elite counter-terrorist unit ATJ Lučko, but unit's members publicly refuted these claims, even saying that Pavlović embarrasses them.
The World Elijah Evangelical Mission (now known as Elijah's Ten Commandments Stone Country Korean Farmers) was a religious group founded in 1980 by a Chinese Korean man named Park Myung Hoo (朴鳴呼), with five levels of membership: God, Angel, General Secretary, Chief, and Director.
Between 1990 and 2001, he served eleven years of an eighteen-year sentence on a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conviction after he and several other Nation of Yahweh members were convicted of conspiracy for their ex-followers' role in more than a dozen murders.
'The Greatest Battle') is an apocalyptic war set to occur in the end times according to Islamic eschatology.
Buddhists believe that there will come a time of Dharma decline in which social order and morality will decline and the human lifespan will also decline.
References External links "Japanese court throws book at foot cult", Salon "Edited articles on the "Foot Cult" of Japan", Fullerton
Al-Nawadir: In his list, Sheikh Tusi mentioned a work by Bazanti with this title, and introduced Yahya ibn Zakaria ibn shiban as its narrator.
He led his followers into Garveyism by finding the charismatic metaphor: one the high priest, the other prophet, both leading the children of Israel out of exile.
The shrub was accorded the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Merit in 1926, and the Award of Garden Merit in 1993.
It measures 8–18 centimeters (3.1–7.1 inches) in length and 3–5 centimeters (1.2–2.0 inches) in diameter, and contains numerous flat, somewhat round seeds that measure approximately 3 millimeters (0.12 inches) in diameter.
Its usage in reducing heat, boosting energy, and aiding in diuresis was also mentioned in Li Shizhen's Ming dynasty Compendium of Materia Medica.
Paratylenchus projectus is a plant pathogenic nematode infecting several hosts including African violet, soybean, and sunflower.
Distribution and habitat Narcissus calcicola is endemic to Portugal and is found primarily in crevices of limestone outcrops and less frequently in rocky clearings, on the edge of holm oak groves or even under forest cover.
Dracaena pethera, synonym Sansevieria kirkii, also known as the star sansevieria or the snake plant, is a succulent plant native to Tanzania and the surrounding region in East Africa.
During the growing season, spring and summer, Maranta houseplants require moist soil and fertilization every month.
The Hardy Plant Society is a British charity that promotes the cultivation of hardy herbaceous plants.
Hawaiian Polystichum also spread through long-distance dispersal, with two separate dispersal events leading to the three Polystichum now observed in Hawaii.
Iris nectarifera is a species in the genus Iris, it is also in the subgenus of Iris and in the Oncocyclus section.
Pitch pine has a high regenerative ability; if the main trunk is cut or damaged by fire, it can re-sprout using epicormic shoots.
It is native to Mexico and northern Central America, and has been introduced to Cuba and the Dominican Republic.
The fruit is an oblong drupe 8 mm (0.31 in) long, green at first, turning red, then finally black at full maturity, and contains a single seed.
In nature, banana slugs, Ariolimax columbianus, are selective in their diet and were not observed to feed on this plant.
The showy, funnel-shaped flowers are produced in an umbel-shaped inflorescence, colored red, orange or yellow, sometimes with a faint, but very sweet perfume.
External links View a map of herbarium records of this species at the Australasian Virtual Herbarium View observations of this species on iNaturalist See images of this species on Flickriver.com == References ==
Furthermore, growers can clean up plant debris to help remove the bacterium by removing any infected plants.
praecox, it has up to 20 poisonous, strap-like leaves per plant which are arching and are not leathery.
Subspecies There are two subspecies (treated as distinct species by some botanists), intergrading where they meet in northern Turkey at about 36°E longitude: Caucasian fir (Abies nordmanniana subsp.
A thornless shrub with a restrained climbing habit, reaching at most 2 m (7 ft), and with attractive evergreen leaves, it is available from commercial suppliers.
They are in the same family (Melastomataceae) as a native shrub Melastoma affine, which is known as native lasiandra.
Once established it is also quite drought hardy, though it benefits from the occasional deep watering during the summer months.
The leaf blade of the leaves is leathery, 25–75 mm or 1–3 in (and rarely 125 mm or 5 in) long, 2 to 5 millimetres wide, oblong spatulate to lanceolate, obtuse with a pointed base.
They are normally grown in part shade to full sun, in well-draining but moisture retentive soils, rich in humus.
It is occasionally grown as an ornamental tree in warm temperate climates, including New Zealand, the British Isles and California, but is not common in cultivation.
Furthermore, mastic is also essential to myron, the holy oil used for chrismation by the Orthodox Churches.
Uses The wood is hard and heavy, of a yellow/brown colour, ideal for making posts, for woodturning and as fuel.
It is closely related to Juniperus oxycedrus (Prickly Juniper) of the Mediterranean region and Juniperus brevifolia (Azores Juniper) of the Azores.
and Cynoglottis serpentinicola (Rech.f.) Holub) – North Macedonia, northeastern Greece, and Asiatic Turkey == References ==
It has also been extensively interbred with Rosa gigantea to produce Rosa × odorata and by further hybridization the tea roses and hybrid tea roses, and is the source of summer-blooming varieties and those with continuous flowering.
External links Quercus coccinea images from Vanderbilt University Archived 2011-06-06 at the Wayback Machine Interactive Distribution Map of Quercus coccinea Archived 2010-08-24 at the Wayback Machine photo of herbarium specimen at Missouri Botanical Garden, collected in Missouri in 1932
The species is covered with enlarged epidermal cells, called "bladder cells", the main function of which is to reserve water.
Cultivation Carex flacca is cultivated by plant nurseries as an ornamental plant, planted for accent or as a groundcover in gardens and public landscapes.
Cacti form a monophyletic group and apart from one species are native only to the New World, the Americas, but through parallel evolution similar looking plants in completely different families like the Apocynaceae evolved in the Old World.
Its fruits (called areca nuts or betel nuts) are chewed together with slaked lime and betel leaves for their stimulant and narcotic effects.
chinense is often pickled and served as a side dish in Japan and Vietnam to balance the stronger flavor of some other component in a meal.
In Hungary, it is confined to a single locality on Szársomlyó Hill (also known as Harsányi Hill) in the Villány Mountains.
Drimys winteri, also known as Winter's bark, foye and canelo, is a slender species of tree in the family Winteraceae, growing up to 20 m (66 ft) tall.
The name derives from the Greek word: ναρκὰο, narkào (= narcotic) and refers to the pungent and intoxicating smell of the flowers of some species (some argue that the word derives from the Persian word نرگس and is pronounced Nargis, indicating that this plant is intoxicating).
grandis, and other red-flowered species are known to be naturally pollinated by birds such as honeyeaters.
Individual flowers are reddish-purple and are occasionally replaced by bulbils (again making this a potentially invasive species).
It is grown as an ornamental plant for its scented flowers; several cultivars have been selected with flower colour ranging from white to dark blue.
This plant, often referred to as one of the "jewel" Alocasias (along with several other diminutive Alocasia types), became increasingly popular among plant hobbyists between the years 2018 to 2020.
Sesleria autumnalis, commonly known as autumn moor grass, is a species of grass within the family Poaceae.
Iris junonia is a tall growing species, with a slender and stiff stem, or peduncle, that can grow up to between 20 and 65 cm (8 and 26 in) tall.
Holm oak is not officially listed as an invasive species in the United Kingdom but is naturalised, able to naturally regenerate.
It is known as a pioneer species and is often the first tree to vegetate a site after it has been cleared away.
In typical savanna climates with warm wet and dry seasons, such as southern Florida, zoysia grasses grow during the warm-wet summer and are dormant in the drier, cooler winter months.
Although the Eastern Cape blue cycad can reproduce by suckering, more commonly reproduction requires insect pollination.
It is a variable, rhizomatous perennial, growing to 30 cm (12 in) tall and broad, with crowded clumps of evergreen, strikingly-marked oval leaves, each up to 12 cm (5 in) long.
The leaves and the cheese last about the same time, three or four days, and thus fresh leaves are a sign of a fresh cheese, while dried out leaves indicate that the cheese is past its prime.
Under ideal growing conditions, Stromanthe sanguinea will reach 4–6 ft (1.2–1.8 m) tall in about a year after emerging from its rhizome.
Odontonema callistachyum, the purple firespike, is a species of flowering plant in the family Acanthaceae.
Taxonomy The first recorded description of the species is attributed to Giovanni Antonio Scopoli, who referred to it as Phleum autumnale in the second edition of his book, Flora Carniolica, which was published in 1771.
Each plant may bear up to 30, conical, narrow, bell-shaped flowers, up to 0.75 in (1.9 cm) long, ranging in colour from deep purple to greenish brown.
References External links Pacific Island Ecosystems at Risk (PIER): Ruellia brevifolia (in Portuguese) Ruellia brevifolia (Pohl) Ezcurra (Acanthaceae): flowering phenology, pollination biology and reproduction Rev.
Begonia bowerae, the eyelash begonia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Begoniaceae, native to Oaxaca and Chiapas states of Mexico.
Native to northwestern Turkey, including the western Pontic Mountains as well as Uludağ and other mountains southeast of the Sea of Marmara.
Some botanists posit that it may date back to the Riss and Würm glaciations, while others suggest a Tertiary origin, thus rendering it one of the last vestiges of the subtropical vegetation that once dominated the region.
A tree in Lyme, Connecticut, measured in 2012, had a circumference of 18 ft 3 in; 6 m, or an average diameter at breast height of about 5.8 feet (5 ft 10 in; 1.8 m).
The leaves are broad ovate on the lower part of the stem, slender lanceolate on the upper part of the stem.
In northern Haiti, it grows along the tributaries of the Trois Rivières between Gros-Morne and Port-de-Paix, while in the south, it is found along the eastern edge of the Massif de la Hotte, between Miragoâne, Fond-des-Nègres and Fond-des-Blancs.
However, it is now considered that this plant is not indigenous to that island, and the seeds came from cultivated plants in Norfolk Island or Sydney.
In the 1990s there was confusion over this heritage cultivar and an Italian Group cultivar with pale yellow background and orange blobs (correctly called C.
Dracaena bagamoyensis, synonym Sansevieria bagamoyensis, also known as snake plant is a succulent plant native to Kenya and Tanzania.
gastonis-bonnieri have thick green leaves more or less with brownish spots and often form plantlets at leaf tips.
Cultivation A chance seedling, from the garden of Sir Peter Smithers at Vico Morcote in Switzerland, with more vigorous growth and larger flowers has been described as Magnolia "William Watson".
At low elevations near sea level: Commercial production: Australia (Queensland and New South Wales), New Zealand.
It very closely resembles the smaller related species, Dracaena serpenta and the more distichous species Dracaena phillipsiae.
Morphologically it most closely resembles Prunus sargentii but its chloroplast genome is most similar to Prunus serrulata var.
Description It is a coniferous evergreen tree, growing to 15–25 m (rarely to 30 m) in height, forming a wide, dense, conical crown.
The species require high humidity, especially when it is warm, though they are very sensitive to overwatering, where they would wilt or have scab-like bumps on their leaves.
In temperate subtropical regions- Commercial production: It is planted on the highlands of South Africa.
Tulipa linifolia, the flax-leaved tulip or Bokhara tulip, is a species of flowering plant in the tulip genus Tulipa (Clusiana group), family Liliaceae, native to Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, northern Iran and Afghanistan.
Ecology In the 19th century, it was reported as a very common weed of European wheat fields and its seeds were inadvertently included in harvested wheat seed and then resown the following season.
Young plants need shelter from cold winds; however mature specimens are hardy down to −15 °C (5 °F).
Each flower consists of a tubular purple-green to brown-green calyx and four linear or subulate (awl-shaped) red-brown petals, about twice the length of the sepals.
Euphorbia lathyris, the caper spurge or paper spurge, is a species of spurge native to Asia in western China, Kyrgyzstan and Pakistan and introduced elsewhere.
The single palm-like stem produces terminal tufts of strap-shaped, recurved leathery leaves, sometimes hair lock-shaped in the ends, and with occasional panicles of small white flowers once the plant reaches over 10 years of age.
It is native to Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay, but is now naturalized in Florida, Colombia, South Africa, and Mauritius.
In 2011, it was listed on the European Red List of Vascular Plants of the IUCN as 'Data Deficient' (DD).
Description Melica imperfecta is a perennial grass growing up to 1.2 metres (3.9 ft) in maximum height, and is classified as a bunchgrass by lacking rhizomes and corms.
Campanula means "bell-like" referring to the bell-shape of its flowers, while pyramidalis means pyramidal or conical, which refers to its conical shape.
Taxonomy The genus Clematis was first published by Carl Linnaeus in Species Plantarum in 1753, the first species listed being Clematis viticella.
The tree also makes an excellent landscape tree in moist areas, especially along roads and ditches where a good amount of water can be available.
The fruit is used to treat common colds, diabetes, asthma, headaches, diarrhea, and gallstones, while the roots are used as a diuretic.
This event was celebrated nationally on 29 May as Oak Apple Day, which continues to this day in some communities.
The standards are obovate shaped, slightly purple veined, 7–8.5 cm (3–3 in) long and 3.7–4.2 cm (1–2 in) wide.
Nematodes feed on the roots of the infected plants, taking up the virus with them as they do and allowing for the virus to travel between plants.
If the buds do open and yield a yellow-orange color, rather than white, the flower turns brown rather quickly and dies.
It grows in loose sand rather than finer-grained silty or clay-rich soils and does not tolerate water-logging.
Prunus canescens, the gray-leaf cherry (and hoary cherry, although that name is also used for Prunus incana), is a species of cherry native to China, found in Hubei and Sichuan provinces.
Host plants Buddleja – Buddleia, butterfly bush Himantoglossum hircinum – lizard orchid Scrophularia – figworts Verbascum – mulleins References Bibliography Heath, John; A.
Narcissus abcissus blooms in late spring and grows on slopes and high mountain valleys of the Pyrenees along the French-Spanish border.
It allows the plant to receive the proper airflow, which enhances the plant to grow strong and well while also preventing the plant from any potential diseases.
The plant forms dense surface roots and penetrating deep roots that are colonized by beneficial organisms such as mycorrhizal fungi.
This plant is grown as an ornamental, and it has been crossed and bred to develop a wide array of variations.
The needles are in fascicles (bundles) of three, about 6–13 centimetres (2+1⁄4–5 inches) in length, and are stout (over 1 millimetre or 1⁄16 inch broad) and often slightly twisted.
Therefore, the subspecies is considered to be ‘Nationally Critical’ according to the criteria defined by Townsend and colleagues in 2008.
Industrial and practical uses include the plant's potential as a form of biofuel, dye, pest control, plant fertiliser, soap, and as a natural form of lighting or lamp oil (typically kerosene), as well as for leather and tanning.
Iberis sempervirens, the evergreen candytuft or perennial candytuft, is a species of flowering plant in the family Brassicaceae, native to southern Europe.
Guadalupe cypress cones will open without fire, while Tecate cypress cones differ from any other species of California Cypress, in that even once disconnected from the parent tree, they will not open without heat.
Hybridization with Kentucky bluegrass During the 1990s, botanists began experimenting with producing hybrids of Texas bluegrass and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) for use as wintering foraging plant for grazing livestock and as a drought-resistant lawn grass.
Spokane, Washington, known as the "Lilac City", which holds an annual lilac festival and lilac parade.
Conservation status Red oak is not listed in the CITES Appendices, and is considered a least-concern species by the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
The flowers are very pale pink and heavily tessellated with a white throat and prominent yellow anthers.
Toxicity Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), and if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting.
The species name ilex was originally the classical Latin name for the holm oak, but later adopted as a botanical genus name for the hollies.
Pinus coulteri was discovered by Coulter on the mountains of Santa Lucia, near the Mission of San Antonio, at latitude 36°, within sight of the ocean and at an elevation between 3000 and 4000 feet above sea level.
Description It is an evergreen perennial growing to 8 metres (26 ft) in height, with an enormously expanded caudex for storing water.
In Western Asia, stocks were confirmed in Cyprus, Lebanon, the Palestine region, western Syria and western Turkey.
Description Growing to 6 m (20 ft) or more, it is an evergreen woody climber with oval leaves and clusters of pure white, waxy, intensely fragrant tubular flowers.
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory: Centre for Plant Biodiversity Research, Australian Government.
Cultivars The following cultivars have received the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit: 'Kelly's Eye' (pink) 'McDaniel's Cushion' (deep pink) 'Red Wings' (carmine red) See also Phlox stolonifera References Blanchan, Neltje (2002).
Acalypha hispida, the chenille plant, is a flowering shrub which belongs to the family Euphorbiaceae, the subfamily Acalyphinae, and the genus Acalypha.
References External links Media related to Ficus exasperata at Wikimedia Commons Antiarthritic and antioxidant effects of the leaf extract of Ficus exasperata P.
Description Mesembryanthemum crystallinum grows creeping stems, from 20–60 centimetres (8–23+1⁄2 inches) in length.
A virus-free selection was found in the 1950s and was certified and released in 1975 by the University of California as the 'Improved Meyer lemon' – Citrus × meyeri 'Improved'.
Some examples of acceptable substrate amendments for Alocasia (of all types) include perlite, pumice, small to medium orchid bark, coconut coir, coconut chips, sphagnum moss, LECA, or a combination of some or all.
Originally named Plectosphaera banksiae by Harry Swart, it was placed in the genus Phyllachora in 2001.
"The involvement of Narcissus hispanicus Gouan in the origin of Narcissus bujei and of cultivated trumpet daffodils (Amaryllidaceae)".
They are widespread in horticultural cultivation as ornamental trees, planted in gardens and parks around the world.
Branchlets at first downy, but soon become smooth, light yellowish green; later red brown, finally dark brown.
It is native to Japan, the Korean Peninsula, the Ryukyu Islands, and Taiwan, where it is common on rocky slopes and growing up the trunks of trees, especially in laurel forest, a type of cloud forest.
Nothofagus dombeyi, Dombey's beech, coigue, coihue or coigüe (from Mapudungun koywe) is a tree species native to southern Chile and the Andean parts of Argentine Patagonia.
In 1970 Elbert Luther Little published a paper where he argued that it was insufficiently distinct from Cupressus guadalupensis and therefore should be a variety with the name var.
Paeonia officinalis, the common peony, or garden peony, is a species of flowering plant in the family Paeoniaceae, native to mainly mountainous areas of Southern Europe and introduced in Central and Western Europe and North America.
Interns, aides, and other White House workers are often granted clippings of the famous plant which they grow and further distribute to friends and family.
The cultivar was named for the Caerhays estate's gardener, David Ivey, by Edgar Thurston in his book British & foreign trees and shrubs in Cornwall.
The tree is found only in the Santa Ana Mountains of Orange County and in San Diego County within Southern California, and in northern Baja California state of Mexico.
Lilium hansonii, known as Hanson's lily and Japanese Turk's-cap lily, is an East Asian species of plants in the lily family.
Betula maximowicziana, the monarch birch, is a species of birch tree native to the Kuril Islands and northern to central Japan.
The species tends to struggle without irrigation in arid climates such as the American West unless planted directly on or adjacent to a body of water such as a pond or stream.
Colchicum hungaricum, commonly known as the Hungarian crocus, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Colchicum.
In the British Isles it is popular in many parks and estates where it was introduced in the mid-19th century.
The pulchra variety has clearly more marked and partially prostrate leaves, with whitish green, buff-colored or almost reddish spots or irregular bands.
Activities The society aims to inform and encourage the novice gardener, stimulate and enlighten the more knowledgeable, and entertain and enthuse all gardeners bonded by a love for, and an interest in, hardy perennial plants.
The nymphs at their crawler stage may be transported by wind and it is possible that they, or the eggs, are sometimes carried on the legs of birds.
It should be grown in a loose potting soil, rich in organic matter and sand, and must be kept well-watered during the spring and summer.
References External links Data related to Nothofagus obliqua at Wikispecies Media related to Nothofagus obliqua at Wikimedia Commons "Nothofagus obliqua".
Verticordia nitens, commonly known as Christmas Morrison and other names, is a flowering plant in the myrtle family, Myrtaceae and is endemic to the south-west of Western Australia.
Distribution The species occurs naturally in parts of southern and central Africa, including South Africa, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Angola.
Artemisia schmidtiana, common name silver mound, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to Japan but widely cultivated as an ornamental.
The fruit is of low to zero toxicity, but may cause vomiting or diarrhea if consumed unripe or in large quantities.
The plant is also used in spells for prosperity, the flat pods (when ripe and silvery) resembling coins and therefore being seen as symbolising promises of wealth.
The best known cultivars are 'Fosteri', Foster holly, which does not require males to set fruit, and 'Savannah', with very showy red fruit.
It is a climber with large violet-purple blooms, still among the most familiar climbers seen in gardens.
Even Africa, the continent with the most native succulents, does not host many of the plants in its most dry regions.
Taxonomy For a general description of the taxonomic and nomenclature confusion, see Paghat's Garden, especially for the relationship between T.
Distribution and habitat Euonymus alatus′s native distribution extends from northeastern Asia to central China.
It bears 2 in (5.1 cm) long, nodding, tubular bell-shaped flowers that are apple green in colour, with blue anthers.
References External links Data related to Polystichum at Wikispecies Jepson Manual Treatment the Polystichum homepage
It is found at a wide range of elevations, generally in habitats that have limited competition from other plants.
Baja datura – Datura arenicola Black datura – Datura metel Hindu datura – Datura metel Leichhardt's datura – Datura leichhardtii Sacred datura – Datura wrightii Swamp datura – Datura ceratocaula Vizcaíno Desert datura – Datura arenicola Deadnettle – Lamium spp.
An ethanol leaf extract (tincture) has been shown to effectively inhibit the infection of Vero cells by HSV-1, HSV-2 and an ACV-resistant strain of the latter, in vitro.
Nothofagus obliqua, commonly known as Patagonian oak, roble, pellín, roble pellín, and hualle in its early state of growth or roble beech, is a deciduous tree from Chile and Argentina.
Ruellia brevifolia, the tropical wild petunia or red Christmas pride, is an ornamental plant in the family Acanthaceae.
Gallery References ANU Forestry Illawarra plum - Podocarpus elatus Bruneteau, Jean-Paul, Tukka, Real Australian Food, ISBN 0-207-18966-8.
See also Allium tuberosum, also known as garlic chives – Species of onion native to southwestern parts of the Chinese province of Shanxi Pickled onion – Onions pickled in a solution of vinegar or salt References External links Botanical drawing of Allium chinense at Tropicos.org "Allium chinense".
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, then updated on 3 December 2004.
It is cultivated as an ornamental in many countries and naturalized in Venezuela, Mexico, the West Indies, Ascension Island, Sri Lanka, Fiji, the Solomon Islands and the Society Islands.
Its spine-tipped leaves are 12-16mm thick, elliptical (rather than round) in cross-section, and pale to dark green depending on sun exposure.
Horticulture To produce flowers it sometimes is necessary to remove and save for propagation all side rosettes.
Seed manufacturers began marketing the first of these hybrids, often termed "heat-tolerant bluegrasses", in the first decade of the 21st century.
Hibiscus 'Albo Lacinatus' is a cultivar of Hibiscus that was hybridized no later than the late 1700s or early 1800s, making it one of the earliest Hibiscus cultivars.
From spring to early summer, the 1 inch wide, pale pink flowers are borne with yellow stamens in the center.
The plant flowers on the year's new growth, so pruning is best done in early spring, before the plant leafs out.
The eggs hatch into nymphs which crawl away from the mother along the branches to find foliage, where they start to suck sap.
The name is derived from the surname of German horticulturist Georg Arends who was responsible for nearly all hybrid cultivars sold in North America.
Ficus stephanocarpa (also meaning 'crowned fruit') as described by the German botanist Otto Warburg is a synonym.
As host plant American sycamore is the host plant of the sycamore tussock moth, a species that specializes in it, and a major host plant for the drab prominent moth.
A shrub or shrubby tree reaching 12 ft (4 m), it is hardy in USDA zones 3 to 7, and is recommended for borders, loose hedges, and foundations.
It is known to be toxic to Australian native stingless bees, such as Lipotriches (Austronomia) flavoviridis.
Lilium hansonii is named for Peter Hanson (1821–1887), a Danish–born American landscape artist who was an aficionado of tulips and also grew lilies.
The type collection was made from a Banksia integrifolia plant in Lake Tyers, Victoria (Australia) in May, 1986.
References Flora Europaea: Campanula pyramidalis Plants for a Future: Campanula pyramidalis Huxley, A., ed.
Inflorescence The almost sessile, small white flowers are fragrant, which occur from late winter to spring.
Wynter returned in 1580 with a supply of Drimys bark, and for centuries before vitamin C was isolated, "Winter's Bark" was esteemed as a preventive and remedy for scurvy— correctly so, for an infusion of D.
- Sicily, Malta, Albania, Greece, Turkey, Cyprus, Syria, Lebanon, Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco Allium sphaerocephalon subsp.
Friedrich Wilhelm Schultz gave the species its current name, Sesleria autumnalis in his book Archives de Flore.
In Central America and part of Southern Mexico, the flower is extracted in hot water and taken as tea for these medical purposes.
A large shrub or small tree, it is typically found on slopes, canyons, and streambanks at elevations from 500 to 6,000 m (1,600 to 19,700 ft).
The leaves are scale-like, 2–4 mm (0.079–0.157 in) long, blunt tipped (obtuse), green above, and green below with a white stomatal band at the base of each scale-leaf.
The species has been referred to by several heterotypic synonyms, including: Sesleria elongata, Aira alba, and Sesleria argentea var.
Zapata & Smagghe 2010 test the essential oils of bark and leaves and find that both are repellent and usable as a fumigant against Tribolium castaneum.
The colour of the flower comes from the Crozy side, but the petal form is heavily influenced by the thinner and larger C.
Intergeneric hybrid It is closely related to Fremontodendron, sufficiently to produce an intergeneric hybrid ×Chiranthofremontia lenzii Henrickson, which has yellow flowers and a reduced form of the claw.
Besides central and eastern China, Euonymus alatus also appears in Korea, in Japan, and on the island of Sakhalin in Russia.
The cultivars 'Adcock's Dwarf' and 'Bonnie Bergman' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Malus × robusta, called Siberian crab apple along with other members of its genus, is a hybrid species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
Description Cladrastis kentukea is a small to medium-sized deciduous tree typically growing 10–15 metres (33–49 ft) tall, exceptionally to 27 metres (89 ft) tall, with a broad, rounded crown and smooth gray bark.
Succulents can be propagated in a number of ways, with vegetative propagation being the most common.
Viburnum lantana, the wayfarer or wayfaring tree, is a species of Viburnum, native to central, southern and western Europe (north to Yorkshire in England), northwest Africa, and southwestern Asia.
Dracaena spathulata is a species of flowering plant in the family Asparagaceae, native to South Africa (KwaZulu-Natal), Mozambique, Zimbabwe, and Tanzania.
The iris has straight or slightly falcate (sickle-shaped), grey-green, glaucous, and sheathing leaves that can grow up to between 12 and 38 cm (5 and 15 in) long, and between 3 and 5 cm (1 and 2 in) wide.
Zephyranthes robusta, commonly known as the Brazilian copperlily, pink fairy lily or the pink rain lily, is a species of herbaceous flowering bulb in the family Amaryllidaceae.
Habitat Away from its native range, it is widely naturalised in many regions, where it is often considered an invasive weed.
Phlox subulata the creeping phlox, moss phlox, moss pink or mountain phlox, is a species of flowering plant in the family Polemoniaceae, native to the eastern and central United States, and widely cultivated.
The flowers are 8–9 cm (3–4 in) in diameter, they have a dingy-white, whitish, or pale background, which has many spots and dark veining, in black-purple, brown-purple, or brown violet, or brown shades.
Uses Culinary uses The plant is grown for its ornamental appeal but also for the edible oblong purplish fruits.
Decision The court held that, since other acts, such as the Tariff Act of 1930, specifically excluded aircraft in their definitions of a vehicle, the law must be interpreted narrowly.
Aftermath and recovery efforts This hack was notable as it was the largest successful breach of security for a major American city by ransomware, potentially affecting up to 6 million people.
It was later found that Mukonyi was in fear of being followed, and was trying to kill those whom he deemed to be a threat, in this case the passengers and crew on the flight.
CAPPS screening selected passengers for additional screening of their checked baggage for explosives.
Structure The institution is controlled by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action.
In 1978, after prodigious diplomatic efforts, NATO had convinced the Warsaw Pact states to sign an international convention on hijacking, in which each signatory state promised to punish hijackers who landed in their territory.
Surface emitters When an ultra-short (100 femtoseconds or shorter) optical pulse illuminates a semiconductor and its wavelength (energy) is above the energy band-gap of the material, it photogenerates mobile carriers.
In addition, Canada's access to information system revealed that the US "Tuscan" (Tipoff US/Canada) database is provided to every Canadian border guard and immigration officer; they have the power to detain, interrogate, arrest and deny entry to anyone listed on it.
At the time, 117 officers were on duty at the airport: 9 carabinieri, 46 customs officers and 62 State Police officers, of which 8 were employed in the anti-sabotage service, a negligible number for an intercontinental airport like Fiumicino.
Colombian Defence Minister Diego Molano denounced the incident as a terrorist attack by left-wing guerillas based in Venezuela.
The attack was also linked to the recent sentencing in Spain of two Shiites to 23 years in prison for the attack on a Libyan diplomat the previous year.
See also Toluene Dinitrotoluene Nitrobenzene Trinitrotoluene References External links CDC - NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards - m-Nitrotoluene CDC - NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards - o-Nitrotoluene CDC - NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards - p-Nitrotoluene
The Kuwaiti authorities, after questioning the terrorists, decided not to put them on trial and considered the possibility of handing them over.
Timeline of the case On 6 February 2000, a group of nine Afghan men led by brothers Ali Safi and Mohammed Safi fleeing the Taliban regime hijacked Ariana Afghan Airlines flight 805 a Boeing 727 aircraft registration YA-FAY with 180 passengers and seven crew.
The "time served" sentence, writes Stern, was the only method by which he could protect Tiede from the State Department.
Structure and capacity Avianca has its own lounge with different services such as Wi-Fi, different environments, satellite television, bar meals, air conditioning and various entertainment materials.
The Protocol makes it an offence to commit similarly violent, dangerous, or damaging acts in airports that serve civil aviation.
With a total of 270 people killed, it is the deadliest terror attack in the history of the United Kingdom.
On 1 July 1994, a Fokker F28 was lost in an accident while landing at Tidjikja Airport during a sandstorm.
Pilots and flight attendants are advised of their presence, and the officer is authorized to physically intervene should an unauthorized person attempt to gain control of an aircraft.
The convention does not apply to customs, law enforcement or military aircraft, thus it applies exclusively to civilian aircraft.
The APS can undertake initial response to all criminal offences under the Airports and Aviation Acts 1936 to 2004, airport byelaws and other legislation within the airport.
Two Ilyushin Il-18s were bought in 1969, with the Soviets providing training and technical assistance; these aircraft were flown to Dakar, Nouadhibou and Las Palmas.
This case is widely regarded as a strong example of the use of the canon of ejusdem generis ("of the same kind, class, or nature").
Shortly thereafter, the TSA announced a successor program, called Secure Flight, that would work in a way similar to CAPPS II.
{\displaystyle v_{\text{d}}=KE.} After making the necessary adjustments to account for the n0 standard gas density, ion mobilities are often expressed as reduced mobilities.
A chance remark by a passing airman brings up the topic of Hugh Conway, a British consul in Afghanistan, who disappeared under odd circumstances.
GC columns operated in the field are prone to degradation from atmospheric gases and oxidation, as well as bleeding of the stationary phase.
Lost Horizon became a huge popular success and in 1939 was published in paperback form, as Pocket Book #1, making it the first "mass-market" paperback.
Towards assessing best practice, the US Coastguard reviewed the system and wrote a brief summary report in 2006.
The serum's effect wears off, and Rastapopoulos escapes; Krollspell, eager to stay alive, continues to accompany Tintin and Haddock.
Defense Minister Moshe Dayan and Transport Minister Shimon Peres, who would become Prime Minister and later President of Israel, conducted negotiations with the hijackers while preparing a rescue operation, code-named "Operation Isotope".
Now that the sensors know what point to scan, the mission specific hardware, software, and firmware components installed in the ASTAMIDS can successfully detect mines buried under the surface.
Aviation Security Officers were fully integrated into the airport's staff structure, so that (unusually) the airport security had no management grades with sworn constables carrying out the duties of their office on the ground, but reporting to managers who shared their security powers.
Hemus Air Flight 7081 was the hijacking of a Tupolev Tu-154 operated by Hemus Air on 3 September 1996.
The Salvadoran government criticized the group for not letting the trial happen at a government tribunal.
Terahertz radiation can thus be manipulated spatially using optical components such as metal-coated mirrors as well as lenses made from materials that are transparent at THz wavelengths.
Since no state claimed authority to try him, Wong was released without trial from Macao Central Prison on 11 June 1951, and was then deported to China.
The Selectee list has been cited by civil liberties groups to be infringing on privacy rights and potential for racial and ethnic discrimination.
In May 2023, the RCMP is given more funding to establish more close protection units for politicians, depending on risk assessment.
Members of the Airport Police are required to transfer custody of their prisoners over to the Garda Síochána for investigation and if warranted, to be prosecuted by the Director of Public Prosecutions.
The nationalities of 30 other passengers and the nine crew members were not immediately known at the time.
He was brought to court by the Macau police, but the Macau court suggested that the prosecution should be brought in Hong Kong instead, since the plane was registered in Hong Kong and most of the passengers were from there.
In the test nitration of anhydrous glycol (100g) with 625g of mixed acid HNO3 40% & H2SO4 60% at 10-12°, the yield was 222g and it dropped to 218g when the temp was raised to 29-30°.
Cúcuta Airport at OurAirports Aeronautical chart and airport information for Camilo Daza - Cucuta Airport at SkyVector "Current weather for Cucuta / Camilo Daza".
The Tupolev Tu-154 aircraft was a wet lease flight operated by Balkan Bulgarian Airlines for Hemus Air; it had 150 passengers and 8 crew members.
He also noted that the scene of the extraterrestrial spacecraft bore similarities with the depiction of the alien ship in the 1977 film Close Encounters of the Third Kind, highlighting that the film's director, Steven Spielberg, was a known fan of The Adventures of Tintin.
TIMS operates in the pressure range of 2 to 5 hPa and replaces the ion funnel found in the source region of modern mass spectrometers.
By March 1975 (1975-03), the government of Mauritania was the major shareholder of the company (60%), with the balance evenly split between Air Afrique and UTA.
However, in December 2006 (2006-12), the government of Mauritania created another carrier, Mauritania Airways, with the aid of private Mauritanian investors and Tunisair, which became the major shareholder (51%) of the newly created airline.
CAPPS has been demonstrated to reduce the effectiveness of searching below that of random searches, since terrorists can test the system and use those who are searched least often for their operations.
Despite Wehelie's offer to FBI agents to allow them to accompany him on the plane, while shackled, he was not permitted to fly.
Police vehicles may contain a variety of equipment, which can include traffic cones, road signs, defibrillators, traffic speed guns and the like.
The radio operator and the flight mechanic had been killed and a steward knifed and shot by the hijackers.
The Fido explosives detector provides near real-time, almost instantaneous analysis of the sampled air by registering the intensity of the photomultiplier tubes, which is inversely proportional to the mass of analyte that binds to the polymer films.
They included 17 Americans (plus a baby), 13 Japanese, four Italians, four French, three Indians, two Iranians, two Israelis, two Sri Lankans, an Australian and a Canadian.
Target acquisition minefield detection system (also known as the "Airborne standoff minefield detection system", or ASTAMIDS) is a bomb-detection system engineered to detect improvised explosive devices (IED).
The incident occurred on-route from Beirut International Airport in Lebanon to Varna Airport in Bulgaria.
Army in 2005, and the Packbot robotic platform with the integrated Fido explosives detector received the same award in 2006.
Following the September 11th attacks, which resulted in the creation of the TSA, the NEDCTP was transferred from the FAA to the TSA and was completed by March 2003.
They hoped this new system would reduce the number of people accidentally being matched to a watch list.
The APD was formed as the Airport Police Division on 1 November 1970 when the Singapore Police Force took on responsibility for airport security at Paya Lebar Airport.
The size and contents of the list fluctuates and is a secret, although the Transportation Security Administration has stated there are tens of thousands of names on it.
After boarding the three liberated men, the plane was redirected to Tripoli, Libya where all hostages were finally released.
Creation and entry into force The convention was adopted by the International Conference on Air Law at The Hague on 16 December 1970.
Pat-downs of fans entering arenas for National Football League and metal detectors at Major League Baseball games have also been criticized as security theater.
However, a spokesman for TWA said sabotage was "highly unlikely." Later, the National Transportation Safety Board determined that the plane was indeed destroyed by a bomb hidden in the cargo hold, which caused structural failure resulting in uncontrollable flight.
The series is created by Jason George who is also credited as an executive producer of the series alongside, D.J.
Having completed aviation security training they were sworn in by an Isle of Man Commissioner of Oaths as aviation security officers and received warrant cards as sworn constables, assuming the title of Aviation Security Officer.
Cybersecurity firm RiskIQ, among others, linked the attack to the web-skimming group known as Magecart.
TSA published the Secure Flight Final Rule on October 28, 2008, which went into effect on December 29, 2008, creating the Secure Flight program.
Organisation The Aviation Security Service was established as a result of the addition of Annex 17 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation which required that passengers and baggage be screened for weapons.
The breach was a high-profile test of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for a major airline.
The statement said that the breach had been resolved, the website was operating functionally, and that British Airways had notified the police and relevant authorities and was contacting affected customers.
In June 2018, it was estimated that a third of the software programs used by the city remained offline or partially disabled.
This not only applies to the extremely specific measures, but can also involve possible tactics such as switching from using highly scrutinized airline passengers as attackers to getting attackers employed as airline or airport staff.
Dr Richard Browne, director of the National Cyber Security Centre, said "We have all of the technical details from the incident, and we know, or we believe we know, who the actual group is.
Kevin Hart makes a cameo appearance as federal air marshal Dinkley in the 2019 action comedy Hobbs and Shaw starring Dwayne Johnson and Jason Statham.
With this technique, it is possible to boost the generated frequencies to 40 THz (7.5 μm) or higher, although 2 THz (150 μm) is more commonly used since it requires less complex optical setups.
CTX-5500DS The CTX-5500DS is an automated explosives detection system that uses computed tomography to characterize materials in checked bags and automatically identify objects that could be improvised explosive devices.
The Guardian has been under development since 2001 but was introduced commercially after Entry Scan and The Sentinel.
The hostages were flown to Cyprus and then to Rome's Leonardo da Vinci Airport, where on 28 September they met President Nixon, who was conducting a State visit to Italy and the Vatican.
One hour later, a suitcase exploded again on the runway, resulting in the deaths of two police officers.
See also Full body scanner Millimeter wave scanner Backscatter X-ray Explosives trace detector == References ==
Salla's girlfriend is employed at the airline's Delhi office, and he hoped the closure would make her return to Mumbai.
Canines and training The TSA sources their canines from the Department of Defense Military Working Dog program.
The Fido explosives detector is considered the first artificial nose capable of detecting landmines in the real world.
Air India Limited split its engineering and cargo businesses into two separate subsidiaries, Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL) and Air India Transport Services Limited (AITSL) in 2013.
The book was adapted into a film, also called Lost Horizon, in 1937 by director Frank Capra; and a musical film remake in 1973 by producer Ross Hunter with music by Burt Bacharach.
On February 18, 2023, it was reported that the searches for the Alaska, Yukon and Lake Huron objects had all been abandoned.
However, the airline shut down the Frankfurt hub on 30 October 2010 because of high operating costs.
History Airlines previously pre-screened passengers using CAPPS by comparing names to government watch lists and communicating with law enforcement (and later TSA) about suspected passengers.
The Skies Belong to Us: Love and Terror in the Golden Age of Hijacking is a 2013 narrative nonfiction book by the American author Brendan I.
Kennedy ordered federal law enforcement officers to be deployed to act as security officers on certain high-risk flights.
The male hijacker turned around, pointing a nickel-plated .38 revolver and a hand grenade at Swinkles and yelled "Get back!
Constitution The Canadian Air Transport Security Authority was officially formed on April 1, 2002, following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 at the United States.
Despite no suspects being identified or indicted until November 2018, the SamSam hackers were described as "opportunistic".
The device was invented by clinical pharmacist Jacques Bauer and former scientist Ilija Lakicevic and marketed by alternative medicine activist Sacha Stone.
The accounts allowed the attacker to access only a limited set of applications and data within a virtual environment provided by the Citrix platform, which British Airways used to let staff and partners run internal applications over the internet.
The ICO said "People have a right to expect that organisations will handle their personal information securely and responsibly.
The Republic of China signed and ratified the agreement; in 1980, the People's Republic of China approved the treaty with a statement that it declared the Republic of China's actions with respect to the convention "null and void".
Applicants may also choose to have an image of their iris taken if they wish to use an iris image as an alternative to a fingerprint scan at the security checkpoint.
The Secure Flight program was introduced in August 2007, which proposed requiring airlines to send passenger information to the TSA for comparison against watch lists.
AAP in a special drive freed the occupied car parking which enhanced the beauty of the airport as well as reduced the chance of the middlemen to harass passengers and visitors.
CTX-2500 The CTX-2500 is a small-sized explosives detection system that is half the length of earlier CTX models.
Creation and entry into force The convention was adopted by the International Conference on Air Law at Montreal on 23 September 1971.
British Airways Flight 2069 was a scheduled passenger flight operated by British Airways between Gatwick Airport, England and Jomo Kenyatta Airport, Nairobi, Kenya.
Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, Congress passed the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (Pub.
The Director General, BCAS is responsible for the development, implementation and maintenance of the National Civil Aviation Security Programme.
Systems similar to SIDA identification card system exists in Australia (known as Aviation Security Identification Card or ASIC) and in Canada (known as Restricted Area Identity Card or RAIC).
Brown, 2007–2011 Chief Gary McLhinney, 2003–2007 Chief Larry Harmel, 1997–2003 Chief Edward Hechmer, 1982–1997 Acting Commander Lionel Foote, 1981–1982 Major Walter Wallace, 1977–1981 Captain John J.
So this is the wholesaler or the reseller of the malware, we don't know who actually conducted the incident." He also said "This will be an affiliate, basically a customer of the ransomware family and they will go out and actually conduct the incident.
Unfortunately, Bermuda was still feeling the effects of the recession of the early 1990s, and this had led to a reduction in the manpower of the Bermuda Police Service.
Conspiracy theorists have claimed that the technology has been secretly fitted to some commercial airliners.
In October 2006, CBS News' 60 Minutes reported on the program after it obtained a March 2006 copy of the list containing 44,000 names.
After the refusal of the two detainees to join the commando, they limited their demands to just refuel and leave.
The Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing (German: Bundesanstalt für Materialforschung und -prüfung), or BAM, is a German research institute in the field of materials science.
The Ethicist – Watch Yourself EPIC: Documents Show Errors in TSA's "No Fly" and "Selectee" Watch Lists
Steven Smith, inventor of the body scanner in 1991, stated that the concerns of Brenner and UCSF regarding the skin dose of backscatter scanners is incorrect and the result of a confusion between dose and imaging penetration.
North American sightings After the sightings of a Chinese balloon in 2023 (later shot down off the coast of South Carolina), the U.S.
Similarly, the Chicago Transit Authority police's deployment of random explosive-residue-swabbing checkpoints at public transit stations has been criticized as an ineffective means of security.
It also required that aviation security be maintained through patrols of operational security areas and having trained officers available to respond to breaches of aviation security.
GC–MS has been regarded as a "gold standard" for forensic substance identification because it is used to perform a 100% specific test, which positively identifies the presence of a particular substance.
Safety concerns, including the possibility that such a system could be hacked, have prevented its roll-out.
This renovation improved the air terminal infrastructure, provided a more contemporary design, and made air traffic safer with a powerful light at night.
The output of the sensor is characteristic of the ion mobility distribution and can be used for detection and identification purposes.
Its competences are to improve safety in technology and chemistry through research and development, testing, analysis, approvals, advice, and information.
Six hostages were kept because they were men and American citizens, not necessarily Jews: Robert Norman Schwartz, a U.S.
Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said "these hijackers committed serious crimes which should make them incompatible with refugee status" and argued that the problem was of the Labour government's "own creation" due to their introduction of the Human Rights Act 1998.
2021 attack At around 5:00 A.M., on December 14, 2021, explosive substances being carried by a man trying to climb an airport fence detonated.
Ahead of the series release, Tatlıtuğ appeared as Arman in an episode of the second season of Into the Night, revealing the in-development series to be a spin-off of Into the Night, set concurrently with the first two seasons and titled Yakamoz S-245.
It is designed for use by first responders, homeland security, law enforcers and forensic chemistry personnel for immediate identification of unknown solids, liquids, and mixtures.
The plane heads west in an attempt to survive this catastrophe that kills all living organisms during daylight hours.
Privacy TSA has stated it will not collect or use "commercial data" to conduct Secure Flight watch list matching.
From 1995 to 1997, the CTX-5000 was tested to solve the challenges involved in integrating an explosives detection system into a baggage system and to validate the estimated costs of wide-scale deployment of the systems.
It is responsible for owning, developing and operating several public airports and one public heliport located in and around Indianapolis, a city in Marion County and the capital of Indiana.
The Ministry of Justice decided on 28 April 1999 to return him to Lebanon, but this was not possible on 12 July, when he was released from prison.
The no-fly list is compiled and maintained by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) based on inputs from airlines.
The ACI-NA's members enplane more than 95 percent of the domestic and virtually all the international airline passenger and cargo traffic in North America.
Examples given included, for instance, the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the Oklahoma City and the Omagh bombings.
Airlines and destinations See also Transport in Colombia List of airports in Colombia References External links "Airport information for Camilo Daza International Airport" – via Great Circle Mapper.
Thereafter, officers are eligible for assignment to any of the Maryland Transportation Authority Police detachments located throughout Maryland.
Fikre that a complaint about being put on the No Fly List is not moot simply because the government later took the plaintiff off the List.
EasyJet said they had gone public to notify the nine million customers whose email addresses had been accessed to beware of phishing attacks and that it would notify everybody by 26 May.
It is similar to nitroglycerine in both manufacture and properties, though it is more volatile and less viscous.
See also List of law enforcement agencies in Maryland References External links The Maryland Transportation Authority Police Website The Maryland Transportation Authority Website Fraternal Order of Police Lodge #34, Maryland Transportation Authority Police
Officers holding the rank of inspector or above also wear peaked caps but with slight differences to denote their senior role.
Ethylene glycol dinitrate, abbreviated EGDN and NGC, also known as Nitroglycol, is a colorless, oily, explosive liquid obtained by nitrating ethylene glycol.
Gallery See also List of accidents and incidents involving commercial aircraft List of aircraft hijackings List of terrorist incidents Terrorism in Europe References Sources Death in Rome Aboard Flight 110, TIME, 31 December 1973.
The hijackers drove a van that had been modified to look like an airport security vehicle, fitted with a siren and flashing lights.
They provide music for official Airport functions (such as graduation ceremonies at the Airport Police and Airport Fire & Rescue Service) the band undertakes a community-oriented programme each year performing at schools, festivals and charity events.
A constable gave evidence that in his opinion officers were being deliberately victimised and targeted because they had stood up to bullying by the named ADO.
In 2011, the TSA began to use the entire Terrorist Screening Database instead of being limited to the No Fly List or Selectee List.
Nawaf al-Hazmi and Salem al-Hazmi were selected because they did not provide adequate identification, and had their checked bags held until they boarded the aircraft.
Security screening Avsec undertakes pre-boarding security screening of passengers (and their carry-on baggage) travelling on all international flights as well as domestic flights that operate using aircraft with seats for 90 or more passengers.
Specifications Performance The Fido explosives detector can collect samples using one of three methods.
2010 Protocol In 2010 in Beijing, the Protocol Supplementary to the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft was adopted.
Wail al-Shehri and Satam al-Suqami were selected for extra screening of their checked bags before they boarded American Airlines Flight 11 at Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts.
Ranks The following are the rank insignias used by CATSA Screening Officers: Controversy CATSA has been implicated by the Privacy Commissioner of Canada for collecting non-aviation security information from the travelling public.
In the United States, the raid’s coincidence with the American bicentennial sparked the "Entebbe Derby," a dramatic surge in media attention, books, films, and television portrayals.
The hijackers held a few passengers and flight attendants hostage, but surrendered five hours later.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan granted approval to Alclear to purchase Clear after it outbid Henry Inc.
In the second season, the remaining survivors secure their path to a NATO bunker in Bulgaria, where they seek refuge from the deadly rays of the Sun.
1990s March 8, 1996 – A Boeing 727 of Cyprus Turkish Airlines on a flight from Nicosia to Istanbul was hijacked by Ramazan Aydın to Munich, West Germany.
After completing a background check, being fingerprinted, and paying a $78 fee, travelers receive a Known Traveler Number (KTN).
Its Dynamic Screening (DS) capability offers flexibility by allowing manual or automatic switching between various screening modes.
The force also operates an emergency phone line for members of the public to contact them on, along with state-of-the-art police control rooms for the management and co-ordination of the airport's security operations and incident response.
Mononitrotoluene or nitrotoluene (MNT or NT), is any of three organic compounds with the formula C6H4(CH3)(NO2).
When the amount of information collected about the ions in a given gas chromatographic peak decreases, the sensitivity of the analysis increases.
Security measures - Substantial security measures are in place to protect CAPPS II or Secure Flight or other follow-on/successor programs from unauthorized access by hackers or other intruders.
They told the BBC that they were only able to notify customers whose details (credit card or email addresses) were stolen in April 2020.
The TSA refused to allow him to pass without this search and so he declined to travel and got a refund on his ticket.
The APD also administers the National Civil Aviation Security Programme, National Civil Aviation Security Training Programme, and National Civil Aviation Security Quality Control Programme.
The two hijackers bumped from the El Al flight boarded and hijacked this flight as a target of opportunity.
Kuwaiti authorities tried to deport him to the U.S., but the airline denied him boarding, presumably because he was on the U.S.
DHL mentions its use, and in 'Air Cargo World' it is described as a specifically UK and European approach to security.
Border Patrol at Port Isabel, Texas, and later went through recurrent yearly training in Brownsville, Texas.
Spin-off In October 2020, Netflix announced their upcoming Turkish slate to include a submarine-set limited series, described as a "fast-paced action adventure story", starring Kıvanç Tatlıtuğ, directed by Tolga Karaçelik, and written by Atasay Koç, Cansu Çoban, Sami Berat Marçalı and Jason George.
This disconnected the autopilot and resulted in a struggle between himself and Watson, causing the aircraft to climb sharply and stall from 42,000 feet (13,000 m), falling towards the ground at 30,000 feet (9,100 m) per minute.
A launch party for the publication of the book was held in Paris in May 1968, but was overshadowed by that month's student demonstrations and civil unrest.
He was particularly influenced by Robert Charroux's Le Livre des Secrets Trahis ("The Book of Betrayed Secrets"), which expounded the idea that extraterrestrials had influenced humanity during prehistory.
Several of these incidents had long-term geopolitical consequences, such as the Dawson's Field hijackings of 1970, which prompted international crackdowns on air piracy, and the Entebbe hijacking of 1976, which led to a military rescue operation by Israeli forces.
Premise Sam, a talented business negotiator, must use his skills to broker a peaceful end to a hijacking of a seven-hour flight from Dubai to London.
August 4, 1982: An Indian Airlines flight from Delhi to Amritsar was hijacked en-route by a Sikh militant with the help of a fake bomb.
Prior to the airport being opened to the public, the unit conducted anti-terrorist exercises in the facility.
In order to be effective, this practice must assume that 1) the ticket was bought under the passenger's real name (at which point the name was recorded and checked against the No Fly List), 2) the boarding pass shown is real, and 3) the ID shown is real.
The hijackers forced the crew to fly to Stansted Airport in Essex, England after stopovers in Tashkent, Aktobe and Moscow.
The final report of the National Commission on the Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States recommended that this watch list matching function be performed by the TSA instead of airlines.
Aircraft and crew Boeing 707-331B N8734 had its maiden flight in March 1969, and was purchased by Irving Trust Corporation before it was leased to TWA on April 7, 1969.
Nationalities on Flight 775 Hostage accounts Unnamed passengers later recounted their days as hostages.
According to reports, there is evidence that the polymers can amplify the quenching of the fluorescence reactions between 100- and 1000-fold compared to conventional quenching mechanisms.
In particular, the judgeship of the United States Court for Berlin was vacant except during the trial over which Judge Stern presided.
Furthermore, he is the author of scientific-research letters in literary criticism and historiography.
Among the alterations made to the story by translators Leslie-Lonsdale Cooper and Michael Turner were shifting Carreidas' birth from 1899 to 1906, and changing the location of Krollspell's medical clinic from New Delhi to Cairo.
Provincial counterparts Many provinces have a similar organization that is responsible for the protection of the provincial Lieutenant-Governor, the Premier, other members of the provincial cabinet, and members of the judiciary.
Unlike the no-fly list, which only applies to airports, Tuscan is used for every Canadian land and sea border, and visa and immigration application.
These scanners were first introduced at Auckland for international flights in June 2019 and at Dunedin for domestic flights in August 2019.
Functions Avsec's primary activities involve security screening as well as maintaining the security of restricted areas through patrols and an Airport Identity Card system.
Landing in Sofia, the hijackers handed over the airplane to the Bulgarian authorities and applied for political asylum.
As the Bermuda Police Service attempted to redirect its efforts to more traditional 'community policing', which required a greater manpower, it found itself short of constabulary.
Mary Leakey in 1938 that revealed substantial findings in different areas of the site and levels of occupations.
Roman Era – The Roman Era collection shows findings from the Palatinate, which once was part of the Roman province of Germania Superior (Upper Germany).
Although someone may have carried this weight from another house, the Bar Kathros family certainly had a house in Jerusalem, given their priestly position, and this one is a good candidate.
The displays include archaeological finds from tombs at Al Badiyah, Dibba Al-Fujairah, and Qidfa', with objects such as arrowheads, carnelian beads, and vessels.
The first speech is a historical overview in which he provides a moral rationale for the fall of the Shang dynasty (c.
The initial holdings were later moved to a newly built premises and the building was inaugurated on 12 October 1965.
The museum is a trust borne by the City of Speyer, the Evangelical Church of the Palatinate, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Speyer, the State of Rhineland-Palatinate, the Historical Society of the Palatinate, and the Bezirksverband Palz (County Association).
The museum contains the only Jewish artifact found in the UAE: a gravestone with an inscription referring to David, son of Moses, which was discovered in 1998 around the area of Shamal.
A Māori meeting house named Hinemihi (more fully Hinemihi o te Ao Tawhito), which provided shelter to the people of Te Wairoa village during the eruption, was relocated in 1892 to Clandon Park as an ornamental garden building and a souvenir of William Onslow, 4th Earl of Onslow.
Here, the King said that drinking wine in excess has made the Shang dynasty lose the Mandate of Heaven, grace, and the army, while the Kings of Zhou do not drink excessively even ceremonially.
This last museum has also developed a 'museum-without-walls' through a series of underwater wreck trails.
This museum was initially maintained in a part of a hospital located near Sri Maha Bodiya and Ruwanwalisa in Anuradhapura.
The archaeology of Romania began in the 19th century with the establishment of the Vasile Pârvan Institute of Archaeology in Bucharest in 1834 (since 1866 as part of the Romanian Academy).
In Singapore, they built a naval base at Sembawang, strengthened the air force and installed large 15-inch coastal guns.
The museum gained prominence in 1899 when its scientists unearthed the fossils of Diplodocus carnegii.
Jorge Castillo hired Maro Tejada, a student of archaeology at la Universidad del Valle, to classify his extensive collection.
Among these antiquities there is a model of the Abhayagiri Stupa, Jantāgara and Paṁcāvāsa building etc.
Nominated by the Northern Cape Rock Art Trust in 2006 as a Provincial Heritage Site, the Wildebeest Kuil rock art site was declared, on 19 September 2008, as the first new Provincial Heritage Site since the implementation, in 2000, of the National Heritage Resources Act.
The museum building is the Culture Palace, a monument of architecture from 1913, by the architect Ludovic Szantay.
On a visit to Jerusalem in 1981, he met Batya Weiss who encouraged him to bring his collection of Ancient Near Eastern Art from biblical times to Israel and establish a museum.
Collection The objects of the museum were displayed in four areas: The Main Hall on the ground floor The gallery on the first floor The Open Air Museum in the garden The Monumental Alley outside the museum building The ground floor Highlights of the collections included: The Taharqa statue.
Isan (or northeastern Thailand), once home to Ban Chiang, Dvaravati, Lopburi and Khmer civilizations.
Denis Weil, formerly Dean of the Institute of Design at the Illinois Institute of Technology, served as director in 2020-2023.
Statuette of a Wolf, from the 6th to 5th centuries BC, is a bronze cast figure discovered in Ayrum, Armenia.
In 1961, the Slovak Museum and the Slovak National Museum in Martin were merged into the Slovak National Museum, based in Bratislava.
In 1990, at the time of Namibia's independence, some 4000 of them (men then employed by the South African Defence Force together with their families) were flown to a tent-town at Schmidtsdrift, west of Kimberley.
There are no real attestations for growth of facial hair in the Egyptian culture even given the culture of hairlessness as a manifestation cleanliness.
Excavations, since the 16th century, but especially since the beginning of the 20th century, have occurred mainly in the area of Sa Portella (a residential district), the city forum and the tabernae, and in the theater.
Overview The museum is located inside the former Postal Services Palace, which also houses a philatelic museum.
Pollentia (Catalan: Pol·lèntia) was a Roman city founded by Quintus Caecilius Metellus Balearicus in the present city of Alcúdia, allegedly in the year 123 BC.
At that time the vault was open in the afternoon on Monday, Wednesday and Friday by prior appointment.
The town plan follows a regular rectangular layout organized along two main perpendicular street axes, linking the central forum to its main gates.
The rooftop (final floor) is a spacious terrace offering a wide view of the Nile, designed for the king to overlook the city of Helwan.
Building The museum is housed in the Palacio de la Real Aduana, which was constructed between 1805 and 1807.
In December 2010, the museum debuted a new permanent gallery with special collections of hand, shadow, and string puppets along with programmable lighting and original backgrounds.
Currently, the Rockefeller Museum holds thousands of artifacts ranging from prehistoric times to the Ottoman period.
Other collections include Baroque figurines; items from the Far East; design; book art; graphic art; photography; and antique pottery, weaponry and statues External links Home page (English version) Further reading Prestel-Museumsführer Museum für Kunst und Gewerbe Hamburg.
The earlier of the two, the Gate of Ptolemy III, is only partly conserved but retains traces of its paintwork.
The modern history collection contains documents, photographs, memorial objects from the Revolution of 1848 and the Union of 1 December 1918 of Transylvania with Romania.
Transformations reported by the photographs are not always obvious to understand for the untrained eye.
It was built to honor the 45 Christian martyrs executed between 1885-1887, with its design reflecting the historical and spiritual significance of the site.
History The National Museum began under French colonial rule as the Sudanese Museum, part of the Institut Français d’Afrique Noire (IFAN) under Théodore Monod.
In the Ancient Egypt exhibition there is a room dedicated to death, with mummies, sarcophagi, and a film showing the process of mummification.
The Museo Nazionale The most notable of its collections include: The two large, well-preserved 5th century BC Riace bronzes, found in the province of Reggio, are thought to be the most significant bronze sculptures from the Greek period and among the few survivors of works by its master sculptors.
In 2020, the Peabody Museum closed for its "first comprehensive renovation in 90 years." It reopened, with more than twice the exhibition space, on March 26, 2024.
The most active of the international support groups of the museum, the American Friends of the Israel Museum, raised $270 million in cash, of which $47 million is in endowment funds, and donated $210 million in the art from 1972 to 2008.
The Natural History Museum Vienna (German: Naturhistorisches Museum Wien) is a large natural history museum located in Vienna, Austria.
Renaissance art produced in the Netherlands, Flanders, France and Italy is on display in the next room.
Research and education The Research Institute of the Begin Heritage Center sponsors conferences, lectures and colloquia in cooperation with universities and other research centers.
Its location, initially in a ground-floor room near the center of the North Wing of the Cour Carrée, was changed several times during its relatively brief existence.
During an earthquake following the eruption on 20 July, on the road between Rotorua and Te Wairoa, a fissure was opened, where a post eruption pond had formed, that was 230 m (750 ft) long and up to 30 m (98 ft) deep.
Prehistory – The exhibits show the cultural, social and economical development in the Palatinate beginning from the earliest findings to the eve of the Roman occupation.
With its alternating layers of red brick and natural stone and its cross-mullioned windows, it typifies the regional style known as Mosan Renaissance architecture.
Worship Armenia's ancient belief of dogs was attributed to them being a guide for the dead souls towards the underworld and their ability to revive the dead.
Although little was known about their archaeological find contexts, Graf went as far as to ascribe the portraits to known Ptolemaic pharaohs by analogy with other works of art, mainly coin portraits.
As of 2008, visible cracks were threatening the building, which was also sinking due to groundwater.
The arts centre has presented exhibits on traditional Arabic calligraphy, the history of the country and the Emirates Mars Mission.
There are eleven dioramas in total: three on the ecology of Connecticut with plants and vertebrates, and eight depicting various regions around North America.
Its best-known exhibit is the ancient statue of the Greek Goddess Artemis retrieved from the temple of the goddess in Ephesus.
Some archaeology museums, such as the Western Australian Museum, may also exhibit maritime archaeological materials.
Exhibits are accompanied by the informative charts explaining the principal historical events associated with the Old Bridge.
The ministry had to go as far as send him an official warning to stop using government funds for anything other than buying antiquities.
However, problems with the remodeling surfaced, resulting in the viceroy naming Jose Eduardo Herrera to take over, and Peinado ended up in jail.
The historic building that hosts the museum has been renovated and restored to be suitable for displaying and displaying cultural relics and artifacts.
Directors From 1876, Superintendents: 1876–1884 Ferdinand von Hochstetter(1829–1884): the first superintendent of what was then the Imperial Natural History Museum, after having been, from 1860, professor of mineralogy and geology at the Imperial-Royal Polytechnic Institute in Vienna.
Vasarely Museum Hungarian artist, Victor Vasarely, donated a significant collection of his works to the gallery.
Collections are relating to Anatolian history, including the Early Bronze Age, Assyrian Colony Period, Hittite, Neo-Hittite, Urartian, Aramean, as well as Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Syrian, Iran, Palestinian and Ancient Arabian cultures.
Gates to the Temple of Medamud are two monumental gateways to the Ptolemaic-era phase of the Temple of Montu at Medamud, located to the north of Luxor on the right bank of the Nile.
Room 2 contains objects from the Early Bronze Age (3rd millennium BC) from Göltepe and the Kestel tin mines, as well as Middle Bronze Age pottery from the Assyrian trade colonies at Acemhöyük, near Çamardı.
Field Museum curatorial faculty and their graduate students and postdoctoral trainees use the collections in their research and in training e.g., in formal high school and undergraduate training programs.
Location The museum is situated opposite the central park of La Democracia, which is notable for its display of large prehispanic sculptures in the potbelly style.
Batumi Archaeological Museum (Georgian: ბათუმის არქეოლოგიური მუზეუმი) is an archaeological museum in the city of Batumi in Adjara, Georgia.
Exhibits include painted ceramic art of several regional styles depicting mythology, religion with god like figures containing hieroglyphic texts, and often indicating the owner of the piece and the artist.
With the growth in the number of artefacts, it became necessary to transfer them to a larger space, and the museum was opened in 1964.
The museum contains about 26 thousand archaeological pieces belonging to different indigenous cultures of Peru.
The National Museum of Antiquities, established in the 19th century, was merged into the Institute in 1956.
Carrowmore is the heart of an ancient ritual landscape which is dominated by the mountain of Knocknarea to the west.
History The museum was established in 1950 with the purpose to find, collect, keep and present the cultural and historical heritage of Mostar and Herzegovina.
Facilities The entrance hall to the museum has a map of the ancient city set into the floor, overlaid with glass marked with the streets of modern Guatemala City.
Drawings and prints The collection shows selected rotating exhibitions of its collection of 10,000 drawings and 100,000 prints originating mainly from the Esterhazy, Istvan Delhaes and Pal Majovsky acquisitions.
The collections form a unique reference and were only accessible to specialists until the late 1990s.
While the permanent exhibitions focus on the history of the Palatinate, the special ones can have general historical topics.
A central theme of the exhibition was urbanization as "a disaster inflicted on the Prehistory" and the upheavals of the Lebanese landscape.
Since 1967, the museum has been jointly managed by the Israel Museum and the Israel Department of Antiquities and Museums (later reorganized as the Israel Antiquities Authority).
Archaeological collection This collection contains all the objects obtained during excavations in the district.
Development Construction of the museum was first proposed by the Dirección General de Caminos ("Highways Department") in 1998 as part of its plans to build a highway from San Luis to Flores in order to offset any damage to Guatemala's cultural heritage caused by the construction project.
From 1965, the museum was housed in a series of masonry buildings designed by the Russian-born Israeli architect Alfred Mansfeld.
Its mouth is engraved with Taotie patterns and its four legs are engraved with animal face patterns.
It also has cannon-shaped gargoyles, which could be fired, but only with permission of city authorities.
Museum The building, one of the outstanding examples of the civil architecture in Turkey, was restored between 1988 and 2001.
The museum was estimated to reopen in 2027, but due to the budget cuts by Petteri Orpo's government affecting the Finnish Heritage Agency, the reopening has been postponed indefinitely.
References External links Objektsammlung des Historischen Museums der Pfalz Historischer Verein der Pfalz Homepage of the museum (English version) Archived 11 January 2019 at the Wayback Machine
References Further reading External links Museo Chileno de Arte Precolombino, official website (in Spanish)
The Iași Institute of Archaeology, founded in 1990 as part of the Romanian Academy, has taken over its publication.
Gallery References External links Niğde Museum Niğde Müzesi Archived 2017-01-24 at the Wayback Machine (Turkish) Many pictures of museum objects 37°58′06″N 34°40′21″E
The National Museum of Ras Al Khaimah (Arabic: متحف رأس الخيمة الوطني) is a museum located in the emirate of Ras al-Khaimah, in the north of the United Arab Emirates.
Next, there is the reproduction of the engraving representing the Bos Primigenius a bovid dating back around 11,000 years ago (thus from the final part of the Upper Paleolithic).
85–97{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Corsi, C.; De Dapper, M.; Deprez, S.; Vermeulen, F.
It was bolstered, however, by the 1958 creation of a Degree in Anthropology by the University of Buenos Aires, and the institution was subsequently transferred to the university's School of Philosophy and Letters.
The Ganot-Peschard has seven permanent rooms: the Lytic Stage, Loma San Gabriel, Chalchihuita Culture, Guadiana Culture, Aztatlán Culture, Rock Art and The Archaeological Method.
The museum has a permanent exhibition hall, a temporary exhibition hall and a mezanine with a display of 60 archaeological photographs taken between 1994 and 1996.
The Art Gallery branch of the museum (Sectia de Arta) is located in the opposite prefecture, on the other side of the park and on the corner of Str.
The site of one of these villages (Kokotaia) was utilised in the postulated rediscovery of the Pink and White Terrace locations.
Al Ain Museum (Arabic: متحف العين) is a museum located in the city of Al Ain, in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
The flourishing Roman town, lying in the Roman province of Lusitania, acquired its civitas statute in 44–45 AD, although there is some debate on whether it received its municipal status (municipium) during the reign of Nero, Lucius Verus or Vespasian.
Accordingly, the Assyrian Queen Semiramis, fascinated by the beauty of the Armenian King Ara, was trying to send him gifts.
The Iron Gates Region Museum (Romanian: Muzeul Regiunii Porţilor de Fier) is a museum in Drobeta-Turnu Severin, Romania.
The extensive Greek, Roman and Etruscan Collection comprises marble statues, small terra cotta statues, reliefs, pottery and other artifacts.
Before winter 1873, Yuan Baoheng (袁保恆; 1826–1878), a follower of Zuo Zongtang bought it for 700 taels of silver.
The collection comprises around 3,300 artifacts, including about 3,000 cuneiform texts spanning nearly 3,000 years and representing almost all periods and genres.
Most display cases and 49 pieces out of more than 200 silver objects in the museum's Silver Room were damaged in the explosion, although most of them only mildly.
Ethnographic materials obtained in scientific and discovery expeditions were also incorporated into the Royal Cabinet.
Collections The museum's collections were from Archaeological discoveries since 1968 in the emirate of Ras Al Khaimah, partially donated by city residents and the Quwasim family.
Tamayo left the museum to his native state of Oaxaca, for his fellow Mexicans awareness of their rich cultural heritage.
The Curtius Museum (French: Musée Curtius) is a museum of archaeology and decorative arts located on the bank of the river Meuse in Liège, Belgium.
See also Open-air museum List of museums Types of museums Museum of Archaeology and History of Le Mans == References ==
The section "Antiquity" contains an important collection of Greek vases (about 1,500 vessels) and stones with inscriptions.
Maybe these are the skeletons of the guardians, pro tempore, of this sacred place, which has bovine engravings that are the images used during the rites before the hunt.
William Mulloy, an American archaeologist, the library’s collection focuses on Rapa Nui and Polynesian Studies, especially the prehistory, history, ethnology, archaeology, cultural anthropology, osteology and geology of Easter Island.
The museum originated in 1911 as the Municipal Museum of History and Art (Museo Civico di Storia e d'Arte).
The AIATSIS collections not only contain priceless records of Australia's Indigenous cultural heritage, but provide a significant national and international research infrastructure for research by, for and about Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
The prosperous oppidum was destroyed along with other Celtic settlements in Slovakia around the beginning of the Common Era either by the Germanic tribe of Quadi or by Dacians.
A feasibility study was carried out in order to assess the possibility of installing the museum in this tower and on the adjacent area.
Components The above definition was made by EXARC, a global network of professionals for those active in archaeological open-air museums, experimental archaeology, ancient technology and interpretation, using ICOM's definition of museums.
In November 2021, Yale University announced that admission will be free "in perpetuity" once construction is complete.
The small farmhouse is close to the R292 road, approximately 2 km (1.2 mi) east of Ransboro crossroads.
It has a collection composed mainly of replicas of Egyptian pieces belonging to several different periods.
Most of the sites are "satellite tombs" which surround the largest monument, placed on the high point of the plateau, the cairn (now restored) called Listoghil.
Most of the Muisca artefacts are housed in the Gold Museum, Bogotá, the museum with the most golden objects in the world.
Coins and currency circulating in Uzbekistan from the third century BC (the Greco-Bactrian_Kingdom) to the present day are represented.
The museum is structured into many scientific sections: Ancient History and Archaeology, Medieval History, History of Basarabia, Contemporary History, Treasures.
The museum is at the same time a site of cultural heritage and an academic institution, promoting critical analysis of traditional belief systems.
In 1938, under the lead of the historian Ion Berciu, the settlement came to be managed by the Romanian state under the new name of Alba Regional Museum.
The National Museum of Finland (Finnish: Suomen kansallismuseo, Swedish: Finlands Nationalmuseum) is a museum in Helsinki presenting Finnish history from the Stone Age to the present day, through objects and cultural history.
One hundred and twenty people died in the eruption, many of them in other villages closer to the volcano.
The museum is or has been active in excavations at Köşk Höyük, Porsuk Hüyük, Kestel, Göllü Dağ, Andaval, Eskigümüş and Kınık Höyük.
The Jebel Barkal Museum is an archaeological site museum located on the eastern side of the archaeological area of Jebel Barkal at Karima in the Northern State of Sudan.
It was used as a residence pavilion for officers, and between 1967 and 1968, it was refurbished to become a museum.
In the second hall, there are two display cases exhibiting items related to the Ottoman and modern Turkish periods.
Chile Route 1, known locally as Ruta 1, is a longitudinal national route that is located in the Norte Grande of Chile, in the regions of Tarapacá and Antofagasta.
On the northern side there are several steps that indicate a straight line smooth route down towards the water spring.
It contains objects found at sites in the surrounding area, including the tell of Köşk Höyük and the Graeco-Roman city of Tyana, both in the nearby town of Kemerhisar.
Beal and Executive Vice President Anne Erickson received significant raises in 2014 and $50,000 bonuses in 2013 raised concerns among Wayne, Macomb and Oakland County residents.
To display them, a small museum was built in 1903 to the north of the Ananda Temple, where ancient stone inscriptions were displayed.
Cultural phases across sites While Ter Khala Deri and Akra represent the most important sites along with the Neolithic Sheri Khan Tarakai site wherein efforts have been primarily focused as of recent.
Mohamed became interested in local archaeology from childhood, whilst Najla studied archaeology and art at Gaza University.
They can include stone epigraphs; statues; architectural elements such as columns, cornices, and acroterions; bas reliefs, tombstones; and sarcophagi.
A cuneiform inscription testifies that the city was built by Argishti I the King of Urartu in 782 BCE.
The statue was broken by the Egyptians when they sacked Napata in 591 BCE under the reign of Psamtik II, then buried in a pit by Kushite priests and excavated by George Reisner in 1916.
Temporary exhibitions Fantastic Bug Encounters!* TBA Bloodsuckers: Legends to Leeches* TBA Unseen Oceans* TBA Reptiles Alive!* TBA Includes live animals.
The New Zealand Ministry for Culture and Heritage gives a translation of 'the long stream' for Te Wairoa.
Collections The museum contains artifacts from various indigenous cultures of Peru, these are the Inca, Nazca, Chincha, Wari and Paracas.
The museum houses the most important collection of Cucuteni culture artifacts and it is the home of the Cucuteni Research Centre.
A collection of Miletian, Greek-Macedonian, Seleucid, Parthian, Roman, Sasanid, Byzantine, Arabic, and Seljuk gold, silver, and copper coins which have circulated in Armenia.
The new baths took over a whole insula by demolishing houses, which may have been made easier by the earthquake that had damaged these houses.
The first post-eruption house (Tikitapu Cottage) was built at Te Wairoa in 1904, by Guide Cromwell Shepherd.
The renovation more than doubled the exhibition space, added 10 classrooms, and included a new education center for K-12 students.
The robbers left traces of their passage, as in a house where modern archaeologists found a wall graffito saying "house dug".
The museum complex includes the historic Sultan Fort, which dates back to the early 20th century and forms an integral part of the site.
The museum was founded with the aim of showcasing objects that were previously used by traditional medicine practitioners who had been converted to Christianity.
See also List of museums in Saudi Arabia References External links Media related to Jeddah Regional Museum of Archaeology and Ethnography at Wikimedia Commons
See also List of museums in Argentina References External links Official website Media related to Museo de Arqueología de Alta Montaña at Wikimedia Commons
Rescue parties met them on the way and some of the able-bodied chose to return to Te Wairoa to aid in digging out the buried.
It held a vote and decided that the acquisition was unnecessary, since they had already acquired a pretty substantial collection from the bequest of Wagner and some subsequent purchases.
At Te Wairoa after the eruption, the ash depth was 0.8636 m (2 ft 10.00 in), and one of the deeper layers was in a very wet state.
This is because Roman male was advised to avoid excessive attention to hairstyles as he may be criticized for unmanliness.
In 2009, the museum had moved to a new location and was reopened as the National Archaeological Museum Aruba.
the vase has been dated to the Late Classic and is of the Paixban variety of the Paixban Ante Polychrome ceramic type, belonging to the Zacatal-Joyac ceramic group.
His passion for antiquity, fuelled by his travels to the Mediterranean area, led to his assembling a collection of plaster casts from 1877 to 1895.
The Menachem Begin Heritage Center is the official state memorial commemorating Menachem Begin, Israel's sixth Prime Minister.
Collections and exhibitions Al Ain Museum features nine permanent galleries that present the archaeological, environmental, and cultural history of the Al Ain region from prehistoric times through the modern era.
The museum also has a laboratory for conservation and preservation of objects of cultural heritage and history.
The bibliography covers archaeology, history, arts, ancient Greek religion and ancient Greek philosophy, as well as Ancient Greek and Latin literature.
Rifnik Hill (pronounced [ˈɾiːfnik]) is a hill with an archaeological open-air museum in eastern Slovenia.
History Created by means of a May 1837 Royal Order, the provincial museum was opened on 19 November 1838.
This section of the museum was opened on 22 April 1981, displaying a political biography of Bijedić.
From July 14 to August 10, 2001, an international team led by Alexander Wasse (Council for British Research in the Levant) conducted a field campaign.
At the banks of the water strip two Meroitic frog statues 60 cm in height from Basa village representing the water-goddess Heket, as well as Beset the protector of pregnant women and newborn babies.
The Balbino de Freitas Archaeological Collection was one of the collections on display in National Museum of Brazil, in Rio de Janeiro.
The Gold and Silver Gallery showcases the largest collection of jewelry used by many notable rulers of pre-Columbian Peru.
As a whole, the mosaics were laid out using the opus tessellatum (tiles aligned in horizontal or vertical lines) and opus vermiculatum (tiles aligned so as to draw an outline around the shapes) techniques.
The Field Museum was an early adopter of positive-pressure based approaches to control of environment in display cases, using control modules for humidity control in several galleries where room-level humidification was not practical.
The Ephesus Archaeological Museum (Turkish: Efes Müzesi) is an archaeological museum in Selçuk near the Ancient Greek city of İzmir, Turkey.
Informe de la primera temporada de campo del proyecto Arqueológico Plazuelas, Archivo Centro INAH Guanajuato, 1998.
The museum presents a panorama overview of Sudanese archaeology, is based on the fieldwork and research conducted by the Swiss Archaeological Mission.The site attracts a high number of visitors, with annual attendance exceeding 30,000 people.
From 1879, the Englishman Clarence Bicknell developed a passion for this site and devoted thirty years of his life to it.
The Kerma Museum is an archeological site museum located in front of the Western Deffufa on the archaeological site of Kerma, in the Northern State of Sudan.
External links Official website 440 or so pictures from the museum Detailed description of the museum's exhibitions with photos Ephesus Museum Guide
The authenticity of materials and techniques used should be clearly accounted for through written and accessible records, quoting the sources of information on which the reconstructions are based.
Other buildings In addition to the shrine, the reconstructed buildings include a fortified gateway of the hill fort with a section of the stone walls (120-50 BCE), farmstead (300-100 BCE), a pottery kiln (300-100 BCE), and huts from various periods.
(September 2008), "Geoarchaeological Research in the Roman Town of Ammaia (Alentejo, Portugal)", Multudisciplinary Approaches to Classical Archaeology-Approcci Multidisciplinari per l'Archeologia Classica.
In 1998, the Department completed museum expansion plans with two large halls covering antiquities and three halls for heritage.
History The art museum was founded by Marie-Louise and Gunnar Didrichsen, who asked Finnish architect Viljo Revell to build the first of two phases in 1958 and again in 1965.
The Da Yu ding (Chinese: 大盂鼎; pinyin: Dà Yú dǐng) is an ancient Chinese bronze circular ding vessel from the Western Zhou dynasty (1046–771 BC).
Rare bone tools and an antler from the Antelias Cave, Sands of Beirut illustrate the ingenuity of the prehistoric people who inhabited Lebanon.
A group of 24 vases salvaged in 1973 from the Hokeb Ha cave in Toledo, southern Belize, was the most interesting part of the collection.
A basket was one of the main elements of the collection, collected in a sambaqui in the coastal area.
In December 1940, the museum was divided again, with its historical collections being moved to the Chapultepec Castle, where they formed the Museo Nacional de Historia, focusing on the Viceroyalty of the New Spain and its progress towards modern Mexico.
The center operates varied programs and tours for students, soldiers, and youth visiting from abroad.
Artists and artifacts Some of the ancient artists whose work is presented in the museum are Myron, Scopas, Euthymides, Lydos, Agoracritus, Agasias, Pan Painter, Wedding Painter, Meleager Painter, Cimon of Cleonae, Nessos Painter, Damophon, Aison, Analatos Painter, Polygnotos, and Hermonax.
Trustees had acquired about five acres of land, and for £22,000 had commissioned John Davies to build a new college.
In contrast, a corporate university typically limits scope to providing job-specific, indeed company-specific, training for the managerial personnel of the parent corporation.
Bridges Academy, Los Angeles, is a college prep school (Grades 4–12) serving twice-exceptional (or "2e") learners—students who are gifted but who also have learning differences such as, but not exclusively, Autism, AD/HD, executive functioning challenges, processing deficits, and mild dyslexia.
Children of IQ 180+ who are retained in the regular classroom are even more seriously at risk and experience severe emotional distress." These accelerated children should be placed together in one class if possible.
Educational leadership Shatskii also became an important educational leader in the Soviet Union, developing programs for schools across Soviet Russia in his capacity as one of the leaders of the pedagogical section of the State Academic Council (Glavny Uchyony Sovet).
Because the program focuses on serving higher levels of potential, very few students qualify for both the English and the math class.
As of 2024, half attend Governor's School West (GSW) at Greensboro College, and half attend Governor's School East (GSE) at Meredith College in Raleigh.
The Advanced Academy of Georgia was a residential joint high school and early college entrance program at the University of West Georgia in Carrollton, Georgia.
Soon after their reports were published two educational pioneers in the use of Internet technologies, Hiltz and Turoff, linked education directly with this pioneering work.
General requirements for obtaining a Certificate of competency Seagoing service The cadet must have approved seagoing service for not less than one year as part of an accredited training program, which includes training onboard along with an accredited training record book.
SUPERCAMP is an international educational summer camp program founded in 1982 which introduces students to accelerated learning academic skills and life skills.
The nonprofit organization seeks to increase college completion and student career readiness by utilizing its technology platform to connect college students with professionals.
Although there are apparent similarities in methodology and praxis, there are also key methodological and theological differences between the Catechesis of the Good Shepherd and Godly Play.
In practice a mono-methodical approach can be barely found; approaches/ concepts of action predominate which include more than the three classic methods.
Open and networked research Some researchers have used networked learning methods to collaborate and support each other's research.
Early intensive behavioural intervention Early intensive behavioural intervention (EIBI) is an intensive, ABA-based behavioural intervention for young children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and is one of the more commonly used treatments for ASD.
Reimer (1910–1998) was an education theorist who authored several books on educational policy and was a proponent of deschooling.
The colonial era met the Igbos as the leading exporters of palm oil and kernel, craftsmen, traders, merchants, cottage industrialists, et cetra.
In this context, “reading” refers to “reading comprehension”, “decoding” is simply recognition of written words and “language comprehension” means understanding language, whether spoken or written.
Due to her lack of fluency in English, Michel agreed that Auguste Coulon, a polyglot she had met at the Autonomie Club, could be the school's secretary and language teacher.
Although expressed needs are difficult to address, educators need to treat them positively in order to maintain a caring relationship with learners.
It may also be used facetiously, to suggest that formal education is not of practical value compared with "street" experience.
The children also have a very large measure of control over the environment; the adults in the school defer their need for a tidy environment to the child’s need to experience cause and effect; to experience why order is desirable.
The main component of the admissions process is a three-hour examination taken online that contains questions in both mathematics and science.
See also Self-Taught Higher Education Examinations (China) National Institute for Lifelong Education Academic Credit Bank System References External links National Institute for Lifelong Education (Republic of Korea) English page
Macondistas The term "Macondistas" refers to authors and members of the writing community who are alumni of the Macondo Writers' Workshop.
Alderson Broaddus College in Philippi, West Virginia, US, sponsored the organization, which moved its offices to the A-B campus in 1976.
Most volunteering activities are coordinated through numerous clubs and organizations within the program as well as through student life.
This included organizing language/cultural classes, outings, speech contests, meals, medical care, guest speakers, and enforcing discipline which included trying to prevent (in vain) the students from sneaking out of the campus in the evening to enjoy the Taipei nightlife.
He is the author, among other works, of: A Escola e o Conhecimento: fundamentos epistemológicos e políticos Nos Labirintos da Moral, com Yves de La Taille Não Espere Pelo Epitáfio: Provocações Filosóficas Não Nascemos Prontos!
Wang helped create the bill in an effort to generate a new revenue stream, to make up for money lost to severe cuts in state funding.
Doyle would use discarded materials such as metal roofing, plywood, and house paint for his art, exhibiting a rudimentary, but unique art style.
He was raised in East Los Angeles and considers the city a huge influence on him as a person and as an artist.
Open English has also secured corporate partnerships with more than 2,000 enterprise clients and has a global network of over 2,000 native English-speaking teachers.
His art frequently depicted the people and places on the urban margins, with Black identity, injustice, policing, drugs, and poverty common themes.
They "...(1) need more structure, [and] (2) they work better with an informal, tactile-kinesthetic design..." Adventure therapy as treatment is equally effective for adjudicated youth and other adolescent populations.
Students must already have been tested and officially identified as eligible for their application to go through.
Related outdoor activities A ropes course can be considered a challenging outdoor personal development and team-building activity.
Last years and death Ziolkowski continued his work until he died of acute pancreatitis in 1982 at the age of 74 in Sturgis, South Dakota.
After the school experienced a significant decline in the number of Black and Hispanic students since its founding due to changes in the admissions policy, in 2020 the school rededicated itself to diversity, even relaxing some of its previous admission standards.
Countries such as Australia and those from South America and Africa also began sending small numbers of Study Tour participants.
Subsequently in 1938, Andersson joined the Composers' Forum of Los Angeles, a Federal Music Project–sponsored group.
Through the use of experimental and unconventional curricula and offering choice to students as to what and how they will study, such institutions distinguish themselves from traditional faculties.
For the same reason, South Korean government is not actively supporting alternative schools financially.
See also Georgia Academy of Arts, Mathematics, Engineering and Science References External links The Advanced Academy of Georgia
A summer camp is a supervised program for children or teenagers conducted during the summer months in some countries.
They have three different types of courses: Business specific courses, organizational learning and communication classes, and management and executive training.
As told, this painting is supposed to inspire children to religious feelings, even though they are not able to understand the meaning of the painting yet.
In July 2018, Boston University announced the removal of Betof following an allegation of sexual misconduct involving a Boston University undergraduate student.
This approach – known as using the "environment as an integrating context" for learning – uses the local environment as a framework for teaching state and district education standards.
A variety of learning resources are available on WikiEducator: direct instructional resources such as lesson plans and full courses, as well as learning-support resources, such as individual school portals and funding proposals.
Over the course of two years, students complete required five year high school curriculum along with some university coursework.
In 2007, the group organized an alternative celebration of the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown, Virginia, saying that the official celebration did not give enough emphasis to the Christian perspective of the settlers.
One study entitled "Intelligibility of speech produced during simultaneous communication", 12 hearing impaired individuals were asked to audit the audio samples of 4 hearing sign language experts who had produced recordings of a Simultaneous Communication (SC) sample and a Speech Alone (SA) sample.
Self-organized orders or attractors thus arise from feedback processes between a micro and a macro level.
He recounted working there through "years of misery" due to an intense dislike of his supervisor, but being unable to quit his position due to the mass unemployment and poor job market of the Great Depression.
How to help these children Numerous programs have been created in order to help children at risk reach their full potential.
3 Surgeons' Square David Craigie taught anatomy from 1818 and later taught clinical medicine and practice of medicine.
Benefits Both direct instruction and constructivist activities can be compatible and effective in the achievement of learning goals.
UDIMA has signed a total of 96 international university cooperation agreements and 75 Erasmus+ bilateral agreements and belongs to 4 international networks and associations.
Not long afterwards, following the liberalisation of access to English universities, the work of the dissenting academies could become mainstream.
dissertation, The Pennsylvania State University Dissertation Abstracts International, No AAT 3157520 Braxton, S.
And the small number of hours students are required to spend volunteering can cause problems for community organizations and their clients.
The Leonard Bernstein Center was established in April 1992, and initiated extensive school-based research, resulting in the Bernstein Model.
The review found no evidence to support suggestions that home education was linked to forced marriage, servitude or child trafficking.
Transportation Travel to Esprit is via the provincial Quebec Route 148, the Cycloparc PPJ bicycle trail or by the Ottawa River itself.
The academic curriculum at semester schools tends to be college preparatory, interdisciplinary, and experiential.
Terman's studies have to date been the most extensive on high-functioning children, and are still quoted in psychological literature today.
The nonlexical pathway is thought to be more active and constructive as it assembles and selects the correct subword units from various potential combinations.
Christmas in AKG A theme-week precedes Christmas every year, but years themselves organize gifting events according to the desires of students.
The students of the Adventist education system within the Inter-America Division have access to the AVL.
SuperCamp is run by the Quantum Learning Network (QLN), a California-based educational organization.
Prior to that time, the kindergarten and first-grade classes met at the Park Avenue Synagogue and the rest of the school, grades 2–8, was located on the Upper West Side at 15 West 86th Street, in the building of the Society for the Advancement of Judaism.
One at the start of the school year, one a week before winter break, two during spring, and one in June.
One important degree of the dual education system is the high standard of education provided by the German government in Germany.
Concerned with the decay of society, he developed his theories based on his belief that human beings were inherently good as they were closest to nature when born, but society and its institutions corrupted them and denaturalized them.
A nature trail (sometimes nature walk, educational path, educational trail, or interpretive trail) is a specially developed hiking trail or footpath that runs through the countryside, along which there are marked stations or stops next to points of natural, technological or cultural interest.
The setting is designed to allow the student to continue progress in the regular curriculum to meet the goals set out by the IEP and to allow students to receive services and modifications designed to help students address problem behavior.
Showing skills beyond the reach of individuals can cause frustration and work counter to the purpose of VSM.
Lebenswelt is characterized above all by an inexhaustible supply of intersubjectively agreed symbols, which makes the human being an "animal symbolicum".
Apprenticeships Instructus Skills also develops UK apprenticeship frameworks and supplies research statistics for apprenticeship and workplace employment in the UK.
Students may well graduate with no industrial oriented learning experience prior to their first job.
References External links Images of Doyle's art Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine Biography from Raw Vision
Lessons can vary in form of Bible translation ranging from the King James Version and New King James to the New American Standard Bible and New International Version.
This “painted archive” corpus is valid as a first representation of a community writing its own history and not just showcasing it as a collection of images.
Scientific research The claims associated with this organization have underlying pseudoscientific ideas.
The following four levels are to be regarded as the minimum of what must be taken into account in order not to systematically disregard essential effects.
To help meet those overwhelming needs of students, particularly those in poor neighborhood, the ethic of care philosophy dictates that schools should be full-service institutions.
It was created by Law 1/2006, of 14 June, on the Recognition of the Private University "Universidad a Distancia de Madrid".
Descartes, a paixão pela razão See also Christian philosophy Philosophy of religion == References ==
In April 2006, the prototype was moved onto a hosted server with the financial assistance of Commonwealth of Learning (COL).
Outward Bound Costa Rica (OBCR) (formerly known as "Costa Rica Rainforest Outward Bound School" or CRROBS) is a non-profit experiential learning and outdoor education organization based in San José, Costa Rica.
Ben-Zion, also known as Ben-Zion Weinman (July 8, 1897 – January 23, 1987) was a Russian-born American painter, printmaker, sculptor, educator, and poet.
They began formal apprenticeships with a wage at the age of 13, whereupon they produced goods for the school.
Later, in the 1980s, the launching of Sputnik in October 1957, and the fear that the Soviet Union would eclipse the United States in scientific knowledge was ascribed as an important reason for the start of the program.
References External links Official website Write Ups — Rafael Cardenas Photography Rafael Cardenas on Instagram Rafael Cardenas on YouTube
Other uses University of Cambridge The intellectual society at Cambridge University known as the Apostles was founded in 1820 as the Conversazione Society by George Tomlinson.
The "Scottie Road" Free School experiment took place while the world-wide "free-schooling/de-schooling" ideology was at its height.
The Association is based at The Royal Mews, Hampton Court in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames.
Mosaic is overseen by a national Advisory Board: Mosaic's Founder Chairman (after O'Brien) was Princess Badiya bint El Hassan of Jordan.
Research has shown that highly gifted children are different not only because of higher IQ scores, but that there are cognitive differences in the ways that they think, learn, and relate to others.
Ideally, we get educated to transform us from the ordinary, unaware state of being, to a transformed and enlightened state of being.
This movement was led by the AHRC, formed in 1949 as a parent-led organization to advocate for individuals with developmental disabilities.
Debates on the practical use of presumed competence center around the subjective interpretation of the term "conclusive data." Particularly when it comes to making complex educational decisions about programs for individuals with disabilities.
However, HASS courses often receive lower governmental funding and may have lower reputations within universities.
The third theory is "metaphoric transfer" – the learner applies similar underlying principles to other areas and situations (e.g.
A wide variety of elective courses may be taken in addition to required classes after the first semester.
Kimama Hof Kimama Hof was established in 2014 in the Hadassah Neurim Youth Village, near the city of Netanya with an emphasis on nature and sea activities.
The National Science Foundation (NSF) In Nigeria has made conscious efforts to encourage girls to innovate, invent, and build through the "invent it, build it" program sponsored by NNPC.
Presently, camps are held every summer at several college campuses throughout the United States, including Stanford University, UCLA, Loyola Marymount University, UC Berkeley, Wake Forest University, Loyola University Chicago, Kent State University, University of South Florida, and Brown University.
The resulting fame, as well as his familiarity with the Black Hills, prompted several Lakota Chiefs, including Lakota elder Henry Standing Bear, to write to him about a monument honoring Crazy Horse.
Buehler was invited to give a TEDx talk about his experiences combating police abuse at the Harvard Graduate School of Education on April 12, 2014.
The nonlexical route allows the correct reading of nonwords as well as regular words that follow spelling-sound rules, but not exception words.
Non-denominational and free of charge, Shalva offers a range of therapies, inclusive educational frameworks, recreational programs, vocational training, respite and family support.
The former headed to Salt Lake City in March to hear excerpts from The Sun-Worshipper and Dreams of Solfomby Francinsadit played by the Utah State Symphony Orchestra conducted by Sample.
A deck cadet or trainee navigational deck officer or nautical apprentice is an apprentice who has the responsibility for the safe navigation including the basic duties of a deck officer on board a ship.
While at Girton, Lady Dorothy, who later became a prominent suffragette, wrote regular letters to her mother, which remain one of the best sources for Anna's college days.
It would be no more feasible if it were attempted by means of alternative institutions built on the style of present schools.
The traditional university is an educational institution which grants both undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in a variety of subjects, as well as conducting original scientific research.
Boston Research Center for the 21st Century Publisher's promotion Critical Lessons: What Our Schools Should Teach.
All members were searchable on the college's Public Register, which was an online database that enables anyone to easily confirm the qualifications of any compulsory tradesperson or apprentice before hiring them to fix their toilet, wire their house, change their brakes or cut/colour their hair.
Children of politically repressed families were given special consideration, such as those of Émile Henry.
Manning's tenure as president, the school's campus grew to include a dormitory, a gymnasium, a library, and a science building.
One would be the STEM Education Centre, while the other would be a Sufficient Economy Learning Centre.
Composition The Council has 15 members: One official from each provincial or territorial jurisdiction, who is responsible for the apprenticeship programs in each area, and two representatives from the Federal government: one from the Department of Employment, and one from Social Development Canada.
It provides parents, educators, administrators, and policymakers with the research on acceleration and the tools to advocate for their brightest students.
Advantages and disadvantages Advantages Some of the advantages of this form of learning is that students at the very least set the pace of their work.
Art practice Doyle continued his art practice in the 1940s, showing his paintings on sheet metal at first in his yard that he called his "Outdoor World-Wide-International Gallery".
These are called "Phases", and correspond with the physical/emotional/intellectual readiness for the lessons of each phase.
Many chose to sit for the qualification of Licentiateship of the RCSEd which became available from 1770, while others went into practice with no formal institutional qualification.
United States The following are sourced from the Alternative Education Resource Organization (AERO) and the Consortium for Innovative Environments in Learning (CIEL).
Many students are not used to working independently, creating the need to provide guidance as to the use of this kind of center, at least in the beginning.
Safety systems The safety equipment for each participant consists of a harness, a lanyard and a belay device.
The purpose of such trails is to increase knowledge, sometimes this is linked to tourism and recreation or the raising of environmental awareness.
Born and raised in Montana, he worked on cattle ranches before serving in the United States Marine Corps during World War II.
In 1970 after the "European Nature Conservation Year" in Germany, the first Swiss nature trails were also established.
In Germany and Great Britain Early Excellence Centres are widely discussed programs of compensatory education.
At the elementary school level, environmental education can take the form of science enrichment curriculum, natural history field trips, community service projects, and participation in outdoor science schools.
Those who have not officially been assigned to a rating are officially referred to as "undesignated" or "non-rates." See also U.S.
The Université populaire de Caen (Popular University or People's University of Caen) is a free university created in October 2002 by Michel Onfray in the north-western French city of Caen.
Worldview challenges: Coetzee (2023) critiques dominant coaching worldviews and calls for greater coherence in systemic strategies, situating STC within this debate.
In Edinburgh, a survey found that more exposure to green space helps increase self-esteem in young children.
In the UK, Australia and New Zealand, the phrases "University of Life" and "School of Hard Knocks" may be used interchangeably.
1990s Since the development of the Internet as a significant medium for access to information and communication, the practice of networked learning has tended to focus on its use.
Le mouvement ouvrier en Languedoc: Syndicalistes et socialistes de l'Herault de la foundation des bourses du travail a la naissance du Parti communiste (Midi et son histoire).
Bridge watchkeeping The cadet must have performed watchkeeping duties in Bridge during the required service, bridge watchkeeping activities under the supervision of the master or a trained officer for not less than six months.
Life He was born into the Irish clan Mac Conmara at Cratloe (Irish: An Chreatalach), County Clare (Contae an Chláir).
Presence in the United States As of 2021, there are 250 affiliate schools in 31 states and 25 countries.
The program was adopted widely in schools in the UK and appeared on many UK government websites as of 2006, although in 2018 Ofsted, the UK schools inspectorate, singled out Brain Gym as a "gimmick" and warned schools against using it.
Por Uma Vida Plena Liderança em Foco Ética e Vergonha na Cara!, com Clóvis de Barros Filho Pensar Bem Nos Faz Bem!
medical, business, and law schools placed Pomona 17th for medical schools, 22nd for business schools, and 14th for law schools.
Ein Erinneringsbuch an Herwarth Walden und die Künstler aus dem Sturmkreis (1954) and Herwarth Walden.
In 2014, Polish Children's Fund together with University of Warsaw and Copernicus Science Centre organises EUCYS finals, which are being held in Warsaw.
Initially, Abrome was an online education service, but as of 2016 it is now an alternative, progressive school in Austin, TX, that operates free of teachers, classrooms, testing, homework, or grades.
Student-centered learning puts students' interests first, acknowledging student voice as central to the learning experience.
This data further explains why regular words, that both follow spelling-sound rules and have been stored in long-term memory, are read faster since both pathways "agree" about the issue of pronunciation.
This idea of “whole” underpins the system from which Pető thought that children with motor disorders would benefit.
The Inspectorate of Schools insisted that the Moot be removed from the timetable and that attendance at class be compulsory.
In 1894 Franklin became the secretary of the PNEU and went on speaking tours to major cities in America, Europe and South Africa.
Five of the programs have been privately revived and are functioning members of the National Conference of Governor's Schools as of 2014.
Return to composition While Andersson was on a trip to San Francisco in April 1936, his piano improvisations caught the attention of Pierre Monteux, who was Sample's conducting teacher at the time.
One of the suspects in the first episode of Columbo season 3 ("Lovely but Lethal") runs a fat farm, which is presented in the episode as a kind of cult.
Once again, most influential was his 1971 call for advanced technology to support "learning webs":The operation of a peer-matching network would be simple.
Academic awards and recognitions Lenart has been on the Illinois Honor Roll consecutively for many years, and issued the Award for Academic Excellence every year, which recognizes sustained excellence in elementary schools.
2020 Malala Fund Education Champion 2021 Tällberg-SNF-Eliasson Emerging Leader Prize 2021 BBC 100 Women 2022 UN Young Activists Award 2023 CEU Open Society Prize 2023 Global Citizen Prize for Human Rights 2023 Muhammad Ali Humanitarian Award 2024 Women’s Excellence Award, World Economic Forum.
Background Its head, Bryn Purdy, had worked at Summerhill and had also been invited to join Wills in his Bromley project.
English Dissenters in this context were Nonconformist Protestants who could not in good conscience subscribe (i.e.
From 1936 until 1942, he was a founding member of "The Ten" expressionist artist group, which also included the artists Mark Rothko, Louis Harris (artist), Adolph Gottlieb, Ralph Rosenborg, Louis Schanker, Joseph Solman, Nahum Tschacbasov, and Ilya Bolotowsky.
He stopped attending Mass, and described "badly singing awfully blasphemous words at God" for hours during hard shifts at work.
Students dress up in their hall colors and meet up at West Campus to partake in a series of competitions between the residence halls.
It was established by proactive parents inspired by the Montessori Method, introduced to them by Willem van Benthum.
Gifford worked in the luminist style, and has also been considered a member of the Hudson River School art movement.
Eldorado Emerson Private School (also known as Eldorado School and Emerson Choice Academy) was a co-educational private school in El Modena, Orange, California, United States.
In EIBI, the core deficits of ASD are addressed through individualized intervention programs tailored to the child's current skills such as communication and social skills.
The first year in Costa Rica he focused on learning first-hand indigenous culture, rainforest ecology, and Costa Rican geography.
Accreditation The academy is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges and is a member of the Association of Independent Schools of New England.
Effective education system: Gaps in knowledge between nations can exist when individual countries invest too little in primary school education, which acts as the base for the entire education system.
The Association's special needs classes operate at its indoor school, located at the Stockyard, Bushy Park.
Under the latter assumption, the risk is that the teacher speaks too little to the student (or, in an extreme form of the argument, the teacher may not speak to the student at all).
Opposition The American and British delegations were the only ones who opposed the use of oralism as a sole method of instruction, but were unsuccessful in their efforts to overturn the Milan resolutions.
The word is mainly used by homeschoolers, especially unschoolers, to refer to the transition process that children and parents go through when they leave the school system in order to start homeschooling.
Learning Pathways Student's navigate around the platform in their social context with fellow learners, while teachers can interact with them and, for example, view their learning progress.
Berryman and his colleague Sonja Stewart, a professor of Christian education at Western Theological Seminary, co-developed a series of lessons plans, the first of which were published in the book Young Children and Worship.
Highbury College was a dissenting academy, that is, a school or college set up by English Dissenters.
The general assembly elects the general committee responsible for ECHA's life in between two general assemblies.
Career as educator In 1907–1910, Cobb taught history and Latin at Robert College in Constantinople (now Istanbul), followed by several years teaching in the US and Europe.
This combined Mosaic network support with that of The Prince's British Asian Trust with a gala dinner and speech by The Prince of Wales.
She said that she watches a video that consists of her best dives along with encouragement from family and coaches.
This meeting was the first time ever that it had been held in an Arab country, and was put together by two different organizations, the Mohamed VI Foundation for Environmental Protection and the World Environmental Education Congress Permanent Secretariat in Italy.
In 1848, after public service as Secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Education, Mann was elected to the United States House of Representatives (1848–1853).
Insufficient training of teachers on inclusive education also leads to stigma to students with special education.
Teachers are expected to be trained—and, ideally, certified—in the Godly Play method, in order to teach Godly Play.
The floating school model has been recognised in Bangladesh’s National Adaptation Plan and in international climate adaptation literature as a replicable approach for education access in flood-affected regions.
The charity ran The Brilliant Tutoring Programme from 2020-2023, as part of the government’s National Tutoring Programme, which was designed to support students whose learning was disrupted by COVID-19 school closures.
ATYP's first two years cover pre-AP content; the third year focuses at the AP English Language and Composition / AP English Literature and Composition and Pre-Calculus / AP Statistics level.
His thoughts were closely aligned with Illich because neither was convinced that school was where students learned everything they needed to know.
A Learning Experience Platforms (LXP) is an online learning approach that foregrounds the student experience.
Training and being responsible for an animal can foster empathy, emotional intelligence, communication, and self-control in inmates; however, the results of studies done so far must be taken with caution as the methodological quality of existing studies is limited.
Skills Exchange - A database of people willing to list their skills and the basis on which they would be prepared to share or swap them with others.
ArtAbilitation is an international conference platform for people with disabilities and a movement that started in 2006 as coined/originated by Anthony (aka Tony) Brooks.
During the late 1970s and 1980s, the company transitioned from equipment modification into the design and manufacture of purpose-built underground vehicles.
In America, they were common in the Tri-State district areas during the lead and zinc mining in Missouri, Oklahoma, and Kansas.
As there were originally five F60s, a total of 10 Type Es 3750 BCEs were built, but with the retirement of one of the F60s in Lichterfeld-Schacksdorf, only 8 remain in service.
2006 – Foreign expansion through establishing a joint venture Shandong Liangda Fasing Round Link Chains Co.
Screen capacities vary with model sizes over a huge range to satisfy individual application requirements such as material size, bulk density, moisture contamination, etc.
The Quality Management System applied in research and development, fabrication, erection and after-sale service of the equipment complies with international ISO 9000 standards.
It can move 240,000 m3 (8.5 million ft3) of soil per day, weighing around 218,880 tonnes (480 million pounds), the same as Bagger 288.
For the time being the Caledonian used the GG&CR Townhead terminus in Glasgow, but soon extended to a new terminal at Glasgow, Buchanan Street.
"How Big is a Hole?: The Problems of the Practical Application of Science in the Invention of the Miners' Safety Lamp by Humphry Davy and George Stephenson in Late Regency England" (PDF).
Schramm's Australian based business is currently under external administration, following a workplace fatality in February 2023.
Since 1975, Hitachi has been using images of a currently-183-year-old Samanea saman tree, known as the Hitachi Tree (hitachi no ki), located at Moanalua Gardens, Hawaii, in most of its television commercials as a symbol of the conglomerate.
Construction of the railway was a condition of an 1894 mining lease to Víctor Chávarri, who enlisted the support of the English vice consul of Almería in Garrucha, George Clifton Pecket.
It is used together with multibucket excavators, frequently bucket chain excavators, that remove the overburden which is moved to the bridge by connecting conveyors.
The lamp itself was surrounded by glass, which had an additional perforated metal tube surrounding it for protection.
Homogenization aims to upgrade the raw material to a uniform composition of the product being homogenized.
A gook was a piece of protective headgear worn by bal maidens (female manual labourers in the mining industries of Cornwall and Devon).
The conveyor bridge of Espenhain lignite mine with a total length of 545 m, which started operation in 1944, could remove an overburden of 45 m thickness.
Typical materials that are transferred using slurry pipelines include coal, copper, iron, and phosphate concentrates, limestone, lead, zinc, nickel, bauxite and oil sands.
It is held at arm's length at floor level in one hand, the other hand shielding out all except the tip of the flame.
19) was obtained allowing a short 1+1⁄4-mile (2 km) extension to the Midland Railway's line near Barnsley; the new chord would have enabled the South Yorkshire company to take advantage of their recently acquired running powers to Wakefield and Leeds over the Midland's lines.
References External links Cornish Pumping Engine and Mining Museum - Menominee Range Historical Foundation
Spillway and outlet works The Spring Creek Dam is able to release up to 5,920 cubic feet (168 m3) of water per second from the Spring Creek Reservoir, through a crest spillway and outlet works.
JCB said it had no “legal ownership” of its machinery once sold to Comasco, its sole distributor of JCB equipment in Israel.
It worked thirty years for the RS hauling ore materials trains until the early 1960s; in 1971, it was sold to John Thompson and later to the Crab Orchard and Egyptian Railway (CO&E) in Marion, Illinois.
A loader is a heavy equipment machine used in construction to move or load materials such as soil, rock, sand, demolition debris, etc.
It is one of the largest chain manufacturers in the world, and is the largest producer of industrial chains in Central and Eastern Europe.
Origin of term 1350–1400; Middle English from Dutch and German Korb, ultimately borrowed from Latin corbis basket; cf.
Optional features included L&M radiator, monitoring systems, special paint, cold climate kit, AM/FM radio with cassette player, electric starter, engine heater, canopy spill guards, body liner, and more.
How the Jumbo Works The main body of the Jumbo has two or a maximum of three drilling rigs, a basket, and a movable roof that moves vertically, and four jacks are installed in its four corners to stabilize it during drilling and prevent it from changing the drilling angle.
Training Mining simulators are used to replicate real-world conditions of mining, assessing real-time responses from the trainee operator to react to what tasks or obstacles appear around them.
It got the nickname "mine under the sea", because tunnels were driven up to 2.5 km from the cliffs under the sea.
Under this arrangement, the company's Burnie facilities manufactured underground hard-rock mining equipment for global distribution through Caterpillar’s international dealer network.
In 1866, Thwaites and Carbutt Vulcan Works manufactured three locomotives "of 0-6-0 type" for Boulton.
Use Power shovels are used principally for excavation and removal of overburden in open-cut mining operations; they may also be used for the loading of minerals, such as coal.
hammer of a new design, for planishing pipes and plates, for which we are indebted to Engineering [magazine]".
is an Italian manufacturer of construction equipment belonging to the Trevi Group established in 1969 in Cesena.
In the mid-1880s, the federal government set minimum harbor lines and stiff penalties for breaching them, and eventually filed suit against the Quincy Mine for dumping in Portage Lake.
Attempts to purchase and preserve the shovel from Consol to make it the centerpiece of a mining museum exhibit for $2.6 million fell short.
Ideal for multi-fraction separation As a gyratory screening machine employs the use of smaller stacked screen frames, the screens can be accurately placed to the precise requirements of each separation.
Afterwards, the company was sold to the private sector as part of the ruling Islamic Republic privatization plans of 2006, which put Islamic Republic officials and their affiliates in control of the country’s vital businesses.
The MTZ planned to transport one million tonnes of iron ore in 2016 and plans to increase its transport volume to eight to ten million tonnes in the future.
The technology utilizes a gyroscope and an accelerometer, together called an inertial navigation system or INS, to aid in 3D-position determination.
Comparison to rigid dump trucks Articulated haulers excel in hauling material over rough terrain e.g.
The company's most powerful tow tractor, the F396P, is used to tow the world's largest cargo aircraft (Antonov An-225) and the Airbus A380, the largest passenger aircraft.
The grinding force are applied through the sets of rollers on to the material bed spread over the rotating grinding table.
(acquired the remaining 50% interest) on 19 June 2012 In the news In 2010, Layne Christensen assisted in the rescue of 33 miners trapped for 69 days as a result of the Chilean mining accident of 2010 in Chile.
The cost of a DAC 120 DE truck was around US$ 300,000 (US$ 615,000 in 2018 dollars), much cheaper than other comparable models.
A letter from Davy (which he intended to be kept private) describing his findings and various suggestions for a safety lamp was made public at a meeting in Newcastle on 3 November 1815, and a paper describing the lamp was formally presented at a Royal Society meeting in London on 9 November.
Later, in early 20th century mining jargon, a saucisson referred to the flexible casings used for explosives in mine operations.
By 1912, Page realized that building draglines was more lucrative than contracting, so he created the Page Engineering Company to build draglines.
The amalgamations gave the NBR excellent connectivity eastwards from Coatbridge, but the awkward route towards Glasgow remained; this was important because much iron ore and finished iron was exported from quays in Glasgow, and from Ayrshire ports.
New designs were added, and in 1972 the company shipped the first of its newly designed flared cage mill to Webster Brick, Roanoke, Virginia.
The six-section crawler undercarriage, with a maximum travel speed of 6 meters per minute, carries the total mass of 3850 tons.
The shovel worked well for Arch Coal until September 9, 1991, when a fire broke out in the lower works of the shovel, caused by a burst hydraulic line that sprayed the hot fluids on an electrical relay panel.
Through hoisting, the working block can include area both above and below the level of the machine (the bench level).
In March 2020, Liebherr launched their first APAC HQ in Singapore, alongside their bespoke $35,000 SGD Bespoke Luxe Refrigerator.
In the 2025 film adaptation A Minecraft Movie features a scene where Steve and Garrett (portrayed by Jack Black and Jason Momoa) escape the mobs through a minecart.
One example is a 360 TPD Gold Processing Plant Sepro supplied to ProEurasia LCC for the Vladimirskaya Project in Russia.
In the lyrics of the song, Bagger 288 is built to protect mankind from Godzillas and doom robots from the future.
The undulations on the route would allow the horse to ride on the downhill sections: The drawing horse [would be] carried behind the coach in a covered stable waggon.
A rockbreaker is a machine designed to manipulate large rocks, including reducing large rocks into smaller rocks.
OJSC BelAZ has offered its premises and equipment to stage a political rally in support of the regime.
When the hopper is full, the ship sails to an offshore location and opens doors in the bottom of the hopper, allowing the dredge spoil to fall to the sea bottom.
Founded in 2002 and integrated into the Hitachi Group in 2012, the company specializes in Microsoft-based digital transformation across industries such as construction, financial services, health care, retail, manufacturing, sports and entertainment, and energy.
Fully loaded the 960E-1 weighs 1,270,000 pounds (580 t) and can achieve a top speed of 40 mph (64 km/h) Competition The 960E-1 competes with other 360 short tons (327 t) payload capacity haul trucks such as the Bucyrus MT5500AC.
It was lifted by cams on a rotating axle, and fell on the ore and water mixture, fed into a box beneath.
Further, the metal blades of the Hollander often introduced metal contaminants into the paper as one metal blade struck another.
During the work, the Army requested a number of extras which raised the ultimate cost to about $135,000.
In the mining of most heavy minerals, the denser material would be the desired mineral and the rest would be discarded as floats (or tailings).
In 2020, at 100 years of age, it was announced that the mill was "undergoing a restoration project that will stabilize the remaining architecture, improve the structural integrity and cleanup the mining waste and tailings piles.
Various other types of jobs such as digging in gravel banks, in clay pits, cuts in support of road work, road-side berms, etc.
1990: Coromant Capto, aka CC, a single holding system for both rotating and stationary spindles, is introduced.
The machine began work in January, 1967 for Hanna Coal, and was later purchased by Consolidated Coal in "Egypt Valley" near Barnesville, Ohio.
Lenz bought Terex USA in 1986, exercising an option to purchase Terex Equipment Ltd the following year.
Mantrip A mantrip is a shuttle for transporting miners down into an underground mine at the start of their shift, and out again at the end.
In the deepest mines, which could sink to more than 350 fathoms (640 metres), extra counterweights were provided at regular intervals, in horizontal side galleries.
On February 18, 1994, Bucyrus-Erie filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and remained under bankruptcy protection until December 14, 1994.
Syncrude had a lower-than-expected fines capture performance in 2011/2012 but exceeded expectations in 2010/2011.
Remediation In 2007, the New Zealand Government announced that $9.88 million will be made available to clean up the site with the work scheduled to be completed by 2010.
It monitors light vehicle positions and provides real–time awareness of changing conditions to visitors and mine personnel.
The Clydesdale Junction Railway and the Polloc and Goven Railway were absorbed by the Caledonian Railway by the Caledonian, Polloc and Govan, and Clydesdale Junction Railways Amalgamation Act 1846 (9 & 10 Vict.
A water treatment plant was built on a site named Minnesota Flats near the Iron Mountain Mine, using lime to balance the pH of the acid mine drainage.
Steam drills found greater use in surface quarries than in underground mines, as there they could be much closer to the requisite boilers.
Hybrids combine slats with weave/mesh or dedicated anti-extrusion layers to control growth and resist damage in high-pressure service.
In 2011, Transmin developed the first commercially available automation system for pedestal rockbreakers.
Locomotives The Wishaw and Coltness company acquired three locomotives designed by Robert Dodds and built by James M Rowan of Glasgow: they were named Wishaw, Coltness and Cleland; they started work at the end of 1840.
When the inlet is opened, air is drawn into the top space of the downcomer by this lower pressure, where it too is entrained into the downcomer contents by the plunging jet.
Hardness: The grinding media needs to be durable enough to grind the material, but, where possible, not so tough that it also wears down the tumbler.
A lamp room is a designated facility, historically associated with coal mines, where miners' safety lamps were stored, maintained, inspected, and issued.
Rockbreakers consist of two major components, a hydraulic hammer (used to break rocks) and a boom (the arm).
It was dependent on the Monkland and Kirkintilloch Railway for access to the best areas of the coalfields, but eventually it by-passed this constraint by extending its line southwards through Coatbridge, enabling a direct link with another coal railway, the Wishaw and Coltness Railway.
2,134,582 was issued on October 25, 1938 and assigned to the Eastern Iron Metals Company (later to be known as EIMCO).
References http://www.komatsu.com.au/Equipment/Pages/Dump%20Trucks%20-%20Rigid/830E-1AC.aspx Archived 2012-09-25 at the Wayback Machine
By the 11th century, stamp mills were in widespread use throughout the medieval Islamic world, from Islamic Spain and North Africa in the west to Central Asia in the east.
The widest application of stamp mills, however, seems to have occurred in Roman mining, where ore from deep veins was first crushed into small pieces for further processing.
It is widely used in recovering valuable heavy minerals such as gold, platinum, tin, tungsten, as well as gemstones such as diamond and sapphire, from alluvial or placer deposits.
Presence in Underground Mining In 1991, Modular Mining Systems developed and installed the world's first underground fleet management system at a diamond mine in South Africa.
A description of the working conditions of the mine was described in The Cornishman newspaper in 1883.
Primary ores included argentiferous galena, sphalerite, and tetrahedrite-tennantite with pyrite and quartz gangue.
While the machine is idle, an "internal shunt" is connected across the output terminals so that any stray voltages induced in the external circuit, for example by nearby radio transmitters, are harmlessly short-circuited without triggering the blasting cap.
In 1993 Yanmar launched the world's first Zero Tail Swing excavator, which allows the counterweight to stay inside the width of the tracks as it slews, thus being safer and more user friendly when used in a confined space.
Martin purchased Allan's Foundry from the estate in 1907 and renamed it Miners Foundry and Supply Co.
Modern machines are typically fully automated with their parameters (for stacking or reclaiming) remotely set.
During operation the lighter material flows upward over the grooves and heavy mineral particles (usually of economic value) become trapped within them.
A wheat lamp is a type of incandescent light designed for use in underground mining, named for inventor Grant Wheat and manufactured by Koehler Lighting Products in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, United States, a region known for extensive mining activity.
In the United States, the Mine Safety and Health Administration has published safety regulations governing the operation of mantrips.
Ruston & Hornsby Ltd were the pre-eminent manufacturers of steam excavators at the time, having started in 1874.
The railway was authorised by a law of 4 March 1887 which declared it a public utility for the transport of minerals.
The loan was to have a term of ten years, renewable for another five with the agreement of both parties.
World War I During World War I, the Hendy plant gained its first experience building marine engines by supplying 11 triple expansion steam engines for cargo ships built by Western Pipe & Steel, for the U.S.
Description The fabrication of Big Brutus was completed in May 1963, after which it was shipped on 150 railroad cars to be assembled in Kansas.
For the time being the Monkland Railways had no direct connection to Glasgow, although there was a connection with the E&GR at Kirkintilloch Junction (later Lenzie).
There is still gold to be mined here – but the cost of extracting the gold from the mine exceeds the value of the gold, at least for the time being.
In January, 1993, administrative, sales and engineering personnel moved into a newly erected office building.
Mikael Lilius, former chairman of the Board of Metso, is the chairman of the board, and Matti Alahuhta, former chairman of the board of Outotec, is the deputy chairman of the board.
Locations The group is physically present in 7 countries on 3 continents: Poland United States China Germany Russia Czech Republic Ukraine Structure The firm is the parent company of the capital group, which includes: Production companies Mining Equipment and Tools Factory Capital Group FASING Plc.
Specifications and History Built by Ransomes & Rapier and named after the winning horse of the 1957 Grand National, it began work in a Rutland iron ore quarry belonging to the United Steel Companies (Ore Mining Branch) that year.
In July 1900, Grant sailed from San Francisco to Taku Bay, China with Major General Adna Chaffee, the commander of China Relief Expedition during the Boxer Rebellion.
Unlike the buckets on a BWE, the buckets on the chain face downwards, allowing the machine to remove overburden or materials significantly below the bench or travel level.
George Stephenson invented a similar lamp but Davys invention was safer due to it having a fine wire gauze that surrounded the flame.
The mine workers settled in the area which took the name of the mine and is now a populated place to the north called Good Hope.
Then on August 26, Geotech works to ensure that the 5+1⁄2-inch 6C pilot hole is drilling to reach the underground workshop.
At Dolaucothi, these stamp mills were hydraulic-driven and possibly also at other Roman mining sites, where the large scale use of the hushing and ground sluicing technique meant that large amounts of water were directly available for powering the machines.
In 1885, a 5.5 kilometres (3.4 mi) long railway opened linking the Glückhilf mine at Welfesholz and the Kupferkammer smeltery at Hettstedt.
The Ontario company's mill was also the birthplace of two significant hydrometallurgical processes, the Russell Process and the Cyanide Process.
The ship was used to dredge multiple obstructions on the Mississippi River and in the Atchafalaya Basin from 1933 until at least 1937.
Stamp sand may be hazardous to human health, since it contains trace amounts of harmful heavy metals (such as arsenic).
Jharia Coalfield has a series of railway lines covering the region lying between the Grand Chord line on the north and the Damodar river in the south.
Product conception, design, manufacture and sales are carried out by a team of 130 workers, all based at the factory in Ostfildern near Stuttgart in south western Germany.
Namtu is a security area and restrictions are placed on visiting the railway, mines and smelters, except on official tours.
History HEPCO was established and registered in 1972, with the intention of assembly & production of heavy equipment.
A variety of means were used to transport slate from the terraces to the mills where the rock was processed.
Grain-pounders with pestles, as well as ordinary watermills, are also attested as late as the middle of the fifth century in a monastery founded by Romanus of Condat in the remote Jura region, indicating that the knowledge of trip hammers continued into the early Middle Ages.
Service history United States Shipping Board (1919–1932) After delivery to the Shipping Board, Detroit Wayne made her way through the Great Lakes to the Atlantic, passing through the Lachine Canal on 23 June 1920, and arriving at Portland, Maine on 17 July 1920.
Joe Walker Mine The Joe Walker gold mine was founded on 20 March 1866 by Hamp Williams, father of another Hamp Williams who discovered silver at Randsburg.
During World War I the line from Bothwell to Hamilton was closed to passengers except for workmen's trains, from 1 January 1917 to 2 June 1919.
The mining areas in the late 19th century around Bédar were initially served by a series of aerial cableways which transported ore to ships at Garrucha.
Dome Mine is situated in the City of Timmins, Ontario, Canada; and was developed during the Porcupine Gold Rush.
Like many mines in the area, the property probably started as a placer mine during the Georgia Gold Rush.
Overview A bucket chain excavator works similarly to a bucket wheel excavator, using a series of buckets to dig into the material before dumping it in the bucket chute and depositing it through a discharge boom.
A graduation tower (occasionally referred to as a thorn house) is a structure, used in the production of salt, that removes water from a saline solution by evaporation, increasing its concentration of mineral salts.
Maintenance cart Source: Conducting maintenance on belt conveyors involves the replacement of worn or damaged idlers, work that is especially challenging on the steep slopes, in tunnels or on the elevated structures so typical of mining sites.
Excavators are heavy construction equipment primarily consisting of a boom, dipper (or stick), bucket, and cab on a rotating platform known as the "house".
Services include product user training, consulting, business process mapping (BPM), performance benchmarking, change management, and lean services, among others.
Footage posted on YouTube by Maughan appears to show him collecting samples from the floor of the dam.
During sumping, the cutterhead is driven directly into the intact rock face without a free surface, which requires the highest cutting forces of the entire cycle.
Currently, the dam stores 100,000,000 t (98,420,653 long tons; 110,231,131 short tons) of tailings and the raise would increase storage to 125,000,000 t (123,025,816 long tons; 137,788,914 short tons).
It is commonly mounted on steel wheels designed to run on narrow gauge rails, with some later models using metal or rubber-tyred road wheels.
This facility, however, dumped an enormous amount of sand tailings into the lake, and the sand soon threatened to encroach on the navigable channel of the lake.
Gold dredges were used in New Zealand from the 1860s, although the earlier dredges were of primitive design and not very successful.
It lasted until February 1842 when the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway opened, putting paid to any through traffic over the Slamannan route.
Overview The vertical roller mill is a kind of grinding machine for cement, raw material, cement clinker, slag and coal slag.
There are some minerals, notably coal, that are lighter (lower in density) than the surrounding rock and in such instances the process of extraction would work in reverse, i.e.
At its highest point at the east, the mill is ninety-six feet in height and is visible above the surrounding forest from the highway.
The reservoir's construction began in 1974, and exploitation (and the completion of the reservoir's construction) on February 12, 1977.
Mill number two was demolished early, as well as the original portions of mill number one, but the later additions to mill number one remain.
These secondary minerals develop within tailings impoundments due to weathering processes following mining and milling activities.
Page also invented the arched dragline bucket, a design still commonly used today by draglines from many other manufacturers, and in the 1960s pioneered an archless bucket design.
Other types of mantrips do not require a track and take the form of a pickup truck running on rubber tires.
It was one of only two Bucyrus-Erie 1950-B shovels built (the other being The Silver Spade) and one of two to use the knee-action crowd licensed from Marion Power Shovel in exchange for Marion's use of Bucyrus-Erie's cable crowd patent.
While the overall concepts that go into a BWE have not changed much, their size has grown drastically since the end of World War II.
The failure came about just southeast of Lemonroyd Lock where the Aire and Calder Navigation joins the River Aire.
Loaders are used mainly for loading materials into trucks, laying pipe, clearing rubble, and digging.
In coal mining in central Europe during the 19th and 20th centuries, every miner had his own set of tools.
Tolls were laid down, and "the company may provide carriages for the conveyance of passengers, and charge for each person conveyed a rate of 4d per mile" and "locomotive engines may be used on the railway" The name of the company refers to the area where minerals would originate.
A winding engine is a stationary engine used to control a cable, for example to power a mining hoist at a pit head.
It was invented in Germany in the 19th century and was a prominent feature of tin and copper mines in Cornwall until the beginning of the twentieth century.
Heavy duty fenders, bumpers and man baskets (gondolas) are fabricated to mount on the tractor or tractor frames to provide more durability.
Developments The Euclid company of Euclid, OH, was synonymous with off-road haul trucks, and earthmoving equipment such as bottom dumpers, and to a lesser extent, scrapers, in the 1950s.
The "Phoenix" (Fénix) evacuation devices used in the rescue of 33 miners after the 2010 Copiapó mining accident, in Chile, are an enhanced version of the Dahlbusch Bomb.
Some mining simulators can also be mobile and move locations, which can be particularly helpful for use of the same simulator between multiple schools or colleges for apprentice programs.
Design A typical "capacitive discharge" blasting machine works by charging a capacitor from a battery, then discharging the capacitor through an external circuit, called the firing line, to fire the blasting cap.
The undercarriage, especially frequently for a mini-excavator, can also have blade similar to that of a bulldozer.
Ore from the Good Hope was one requiring fine crushing and very careful amalgamation and concentration.
This requires more complex valve gear and other controls than are needed on engines used in mills or to drive pumps.
A safety lamp designed for use in potentially hazardous atmospheres such as firedamp and coal dust, the lamp is mounted on the front of the miner's helmet and powered by a wet cell battery worn on the miner's belt.
Epiroc was officially created on 1 January 2018 and was subsequently listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm stock exchange on June 18, 2018.
A large gold dredge uses a mechanical method to excavate material (sand, gravel, dirt, etc.) using steel "buckets" on a circular, continuous "bucketline" at the front end of the dredge.
Thus DEVCO continued to operate modest rail services and add new spurs and other facilities where needed.
Configurations In reciprocating power drills, the drilling cylinder is mounted on a feed-screw, such that as the hole is drilled and the drilling point recedes from the rock face, the drill-bit continues to move into it, while the anchor point (on the tripod or column) remains in place.
Mines Knelson concentrators are used in a number of gold mines operated by AngloGold Ashanti, like Geita, Sunrise Dam and the Serra Grande Gold Mine as well as Barrick's TGO Tomingley Gold Operation Bulyanhulu Gold Mine.
On average, all Baggers require a total output 16.56 MW (22,207 hp) of power to function with all-systems running.
In 1882 the mine was taken over by new owners on a 21 year lease, who replaced machinery and improved the surface-works.
corves) in mining is a wicker basket or a small human powered (in later times in the case of the larger mines, horse drawn) minecart for carrying or transporting coal, ore, etc.
Lower park The park's main entrance is in the "lower" or eastern portion which preserves a section of woodlands along the Carson River.
Penrhyn quarry in Bethesda was based around a single large pit over 400 feet deep, worked as a series of terraces.
After the mill was dismantled and moved to Silver City in the 1920s, the area was used as the town garbage dump for 30 years.
Their use was described in medieval written sources of Styria (in modern-day Austria), one from 1135, and another from 1175.
The MT6300AC is Bucyrus' largest, highest payload capacity haul truck, offering one of the largest haul truck payload capacities in the world, up to 400 short tons (363 t).
It last moved in 1999, when it was positioned on top of the hill overlooking the reserve, for preservation.
A roller-cone bit is a drill bit used for drilling through rock that features 2 or 3 abrasive, spinning cones that break up rock and sediment as they grind against it.
At the time of its construction in 1973, the Titan was the largest, highest payload capacity truck ever built.
By April 2003, the dam was raised from its original elevation of 4,010 m (13,156 ft) above sea level to 4,045 m (13,271 ft).
In May 2004, the local government requested that the line be maintained as a heritage railway, as more and more tourists became interested in it.
In jumbo drills, the driving force of the hydraulic pumps is provided by electric motors and diesel engines.
The Komatsu 830E is an ultra class haul truck used in open pit mining designed and built in Peoria, Illinois by Komatsu America Corporation, whose parent company is the Japanese held company Komatsu Ltd.
After it was withdrawn from service, the municipalities Senftenberg, Großräschen, and Schipkau decided on a joint action to preserve the opencast mining machine.
A refinement adds a counter-flow top mounting vibration, in which the sieving is more efficient because the material bed is deeper and the material stays on the screen for a longer time.
On 4 August 1926, a decree was passed, according to which the concession and modification of the operating conditions of the tram from Miliana to Margueritte by the Prefect of Algiers of 24 December 1925 were approved.
As of 2025, the BelAZ 75710 is the truck with the highest payload capacity, 450 metric tons (440 long tons; 500 short tons).
Here D ( f ) {\displaystyle D(f)} is the deterministic query complexity and Q ( f ) {\displaystyle Q(f)} is the quantum query complexity.
For instance, as de Bruijn observes, a 5 ⋅ 6 {\displaystyle 5\cdot 6} rectangular box can be filled with copies of a 2 ⋅ 3 {\displaystyle 2\cdot 3} rectangular brick, although not with all the bricks oriented the same way.
A notable counterexample is icosahedral graph: as a 5-regular and planar graph it does not have any vertex shared by at most four edges).
The vertices of a smooth curve correspond to the cusps of its evolute, the curve formed by the centers of curvature of the given curve.
Later, Friedman defined the more general subcubic graphs SCG ( k ) {\displaystyle {\text{SCG}}(k)} .
Call them B {\displaystyle B} and C {\displaystyle C} , with B {\displaystyle B} being closest to P ′ {\displaystyle P'} (and possibly coinciding with it).
The theorem was independently proved by Orrin Frink and Paul Smith, also in 1930, but their proof was never published.
(Each vertex in this case also has in-degree 2, but that is not necessary for a synchronizing coloring to exist.) The edges of this graph have been colored red and blue to create a synchronizing coloring.
Relation to Tutte's theorem Tutte's theorem on perfect matchings characterizes the graphs with perfect matchings as being the ones for which deleting any subset U {\displaystyle U} of vertices creates at most | U | {\displaystyle |U|} odd components.
The set of all combinatorial lines can be described as the edges of a complete graph on the vertices.
It strengthens an earlier theorem of Hassler Whitney according to which every 4-vertex-connected maximal planar graph has a Hamiltonian cycle.
In mathematics, the Sims conjecture is a result in group theory, originally proposed by Charles Sims.
Then, they color each vertex v of T with a color i such that the hyperedge assigned to v is a neighbor of i.
Thus there must be at least n 2 / 4 C ( 2 C − 1 ) {\displaystyle n^{2}/4C(2C-1)} lines connecting at least two points, and the claim follows by taking K = 4 C ( 2 C − 1 ) {\displaystyle K=4C(2C-1)} .
Therefore, the maximum current through the electrical network is less than the weight of the minimum cut of the flow graph: lim V i n → ∞ ( I i n ) ≤ min X C ∑ ( a , b ) ∈ X C w a b .
In mathematics, the four color theorem, or the four color map theorem, states that no more than four colors are required to color the regions of any map so that no two adjacent regions have the same color.
Denjoy–Riesz theorem The Denjoy–Riesz theorem gives general conditions under which a point set can be covered by the homeomorphic image of a curve.
The Star of David theorem is a mathematical result on arithmetic properties of binomial coefficients.
Next, replace every vertex v ∈ V ( D ) {\displaystyle v\in V(D)} by two vertices v ′ {\displaystyle v'} and v ″ {\displaystyle v''} , and replace every directed edge u v {\displaystyle uv} of the oriented graph by an undirected edge from u ′ {\displaystyle u'} to v ″ {\displaystyle v''} .
A parallel development of similar ideas in algebraic topology has been credited to Egbert van Kampen, Arnold S.
It is a fundamental tool in statistical mechanics and probabilistic combinatorics (especially random graphs and the probabilistic method).
Similarly, the minimum fractional vertex-cover size in G = ( V , E ) {\displaystyle G=(V,E)} is the solution of the following LP:Minimize 1V · y Subject to: y ≥ 0V __________ AGT · y ≥ 1E.where y is a vector of size |V| in which each element represents the weight of a vertex in the fractional cover.
Preliminaries Hall's marriage theorem provides a condition guaranteeing that a bipartite graph (X + Y, E) admits a perfect matching, or - more generally - a matching that saturates all vertices of Y.
Halin graphs A Halin graph is a graph formed from an undirected plane tree (with no degree-two nodes) by connecting its leaves into a cycle, in the order given by the plane embedding of the tree.
Motivated by the finite field Kakeya conjecture, Wolff conjectured that when p is a (large) prime, for every subset A ⊆ 𝔽p, the inequality max(|A + A|, |AA|) ≥ min(p, |A|1+ε) holds for an absolute constant ε > 0.
Sharpness of the conjecture Erdős and Szemerédi give an example of a sufficiently smooth set of integers A with the bound max { | A + A | , | A ⋅ A | } ≤ | A | 2 e − c log ⁡ | A | log ⁡ log ⁡ | A | {\displaystyle \max\{|A+A|,|A\cdot A|\}\leq |A|^{2}e^{-{\frac {c\log |A|}{\log \log |A|}}}} .
The geometric realization of K Δ ∗ 2 {\displaystyle K_{\Delta }^{*2}} is homeomorphic to the sphere S d + 1 {\displaystyle S^{d+1}} , therefore, the Z2-index of K Δ ∗ 2 {\displaystyle K_{\Delta }^{*2}} equals d + 1 {\displaystyle d+1} .
In other words, the proportion of nodes in the tree at level n never drops below a lower bound, no matter how deep we go down the tree.
In any case, to deal with this degree 5 vertex case requires a more complicated notion than removing a vertex.
Frederic Chyzak Enumerating alcohols and other classes of chemical molecules, an example of Pólya theory.
A coloring with the number of colors described by Brooks' theorem is sometimes called a Brooks coloring or a Δ-coloring.
The conjecture In 1973, Stefan Burr and Paul Erdős made the following conjecture: For every integer p there exists a constant cp so that any p-degenerate graph G on n vertices has Ramsey number at most cp n.
{\displaystyle \gcd \left({n-1 \choose k-2},{n-1 \choose k-1},{n-1 \choose k},{n-1 \choose k+1}\right).} Thus in the above example for the element 84 (in its rightmost appearance), we also have gcd(70, 56, 28, 8) = 2.
Then S has to be a Tutte violator, since if odd(G − S) ≤ |S|, then we could find a perfect matching by matching one vertex from every odd component with a vertex from S and pairing up all other vertices (this will work unless |V| is odd, but then ∅ is a Tutte violator).
Then, one can use these better gates to recursively create even better gates, until one has gates with the desired failure probability, which can be used for the desired quantum circuit.
For any computable function that represents an increase in computational resources, one can find a resource bound such that the set of functions computable within the expanded resource bound is the same as the set computable within the original bound.
The De Bruijn–Erdős theorem may also be used to extend Dilworth's theorem from finite to infinite partially ordered sets.
It belongs to the field of combinatorics, and is named after John Adrian Bondy, who published it in 1972.
Let P f ( N ) {\displaystyle {\mathcal {P}}_{f}(\mathbb {N} )} denote the set of finite subsets of N {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} } , and define a partial order on P f ( N ) {\displaystyle {\mathcal {P}}_{f}(\mathbb {N} )} by α<β if and only if max α<min β.
Therefore, the upper bound theorem implies that the number of faces of an arbitrary polytope can never be more than the number of faces of a cyclic or neighborly polytope with the same dimension and number of vertices.
Planar graphs are also not capable of realizing all groups as their symmetries; for instance, the only finite simple groups that are symmetries of planar graphs are the cyclic groups and the alternating group A 5 {\displaystyle A_{5}} .
Generalizing both Helly's theorem and Doignon's theorem, the Helly number of the Cartesian product Z d × R k {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} ^{d}\times \mathbb {R} ^{k}} is 2 d ( k + 1 ) {\displaystyle 2^{d}(k+1)} .
Then, alternatively, the Milliken–Taylor theorem asserts that the collection of MTk sets is partition regular for each k.
(1967), Theory of Recursive Functions and Effective Computability, McGraw-Hill, MR 0224462 Truss, J.
Both Nash-Williams' theorem and Menger's theorem characterize when a graph has k edge-disjoint paths between two vertices.
Fulkerson (1960) obtained a characterization analogous to the classical Erdős–Gallai theorem for graphs, but in contrast to this solution with exponentially many inequalities.
Neural network solutions The knight's tour problem also lends itself to being solved by a neural network implementation.
One important consequence of the theorem is that, for reversible cellular automata, the reverse dynamics of the automaton can also be described by a cellular automaton.
Proof of Van der Waerden's theorem (in a special case) The following proof is due to Ron Graham, B.L.
More generally, every planar graph of minimum degree at least three either has an edge of total degree at most 12, or at least 60 edges that (like the edges in the triakis icosahedron) connect vertices of degrees 3 and 10.
The first graph R {\displaystyle \mathbf {R} } is obtained by replacing each edge { v i , v j } {\displaystyle \{v_{i},v_{j}\}} of R {\displaystyle R} with the complete bipartite graph between the corresponding vertex sets V i {\displaystyle V_{i}} and V j {\displaystyle V_{j}} .
In this way, the combinatorial formulation for finite families of finite sets and the graph-theoretic formulation for finite graphs are equivalent.
Blum's speedup theorem, which provides speedup by any computable function (not just linear, as in the previous theorem).
The problem of obtaining bounds in the k=3 case of Szemerédi's theorem in the vector space F 3 n {\displaystyle \mathbb {F} _{3}^{n}} is known as the cap set problem.
One could try to fix it by requiring that NH(Y0) contain at least |Y0| disjoint edges, rather than just |Y0| edges.
If there is still several non-eliminated candidates after all ballots have been examined, then an arbitrary tie-breaking rule is used.
The number of configurations in this graph is O ( 2 f ( n ) ) {\displaystyle O(2^{f(n)})} , from which it follows that applying the algorithm to this implicit graph uses space O ( f ( n ) 2 ) {\displaystyle O(f(n)^{2})} .
The function SCG ( k ) {\displaystyle {\text{SCG}}(k)} denotes that length for (general) subcubic graphs.
(Each machine, once purchased, can be used by any selected project.) To solve the problem, let P be the set of projects not selected and Q be the set of machines purchased, then the problem can be formulated as, max { g } = ∑ i r ( p i ) − ∑ p i ∈ P r ( p i ) − ∑ q j ∈ Q c ( q j ) .
Since we have a contradiction in all cases, the original hypothesis must be false; thus there must exist at least one combinatorial line consisting entirely of noughts or entirely of crosses.
For instance, the most frequently used bricks in the USA have dimensions 2 1 4 ⋅ 4 ⋅ 8 {\displaystyle 2{\tfrac {1}{4}}\cdot 4\cdot 8} (in inches), which is not harmonic, but a type of brick sold as "Roman brick" has the harmonic dimensions 2 ⋅ 4 ⋅ 12 {\displaystyle 2\cdot 4\cdot 12} .
In other words, whatever colours you use, there will always be at least one monochromatic triangle ( that is, a triangle all of whose edges have the same color ).
For example, V 2 ( 20 ) = 4 {\displaystyle V_{2}(20)=4} , and V 3 ( 20 ) = 1 {\displaystyle V_{3}(20)=1} .
S must preserve the branching structure of T; i.e., if a nonmaximal node in S has n immediate successors in T, then it has n immediate successors in S.
This allows the correctness of a planarity testing algorithm to be verified for nonplanar inputs, as it is straightforward to test whether a given subgraph is or is not a Kuratowski subgraph.
On the sphere the lower bound is easy, whereas for higher genera the upper bound is easy and was proved in Heawood's original short paper that contained the conjecture.
The buffer vertices are subsequently embedded by using Hall's marriage theorem to find a perfect matching between the buffer vertices and the remaining vertices of G {\displaystyle G} .
The Wallace–Bolyai–Gerwien theorem states that this can be done if and only if two polygons have the same area.
Linear algebra In linear algebra, Schur’s theorem is referred to as either the triangularization of a square matrix with complex entries, or of a square matrix with real entries and real eigenvalues.
In computer science, the Akra–Bazzi method, or Akra–Bazzi theorem, is used to analyze the asymptotic behavior of the mathematical recurrences that appear in the analysis of divide and conquer algorithms where the sub-problems have substantially different sizes.
Let Vi denote the vertices of Gi and let mi denote the number of edges of G with one vertex in Vi and one vertex in U.
The simplex method starts at an arbitrary vertex of the polytope and repeatedly moves towards an adjacent vertex that improves the function value; when no improvement can be made, the optimal function value has been reached.
The Franklin graph can be drawn on the Klein bottle in a way that forms six mutually-adjacent regions, showing that this bound is tight.
Berger, Annabell (2018), "Majorization and the number of bipartite graphs for given vertex degrees", Transactions on Combinatorics, 1: 19–30, doi:10.22108/toc.2017.21469.
More strongly, for every simple polygon, every sequence of flips will eventually produce a convex polygon, in a finite number of steps.
However, the subset sum problem can be reduced to the problem of computing the required partition C1, C2, ..., Cn of columns: Given an input set S for the subset sum problem we can write the elements of S in a matrix of shape 1 × |S|.
{\displaystyle n^{3/2}\left({\frac {1}{2}}+o(1)\right).} Erdős & Simonovits (1982) conjectured that, more generally, the maximum number of edges in a 2k-cycle-free graph is n 1 + 1 / k ( 1 2 + o ( 1 ) ) .
In discrete mathematics, the Bregman–Minc inequality, or Bregman's theorem, allows one to estimate the permanent of a binary matrix via its row or column sums.
Because B P ⋅ ⊕ P {\displaystyle {\mathsf {BP}}\cdot \oplus {\mathsf {P}}} contains P {\displaystyle {\mathsf {P}}} and is closed under complement, it follows by induction that P H ⊆ B P ⋅ ⊕ P {\displaystyle {\mathsf {PH}}\subseteq {\mathsf {BP}}\cdot \oplus {\mathsf {P}}} .
A schema is a template that identifies a subset of strings with similarities at certain string positions.
In this language, the original tetris operation is induced by the map T : n ↦ max { n − 1 , 0 } {\displaystyle T\colon n\mapsto \max\{n-1,0\}} .
Perhaps it is true that: for any non-planar graph H, there exists a positive integer k such that every H-free graph can be obtained via k-clique-sums from a list of graphs, each of which either has at most k vertices or embeds on some surface that H does not embed on.
Neutrality: the decision rule treats each alternative or candidate equally (a free and fair election).
The Pólya enumeration theorem has been incorporated into symbolic combinatorics and the theory of combinatorial species.
(1971), "Pancyclic graphs", Proceedings of the Second Louisiana Conference on Combinatorics, Graph Theory and Computing (Louisiana State Univ., Baton Rouge, La., 1971), Baton Rouge, Louisiana: Louisiana State University, pp.
Bounds on the Erdős–Pósa function In addition to proving that the function f(k) exists, Erdős & Pósa (1965) obtained the bounds c1k log k < f(k) < c2k log k for some constants c1 and c2.
The Sylvester–Gallai theorem implies that it is impossible for all nine of these points to have real coordinates.
Quantum analogs Nonlocal games version A version of the PCP theorem for quantum nonlocal games would state that it is computationally hard to approximate the quantum value of a quantum nonlocal game.
For any noncomputable subset X {\displaystyle X} of ω {\displaystyle \omega } the tree has a path that does not compute X {\displaystyle X} .
For any subtree T {\displaystyle T} of ω < ω {\displaystyle \omega ^{<\omega }} the notation Ext ⁡ ( T ) {\displaystyle \operatorname {Ext} (T)} denotes the set of nodes of T {\displaystyle T} through which there is an infinite path.
If no more than n − k points lie on any line for some 0 ≤ k < n − 2, then there exist Ω(nk) lines determined by the points of S.
Conversely, if O is a set of operations, then Inv(O) denotes the set of relations having all operations in O as a polymorphism.
Regan’s thesis is that the existence of linear speedup has to do with having a polynomial information vicinity.
For the complete graph, every two vertices are at distance one from each other, so every edge must belong to exactly one of these complete bipartite graphs.
Pósa-Seymour Conjecture In 1962, Lajos Pósa conjectured that every n {\displaystyle n} -vertex graph with minimum degree at least 2 n 3 {\displaystyle {\frac {2n}{3}}} contains the square of a Hamiltonian cycle, generalizing Dirac's theorem.
Erdős asked whether it could be the case that lim sup n → ∞ r B , 2 ( n ) log ⁡ n > 0 {\displaystyle \limsup _{n\to \infty }{\frac {r_{{\mathcal {B}},2}(n)}{\log n}}>0} whenever B ⊆ N {\displaystyle {\mathcal {B}}\subseteq \mathbb {N} } is an additive basis of order 2.
All faces (including the outer one) are then bounded by three edges, explaining the alternative term plane triangulation (which technically means a plane drawing of the graph).
Computational complexity Given a triangle-free planar graph, a 3-coloring of the graph can be found in linear time.
With some further transformations it can be turned into a single strip, and hence gives a method for transforming a triangle mesh such that its dual graph becomes hamiltonian.
The pure-group languages were the first interesting family of regular languages for which the star height problem was proved to be decidable.
There are typically many cuts in a graph, but cuts with smaller weights are often more difficult to find.
For triangle-free graphs, or more generally graphs in which the neighborhood of every vertex is sufficiently sparse, O(Δ/log Δ) colors suffice.
The theorem is named after Victor Eberhard, a blind German mathematician, who published it in 1888 in his habilitation thesis and in expanded form in an 1891 book on polyhedra.
(1984), "A correlational inequality for linear extensions of a poset", Order, 1 (2): 127–137, doi:10.1007/BF00565648, ISSN 0167-8094, MR 0764320, S2CID 121406218 "Fishburn-Shepp inequality", Encyclopedia of Mathematics, EMS Press, 2001 [1994] Shepp, L.
Now we apply Radon's theorem to the set A = {x1, ..., xn}, which furnishes us with disjoint subsets A1, A2 of A such that the convex hull of A1 intersects the convex hull of A2.
Similarly, he observed that perfect graphs cannot contain odd antiholes, induced subgraphs complementary to odd holes: an odd antihole with 2k + 1 vertices has clique number k and chromatic number k + 1, which is again impossible for perfect graphs.
Another way of stating Wagner's theorem is that there are only two minor-minimal non-planar graphs, K5 and K3,3.
That is, if each edge of the complete bipartite graph is assigned a set of n {\displaystyle n} colors, it is possible to choose one of the assigned colors for each edge such that no two edges incident to the same vertex have the same color.
History The theorem is named after German mathematician Herbert Grötzsch, who published its proof in 1959.
And for the cycles in a disjoint cycle cover to have a given collection of lengths, it is also necessary for the sum of the given cycle lengths to equal the total number of edges in the given graph.
Furthermore, this implication is strict, as there are models of ZF minus regularity in which Frucht's theorem for infinite groups fails.
The counterexample given above for a continuous and shift-equivariant map which is not a classical cellular automaton, is an example of a generalized cellular automaton.
For any elements x {\displaystyle x} and y {\displaystyle y} in a vector space, the set [ x , y ] := { t x + ( 1 − t ) y : 0 ≤ t ≤ 1 } {\displaystyle [x,y]:=\{tx+(1-t)y:0\leq t\leq 1\}} is called the closed line segment or closed interval between x {\displaystyle x} and y .
Knuth, Donald (2011), "7.2.1.3", The Art of Computer Programming, volume 4A: Combinatorial algorithms, part 1, p.
Additionally, subdividing a graph cannot turn a nonplanar graph into a planar graph: if a subdivision of a graph G {\displaystyle G} has a planar drawing, the paths of the subdivision form curves that may be used to represent the edges of G {\displaystyle G} itself.
A closely related theorem by Meyniel (1973) states that an n-vertex strongly connected digraph with the property that, for every two nonadjacent vertices u and v, the total number of edges incident to u or v is at least 2n − 1 must be Hamiltonian.
In 2019, Peter Allen, Julia Böttcher, Hiep Hàn, Yoshiharu Kohayakawa, and Yury Person, found sparse analogues of the blow-up lemma for embedding bounded degree graphs into random and pseudorandom graphs == References ==
In a partial geometry, a largest system of pairwise-intersecting lines can be obtained from the set of lines through any single point.
Then there exists a family P of disjoint A-B-paths and a separating set which consists of exactly one vertex from each path in P.
Informally, the conclusion is that such words w {\displaystyle w} have also a third, shorter period.
In extremal graph theory, the even circuit theorem is a result of Paul Erdős according to which an n-vertex graph that does not have a simple cycle of length 2k can only have O(n1 + 1/k) edges.
Since the Indic writing systems used for Sanskrit are syllabic, each syllable can be thought of as representing a square on a chessboard.
Generalizing Hall's theorem to hypergraphs requires a generalization of the concepts of bipartiteness, perfect matching, and neighbors.
Let v {\displaystyle v} be the vertex added to G ′ {\displaystyle G'} to obtain G {\displaystyle G} .
However, for planar graphs with vertices of degree lower than three, variants of the theorem have been proven, showing that either there is an edge of bounded total degree or some other special kind of subgraph.
On the other hand, this bound would not remain valid if one replaces the coefficient 2.44 with 0.42.
it gives a necessary and sufficient condition for two finite sequences of natural numbers to be the degree sequence of a labeled simple bipartite graph; a sequence obeying these conditions is called "bigraphic".
Veblen, Oswald (1912), "An Application of Modular Equations in Analysis Situs", Annals of Mathematics, Second Series, 14 (1): 86–94, doi:10.2307/1967604, JSTOR 1967604
Pogorelov's uniqueness theorem is a result by Pogorelov generalizing both of these results and applying to general convex surfaces.
Equivalently, Player 1's strategy guarantees them a payoff of V regardless of Player 2's strategy, and similarly Player 2 can guarantee themselves a payoff of −V.
Richard Karp's subsequent paper, "Reducibility among combinatorial problems", generated renewed interest in Cook's paper by providing a list of 21 NP-complete problems.
CON's score is the number of explosions when all vertices are gone, or infinity if some isolated vertices remain.
Ordinal analysis confirms the strength of Kruskal's theorem, with the proof-theoretic ordinal of the theorem equaling the small Veblen ordinal (sometimes confused with the smaller Ackermann ordinal).
AM = MA A modification of the above proof yields N P ⊆ P / p o l y ⟹ A M = M A {\displaystyle {\mathsf {NP}}\subseteq {\mathsf {P/poly}}\implies {\mathsf {AM}}={\mathsf {MA}}} (see Arthur–Merlin protocol).
The following claim appears in the literature under name of the blow-up lemma and was first proven by Komlós, Sárközy, and Szemerédi.
(2003), "5.1 Nonembeddability Theorems: An Introduction", Using the Borsuk–Ulam Theorem: Lectures on Topological Methods in Combinatorics and Geometry, Springer-Verlag, pp.
The Robertson–Seymour theorem states that finite undirected graphs and graph minors form a well-quasi-ordering.
In 2005 Irit Dinur discovered a significantly simpler proof of the PCP theorem, using expander graphs.
Truemper observed that every grid graph is reducible by ΔY- and YΔ-transformations in this way, that this reducibility is preserved by graph minors, and that every planar graph is a minor of a grid graph.
The class P#P consists of all problems that can be solved in polynomial time if you have access to instantaneous answers to any counting problem in #P (polynomial time relative to a #P oracle).
Together with the speedup theorem, the gap theorem and the time and space hierarchy theorems it is a basis for hierarchies in complexity theory.
Braids are algebraic objects described by diagrams; the relation to topology is given by Alexander's theorem which states that every knot or link in three-dimensional Euclidean space is the closure of a braid.
If none of AB, BC, CA is blue, then all three edges are red and we have a red triangle, namely, ABC.
The (still unsolved) Erdős–Ulam problem asks whether there can exist a set of points at rational distances from each other that forms a dense set for the whole Euclidean plane.
Statement of the theorem If r ≥ 0 is finite and κ is an infinite cardinal, then exp r ⁡ ( κ ) + ⟶ ( κ + ) κ r + 1 {\displaystyle \exp _{r}(\kappa )^{+}\longrightarrow (\kappa ^{+})_{\kappa }^{r+1}} where exp0(κ) = κ and inductively expr+1(κ)=2expr(κ).
Analogously, a set of added wires (which can bend to reduce the distance between the points they connect, but cannot expand) makes the grid rigid if an associated directed graph is strongly connected.
The existential power of the first quantifier in this predicate can be used to guess a correct circuit for SAT, and the universal power of the second quantifier can be used to verify that the circuit is correct.
(1969), "A generalization of a combinatorial theorem of Macaulay", Journal of Combinatorial Theory, 7 (3): 230–238, doi:10.1016/S0021-9800(69)80016-5, MR 0246781.
(1978), "An inequality for the weights of two families of sets, their unions and intersections", Probability Theory and Related Fields, 43 (3): 183–185, CiteSeerX 10.1.1.380.8629, doi:10.1007/BF00536201, ISSN 0178-8051, MR 0491189, S2CID 120659862 Alon, N.; Spencer, J.
Steinitz's theorem says that the polyhedral graphs formed from convex polyhedra are precisely the finite 3-connected simple planar graphs.
Thus, a trivial extension to the hypothesis for point sets in Rd is not sufficient to obtain the desired result.
It includes as a special case the Erdős–Ko–Rado theorem and can be restated in terms of uniform hypergraphs.
In other words, a game form is essentially defined like an n-player game, but with no utilities associated to the possible outcomes: it describes the procedure only, without specifying a priori the gain that each agent would get from each outcome.
The Valiant–Vazirani theorem implies that the Boolean satisfiability problem, which is NP-complete, remains a computationally hard problem even if the input instances are promised to have at most one satisfying assignment.
The function f that uses this rule to map a configuration of the cellular automaton into its successor configuration is necessarily equivariant with respect to the shift map, by the assumption that all positions use the same update rule.
The coefficients q k {\textstyle q_{k}} are up to sign the coefficients of the characteristic polynomial of Q.
The tours are not only reentrant but also symmetrical, and the verses are based on the same tour, starting from different squares.
Examples The case d = 1 {\displaystyle d=1} states that any 2 r − 1 {\displaystyle 2r-1} points on the real line can be partitioned into r {\displaystyle r} subsets with intersecting convex hulls.
History The result is named after Haim Hanani, who proved in 1934 that every drawing of the two minimal non-planar graphs K5 and K3,3 has a pair of edges with an odd number of crossings, and after W.
To reverse the process, take any sequence of (q-1) B's and p A's and search from the end to find where the number of A's first exceeds the number of B's, and then interchange the order of the parts and place a B in between.
Conversely (and substantially more difficult to prove), if Γ is a rectifiable curve, then β(Γ) < CH1(Γ).
(2009), "The strong perfect graph conjecture: 40 years of attempts, and its resolution", Discrete Mathematics, 309 (20): 6092–6113, doi:10.1016/j.disc.2009.05.024, MR 2552645.
There are infinitely many of these extended paths, each of which connects from v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} to one of its neighbors, but v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} has only finitely many neighbors.
For example n ( 1 ) = 3 {\displaystyle n(1)=3} , n ( 2 ) = 11 {\displaystyle n(2)=11} , and n ( 3 ) > 2 ↑ 7197 158386 {\displaystyle n(3)>2\uparrow ^{7197}158386} .
Vatter (2011) later extended the characterization of growth rates of permutation classes up to a specific algebraic number κ≈2.20.
Theodore Motzkin (1951) confirmed that it does by proving that t 2 ( n ) ≥ n {\displaystyle t_{2}(n)\geq {\sqrt {n}}} .
May's theorem states that simple majority voting is the unique social welfare function satisfying all three of the following conditions: Anonymity: The social choice function treats all voters the same, i.e.
If the label of the node is not +, apply ψ α {\displaystyle \psi _{\alpha }} , where α {\displaystyle \alpha } is the label of the node, and ψ {\displaystyle \psi } is Buchholz's function.
S preserves the level structure of T; all nodes on a common level of S must be on a common level in T.
It may be given the structure of a topological space according to the Cantor topology, in which the fundamental open sets are the sets of configurations that match any single pattern and the open sets are arbitrary unions of fundamental open sets.
Kawarabayashi & Mohar (2007) and Lovász (2006) are surveys accessible to nonspecialists, describing the theorem and its consequences.
Because of the limitation of computation resources, as explained above, the tree is limited to a look-ahead of 4 moves.
If | S | {\displaystyle |S|} is neither too small nor too large, then noting that A := V i ( T ) ∖ ⋃ z ∈ S F z ( T ) {\displaystyle A:=V_{i}(T)\setminus \bigcup _{z\in S}F_{z}(T)} is a large set of unused vertices, we can use the main lemma and union-bound the failure probability.
It is sometimes also attributed to Đuro Kurepa who proved it under the additional assumption of the generalised continuum hypothesis, and hence the result is sometimes also referred to as the Erdős–Rado–Kurepa theorem.
Pósa's theorem, in graph theory, is a sufficient condition for the existence of a Hamiltonian cycle based on the degrees of the vertices in an undirected graph.
There exist at least n 2 / K {\displaystyle n^{2}/K} lines, each of which contains at least two of the points.
They provide such a characterization, in terms of the Ferrers diagrams of the corresponding partitions, and show that it is equivalent to the Erdős–Gallai theorem.
{\displaystyle \lim _{V_{in}\rightarrow \infty }(I_{in})=\min _{X_{C}}\sum _{(a,b)\in X_{C}}w_{ab}.} Proof Claim 1 Current at any resistive element in the electrical network in either direction is always less than or equal to the maximum flow at the corresponding edge in the graph.
To prove the existence of a partition into a small number of antichains for an arbitrary finite partially ordered set, consider for every element x the chains that have x as their largest element, and let N(x) denote the size of the largest of these x-maximal chains.
{\displaystyle \lfloor n^{2}/4\rfloor .} In other words, one must delete slightly over half of the edges in K n {\displaystyle K_{n}} to obtain a triangle-free graph.
The theorem was first published by Kenneth May in 1952.[1] Various modifications have been suggested by others since the original publication.
Bertrand's and André's proofs Bertrand expressed the solution as 2 m − μ μ {\displaystyle {\frac {2m-\mu }{\mu }}} where μ = p + q {\displaystyle \mu =p+q} is the total number of voters and m = p {\displaystyle m=p} is the number of voters for the first candidate.
The condition on the number of vertices can be omitted from this result when the degree is odd, because in that case (by the handshaking lemma) the number of vertices is always even.
The name "master theorem" was popularized by the widely used algorithms textbook Introduction to Algorithms by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein.
In the case where the trees above are taken to be unlabeled (that is, in the case where X {\displaystyle X} has size one), Friedman found that the result was unprovable in ATR0, thus giving the first example of a predicative result with a provably impredicative proof.
Carlitz, An Application of MacMahon's Master Theorem, SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics 26 (1974), 431–436.
Szőkefalvi-Nagy's proof had an incorrect case, which was pointed out in a 1995 survey of the problem by Branko Grünbaum; however, the proofs by Grünbaum and Godfried Toussaint are similarly incomplete.
Then the size of the minimum edge cut for x and y (the minimum number of edges whose removal disconnects x and y) is equal to the maximum number of pairwise edge-disjoint paths from x to y.
Due to symmetry, the corresponding estimate also holds for d ( w i ) {\displaystyle d(w_{i})} instead of d ( v i ) {\displaystyle d(v_{i})} .
More generally, it asserts that the morphisms between any two shift spaces (that is, continuous mappings that commute with the shift) are exactly those mappings which can be defined uniformly by a local rule.
Xu and Zhou proved that |AA| = Ω(|A|2 log1−2log(2)−o(1)(|A|)) for any dense subset A of an arithmetic progression in integers, which is sharp up to the o(1) in the exponent.
In this context, a ordinal (ranked) social choice function is a function F : { A , B , 0 } N → { A , B , 0 } {\displaystyle F:\{A,B,0\}^{N}\to \{A,B,0\}} which aggregates individuals' preferences into a single preference.
In the mathematical discipline of graph theory, the 2-factor theorem, discovered by Julius Petersen, is one of the earliest works in graph theory.
A simpler version of the formula replaces H′(w) with H(w)(1 − φ′(w)/φ(w)) to get [ z n ] H ( g ( z ) ) = [ w n ] H ( w ) ϕ ( w ) n − 1 ( ϕ ( w ) − w ϕ ′ ( w ) ) , {\displaystyle [z^{n}]H(g(z))=[w^{n}]H(w)\phi (w)^{n-1}(\phi (w)-w\phi '(w)),} which involves φ′(w) instead of H′(w).
The input graph is considered to be represented in a separate read-only memory and does not contribute to this auxiliary space bound.
In this case the matching eliminates the odd degree at each vertex, leaving a subgraph of even degree, and the remaining condition is again that the sum of the cycle lengths equals the number of edges to be covered.
Decisiveness: if the vote is tied, adding a single voter (who expresses an opinion) will break the tie.
Using an approach similar to the one he used for the case k = 3, Roth gave a second proof for k = 4 in 1972.
"Commentary on "Longest increasing subsequences: From patience sorting to the Baik–Deift–Johansson theorem" by David Aldous and Persi Diaconis".
For uncountable regular cardinals κ {\displaystyle \kappa } (and some other cardinals) this can be strengthened to κ → ( κ , ω + 1 ) 2 {\displaystyle \kappa \rightarrow (\kappa ,\omega +1)^{2}} ; however, it is consistent that this strengthening does not hold for the cardinality of the continuum.
Totten trusts can be created only with certain types of depository accounts or securities; in particular they can not be used to convey real property.
In 2019, a group of stakeholders filed a lawsuit, arguing that the 2019 no-fault law's fee schedule should not be applied retroactively.
Reinsurance One insurance company may purchase insurance from another insurance company for the purposes of risk management.
That rule provided that any future disposition of property must vest within "a life in being plus 21 years".
However, if a settlor validly transfers property to a third party, and the words used are held not to create a trust, the usual rule is that the donee takes the property absolutely.
Influencers often learn to decipher their victim's needs and desires, they will leverage them to gain a foothold in the persons' life.
Disclaimer of other interests In addition to the more typical disclaimer under wills, an individual may also be able to disclaim his interest as the beneficiary of a life insurance policy or employee benefit plans.
In all cases, the trustee may be a person or company, regardless of whether they are a prospective beneficiary.
Supreme Court defined the Massachusetts trust as a form of business organization, common in Massachusetts consisting essentially of an arrangement whereby property is conveyed to trustees: in accordance with terms of the trust.
The perpetrator then slams on the brakes causing a rear-end collision (usually with no brake lights).
By country Australia In Australia, a family trust refers to a type of discretionary trust, set up to manage the assets of a family or its business.
The survival period used varies from company to company, however, 14 days is the most typical survival period used.
A Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust (CRAT) is a Planned Giving vehicle defined in §664 of the United States Internal Revenue Code that entails a donor placing a major gift of cash or property into an irrevocable trust.
In her will Dorothy left her sons an usufruct (which is similar to a common-law life estate; the Boggs lived in Louisiana which recognizes the concept) to 2/3 of Isaac's life-estate.
This arrangement differs from a bank trustee or a corporate trustee, both of which mainly focus on legalities and accounting in the public arena.
On appeal, this judgment was confirmed unanimously by a panel of four appeal judges in Queen's Bench.
The Menlo Park Property remained in his name as an unmarried man and there was no grant deed reconveying this property to his trust.
Residuary estate - the portion of an estate remaining after the payment of expenses and the distribution of specific bequests; this passes to the residuary legatees.
These reasons, among others, may help explain why annuities offered in these two countries are not particularly popular with U.S.
For example, in Utah, a will must be "signed by the testator or in the testator's name by some other individual in the testator's conscious presence and by the testator's direction; and...
Thomson Reuters define an attestation clause as where "a document has been executed in the presence of one or more witnesses (who attest the execution)".
Under the law, only the interest and other income would be spent, while the principal would accumulate.
Normally there is no need to sue the carrier in such states as Virginia unless there is a dispute as to coverage.
The person identified in such a clause is called the residuary taker, residuary beneficiary, residuary legatee, or residuary devisee.
However, as states began enacting varying statutes to create a statutory framework for the durable powers of attorney, variations from state to state prompted support for a uniform law.
Inter vivos (Law Latin, between the living) is a legal term referring to a transfer or gift made during one's lifetime, as opposed to a testamentary transfer that takes effect on the death of the giver.
High cost In 2011, out-of-work sickness benefits had an annual cost of £13 billion: the Chancellor, George Osborne, called this "a very large budget".
In an effort to address this substantial power distinction, many states allow for the burden of proof to be shifted to the alleged influencer if certain requirements are satisfied.
Many plaintiffs' attorneys also argued that defense lawyers had many ways to establish different theories of exposure.
The insurer is given the freedom (discretion) regarding: Internal control framework used, and Nature and extent of documentation The insurer has aforementioned discretion under the Model Audit Rule to achieve internal control objectives in a cost-effective manner.
No-fault insurance is any type of insurance contract under which the insured party is indemnified by their own insurance company for losses, regardless of the source of the cause of loss.
Examples include documents containing standard terms and conditions, or references to previous contracts between the two parties, whose terms are to apply to a further transaction.
He believed "bequest" in 102(a) had been interpreted by the courts to include bequests made for consideration between the beneficiary and decedent.
A collective trust fund or collective investment trust (CIT) is a legal trust administered by a bank or trust company that combines assets for multiple investors who meet specific requirements set forth in the fund's declaration of trust.
[and the] purpose must also be that of a reasonably normal testator and cannot be capricious." In some jurisdictions, a trust for the saying of masses may be allowed.
Charitable trust: This is an irrevocable trust established for charitable purposes and, in some jurisdictions, a more specific term than "charitable organization".
Code 91-9-701 et seq.), South Dakota, Wyoming, Tennessee, Utah, Oklahoma, Colorado, Missouri, Rhode Island and New Hampshire.
17), until the end of the next session of parliament after 1 year from 13 February 1692 (25 April 1694).
People over state pension age who were claiming Incapacity Benefit before they reached this age were eligible to receive Incapacity Benefit for up to one year after they became eligible for the state pension.
It discloses a means for auto insurance risk selection whereby a driver’s mileage and driving behavior are monitored and insurance premiums are charged accordingly.
If the will provides that the beneficiary receives a percentage of the testator's estate, the court may engage in a hotchpot calculation to determine the amount, if any, that the beneficiary should receive under the will.
Participants or members are not obliged to transfer any assets to such an organization to achieve the goals of charitable activity.
See also Merger doctrine (civil procedure) Merger doctrine (family law) Merger doctrine (property law) == References ==
A caveat is not to be used to extend the time for bringing a claim for financial provision from a person's estate, such as under the Inheritance (Provision for Family and Dependants) Act 1975.
Today it applies to contracts in which the duration and amount of payments by one side will vary according to uncertain events, as happens in gambling, insurance, speculative investment and life annuities.
As a component of salary Many large companies grant stock or stock options in the form of restricted stock units to employees as part of their compensation.
Simultaneous death is a problem of inheritance which occurs when two people (sometimes referred to as commorientes) die at, or very near, the same time, and at least one of them is entitled to part or all of the other's estate on their death.
Because it was common practice it was important that an authoritative decision be given as to whether such an administrative company should be treated as a trustee de son tort.
Similar reforms were also made in several Australian states and the Canadian province of British Columbia.
Shortly after that, other states followed until, by 1871, nearly every state had "some type of supervision and control over insurance companies." Often the legislation and rules promulgated by insurance commissions of one state conflicted with those of others.
Family trusts are vehicles for the protection of family assets or the employ of a tax minimisation strategy.
For income tax purposes, the income so accruing to the income beneficiary is taxable income of the beneficiary, and taxed accordingly, unless otherwise exempted.
Filing paperwork to the probate court In addition to filing the inventory, administrators must submit a wide array of paperwork to properly administer a decedent's estate.
Life tenancy investments It is becoming increasingly popular for private investors to place funds into a life tenancy investment.
Some jurisdictions will not recognize an oral contract for such a purpose, requiring instead that the contract be executed in writing and signed by both parties.
Beginning in the 1990s, vesting periods in the United States are usually 3–5 years for employees, but shorter for board members and others whose expected tenure at a company is shorter.
The purpose of the demand letters was to determine if the funds are reimbursing states for medical treatment received under Medicaid and Medicare.
10) until the next session of parliament 7 years after the start of the present session of parliament.
The probate court will then oversee the process of distributing the deceased's assets to the proper beneficiaries.
In taking an essentially religious view of these events, these Englishmen seem to the present writer to have had every justification.
In such a case, the trust is sometimes deemed to have terminated (with the result that the beneficiary owns the trust property outright).
In other words, the law of intestate succession applies only: when the testator has left no valid will or testamentary disposition contained in a valid pactum successorium (e.g., antenuptial contract, gift mortis causa); or when he leaves a will which fails for some or other reason.
The court will not usually validate non-charitable purpose trusts which fail by treating them as a power.
103 were run at no cost by TV stations only due to the fairness doctrine in place at the time, with some equal-time ads.
Although still called KC clauses, such clauses often provide that the advice of a junior barrister of a certain seniority may be taken.
Overview Collective trusts are commonly used for defined benefit plans and, when daily valuation is possible, for defined contribution plans.
John Jarndyce, by contrast, finds the whole process tiresome and tries to have as little to do with it as he possibly can, one of many examples of the character's wise and self-effacing demeanour.
A specific legacy (or specific bequest) is a testamentary gift of a precisely identifiable object, distinguished from all other things of the same kind — such as, a gift of a particular piece of jewelry.
The demanding nature of Solvency II legislation compared to current regulations has attracted criticism.
A common feature of trusts in all common law jurisdictions is that they may be run either by family members (a private trust) or by trustees appointed by the court.
In 2004, the caseload peaked at just under 2,500,000 then began to fall slowly, but caseloads never fell lower than they were in 1995.
This recognition often involves "translating" the trust's characteristics into legal concepts that do exist within the civil law country.
2007) was a Missouri court case which set out the legal test to demonstrate bad faith by an insurer.
In the United States, a rabbi trust is a type of trust used by businesses or other entities to defer the taxability to the person or entity receiving (the payee) such payments as employee compensation or purchase payments in the acquisition of another business.
In addition, captive insurers and other self-insurance arrangements such as workers compensation self-insurance programs and State workers compensation reinsurance pools are included.
The DST ownership option essentially offers the same benefits and risks that an investor would receive as a single large-scale investment property owner, but without the management responsibility.
Not only has Florida codified the slayer rule, but the Florida Statutes also contain a provision depriving a surviving person of the benefits of inheritance when convicted of abuse, neglect, exploitation, or the aggravated manslaughter of an elderly person or a disabled adult.
Oregon Oregon enforces no-contest clauses against losing parties even when there was probable cause to contest the will.
See also Beneficiary (trust) Beneficial ownership Birth certificate Estate planning Inheritance Legal fiction Registered owner == References ==
The largest direct-action lawsuit in history ($333 million) was the subject matter of the motion picture Erin Brockovich.
Voting trusts were made popular in Delaware corporate law, but they have since been adopted widely by other states in the United States.
The order of abatement is usually: Intestate property The residuary of the estate General Devises—i.e., cash gifts Demonstrative Devises—i.e., cash gifts from a specific account, stocks, bonds, securities, etc.
Some regulate all insurance activity taking place within the particular jurisdiction, but allow their citizens to purchase insurance "offshore".
The Illinois Supreme Court found: Even if plaintiff were to successfully build the two proposed houses in the floodway at an elevation which would not flood, defendant points out, the homes would still be surrounded by moving water during the 100-year floods.
§732.103) North Carolina (extends intestate inheritance out to five degrees of a kinship if they exist.
In the pre-classical period, a testator was required to nominate an heir in order for his will to be valid (heredis institutio).
However, in general, most trust instruments will have provisions which address the following aspects of the administration of the trust: The name of the settlement and definitions and interpretation provisions The legal nature of the trust (i.e.
The resultant gift to the heir receiving "500 shares," would be the date of death value of 500 shares of that particular stock.
For example, a testator might write in the will that "Mary will receive the house held in a trust set when she marries" or "when she has children".
Hadrian then adopted Titus Aurelius Fulvus Boionius Arrius Antoninus, on condition that Antoninus in turn adopt both the natural son of the late Lucius Aelius and a promising young nephew of his wife.
Freeing slaves Another existing use of the fideicommissum is described in G 2.263-266: libertas quoque servo per fideicommissum dari potest if the heres or legatarius is requested to perform the manumissio to become the patronus of the slave so freed.
Since 1 January 2025, private school fees have been subject to the standard rate of VAT (20%); this measure was brought in by the Starmer ministry.
Generally, an ancillary administration proceeding should commence in any county where the decedent's had property.
Many people are still reluctant to draft a proper will, or make bad ones which later prove invalid, or can easily be contested.
During the Principate, so called from Augustus's styling of himself as princeps (first among equals, in the manner of the princeps senatus), emperors consolidated their power by making use of the institutions of Republican Rome rather than overthrowing them outright.
This "judicial accident", as it has been called, influenced the development of state-level insurance regulation.
Nevertheless, under medieval communal society, family land could not be sold except for cause, and the family essentially had a right of first refusal (laudatio parentum) in any such sale; in some places, this restriction also applied to gifts.
However the court ruled that there would be a transitional period to enable insurance companies to comply with the ruling this lasted until the 21 December 2012.
Later registrations require the registration in public record of the trustee's name, and certain details of the trust.
This particular type of trust grew in significance over the years and became known as an Accumulation & Maintenance Trust.
Preferred parties In some states, statute requires probate courts to appoint an administrator from a selected "preferred party list." A preferred party could range from the decedent's surviving widow to a surviving cousin.
Orr was 39; he had promised his wife he would retire if he hadn't reached the Busch Series level by age 40.
Third, repeated use of a medical examiner overcomes any presumption that an insurance company's denial of a claim is a genuine dispute.
The Good Wife season 4 episode "Invitation to an Inquest" revolved around a coroner's inquest into the death of a judge.
If the employer delays in forwarding the contributions according to the legal time frame, then the employer is liable to a surcharge.
The Australia Institute has expressed concern about the "staggering" amount of tax avoided through the use of such trusts, observing Australians with taxable incomes of A$500,000 or more contribute most to the total of assets currently managed by trusts.
If exclusive, the donee can appoint all the property to one or more members of the class of permissible appointees to the exclusion of the other members of the class.
The amount passing to the Grandson upon the death of Grandma will be included in Grandma's estate for estate tax consideration.
Federal law and policy, embodied in the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-119, requires federal agencies to use these standards instead of creating "government-unique" technical standards purely to serve regulatory purposes.
An oral will (or nuncupative will) is a will that has been delivered orally (that is, in speech) to witnesses, as opposed to the usual form of wills, which is written and according to a proper format.
The 9th Circuit made it clear that California law controls the definition of this crucial phrase in disability policies.
Claims are usually successful when it can be shown that the owner/occupier was responsible for an injury, therefore they breached their duty of care.
The testamentary capacity matter is most frequently raised posthumously, when an aggrieved heir contests the will entered into probate.
A will contract is a term used in the law of wills describing a contract to exchange a current performance for a future bequest.
The pool will also be open to members of the public without insurance, those with inadequate insurance, and employers, starting with small businesses, nonprofits and municipalities.
By contrast, most other federal laws will not apply to insurance whether the states regulate in that area or not.
For example, if O conveys property "To A, but if B returns from Florida within the next year, to B"; here, B has a shifting executory interest, and A has a fee simple subject to this shifting executory interest.
That’s because insurance companies can refuse to pay doctors and hospitals for treating patients found to have alcohol in their bodies.
Removal and investigations In November, a federal judge, Cameron McGowan Currie, heard Comey's and James's challenges to the legality of Halligan's appointment.
The final text of the Uniform Trust Code (UTC) was approved by the ULC commissioners in August 2000.
Unlike a general power of appointment, the refusal of the appointed party to exercise a specific power of appointment causes the designated property to revert as a gift to the members of a group or a class.
For example: In fire insurance, an adjustment clause provides that in the event of loss or damage at any location mentioned in the policy, the amount of insurance in force at that location shall be prorated to the burned and unburned portions of the property.
However, if the primary beneficiary or beneficiaries are not alive or do not qualify under any conditions, the assets will probably pass to the contingent beneficiaries.
Essentially, this document is issued to the person who will administer the estate of someone who dies without a will.
The testator devises a general type of property, and then changes the specific items of property within that category.
A child may also be denied the right to take under the will as a pretermitted heir if the child received an advancement against their inheritance - an inter vivos gift from the testator of an amount equivalent to what child might have otherwise received under the will.
"Graded vesting" or called retable vesting (vesting after each year until the employee is fully vested) may be "uniform" (e.g., 20% of the compensation vested each year for five years) or "non-uniform" (e.g., 20%, 30%, and 50% of the compensation vested each year for the next three years).
Under the law in England and Wales oral wills are permitted to military personnel and merchant seamen on duty (see law report below) and it is common practice in Commonwealth countries.
In June 2010, however, the verdict against Transamerica was overturned on appeal In June 2010, Progressive Auto Insurance filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Liberty Mutual over one of Progressive’s Pay As You Drive auto insurance patents.
Ultimus haeres (Latin for ultimate heir) is a concept in Scots law where if a person in Scotland who dies without leaving a will (i.e.
It is permissible in most legal systems for a trust to have a fixed number of beneficiaries and for the trustees to have discretion as to how much each beneficiary receives, or to have a class of beneficiaries from whom they could select members, but provide that the amount to be provided is fixed.
The disinherison must be made expressly and for one of eight just causes; otherwise, it is null (LCC art.
The doctrine of exoneration of liens (sometimes simply referred to as "doctrine of exoneration") refers to a common law rule.
The criminals, in a car in front of the victim, slam on the brakes for no obvious reason, and the victim has no time to react and collides with the car in front.
Trust instruments are generally only used in relation to an inter vivos trust; testamentary trusts are usually created under a will.
The full brothers and sisters of the deceased consequently take a share in both halves of the estate, while the half-brothers and -sisters take a share in one half only of the estate.
In this structure, the grantor remains responsible for paying the income taxes generated by the trust's assets, even though those assets are outside the grantor's estate for transfer tax purposes.
The prudent man rule is based on common law stemming from the 1830 Massachusetts court formulation Harvard College v.
If it is not foreseen by the constitutive contract, the property assets cannot be alienated by either the trustee or the beneficiary.
The abbey of Cluny and its hundreds of daughter houses were central to this: the Cluniac order emphasised an elaborate liturgy as the centre of its common life, developing an unrivalled liturgy for the dead and offering its benefits to its patrons.
In Scots law, bona vacantia relates to ownerless property alone, rather than property falling part of a deceased's estate with no living heirs.
Hospital insurance would provide federal funds to provinces that would implement a universal hospital insurance plan.
A general devise, is a monetary gift to a specific person to be satisfied out of the overall estate.
A beach bum trust provision, in the law of trusts, ties the ability of a trust beneficiary to take from the trust to the beneficiary's own earnings.
Under most statutes, such wills can only be made during a person's "last sickness," must be witnessed by at least three persons, and reduced to writing by the witnesses within a specified amount of time after the testator's death.
Background "Beach bum trust provisions" may take a variety of forms, such as by requiring a beneficiary to attain a certain job or degree, or by using the beneficiary's own income to determine how much money they can take from the trust fund at a given time.
All non-qualified deferred-compensation plans must involve substantial risk of forfeiture or other methods of avoiding constructive receipt, such as conditioning payment upon performance of future conditions or service.
Civ.App., 76 S.W.2d 180, 183) asserts that "devisee" may refer to "those who take under will without any distinction between realty and personalty ...
6) was an act of the Parliament of England that continued the Death between Verdict and Judgment Act 1665 (17 Cha.
The agent of record is authorized to represent an insured party in purchasing, servicing, and maintaining insurance coverage with a designated insurer.
Historically, the concept of a protector developed in offshore jurisdictions where settlors were (perhaps understandably) concerned about appointing a trust company in a small, distant country as sole trustee of an offshore trust which is to hold a great deal of the settlor's wealth.
In contrast, this approach has been stridently rejected by the High Court of Australia, where the doctrinal basis of subrogation is said to lie in the prevention of unconscionable results: for example, the discharge of a debtor or one party obtaining double recovery.
The "Panic Stop" is like the ‘swoop and squat’, but the offending vehicle has passengers and gets in front of the victim's vehicle while a passenger watches and waits for the victim to be distracted, so they won't be able to react quickly enough to stop.
References Robert Frank, The Wrong Way to Leave Money to Heirs, The Wealth Report, Wall Street Journal Online, May 15, 2007.
Popular culture The BBC has made twelve series (260 programmes) of Heir Hunters, shown on UK BBC TV about a number of UK companies.
Under the Coroners Act 1988, a jury is only required to be convened in cases where the death occurred in prison, police custody, or in circumstances which may affect public health or safety.
A less well known fictive example is the humorous Testamentum Porcelli, the last testament of a pig named M.
Part 1 The Insurance Act 2015 distinguishes between "consumer" and "non-consumer" insurance contracts.
Halvard placed all the property that he wanted in the trust, including the real property into an attachment to his trust document titled "Schedule A".
In trust law the term "doctrine of merger" refers to the fusing of legal and equitable title in the event the same person becomes both the sole trustee and the sole beneficiary of a trust.
The inheritance is divided equally among their closest living relatives, according to degree of kinship.
Motor vehicle insurance In the United States, a state government, usually the Department of Motor Vehicles, assigns the risky motorists to automobile insurance companies.
An honorary trust, under the law of trusts, is a device by which a person establishes a trust for which there is neither a charitable purpose, nor a private beneficiary to enforce the trust.
For example, if a testator states in the will that he has recited to a third party the intended disposition of testamentary assets, such attempt to circumvent the requirements of a written will is void.
Often there is a cliff by which the first few steps in the graph are missing, so that there is no vesting at all for a period (usually six or twelve months in the case of employee equity), after which there is a cliff date upon which a large amount of vesting occurs all at once.
Promoters of companies sometimes aggregate their shares in a voting trust to safeguard control of the company.
Fraudulent claims can be one of may be identified as "built up", meaning that they are legitimate claims that are exaggerated in their value, or they may be false claims for damages that never occurred.
In arguing for the imposition of conditions on the release of federal aid to California wildfire victims, U.S.
In 2023, the Texas-based messaging company Text-Em-All became the first SaaS company in the US to move to an EOT.
South-Eastern Underwriters Association that the federal government could regulate insurance companies under the authority of the Commerce Clause in the U.S.
This presumption could serve as an affirmative defense in petitions to establish a resulting trust implied by operation of law.
For example, suppose Joey agrees to execute a will bequeathing his house to Rachel in exchange for services provided by Rachel.
For example, Joey leaves the contents of his bank account "to my employees." If Joey then fires some of old employees and hires new ones, the new employees will inherit the contents of the bank account under this provision.
In most jurisdictions, the law of intestacy requires that the property of a person who died without leaving a will must first go to that person's immediate family, such as a spouse, descendants, ascendants, or persons descended from the same parents or grandparents.
In the BBC drama Life on Mars, in the seventh episode of the first series, an inquest is carried out into the death of a prisoner in the police station.
The analysis is significant in that it imports the conflict of laws approach in Morguard v De Savoye into the constitutional analysis from the Churchill Falls case and other extraterritorial cases.
Definitions A specific devise, is a specific gift in a will to a specific person other than an amount of money.
In the United States, however, recent court decisions have encouraged more inventors to file patent applications on methods of doing business.
See also Insurance in India Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India == References ==
In a written agreement with Boyce, Wolder agreed to render legal services "from time to time as long as both… shall live and not to bill her for such services." In exchange, Boyce promised to make a codicil to her will giving Wolder stock or securities from her estate.
Their preliminary recommendations included increasing the category of 'natural affection' to include dependent children and parents and also cohabitees.
The court found that his thoughts about her, "did and could only proceed from, and be founded in, insanity," a "partial insanity" that only extended to his thoughts about his daughter and caused him to disinherit her.
833 (1997) is available from: Cornell CourtListener Findlaw Google Scholar Justia Library of Congress Oyez (oral argument audio) DOJ link
There is no recovery from the employee and the liability of this contribution lies solely with the employer.
The Insurance Contracts Act 1984 (ICA) applies to most insurance contracts with an Australian connection and is intended to ensure that a fair balance is struck between the interests of the insurer and the insured.
Scores of persons have deliriously found themselves made parties in Jarndyce and Jarndyce without knowing how or why; whole families have inherited legendary hatreds with the suit.
Along with an exception, it allows employers to tie premiums or co-payments to tobacco use or body mass index (BMI).
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1966, which came into force on 10 March 1966.
The majority of insurance companies will not disclose information or discuss an insured party's account with an agent other than the agent of record.
He assumed in each case that each of the names had suffered a net underwriting loss for the year of £160,000.
Although many insurers will accept such policies, they could potentially be invalidated because they have not been tested in court.
Defense counsel responded to the suit by arguing that the plaintiffs lack jurisdiction and that their requests are overbroad.
To trigger the application of the immunity, it is not enough for the provincial legislation simply to affect that which makes a federal subject or object of rights specifically of federal jurisdiction.
External links Senate Archived 2004-11-09 at the Wayback Machine and House Archived 2014-12-13 at the Wayback Machine Summary, from a Library of Congress website Blumenauer's January 2003 news release about the bill
Current situation In Italy, trusts can be used thanks to the adoption of the Hague Convention (1 July 1985), effective from 1 January 1992.
The bill was created with the intent of preserving historical information regarding slave owners and their slaves in order to provide genealogical research information for slave descendants as well as to preserve possible evidence for potential reparation claims.
It is a trust that qualifies for the marital deduction, provided that the surviving spouse is given the income at least annually and the surviving spouse has a general power of appointment over the trust property remaining at his death.
Some courts have held that a person who lacked the capacity to make a contract can nevertheless make a valid will.
Once judgment has been rendered against the defendant, there are a number of ways that the insurance company (assuming the defendant is insured) might later be made to pay the victorious plaintiff.
At last, in BCCI (Overseas) Ltd v Akindele it was held that the degree of knowledge for knowing receipt is knowledge that makes it unconscionable for recipient to retain benefit of receipt.
In 2006 he was appointed as England forwards' coach to assist then head coach Andy Robinson, alongside attack coach Brian Ashton and defence coach Mike Ford.
AMPK expression has also been shown to diminish with age, which may also contribute to suppressing mitochondrial biogenesis.
Despite clearing sixteen metres at the competition (which no athlete had done previously) he was outperformed by Poland's Józef Szmidt and settled for European silver.
To demonstrate the application of the technology, a number of healthcare exemplars have been selected.
However, a study examining high school wrestler growth patterns concluded that participation does not stunt growth.
Proctor is still the current record holder for the most tries in the Welsh league and record try scorer for Llanelli RFC.
There are both many opportunities and challenges that people with permanent disabilities experience in pursuing sport and physical activity.
Evidence While good to moderate scientific evidence exists for several of the included training principles – e.g.
For example, a force exerted upwards, like lifting an object, creates positive work done on that object.
NADH and FADH2 are recycled (to NAD+ and FAD, respectively) by oxidative phosphorylation, generating additional ATP.
There have been some anecdotal and case-study reports of bupropion abuse, but the bulk of evidence indicates that the subjective effects of bupropion when taken orally are markedly different from those of addictive stimulants such as cocaine or amphetamine.
She defended a dissertation for the Candidate of Science degree at the Lesgaft State Institute of Physical Culture in 1969 and taught at the gymnastics department of the institute until 1973.
In medicine Arteriovenous oxygen difference is also used in other areas of study such as medicine and medical research.
Fall detection Post-operative care Rehabilitation after knee-replacement surgery COPD patient monitoring Elderly care Key Partners See also Wireless sensor networks References External links Official website
It is also available over-the-counter in the form of 12.5 and 25 mg oral tablets for use as a bronchodilator and as a 0.5% concentration nasal spray for use as a decongestant.
Academics NTSU has four colleges: Notable alumni Chen Kuei-ru, athlete Transportation The university is accessible within walking distance south of National Taiwan Sport University Station of Taoyuan Metro.
Warm muscles are less susceptible to injuries because they can contract more forcefully and relax more quickly.
It may also be useful in the treatment of more severe disorders of diminished motivation, like abulia and akinetic mutism.
Each of these muscles has its own role in shoulder function and must be in balance with the others in order to avoid shoulder pathology.
The National Taiwan Sport University (NTSU; Chinese: 國立體育大學) is a public university specializing in sports in Taoyuan, Taiwan.
A 2020 Norway study found that 69% of substance use disorder patients had severe fatigue symptoms, and particularly those with extensive use of benzodiazepines.
Dextroamphetamine increases dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission in prefrontal cortex, a region of the brain that regulates cognitive control of behavior.
Since the introduction, the term has widely been used in various Danish media including Ekstra Bladet, BT, 6'eren and Kontra Magazine.
In addition to fuel the expenditure of ammunition and other consumables will reduce combat endurance, for example the limiting factors for a nuclear attack submarine are its torpedoes or for a nuclear aircraft carrier aviation fuel and aircraft munitions.
Japanese critic Hiroo Yamagata compared the book Game Nō no Kyōfu with the following movement of Messages from Water because those theories became popular via Japanese mass media without scientific backgrounds.
In the 6th century BCE, the knowledge of circulation of vital fluids through the body was known to the Ayurvedic physician Sushruta in ancient India.
In June 2012, a life-sized cast-bronze statue of Guttmann was unveiled at Stoke Mandeville Stadium as part of the run-up to the London 2012 Summer Paralympics and Olympic Games.
The concept of 'Exercise is Medicine' is that all medical specialists should be prescribing exercise regularly as an adjunct to a standard consultation.
Keylor Navas, Costa Rican professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Ligue 1 club Paris Saint-Germain.
The by-product of anaerobic glycolysis—lactate—has traditionally been thought to be detrimental to muscle function.
Following the incredible results the new Speedo LZR Racer swimsuit produced in the Beijing Olympics (Twenty-three world records were broken by the swimmers who wore LZR Racer suits, compared with only two that were broken by the swimmers who didn't.
Glutamate and GABA Glutamate, one of the most common neurochemicals in the brain, is an excitatory neurotransmitter involved in many aspects of brain function, including learning and memory.
When the external pressure rises or falls and the trapped air within the void cannot expand or contract to balance the external pressure, the pressure difference on the rigid structure of the tooth can occasionally induce stresses sufficient to fracture the tooth or dislodge a filling.
In addition, there is an optomyography (OMG) technique that uses active near-infra-red optical sensors.
Yamaguchi syndrome is an infrequent variant of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the European population.
The interaction between the neuromuscular system and the muscles is of particular importance in understanding the related physiological processes.
National Institute of Fitness and Sports in Kanoya (鹿屋体育大学, Kanoya Taiiku Daigaku) is a national university in Kanoya, Kagoshima, Japan, founded in 1981.
The partnership also involved the organization of the 2017 and 2018 editions of "The Future of Football Medicine" conferences at Camp Nou.
These conclusions became a basis of the ethnosport theory which serves design and forecasting of processes of formation and functioning of social and cultural systems in the conditions of being formed trends of ethnic cultural representation in sports (Ethnocultural diversity of sport, 2011).
Other fatigue diseases may have longer patterns of activity and remission, or no remissions at all (MS).
Sodium is mainly found in the body fluids that surround the cells and is necessary for nerves, muscles, and other body tissues to function properly.
He completed postgraduate studies from 1965 to 1968, received the degree of Candidate of Sciences in 1969, and the Doctor of Sciences (Pedagogy) in 1979.
Honours Whyte was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 2014 New Year Honours for his services to sport, sport science and charity.
Catabolism on the other hand is the opposite reaction, and breaks down molecules, which in turn releases energy.
Amino acids can also be used as a fuel source during aerobic exercise, however in moderate proportions (around 3% of the total energy expenditure during exercise).
Athletic training program in doctoral education is offered by the University of Idaho, Florida International University, A.T.
In 1984, his book Sport Science was published, where he "claim[ed] to have discovered the way to make a pure shooter by following the laws of physics" and "discuss[ed] a variety of physics concepts using sports".
Methamphetamine has high brain permeability, whereas phenylephrine and norepinephrine are peripherally selective drugs.
Upon successful transportation and distribution of oxygen in the blood, the extraction and use of the blood within skeletal muscle are what give effect to a marathoner's increased aerobic capacity and the overall improvement of an individual's marathon performance.
Graduate Schools Master's and Doctoral Degree Programs, Graduate School of Health and Sport Science Research Centers Comprehensive Sport Science Research Center The Comprehensive Sport Science Research Center publishes the open access journal, "NSSU Journal of Sport Sciences".
PlaySight was named one of Fast Company's Most Innovative Companies for consecutive years in both 2017 and 2018.
The term, used by health practitioners in New Zealand draws parallel to the usual prescriptions given to patients for medications, and emphasizes the importance of exercise in improving their condition, and not relying on drugs.
As the blood flows out, the previous built-up load is decreased and hence less force is required to expel the rest of the blood.
Pharmaceutical and cosmetic applications Lactic acid is also employed in pharmaceutical technology to produce water-soluble lactates from otherwise-insoluble active ingredients.
Long QT syndrome Long QT syndrome is a familial condition that is uncommon but is a known source of sudden death in young people.
His career was again riddled by injury and prior to the 2014 season, Mitch retired from the AFL after battling depression which had hampered him for the previous 12 months.
On May 4, Drew Sheppard announced the development of a partnership with FanGraphs.com to produce additional animations.
Allowing players to drink from their own bottle at regular intervals during games, as opposed to the nearest bottle during incidental stoppages, prevented the spread of the virus.
History The academic institution was founded in 1999 with a program for 35 athletes as part of the Johan Cruyff Academy of Amsterdam and has since then become a global network.
The ability to do work can be either positive or negative depending on the direction of exertion relative to gravity.
Rate of force development (RFD) relates to the amount of force that a person can generate over a period of time.
He founded the journal Sports Engineering, the International Sports Engineering Association and the International Conference on the Engineering of Sport.
It also includes experiences of unusually severe post-exercise pain, fatigue, nausea, vomiting or other negative effects.
Exercise Is Medicine has been criticized for making exercise come across as exclusively a medical treatment when it should be seen more broadly as a public health strategy and protective risk factor that should be available to everyone.
De-aminated alanine, cysteine, glycine, serine, and threonine are converted to pyruvate and can consequently either enter the citric acid cycle as oxaloacetate (an anaplerotic reaction) or as acetyl-CoA to be disposed of as CO2 and water.
History LSU traces its origins back to 1934 when the President of Lithuania, Antanas Smetona, established the Higher Courses of Physical Education or HCPE (Lithuanian: Aukštieji kūno kultūros kursai) offering a higher education degree.
"The effect of exercise intensity and duration on the oxygen deficit and excess post-exercise oxygen consumption".
Although the original test was not designed to be performed at high volume, the Army used the burpee to test how many times it can be performed by a soldier in 20 seconds – 8 burpees in 20 seconds is considered poor, 10 is fair, 13 or more excellent.
Kinesiologists also work as functional assessment specialists, exercise therapists, ergonomists, return to work specialists, case managers and medical legal evaluators.
External links International Spinal Cord Society (ISCoS) website Story of Paralympics founder Sir Ludwig Guttmann – BBC News (video), 24 August 2012
He studied international trade at Reutlingen University, graduating with a dissertation about publicly listed football clubs.
History Founding National Taiwan University of Sport founded in June 1961 as the Taiwan Provincial Junior College of Physical Education, was Taiwan first three-year junior college that specialized in sport.
Tennur Yerlisu Lapa (born Tennur Yerlisu; November 2, 1966) is a former World and European champion Turkish female Taekwondo practitioner.
It did not occur to him to share the story widely and only mentioned it to his roommate and parents, and a flurry of press picked it up well afterwards.
[2] Recovery One study has shown a success rate of 75 to 80 percent among patients 45 years of age or younger.
First, the absolute tensions achieved can be very high relative to the muscle's maximum tetanic tension generating capacity (you can set down a much heavier object than you can lift).
Michael Phelps speculated that the new rules banning polyurethane will level the playing field once more, stating: I will say that next year swimming will be swimming again.
It was speculated prior to these events how the altitude might affect performances of these elite, world-class athletes and most of the conclusions drawn were equivalent to those hypothesized: that endurance events would suffer and that short events would not see significant negative changes.
The advantage over other core weights is the flexibility that is freed up by not constraining the upper body, the disadvantage being limited core flexion.
In the 1980s, Richard Simmons hosted an aerobic exercise show on television, and followed Jane Fonda's lead by releasing a series of exercise videos.
Applications Indirect calorimetry provides at least two pieces of information: a measure of energy expenditure or 24-hour caloric requirements as reflected by the Resting Energy Expenditure (REE) and a measure of substrate utilization as reflected in the Respiratory Quotient (RQ).
His research topics are related to physiological aspects in team and racket sports, performance testing training prescription and sports nutrition for different age groups on recreational and competitive level.
In 2008, Health Canada issued a warning that 4-AT had a health risk related to blood clotting and recommended all users immediately cease use.
An injured athlete could also have Chronic traumatic encephalopathy, which includes too much trauma to the head from practice and games.
The prognosis for anorexia nervosa is grave with a six-fold increase in standard mortality rates compared to the general population.
(1981) in Physical Education and Sport Science from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, and an MSc (1987) and PhD (1991) in Exercise Physiology from the University of Montréal, Québec, Canada.
Thus, the cause of the phenomenon began at that time to be addressed by the investigation of insanity.
It is an important component of overall fitness and has been linked to numerous health benefits, including a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, improved cognitive function, and increased longevity.
Hume's biomechanics mentors have been Professor Barry Wilson (Otago), Professor James Hay (USA) and Professor Benno Nigg (Canada), with career mentors AUT Vice Chancellor Derek McCormack (NZ), and merchant banker Lex Henry (NZ).
And although many claim that natural caffeine is absorbed slower and therefore leads to a gentler caffeine crash, there is little scientific evidence supporting the notion.
Di Salvo returned to Real Madrid in 2007 where he was appointed as director of Real Madrid TEC – the football high performance centre which he created and developed.
He noticed that those who participated in competitive sports displayed symptoms of athlete's heart syndrome.
Ainsworth, Barbara E.; Haskell, William L.; Whitt, Melicia C.; Irwin, Melinda L.; Swartz, Ann M.; Strath, Scott J.; O'Brien, William L.; Bassett, David R.; Schmitz, Kathryn H.; Emplaincourt, Patricia O.; Jacobs, David R.; Leon, Arthur S.
The findings suggest that carbohydrate mouth rinsing can be an effective strategy to enhance performance during cycling, especially in high-intensity training sessions with low carbohydrate intake.
A 2-day CPET is a cardiopulmonary exercise test given on two successive days to measure the effect of post-exertional malaise (PEM) on a patient's ability to exercise.
In combination with normethadone, it was marketed as a cough suppressant under the trade name Ticarda.
"Fasting Ghrelin Levels in Physically Active Women: Relationship with Menstrual Disturbances and Metabolic Hormones".
History The Connected Scarf is a collaboration between English Premier League side Manchester City and American technology conglomerate Cisco.
Entertainers Sonny Chiba - Actor; Martial artist Keita Machida - Actor Mandy Sekiguchi - Dancer Current notable students Athletes Uta Abe - Active Judoka; 2020 Olympic gold medalist and four-times world champion of -52 kg category.
Training of IC is recommended for athletes heading towards increasing maximum available power without growth of muscular mass.
In 1917, while volunteering at an accident hospital in Königshütte, he encountered his first paraplegic patient, a coal miner with a spinal fracture who later died of sepsis.
At a young age, he demonstrated a keen interest in sports, particularly football, alongside his religious studies in Qur'anic recitation.
Scientist After his studies in the fields of German language and literature, history, and physical education in Munich, Hermann Rieder was active as an assistant professor at the University of Würzburg.
Another set of researchers claim that altitude training stimulates a more efficient use of oxygen by the muscles.
Automatic Production PlaySight provides each of its clients with automatic production capabilities: automated live streaming and production tools, scoreboard integration and graphic overlays, as well as full tracking of games without the need for a cameraman or operator.
The effect is not visible during the classic biceps curl, which is in fact auxotonic because the resistance (torque due to the weight being lifted) does not remain the same through the exercise.
Awards and honours In 2014 the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council recognised him as a RISE Leader ("Recognising Inspirational Scientists and Engineers").
The other three regional associations coordinating university-level sports in Canada are Ontario University Athletics (OUA), the Canada West Universities Athletic Association (CW), and the Réseau du sport étudiant du Québec (RSEQ).
One hour On June 25, 2021, in Singapore, Cassiano Rodrigues Laureano achieved a record 951 chest-to-ground burpees in one hour.
As the concentrations of these molecules deviate from values at equilibrium, the value of Gibbs free energy change (ΔG) will be increasingly different.
Some sports are based almost exclusively on the ability to jump, such as high jump in track and field, whereas in other sports the act of jumping is one of multiple athletic abilities used in the sport, such as basketball.
Merging failed In 1998, National Taiwan College of Physical Education is blazing a new campus in Puzi, Chiayi County, and place their library in Chiayi County Stadium before completion of their teaching complex building.
While the terms tanking and rebuilding are sometimes used interchangeably, there are differences between the two concepts.
Regulation In oxidative phosphorylation, the key control point is the reaction catalyzed by cytochrome c oxidase, which is regulated by the availability of its substrate – the reduced form of cytochrome c.
It has been shown, however, that these changes develop independently in time from one another and that the soreness is therefore not the cause of the reduction in muscle function.
His doctoral research examined exercise training and antioxidant supplementation in relation to oxidative stress and cardiac function.
As a consequence of the actions of the many National Federations, the National Sports Council was formed in 1994 and was immediately accepted as a full member of the newly formed body.
Art Therapy There is also the option of art therapy, this was created by a man called Adrian Hill, in 1942 and is one of the earliest forms of treatment.
It is headquartered in Žaliakalnis neighbourhood, in close proximity to the Kaunas Sports Hall and the S.
The intramuscular coordination defines the number of muscular fibres that can be controlled synchronously by the nervous system within a certain muscle.
The Sport Sciences Research Institute of Iran (SSRI) is the only national organization in charge of scientific research in the field of Physical Education and Sport Sciences.
Hill returned briefly to Cambridge in 1919 before taking the chair in physiology at the Victoria University of Manchester in 1920 in succession to William Stirling.
Another review indicated that, based upon the longest follow-up studies conducted to date, lifetime stimulant therapy that begins during childhood is continuously effective for controlling ADHD symptoms and reduces the risk of developing a substance use disorder as an adult.
Because PEM is also a symptom of long COVID, the 2-day CPET may be useful in evaluating exercise intolerance there as well.
He was Director of Research and Statistics for the Baltimore Orioles from 1988 to 1994 and Director of Baseball Operations for the San Diego Padres from 1995 to 1999.
With the fiber-glass pole, the vaulter does less work at the start but must do much more at the end.
Some researchers have argued that prospective longitudinal studies, following subjects over time, are needed to completely understand the causes and progression of CTE.
Muscle secretion of a hormone that activates adipose thermogenesis during this process might provide a broader, more robust defense against hypothermia.
For example, an ability to achieve a higher RFD will mean a person can jump higher than they would be able to do otherwise.
Technology, therefore, dominates this field and one specific aspect that demonstrates this involves the technologies that enhance fuel efficiency.
References External links Information on microvessel studies (wire myograph) Various types of blood vessel myographs Blood vessel myographs
The study found that heart rates rose from 133 to 146 beats per minute and power output increased accordingly, when listening to the tempo-less sound of crashing waves versus music with a medium to fast tempo.
Blocking aromatase causes the body to decrease in levels of estradiol, which then results in increase of LH and consequently, testosterone.
He was retrospectively capped for England for a game against Italy in Rovigo in 1990, at the time this was considered uncapped.
The most common individuals who experience PTSD are those among war, but it is not only veterans who experience this disorder.
There is noticeably lower shooting numbers in domed stadiums, usually football stadiums temporarily converted to a basketball arena, compared to typical basketball arenas.
Chronic aerobic exercise improves cardiovascular function through adaptations like increased left and right ventricular function, raising cardiac output and maximum oxygen consumption.
She started working with Paralympic athletes in 1994, and attended the 1996 Summer Paralympics, 2000 Summer Paralympics and the 2012 Summer Paralympics.
In the 2025 King’s Birthday Honours, Hume was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to sports science and injury prevention.
Certain analgesics also work to decrease the source of the pain by working to decrease swelling and inflammation, as in the case of NSAIDs.
In 1994, Yerlisu began her doctoral thesis on sports organization and management at Gazi University, receiving a PhD title in 1999.
It is more hydrophilic than ephedrine, which has an experimental log P of 1.13 and a predicted log P of 0.9 to 1.32.
See also Exercise prescription software Exercise medicine Exercise physiology Kinesiology Sports medicine Exercise is Medicine == References ==
The system is designed to centralize and synchronize player performance information, allowing continuous monitoring and supporting evidence-based decision-making in Qatari football.
These setbacks and the arrival of Alan Cork as manager, saw Thompson being loaned out to League Two Shrewsbury Town in January 2002.
In November 2011, MOE approved school change its name to National Taiwan University of Physical Education (NTUPE), and keep Chinese abbreviation of the National Taiwan Sports University (Chinese: 臺體、臺灣體大).
On May 11, 2024, a new record of 8,523 burpees in 12 hours was set in Narbonne, France, by Joseph Salas.
Other uses Noakes, St Clair Gibson and Lambert created the idea of the central governor in the context of prolonged endurance exercise.
"Changing policy priorities for sport in England: the emergence of elite sport development as a key policy concern".
International Olympic Committee (IOC) adoption In October 2019, the IOC hosted a 3-day consensus meeting in Lausanne, Switzerland to provide a standard method to report injuries and illnesses in sport.
In summary, despite being a popular theory, the bulk of evidence suggest that subacromial impingement probably does not play a dominant role in many cases of rotator cuff disease.
Production Anabolic steroids are produced in pharmaceutical laboratories, but in nations where stricter laws are present, they are also produced in small homemade laboratories.
Finally, even with AEDs and staff present, because of the rarity of cardiac arrest in the community especially in young people, event staff may not be well or recently trained to respond, or may not be concentrating at the time of an arrest.
This relationship is defined by the equation ΔrGo = -RT ln(K), where K is the equilibrium constant, which is equal to the reaction quotient Q in equilibrium.
It can cause cardiac arrest during athletic activity but also when doing other activities that raise heart rate.
This can cause a massive discharge of histamine, resulting in low blood pressure, fainting, shock and even loss of life.
Improving combat endurance The improvements of combat endurance are largely concerned with better efficiency to the current platforms and they aim to bridge the gap between the resources available today and the future.
The work of his former assistant Rob Neyer, who later became a senior writer at ESPN.com and national baseball editor of SBNation, also contributed to popularizing sabermetrics since the mid-1980s.
Power amplification through stored energy Grasshoppers use elastic energy storage to increase jumping distance.
Ho Chi Minh University Of Sport (Vietnamese language: Đại học Thể dục Thể thao Thành Phố Hồ Chí Minh) is a university in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
Opportunities for graduates in these fields include employment as a Physical Education teacher, Dietician or Nutritionist, Performance Analyst, Sports coach, Sports therapist, Fitness center manager, Sports administrator, Strength and Conditioning specialist, or retail manager of a sports store.
On October 19, 2004, the Computer Entertainment Supplier's Association announced that the neuroscientific works of Mori and Ryuta Kawashima about video games had insufficient evidence to claim something.
Bill Haskell from Stanford University conceptualized the compendium and developed a prototype for the document.
Two leads are then inserted; one into the right atrium and the other into the right ventricular apex via the subclavian veins.
See also List of Republic of Ireland international footballers born outside the Republic of Ireland References External links Jon Goodman at Soccerbase
The evening classes for working students were phased out by the 2000s in favor of other options, such as online learning, short certificate courses and part-time studies.
In the U.S., anabolic steroids are listed as Schedule III controlled substances under the Controlled Substances Act, which makes the possession of such substances without a prescription a federal crime punishable by up to seven years in prison.
Wayne Thomas Proctor (12 June 1972) is a former Wales international rugby union footballer, who was a winger/full-back for Wales, Llanelli RFC and subsequently the Llanelli Scarlets.
Her academic interest is all about recreation, on which subject she has publications at national and international level.
It consists of doing a forward flexion of the trunk with the feet hip-width apart, the knees extended and the hands straight, trying to touch the tips of the feet.
The spatial and temporal summation of ~30,000 Ca2+ sparks gives a cell-wide increase in cytoplasmic calcium concentration.
Profound and debilitating fatigue is the most common complaint reported among individuals with autoimmune disease, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, celiac disease, Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome, and rheumatoid arthritis.
He was Scientific Consultant for the German Tennis Federation and holds an A-level Coaching license.
Greg Whyte, OBE (born 21 June 1967), also known as Super-Greg, is a former Olympian and a Sports Scientist.
Aitana Bonmatí Conca, Spanish professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Liga F club, FC Barcelona Femení and the Spanish national team.
Chemically, bupropion is an aminoketone that belongs to the class of substituted cathinones and more generally that of substituted amphetamines and substituted phenethylamines.
Structure Confederation of African Esports, like other sports confederations, is constituted as a voluntary association.
It is a commonly held belief among wrestlers, however, that these ointments do not treat symptoms Sometimes wrestlers who don't want to report an infection to their coach will resort to unusual and unhealthy treatments.
However, higher doses for longer periods of time are being studied to offset creatine synthesis deficiencies and mitigating diseases.
The design of the suit covers basically the whole torso and the legs with the impermeable polyurethane, thereby exposing less skin to the water and improving the swimmer's buoyancy and streamlined shape.
Hawthorn denied any such events occurred and the matter was not taken any further by the AFL or the Geelong Football Club.
They found no difference in leg swing times at different speeds, and recorded leg swing times similar to that of non-disabled sprinters.
Chemical production Racemic lactic acid is synthesized industrially by reacting acetaldehyde with hydrogen cyanide and hydrolysing the resultant lactonitrile.
For instance, playmakers and coaches use it in organizing the game by distributing more balls to players who are on a winning streak, or to organize a better defense against those players.
4-Hydroxytestosterone (4-OHT), also known as 4,17β-dihydroxyandrost-4-en-3-one, is a synthetic anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) and a derivative of testosterone that was never marketed.
In addition, DHT is inactivated by high activity of 3α-HSD in skeletal muscle (and cardiac tissue), and AAS that lack affinity for 3α-HSD could similarly be expected to have a higher myotrophic–androgenic ratio (although perhaps also increased long-term cardiovascular risks).
History NTSU was originally established as National College of Physical Education and Sports on 1 July 1987.
The university provides education in sports and gymnastics from undergraduate to graduate and postgraduate.
Duration of the effect The EPOC effect is greatest soon after the exercise is completed and decays to a lower level over time.
It is used by pharmacologists to measure the effect of test articles on blood pressure or on airway contractility.
Suicide As mentioned previously, psychological distress as a result from a sports related injury has been shown to increase the risk of suicide among athletes.
In 1960 the university was among the first batch of key national universities designated by the State Council.
Cytokines Cytokines can manipulate neurotransmissions creating sickness behavior, characterized by malaise and fatigue.
GrassMaster is a hybrid grass sports playing field surface composed of natural grass combined with artificial fibres.
Masters competition Pataki won world championships and set several records as a masters athletics (track and field) competitor in shot put, discus, and weight pentathlon.
Raja Sports School is a State sports school in Aruvikkara, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, focused on developing young athletes in various sports.
Dermatographism is the most common form of a subset of chronic hives, acknowledged as "physical hives".
Other regions of the brain that demonstrate moderate or less significant gains in gray matter volume during neuroimaging include the anterior cingulate cortex, parietal cortex, cerebellum, and nucleus accumbens.
The government also requires that all students in grades 1 through 8, including those with special needs, be provided with opportunities to participate in a minimum of twenty minutes of sustained, moderate to vigorous physical activity each school day during instructional time.
SportVU provides statistics such as real-time player and ball positioning through software and statistical algorithms.
A review in 2015 came to the conclusion that SIS is highly sensitive in the detection of intrauterine abnormalities in subfertile women, comparable to hysteroscopy.
XX male syndrome is another cause of sterility, wherein the sexual determining factor on the Y chromosome (SRY) is transferred to the X chromosome due to an unequal crossing over.
Non-additive genetic effects have been thought of to be the main reason for reproductive isolation between species.
Professor Carlos Sueldo is the recipient of numerous scientific awards and distinctions from around the world, and has also authored numerous articles in peer-reviewed reproductive medicine journals.
A physical examination will also take place to identify abnormalities such as hirsutism, abdominal masses, infection, cysts or fibroids.
The follicular fluid is delivered to a technician in the IVF laboratory to identify and quantify the ova.
Embryo transfer: the strongest and genetically correct embryos are selected and the decided number will be transferred to the gestational carrier.
In December 1986, Francine Todd informed Edward Straub of her desire to have a child without getting married.
Detailed characterisation of the events occurring in sperm in response to steroid hormones, including the discovery of slow calcium oscillations, now thought to possibly regulate motility.
His career as a research scientist and teacher continued at the National University of Singapore despite his official retirement in 1998, as Emeritus Professor of Gynaecology and Obstetrics.
Her performance earns a special kind of glory." Roger Ebert, writing for his RogerEbert.com website, gave it 3.5 out of 4 stars and commented, "Harris' performance illuminates Natural Selection.
Childless couples were more likely to take vacations, exercise, and overall live a healthier life style than those that have children.
The hospital is interconnected to the Sentara Heart Hospital; however, it is considered a separate institution.
After the additional eggs were fertilized successfully, Rock and Menkin elected to publish their work in a brief report.
Clinical sterility is natural sterility for which treatment of the patient will not result in conception.
Not all women can conceive naturally, leaving them with a need for technologies and research that can help them have children.
The electric current stimulates nearby nerves, resulting in contraction of the pelvic muscles and ejaculation.
Avoiding OHSS typically requires interrupting the pathological sequence, such as avoiding the use of hCG.
In ovulation induction, using clomifene for intended conception by sexual intercourse, however, triggering oocyte release has been shown to decrease pregnancy chances compared to frequent monitoring with LH surge tests.
At the time of Graham's death, the bank claimed to have produced 217 children, none of whom from sperm donated from Graham's initial focus, Nobel Prize winners.
Although the name Gylou is not found on any surviving amulets, Michael is the adversary Gylou encounters most often in medieval Byzantine texts.
In January 1996, Asch testified at a deposition in Tijuana that university employees were responsible for errors that had occurred such as mismatching patients and failing to obtain patient consents.
These steroids can help build larger muscles, but can also lead to side effects such as smaller testicles, erectile dysfunction, and lower sperm count.
The film's initial budget was $2 million, but was reduced to $150,000 due to difficulty in securing funding.
There is evidence suggesting a significant association between vitamin D serum concentrations and the quality of sperm in men, characterized by the sperm's motility and progress motility.
Additional cryoprotectants can be used to increase sperm viability and fertility rates post-freezing.
One of the most prevalent manifestations of this phenomenon is the use of anabolic steroids by some men (particularly if they go to the gym).
This difference may be due to the anti-estrogenic effect which clomifene citrate has on the endometrium, cervical mucus, uterine blood flow, as well as the resulting decrease in the motility of the fallopian tubes and the maturation of the oocytes.
This process includes one to several weeks of hormone injections that stimulate ovaries to ripen multiple eggs.
These embryos are typically destroyed before they divide into two cells; were they left alone to divide, they would still be unviable.
In 1949, Jones made the first description of Luteal Phase Dysfunction, and is credited to be the first in using progesterone to treat women with a history of miscarriages, thus allowing many of them to not only conceive, but to deliver healthy babies.
This practice can be disadvantageous in several ways: It is very costly, can become complicated and may also predispose to several undesirable side effects, such as ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS).
In an extended profile piece in The Atlantic, reporter Sarah Zhang wrote: The donor children have begun cataloging the ways their own paths have crossed, too.
Culture of the whole ovary or ovarian fragments allows evaluation of various parameters in a controlled way and, therefore, has the potential for more complete reproductive toxicity studies.
A 2008 study concluded that diminished reserve did not affect the quality of oocytes and any reduction in quality in diminished reserve women was age related.
Present at the world's first in vitro fertilisation (IVF) birth, Louise Brown, Webster has continued to develop and further research in the field of IVF.
Consultancy work with the UK division of Ares Serono (1986–1994) also involved work with the Bourn Hallam Group, which Patrick Steptoe and Bob Edwards had set up after Louise Brown's birth.
Sterility is rarely discussed in clinical literature and is often used synonymously with infertility.
The patient then undergoes a typical IVF cycle and is given medication to stimulate egg growth in her ovaries.
Multinucleation: multinucleated blastomeres on day 2 and day 3 is associated to a lower implantation rate.
Chemistry Trengestone, also known as 1,6-didehydro-6-chlororetroprogesterone or as 6-chloro-9β,10α-pregna-1,4,6-triene-3,20-dione, is a synthetic pregnane steroid and a derivative of progesterone and retroprogesterone.
The success rate for is lower than most women expect, requiring, on average, about 10 frozen eggs to be used for each live birth.
Additionally, because this procedure requires a two-week period of hormonal stimulation to encourage egg maturation, it is not optimal for female patients who are diagnosed with hormone-sensitive cancers (such as breast cancer, ovarian cancer, etc.) or those who cannot delay cancer treatment.
The potential candidate Coculture can be an effective treatment for patients who have failed previous IVF cycles or who have poor embryo quality.
The incision is closed with sutures and each sample is assessed under a microscope to confirm the presence of sperm.
Ukraine Ukraine has seen a significant increase in international surrogacy since 2015, when the practice was banned in several Asian countries that had been popular destinations.
The sample obtained after washing is analysed, usually using the PCR technique, to check that there is no viral particle.
Disease affects a much smaller proportion of the population – around one in 5000 individuals, 0.02% – because cells contain many mitochondria and only some carry mutations.
There is no suppression of the ovaries and associated menopausal symptoms and the treatment cycle is completed within a woman's own menstrual cycle.
As of May 2022, Cline has paid over $1.35 million to settle three lawsuits, with three more pending.
Gennadij Raivich is a professor of perinatal neuroscience, specialising in maternal and fetal medicine.
His license has since been revoked and a $5.25 million judgment in damages was awarded to the first plaintiff.
The CIAQ provides cattle farmers with bulls from the Ayrshire, Canadienne, Holstein, Jersey and Brown Swiss milk producing breeds along with other beef breeds.
Humphrey, Susan Gumley, Carl Wood, 1989, ISBN 0-14-012195-1 Clinical in Vitro Fertilization, by Carl Wood (Author), Alan O.
On one breast cancer forum, where the majority of users are women aged 40 to 60, a statistical analysis of posts shows that typing out "husband" is associated with short-time members, while "my DD" (rather than "daughter") is associated with long-time members.
An Oocyte is an egg/ovum that is not fully mature or developed and has not been fertilized; Therefore an oocyte is an undeveloped ovum.
It is usually an exercise in excluding all possible causes before making a diagnosis, however the age of the female partner as well as the duration of infertility are often the most scrutinized characteristics of any infertility case.
Some scientists have questioned the extent of the crisis; the scientific community, however, generally acknowledges increasing male infertility as a men's-health issue.
There is not enough evidence to say that ICSI procedures are safe in females with hepatitis B in regard to vertical transmission to the offspring, since the puncture of the oocyte can potentially avail for vertical transmission to the offspring.
Judgment High Court Lawyers for the two women submitted to the High Court of Justice in September 2002 that, as treatment was already under way, the men should not have the right to stop it.
Cast Production Natural Selection was inspired by Pickering's attempt to depict a woman like his mother and her experience with loneliness, developed while his stepfather was terminally ill with cancer.
POI Primary Ovarian Insufficiency is defined as when ovarian function is stopped prematurely (before the age of 40).
It was there that Wiesner built upon the work of Zondek and Aschheim by examining the production and role of hormones during fertilisation and pregnancy.
When Kavita asks Nandita who it was, Nandita lies and says there was no one on the other end, and it was a blank call.
This extraction must occur before ovulation, as oocytes are too small to be identified once they leave the follicle, and if the appropriate time window is missed the donation cycle will need to be repeated.
The DNA from the ovule and pollen combine to form a diploid, single-cell zygote that will develop into an embryo.
Likewise, NGS is used to detect aneuploidies in the 24 chromosomes and single-gene defects when there is an indication from the carrier parents.
As of 2019, the Prelude Fertility Network of clinics included 23 fertility practices and 36 locations in the U.S.
The use of GnRH agonists for ovarian protection during chemotherapy is suggested to benefit the ability to ovulate, but benefits in terms of e.g.
On January 7, 1991, Todd sued to have Straub be listed as B.M.T.'s father and to force Straub to pay child support for B.M.T.
Matches can occur between half siblings (light yellow), sperm donors and their offspring (dark yellow), or egg donors and their offspring (also dark yellow).
Nandita, who has always regretted giving Neha up, promises to leave the couple alone on one condition – that she take Neha with her.
Her world is turned upside-down when she discovers that her dying husband, Abe, has a 23-year-old son through a sperm bank named Raymond living in Florida.
The procedure took place at Dr Kershaw's Cottage Hospital (now Dr Kershaw's Hospice) in Royton, Oldham, England.
The major parts of the oocyte that are accessed for quality in terms of morphological characteristics are the cumulus cells, zona pellucida, polar body, perivitelline space, and cytoplasm; These are the main parts of the oocyte and are usually assessed by conventional microscopy.
He is a member of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE), and is also a member of the board of Ukrainian Association of Reproductive Medicine.
Success rate According to a Belgian researcher interviewed by Le Vif, the failure rate is the main reason for opposition to cloning, for bioethical reasons due to the mortality of embryos, fetuses and newborn foals.
Their position as a middleman is what makes anonymous sperm donation possible, though many clinics and sperm banks also offer non-anonymous donors, where donor-conceived people may get the identities of their donors.
Ms Evans still had the right to file a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg.
International registration standards Some countries have established laws concerning the registration of donors, others permit states to regulate this or have no regulation.
Occasionally two follicles reach the 10 mm stage at the same time by chance and as both are equally sensitive to FSH both survive and grow in the low FSH environment and thus two ovulations can occur in one cycle possibly leading to non-identical (dizygotic) twins.
The few studies relating male nutrient or food intake and fecundability also suggest that diets rich in red meat, processed meat, tea and caffeine are associated with a lower rate of fecundability.
Changes such as these have significant consequences in regard to pregnancy outcomes; studies suggest cancer patients receiving radiation have a higher chance of experiencing miscarriages or having low birth weight, premature children.
Such antibody-positive individuals may potentially shed virus that remain latent in the body in the semen, infecting the mother and, in turn, the embryo/fetus.
Indeed, it is considered impossible to cease reproduction based on social factors, and fecundity tends to rise after a brief decline.
After PGF2α breaks down the CL, progesterone (a hormone used to maintain pregnancy) starts to drop which allows the cow to start another heat cycle and be ready to breed.
This idea suggests that shorter breeding seasons select a larger clutch size to compensate for the reduced reproduction frequency, thus increasing those species' fecundity.
The central conflict is built on several dichotomies: between the Apollonian and Dionysian, the technocratic Northern Europe and underdeveloped Mediterranean region, and the rationalist idealism of Postchristianity and materialist philosophy of ancient Greece.
Hormonal effects Part of the criteria of PCOS diagnosis includes elevated levels of androgens in the bloodstream or other signs of androgen excess (hyperandrogenism).
It involves combining a woman’s eggs and a man’s sperm in a laboratory to create embryos outside the body.
It appears that reduction of triplets, where each triplet is in its own placenta, to twins results in a lower risk of preterm birth and does not increase the risk of miscarriage.
Other donors were recruited from among the ranks of scientists and academics Graham and his assistant, Paul Smith, considered to be "the future Nobel laureates".
The spermatozoon is selected at higher magnification; the aim of this is to improve the chance of pregnancy.
Vicky eventually reconciles with his wife, after Aanjaneyulu helps her understand the true benefits of sperm donation.
Cross-checking the cervical mucus with another donor semen will confirm whether antibodies are cervical or seminal.
He advocates mandatory artificial insemination in order to improve humanity and make it worthy of modern science.
Przewalski's horse clone In 2020, the first cloned Przewalski's horse was born, the result of a collaboration between San Diego Zoo Global, ViaGen Equine and Revive & Restore.
While some couples base their decision on medical reasons, personal reasons may also be a fundamental deciding factor.
In vitro fertilization can be a series of treatments that involves the fertilization of a mature egg with a sperm in a laboratory.
These are in alliance with the West Midlands Regional Genetics Service, which is also based at the hospital.
The result is a reduction in the number of fetuses to a number that is more safe for the mother and the remaining fetuses or more compatible with socio-economic constraints on the caregivers.
To obtain the sample, a sterile plastic recipient is put directly inside, always no more than one hour before being studied.
They argue that although Gupta's phylogenetic methods were likely solid, the proposed name changes are too sweeping to be practically adopted, citing some principles of the Code such as "name stability".
The Institute's American activities involve a large donor egg program, a group of sperm banks and egg banks, preimplantation genetics testing centers, and oocyte cryopreservation via vitrification in addition to more conventional IVF, infertility, and genetic services.
During that same year the company acquired EnsEyers, a supplier of orthokeratology and scleral contact lenses.
Published data show that injury to major blood vessels is practically impossible and there are very few other minor complications when performed in the right manner.
Single or sequential medium are equally effective for the culture of human embryos to the blastocyst stage.
The proposed complaint cites negligence, constructive fraud, battery, breach of contract, breach of express warranty, and negligent hiring or retention as to defendant and reproductive endocrinology associates.
His performers are competent - Chaudhary, big on lipstick and histrionics is as excellent as Kajol - but his writing is flawed.
On the other hand, the exact thawing temperature seems to have only minor effect on sperm viability, acrosomal status, ATP content, and DNA.
The procedure results in a decrease in plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) and in pulsations as well as a periodic drop in inhibin B levels.
A total of 78 species were removed from Mycoplasma, creating five new genera and a number of higher taxonomic levels.
Same-sex procreation would remove the need for lesbian and gay couples to rely on a third party donation of a sperm or an egg for reproduction.
However, there is no clear tendency in recent publications to a general increase in predictive value of morphological features.
The collection and freezing of these samples allows for the distribution of gametes among populations.
Thus a child can have a genetic and social (non-genetic, non-biological) father, and a genetic, gestational, and social (non-biological) mother, and any combinations thereof.
Effects in males FSH stimulates primary spermatocytes to undergo the first division of meiosis, to form secondary spermatocytes.
Advantages A study of 12,377 embryo cultures showed that endometrial coculture is significantly better than sequential culture media; the rates (fraction) reaching blastocyst stage were 56% versus 46% in the coculture versus the sequential system, respectively, with own oocytes.
Time-lapse embryo imaging is an emerging non-invasive embryo selection technique used in reproductive biology.
Techniques Culture of embryos can either be performed in an artificial culture medium or in an autologous endometrial coculture (on top of a layer of cells from the woman's own uterine lining).
Dr Leeanda Wilton, Melbourne IVF, is an international leader in the field of pre-implantation genetic testing A/Prof Kate Stern, Melbourne IVF, lead the team that achieved the world’s first pregnancy from ovarian tissue grafted in the anterior abdominal wall of a woman.
In contrast, anovulation usually manifests itself as irregularity of menstrual periods, that is, unpredictable variability of intervals, duration, or bleeding.
There has been, however, an increasing number of cases in Israel in which women who had not been in a relationship with the deceased, volunteered and were allowed to carry their child, often following a public call-up by the deceased's parents.
In 1953, while working as a research associate in the university's Department of Urology, Sherman refined a process that had been developed in 1949 by A.S.
For those at the ministry of agriculture, the then new technique of artificial insemination appeared to be an economical and quick method to improve the province's herds, lower production costs and increase revenues.
He was well aware that injected hCG could trigger a false positive on a pregnancy test, but thought that the dosages he administered were too low to have that effect.
Fertiloscopy, a relatively new surgical technique used for early diagnosis (and immediate treatment).
Potential damage to otherwise viable embryos is also reduced due to minimized fluctuation of optimal culture conditions .
One way it has done this is through engagement with programmes on local and national media for example a recent programme on BBC Asian Network.
From 2011 to 2013, Martins da Silva was a Scottish Clinical Research Excellence Development Scheme (SCREDS) Clinical Lecturer in reproductive medicine at the University of Dundee School of Medicine.
See also Sperm bank Gene bank Artificial insemination Genetic counseling Genetic testing New eugenics Safe upper age limit for women donating ova Eugenics Infertility Surrogacy Commercial surrogacy Assisted reproduction Designer babies == References ==
Watrelot also recommends the use of a special type of scope with a 30-degree chamfered end which makes it possible to examine the inside of the fallopian tubes and visualise the depths of the folds under 100 fold magnification, so that mucosal damage can be assessed.
However, he was cleared of a further eight counts of sexual assault and sexual assault by digital penetration because the jury was unable to reach a verdict.
At the 27th Independent Spirit Awards, it earned two nominations: Best First Feature and Best Female Lead (for Harris).
The chart should show low temperatures before ovulation in the follicular phase, and higher ones after ovulation in the luteal phase.
This avails for sexual intercourse or intrauterine insemination (IUI) to conveniently be scheduled at ovulation, the most likely time to achieve pregnancy.
These surgical techniques may also be utilized as a form of permanent contraception referred to as sterilization.
"Inhibition of Posttraumatic Microglial Proliferation in a Genetic Model of Macrophage Colony‐Stimulating Factor Deficiency in the Mouse." European Journal of Neuroscience 6.10 (1994): 1615–1618.
In addition, whereas other progestogens are antigonadotropic and inhibit ovulation, dydrogesterone is neither antigonadotropic nor progonadotropic and does not affect ovulation, and trengestone appears to be progonadotropic and can be used to induce ovulation.
As part of the pharmacologic treatment of paraphilic disorders in sexual offenders or men with a high risk of sexual offending.
A former psychotherapist, in 2009, at the age of 44, she realized that she would never be a mother and set up a network of childless women aged 35 and over, named Gateway Women.
The release of details about the pregnancy and birth was criticised when different information was reported by different news companies.
In 2010, two former patients of Barwin brought lawsuits against him alleging that he had inseminated them with the wrong sperm.
Trengestone is a progestin, or a synthetic progestogen, and hence is an agonist of the progesterone receptor, the biological target of progestogens like progesterone.
He was born in New Zealand and is a qualified doctor in Germany; although he has taught in the UK he has never practised there.
On the issue of firearms, Simone Collins has described herself as "very pro-gun." Personal lives Malcolm is the great-grandson of Carr Collins Sr., founder of the Fidelity Union Life Insurance Company, and grandson of James M.
Blocked fallopian tubes can be a factor of infertility in which the fallopian tubes will not allow the egg and sperm to meet.
Diagnosis If both partners are young and healthy and have been trying to conceive for one year without success, a visit to a physician or women's health nurse practitioner (WHNP) could help to highlight potential medical problems earlier rather than later.
Sentara Norfolk General Hospital (SNGH) is a large academic hospital, which serves as the primary teaching institution for the adjacent Eastern Virginia Medical School.
Deer mouse embryos survive in the uterus of the white-footed mouse, but the reciprocal transfer fails.
Among these tests, blood tests are common and may include serologies to detect infections such as hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV), HIV, syphilis, and rubella.
There was insufficient evidence to support routine cryopreservation and insufficient evidence for the relative merits of intravenous albumin versus cryopreservation.
Reception Critical reception Deccan Chronicle gave 2 out of 5 stars stating "Naruda Donaruda is a fresh subject which could have been made much better.
Also in Spain it is necessary to have a signed consent from the deceased person and the wife can only use the sample in a period of 12 months.
In vanishing twin pregnancies with a second gestational sac with a dead fetus, first trimester screening should be based solely on the maternal age and the nuchal translucency scan as biomarkers are significantly altered in these cases.
Due to changes in technology and the introduction of the commercially available home DNA tests, the ability of Donor Sibling Registry to be an effective use of resources may be outdated.
One benefit of this procedure is that no incisions are required and it can be completed in a clinic office.
In fiction Medical dramas set in a fertility clinic include Inconceivable, which ran for two episodes in 2005 before being cancelled, and The Family Man, a British series in three parts.
They were helped by the Institute of Life in Athens, Greece and had obtained approval from the Greek National Authority of Assisted Reproduction.
Although not ideal for people who are able to and wanting to bear children, RFA still poses as an alternative successful technique to reducing the volume of fibroids.
Achievements Main achievements of the institute in the area of research have influenced and significantly improved the reproductively of cattle, buffalo and sheep through: Improving reproductive potentials of farm animals.
Also, ethical issues of human enhancement arise when reproductive technology has evolved to be a potential technology for not only reproductively inhibited people but even for otherwise re-productively healthy people.
Four healthy Bactrian camels were born without any complications out of the ten transferred embryos.
This showed it was possible to mix a sperm and an egg outside a female reproductive system and create a healthy embryo.
Spiritual recourse (prayer for fecundity, or alternately, submission to the will of a deity or power) Realignment of social relationships, including divorce, polygamy, adultery, or promiscuity.
Indications ZIFT has been used in infertility situations where at least one of the fallopian tubes is normal and other treatments have failed; however, the need for two interventions and the fact that IVF results are equal or better (as of 2004), leaves few indications for this procedure.
The most common cause of female infertility is abnormal ovulation, usually manifested by scanty or absent menstrual periods.
Bioethical issues Gamete intrafallopian transfer is not technically in vitro fertilisation because with GIFT, fertilisation takes place inside the body, not on a petri dish.
For example, intrauterine pathology may be assessed by utilizing techniques such as hysteroscopy to identify complications for reproductive surgical interventions.
Barad, introduced androgen supplementation by way of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), to improve in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcomes in women with diminished ovarian reserve in 2005.
Between 60 and 85% of women, mostly with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), ovulate successfully in response to clomiphene with a cumulative pregnancy rate of 30 to 40%.
Fertility preservation is a key part of discussing cancer treatment in reproductive-age patients who are at risk of infertility after therapy: in one study, 70% of female cancer patients were concerned about fertility at the time of diagnosis, and 50% desired to have children after treatment.
On 1 November 2016, former patients of Barwin brought a class action against Barwin on behalf of his former patients and the children that Barwin helped conceive at his clinic, the Broadview Fertility Clinic.
Reproductive endocrinology was not yet a subspecialty; in fact, she and her husband's accomplishments have contributed to the successful reproductive endocrinology programs that are offered at Johns Hopkins.
Private registries Sperm banks keep their own records of sperm donors and recipients, although there may not be any obligation to save them unless there is non-anonymous sperm donation, let alone any obligation to reveal them for donor conceived people who want to know about their genetic history.
In 1997, Barwin was appointed to the Order of Canada for having a "profound impact on both the biological and psycho-social aspects of women's reproductive health." In 2009, he was awarded the Honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Carleton University.
The map shows the current and former distribution area and the approximate seasonal spread of the screw-worm fly.
Bioethics Horse cloning, like that of other animal species, raises bioethical issues, since it involves a high mortality rate of embryos, fetuses and young foals.
The risk of OHSS is smaller when using GnRH antagonist protocol instead of GnRH agonist protocol for suppression of ovulation during ovarian hyperstimulation.
Embryos from rescued in vitro-matured metaphase II (IVM-MII) oocytes show significantly higher fertilization rates and more blastomeres per embryo compared with those from arrested metaphase I (MI) oocytes (58.5% vs.
Posthumous sperm retrieval (PSR) is a procedure in which spermatozoa are collected from the testes of a human corpse after brain death.
She worked in the state laboratories of Massachusetts for a year and then applied for a research position with John Rock, a fertility doctor, at the Free Hospital for Women (now part of Brigham and Women's Hospital) in Boston.
Society and culture There are a variety of social stigmas that surround male infertility throughout the world.
Gupta's proposed taxonomy, as expected, moved the medically important "pneumoniae" group out of Mycoplasma into its own genus.
Another meta-analysis in 2022, again led by Hagai Levine, reported that sperm concentration declined by 53.3 percent and sperm count by 56.3 percent in Western countries (1973-2015), and by 27.6 and 24.7 percent respectively, in non-Western countries (1986-2018).
The FDA informed clinics that they considered the cytoplasmic transfer technique as a new treatment, and, as such, it would require an Investigational New Drug (IND) application.
When calculating these costs, the costs of the hotel, travel, and hospital stay may also be considered in addition to the medical treatment.
Currently, EFI remains the only validated classification system that predicts pregnancy outcomes for patients following laparoscopy for endometriosis.
In order to achieve this public demand for milk, dairy farmers needed to change their breeding routines.
Ingredients polymer type A (hydroxyethyl cellulose) glycerin purified water See also Fallopian tube obstruction Chromopertubation Gynecologic ultrasonography == References ==
The sperm is mixed to create a volume of 10 ml, sufficient to fill the uterine cavity, pass through the interstitial part of the tubes and the ampulla, finally reaching the peritoneal cavity and the Pouch of Douglas where it would be mixed with the peritoneal and follicular fluid.
A few live births have already been made by taking small early tertiary follicles, letting them mature in vitro and subsequently fertilizing them.
Embryo Ranking Intelligent Classification Algorithm (ERICA) is a deep learning AI software designed to assist embryologists and clinicians during the embryo selection process leading to embryo transfer, a critical step of in vitro fertilisation treatments (IVF).
IVF and other ART techniques, including cloning via interspecies somatic cell nuclear transfer (iSCNT), are also used in attempts to increase the numbers of endangered or vulnerable species, such as Northern white rhinos, cheetahs, and sturgeons.
The cervix is cleaned with an antiseptic and injected with a local anesthetic to minimize discomfort and pain.
Feskov is one of the most well-known reproductive technology and surrogacy specialists in Ukraine, and has over 100 academic publications.
But it has refused to say whether he was suspended ahead of the court case or if his role in maternal medicine had been restricted".
Wood was an invited speaker at over 90 national and international meetings, and wrote 23 books, 59 chapters and 400 papers in refereed medical and scientific journals.
Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 57 out of 100, based on 14 critics, indicating "mixed or average" reviews.
Education Born in Alchevsk, Ukraine, Feskov was an intern in obstetrics and gynecology at the 1st City Clinical Hospital in Kharkiv, Ukraine.
Clock pins do not have a standardised taper, but they generally have a more pronounced taper than the standard engineering pins.
Surface finish A flush rivet is used primarily on external metal surfaces where good appearance and the elimination of unnecessary aerodynamic drag are important.
The strands are plied in the opposite direction to that of their twist, which adds torsional strength to the cord and keeps it from unravelling.
In the 17th and 18th century, the áo giao lĩnh worn by men was an ankle-level gown which could be used as part of a formal attire; it was composed of four-panel of fabric and was loose-fitting and featured a jiaoling youren collar, loose sleeves, and side slits.
The product has been marketed by various brands but the original company was Slanket created by Gary Clegg, then other companies like Snuggie, Snuggler, Doojo, Oodie and Toasty Wrap, copying the brand later.
With reference to the dimension of the gusset, the measurements of a flat bottom bag may be quoted as L×W×G.
Many of those who seek breast augmentation want "full cleavage" which, according to plastic surgeon Jeffrey Weinzweig, "in reality results only from external forces, such as a brassier.
The industry is strongly tied to the production of automobiles, aircraft, appliances, agricultural machinery, commercial construction, and infrastructure.
A button blanket is wool blanket embellished with mother-of-pearl buttons, created by Northwest Coastal tribes, that is worn for ceremonial purposes.
Application: Joint between piston rod and cross head of a steam engine Joint between valve rod and its steam A steam engine connecting rod strap end Foundation bolt Bolted A bolted joint is a mechanical joint which is the most popular choice for connecting two members together.
Typically, this style of neckline is associated with skin-baring clothing, including undergarments and activewear.
The appearance of interlocking buckle promoted the emergence and the popularity of the standup collar and the Chinese jacket with buttons at the front, and laid the foundation of the use of Chinese knot buckles.
This technique will allow the ceiling board to bow down and stay tight to the angle over time as the truss lifts.
"Gynametry," published in 1887) it is conjectured that in poor prints the apostrophe and the crossbar of the lower case "e" were indistinct, and the neologism "armscye" was created by readers who concatenated the orphaned fragments "arm" and "s" with the corrupt "cye".
Due to cultural value placed on traditional designs, these blankets remain popular and are used by many people in India.
To overcome possible remanent magnetism, which could cause the electromagnet to fail to release, some door holders are equipped with a spring-loaded pin that helps push the magnetic plate away from the electromagnet when the power is cut.
Baltimore album quilts, Broderie perse, Hawaiian quilts, Amish quilts, Egyptian Khayamiya, tivaevae, the ralli quilts of India and Pakistan also use appliqué.
In addition, purely aesthetic variants have been patented, clips with triangular, star, or round shapes.
A tassel is primarily an ornament, and was at first the casual termination of a cord to prevent unraveling with a knot.
"Hurricane clip" has two meanings in building construction: A connecting tie that provides a continuous structural load transfer path from the top of a building to its foundation, helping to protect buildings from damage resulting from high wind.
Since fabric is generally more flexible than paper, the fabric will shift around the apex of the cone and form a softer, but still curved, shape.
The primary life support system for the EMU suit used on the Space Shuttle and International Space Station is manufactured by Hamilton Sundstrand.
History 19th century A striped boat neck shirt was used in sailors' uniforms of the French Navy in 1858.
Brass fasteners are made of a soft metal such as brass and the tines are typically of two slightly different lengths to allow easy separation.
Straps are also used as fasteners to attach, secure, carry, or bind items, to objects, animals (for example a saddle on a horse) and people (for example a watch on a wrist), or even to tie down people and animals, as on an apparatus for corporal punishment.
Skirts rose all the way from floor-length to near knee-length in little more than fifteen years (from late in the decade of the 1900s to the mid-1920s).
The automotive and electrical industries use coiled pins in such products as steering boxes and columns, pumps, electric motors and circuit breakers.
Delmonai were usually embroidered by the women of Lithuania Minor themselves; however, they could also order delmonai from a tailor as well.
In literature The earliest mention of Bengali kantha is found in the medieval Bengali literature Chaitanya Charitamrita by Krishnadasa Kaviraja, written during the late 16th century.
It came into wide use especially in the United States in the latter half of the 19th century, when men's ready-made shirts came in a single (extra long) sleeve length.
Stainless steel cable ties are also available for flameproof applications—coated stainless ties are available to prevent galvanic attack from dissimilar metals (e.g.
The two slots cut in each loop are shaped so that the wire handles can be folded down once the clip has been attached, and the spring force of the wire holds them down on the surface of the paper.
A similar idea, also known as a shock mount, is found in furniture design, introduced by Charles and Ray Eames.
A Gripple wire joiner is a device used to join and tension wire, to terminate and suspend wires and wire ropes, and also to support false ceilings, cable baskets, and similar items.
Anyone who failed to wear the badge in time or wore a fake badge would be labeled as a bourgeois or alien element by the wearer and criticized.
Although the design of the áo giao lĩnh was heavily influenced by China, it was less constrained in style compared to its Chinese counterpart; and thus, facilitated ease of movements to its wearer.
Some dress shirts are sold with shorter, wider stays than the classic shirt stay (e.g., Tommy Hilfiger).
Regenerable systems allowed a shuttle mission a longer stay in space without having to replenish its sorbent canisters.
A monument of a seated Franklin stands near the sculpture; legend has it that when this man of considerable girth sat down, his vest button popped off and rolled across the university's Locust Walk.
Some scholars have suggested phoenix buttons may have been used for "decorating Men's clothing",” and were items "associated with social displays of high status" among indigenous peoples.
Gussets were used at the shoulders, underarms, and hems of traditional shirts and chemises made of rectangular lengths of linen to shape the garments to the body.
It can hold a few to many sheets of paper, and is usually used in place of the paper clip for large volumes of paper.
It is commonly used in garments such as swimwear, camisoles, crop tops, brassieres, sundresses, cocktail dresses,evening gowns and form-fitting body con so-named for its resemblance to the thin pasta strings called spaghetti.
A captive fastener is sometimes made with thread locking, press-fitting, or broaching to accomplish an anchor-hold within a larger assembly housing.
The term is also used in bookbinding, where a narrow soutache is applied at the top and bottom of a book back to reinforce the spine and provide a barrier to keep dust out of the binding.
They are simple in design and require work holding fixtures only, so the clamping and component query devices are much more affordable.
Rivets come in a range of diameters and lengths depending on the materials being joined; head styles are either flush countersunk or pan heads.
The three-ring system is simple, inexpensive, reliable, and requires fewer operations than earlier parachute release systems while reducing the physical force needed.
A crossbar for a single jamb may be "captured" on the door by U-shaped bails, or anchored by a bolt on its inboard end and pivoted up and down into open cleats, making it a form of latch.
The ratcheting mechanism functions similarly to a socket wrench; you open and close the fastener repeatedly to pull the webbing through the fastener.
This is distinguished from hemming which simply folds the edge over; facing is (or appears to be) a more substantial layer of additional fabric added to the edges of the garment.
A positive locking device is a device used in conjunction with a fastener in order to positively lock the fastener.
When gas enters the PLSS, activated charcoal removes odors and lithium hydroxide (LiOH) removes carbon dioxide.
Given the royal collar of the swan, the marriage of the future Henry IV to Mary de Bohun probably provides the earliest possible date.
If the lower slider is raised then the bottom part of the jacket may be opened to allow more comfortable sitting or bicycling.
Depending on the badge, the leader is depicted in a Western suit, military attire, or some other type of clothing.
By the 17th century, pockets were sewn into men's clothing, while women's remained as separate tie-on pouches hidden beneath skirts.
The Valsalva device is a device used in spacesuits, some full face diving masks, and diving helmets to allow astronauts and commercial divers to equalize the pressure in their ears by performing the Valsalva maneuver inside the suit without using their hands to block their nose.
Coiled pins continue to flex after insertion when a load is applied to the pin thus providing excellent performance to counter fatigue in dynamic applications.
This is seen on most CD-ROM drives as an "emergency eject" should the power fail; also on early floppy disk drives (including the early Macintosh).
German and Austrian mountaineers started using them during the late 19th century, with a mention of their use from 1879, and their continued use for climbing by climbers in Saxon Switzerland.
Sports Sleeves made from Spandex or Lycra are used by long-distance runners and other endurance athletes.
Many of such women would pass delmonai to younger generations, who would then donate them for various museums of Lithuania.
Television show host David Letterman immortalized this during the February 28, 1984 episode of Late Night with David Letterman on NBC.
In the western world during the 19th century, the contortion of waistbands was less pronounced due to the fashionability of suspenders.
Brooches with religious motifs and enamelled miniature portraits were popular during this time period.
Divided shirt-cuffs are of three kinds, depending on fastening: Button cuffs, also called barrel cuffs, have buttonholes on the one side and buttons on the other (sometimes more than one, so that the fit can be adjusted).
Note that, unlike the traditional bayonet fitting, the retaining springs act laterally on the pins so no inward pressure is required to lock the lamp in the fitting.
See also References External links Media related to Collars at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of collar (clothing) at Wiktionary Collars on Boys Shirts and Blouses: From the Historical Boys' Clothing website
However, Monash, as commander of the 3rd Division, was able to claim by November 1916 that "'All who have a right to be called "Anzacs" among us are now wearing a metal "A" on the colour patches on the sleeves".
and were found along with needles and tools that were used to sew clothing and make nets for hunting small animals and birds.
While holding the button away from the garment, the thread is then firmly wrapped around the button (in between the button and fabric) a few times to form a sturdy wrapper for the other threads.
Jones (4 May 1987), Conference Proceedings, Society of Plastics Engineers 1987 Annual Technical Papers, pp.
The angle of the wedge determines the position of the parts being held; therefore, on a bicycle, the pedal arms will only be at 180 degrees to each other if the angle of the cotter pin's wedge is the same on both pins.
The word "butterfly" refers to the motion of the prongs when the fastener is opened, which somewhat resembles that of butterfly wings.
Book clasps were used to tightly hold the covers of a book together, keeping the book closed and the pages flat.
Military Military personnel commonly wear name badges on their uniforms, generally on the right chest.
An aglet keeps the fibers of the lace or cord from unraveling; its firmness and narrow profile make it easier to hold and easier to feed through eyelets, lugs, or other lacing guides.
A pin-back button or pinback button, pin button, button badge, or simply pin-back or badge, is a button or badge that can be temporarily fastened to the surface of a garment using a safety pin, or a pin formed from wire, a clutch or other mechanism.
External links Media related to Sleeves at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of outer arm at Wiktionary The dictionary definition of sleeve at Wiktionary
A butterfly clutch, also known as a Ballou clutch, is a type of fastener that attaches to the back of a tack pin to secure an accessory to clothing.
Instead of relying on darts to shape the garment, the fit is achieved with long seams (princess seams) and shaped pattern pieces.
The most generally useful size in entomology is size 2, which is 0.46 millimetres (0.018 in) in diameter, with sizes 1 and 3 being the next most useful.
For example, in the UK, the connector on the end of a headphone lead is known as a jack that plugs into a socket on the main unit.
This form of art showcases the flexibility and adaptability of the paper clip beyond its traditional use.
He was a trustee of such institutions and also served in the Massachusetts General Court as a representative and senator.
It is named after FitzRoy Somerset, 1st Baron Raglan, who is said to have worn a coat with this style of sleeve after the loss of his arm in the Battle of Waterloo.
Similar neckline styles would be the bateau neckline (also known as a boat neck) and a scoop neck cut.
The ANZAC "A" badge is a brass insignia authorised in November 1917 for members of the First Australian Imperial Force who had served as a member of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZACs) during the Gallipoli campaign in 1915.
Whitehead patented the first innovation to the design in 1893 by inserting a sheet of transparent film made of celluloid over a photograph mounted on a badge to protect the image from scratches and abrasion.
The contest requests "proposed solutions for fecal, urine, and menstrual management systems to be used in the crew’s launch and entry suits over a continuous duration of up to 144 hours".
Appliqué is commonly practised with textiles, but the term may be applied to similar techniques used on different materials.
The word Velcro is a portmanteau of two French words: "velours" meaning velvet, and "crochet" meaning hook.
The high production costs are due to the amount of calculation and precision that must be done in order to create a strong snap-fit.
Many kinds exist, though a common type combines a short length of fine wire bent into a diamond shape, with one corner held by a piece of tinplate or plastic.
(This latter function is provided for spacecraft by Micrometeoroid and Orbital Debris (MMOD) Protection systems.) The specific design of TMGs varies between different space agencies and different suits, though they all serve the same purpose.
This pattern is highly developed and very accurate pattern that is designed to fit a specific set of measurements.
Thus, there was a removal of shoulder pads and other internal structuring during the easy, oversized, unconstructed Big Look or Soft Look era of the mid-seventies, spearheaded in womenswear by Kenzo Takada in 1973-74 and in menswear by Giorgio Armani a couple of years later.
In knitting gloves and mittens, a "thumb gore" is often incorporated from the wrist part way to the tip of the thumb to accommodate the gradually increasing width of the hand.
Coiled pins are commercially available in three different duties, standard (ISO 8750), heavy (ISO 8748) and light duty (ISO 8751), which provide for a variety of combinations of strength, flexibility and diameter to suit different mating host materials and performance requirements.
However, after four hours waiting on the pad he could no longer hold it, and had to urinate inside his pressure suit, shorting the biomedical electrodes attached to his body.
Sources Extreme steel 'Velcro' takes a 35-tonne load, New Scientist, 2009-09-04 German-language website with technical and business details Systematische Untersuchungen zu metallischen Klettverbindungen - ISBN 978-3-89791-394-3
When there is no need to use them they can be blanked either by turning one piece 90° against the other or by inserting an extra plastic piece designed to fit that purpose.
These early sewers also utilized thimbles to guard against occasional finger pricks, as evidenced by ancient artifacts.
A crew neck (also spelled crewneck or crew-neck) is a type of shirt or sweater that has a round neckline and no collar and is often worn with other layers.
A lapel pin, also known as an enamel pin, is a small pin worn on clothing, often on the lapel of a jacket, attached to a bag, or displayed on a piece of fabric.
Maar de hertog van Anjou bleek geen goede leider en men wilde hem niet te veel macht geven; als reactie probeerde deze de macht dan maar met geweld te grijpen en richtte zo de Franse furie aan, maar werd ten slotte verdreven.
In the United States and the United Kingdom, the top button is virtually always left unbuttoned, unless one is wearing a necktie, but unbuttoning two or more buttons is seen as overly casual.
21st century The princess line remains a popular style for wedding dresses and a design staple for both day and evening dresses.
By the Tang dynasty, the incorporation of flowing garments into court dances further refined the aesthetic groundwork for water sleeves.
Sewing patterns specify if interfacing is needed, the weight of interfacing that is required, and the amount.
During the 15th and 16th centuries, this form of pleating was popular in the garments of men and women.
Other applications include pintle and lunette ring for towing, and pintle pins securing casters in furniture.
Description and history The Chester Herald, John Heaton-Armstrong, was "commissioned to prepare a badge for the RAAF" in 1937.
A specific form of radially assembled retaining ring is the Benzing ring (also called Benzing washer), named after its inventor and patent holder, Hugo Benzing.
A strap differs from a belt mainly in that a strap is usually integral to the item of clothing; either can be used in combination with buckles.
P pad stitching Pad stitching is used to secure two pieces of fabric together with perpendicular stitches.
Components Strap loop Strap union Strap fitting Packaging The strap is commonly used in the packaging industry to secure or fasten items.
The most common type has a single snap hook at one end and a swivel ring at the other, but double ended bolt snaps and single ended snaps with a swivel shackle are also available.
EN 12195-2 specifies the strength, construction, marking, and testing requirements for these assemblies to ensure safe load restraint.
Iron tie rods would later be used as a device to reinforce arches, vaults, and cupolas constructed across Medieval Europe.
Patients undergoing pulmonary resections, where lung tissue is sealed with staplers, often experience postoperative air leakage.
The channel is mirrored on the opposite side of the Gripple wire joiner, allowing a second piece of wire to be joined.
Between 1919 and 1923 they changed considerably, being almost to the floor in 1919, rising to the mid-calf in 1920, before dropping back to the ankles by 1923.
After the spacewalk, during rapid repressurization of the airlock, the Valsalva device on Parmitano's helmet failed and came apart while he tried to use it as it was not water proof.
The professional golfer Fuzzy Zoeller was known for this practice; as the golf shirt is a looser-fitting descendant of René Lacoste's tennis shirt, off the course Zoeller wears his golf shirt's collar turned down, whereas one often observes him with an upturned collar while he is playing.
There are also other forms of plug-in shelf supports commonly used in a wardrobes or cabinets (cabinet shelf support, wardrobe shelf support, shelf pin, shelf support peg, shelf support push).
(Named for Jawaharlal Nehru, Prime Minister of India 1947–1964, who commonly wore clothing with this type of collar.) A band is often a mandarin collar.
Turnlock fasteners are available in several different styles and are usually referred to by the manufacturer's trade name.
Vents are convenient, particularly when using a pocket or sitting down, to improve the hang of the jacket, so are now used on most jackets.
Ladder Dogs (in the form of pawls) are used on extension ladders to temporarily anchor their sections to one-another.
Badge of Honor (film), a 1934 American film directed by Spencer Gordon Bennet See also Cross of Honour (disambiguation), various awards.
Some historians of dress such as Bernard Rudofsky have ridiculed the evolution of jacket lapels into "vastly unnecessary flaps" and "decorative rudiments", while others have celebrated the transformation of lapels into "fetishes" as part of fashion as expression.
In 1520, the church at Regensbury sold over 120,000 badges to medieval pilgrims, after a drastic shortage the previous year.
Ratchet A pawl is used in combination with a ratchet gear in socket wrenches, bicycle freehubs, winches, ratchet reels for diving, fishing, and many other applications.
History 19th century The princess line is popularly associated with Charles Frederick Worth who first introduced it in the early 1870s.
A clip worn on a lapel or front pocket could be seen as "deux gaules" (two posts or poles) and be interpreted as a reference to the leader of the French Resistance, General Charles de Gaulle.
When activated, the OPS provided oxygen to a separate inlet on the pressure suit, once a vent valve on a separate suit outlet was manually opened.
The raglan mid-length sleeve is a popular undergarment (worn under the jersey) for baseball teams in MLB.
The religious association of these sleeves eventually dissipated at which point the bell sleeve became adapted by the upper class.
Pins are often worn by athletes on their lanyards or accreditation badges to indicate a willingness to trade.
1820–1841), the clothing in Vietnam was finally standardized throughout the entire country when Emperor Minh Mang decreed that the áo ngũ thân had to become the national dress for all the regions in 1830.
Many lengths of bias-cut fabric can be pieced together into a long "tape", which is typically sold in metre or roll lengths by haberdashers.
History In 19s, there were no factories or production outlets for woollen or cotton blankets in much of India.
Applications Because of their ease of use, hook-and-loop fasteners have been used for a wide variety of applications where a temporary bond is required.
These fasteners are notable in that they are of an "over-centre" design, requiring positive sustained torque to unfasten.
A child could earn this version of the badge by introducing someone to a new sport (maybe a friend or a brother or sister).
Cloth is usually woven on a loom, a device that holds the warp threads in place while filling threads are woven through them.
The prohibition was renewed at various intervals throughout the century, and in the same interval the use of the ribbon loom was interdicted in most of the principal industrial centres of Europe.
Some of these special pliers can be configured for internal or external clips, while in other cases, one plier is used for internal clips and another for external clips.
Variety There is a subtle distinction between aglets, which are generally functional, and aiguillettes, which are generally decorative.
In this case, the suggestion may be that the sleeve garter facilitates freedom of movement and aids in gunslingers’ ability to quick draw.
See also Badge Campaign button Lapel pin Prizes Promotional merchandise Safety pin References External links The Busy Beaver Button Museum Collection of United States Social Pinback Buttons.
Additionally, this period of time heavily embraced doing things yourself and creating your own clothes.
Design engineers apply the Junker test to determine the point at which fastener securing elements – such as lock nuts, wedges and lock washers – fail when subjected to vibration.
Magnetic clasp – Magnetic clasps are composed of a small disc magnet that is attracted to another magnet that is attached to the back of the pin.
Pom-poms are also waved by sports fans, primarily at college and high school sports events in the United States.
It was used extensively in the 18th and 19th centuries, particularly in tricorns, bicornes and shakos used in military uniforms.
It was developed by Reinz-Dichtungs-GmbH, Technische Universität München, Hölzel Stanz- und Feinwerktechnik GmbH & Co.
There are many other proverbial and metaphorical expressions associated with the sleeve, such as "to wear one's heart upon one's sleeve", and "to laugh in one's sleeve".
Invented in its original large ring form by Bill Booth, and subsequently scaled down for thinner Type 17 webbing risers the three-ring system allows a skydiver to quickly cut-away a malfunctioning main parachute with a single motion.
Ruffles are versatile and can be incorporated into dresses of all styles, from elegant gowns to playful party dresses, making them appealing to women of all ages.
In the 9–0 decision on judgement, the Court ruled that a plaintiff in a trademark infringement lawsuit is not required to demonstrate that the defendant willfully infringed on their trademark to claim lost profit damages.
It is especially popular in clothing where it replaces buttons or zippers, and as a shoe fastener for children who have not yet learned to tie shoelaces.
It is traditionally used in nautically inspired sweaters and knitwear, but is also featured in more elegant cocktail dresses and eveningwear.
The user presses the two handles together, causing the jaws to open against the force of the spring, then inserts a stack of papers and releases the handles.
The Space Poop Challenge was a 2016 contest sponsored by NASA for new designs of space toilet systems for use in space suits.
The object is such a common sight in offices that, in late 2020, when restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic were lowered and people started returning to their offices, some missed and enjoyed the feeling of using a binder clip, after months without doing so.
Notable wearers Notable people who have worn finger sleeves include: Kobe Bryant, who wore them to hold a protective gel pad on his arthritic fingers.
In many cases, the finger sleeve is worn for protection as an alternative to performing some sort of taping job on the digit.
The Dzus fastener, also known as a turnlock fastener or quick-action panel fastener, is a type of proprietary quarter-turn spiral cam lock fastener often used to secure skin panels on aircraft and other high-performance vehicles.
The neckline was introduced in the 1920s by Madeleine Vionnet based on her study of ancient Grecian sculptures.
In situations where the wearer must stay in place inside a vehicle, heavy but long-term-operation heat exchangers can be used, such as a refrigeration system to cool the liquid.
History Badges depicting Mao Zedong first appeared at the Chinese People's Anti-Japanese Military and Political College (中国人民抗日军事政治大学) at Yan'an during the 1930s.
Natural: A horizontal waistline that falls at the natural waist and tends to make the wearer seem shorter by visually dividing the figure in half.
The process is fast, robust, and is flexible in nature; thus improving its usage and providing reliability to the riveted joint along with the final product quality.
They are also used as pivots and axles, for alignment and stopping, to fasten multiple components together—such as a gear and shaft—and even as ejector pins to remove motherboards from PCs.
References External links The dictionary definition of thumbtack at Wiktionary Media related to Pushpins at Wikimedia Commons Media related to Drawing pins at Wikimedia Commons
Eastern deacons and sometimes subdeacons, but rarely readers or other minor clerics, also wear a clerical collar, with subdeacons and readers often having a style with no notch, or a tab shirt with no tab.
Straight pins General purpose pins The push pin was invented in 1900 by Edwin Moore and quickly became a success.
Electronics A pogo pin is a type of electrical connector mechanism widely used in modern electronics.
History According to the Church of England's Enquiry Centre (citing the Glasgow Herald of December 6, 1894), the detachable clerical collar was invented in 1865 by the Rev.
A study found that, as widths exceed 100 millimetres (3.9 in), the advantage of having a wider plate decreased, indicating a width threshold for optimal support.
Separate ruffs exist alongside attached ruffled collars from the mid-16th century, usually to allow starching and other fine finishing, or to make collar-laundering easier.
Usage and history Worn at the end of the 18th century – beginning of the 20th century – when region was a part of the Kingdom of Prussia – delmonai served a certain practical function.
Garment collars in hanfu are diverse and come in several shapes, including jiaoling (cross-collars, overlapping collars at the front which closed on the right or left sides), duijin, yuanling, liling, fangling, tanling.
This practical feature was not hidden at first – dalmonai was the most decorated item of the costume.
For example, they are not welcome at Ascot Racecourse as well as in traditionalist societies like Saudi Arabia or Afghanistan.
Material and culture Among some members of the Yoruba, the placement of beads upon their waistbands is an established tradition that is believed to enhance and accentuate a women's femininity.
The user passes the wire loop through the needle eye, passes the string through the wire loop and, finally, pulls the wire loop, back, through the needle by the handle, which pulls the thread through at the same time.
Tennis strings In tennis, the strings are the part of a tennis racquet which make contact with the ball.
Banner making It is particularly suitable for work which is to be seen from a distance, such as in banner-making.
Please see external links for images of buttons (front & back) made from the material(s) in question.
Tying The basic chinese button knot (ABOK #599 on one string) is usually tied with a carrick bend that attaches the two ends as a first step.
The technique is mostly used on knit textiles such as jersey fabric, which allow the hem to hold its shape.
From the late 19th century on polo necks were commonly worn by fishermen, manual workers, athletes, sailors and naval officers.
Manufacturers, using more and more automation in the manufacture and packaging of food, needed methods to raise production volumes and reduce costs.
This resurgence can be attributed to a growing appreciation for romantic and feminine aesthetics, as ruffles add an enchanting flair to garments.
The electric power to keep the doors open is typically 12 VDC, 24 VDC (common), 24 VAC, 120 VAC, or 240 VAC.
Skirts of lower-calf or mid-calf length were associated with the practical working garments of lower-class women or American pioneer women, while even shorter skirt lengths were seen only in certain specialized and restricted contexts (e.g.
The carrier also could not use the separate subsidiary to promote their data processing services, use network computers for non-network purposes, or use network computers during peak hours to provision data processing services.
Representation and liaison with international institutions on matters of information, media and communications.
Note 2: The FCC registration program contains no requirement that accepted terminal equipment be compatible with, or function with, the network.
Ruth Nankabinwa, the current ICT cabinet minister, has set a medium-term goal for Uganda to join the six leading African countries in the ICT sector.
The telecom sector leads economic reconstruction with four mobile service providers which cover 75% of the country with over 2,400 towers in more than 250 of the largest urban areas.
878 transferred Canada's provincially regulated telephone companies to federal jurisdiction, meaning that they would be regulated by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.
Zone 1, the Radio Astronomy Instrument Zone, restricts intentional radiators to those that are deemed essential.
It was formed on 1 August 1952 by the merger of the Ministry of Postal Services (郵政省) and the Ministry of Telecommunications (電気通信省), which themselves superseded the Ministry of Communications (逓信省, Teishin-shō) from 1 April 1946.
The Telecommunications Act was issued, and the Communications commission was established with a legal status and financial and administrative independence after the Cabinet decree No.
The number of American major media content companies shrank from about fifty in 1983 to ten in 1996, and to just six in 2005.
Then, in 1974, the name was changed to "Ministry of Communication and post" and after a couple of years (in 1976); it was again renamed "Ministry of Transport and Communications".
Organizations like the International Society for Technology in Education and the Consortium for School Networking regularly petition Congress to update the CIPA to address more recent online technologies and behaviors, without banning Internet usage by children altogether.
It oversees: Net*One TelOne Zimpost Zimbabwe in the past 20 years between 2000 and 2020 has seen internet penetration increase by 11,567% == References ==
Category B services (formerly "Category 2"): digital specialty services that were licensed to carry narrower, niche formats in comparison to Category A-licensed channels.
Accounting Safeguards The FCC created a series of accounting safeguards that can be found in Subpart I of Part 64 of Title 47, Code of Federal Regulations.
History The Ministry of Communications was established in 1920 in connection with the division of the Ministry for Civil Service Affairs.
There is no other non-governmental body in India that regulates the advertising content that is released in India.
The act's structure of regulations based on type of network infrastructure failed to predict technological convergence and created awkward regulatory burdens for companies operating in multiple segments of media and telecommunications markets.
A sign placed near the transmitter is used to entice passersby (nearly always in automobiles) to tune in.
There were several subsidiary company and centers which went through many evolutions and were able to spread communication solutions inside Iran.
Technest Scholarship Technest is a national scholarship program in the field of ICT established under the Innovation and Digital Development Agency.
A number of projects have been transferred to the Ministry, which has expanded its staff by 8 employees to a total of 36.
All postal, telegraph and telephone issues were subjected to Ministry of Industry and Commerce, which controlled General Office of Posts and Telegraphs.
The ministry was created under a reorganization plan initiated by South Korean President Park Geun-hye in an effort to generate new sources of economic growth in the areas of science and information technology.
Organization The organization consists of the Minister, the First and Second Vice Ministers, the Headquarters Director, three offices (실), 19 bureaus (국) and offices (관), and 70 divisions (과) and teams.
See also Holy See Press Office Vatican News References External links Vatican Information Service official website
The proceedings are initiated by the Charter on the basis of claim submission, registered by the Secretariat of the Charter's Council, and forwarded to the council after checking of the formalities for the further decision.
ANACOM is also responsible for supporting the development of markets and of electronic and postal communications networks, for protecting the rights and interests of citizens, and providing Portuguese representation at international bodies relevant to the sector.
In a Report and Order released November 30, 1995, the Commission adopted rules designed to streamline the registration process and began requiring antenna structure owners (instead of licensees) to register these structures with the Commission.
It is a biweekly pamphlet available from the Government Printing Office Superintendent of Documents.
In the early 1930s, the Comintern Radio Station, with a power of 500 kW, was constructed along with a number of other stations with a power of 100 kW each.
Terrestrial television The term community channel may also refer to a conventional broadcast station — such as, CFTV-DT in Leamington, Ontario, CFSO-TV in Cardston, Alberta, CHCO-TV in St.
In its present form, HAKOM was established in 2008 after the merger of two earlier regulatory agencies, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency (HAT) and the Postal Services Council (VPU).
Requires such a closed meeting to be disclosed within two business days after the meeting, along with a list of persons in attendance and a summary of discussed matters, provided that such matters are not classified or otherwise exempt from disclosure.
In August 1945, the National Association of Broadcasters dropped its policy that air time for controversial issues should not be sold, except for political broadcasts.
The provision of a community channel is required by CRTC regulations governing the licensing of cable companies.
This also had an influence on the convergence of regulation resulting in the merging of the IBA and SATRA.
Redstone had been very particular about maintaining the integrity of Paramount Global's assets, especially CBS and Paramount Pictures.
Source: Note: The Major Trading Area (MTA) numbers in this table are based on alphabetical sorting, rather than population.
The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (郵政省, Yūsei-shō) was one of the ministries in the Japanese government.
Thus the network has registered a sevenfold growth since independence, with the focus of the expansion primarily in rural areas.
Free-to-air TV content must also adhere to additional restrictions, as outlined in Section 5 of the Content Code.
The CRTC's better-known simultaneous substitution policy, involving full replacements of American broadcasts with Canadian broadcasts of the same programs, was not mentioned in the decision.
In the media and broadcasting sector, most media ownership regulations were eased, and the cap on radio station ownership was eliminated.
History The Ministry was originally created on 31 August 1991 as Ministry of Print and Mass Media with Quanysh Sultanov being its first Minister.
It enforces media ethics which governs all media organizations in Fiji as well as regulating media content and implementing rules on advertising.
Electricity and gas In the electricity and gas market, the Agency is responsible for ensuring non-discriminatory third-party access to networks and regulating the fees.
When FCC Chair Kevin Martin replaced FCC Chair Michael Powell, he immediately changed FCC's hands-off policy and moved to impose 911 obligations on VoIP service providers.
Why, Massachusetts Department of Telecommunications and Cable Commissioner Stephen Michael Bloom, Oregon Public Utility Commission Chairman Robert M.
Pressombudsmannen (or press Ombudsman) is a person whose role in the Swedish print media is to determine whether the actions of a newspaper is in line with good journalistic practice.
The coordinates of the headquarters of the ministry are 00°18'49.0"N, 32°35'13.0"E (Latitude:0.313622; Longitude:32.586938).
The system served the public interest through public-service programming, popular entertainment, and simultaneous broadcast to a nationwide audience.
The number of telecom access has been increased in rural kebeles from only 60 in 2004/05 to 8 676 in 2007/08.
The Ministry of Information and Communications Technology is a government ministry, responsible for postal services, telephones and information technology in Zimbabwe.
546, the TCB and the BOC were integrated into a single entity now known as the National Telecommunications Commission.
Community stations (such as class A television service and LPFM stations in the U.S.) may be required to broadcast local content each week.
Chief Justice Laskin, writing for the majority of the Court, held that all television, even where exclusively produced and distributed within the province, fell within the definition of a federal undertaking under section 92(10)(a) of the Constitution Act, 1867.
History The ministry's predecessor was the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology (MHEST), which was known as the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education before 2005.
The Dutch cable TV network is one of the densest in the world, with over 95 percent of Dutch households having access to cable TV.
After that, with the reorganization of ministries in March 2016, the MCIT merged with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Rail Transportation to become the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC).
Derzhkomteleradio is the main in the system of central bodies of the executive power in formation and realization of the state policy in the sphere of television, radio-broadcasting, informational and publishing spheres.
Administrative agencies Freeway Bureau Civil Aviation Administration Tourism Administration Highway Bureau Central Weather Administration Railway Bureau Maritime and Port Bureau Institute of Transportation Government corporations Chunghwa Post Co., Ltd.
See also Independent Communications Authority of South Africa References External links Official website
The Council meetings are held at least monthly, apart from situations when no cases have been prepared for consideration in the council, with no other issues pending.
The ordinance is mandated with authority for suspension of declaration of any newspaper, agency, or journalism professionals or groups running in the country within the framework of the constitution of Pakistan.
AT&T bid $18.2 billion, Verizon $10.4 billion, and Dish Network $13.3 billion but expected to reduce its payments to $10 billion by using subsidiaries.
Note 1: The FCC registration program requires the registering of terminal equipment and protective circuitry in accordance with Subpart C of part 68, Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Mycall app, MySpeed app and Do not disturb (DND 2.0) apps can be used to ensure that there is transparency between what consumers are paying for and what telecom operators are promising to provide at a certain rate.
Classifications There are classification systems for the following types of media: films, TV programs, video games, and arts entertainment (e.g., theatrical productions).
The Ministry of Information, Communications, Transport and Tourism Development (MICTTD) is a government ministry of Kiribati, headquartered in Betio, South Tarawa.
NBC further licensed 10 set-top box manufacturers of which Gospell Digital Technology Nigeria a leading indigenous IT company led by Sir.
The FCC also restricted the ability of telecommunications carriers to bundle telecommunications services with customer premises equipment (CPE), creating a new competitive market for telephones and modems.
At the time, the FCC Chairman Michael Powell said MTV and the CBS network's more than 200 affiliates and company-owned stations could be fined $27,500 a piece.
The Federal Office for Approvals in Telecommunications (German: Bundesamt für Zulassungen in der Telekommunikation, BZT) was a federal agency in Germany responsible for approving telecommunication devices.
He noted that a large majority of prime time television—59 out of 73 hours—consisted of undesirable television genera: quiz shows, movies, variety shows, sitcoms, and action-adventure series, the last of which included espionage thrillers and the then-ubiquitous Westerns.
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is the independent regulatory authority for the telecommunications industry in Nigeria.
Developmental and Demonstration applications, Radiolocation (RS) applications, Itinerant operations and station classes ending in the letter "I" or "L" and applications for 6.1 Meter Control Stations.
A musical selection may also qualify as Canadian content if it: Is an instrumental performance of a composition by a Canadian.
Both sites had a steady churn rate prior of 3-4% for Disney+ and 4-5% for Hulu prior to the upswing.
History The department was created in September 2015 following Malcolm Turnbull becoming prime minister, replacing the Department of Communications, and transferring responsibility for the arts from the Attorney-General's Department.
Decree 267/2015, which established ENACOM, provides that the directors serve four-year terms, which may be renewed once.
In return for the rights to offer service in an area, a cable company must provide certain community benefits requested by the LFA.
The original intent of the newspaper was unabashedly polemical and propagandistic in defence of the Papal States, adopting the name of a private pamphlet financed by a French Catholic legitimist group.
Another survey, conducted less than a year after the Do Not Call list was implemented, found that people who registered for the list saw a reduction in telemarketing calls from an average of 30 calls per month to an average of 6 per month.
Codified under the Article 19: Chapter I of the Constitution of Pakistan, it has jurisdiction to impose reasonable restrictions in the interest of the religion, the integrity, national security of Pakistan.
History 1930s Vatican Radio began broadcasting with the callsign HVJ on two shortwave frequencies using 10 kilowatts (kW) of power on 12 February 1931, with the pontificial message "Omni creaturae" of Pope Pius XI.
In particular, the Right2Know coalition, who advocate open government and whistleblowing, have championed the cause against FPB's draft proposal.
It was set up under the Telecommunications Act 1984 after privatisation of the nationalised operator BT.
Its current minister is the civil engineer Juan Carlos Muñoz Abogabir, who has held the position since March 11, 2022, under the government of Gabriel Boric.
A 9.1(1)(h) order (previously known as a 9(1)(h) order) is an order issued by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) pursuant to section 9.1(1)(h) of Canada's Broadcasting Act.
However, the general opinion among media practitioners is that PEMRA only acted as a licence issuing office that has implemented regulatory barriers for broadcasters.
"The successful interconnection among the six operators is a significant achievement for the telecom industry in Somalia.
In 2008, the industry attempted to adopt a middleware standard known as tru2way, which did not require a smart card and would support two-way services delivered directly to devices.
The names of every TV station were changed to "blood is on your hands" and other phrases used in the TV listings included "television and the authorities are lying" and "your hands are covered in blood from the deaths of thousands of Ukrainians and their children".
The Authority took over the functions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on 5 October 1992 as stipulated in the Broadcasting Services Act 1992.
11) Victims of sexual assault The press must not identify victims of sexual assault or publish material likely to contribute to such identification unless there is adequate justification and they are legally free to do so.
Top billing issues included unexpected charges, unexpected price increases, and failure to provide promised credits or refunds.
12 of 2003 (CAP .172) and the revision thereof (the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority Act, CAP .172 R.E.
The Advertising Regulatory Board (ARB) is an independent entity organised and financed by members of the marketing communications industry of South Africa.
List of ministers Minister of ICT and National Guidance Chris Baryomunsi (8 June 2021 - present) Minister of Information and Communications Technology Judith Nabakooba (14 December 2019 - 6 June 2021) Frank Tumwebaze (6 June 2016 - 14 December 2019) - Dr.
The agencies main responsibilities are controlling the telecom market, issuing frequency concessions and telephone numbers.
603, signed on February 17, 2007, transferred the TELOF and all other operating units of the CICT dealing with communications back to the DOTC.
The certification process can be complex and often requires extensive knowledge of regulatory frameworks and technical procedures.
Cultural references After a national test of Wireless Emergency Alerts (live since 2012) on 3 October 2018, a number of rumours and false statements spread on social media.
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Media Bureau to each broadcast station in the FCC Consolidated Database System (CDBS) and Licensing and Management System (LMS) databases, among others.
Ministry of Post and Telecommunications of the German Democratic Republic (German: Ministerium für Post- und Fernmeldewesen der DDR) was a ministry in the Council of Ministers of East Germany responsible for telecommunications and post topics.
The Ministry of Information and Communication Technology (MICT) is a department of the Namibian government.
The adjudication in full is subsequently posted on the ASA's website, and made available to the press and the general public.
Legal regulatory bodies that govern telecommunications systems in different countries are as follows.
Responsibilities Formulation and coordination of national communication and public information policy.
By the mid-1930s, Edwin Howard Armstrong had developed frequency modulation (FM) technology that could propagate signals widely with no static at all.
The word "fuck" occurs 14 times in the song; the words "bitch" and "dickhead" also appear once each.
Notes See also Digital Nasional Berhad (DNB) References External links Official website Official website (Malay) Archived 28 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Its board of directors consists of chairman Chris Seecharanm, Deputy chairman Jerome Khan and directors Mentor Baptiste, Dr Justin Koo, Avanti Supersad, Russel Romero, Suresh Boodoo, Dion Khan and Danielle Pounder.
The Ministry of Communications is one of the ministries that has a rapporteur in the Supreme Administrative Court of Sweden.
No comprehensive study of television broadcasting, for purposes of determining the efficacy of the commission's rules in achieving legislative and commission policy, had been made.
Responsibilities The mission of the ministry is to "work for a smart, able and creative Netherlands".
The Public Members and Independent Journalist Members are appointed by the Council on the nomination of the Chair.
Dredging of Klaipėda state sea port basin, construction and reconstruction of embankments (2004–2010), improving facilities of freight and passenger service.
Content ordering and billing for VOD and PPV services may be handled via gateway generated screens but additional options are requested.
OPTA also used to regulate this market, and was a mediator in disputes between providers, although OPTA decisions could be appealed in court.
The following independent authorities are affiliated to the DETEC for administrative purposes: Swiss Transportation Safety Investigation Board (STSB, formerly Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau and Investigation Bureau for Railway, Funicular and Boat Accidents).
The ministry was dissolved on February 28, 2008 and combined with the former Korean Broadcasting Commission to form the Korea Communications Commission.
Ministers All information ministers in chronological order are: See also Telecommunications in Namibia Mass media in Namibia Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia References External links Official website Ministry of Information and Communication Technology
The database was also used to determine eligibility for the COVID-era Emergency Broadband Benefit program and the successor Affordable Connectivity Program while those programs were active.
The current statutes of ANACOM entered into force in 2015, following approval of the Framework Law of Regulatory Bodies (Framework law for independent administrative entities with functions regulating the economic activity of the private, public and cooperative sector).
On November 18, 2004, however, the CRTC approved an application by cable companies to offer Fox News Channel on the digital cable tier.
Carlin was arrested for disturbing the peace when he performed the routine at a show at Summerfest in Milwaukee in 1972.
The Ministry of Science and ICT (MSIT; Korean: 과학기술정보통신부) is a ministry of the government of South Korea.
The commission was established in 2023 as a successor body to the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland.
The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology provides an annual report to inform the public of advancements in Afghanistan's technological sector.
In 2005, ETC installed fiber optic backbone that spans 4,000 km in six radiating directions: from Addis Ababa, to Dire Dawa, Djibouti, Dessie-Mekelle, Bahir Dar-Nekemte, Jimma and Hawassa, delivering digital radio and television, internet and other multimedia services.
The Finnish Transport and Communications Agency (Finnish: Liikenne- ja viestintävirasto, Swedish: Transport- och kommunikationsverket), shortened to TRAFICOM, is a Finnish government agency dealing with transport and communication in Finland.
These include commitments to truth and accuracy, respect for privacy, protection of sources, and the right of reply.
ATC allows the operators to reuse the same satellite spectrum in a terrestrial network to increase coverage and performance for their customers in highly shadowed regions e.g.
The main office is situated at the former site of the Roman Catholic Cathedral of Phnom Penh, destroyed by the Khmer Rouge in 1975.
Starting in the 1970s, a combination of technological change, court decisions, and updates to American policy goals enabled competitive entry by new companies into some telecommunications and broadcasting markets.
Following the cabinet restructuring, the Ministry from 22 January 1999 was part of the Ministry of Culture, Information and Public Accord.
local Rome time, except during the month of August and on public holidays in Vatican City (generally Holy Days of Obligation).
All active communications licenses were extended for an additional 10 years, limits on how many licenses one group may hold were relaxed, and license transfers were also permitted.
It is led by the Minister of Communications and Information Technology, who is nominated by the Prime Minister and is a member of the Cabinet.
The CRTC does not directly regulate rates, quality of service issues, or business practices for Internet service providers.
'Malware' enables a computer to be controlled remotely for illegal and harmful activities without the owner's knowledge.
Flagged content must be output only to "protected outputs" (such as DVI and HDMI ports with HDCP encryption), or in degraded form through analog outputs or digital outputs with visual resolution of 720x480 pixels (EDTV) or less.
Conducting frequency planning, allocation and registration procedures pertaining to radio and television broadcasting.
The NCC was charged with the responsibility of regulating the supply of telecommunications services and facilities, promoting competition, and setting performance standards for telephone services in Nigeria.
It is also the Cadre Controlling Authority for Indian Telecommunication Service, Indian Postal Service and Indian Post & Telecommunication Accounts and Finance Service.
According to television historians Castleman and Podrazik (1982), the networks had already purchased their fall 1961 programs and had locked in their 1961–62 schedules at the time Minow had made his speech, leaving them unable to make the adjustments Minow had hoped.
The Hellenic Telecommunications and Post Commission (Greek: Εθνική Επιτροπή Τηλεπικοινωνιών και Ταχυδρομείων, Ethniki Epitropi Tilepikoinonion kai Tachydromeion) or EETT is a Greek independent authority with administrative and financial autonomy.
In 1999, the "grand ministry" of the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation was created through a merger of the Ministry of Communications, the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation and parts of the Ministry of the Interior (which ceased at the same time).
Headquartered in The Hague it was created to ensure competitiveness in the newly opened Dutch market for telephony and other telecom activities.
The Ministry of Communication, and ICT was a Tanzanian government ministry that was established in February 2008.
In the event that more than one applicant applied for the same broadcast license a comparative hearing became necessary.
List of licensed discretionary services Former Category A services Category A services were those which had mandatory distribution by all licensed broadcast distribution undertakings.
It mandate also reportedly includes managing spectrum and numbering resources, setting service standards, promoting sector liberalisation and creating investment to ensure nationwide access to reliable and affordable communications services.
History 1923–1989 In South Africa, the first radio and television broadcasts were done in 1923 and 1976 respectively.
History The first 911 system was installed in Haleyville, Alabama, in February 1968, as a way to quickly connect a subscriber to the local police station.
The agency's executive director is in charge of HAKOM's staff, which performs expert, technical, and administrative roles.
The Licensing and Compliance Division is responsible for developing policy, issuing licenses and ensuring compliance in relation to the provision of broadcasting, telecommunications and postal services.
History In 2004, the MIIT began the Connecting Every Village Project to promote universal access to telecommunication and internet services in rural China.
In the US, a Basic Trading Area is a geographic region defined originally in the Rand McNally Commercial Atlas and Marketing Guide and used by the FCC where a Personal Communications Service can operate.
The radio spectrum is the section of the electromagnetic spectrum that spans from about 3 kilohertz to 300 gigahertz.
They were divided into railway construction brigades and automobile transportation brigades tasked with the construction and maintenance of transport infrastructure.
Since 2023, it has held membership on the International Telecommunication Union Council (among 48 countries), in addition to its ITU membership (among 193 countries) since 1949.
He also indicated he would crack down on what had been pro forma license renewals and hold public hearings in stations' cities of license, where he anticipated viewers could answer whether their stations served public interest.
It proposes to put a "floor" on the number of community LPFM stations in each media market, without considering the land area which the market covers.
It is tasked with to enforce ethical code practice across the country and to conduct inquiry through a commission appointed for hearings and decisions based on received-complaints.
It was established and named under an Administrative Arrangements Order made on 1 July 2022, after the 2022 Australian election, under the new Albanese government.
In response to local media criticism, it was reformed as an independent body involving privately owned media representatives.
The Australian Department of Communications and the Arts was a department of the Government of Australia charged with responsibility for communications policy and programs and cultural affairs.
History The Government of Nepal first created the Press Commission, a predecessor of the Press Council Nepal in 1957.
See also Fairness Doctrine Free speech Zapple Doctrine References External links In the Matter of The Mayflower Broadcasting Corporation.
Following the lodging of the complaint, the FCC proceeded to ask Pacifica for a response, then issued a declaratory order upholding the complaint.
The Joint Stock Company "Arna Media National Information Holding" was also transferred to the new ministry, however, it was later disbanded.
Bangladesh Press Council (Bengali: বাংলাদেশ প্রেস কাউন্সিল) is a quasi-judicial institution that protects freedom of speech and regulates the press in Bangladesh and is located in Segunbagicha, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
In April 2019, the FCC office of Inspector General issued an advisory alert to carriers and beneficiaries in connection to fraudulent enrollment practices.
Information and Consumer Affairs Unit The Information and consumer affairs unit (ICAU) oversees all information matters with the aim of increasing public awareness and protecting consumer interests while promoting transparency.
It reported to the provincial legislature through the minister of transportation and communications.
Product Identification: Certified equipment must be labeled with the ANATEL logo and an approval number, indicating conformity with the agency’s standards.
Cases and appeals can be referred to the Council either by the NRK director-general or by NRK viewers and listeners.
ASCI seeks to ensure that advertisements conform to its Code for Self-Regulation, which requires advertisements to be legal, decent, honest and truthful, and not hazardous or harmful while observing fairness in competition.
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal took over the functions of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in the 1970s.
Consumer Protection: Based on TRA's Consumer Protection Regulation, TRA protects consumers from breaches in advertising and other products or services.
Fernando Giménez Barriocanal Ann Carter Dino Cataldo Dell'Accio Graham Ellis Peter Gonsalves José María La Porte Ivan Maffeis James Martin, S.J.
Its mandated responsibilities include licensing, regulation, communications infrastructure development and the expansion of rural communications service.
The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (Dari: وزارت مخابرات ‏و تکنالوژی معلوماتی, Pashto: د مخابراتو او معلوماتي ټکنالوجۍ وزارت) (MCIT) is an organ of the government of Afghanistan.
Postal services The Agency's responsibility in the post market include the licensing of companies for postal services and the observation of the market.
History The Telecommunication Authority of Singapore (TAS) was the statutory board that acted as the national regulator and promoter of the telecommunication and postal industries in Singapore.
Radio can serve as an instrument of democracy only when devoted to the communication of information and the exchange of ideas fairly and objectively presented.
Through consensus decisions of its members, the council recommends procedures, policies, and technical means for efficient numbering administration, impartial to any telecommunication industry interest group.
Construction Machinery Training Institute Construction Machinery Training Centre (CMTC) was established in May 1986 with the assistance of the Government of Japan through Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
Spectrum sections to use Wireless requires bandwidth, and because of this, there would need to be enough of the spectrum obtained to sustain the bandwidth of the network.
Block D – Amid some controversy, no licenses were sold in Block D because the reserve price was not met.
Minow often remarked that the two words best remembered from the speech are "vast wasteland", but the two words he wished would be remembered are "public interest".
With the proposal of the Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act of 2004, it was to be determined by the Commissioner that any violator was subject to fines up to $275,000 for the first violation, $375,000 for the second violation, and $500,000 for the third and any subsequent violations.
Since the FM audience was generally older than the Top 40 AM audience, management gave DJs more independence in what they chose to play.
From 2011 to 2012, it was merged into the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry, and Water Economy.
The headquarters was originally in Gwacheon, Gyeonggi-do before relocating to Sejong City in 2019 with new buildings constructed in 2021.
Complaints regarding the practices of print media can be reported by the general public to the Press Ombudsman who determines whether a complaint should be brought before the Press Council.
Monsignor Lucio Adrian Ruiz, former head of the Vatican Internet Service, is secretary of the Dicastery and Paul Nusiner, former General Manager of Avvenire, is director general.
By 1976, TNC had developed a model for expanding the emerging state network: go to the states and offer to hire and train a staff of biologists, establish an operating center, and, two years later, let the state take over operations.
Common Types of Terrestrial Plants Four main groupings for terrestrial plants are bryophytes, pteridophytes, gymnosperms, and angiosperms, have been existing for many years and have allowed diversity into our ecosystems .
Surrounded mostly by pastures, coffee plantations and other agricultural areas, Las Cruces includes a relatively small 270 Ha forest fragment that ranges from 900–1300 m.a.s.l.
During the second stage, it was noted that the later group agreed with Steward and White, while the other disagreed.
Paleoecological methods The aim of paleoecology is to build the most detailed model possible of the life environment of previously living organisms found today as fossils.
The species is distinguished by its canoe-shaped, strongly concave leaves and loosely to densely ciliate stem surface – characteristics that had previously led Rudolf M.
Cooperation with IPCC In June 2021, IPBES and IPCC released a co-sponsored workshop report on biodiversity and climate change.
backyards, parks, gardens, botanical gardens, and remnant patches of natural habitat) can yield taxa new to science, showing that species discovery is not confined to remote wildlands.
Participating institutions, all in England, included the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, the University of Oxford, the Natural History Museum and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC).
Particle analysis Particle levels in water (or air) can be measured with a turbidity meter and analyzed with a particle counter.
Nature's contributions to people The 5th IPBES Plenary in 2017 noted that the concept of nature's contributions to people would be used in current and future IPBES assessments.
As these toxins are passed up the food chain they accumulate in fatty tissue and become increasingly concentrated in predators (see bioaccumulation).
Recent research has shown that Kolmogorov systems can exhibit complex behaviors, including the existence of strange attractors and robust permanent subsystems, implying that even deterministic predator-prey interactions can lead to unpredictable long-term dynamics.
Asia Nature Challenge also has helped focus and fill taxonomic data gaps through coordinating with projects like the Big Butterfly Count in Nepal.
Lord Howe Island, which remained uninhabited until the arrival of Europeans in the South Pacific in the 18th century, lost much of its endemic avifauna when it became a whaling station in the early 19th century.
It examines why people continue environmentally damaging behaviour, and motivates them to adopt sustainability.
See also Carpet beetle Anthrenus fuscus (commonly confused species) References External links Museumpest.net Museum Beetle Factsheet
In a number of countries, the phrase "trading as" (abbreviated to t/a) is used to designate a trade name.
Controversy Debates exist and remain unresolved over the appropriate uses of PVA in conservation biology and PVA's ability to accurately assess extinction risks.
The size, shape, and composition of an organism's body can influence its temperature regulation, with larger organisms generally maintaining a more stable internal temperature than smaller ones.
Its pygidium has a terminal anus, with two pygidial cirri being laterally inserted, as well as an unpaired appendage that is placed ventrally.
Ecosystem ecology approaches organisms and abiotic pools of energy and nutrients as an integrated system which distinguishes it from associated sciences such as biogeochemistry.
If the research leads to commercialized drugs, 50% of the royalties are invested into community development funds run by indigenous people.
On the other hand, Earth analogs may be quite numerous, at least in the Milky Way galaxy, given the large number of planets.
It encourages all actors in the area to delete unnecessary computer files, emails, unused applications, and old conversation histories on social networks, and to give a second life to digital equipment by opting for repair or reuse.
This model, and a few other well-known population models, can be explicitly derived from individual-level processes assuming contest competition and a random distribution of individuals among resources.
A 2009 study verified the original findings of the controversial 2001 study, by finding transgenes in about 1% of 2000 samples of wild maize in Oaxaca, Mexico, despite Nature retracting the 2001 study and a second study failing to back up the findings of the initial study.
Members of the sulfur-oxidizer genera Thiovulum were much more abundant and more metabolically active in Air-bell II than the Lake Room, but are dominant in both hypoxic and normoxic cave lake waters.
Climate change is also linked to several issues relating to extinct species and animals' quality of life.
Identified ecosystem consequences of losing marine biodiversity: changes in abundance and diversity have negatively impacted ecosystem productivity and resilience, and compromised water quality, fishery yields and other ecosystem services.
Modern computer techniques can yield new ways to view and analyze existing information, as well as predict future situations (see niche modelling).
Louis, she worked as a postdoctoral research assistant at University of Central Florida and as a graduate research assistant before that.
For example, the loss of wildebeest from the Serengeti led to an increase in un-grazed grass, leading to more frequent and intense fires, causing the grassland to turn from a carbon sink to a carbon source.
Theories of epigenetic inheritance have their basis in theories such as that which was posited by French scientist Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, otherwise known as Lamarckian inheritance.
Murat Eren (Meren) is a computer scientist known for his work on microbial ecology and developing novel, open-source, computational tools for analysis of large data sets.
Therefore, the selective pressures created from the modifications must remain for the next generation in order for it to be deemed ecological inheritance.
Yet in areas where there are few management initiatives in place, the abundance and diversity of marine animal populations continues to decline, mostly in direct relation to multiple human impacts.
In this case, phylogenetic niche conservatism might best be considered a form of phylogenetic signal reserved for traits with broad-scale ecological ramifications (i.e.
When US timber importer Robert Larson noticed the tree's usefulness in 1971, he conducted research over the next decade on the pesticidal properties in the neem extract called Margosan-O.
The East African Wildlife Society (EAWLS) is a membership-based non-governmental conservation organization.
Additionally, being less abundant implies limited growth, and being on the smaller end of the cell size spectrum.
Furthermore, developing models to predict the response of ecosystems to changes contributes to finding a particular management strategy.
Infonatura was a nearly identical service providing information on Latin American wildlife and ecosystems.
In oceanography, phytodetritus is the organic particulate matter resulting from phytoplankton and other organic material in surface waters falling to the seabed.
Because water buffers temperature fluctuations, terrestrial ecosystems usually experience greater diurnal and seasonal temperature fluctuations than do aquatic ecosystems in similar climates.
Rats had wiped out more than 90% of the seabirds on South Georgia, and the sponsors hoped that once the rats were gone, it would regain its former status as home to the greatest concentration of seabirds in the world.
One culture might view drought as a form of natural variability in the environment and store surplus food for these times.
This mission entails establishing agreements with governmental authorities governing the respective jurisdictions of these wilderness areas.
The site has become so popular that fishermen steal from each other, and other states apply for the next subway cars to be dumped in their waters.
For many years he had a TV show about scientific rights and wrongs in movies in the official television channel of the University of Costa Rica.
He was an early proponent of ecology, who helped the growth of plant ecology as a discipline in England, and later became Professor of Biology at Huddersfield Technical College.
(BEI) is a 501(c)(3), non-profit organization dedicated to the use of science and education to increase public knowledge of wildlife and habitat conservation and promote sustainable coexistence between people and nature.
High-forest theory Heinrich Cotta: high-forest theory In his 1817 work Anweisungen zum Waldbau (Directions for Silviculture), Heinrich Cotta posited that if humans abandoned his native Germany, in the space of 100 years it would be "covered with wood".
While irrigation return flows are point sources, in the United States they are expressly exempted from discharge permit requirements under the Clean Water Act.
Instead, pioneering species will occupy, compete for space, and establish themselves in the newly opened habitat.
Through a construction of sluices, the area is in close contact with the river Schelde: water is flowing in at high tide, and out at low tide.
Some studies also indicated that the wolves affected the grazing intensity and patterns of the elk because they felt less secure when feeding.
Fresher ditches may support rare animals, such as the great silver water beetle (Hydrophilus piceus) and the great raft spider (Dolomedes plantarius), and a wide range of pondweeds (Potamogeton and relatives).
that phylogenetic information can help "predict" species traits—to be evidence of phylogenetic niche conservatism.
See also Global Ocean Data Analysis Project (GLODAP) Joint Global Ocean Flux Study (JGOFS) World Ocean Atlas (WOA) World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE) External links GLOBEC website
The model was an improvement over earlier predator-prey models, notably the Lotka–Volterra equations, by incorporating more realistic biological assumptions and providing a qualitative analysis of population dynamics.
They believe that these have a history of independence from humans and should no longer be considered as domesticated.
Kyrou, together with his graduate and undergraduate students at the International Peace & Conflict Resolution Division of the School of International Service at The American University in Washington DC continue their effort to expand the practical and theoretical potential of Peace Ecology.
With regard to the term phylogenetic niche conservatism, many authors have taken a significant result here—i.e.
Following Marco Polo's journey through Southwestern India and China, Christopher Columbus expanded upon the "Spice Route" with the help of the Spanish Court.
Dumas and Boussingault (1844) provided a key paper that is recognized by some to be the true beginning of biogeochemistry, where they talked about the cycle of organic life in great detail.
With the addition of 'compliance' mechanisms and financial rules, these issues took up most negotiating time in the Governing Body meeting.
The COVID-19 pandemic provided the opportunity to convey eight easy recipes for a CyberCleanUp, focused on data cleaning, to the World Cleanup Day community, who were accustomed to cleaning up nature and were now confined to their homes.
Remnant natural areas are characterized by the presence of "conservative" plants and animals—organisms that are restricted to or highly characteristic of areas that have not been disturbed by humans.
Ocean in Google Earth contains a layer devoted to the Census of Marine Life that allows users to follow scientists from the Census on expeditions and see marine life and features found during the Census.
It is a strip, preferably raised, planted with grasses (bunch grasses) and/or perennial plants, within a crop field or a garden, that fosters and provides habitat for beneficial insects, birds, and other fauna that prey on pests.
Biodiversity Institute of Oxford eMonocot – a web taxonomic resource for plants of new scale and depth.
Over 22% of its land area is included in the Natura 2000 network, including 62 special conservation areas and 88 types of protected landscape natural habitats.
One of the most important genera of forams is Globigerina; vast areas of the ocean floor are covered with "Globigerina ooze", so named by Murray and Renard in 1873, dominated by the shells of planktonic forms.
Cloning Pyrenean Ibex The Pyrenean ibex (Capra pyrenaica pyrenaica) is an Iberian ibex subspecies that was the first animal to go extinct twice.
For example, in mountain gorillas, Gorilla beringei, higher ranking females had higher average food-site resident times and higher aggression and avoidance while eating than lower ranking females.
I visualize in my mind clearly and vividly how the suffering animals and plants feel in their situation.
Some critical areas of interest within macroecology include the study of species richness, latitudinal gradients in species diversity, the species-area curve, range size, body size, and species abundance.
Véloroutes voies vertes l'avenir est aux circulations douces (PDF) (in French).{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link) Réseau vert européen, actes du colloque de Lille.
Despite this reduced ATP efficiency, C4 is an evolutionary advancement, adapted to areas of high levels of light, where the reduced ATP efficiency is more than offset by the use of increased light.
In areas with strong prevailing winds, expansion through layering on the sheltered sides of plants means that they may grow preferentially on the protected sides and gradually move downwind across the landscape.
Local Futures invites communities from around the world to join in celebrating WLD by showcasing their localization efforts through hosting events such as local feasts, film screenings of Local Futures' and other localization focused films and panel discussions.
The name in Proto-Norse, erafaz and Old Norse, jarfr, lives on in the regular Icelandic name jarfi, regular Norwegian name jerv, regular Swedish name järv and regular Danish name jærv.
They are prominent throughout Australia, parts of Argentina, the Cerrado biogeographic region of Bolivia, Paraguay and Brazil, and in the Mediterranean biomes that cover the Mediterranean Basin, California, Chile, and the Cape Province of South Africa.
Career In 2014 she was a Green Talent awardee of the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
As part of this she is attached to Association Vahatra in Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar while based at the Kew Madagascar Conservation Centre on Madagascar.
However, just over half of all reactive nitrogen entering the biosphere is attributable to anthropogenic activity such as industrial fertilizer production.
Biosphere–atmosphere fluxes and ICOS From the late 1990s Ceulemans’ group participated in European carbon-flux research networks (including CARBO-EUROPE) and in national coordination of greenhouse-gas observation infrastructure.
Scientific coordination promotes integration among the working groups and iDiv members who are located throughout Central Germany.
Researchers studying New York City wastewater have also cited rats as the potential source of "cryptic" SARS-CoV-2 lineages, due to unknown viral RNA fragments in sewage matching mutations previously shown to make SARS-CoV-2 more adept at rodent-based transmission.
In this situation (called the grey goo scenario) out-of-control self-replicating nanorobots consume entire ecosystems, resulting in global ecophagy.
Journals As part of its professional development and education mission the AAVP publishes: Veterinary Parasitology — along with Elsevier References External links "American Association of Veterinary Parasitologists".
Approaches to assessing it "face high uncertainties and still require a considerable amount of empirical and theoretical research." Other authors have sought a numerical index of ecosystem health that would permit quantitative comparisons among ecosystems and within ecosystems over time.
Beetle banks are used to reduce or replace the use of insecticides, and can also serve as habitat for birds and beneficial rodents.
Drawing on the former, it emphasizes temporality and processes of becoming, while its engagement with post-structural thought leads to a focus on ontological hybridity.
For example, the intellectual property for Indian products like tamarind, turmeric, and Darjeeling tea have been taken and patented by private corporations in historically colonial countries.
Alien plants in temperate weed communities: prehistoric and recent invaders occupy different habitats.
Humans may also create an ecology of fear by reintroducing predators into areas where they no longer live; the moral philosopher Oscar Horta argues against such reintroductions, asserting that they conflict with the well-being and interests of the animals already living in the environment.
Radioecology is the branch of ecology concerning the presence of radioactivity in Earth's ecosystems.
Whilst it has been applied to water research projects in nine pilot basins, the concept is generic and can be applied to any project where accelerating change being considered as a central development objective.
Many copepods are then captured by mysidae, krill and smallest fish like the juveniles of atlantic herring - and in each step of the foodchain the toxin concentrations increase by the factor of 10.
Scholars suggest that these events might result in ecocide in that they would undermine the capacity of the Earth's biological population to repair itself.
The Census began in a formal sense with the announcement in May 2000 of eight grants totaling about 4 million US$ to create OBIS, as reported in Science magazine, 2 June.
Where the project subject is directly related to nature and environmental issues, the Foundation in individual cases also consider supporting projects outside Germany.
Instead, it focuses on diversity and it looks at how different individuals and groups operate in and adapt to their total environments through a variety of behaviors, technologies, organizations, structures and beliefs.
Examples of Antibiosis Antibiosis in biotech and medical treatment The study of antibiosis and its role in antibiotics has led to the expansion of knowledge in the field of microbiology.
History Thermal desorption first appeared as an environmental treatment technology in 1985 when it was specified in the Record of Decision for the McKin Company Superfund site within the Royal River watershed in Maine.
It is one of a number of local Biological Records Centres across Britain which together aim to give complete geographic coverage of the UK.
Climate change or other anthropogenic perturbations can decrease productivity and disrupt global biogeochemical cycles.
The plan also includes habitat stewardship and educational activities designed to involve stakeholders and inform the public.
When defined as such, phylogenetic niche conservatism is therefore nearly synonymous with phylogenetic signal.
Remnant areas are also described as "biologically intact" or "ecologically intact." Remnant natural areas are often used as reference ecosystems in ecological restoration projects.
In contrast with Bailey's methodology, Puerto Rico ecologist Ariel Lugo and coauthors identified ten characteristics of an effective classification system.
Bradley Anholt is a Canadian ecologist, currently a Canada Research Chair in experimental ecology at University of Victoria.
Invasive species can have profound effects on ecosystems by changing ecosystem structure, function, species abundance, and community composition.
The IPBES Bureau has agreed, on the basis of a proposal by the secretariat for the purposes of brand unity and brand recognition, to adopt a common pronunciation of the IPBES acronym.
Examples of bacterivores Caenorhabditis elegans Ceriodaphnia quadrangula Diaphanosoma brachyura Vorticella Paramecium Paratrimastix pyriformis Many species of protozoa Many benthic meiofauna, e.g.
This experiment was conducted on the rocky intertidal because of its accessibility and the large amount of previous research done on the species living there.
In Bhutan, it has been found growing on damp mossy logs in shady ravines within wet mixed broad-leaved forest.
McWilliam, and was fully launched on 12 July 2002 when it was formally opened by Sir Martin Doughty of English Nature.
This is not to be confused with the Boulding Award established since 1990 by the Association for Interdisciplinary Studies.
The tool can inform policy by examining to what extent a nation uses more (or less) than is available within its territory, or to what extent the nation's lifestyle and population density would be replicable worldwide.
Applications Forest sciences Since many processes in forest ecology take a long time (decades or centuries) to develop, chronosequence methods are used to represent and study the time-dependent development of a forest.
The quality of range forage is influenced by factors such as plant species, season, geographical location, and range improvement techniques.
Soils are complex systems and their complexity resides in their heterogeneous nature: a mixture of air, water, minerals, organic compounds, and living organisms.
The rectum of a freshly killed striped hyena is likewise used by homosexuals and bisexuals to attract young men.
Aeroecology research groups at both the University of Oklahoma and the University of Delaware continue to advance the development and integration of remotely sensed data to quantify, qualify, and track biological utilization of the lower aerosphere.
It was established in 1990 as the Journal of Sustainable Agriculture, obtaining its current title in 2013.
The book pioneered and popularized the attempt to explain the evolutionary mechanics behind social behaviors such as altruism, aggression, and nurturance, primarily in ants (Wilson's own research specialty) and other Hymenoptera, but also in other animals.
Regarding energy, it is an open system, with photosynthesis capturing solar energy at a rate of around 100 terawatts.
The environmental and productivity patterns around the Indian EEZ continued to be monitored and research on the productivity and fishery resources of the Andaman and Nicobar regions was also carried out.
This tends to happen when the two populations have strong reproductive isolation and significant overlap in their niche.
The framework for this monitoring should be planned before the start of the implementation, and the details included in the recovery plan.
Actual resources are those, that have been surveyed, their quantity and quality determined, and are being used in present times.
A 2023 study of megafaunal extinctions in the Junín Plateau of Peru found that the timing of the disappearance of megafauna was concurrent with a large uptick in fire activity attributed to human actions, implicating humans as the cause of their local extinction on the plateau.
From the early days, the organizations imparts lessons to the school students in the State of Lower Saxony, working as the Regional Environmental Education Center.
Boyden developed the concept of biohistory, which examines the interplay between biological and cultural processes throughout human history to understand modern environmental challenges.
To control these variables, the vertical ecosystem implements a system of sensors and warnings that inform of any anomaly of measurements in real time, allowing remote monitoring and control of the system.
These people believe that the current human trajectory puts us on a path that will eventually lead to ecophagy.
Thus, so-called rewilding has to work with its domesticated descendants, of which several breeds are hardy and robust enough to fill this gap.
Mating behavior Males release pheromones and offer nuptial gifts to females in the form of saliva secretions and nuptial prey (usually dead arthropods).
Gaia hypothesis In ecology the concept is important as an element of the Gaia hypothesis, where the system under consideration is the ecological balance of different forms of life on the planet.
It formed as a trip through Sweden and Norway starting in Lund in southernmost Sweden, passing Stockholm, Uppsala and Abisko, going down through Norway, ending in Oslo.
In a few cases (such as Newtown Harbour on the Isle of Wight, and Pagham Harbour in West Sussex) the sea walls have been breached, and the estuaries have returned to a tidal state.
This parasite matures in egrets, which are more likely to feed on infected killifish than on uninfected fish.
Legumes, a type of plant in the Fabacae family, are symbionts to some of these microbes that fix N2.
These projects were designed to generate revenue through long-term contracts linked to environmental outcomes.
Of particular interest as of 2006 is to understand the roles and functions of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in natural ecosystems.
Age The earliest evidence for life on Earth includes biogenic graphite found in 3.7 billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks from Western Greenland and microbial mat fossils found in 3.48 billion-year-old sandstone from Western Australia.
The augers can range from 12 to 36 inches in diameter for full-scale systems, with lengths up to 20 feet.
The specific name of linearis, for the plant's linear growing structure and needle-like leaves, was given by Burman (1759).
Other examples The black walnut, Juglans nigra, produces a secretion called juglone, which is toxic to a variety of flowers, herbaceous plants, and field crops.
For example, in Biosphere 2, oxygen levels declined while soil microbes produced higher levels of carbon dioxide, which resulted in higher rates of algal blooms in water bodies.
The concept was developed by the Game & Wildlife Conservation Trust in collaboration with the University of Southampton.
Mission The mission of the Society is to promote the conservation and wise use of the environment, especially in the context of wildlife conservation, by advocating rational policies and appropriate resource management regimes, in conjunction with promoting best practice and good governance.
Based on both molecular evidence and morphological similarities, the species was formally transferred to Solenostoma in 2009, along with its subspecies S.
The wetland conservation provisions have reduced wetland conversions and have helped preserve the environmental functions of wetlands, such as flood control, sediment control, groundwater recharge, water quality, wildlife habitat, to name a few.
A remnant natural area, also known as remnant habitat, is an ecological community containing native flora and fauna that has not been significantly disturbed by destructive activities such as agriculture, logging, pollution, development, fire suppression, or non-native species invasion.
The authors also found a dissociation between cognitive and affective empathy—while affective empathy was found to predict attitudes but not behavior, cognitive empathy predicted both.
Participants need not know how to identify the species; help is provided through iNaturalist's automated species identification feature as well as the community of users on iNaturalist, including professional scientists and expert naturalists.
In areas that have been dredged, drained, or dammed, the altered hydrology can destroy a remnant natural area.
According to the World Wide Fund for Nature, the following ecoregions have the highest percentage of endemic plants.
Its activities included pilot projects and research related to environmental monitoring and valuation.
Each nation can assign their own NRANK based on information from conservation data centres, natural heritage programmes, and expert scientists.
The removal of plant and infrastructure is not always part of a rehabilitation programme, as many old mine plants have cultural heritage and cultural value.
Mission The organization's mission is to promote sustainable coexistence between people and nature through scientific communication and public education.
"Exploring the Diversity of Gardnerella vaginalis in the Genitourinary Tract Microbiota of Monogamous Couples Through Subtle Nucleotide Variation".
Conserving nature's footprints The Conserving Nature's Footprints outreach project teaches adults, teenagers, and kids how to enjoy the outdoors while minimizing their impact on the environment.
Location WACN has its headquarters on the 7th Floor of Mulliner Towers, Alfred Rewane Road Lagos, 101233, Nigeria and Kemp House, City Road, London, EC1V 2NX, United Kingdom.
For example, a plant species may be highly susceptible to a particular plant disease, meaning that exposed populations invariably become extinct or decline heavily.
Functioning as a prototype for the much larger scale Everglades Construction Project, the ENRP was designed to model the process of using Stormwater treatment areas (STAs) to remove nutrients, especially phosphorus, from agricultural runoff entering the Everglades.
Polarized light pollution is caused by our choice of technology and materials and can be reduced by more thoughtfully selecting materials for construction.
It was first investigated in 2006, when it was applied to assess how similarity analysis can be used to scale out research findings within seven Andes pilot systems of basins.
Definition Sexual segregation has traditionally been defined as the differential use of space (spatial segregation) or habitat (habitat segregation) by males and females.
See also Climate change Climate change in the United States Climate change in Australia Climate change in the Arctic Climate change in Antarctica == References ==
e.g., sharks, show less thermal dependence at lower temperatures than endothermic species See also Arrhenius equation Arrhenius plot Isotonic (exercise physiology) Isometric exercise Skeletal striated muscle Tetanic contraction == References ==
Adult eastern coyotes are larger than western coyotes, with female eastern coyotes weighing 21% more than male western coyotes.
Section 4(f) of the United States Endangered Species Act from 1973 directs the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce to develop and implement recovery plans to promote the conservation of endangered and threatened species.
Kim Medley is an American environmental scientist and the director of Tyson Research Center at Washington University in St.
Most approaches pursue the cartographical delineation or regionalisation of distinct areas for mapping and planning.
It is part of the more general phenomenon of island syndrome which describes the differences in morphology, ecology, physiology and behaviour of insular species compared to their continental counterparts.
Example of BCCVL SDM outputs can be found here Another example is Ecocrop, which is used to determine the suitability of a crop to a specific environment.
These organisms can be good sources of extracellular enzymes for industrial processes such as the production of fruit juice.
It is estimated that 87 percent of wetland conversions from the mid-1950s to the mid-1970s were due to agricultural conversion.
It is an interdisciplinary concept for integrating astronomy, geophysics, meteorology, biogeography, evolution, geology, geochemistry, hydrology and, generally speaking, all life and Earth sciences.
Using the Good–Toulmin model, the number of unseen species is found using U = − ∑ i = 1 ∞ ( − t ) i φ i .
If the amount is greater than the benthic detritivores can process, the phytodetritus forms a fluffy layer on the surface of the sediment.
The ecology of fear is a conceptual framework describing the psychological impact that predator-induced stress experienced by animals has on populations and ecosystems.
Ecosystem Protection The ecosystem of this island and the other twenty-nine isles of the Cargados Carajos shoals are an internationally recognised Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF) Key Biodiversity Area.
(2002) claims that the new non-spatial definition is lacking in an ability to settle the debate about whether sympatric speciation regularly occurs in nature.
See also Agricultural expansion Groundwater-dependent ecosystems Wetland conservation References External links This article incorporates public domain material from Jasper Womach.
Genetic accommodation allows for traits that were produced by the environment to be passed on, and it gives better responses to environmental changes.
As such, much of the research conducted here focuses on agroecology or studies of forest fragmentation.
The park will be divided into four parts: Lago Nabor Carrillo, Cruickshank, Xochiaca-Churubusco and Caracol.
Tactics DGR operates as an aboveground movement and requires members to take a nonviolence pledge as of 2019, calling on others to use underground and violent tactics such as attacks on infrastructure or assassination.
The Biosafety Protocol makes clear that products from new technologies must be based on the precautionary principle and allow developing nations to balance public health against economic benefits.
Main arguments Oak and hazel Vera relies on several lines of argument based on experiments, ecology, evolutionary ecology, palynology, history and etymology.
Cave salamanders are found in Europe and the U.S., but only some of these (such as the olm and Texas blind salamander) are entirely aquatic.
Alternatively, this fusion could create a higher-level superorganism employing a low-conflict division of labor in performing informational tasks...
The International Vegetation Classification (IVC or EcoVeg) has been recently proposed but has not been yet widely adopted.
Examples of colonies Western Galicia The colonies of the Western Galicia were located in three concentrated areas, around Nowy Sącz (Stary Sącz crown lands), around Bochnia (Niepołomice crown lands), and the third in the fork of the rivers Vistula and San (crown lands of Sandomierz and Leżajsk).
The project, originally named Antshares, was founded in 2014 by Da HongFei and Erik Zhang and rebranded as Neo in 2017.
For example, the United Kingdom and Ireland are destination countries for migrants from Eastern Europe, Africa, and Asia, but are themselves source countries for immigration to other English-speaking countries.
Ottoman Empire Orientalism first arose in Early Modern France with Guillaume Postel and the French Embassy to the court of the Ottoman Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent.
Background The Decade was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly through Resolution A/RES/74/135, following the success of the 2019 International Year of Indigenous Languages.
Today, however, tools for media production and dissemination are readily available and allow for what Rheingold labels "participatory media." As participation becomes easier, the diversity of voices that can be heard also increases.
The choice of which and even how many quantities to use as base quantities is not fundamental or even unique – it is a matter of convention.
The phenomenon may also include a broader appreciation of the Turkic peoples, of whom the Turkish people are a part.
Hakim writes that young men defining their value through their body is a response to the effects of austerity on them since 2008, when the ability to create value through other means became harder.
from criminals, from paramilitaries, from an economic war", others saw Maduro's actions as a distraction from the poor socioeconomic conditions of Venezuela and a way for him to blame Venezuela's problems on Colombia.
The most careful determinations of these quantities now possible are liable to minute corrections hereafter, as more numerous observations are made and better instruments are used.
Gendered experiences Participatory culture lacks representation of the female, which has created a misrepresentation of women online.
Its aim is to find and implement long-term, sustainable remedies which will increase the availability of educational technology and resources to domestic and international communities.
It has been described as "both content and activity" meaning that web users should not just learn about the web but also about how to make their own website.
This separation, referred to as a hard boundary, contrasts the soft boundary that comes with a plurilinguistic approach.
Reporter Jeong explains within the article that due to the borrowing of this system, South Korea was able to modernize rapidly.
Therefore, socialists have often aligned themselves politically with anti-colonial independence movements, and actively opposed the exploitation of one country by another.
This phenomenon, when the rate of urbanization outpaces the rate of economic growth, is known as overurbanization.
However, individuals' public records are increasingly useful to the government and highly sought after.
James Clerk Maxwell and Elihu Thomson (through the British Association for the Advancement of Science, or BAAS) introduced the Centimetre gram second system of units in 1874 to derive electric and magnetic metric units, following the recommendation of Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1832.
Albanian community in Montenegro Montenegro is also said to be concerned about recent growth of the small Albanian community in Montenegro.
The jury evaluates candidates based on the cultural and social impact of their work, as well as its overall quality.
Like fēn, it is sometimes written as miǎozhōng (秒钟; 秒鐘; 'clock second') to clarify that someone is talking about modern seconds.
FMR provides a practice-oriented forum for debate on issues facing refugees and internally displaced persons in order to improve policy and practice and to involve refugees and IDPs in programme design and implementation.
UN agencies, such as UN Relief and Works Agency, are generally regarded as international organizations in their own right.
Those with higher educational and occupational specializations tend to move across borders in search of more diversified and complex labor markets and social opportunities.
The alternative version of the emblem shown in the episode "Coming Home" depicts a circle with three smaller circles within it.
The term foreign born encompasses both immigrants and expatriates but is not synonymous with either.
The Digital Divide Network (DDN) is an online community of activists, policymakers, researchers and concerned citizens interested in sharing knowledge to help bridge the digital divide.
On 24 July 2018, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán met with Markovic and offered to help Montenegro to build a 25 kilometres (16 mi) long fence along the border.
Countries with immigration rates above 25% tend to be wealthy countries with relatively open migration or labour laws, including Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland and the Persian Gulf states.
Conversion Relation to the metre In the 18th century, the metre was defined as the 10-millionth part of a quarter meridian.
Four CQ capabilities The authors described four CQ capabilities: motivation (CQ Drive), cognition (CQ Knowledge), meta-cognition (CQ Strategy), and behavior (CQ Action).
For example, since Hanks' win for Philadelphia in 1993, only two openly gay actors have been nominated for either Best Actor or Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards: Nigel Hawthorne in 1994, and Ian McKellen in 1998 and 2001.
The Cambridge History of Global Migrations: Volume 2, Migrations, 1800–Present (2023) Audebert, Cédric, and Mohamed Kamel Doraï, eds.
Longtime Free Library of Philadelphia director Elliot Shelkrot said that "Democracy depends on an informed population.
Scholars Esperantic Studies Foundation assists scholars and advanced students in conducting research in the fields of language planning, interlinguistics, transnational language policy, linguistic justice, and planned languages (including Esperanto).
X.509 Digital Identities allow developers to tie tokens to real-world identities which aid in complying with KYC/AML and other regulatory requirements.
Internationalization strategies Academic strategies Academic strategies focus on academic programmes, research and scholarly collaboration, external relations: domestic and cross-border and extra-curricular activities.
UK In 2007, UK online centres first marked out a date in October to bring digital inclusion to national attention.
Later research, primarily focused on face-to-face communication in various areas such as interpersonal, group, and organizational and cultural identity.
Namesake Austin O'Brien was named after Sir Austin O'Brien, the superintendent of Edmonton Catholic Schools from 1924 to 1961.
Informal organization complements the more explicit structures, plans, and processes of the formal organization.
Through such activities, the intention is that global issues will affect students' understanding of the world in a meaningful way.
Associated ideas include the knowledge economy created by economists and the learning society created by educators.
Phipps serves on the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Global Challenge Research Fund Advisory Board.
An international organization does not pay taxes, is difficult to prosecute in court and is not obliged to provide information to any parliament.
According to the theory of transnationalism, migration and other factors, including improved global communication, produce new forms of identity that transcend traditional notions of physical and cultural space.
This would allow Tenebrix to have been "GPU-resistant", and utilize the available CPU resources from bitcoin miners.
KOSMICA also counts with other activities such as educational programmes, publishing and other curated activities.
Stowe is a believer in the duty of non-resistance for the white man, under all possible outrage and peril, as for the black man ...
In the later half of the 20th century, there became increasing evidence that any pejorative meaning of the term Okie was fading; former and present Okies began to apply the label as a badge of honor and symbol of the Okie survivor attitude.
These languages did not have much influence on Australian English before the 1980s, as non-English languages had little impact on the development of Australian English, and Indigenous Australian languages were not taught in schools at the time.
Adapted theatrical performances of the novel, called Tom Shows, remained in continual production in the United States for at least 80 years beyond the 1850s (1930s).
Exoticism (from exotic) is the style or traits considered characteristic of a distant foreign country.
During the 1960s and 1970s, there was a similar phase of Indomania in the Western world, with a rise of interest in Indian culture.
It has been called Canada's national dish, though some critics believe this labeling represents cultural appropriation of the Québécois or Quebec's provincial identity.
—At the Library." See also Autodidacticism Citizen science Democratization Encyclopédie Ideagoras Intellectual property Trade secret Wikipedia and the Democratization of Knowledge, a 2021 German documentary == References ==
Additionally, each worker set aside one petal per rose which they found to be the most beautiful and those 3,291 chosen petals were then pressed onto archival paper.
The project is being jointly implemented by Poland, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden, and ICMPD in its role of the Prague Process Secretariat.
The founders developed Titcoin for the adult entertainment industry as a cash alternative payment system for performing anonymous transactions.
Since the end of the Korean War in 1953, there has been virtually no contact between the citizens of the two countries, including the many families who were divided during the turmoil that engulfed Korea after liberation from Japanese rule and during the three-year Korean War.
Philippines The Philippines is the largest exporter of nurses in the world supplying 25% of all overseas nurses.
Ensure indigenous peoples’ right to preserve, revitalize, and promote their languages, recognizing linguistic diversity as a pillar of sustainable development.
Where a child would be a British citizen but for the fact that the parents are not married, the Home Office will usually register the child as a British citizen under section 3(1) of the British Nationality Act provided that the child is still under 18.
In response to both the previous hypotheses mentioned, the Interdependent Development Hypothesis emerged with the idea that there is some sort of interaction between the two language systems in acquisition.
Canadian composer Oscar Ferdinand Telgmann and poet George Frederick Cameron wrote the song "The Bohemian" in the 1889 opera Leo, the Royal Cadet.
This relates to multiculturalism because bias is often one sided and Multiculturalism embraces cultures from across the globe.
Registered national security exchanges and automated trading systems (ATSs) are governed by federal laws and regulations aimed at protecting investors and preventing fraudulent and manipulative trading practices.
After Demorest's death, the Demorest medal system was merged with that of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), and Mrs.
The Esperantic Studies Foundation, abbreviated ESF, is a non-profit organisation initiated in 1968 by Jonathan Pool, E.
To counteract this, a system of paper wallets was developed, allowing MazaCoin to be stored and used in a more traditional, physical format.
The advent of ICT allows learners to seek information and develop knowledge at any time and any place where access is available and unrestricted.
Some polities which restrict emigration require individuals to possess an exit visa to leave the polity.
Rises in COVID-19 cases were reported in migrant and refugee camps in 2020 in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, and on Greek islands.
A child born to one Swiss parent and one foreign parent acquires the place of origin of their Swiss parent.
See also Interlinguistics Esperantology References External links Esperantic Studies Foundation official website Lernu!
At the World's WCTU Convention, held in Toronto, Canada, in October 1897, medal work was adopted as a department and Mrs.
While traditional multinational corporations are national companies with foreign subsidiaries, transnational corporations spread out their operations in many countries to sustain high levels of local responsiveness.
Being plurilingual and having pluricultural competence allows the speaker to choose words and phrases that best describe the situation, which would not be possible without having a blended context of both languages and cultures.
In 1904, for example, Beatrice Webb wrote that Japan was a "rising star of human self-control and enlightenment", praising the "innovating collectivism" of the Japanese, and the "uncanny" purposefulness and open-mindedness of its "enlightened professional elite." H.
highly particularistic attachments antithetical to those by-products of globalization denoted by the concept of "transnational civil society" and its related manifestations.
In its typology, family formation refers to cases in which "a resident national or foreigner marries a foreigner and sponsors that individual for admission or for status change", while family reunification refers to the later admission of existing family members.
Two months after the website was launched, Bill Clinton hosted a national Digital Divide Summit in Washington D.C.
Bulgaria: Bulgaria opened its borders on 1 June 2020 to EU countries, the UK, San Marino, Andorra, Monaco, Vatican, Serbia and North Macedonia citizens.
It could also involve a reorientation of academic outlook such as the pursuit of "worldmindedness" as a goal so that a school or its academic focus is considered international.
Base units equivalent to decimal divisions of the day, such as 1/10, 1/100, 1/1,000, or 1/100,000 day, or other divisions of the day, such as 1/20 or 1/40 day, have also been proposed, with various names.
In 2007 the Divided Families Foundation (previously Saemsori) lobbied to create the Congressional Commission on Divided Families, co-chaired by Rep.
Russian objective was the annexation of land; and the Russian military operations that forcibly deported Circassians were designated by Yevdakimov as “ochishchenie” (cleansing).
They break this mission into two parts: one part of their mission is "to inform media, public and policy debates" while a second part is "to generate high quality research on international migration and public policy issues".
Stellar partnered with cloud-based banking software company Oradian in April 2015 to integrate Stellar into Oradian's banking platform to add microfinance institutions (MFIs) in Nigeria.
The poll tax was effectively lifted in the 1930s following the invasion of China by Japan, and was finally repealed in 1944.
Statements In his opening statement, UN secretary-general António Guterres emphasized that the GCM is aimed in particular at the 20% (around 50 million) of illegal migrants worldwide.
Characteristics of minoritization The defining characteristic of minoritization is the existence of a power imbalance between it and the dominant language.
Supporters argue that such rules protect welfare systems, prevent abuse, or promote integration, while critics argue they can delay family life, increase dependency, and disproportionately affect poorer households and some ethnic minority groups.
On 14 July 2022, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) demanded that Hodlnaut transfer the remaining assets that were left to them, this was not revealed to the users of the platform, deposits and withdrawals remained active as per usual.
The Global Cities Dialogue on Information Society (GCD), is a non-profit international association of Mayors and High Political Representatives (HPRs) who believe that the development of the Information Society should be for the benefit of all the citizens, communities and peoples of the world.
The Los Angeles Times in May 1997 described the tiger and Turner tattoos as new at that time; however, the Turner tattoo dates to August 1995 at the latest.
The first attempt to displace the Ogiek people occurred during the 20th century, when British settlers attempted to clear the forest for tea plantations.
Implementation Organizations, including honor societies, implement inclusive excellence through: Policy Development: Modifying policies to enhance equity, such as revising honor society membership criteria to be more inclusive.
GMG was created in 2006 by then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan to better coordinate multilateral migration governance initiatives.
Further evidence to support the coastal migration hypothesis has been found in the biological viability of regions after deglaciation.
Independence Refugees International does not accept government or UN funding, allowing their advocates to be independent.
Notable Turkophiles See also Turquerie Turkology Turanism References External links The dictionary definition of turkophilia at Wiktionary
Asia Philippines Basque immigrants comprised a big part, if not most, of the Spanish expatriate population of the Philippines during the Spanish colonial period.
On 20 August 2018, the sovereign bolívar was introduced, with the government stating it would be linked to the petro coin value.
minoritized A minoritized language differs from a minority language, which means a language used by a small number of speakers, or alternately to a language with lesser numerical or political power in a given context.
Research As well as the new concept of existential migration, the research proposed a novel definition of home as interaction; that the ‘feeling of home’ arises from specific interactions with our surroundings that could potentially occur anywhere, at any time.
The W3C decided that its standards must be based on royalty-free technology, so they can be easily adopted by anyone.
Modern primitives identify with a connection between what they see as "the primitive" and authenticity; "in opposition to the corruptions of mainstream society".
Advantages and disadvantages Each quadrant is assigned a range of 100 gon, which eases recognition of the four quadrants, as well as arithmetic involving perpendicular or opposite angles.
In a Swiss passport and identity card, the holder's place of origin is stated, not their place of birth.
Migration Since its inception, each Bitchcoin is minted as an ERC-1155 token and is now backed by one of the 3,291 pressed rose petals from Meyohas' 2017 performance, Cloud of Petals.
Lee (1917-2007) are categories that demographers use to analyze human migration from former areas to new host locations.
Past Editions 2017, KOSMICA Paris, La Colonie, Paris, France 2016, KOSMICA Mexico, Cosmovitral, Laboratorio Arte Alameda, Cine Tonalá, Toluca & Mexico City, Mexico.
In the face of Dutch competition, in 1624, Souza, the Portuguese governor of Luanda, asked the Maloango to close the competing factories.
At the same time the government encouraged citizens to learn to appreciate other forms of foreign culture.
Some of the additional information includes insight into cultural differences in key symptoms of disorders as well as suggestions on how to take cultural context into account during treatment.
Students can take the technical skills they’ve learned in class to mobilize their communities, engage in advocacy and awareness campaigns, and work together to solve that specific problem.
In 1953 Davis founded the World Service Authority in Washington, DC, which sells World Passports, a fantasy passport to world citizens.
Data for ongoing events may be outdated or disputed, and may be adjusted to reflect smaller or larger figures with newer analyses and reports.
Hayek asserted that she was denied even a chance to audition for the film because “they were not hiring Latinos for Latino roles.
The British Government then looked to the newly discovered east coast of Australia to use as a penal colony.
The exact number of naturalizations is unknown but it is estimated that up to 400,000 immigrants were unlawfully naturalized in Kuwait.
After launching in New York City, NAE brought the New American Festival to Boston, Kansas City, Nashville, Houston, Oakland, and Detroit.
Priests visit Mandaean households and give them myrtle wreaths to hang on their houses for the rest of the year to protect against evil.
In 2011, it agreed to sell limited editions of Polaroid ONE600 instant cameras and Type 779 instant film in partnership with the Austrian entrepreneur Florian Kaps, who acquired the rights to manufacture 700 copies of the defunct product.
The placement of that was dislocated in English sentences because of the influence from French on English syntax.
The 'customizer' might choose to change the orientation of the bill to meet a particular cultural aesthetic.
Although they are sometimes considered separate languages, Northern and Southern Tutchone speakers are generally able to understand each other in conversation, albeit with moderate difficulty.
Manifesta, also known as the European Nomadic Biennial, is a European pan-regional contemporary cultural biennale.
The Global Forum on Migration and Development Civil Society Days is an annual meeting of civil society representatives held in conjunction with the Government Meeting of the Global Forum on Migration and Development.
Digital communication is distinct from traditional media, creating new avenues for intercultural communication.
A security offered in the IEO may violate U.S federal securities laws regardless of whether the trading platform vetted the offering.
This is a list of countries and territories by income inequality metrics, as calculated by the World Bank, UNU-WIDER, OCDE, and World Inequality Database, based on different indicators, like the Gini coefficient and specific income ratios.
In 2019, the BBC World Service radio and podcast series 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy identified blockchain as a technology that would have far-reaching consequences for economics and society.
Their crimes would today be regarded as petty misdemeanors (stealing small items or food), or are no longer in the criminal code (such as being in unresolved debt).
Back-end development, also known as server-side development, focuses on the infrastructure behind a website, including APIs, database management, and security.
As of January 2018 there were 35 partners involved in the project including Digital Communities Wales, Job Centre Plus, Cartrefi Cymru, Citizens Advice Gwynedd, Cyngor Gwynedd and BT.
Is one that has a workforce that includes people from diverse backgrounds across all departments, and which offers them equal opportunity for input and advancement within the company.
This often involves surrounding foreign cultures with mystique and fantasy which owe more to the culture of the people doing the exoticism than to the exotic cultures themselves: this process of glamorisation and stereotyping is called "exoticisation".
Three scales of the hypothesis Pollution control costs have an impact at the margins, where they exert some effect on investment decisions and trade flows.
Egyptian-Style Mosaic The Egyptian-Style Mosaic was the mosaic featured in the 1893 Baedeker Travel Guide after its emergence from the excavations.
It is also about avoiding human suffering during migration - over 60,000 migrants have lost their lives since 2000.
The Congressional Research Service estimated there were between 104,000 and 500,000 Korean Americans with North Korean family members and stated that only 80 Korean Americans had met their relatives through their kin in South Korean reunions.
The school's Ukrainian-language program began in 1983, and teaches Ukrainian language arts as well as religious studies.
Examples of dental variants listed in the ASUDAS are shovel-shaped incisors, Carabelli cusps, or hypocones.
from 1983 to 1993), the bottle and the method of its production were designed by a team led by Nathaniel Wyeth of DuPont, who received the patent in 1973.
In 2023, the Khalifa International Award received the International Design Award in Germany for its international scientific report titled "Khalifa International Award – Bridging Borders." The book won the award in the Best Design category, competing against approximately 3,578 projects.
The Metric Board was abolished in 1982 by President Ronald Reagan, largely on the suggestion of Frank Mankiewicz and Lyn Nofziger.
Common Space At the GFMD 2010 the Mexican Chair initiated a “Common Space” between civil society and governments.
As such, the Pinkerton syndrome was redefined broadly "as the tendency for Asians to be prejudiced and to discriminate in favor of white people".
VAX/VMS uses the number of 100 ns since November 17, 1858, and RISC OS the number of centiseconds since January 1, 1900.
Public libraries help further the democratization of information by guaranteeing freedom of access to information, by providing an unbiased variety of information sources and access to government services, as well as the promotion of democracy and active citizenship.
The JDC International Centre for Community Development (JDC-ICCD) is a research organization and think tank based in Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom.
CJL differs from culture shock in that it is not associated to a precise event but rather a lifelong condition linked to the particularities of an uprooted upbringing.
UNESCO Inclusive Policy Lab.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) "An Overview of Growing Income Inequalities in OECD Countries: Main Findings" (PDF).
These networks help gather information on national initiatives and contribute to the EMN by writing, reviewing reports, and/or providing expert inputs.
Additionally the team creates a set of interrelated research-and-practice-based programmes focussed on local knowledge and practices.
External links Haddad, Cameron Nadim; Mahler, Daniel Gerszon; Diaz-Bonilla, Carolina; Hill, Ruth; Lakner, Christoph; Ibarra, Gabriel Lara (17 June 2024).
In 2017, New American Economy partnered with Douglas Holtz-Eakin of the American Action Forum to publish a pro-immigration open letter signed by 1,470 economists, including six Nobel laureates.
Titone is a Fellow of the Canadian Society for Brain, Behaviour and Cognitive Science (CSBBCS) and, in 2019, she received their Richard C.
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that up to 500,000 people are in flight at any one time.
There are also situations, such as the expulsion of Germans after World War II, where ethnic cleansing has taken place without legal redress (see Preussische Treuhand v.
Therefore, the probability of an entry becoming superseded decreases exponentially as more blocks are built on top of it, eventually becoming very low.
Alternatively, if the child lives in the UK until age 10, they will have a lifetime entitlement to registration as a British citizen under s1(4) of the Act.
The next wave of immigrants from China were labourers brought in to help build the Canadian Pacific Railway, a transcontinental railway, but many defected to the goldfields of the Cariboo and other mining districts.
She traces this development through his translation of Isaac Bashevis Singer's "Gimpel the Fool" and his novels Seize the Day, Herzog, and Mr.
William Shakespeare's works show an important level of Italophilia, a deep knowledge of Italy and the Italian culture, like in Romeo and Juliet and The Merchant of Venice.
The focus of the forum was to bring awareness to the social, technological, and financial challenges facing libraries dealing with the democratization of information.
This leads to a disproportionate number of lower and minority children placed unfairly into lower track groups.
This imposed a £10 tax per Chinese person entering New Zealand, and permitted only one Chinese immigrant for every 10 tons of cargo.
Social features added to non-social sites Web sites that are not built around social interaction nevertheless add features that enable discussion and collaboration out of an interest in expanding their user bases—a trend that is projected to continue in the coming years.
From 2020 to 2022, average download speeds in the EU climbed from 70 Mb/s to more than 120 Mb/s, owing mostly to the demand for digital services during the pandemic.
WorldSkills is an international charity that organises world and national championships for vocational skills and is held every two years in different parts of the world, and also hosts conferences about vocational skills.
The increasing emphasis on the concept of the family of origin reflects the generation gap caused by rapid economic growth.
Another staging by Crude Apache Theatre Company was performed on 27 February 2013, at Dragon Hall, King Street, Norwich.
Montenegrin Prime Minister Dusko Markovic denied that his country was considering building a border fence in early July.
To have a productive and effective dialogue between disciplines requires incentives for cooperation.
Cross-national empirical verification, or rejection, of populist suspicion and fear of refugees' threat to national security and terror-related activities is relatively scarce.
However, a displaced person otherwise legally entitled to refugee status may never apply for asylum, or may not be allowed to apply in the country they fled to and thus may not have official asylum seeker status.
In 1998, UN's Minurso mission identified 42,378 voting-age adults in the camps, counting only those who had contacted the mission's registration offices and subsequently been able to prove their descent from pre-1975 Western Sahara.
External links Take the Safe Online Surfing Internet Challenge (FBI) What Is Digital Citizenship & How Do You Teach It?
Coordinating Office The Civil Society Coordinating Office was created in 2011 to assume responsibility of the overall preparation and coordination of civil society activities.
The lack of opportunities to legally access the asylum procedures can force displaced persons to undertake often expensive and hazardous attempts at illegal entry.
After the death of Professor István Szerdahelyi, she took over his chair of Esperanto and Linguistics at Eötvös University in 1987.
It is published by the University of Oxford's Refugee Studies Centre in four languages, namely English, Arabic, Spanish and French.
The Gini coefficient is a number between 0 and 100, where 0 represents perfect equality (everyone has the same income).
Providing an open standard for the data elements and algorithms of contracts provides consistency first within financial institutions and second when sharing data among organizations in the finance industry.
Canada The law of Canada divides people into three major groups: citizens, permanent residents, and foreign nationals.
It was a short step from this to argue that the Prussians and the Spartans were originally of the same race.
History Founding and beta (2019–2023) World, originally called Worldcoin, is a project started by OpenAI chief executive Sam Altman, Max Novendstern, and Alex Blania and based in San Francisco and Munich.
It declared the metric system "the preferred system of weights and measures for United States trade and commerce", but permitted the use of United States customary units in all activities.
Family of origin refers to the early social group a person belongs to in childhood, which is often a person's biological family or an adoptive family.
Students in the third and fourth grades go through "foreign language activities" for 35 hours per year, about one or two lessons per week, to learn the basics of English language.
The Serbian writer Branislav Nušić mentions the exodus of Belgrade's Muslims in his work The Sixth of April, in which the Serbs were enthusiastic about entering the city, and that people would have a feast there on St.
The family of origin is often referred to in contrast to the family of choice independently in adulthood (such as marriage, living independently, etc).
The new concept also challenges our usual definitions of being at home, the experience of foreignness, what constitutes belonging, and the nature of homelessness.
Name changes are less common today for Europeans emigrating to the United States than they are for people originating in East Asian countries (except for Japan, which no longer has large-scale emigration).
Thrace was also an important place because the population density was low and it was a frontier region.
For example, Herculean when referring to Hercules himself, but often herculean when referring to the figurative, generalized extension sense; and quixotic and diesel engine [lowercase only].
Building upon the concept of the "tragedy of the commons" in Garrett Hardin's pivotal article in Science (1968), Platt and others in the seminar applied behavioral psychology concepts to actions of people operating in social traps.
The state of mind which attributes to it these characters of a living creature is one in which the reason is unhinged by grief.
The book was produced in many lavish illuminated manuscript versions, and spawned panel paintings for cassoni and the like.
Often the aim of dodging a question is to make it seem as though the question was fulfilled, leaving the person who asked the question feeling satisfied with the answer, unaware that the question was not properly answered.
Example: "Spooner's criminal with nurse finding hiding places." (4,3,6) Solution: NOOK AND CRANNY (Spoonerism of CROOK AND NANNY).
Thus, in summarizing the plot of A Tale of Two Cities, one may write: Manette is obsessed with making shoes, a trade he learnt while in prison.
The valley receives official protection after the First World War, with the French authorities mistakenly believing that the rapid growth of the new forest is a bizarre natural phenomenon, as they are unaware of Bouffier's selfless deeds.
However, in Attic Greek, a short vowel followed by a plosive and a liquid consonant or nasal stop remains a short or "open" syllable.
Similes compare two things explicitly, in English often using the words "like" or "as", whereas metaphors often create an implicit comparison (i.e., saying something "is" something else).
Anaplodiplosis Narrative epanadiplosis, or "anaplodiplosis" (anadiplosis in Latin), from the Greek ἀνάπλωσις ("explanation") and διπλόη ("anything doubled, or divided in two") is a figure of speech that consists in completing a work, usually a novel, as one has begun it.
Pinto's Allegories of Justice and Truth by architect Giuseppe Bonici and mason Giovanni Puglisi, 1758.
Language that illustrates situations unfolding in the very opposite way from what relevant people expect is called situational irony.
Loanwords and neologisms In the context of language development, aureation can be seen as an extension of processes in which historically vernacular languages are expanded through loan words.
"Words, words, words." (Hamlet) Conduplicatio is the repetition of a word in various places throughout a paragraph.
And conflict breeds catastrophe." - Vision in Captain America: Civil War See also Antati, a form of Tamil poetry that relies upon anadiplosis Antimetabole Epanalepsis Figure of speech References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Isocrates has also noted that a speaker's character was essential to the persuasive effect of a speech.
According to Kenneth Burke, the author creates this impression by demonstrating an understanding of the audience’s needs and by "substantiating" intellectual and empathetic relationships between oneself and the audience.
This process makes the fish particularly pungent smelling and, with strong enough brine, turns its flesh reddish.
For a thousand years the Church had buttressed its theological edifice by means of an authoritative exegesis which depended on allegory as its chief medium of interpretation.
Albert Matthews, writing in the Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society in 1908, asserted that this book was the first use in literature (as distinct from newspapers) of the term Uncle Sam to personalise the United States.
It typically supplies the input enabling acceptance of apheresized forms historically, such as especially > specially.
US case law Rhetorical hyperbole is defined as "extravagant exaggeration employed for rhetorical effect" for First Amendment purposes.
Another noted example is when professional prize fight manager Joe Jacobs cried, We was robbed!, after his fighter lost a decision in 1932.
Laudatives (from Latin laudare "to praise") are words or grammatical forms that denote a positive affect.
Histories make men wise; poets, witty; the mathematics, subtle; natural philosophy, deep; moral, grave; logic and rhetoric, able to contend.
Cleary describes a boy named Alex who speaks in spoonerisms (like "shook a tower" instead of "took a shower").
An example of this is using terms like "somewhat" or "in most respects", which make a sentence more ambiguous than it would be without them.
Later, this was replaced by the more clinical abbreviation "STD" (sexually transmitted disease), which has since been replaced by "STI" (sexually transmitted infection) in an effort to de-stigmatize testing for asymptomatic patients before they show disease symptoms.
See also Astrotheology Allegorical interpretations of Genesis Religious cosmology Esoteric cosmology Biblical cosmology René Guénon == Notes ==
Other examples of notional agreement for collective nouns involve some uses of the words team and none.
Examples of transferred epithets are "the winged sound of whirling" (δίνης πτερωτὸς φθόγγος), meaning "the sound of whirling wings" (Aristophanes, Birds 1198), and Horace's "angry crowns of kings" (iratos...regum apices, Odes 3.21.19f.).
Example from Alexander Pope's Peri Bathous, Or the Art of Sinking in Poetry: Masters of this [catachresis] will say, Mow the beard, Shave the grass, Pin the plank, Nail my sleeve.
At the beginning of the story "jollity" and "gloom" are said to be contending for an empire, the Merry Mount colonists personifying jollity or mirth and the Puritans being the emblems of gloom and doom.
The consensus reads: "Children of the Corn's strong premise and beginning gets shucked away for a kiddie thriller that runs in circles".
In many cases it may be intended to start a discourse, as a means of displaying or emphasizing the speaker's or author's opinion on a topic.
And Reason public domain audiobook at LibriVox – collection in which the poem appears The Hunting of the Snark public domain audiobook at LibriVox Carroll, Lewis.
He was a prolific writer as a columnist, essayist and book reviewer, but his two dystopian novels, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four remain the focus of his legacy.
Your elbow is in the butter, sir." As a relative term, anticlimax requires a greater or lesser climax to precede it in order to have proper effect.
An astrological allegory is an allegory (a story conveying a symbolic meaning instead of a literal one) based on astrology, that is, the movement of stars and planets as seen from the Earth.
However, research has shown that cooperative behavior under social and environmental uncertainty can be enhanced when the group chooses a trustworthy leader who manages the shared resource justly.
Captatio benevolentiae (Latin for "winning of goodwill") is a rhetorical technique aimed to capture the goodwill of the audience at the beginning of a speech or appeal.
BBC Television has presented the play three times, to varying critical response: first 30 May 1939, in a production by Stephen Thomas; then 28 May 1950 (Selver translation adapted and produced by Michael Barry, with Bernard Miles as the tramp); then 19 June 1960 directed by Hal Burton.
Etymology Euphemism comes from the Greek word euphemia (εὐφημία), 'words of good omen'; it is a compound of eû (εὖ), meaning 'good, well', and phḗmē (φήμη), meaning 'prophetic speech; rumour, talk'.
After this the modern woman returns and pins up a Red Cross poster, and the modern man sees the many women of today as more or less uninspiring.
Synopsis The young female narrator, unable to sleep, walks out to an oak-grove and finds an arbour, where a goldfinch is singing in a medlar tree.
Daley why Hubert Humphrey had lost the state of Illinois in the 1968 presidential election, Daley replied "He lost it because he didn't get enough votes." Similarly when Larry King asked Putin what happened with Kursk submarine, Putin answered: 'She sank'.
would hurt his eyes, and he would escape by turning away to the things which he was able to look at, and these he would believe to be clearer than what was being shown to him".
Other poets from the Thebaid had not only become celebrities—such as Musaeus Grammaticus, Colluthus, and Christodorus—but also were part of a poetic revolution of that time.
A few examples (slightly exaggerated; apostrophes added to indicate elision): 松下さんはいますか？ Matsushita-san wa imasu ka?
Paradeigma (Greek: παράδειγμα; plural: paradeigmata) is a technique used in Ancient Greek rhetoric used to compare the situation of the audience to a similar past event, like a parable (Greek: παραβολή).
Plot The story begins in the year 1913, when a young man who is the narrator was travelling alone on a hiking trip through Provence, France, and into the Alps, enjoying the relatively unspoiled wilderness.
During the Renaissance period, imitation was seen as a means of obtaining one's personal style; this was alluded to by the artists of that era like Cennino Cennini, Petrarch and Pier Paolo Vergerio.
Cosimo I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany took festina lente as his motto and symbolised it with a sail-backed tortoise.
Rhetorical antithesis In rhetoric, antithesis is a figure of speech involving the bringing out of a contrast in the ideas by an obvious contrast in the words, clauses, or sentences, within a parallel grammatical structure.
The term "sound bite" was coined in the late 1970s, several years before the presidency of Ronald Reagan, who was famous for short, memorable phrases like, "Mr.
Grice's razor (also known as Guillaume's razor): As a principle of parsimony, conversational implicatures are to be preferred over semantic context for linguistic explanations.
Translations Within Georgia, the poem has been translated into other Kartvelian languages like Laz, Svan and Mingrelian.
Example "In necessariis unitas, in dubiis libertas, in omnibus caritas" ("In necessary things unity, in doubtful things liberty, in all things charity").
Some dialects, like Savo and Ostrobothnian, have epenthesis instead and use the preceding vowel in clusters of type -lC- and -hC-, in Savo also -nh-.
Solemnity, Banality and Sarcasm: Provenances of the Figura Etymologica in Homer, Cornell University (abstract) Clary, Todd C.
Nihon Koten Bungaku Daijiten: Kan'yakuban [A Comprehensive Dictionary of Classical Japanese Literature: Concise Edition].
Ethopoeia was a technique used by early students of rhetoric in order to create a successful speech or oration by impersonating a subject or client.
Some scholars of the canonical gospels and the New Testament apply the term "parable" only to the parables of Jesus, although that is not a common restriction of the term.
"Bathos" or "bathetic" is also used for similar effects in other branches of the arts, such as musical passages marked ridicolosamente.
"He watches afternoon repeats and the food he eats." (Blur, "Country House") "You held your breath and the door for me." (Alanis Morissette, "Head Over Feet") "I took the podium and my second trophy of the evening." (Samuel R.
Academic analysis of the concept of allusions In discussing the richly allusive poetry of Virgil's Georgics, R.
For example, an individual would oppose the idea of a "death tax" while supporting an "estate tax" despite the fact that the descriptions were the same.
Conduction and Broca's groups showed strongest evidence of TOT, performing better than the other groups in identification of initial letters.
His new continent of uncertain location, perhaps even a floating island either in the sea or the sky, serves as background for his exposure of what he described in a second edition as "A True Character of Popery and Jesuitism".
Peter Majer and Cathy Porter published a complete English translation, titled The Insect Play for Methuen Drama in 1999.
The figure therefore concerns the phrasal level, unlike narrative epanadiplosis, which concerns an entire text.
Through the process of afferent feedback, the copied bodily expressions result in the receiver experiencing the same emotions as the sender.
Furthermore, over a thousand towns and villages were renamed - an example is Lyon, which was renamed to Commune-Affranchie (Free Commune or Emancipated Commune).
As an example, a person might apologize for bumping into another person, but could write an apologia to explain why they believe a specific belief is superior to another specific belief.
There are variations of the story, but according to one version, the pungent red herring would be dragged along a trail until a puppy learned to follow the scent.
Euphemisms Euphemistic language often uses circumlocution to avoid saying words that are taboo or considered offensive.
Cold War: the Ontario Stalin Township was renamed by Ontario legislature in 1986 to Hansen Township.
Plato's dialogues Timaeus The only primary sources for Atlantis are Plato's dialogues Timaeus and Critias; all other mentions of the island are based on them.
While the two were arguing, Tellus (Earth) arose and wanted it to have her name because she had made her body available for it.
Plato has regarded imitation as a general principle of art, as he viewed art itself as an imitation of life.
Prompting Her Majesty's poses, Cecil Beaton says:"All hail sage Lady, whom a grateful Isle hath blessed." Not moving, not breathing.
The thesis achieved considerable popular interest and elaboration by many scholars in history, economics and other fields, but that thesis has been challenged.
The exercise is intended to help an individual gain deeper understanding of an issue by forcing them to consider it from the angle of their opponent, which may serve either to strengthen their argument or to help the debaters reach compromise.
(St Matthew's Gospel, 10:34) Another type involves an antimetabole (AB, BA word order), in which the contrasted words switch places: In peace you long for war, and in war you long for peace.
Zeibiri (2003: 100) notes that the term “rhetoric” has often carried pejorative connotations in the Western tradition, sometimes implying empty verbosity or manipulative discourse, which is seen as inimical to truth.
It is written as a dialogue between Plato's brother Glaucon and his mentor Socrates and is narrated by the latter.
For example, Rocko's Modern Life employed numerous innuendos over its run, such as alluding to masturbation by naming the fictional fast food chain in the show "Chokey Chicken".
It incorporates the idea of immortality based on reproduction from a tissue culture and genetic engineering, and an early mention of tin foil hats and their supposed anti-telepathic properties.
It could be that the Dissoi Logoi could have been derived from Protagoras himself, and may have even been an influence on Plato while he was writing his Protagoras.
It has been used to criticize evolutionary explanations of traits that have been proposed to be adaptations, particularly in the evolution–creation debates and in debates regarding research methods in sociobiology and evolutionary psychology.
(AV) (Psalms 20:7) And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
It can also be a remark or question, typically disparaging (also called insinuation), that works obliquely by allusion.
The truth then becomes "the elephant in the room"; no matter how obvious it is, the people most affected pretend to others and to themselves that it is not so.
Sotto voce (, Italian: [ˈsotto ˈvoːtʃe]; literally 'under the voice') means intentionally lowering the volume of one's voice for emphasis.
The United States Navy cruiser that responds to the distress call finds only two surviving sailors in the water, and the freighter is sunk by naval gunfire.
The straw man argument, an informal fallacy in which one misrepresents an opposing argument in order to further one's own, can serve as an example of misused procatalepsis.
Engine!" (Winston Churchill) "The psychologist known as Sigmund Fraud—Freud, I mean!" The words in italics are technically the epanorthoses, but all the words following the dash may be considered part of the epanorthosis as well.
Marc Anthony begins by building common cause with the audience on stage, addressing them as "Friends, Romans, countrymen..." His speech then poses a number of rhetorical questions to them as part of his refutation of Brutus' words: "Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
History This device of parallelism was first identified by the twelfth-century Jewish scholars Abraham Ibn Ezra and Joseph Kimhi, who referred to it as "kefel 'inyan be-millot shonot" ("doubling of the thought with other words").
For political purposes, framing often presents facts in such a way that implicates a problem that requires a solution.
410 BC, line 54), in the translation by David Kovacs (1998.) "Then come, sweet death, and rid me of this grief.", queen Isabel in Edward II; by Christopher Marlowe.
See also Apocope Elision Initial dropping List of phonetics topics Syncope References Notes Bibliography Alexander, James D.
It is difficult to determine if the participant is using gestures as their regular form of communication or if they are using gestures in order to help them overcome their TOT experience and retrieve the target word.
Through 18 trials total, Asch (1951) found that one third (33%) of naive participants conformed with the clearly incorrect majority, with 75% of participants over the 12 trials.
Alcmene's servant Galanthis, realizing that Lucina is outside the room using magic to prevent the birth, emerges to announce that the birth has been a success.
Tropes, again, are deviations of words from their ordinary or literal usage, while schemes are variations in the sequence, or the usual expected order, of words.
The stage directions note that Anima is dressed in white, a symbol of her purity and position as the bride of Christ.
ʿIlm al-Bayān (Science of Expression) This branch, one of the most recognized in Balagha, explores the different ways to express a single meaning using various rhetorical techniques.
in Romanian: La Paştele Cailor ("on horses' Easter") In Russian: когда рак на горе свистнет (kogdá rak na goré svístnet, "when the crawfish whistles on the mountain").
For the author, this may be an ironic way of saying that we're back where we started, and that everything that has happened in the meantime is of little importance.
Spenser varied existing epic stanza forms, the rhyme royal used by Chaucer with the rhyme pattern ABABBCC, and the ottava rima with the rhyme pattern ABABABCC.
1900 In Pan-American Exposition of 1901 in Buffalo, New York had an extensive scheme of allegorical sculpture programmed by Karl Bitter.
Uusi Aura and Åbo Underrättelser observed that the Concert Overture was received with, respectively, "great pleasure" and "sympathetic applause".
It is ruled by a scheming politician (the Wizard) who uses publicity devices and tricks to fool the people (and even the Good Witches) into believing he is benevolent, wise, and powerful when really he is a selfish, evil humbug.
Contraction of e + o or o + e leads to ou, and e + e to ei, which are in this case spurious diphthongs.
Amplification may refer to exaggeration or to stylistic vices such as figures of excess or superfluity (e.g., hyperbole).
In the Eclogue of Plutarch, there is a long list of proverbs and the first section is titled ΠΕΡΙ ΤΩΝ ΑΔΥΝΑΤΩΝ, consisting of proverbs that are built on adynaton.
History Homeoteleuton (homoioteleuton) was first identified by Aristotle in his Rhetoric, where he identifies it as two lines of verse which end with words having the same ending.
Ancient Greek Tmesis in Ancient Greek is something of a misnomer, since there is not necessarily a splitting of the prefix from the verb; rather the consensus now seems to be that the separate prefix or pre-verb reflects a stage in the language where the prefix had not yet joined onto the verb.
Hypozeuxis is a rhetorical term for an expression or sentence where every clause has its own independent subject and predicate.
The work has been studied for its rhetorical style and has influenced discussions of Arabic literature and balāghah.
They endeavored to conceal the absurdities of the ancient [Pagan] religion by casting over its fables the veil of allegory, and thus represented them as founded upon immortal truths...
Skeat (ed.) Chaucerian and Other Pieces, Edited from Numerous Manuscripts…Being a Supplement to the Complete Works of Geoffrey Chaucer Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1897.
Psychological research and findings The Pollyanna principle was described by Margaret Matlin and David Stang in 1978 using the archetype of Pollyanna more specifically as a psychological principle which portrays the positive bias people have when thinking of the past.
Publications There are a large number of international publications (books and scientific articles) that deal with the importance of the moral compass in general, in politics, business, religion, etc.
Accumulatio is a figure of speech, part of the more general group of enumeratio, in which the statements made previously are presented again in a compact, forceful manner.
This concept was first formulated by Dionysius of Halicarnassus in the first century BCE as imitatio, and has since dominated for almost two thousand years the Western history of the arts and classicism.
Covered in the poem are the Spanish match, the Gunpowder Plot, the murder of Thomas Overbury, and the assassination of Buckingham.
Jus' keep me shovin' all over the country all the time." Other examples, such as him and going to shown in the table above, are generally used only in fast or informal speech.
These may include: metaphor, stories, tradition, slogan, jargon, catchphrase, artifact, contrast or spin.
The Ride of Her Life: The True Story of a Woman, Her Horse, and Their Last-Chance Journey Across America.
Or, The Sulphitic Theory Expounded and Exemplified According to the Most Recent Researches Into the Psychology of Boredom: Including Many Well-known Bromidioms Now in Use.
The text is also useful in that it provides a more precise (although specialized) definition of the concept: "any cognitive situation in which the threat of inconsistency confronts us" (1).
The Adventures of Uncle Sam, in Search After his Lost Honor is an allegorical book published in 1816 written by Frederick Augustus Fidfaddy.
This continuum of the level of revulsion is apparent in certain dysphemisms such as shitter for 'toilet', to come for 'to ejaculate', and puke hole for 'tavern' or 'toilet'.
Comedian Jane Ace was notorious for her spoonerisms and other similar plays on words during her time as main actress of the radio situation comedy Easy Aces.
Story of Cura While crossing a river, Cura gathered clay and, engrossed in thought, began to mold it into a man.
Furthermore, Geoffrey of Vinsauf states that any such repetition must be done so modestly, and not excessively.
In English, a word is often clipped down to a closed monosyllable and then suffixed with ‑y or ‑ie (phonologically ).
Plato is known to have freely borrowed some of his allegories and metaphors from older traditions, as he did with the story of Gyges.
Novels that are written entirely in the historical present include notably John Updike's Rabbit, Run, Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall and Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale.
Scientific research Spoonerisms are not only observed in popular culture but have also been studied extensively in laboratory settings.
When artists consciously mix the very serious with the very trivial, the effect is of surreal humour and the absurd.
See also List of films and television shows about the American Civil War References External links Woman at IMDb
This term also refers to a figure of speech in which an animal or inanimate object is ascribed human characteristics or is spoken of in anthropomorphic language.
This can be used to humorous effect in comedy, where a character will seem bent on making it impossible to maintain the polite fiction.
Wellerisms contain the speech of one speaker, but dialogue proverbs contain direct speech from more than one.
Savarkar borrowed the phrase, along with quotations from Shakespeare, for his pamphlet Hindutva (1923), which celebrated Hindu culture and identity, asking whether Indians were willing to 'disown their seed, forswear their fathers and sell their birthright for a mess of pottage'.
The same article goes on to state that, "A former Apprentice contestant feels similarly manipulated, saying he believed producers had already decided who they wanted to win when he was eliminated." 9/11 Commission 9/11 Commission member Lee H.
without words where lips must touch each other, effectively excluding the letters B, F, M, P and V from the text of the improvised songs.
Politics From 1958 to 1960, the Republic of Upper Volta was led by a high commissioner: Max Berthet (11 December 1958 to February 1959), Paul Masson (February 1959 to 5 August 1960).
A love–hate relationship may develop when people have completely lost the intimacy within a loving relationship, yet still retain some passion for, or perhaps some commitment to, each other, before degenerating into a hate–love relationship leading to divorce.
Words such as circumdare ("to surround") are split apart with other words of the sentence in between, e.g.
In rhetoric, it refers to a device in which there is a descending order of words or phrases, either in order of importance, dignity or time, and either abrupt or gradual.
Examples UK MPs have been criticised for marking their own homework by self-regulating their own expense claims and behaviour.
1.240.14–241.12 Schrad.) or Pherecydes of Syros, both of whom are presumed to be active in the 6th century B.C.E., though Pherecydes is earlier and is often presumed to be the first writer of prose.
In rhetoric, an argumentum ad captandum, "for capturing" the gullibility of the naïve among the listeners or readers, is an unsound, specious argument designed to appeal to the emotions rather than to the mind.
The term initially garnered political attention in online discussions about defunding the police in 2020, but it has come to greater prominence in critique of media practices relating to Donald Trump in the 2024 United States presidential election.
464), producing "frame resonance", which is key to the process of a group transitioning from one frame to another (although not all framing efforts are successful).
As the merciful David succeeds the unjust Saul and is rewarded by God with the kingdom of Israel, so too, with the help of God, will William be rewarded a kingdom; being either or both the Netherlands, and the kingdom of God.
Another 19th-century example can be found in Thomas Carlyle's 1829 essay Signs of the Times: We have more Mathematics than ever; but less Mathesis.
He also orders that Edgar cut his hair in the "pumpkin shell" style in order to reflect the Puritans' strictness.
The opposite of catacosmesis is auxesis when used to refer to climax, wherein a series of clauses has increasing, rather than decreasing, force.
In linguistics, synesis (from Greek σύνεσις 'unification, meeting, sense, conscience, insight, realization, mind, reason') is a traditional grammatical/rhetorical term referring to agreement (the change of a word form based on words relating to it) due to meaning.
"Consonantal alliteration" is usually distinguished from other types of consonance and has different effects, for instance, it can increase the memorability of a passage and is often employed in slogans.
For example, saying "it has been decided" without stating by whom, and citation of unidentified "studies" or "publications" by "authorities" or "experts," provide further scope for weaseling.
Where was the Huxley, the Orwell, the Scott Fitzgerald, or even the Tom Wolfe, Jay McInerney, or Brett Easton Ellis to record this new world?
When she believes that he may have deserted her, she leaves to Yorkshire with Artemisia and is proposed to by Artemisia's nephew, Eugenio; she quickly refuses.
It can take the form of an enumeration of concrete details to such an extent that one can say that it crosses the conditions of form proper to a figure of speech.
Wellerisms, named after sayings of Sam Weller in Charles Dickens's novel The Pickwick Papers, make fun of established clichés and proverbs by showing that they are wrong in certain situations, often when taken literally.
Ware and Linkugel (1973) identified four common strategies seen in apologetic discourse, which are denial, bolstering, differentiation, and transcendence.
It was first used by Alexander Herzen in 1857 and then widely used until the 1970s, sometimes modified with doomsday weaponry: "Genghis Khan with nuclear bomb", "with hydrogen bomb", "with [ballistic] rockets".
This technique, however, can lead to biased reporting when a sound bite is selected for sensationalism, or is used to promote the point of view of one individual or group over another.
Definition Utamakura is a category of poetic words, often involving place names, that allow for greater allusions and intertextuality across Japanese poems.
By this deliberate reversal, hysteron proteron draws attention to the important point, so giving it primacy.
They recommend an interest in an object, rather than state that the interest already exists." These words have the tendency to encourage future actions, to lead the hearer towards a decision by affecting his or her system of interests.
One of these, Lo Spaccio de la Bestia Trionfante (The Expulsion of the Triumphant Beast, 1584), was famously reprised by James Joyce.
It is a figure of speech or discourse that is an incomplete sentence, consisting of a subject or complement without the requisite object.
Aristotle connected this skill with virtues like courage, wisdom, and generosity as ways that the speaker or any other person can use to appeal to his/her or their audience's emotions.
Examples of the original meaning include using "militate" for "mitigate", "chronic" for "severe", "travesty" for "tragedy", "anachronism" for "anomaly", "alibi" for "excuse", etc.
Notable allegorical sculptures The four cardinal virtues, by Maximilian Colt, on the monument to Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury in Bishop's Hatfield Church in the English county of Hertfordshire, before 1641.
Examples "Where affections bear rule, their reason is subdued, honesty is subdued, good will is subdued, and all things else that withstand evil, for ever are subdued." — Thomas Wilson "...
When the capital is used to refer specifically to the country's government, the figure of speech is a metonymy rather than a pars pro toto.
It can also be used in reverse to make the initial term seem better by comparison: "A isn't perfect but B is worse and C is worst." Examples From the First Letter to the Corinthians: "There are three things that will endure: faith, hope, and love.
History Ramón Gómez de la Serna is considered the father of the greguería, which he defined as humor plus metaphor.
For example, the code name of "Mogul" is used by the United States Secret Service to refer to the President of the United States Donald Trump.
This observation was named a panchronistic tendency by Stephen Ullmann since he saw the lowest levels of sense having the poorest vocabulary.
Another common example is a couple that has had an argument, after which one of them absents themselves from a subsequent social gathering, with the other claiming that they are ill, especially if this is a regular occurrence.
Quail, I can't stop; I've got to see a man about a dog." Time magazine observed that the phrase was the play's "claim to fame".
In the work of the poet Ennius, the literal splitting of the word cerebrum creates a vivid image: saxo cere comminuit brum "he shattered his brain with a rock." Old Irish Tmesis can be found in some early Old Irish texts, such as Audacht Morainn (The Testament of Morann).
Dialogue proverbs Wellerisms are similar but not identical to dialogue proverbs, as shown by Kapchits and Unseth.
Bitextual work (or bi-textual work) is a form of writing in which a single sequence of words yields two or more distinct interpretations by exploiting lexical polysemy and structural ambiguity.
Woman, also known by its French title L'Éternelle Tentatrice is a 1918 American silent drama film directed by Maurice Tourneur, an allegorical film showcasing the story of women through points in time.
Hypophora The hypophora is a hyponym of a rhetorical question, characterized by the speaker posing a question which is immediately answered by the speaker.
The manipulation of historical record and collective memory are at the centre of Oceania's political system Ingsoc.
The initial inferior options make the final term seem still better by comparison than it would appear in isolation: "X is good, Y is better, Z is best" is a standard format.
An example of a parechesis is: "He persuades the Pithian (πείθει τὸν Πειθίαν)." Hermogenes of Tarsus discusses parechesis in his work On the invention of arguments (Περὶ εὑρέσεως).
Sculptor Timothy Schmalz created a series of 100 sculptures, one for each canto, on the 700th anniversary of the date of Dante's death, and many visual artists have illustrated Dante's work, as shown by the examples above.
The repetition of initial consonant sounds in neighboring words (as wild and woolly, threatening throngs) is also called head rhyme or initial rhyme.
Although the tomb was pillaged, it still contained, in addition to the aforementioned artifacts, Byzantine coins, gold and jeweled ornaments, the latter including a "striking gold placque" inlaid with pearls and amber.
When the deputy minister of census Yang Yang (楊暘) also pointed this out, Yang was sent out of the capital.
Contents Introduction At the beginning of the text, Tryambaka invokes Ganadhipati, Sarasvati, and his teachers.
Today, the four Eastern Orthodox patriarchates—Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch and Jerusalem—alongside their Western counterpart, Rome, are regarded as "senior" (Greek: πρεσβυγενή, presbygenē, "senior-born") or "ancient" (παλαίφατα, palèphata, "of ancient fame") patriarchates.
Yang Chang's son Yang Yun (楊惲; died c.54 BC) helped to disseminate his maternal grandfather's magnum opus: the Shiji.
Indeed, the story is told through increasingly erratic entries in Myra's own personal diary and recordings on events given by Buck Loner.
Villages and neighbourhoods that are believed to originate from zadrugas can often be recognized by the patronymic suffixes, such as -ivci, -evci, -ovci, -inci, -ci, -ane, -ene, etc., based on family names.
Quan, thankful for the suggestion, wanted to give 500 of the surrendered Dangxiang to Cui as personal property, however Cui declined, pointing out that his proposal was for the state's benefit, not personal benefit.
With Emperor Yuan's brother Xiao Ji the Prince of Wuling also having claimed imperial title and attacking him from the west, Emperor Yuan pardoned Wang Lin, and Lu surrendered to Wang Lin.
Although a Christian community had existed in Damascus since apostolic times (Acts 9), the see continues to be known as the Patriarchate of Antioch.
Zheng counterattacked with his ally Tang Hongfu (唐弘夫), and they dealt the Qi forces a major defeat at Longwei Slope (龍尾陂, in modern Baoji).
Starting in 842 he was made governor of a succession of small poor rural prefectures, first Huangzhou, then Chizhou and Muzhou.
External links Chart and explanation of patrilocal residence Archived 2006-02-06 at the Wayback Machine
Du suggested that new Tang emissaries be sent to Nanzhao to mourn the death of Qiulong's father Fengyou (豐祐) and inform Qiulong that as soon as he changed his name, Tang would sanction his succession.
In August 2021, Yobidoyobi co-founder Konstantin Zimen said he and his business received a barrage of threats and abuse after Vladislav Pozdnyakov shared a Yobidoyobi ad featuring a black man on his social media pages and called for action to be taken.
His new base of Kedun was about 1500 km northwest of Beijing, probably along the Orkhon River in Bulgan Province.
Thus the rebel forces in Hedong lacked all middle and lower management, and Wei Gu and Fan Xian stayed put, training their troops while rebellion spread in adjacent commanderies.
In the tomb there is an epitaph stating the proximity of her tomb to the mausoleum of Gao Huan, paramount general of Northern Wei, as well as the founder of Eastern Wei.
He resigned the chancellor position on account of illness in 857, and was made a senior advisor to the Crown Prince.
He is best known as the writer of sensual, lyrical quatrains featuring historical sites or romantic situations, and often on themes of separation, decadence, or impermanence.
With the Byzantine–Bulgarian Treaty of 927, which affirmed the victory of the First Bulgarian Empire over the Byzantine Empire in the War of 913–927, the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople recognized the Bulgarian Patriarchate.
He also criticizes the use of the terms misandry and reverse sexism and the motives of the men's rights movement.
His grandfather was Wang Xiong (王雄; fl.220-235), a regional inspector (cishi) of You Prefecture (幽州刺史) under Cao Wei.
An example of son preference is demonstrated by the traditions of the Igbo people of Nigeria: "The status of a man is assessed in part by his number of sons.
With this, Hanpu became the chief of the Wanyan and his descendants became formal members of the Wanyan clan.
In summer 881, with Zheng, Tang Hongfu, Cheng Zongchu (程宗楚), Wang Chongrong, Wang Chucun, and Tuoba Sigong converging on Chang'an, Huang abandoned it.
Emperor Shengzong told her to hide her resentment towards Xiao Pusage since Xiao Pusage raised Zongzhen as a child.
His military achievements were all the more remarkable due to his physical weaknesses; it was recorded that he was unable to ride a horse or shoot an arrow with significant force.
He was appreciated by the likes of Wang Meng and Liu Tan and was entrusted with handling various military affairs.
There are also several autocephalous churches that function similarly to patriarchates, even though they do not use the patriarchal title.
Hou's strategist Wang Wei suggested to Hou that Wang Sengbian should be detained, but Hou decided against it and allowed Wang Sengbian to return to Jingling.
Meanwhile, as Pei was also serving as chief imperial censor by this point, he submitted an indictment against Yuwen for corruption and improper association with others, and he was demoted to be the sheriff of Pingle County (平樂, in modern Guilin, Guangxi).
During Emperor Taizong's reign Emperor Taizong honored Empress Shulü as empress dowager, and it was said that she made the key decisions for the state.
In 834, he was recalled to government service as the military governor of Zhongwu Circuit (忠武, headquartered in Xuchang, Henan).
The Memorial for Yelü Yanning (耶律延寧), also known as the Epitaph for Yelü Yanning, is the oldest known Khitan inscription of significant length and currently the oldest major written attestation of a Mongolic (or Para-Mongolic) language.
He became a consultant and joined the group of scholars who were ordered to prepare a fourth installment of the Record of Han.
Zheng Lang (Chinese: 鄭朗; died 857), courtesy name Yourong (有融), was a Chinese historian and politician during the Tang dynasty, who served as a chancellor during the reign of Emperor Xuānzong.
Summary In The Gender Knot, Johnson responds to men's and women's experiences in living with gender inequality.
During Emperor Wuzong's reign In 842, by which time Emperor Wenzong's brother Emperor Wuzong was emperor, there was an occasion when Zheng Lang, still then serving as Jianyi Daifu, along with his colleague Gao Shaoyi (高少逸), advised Emperor Wuzong that he was spending too much time in hunting.
The group was created by Vladislav Pozdnyakov in 2016 as a private community on the social network VKontakte.
In 687, he was made Nayan (納言)—the head of the examination bureau of government (鸞臺, Luantai), also a post considered one for a chancellor.
After Sima Rui, then the Prince of Langye, became in charge of the military operations in the area in 307, both Wang Dun and his cousin Wang Dao became key assistants to him, and it was said at the time that the domain was ruled equally by the Simas and the Wangs.
Meanwhile, it was said that the senior chancellor Zhang Yue despised Yuwen, but also did not view him as a threat, despite warnings from his subordinate Zhang Jiuling.
Pei, not wanting to carry this out, tried to deflect Zhu's recommendation by stating, "Zhang Tingfan had great accomplishments and should be a military governor.
During Emperor Gaozu's reign During the reign of Tang's founder Emperor Gaozu, Cui Dunli served as a mid-low-level official at the legislative bureau of government (中書省, Zhongshu Sheng).
Reception Carol Tavris writes in the Wall Street Journal that "[Rosin] avoids the journalistic habit of doing 'spotlight interviews' with individuals selected to support the writer's hypothesis, a practice she knows is misleading.
He privately told Dai that he had a son, Wang Tanheng (王曇亨), who was not known to the public yet and was hiding at his wet nurse's home.
Wang captured Liu, and also suppressed the aborigines of the region, and thereafter became well known.
He was also given the designation of Tong Zhongshu Menxia Sanpin (同中書門下三品), making him a chancellor de facto.
Oaks Presiding Bishop of the Church Of God In Christ Inc.: John Drew Sheard, Sr Executive Minister of Iglesia ni Cristo: Eduardo V.
When the wedding occurred, Emperor Wen authorized that the ceremony be as grand as if a princess were to be married.
According to the Book of Sui, Yang Jian the founding emperor of the Sui dynasty, was born to the Yang clan of Hongnong, and was a descendant of Yang Zhen.
Other versions have been produced on screen and television, for example, Chokher Bali by Rituparno Ghosh in 2003, and in the television series Stories by Rabindranath Tagore in 2015 by Anurag Basu.
From the Tang dynasty to the early Song dynasty, there were a total of ten men from the Lu family who served as chancellors in the imperial government.
Much of the Dangxiang army surrendered, and Quan initially wanted to slaughter them, stopping only after Cui pointed out that it was unfair to slaughter them all and also that this may cause a violent reaction.
He subsequently recovered slightly such that he could meet with Emperor Xizong with some physical assistance, and Emperor Xizong ordered that he be exempted from bowing to the emperor.
Inner kins (simplified Chinese: 宗亲; traditional Chinese: 宗親; pinyin: zōngqīn) is the kinship clan in Chinese patriarchy.
Arsen (1006–1008) -- Արսէն Mesrob (1008) -- Մեսրոպ Arsen (1008–1038), restored—Արսէն unknown Simeon I (1090–1109) -- Սիմէոն Ա.
While Pope Francis reinstated the historical title "Patriarch of the West" in 2024, it had been officially dropped by Pope Benedict XVI in 2006 and is not commonly used to describe the Pope's role within the Latin Church.
It argues that through this, women are excluded from the metaphysical covenant and the earthly covenant community, leading them to solely access God and the holy community as mothers.
In 728, Emperor Xuanzong gave Yuwen the additional posts as the examiner of Hebei Circuit (河北道, roughly modern Hebei, Beijing, and Tianjin) as well as deputy minister of census.
Around 1895, two four-family associations had organized: the San Francisco Lung Kong Association and the San Francisco Mu Tin Association (later changing its name to Ming Yee Association).
Lu initially declined, stating, "Civil service matters should be in the hands of the minister of civil service, and for me to handle them would be to exceed my authorities." Emperor Taizong insisted, stating, "I trust you.
William Wilson Chief Apostle of the New Apostolic Church: Jean-Luc Schneider President of the General Conference of the Seventh-day Adventist Church: Elder Erton Köhler President of the Baptist World Alliance: Tomás Mackey President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Dallin H.
After the blocking of Male State and two more of his communities on VKontakte, Pozdnyakov began to actively maintain his channel on Telegram, a messaging service, and has garnered more than 80 thousand subscribers.
The term was particularly used by writers associated with second-wave feminism such as Kate Millett; these writers sought to use an understanding of patriarchal social relations to liberate women from male domination.
Reasons Agrarian society Prior to globalization, during the Song, Ming and Qing dynasties, China was an agrarian society.
A lineage is a corporation, in the sense that members feel to belong to the same body, are highly conscious of their group identity, and derive benefits from jointly owned property and shared resources.
In the West, the female genital organs were named in relation to men’s, with ovaries deemed as ‘male testicles,’ and the uterus seen as the ‘female scrotum.’ It was not until the 17th century when female sex organs received the names we know today.
The Patriarchate of Constantinople was added in the 4th century, and the Patriarchate of Jerusalem followed in the 5th century.
In the text, she theorizes that women have won the gender war, having "pulled decisively ahead [of men] by almost every measure." Rosin uses the shift in the American economy as one of her main sources.
When Emperor Xuānzong received report of this, he sent the chancellor Cui Xuan to Huainan to serve as its military governor, and made Du a senior advisor to the Crown Prince, but with his office at the eastern capital Luoyang.
340 In a year between 338 and 340, nearly one hundred bishops met at Alexandria, where they declared in favor of Athanasius, rejecting the charges brought against him by the Eusebian faction at the First Synod of Tyre.
Background Cui Dunli was born in 596, originally named Cui Yuanli, His family was from "the second house of Boling" of the prominent Cui clan of Boling, although by the end of Northern Wei it had already relocated to Yong Prefecture (雍州, roughly modern Xi'an, Shaanxi).
Midas has his courtiers sacrifice to the gods to see if he can be relieved of his curse; Bacchus relents and tells him to bathe in the river.
It was said that Yuwen tried to further increase revenues by establish special offices, which caused the previously commissioned officials to have much less responsibilities.
Administrative and military career Huan Yi was from Zhi County (銍縣, in present-day Suixi County, Anhui), Qiao Commandery and was a kinsman to the general Huan Xuan (桓宣).
Excess male population has also been correlated with an increase in the popularity of pornography and commercial sex.
He was later recalled to Chang'an to serve as the minister of public works (工部尚書, Gongbu Shangshu) and the director of finances.
In reality, Shan Jian managed to escape to Xiakou (夏口; in present-day Wuhan, Hubei) while Wang Ru was forced to lift his siege due to the Han general, Shi Le.
According to Livingstone, social behavior drives evolution rather than the other way around: "Contrary to Goldberg, I do not believe that a genetic or physiological change will occur first and then cause social or behavioral change.
Mark Strange Archbishop of Armagh, Primate of the Church of Ireland: John McDowell Primate of the Anglican Church of Canada: The Most Rev.
In 1924, another building was acquired at 924 Grant Avenue, named the "Ming Yee Building", in which the San Francisco Lung Kong Association has resided ever since.
He was a staunch Confucianist and was alarmed by the growth of Xuanxue philosophy among the court ministers.
Shang would often visit the General Who Maintains the West, Yu Yi at Wuchang to discuss with him about military affairs.
Միսիրցի Mesrob (1454–1461) -- Մեսրոպ Bedros (1461–1476) -- Պետրոս Mgrdich Elovtzee (1476–1479) -- Մկրտիչ Ելովցի Abraham VI Pereeahtzee (1479–1485) -- Աբրահամ Զ.
Daughter preference or son preference is sometimes expressed by higher levels of household investment in offspring of preferred gender.
Prominent members Zhou Fang, Jin general and official Zhou Hui, maternal grandfather of Prince Sima Tan and in-law of Emperor Wu of Jin Zhou Fu, Jin official Zhou Yi, Jin official == References ==
She accused it of spawning what she sees as the excesses of women's studies departments, especially for attacks on the alleged pervasive sexism of the male authors of the Western canon.
She gave her great-grandfather the honorable title of Prince of Lanling (蘭陵郡王), father the title of King of Qi (齊國王) and made her brothers kings, disregarding Liao rules.
Tryambaka also states that a woman's male relatives - including her husband - cannot use her property without her permission.
The prevalent forms of dynastic succession in Europe, Asia and parts of Africa were male-preference primogeniture, agnatic primogeniture, or agnatic seniority until after World War II.
Basilica The most massive element of the complex is a church with nine (then eleven) naves, from which the largest measures 12.80 metres and eleven bays whose pillars have Corinthian capitals, the barrels of the columns are made out of green marble and the bases out of white marble.
Later that year, he was made Neishi (內史)—the head of the legislative bureau of government (鳳閣, Fengge) and a post considered one for a chancellor.
By virtue of this multi-provincial oversight, the sees of Rome, Alexandria and Antioch were already exercising a "supra-metropolitan" jurisdiction, later termed as Patriarchates.
The Lung Kong Tin Yee Association, also known as the Four Families (四姓), is a worldwide ethnic fraternity, primarily a four-surname clan association for overseas Chinese.
Son preference in China is a gender preference issue underpinned by the belief that boys have more value than girls.
Distraught after Ramage tries to force himself on her, Ann Veronica temporarily abandons her studies and devotes herself to the cause of women's suffrage; she is arrested storming Parliament and spends a month in prison.
In 856, he was further given the designation Tong Zhongshu Menxia Pingzhangshi (同中書門下平章事), making him a chancellor de facto.
They gather people who share the same surname belonging to the same kin, who often have the same geographical origin (ancestral home), and therefore the same patron deities.
Furthermore, prostitution was defined in a range of ways and the "reality was that hard economic times meant that for many women, prostitution was the only way to make ends meet.
When Emperor Wen initially stated that he was going to give him the rank of Yitong (fourth rank, first division), Li Min therefore said nothing.
A male heir (sometimes heirs male)—usually describing the first-born son (primogeniture) or oldest surviving son of a family—has traditionally been the recipient of the residue of the estate, titles, wealth and responsibilities of his father in a patrilineal system.
There are records on the association in the Library at Lambeth Palace, the seat of the Archbishop of Canterbury in London, and in the National Archives.
One of the Northern dynasties during the era of the Northern and Southern dynasties, it ruled the western part of northern China from 535 to 557 AD.
Gold neck rings, symbolizing the highest status of a successful feast host have been found in female graves indicating that women continued the practices traditionally upheld by men.
The heir and the spare: Impact of birth order on risk attitudes, discount rates, and behaviors (Order No.
Although smaller than the Eastern Wei in territory and population, Western Wei was able to withstand the attacks from the eastern empire, most notably at the Battle of Shayuan in 537.
She would eventually become the de facto ruler of the Manchu Qing Dynasty in China for 47 years after her son's death.
While the officials Yuan Qianyao and Meng Wen (孟溫) successively served as the mayors of Jingzhao, both of them respected his abilities.
Despite her young age, she is credited with playing a pivotal role in Northern China's mid-sixth-century politics.
Each chapter traces a different aspect of "the development of the leading ideas, symbols, and metaphors by which patriarchal gender relations were incorporated into Western civilization (Lerner 10).
The Patriarch of Alexandria (also known as the Bishop of Alexandria or Pope of Alexandria) is the highest-ranking bishop of Egypt.
During Emperor Wenzong's reign During the Kaicheng era (836–840) of Emperor Muzong's son Emperor Wenzong, Zheng Lang was made an imperial chronicler (起居郎, Qiju Lang).
The constraints of the patriarchal bargain are reinforced by immigration policies which require the husband's involvement in the wife's citizenship application, and which reward reproductive labour with simpler routes to citizenship.
Plot The story takes place in a world which diverged from ours in 1888, when a mysterious explosion killed Queen Victoria and her entire immediate family, with the exception of Duke "Eddy" of Clarence, who survived as a brain damaged cripple and was thus unable to succeed to the throne.
Figures like JD Vance have been associated with a resurgence of neopatriarchal ideas, advocating for a return to traditional family structures and gender roles.
In October 2022 the Supreme Court of India strongly criticized the utilization of the "two-finger test" in rape and sexual assault cases and urged the central government to take immediate steps to cease the practice.
It was said that the environment of Yan Prefecture was humid and unhealthy, causing Yuwen to be ill.
Family Younger Brothers Lu Cheng'en (盧承恩) Lu Chengti (盧承悌) Lu Chengji (盧承基) Lu Chengye (盧承業) Lu Chengtai (盧承泰) Lu Chengli (盧承禮) Lu Chengfu (盧承福) Sons According to New Book of Tang vol.
Even a man as benevolent as the Duke of Zhou executed his brothers, the lords of Guan and Cai, for their crimes.
Wang Cheng uncovered Meng Jiu's treachery and persuaded Sima Ying to execute him, much to the joy of many.
Two out of the five major branches remained in Hong Kong (Ping Shan and Kam Tin) while the other three moved back to mainland China.
He was married to Princess Le'an (乐安公主), daughter of Gao Cheng, in 541, and is the last known khan of the Rourans.
Yang Jun (楊俊) (571 – 4 August 600), nicknamed Azhi (阿祇) and formally known as Prince Xiao of Qin (秦孝王), was an imperial prince of the Chinese Sui dynasty.
In spring 608, Emperor Yang conscripted over a million men to construct the Yongji Canal (永濟渠), from the Yellow River to Zhuo Commandery (涿郡, roughly modern Beijing).
Shen Youzhi, however, informed Emperor Ming of the plot, and Emperor Ming then had those rebel officers executed, except for Shen, whom he began to trust and made him a guard commander again.
Rather than waiting for Xiahou Dun's forces to crush the Hedong rebels, Du Ji chose to use subterfuge.
Because Yao, Lu, and Cui each had their strengths and weaknesses, Li Congke could not decide on whom to commission.
In 616, after Shu's death, Emperor Yang made Yuwen Huaji protector-general of the right camp (右屯衛将軍) and Zhiji supervisor of indequity (将作少監).
Goldberg next provides expert witnesses from several disciplines regarding correlations between behaviour and the hormone testosterone, which are known to be causative in several cases, including dominance preference.
After he had spent more than a year at Pingle, the deputy minister Jiang Cen (蔣岑) further accused Yuwen of corruption while serving as prefect of Bian Prefecture.
She was born into the imperial house of the Eastern Wei dynasty and was a descendant of Tuoba Yulü of the Dai dynasty and of Empress Pingwen.
He decided to claim that Emperor Taizong had ordered him to turn over central China to Li Congyi, a prince of Later Jin's predecessor state Later Tang.
During Emperor Gaozong's reign In 649, Emperor Taizong died and was succeeded by his son Li Zhi (as Emperor Gaozong).
But after 536, they permanently established separate patriarchates, and have maintained separate lineages of Patriarchs.
Huan Yi administered the province for ten years, being well-respected by its populace for his fair and competent treatment of them.
The historical Church of the East and consequently the Catholicos of the Assyrian Church of the East and recently the Patriarch of the Ancient Church of the East consider themselves also as successors of St.Thomas, a belief that was previously held by the Maphrain of the Syriac orthodox church.
(Աստուածատուր Տարօնցի) Yeghiazar Hromglayetzee (coadjutor) (1664–1665) -- Եղիազար Հռոմկլայեցի Theodore III of Jerusalem (Asdvadzadoor Daronetzee) (1665–1666), restored—Թէոդորոս Գ.
73, Lu Chengqing only had a son named Lu Xu (盧諝), who would serve as director of ministry of personnel (吏部郎中).
Northern and Southern dynasties The Zheng clan first became prominent in the Northern and Southern dynasties period as officials in Northern Wei, beginning with Zheng Xi (426–492).
Emperor Xizong praised him for the petition and ordered that it be implemented, but it was not actually implemented.
Members Father and mother (父母; fùmǔ) ― the mother is "transplanted" (嫁; jià) to father by her family of origin (原生家庭; yuánshēng jiātíng).
He would exempt particularly filial sons and dutiful wives from state labour, and taught improved farming methods to increase harvests.
Besides the killing of his clansman Wang Cheng in c.312, Wang Dun also orchestrated the killing of another clansman, Wang Leng (王棱), in c.315.
The Zhou family of Runan (Chinese: 汝南周氏; pinyin: Rǔnán Zhōu shì) was a notable Chinese family which descended from Ji Lie (姬烈), the youngest son of King Ping of the Zhou dynasty in 8th century BCE China.
He was one of the most important commanders under the Wei general Zhong Hui during the conquest of Wei's rival state, Shu.
Synopsis The book uses analysis of horror fiction to explore the cultural idea that a woman's body is lesser or a deformed version of a man's body.
Central government service At a later point, Cui Zhiwen was recalled to Chang'an to serve as a secretary general of the executive bureau of government (尚書省, Shangshu Sheng).
Prominent members Wang Yun (137-192), Eastern Han official Wang Ling (172-251), nephew of Wang Yun, Cao Wei official Wang Chang (d.
As of 659, Lu was serving as the minister of treasury, when he was given the designation Canzhi Zhengshi (參知政事), making him a chancellor de facto.
In 681, he was made acting Zhongshu Ling (中書令)—the head of the legislative bureau of government (中書省, Zhongshu Sheng) and a post considered one for a chancellor.
Largely concerned with gender issues, Midas comments on the definitions of femininity and masculinity in the early nineteenth century and the developing ideology of separate spheres which encouraged women to restrict themselves to domestic affairs and men to political affairs.
He later served as the governor of Yang Province (揚州, modern Zhejiang and southern part of Jiangsu and Anhui).
Shang recognized him even when he wore a common headscarf, and the two talked with one another like old friends.
When Baba Segi is called to the hospital for tests of his own, the first three wives know that the game will shortly be up.
In addition to these, two modern patriarchates have been established: the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church and the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church.
In 656, Cui, who had been given an additional post as a staff member of Emperor Gaozong's son and crown prince Li Hong as well, offered to resign on account of illness.
It is they who perpetuate the family name, and preserve the ancestral property." Absence or inadequacy of a male heir has thus been periodically problematic, resulting in succession crises, corporate upheaval, and the occasional war.
In 1141, Dashi, interceding in a conflict between the Karakhanids and Karluk nomads, came into direct conflict with the Seljuks.
Yelü Yanning reached the area of present-day Hulunbuir in Inner Mongolia near the source of the Heilongjiang river and continued to the Kherlen River in present-day eastern Mongolia where he met with success.
Rebellions In 960, Yelü Xiyin plotted a rebellion against then-reigning Emperor Muzong (Emperor Taizong's son Yelü Jing).
Unofficial caste There are sources that describe the Khap as an unofficial caste system where the panchayat dominates all other members of the group.
Families with sons have been shown to have increased levels of "marital stability and marital satisfaction," and the presence of sons may increase paternal involvement in child-rearing.
A stage adaptation was first performed in 1904, and the movie Chokher Bali (1938 film) directed by Satu Sen was released in 1938, which Tagore saw and he expressed his satisfaction with the performance in the film.
Roman Catholic Church Within the Catholic Church, six patriarchs lead the Eastern Catholic Churches sui iuris.
Fragments of stars were found among the remains of the ceiling (now collapsed), which was once decorated with the firmament, and mythological images.
The Liao emperor Tianzuo fled west, and his uncle Prince Yelü Chun then formed the short-lived Northern Liao in its southern capital of Liao Nanjing (now Beijing).
Why Men Rule: A Theory of Male Dominance (Chicago, La Salle, and Peru, Illinois: Open Court Publishing Company, 1993), 254+XII Pp., ISBN 9780812692365.
Adaptations Television It was filmed for television in 1952 with Margaret Lockwood in the title role.
He saw this veneration of "non-being" as the cause for Wang Yan and his follower's negligence over government affair, as He Yan and Wang Bi's teachings dissuade taking too much premeditated interference in daily affairs as the best way will naturally take its course.
However, Gein's father was physically abusive towards both him and his mother, and Doyle argues that Gein's mother was Gein's only emotional support in a misogynistic society.
An exception to the trend of remaining north was Du Yi (杜乂), who achieved fame as an elegant gentleman in the Eastern Jin court, but died without issue.
As empress, she was described as brave, resolute, and full of strategies, often participating in Emperor Taizu's military decisions.
Legacy The dynasty Yelü established would last until its usurpation by Kuchlug followed by conquest of its domain by Genghis Khan in 1218.
For Shelley, these commercial efforts are particularly masculine; Midas's ears, which symbolise emasculation, are juxtaposed to masculinising gold.
Biography Princess Lanling was a native of Luoyang County, Henan (now east of Luoyang, Henan Province), a descendant of Tuoba Yulü.
Thus it was that in the chaotic collapse of the Han dynasty, Hedong was one of the first commanderies stabilised under Cao Cao's rule, and with the least wasted effort and resources.
As of 844, Du was serving as the military governor of Huainan Circuit (淮南, headquartered in modern Yangzhou, Jiangsu), when Emperor Wuzong issued an order to the eunuch monitor of Huainan Circuit that he should select 17 prostitutes who were capable in drinking games and send them to the palace.
A man with many sons is viewed as a wealthy or an accomplished man." Igbo men that die without fathering sons are seen as having been "unaccomplished or a misfit" and are not given ceremonial second burials.
Du Tao's rebellion During this period, there was an influx of refugees in Jing province from the Ba-Shu region fleeing from the war against the Cheng-Han rebel state.
At the end of the period, he returned to the government and successively served as Gentleman of the Personnel Bureau, General Who Establishes Might, Intendant of Danyang, Prefect of the Palace Writers and Chief of Affairs to the Crown Prince.
Yang Su wrote a return note detailing his security precautions, but by error the palace attendants delivered it to the Emperor.
History After the Xianbei general Yuwen Tai killed the Northern Wei emperor Yuan Xiu, he installed Yuan Baoju as emperor of Western Wei while Yuwen Tai would remain as the virtual ruler.
Steven Brown Goldberg (14 October 1941 – 17 December 2022) was the chair of the Department of Sociology at the City College of New York from 1988 until his retirement in 2008.
As a primate of the Old Catholic Church in communion with the see of Utrecht, he is considered first among equals though he does not have jurisdictional authority.
Early career Wang Dun was a member of the Wang clan of Langya, being the son of the Jin official Wang Ji (王基; son of Wang Lan (王览) and nephew of Wang Xiang), and he married Emperor Wu of Jin's daughter Princess Xiangcheng.
Wang, who was then at Xiao Yi's headquarters in Jiangling, wanted to wait for Jingling Commandery troops to arrive, and so he and Bao personally visited Xiao Yi to request a delay.
He held posts of governorship of Taizhou (泰州, in modern Tailai County, Heilongjiang) and Xiangzhou (祥州, in modern Wanjinta Township, Nong'an County).
Wang Cheng was shocked and grabbed him by his clothes, but Wang Dun broke free and came back with a strong man named Lu Rong (路戎).
In 568, her grandfather Yang Zhong died, and her father Yang Jian inherited the title of Duke of Sui.
Pei Wei suggest that they wait for a pretext, as many officials in the palace were comfortable with how the regime was doing.
The eight Peis (八裴) refer to eight siblings from the Pei family whose fame was on par with the Wang family of Langya, another prominent political family who played an important role in the Six Dynasties era.
Descendants of Tang of Kam Tin further spread to Ha Tsuen, Tsz Tin Tsuen, Lung Yeuk Tau, Sha Tau Kok, Tai Po Tau, and other places.
Alongside the Cui clan of Boling, the Lu clan of Fanyang and the Wang clan of Taiyuan, the Zhengs were one of the "Four Surnames" of Northern Wei.
Between 1940 and 1948, the Gothic romance film was prevalent in Hollywood, being produced by well-known directors and actors.
In 690, just prior to Empress Dowager Wu taking the throne herself from Emperor Ruizong as the "emperor" of her own Zhou dynasty, interrupting the Tang dynasty, she executed a number of officials and Tang imperial clan members, including Pei.
Branches These are the branches of the Li clan of Zhao Commandery: Eastern ancestry (東祖) Western ancestry (西祖) Southern ancestry (南祖) Prominent members Grand Chancellors of the Tang Empire Li Jiao Li Huaiyuan Li Youdao Li Fan Li Jifu Li Jiang Li Shen Li Deyu Li Jue Li Guyan == References ==
Northern expeditions In 352, the Jin Grand Marshal, Yin Hao was petitioned to lead a campaign to reclaim Luoyang and Xuchang in northern China.
Du Yi died early, and Du Lingyang, who did not have any brothers, was raised by her mother Lady Pei Mu (裴穆).
In the United States, the American Solidarity Party generally adheres to Distributist principles as its economic model.
Guiding questions in this regard concern in what way an intersectional approach might bring to the surface certain previously obscured experiences of oppression.
Frontman Kim Wilson was "mortified by his (Limbaugh's) attack on this young woman." Susan MacMillan Emry, a Californian who previously had not been politically active, founded a public relations campaign called Rock the Slut Vote in response to Limbaugh's comments about Fluke.
These extreme judgements of likeable and unlikeable (i.e., deviant) ingroup members, relatively to comparable outgroup members is called "black sheep effect".
It was reviewed by Time magazine, which said the authors smuggled the book out of Spain into Gibraltar, and feared reprisal from Spanish agents even though they had moved to New Jersey.
The public hypersphere, however, is not limited to publishing or the European café culture, not even to the Internet but includes the larger part of human relations, mediated or not.
A gift or present is an item given to someone (who is not already the owner) without the expectation of payment or anything in return.
The Banyan will act as capacity building partners on this project, and will also share the protocols and values of their emergency care and recovery services, so that they will be replicated in these new centres.
The projections in the report assume this with no upper limit, though at a slowing pace depending on circumstances in individual countries.
In a report released by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention studying the COVID-19 hospitalizations among American children, it was found that 40% of the studied hospitalized children were Hispanic and 33% were Black.
Citizens gain new liberties in expressing and retrieving information but also new ways to establish personal contacts.
By the 1970s, most domestic labourers worked in institutional settings such as hospitals, hotels, or schools.
Sandra Bartky identified disturbances in body image, gender expression and power dynamics as manifestations of internalized sexism in women.
The Banyan is a non-governmental organization based in Chennai, India that was founded in 1993 by Vandana Gopikumar and Vaishnavi Jayakumar to cater to mentally-ill and homeless women in the city.
Two males, who were 15 and 16 years old and were members of a Chinese street gang, were arrested and convicted.
Hybrid financial exploitation Hybrid Financial Exploitation (HFE) is financial exploitation that co-occurs with physical abuse and/or neglect.
On 28 May 2002, Indonesian maid Sundarti Supriyanto killed her employer Angie Ng and Ng's daughter Crystal Poh, and set fire to Ng's Bukit Merah office in Singapore.
This idea of inherited wealth and connections discouraging future generations to work hard can also be attributed to dynastic politicians.
Amnesty International states that the persecution is "politically motivated" with "legislation being used retroactively to convict people on politically-driven charges, and new regulations introduced to further restrict fundamental freedoms".
Researchers have studied the prevalence of psychological distress and mental illness among homeless youth in Australia.
This result was surprising to Milgram because he thought that "subjects have learned from childhood that it is a fundamental breach of moral conduct to hurt another person against his will".
The major risk of underdiagnosis due to the bereavement clause is that it would prevent individuals from getting the treatment they could receive with a diagnosis.
Caller ID provides some protection against unwanted calls, but can still be turned off by the calling party.
O'Brien would be eligible to come forward with claims to the ICRP, although O'Brien died in 2014 before he could answer accusations.
It was stated that nonfatal injuries because of aggression were three times more frequent against health care professionals than private industry workers.
The two women initially raised $12,500 and used this money to purchase $1.5 million of medical debt through RIP Medical Debt, which was then forgiven.
His mother had left her home because of domestic violence, and Traian ran from home sometime after his mother left.
The formulation of the exceptions enshrined in the law seems to be too vague and too general, thus giving room for public institutions to interpret it in a way that restricts access to information.
Potential cause Shortly after the fire, Sal Rivera from the Castro County Sheriff's Office said that the explosion could have been caused by a machine known as the "honey badger," which he described as a "vacuum that sucks the manure and water out".
While working as the landlord at The Copper Pot, Diarmuid occasionally also returned to work as a carpenter.
Africa's share of global population is projected to grow from 17% in 2020 to 25% in 2050 and 38% by 2100, while the share of Asia will fall from 60% in 2020 to 55% in 2050 and 45% in 2100.
These debates occurred alongside efforts by the post-apartheid government to redress historical injustices and promote inclusion.
It was founded in 1963 in Tottenville, Staten Island by Daniel Harold Casriel along with Monsignor William B.
Medical debt is consuming Americans, in fact, it is the number one cause of bankruptcy, because more than 60% of Americans deplete their savings due to some unexpected healthcare cost.
The Federation of South End Settlements was made up of the South End House, Lincoln House (1892), Hale House (1895), Harriet Tubman House (1904), Ellis Memorial House, and Eldridge House.
Family background Ann Rose Lovett was born on 6 April 1968 in Cóbh General Hospital (now Cóbh Community Hospital) on Aileen Terrace in Cóbh, a town on the south coast of County Cork.
See also Durban III Israel and apartheid International Day for Tolerance United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379 References External links WCAR website Summary of Durban Declaration Radio France Internationale "Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, G.A.
The United Nations (1945 onward): Through its specialized institutions, sought to promote more stable and concrete dialogue and cooperation between its members.
The factors that contributed to whether or not a person was more likely to not follow their prescribed medication instructions were age, the number of checkups with a physician, ongoing health problems, income, and insurance coverage.
Not receiving this income may have led many families to increase their debt burden, a significant factor in the 2007–2009 subprime mortgage crisis, as highly leveraged homeowners suffered a much larger reduction in their net worth during the crisis.
Dreaming of a Vetter World is a 2018 American documentary film directed by filmmaker Bonnie Hawthorne.
Ensuring that every year until ratification the Secretary of State reports to Parliament any alterations to the timescale of ratification, the measures taken by the government towards ratification and the measures still needed before ratification.
Frosch described Reason's model in mathematical terms as a model in percolation theory, which he analyses as a Bethe lattice.
United Kingdom Londoners, and perhaps others, extend the appellation to include those who roam in the midst of stopped traffic to not only wash windscreens, but also hawk items such as roses and newspapers.
Foer notes that most people recognize there is something bad about eating animals, but that people willingly forget this is the case.
Program 500 plus miał na celu zwiększenie dzietności, jch In 2016, Beata Szydło's government received the European Confederation of Large Families (ELFAC) Award, for its outstanding achievements in family-friendly policy, particularly for the "Rodzina 500+" program.
Muslim residents of the former British India migrated to Pakistan (including East Pakistan, now Bangladesh), whilst Hindu and Sikh residents of Pakistan and Hindu residents of East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) moved in the opposite direction.
Historian Violette Pouillard argues that such behaviors constitute a form of “silent resistance”, a response to oppressive conditions when direct defiance is suppressed.
About 900,000 gang members lived "within local communities across the country", and about 147,000 were in U.S.
Applications BDI was part of the inspiration behind the BDI software architecture, which Bratman was also involved in developing.
It was a nationwide problem that spanned nearly all industries and helped contribute to modern business conditions still seen today.
The intros of episodes in the series often use clips of these videos that have been distorted or exaggerated in a surreal effect.
Cost in the system are classified as a credence-costs as the buyer cannot tell the quantity bought even after buying them.
Blackstone's Commentaries repeats this story, but adds an additional take—that there were laws making it a capital offense to break into a garden and steal figs, and that the law was so odious that informers were given the name sycophants.
Class is also experienced differently depending on race, gender, ethnicity, global location, disability, and more.
See also References External links The dictionary definition of impunity at Wiktionary International Center for Transitional Justice, Criminal Justice page
These rights are enumerated in the core conventions of international human rights law, though not all HRC members or UNFCCC parties are signatories of these conventions.
See also Accessible toilet Mixed bathing Unisex public toilet References External links Why gender-neutral locker room design is more efficient and increasingly popular in public service facilities, Zimmerman Architectural Studios, Inc.
Clear Channel Communications, the owner of Premiere Networks and a large number of Limbaugh's affiliates, has reaffirmed its support for Limbaugh, whose contract at the time ran through 2016.
Individuals from rural backgrounds may experience that their practical skills or experiences are not recognized as "formal qualifications," even though they carry significant functional value.
These circumstances arise within a framework of behaviors characterized by contempt, stigmatization, rejection, mockery and ridicule, among other adverse and negative attitudes directed toward individuals who were either born or raised in a rural setting, such as a farm or a small village.
Teachers and school officials in Israel are allowed and encouraged to carry firearms if they have former military experience in the IDF, which almost all do.
There are methods to help mitigate the environmental impact imposed by feral cats through different forms of population management.
In the United States, families have filed lawsuits alleging that sycophancy and prolonged interactions with language models played a role in self‑harm or suicide.
People are more inclined to help an identified victim than an unidentified one, and people are more inclined to help a single identified victim than a group of identified victims.
The law entitles any natural or legal person the right to access information held in any form by state and local authorities, public companies and other entities which exercise public functions.
In contrast, LGBT characters portrayed as complex characters who are more than a cipher for their sexual orientation or identity are a step in the right direction.
Background Especially in the agriculture-based economies of Africa, agriculture is the sector that can affect not only poverty reduction and food security, but can also foster economic growth and sustain the environment.
The decision to help an identified victim is made ex post, after the victim is in danger, but the decision to save a statistical victim is often made ex ante, to prevent danger to the individual.
Global food production Food security differs around the world, with some regions being much more prone to food insecurity due to both lack of fertile land, as well as capital that could procure sufficient food through the purchasing of imports.
British sociologist David Hirsh noted that Zionist academics “have not been able to publish, people were not able to do the things that you need to do in order to build a career in academia”.
Data exclusivity Data exclusivity is a regulatory measure limiting the use of clinical trial data and provides conductor of the trial temporary exclusive rights to the data.
Examples include fines and fees that the person is unable to pay, anti-homelessness laws and actions, and interconnections between welfare and criminal law.
Reports have associated the practice with significant psychological distress, fear of retaliation, and a reluctance to report incidents due to social stigma.
Another origin of the concept is in the writings of Calvinist law-philosopher Johannes Althaus who used the word subsidia in 1603.
Kenen writes, "Despite its accessible appeal and riveting subject matter, Sexing the Body will likely be disappointing to the specialized audience that reads Isis.
The prevalence of difficulties in left-right discrimination was investigated in a cohort of 2,720 adult members of Mensa and Intertel by Storfer.
There were rumors circulating around Chinese communities and the Internet (especially with e-mail chain letters) to avoid certain Chinese restaurants and supermarkets in many urban and suburban Chinatowns because they could allegedly contract the virus.
The story ends with Hume, disgusted at having been treated so badly, removing Clara from his will and testament.
The lesser-known anarchist branch of distributism of Day and the Catholic Worker Movement can be considered a form of free-market libertarian socialism due to their opposition to state capitalism and state socialism.
Another example is the Pullman Strike in 1894, where almost 4,000 workers who were members of the American Railway Union (ARU) went on a strike without permission of the union to protest wage cuts by the Pullman Company.
The Committee on World Food Security (CFS) is an intergovernmental body within the United Nations System.
A person does not have to have each of these but if something has all five, then it definitely is a person whether it is biologically human or not, while if it has none or perhaps only one, then it is not a person, whether it is biologically human or not.
Brewer notes that ordinary people, as opposed to politicians, can promote peace in post-conflict situations, based on ethics and "moral duty".
This has resulted in higher hospitalization rates for people with diabetes who live in a food swamp designated area.
Francis Grose added in his Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue (1796) "and formerly, as it is said, a live eel", but that is very unlikely.
This abuse of resources may come in the form of time, office supplies, raw materials, finished products or the services that they provide.
Commissioners Current Commissioners Past Commissioners See also List of data protection authorities by country References External links National Privacy Commission Republic Act No.
An employee who is less satisfied with his or her work may become less productive, as their needs are not met.
In general, premiums are higher for policies that provide more monthly benefits, offer benefits for longer periods of time, and start payments of benefits more quickly following a disability claim.
Many governmental and non-governmental organizations active in the human rights field also schedule special events to commemorate the day, as do many civil and social-cause organisations.
Visiting those detained in relation to conflicts and enabling them to restore and maintain contact with their families, is a very important part of the ICRC's mandate.
That the music is low frequency sonically and regarded as reflective of a lower culture shows the influential connection between counterculture and the music produced.
For example, exposure to prejudice may lead to rumination, which is a common psychological phenomenon characterized by a maladaptive, repetitive, and obsessive focus on a past event that leads to depressive and anxious symptoms.
Steering Committee members include Olanike Adeyemo, Hilal Elver, Patrick Webb, and Cecilia Elizondo.
In a report released in October 2022, HKDC criticized executives that attended Global Financial Leaders' Investment Summit were "lending credibility" to the whitewashing campaign of Hong Kong authorities and to John Lee.
These outcomes reflect complex factors including patent protections, lack of price negotiation for public insurance programs, limited generic competition, and opaque pricing practices throughout the supply chain.
[...] This was essentially an expression of local community attitudes with [...] the preference for male offspring.
However, when everything seemed to be going smoothly, Yaima's parents decided to file a lawsuit against Thaba and her second husband in an effort to obtain custody of their daughter from their previous marriage.
All day long the phone-message slips pile up on their desks—calls from famous people seeking favors—but at night they realize the tub needs scrubbing, so it's down on the hands and knees with the Ajax.
Timetable Through the Commons The Bill had its first reading in the House of Commons on the 29 June 2016 and its second reading on the 16 December 2016.
By acknowledging the compounded effects of intersecting identities, multiplicative models reveal that marginalized groups may need targeted strategies to address the challenges they face.
A secret annex to the Treaty of Lausanne granted immunity to the perpetrators of the Armenian genocide and put an end to the effort to prosecute Ottoman war criminals.
Similarly, Cyr and colleagues found that about 70% of sibling incest involved sexual penetration, substantially higher than other forms of incest.
Through its tracing services and working with the 189 national Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies around the world, the ICRC seeks to obtain information about their fate on behalf of their families.
Activity The AWA formed branches in many Palestinian cities and towns, and became the leading organization of the Palestinian women's movement.
The Launch Station will be the first step towards a full-scale Sahara Forest Project Centre in Aqaba, Jordan.
BDI is fundamentally reliant on folk psychology (the 'theory theory'), which is the notion that our mental models of the world are theories.
Through the Lords and royal assent The Bill had its first reading on the 27 February 2017 and its second reading on the 10 March.
He further wrote, "I believe as long as man tortures and kills animals, he will torture and kill humans as well—and wars will be waged—for killing must be practiced and learned on a small scale".
Quinn's ideas are popularly associated with environmentalism, though he criticized this term for portraying the environment as separate from human life, thus creating a false dichotomy, and the mainstream environmental movement as misguided and ultimately ineffective.
In the long term, these effects can lead to increased conflict over dwindling resources and in the worst case a Malthusian catastrophe.
This was before the ratification of the 17th Amendment to the constitution of the United States in 1913, which introduced direct elections for the office of senator.
Robert Mayanja (1982) lost his parents in the Ugandan Civil War at the age of three, when Milton Obote's soldiers raided their village, around 50 miles (80 km) from Kampala.
The intrepid Midgley, on the other hand, seems willing to speculate about the subjective experience of tapeworms ...
Quinn cautioned that his admiration for the sustainable lifestyles of indigenous tribes is not intended to encourage a massive "return" to hunting and gathering.
Earmarks may be used, although non-traumatic methods such as tattooing their tails and painting spots on white mice with crystal violet or permanent markers can be used as well.
In The Acharnians, a Megarian attempting to sell his daughters is confronted by a sycophant who accuses him of illegally attempting to sell foreign goods; and a Boeotian purchases a sycophant as a typical Athenian product that he cannot obtain at home.
Framing the issue Some people see the matter as primarily one of women's health, such as the National Women's Law Center.
Protests and appeal There was outrage at the convictions from charity workers, academics, and Members of Parliament from all parties.
Intervention Non-violent resistance (NVR) is an approach designed to overcome a child’s aggressive, controlling, and self-destructive behaviors.
This includes the Emergency Care and Recovery Center offered in hospital-based settings, the Center for Mental Health and Inclusive Development promoting the Home Again model and the Center for Social Needs and Livelihood.
"Assessing international evaluations: An example from USAID's Democracy and Governance Programs" (PDF).
On July 3, 2023, Hong Kong authorities issued an arrest warrant for eight overseas activists including HKDC's executive director Anna Kwok, citing efforts by overseas activists encouraging Western countries to sanction Hong Kong officials.
Collective narcissism is related to ethnocentrism; however, ethnocentrism primarily focuses on self-centeredness at an ethnic or cultural level, while collective narcissism is extended to any type of ingroup beyond just cultures and ethnicities.
See also Diseases of poverty Food Justice Movement Socioeconomic status and mental health Transit desert Transport divide Environmental racism Environmental Racism in the United States == References ==
See also References Citations Sources External links The Presumption of Innocence in the French and Anglo-American Legal Traditions Archived 2012-11-24 at the Wayback Machine The History of Presumed Innocence What’s Wrong with Military Trials of Terrorist Suspects?
There had been unresolved clashes and arguments in the past between the director's men and Thaba's son regarding Yaima and Nungshithoi's daughter.
Status–income disequilibrium (sometimes abbreviated SID) occurs when a desirable high status job has a relatively low income.
According to friends, Moxley began flirting with, and eventually kissed, Thomas Skakel, the older brother of 15-year-old Michael Skakel.
The act made provisions for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and set out a reporting process for the Secretary of State.
INL CTOC efforts include helping foreign governments build effective law enforcement institutions that combat transnational organized crime, everything from money laundering, cybercrime, and intellectual property theft to trafficking in goods, people, weapons, drugs, or endangered wildlife.
The increased amount of obesity can be contributed to the nutrition transition that describes how people are now increasingly turning to high-fat, sugar, and salt food sources because of their availability and price.
The preamble of the UN Charter reaffirms "faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women".
Rude remarks from patients or their family members can distract healthcare professionals and cause them to make mistakes during a medical procedure.
Regulatory capture is the co-opting of regulatory agencies by members of or the entire regulated industry.
Goosebumps The term is also attributed to piloerection or "goose bumps" that occurs with abrupt withdrawal from opioids, which resembles the skin of a plucked refrigerated turkey.
In the English language, black sheep is an idiom that describes a member of a group who is different from the rest, especially a family member who does not fit in.
Physiological density, also known as real population density, is defined as the number of people per unit area of arable land.
An awareness of their impact on the Earth, and connection to nature is essential members of the Landdyke Movement's way of life.
In his autobiography, Lincoln Steffens details how news reporting can be used to create the impression of a crime wave where there is none, in the chapter "I Make a Crime Wave".
Destruction of property (sometimes called property destruction, or criminal damage in England and Wales) is a sub-type of property damage that involves damage to property that results from willful misconduct and is punishable as a crime.
In the 1970s, as these movements grew in influence, green politics arose as a new philosophy which synthesized their goals.
It also unanimously adopted a declaration calling on the international community to fulfil an earlier pledge to cut the number of hungry people to about 400 million by 2015.
But, unless that research extends to countries characterized by poor, high-density populations, Global Food Security Index scores are likely to decrease in the coming years.
In order to fulfill its mandate, the commission is vested with a broad range of powers, from receiving complaints and instituting investigations on matters affecting personal data protection to compelling entities to abide by its orders in matters affecting data privacy.
In 2001, they reached an agreement to end reliance on nuclear power in Germany, and agreed to remain in coalition and support the German government of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder in the 2001 Afghan War.
Sandra Fluke was invited to present oral arguments on behalf of certain female student consumers dissatisfied with restrictions attached to registration for undergraduate and graduate attendance at Georgetown University School of Law.
After consultation with various private organizations, civil societies and a series of public hearings in Manila, Cebu and Davao, the Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Data Privacy Act was signed on August 24, 2016.
The study concluded that habitat loss and degradation were the primary threats to endangered bird species, impacting at least 52% of them, while introduced species, including domestic cats, rats and mustelids, accounted for 6% of endangered birds.
A more recent adaptation of Warhol's quip, possibly prompted by the rise of online social networking, blogging, and internet celebrity, is the claim that "In the future, everyone will be famous to fifteen people" or, in some renditions, "On the Web, everyone will be famous to fifteen people".
One nurse took over his care, and he began to rapidly gain weight and his growth hormone levels increased during this time.
List of winners by year 2011 Boris Bulayev, president, and Eric Glustrom, executive director, Educate!
In September 2021, Brian Leung Kai-ping became HKDC executive director and Alex Chow Yong-kang became board chair.
However, there are global differences towards the debate; for example, in Canada and the United States there are no regulations, whereas in Switzerland the donor must be willing to be identified, and in France, anonymity is forced.
In the United Kingdom, BBC News reports have linked the phenomenon to broader issues of tenant protection and affordable housing shortages.
This can be considered a virtual counterpart of wearing a pin to display one's sympathies; however, acquiring such a pin often requires some monetary donation to the cause while changing profile picture does not.
This now includes every instance of being understood informationally, no matter whether physically implemented or not.
In the year 2018 also Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) became 70 years old which was celebrated in the prize ceremony.
Upward comparison is the idea that someone compares themselves to someone they feel is better than they are.
According to the AIA, inclusive locker rooms protect privacy by being "arranged in a shared, semi-public space" with a "mix of individual, private rooms" as well as "highly visible, non-gender-segregated multi-user spaces".
Key concepts Overconsumption The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Global Footprint Network have argued that the annual biocapacity of Earth has exceeded, as measured using the ecological footprint.
At the resulting trial at King's Lynn Crown Court, the prosecution argued that the charity was "almost a supermarket for heroin." It was established during the trial that Wyner and Brock were never present when the dealing was occurring.
Observer Magazine: Armchair Warrior Foreign Policy magazine: "The brave new world of slacktivism" Peña-López, I.
Since then, lawsuits for unfair dismissal have led to blacklisting being covert or informal, but it remains common.
Children's participation is a child's right to be heard in all matters affecting them, as defined by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
Similarly, killing a child or adult may be permissible in exceptional circumstances such as self-defense or perhaps capital punishment, although these are irrelevant to standard abortions.
The sociological study of peace, war, and social conflict uses sociological theory and methods to analyze group conflicts, especially collective violence and alternative constructive nonviolent forms of conflict transformation.
The advantage is that it can be implemented non-intrusively by the service provider without any special software on the handset.
Abusers may also force their victims to obtain credit and then through negligent activities ruin their credit rating and ability to get credit.
The procedure is recommended to be undertaken under general anaesthesia; opponents' primary concerns revolve around post-operative pain.
Young states that these drivers of unconscious bias reflect the positions people hold about others that are influenced by past experiences, forming filters that cause conclusions to be reached about a group or ethnicity through methods other than active thought or reasoning.
Poland An experienced midwife working during the pandemic in a Polish hospital was fired after she published a report on Facebook on 18 March about the conditions of medical personnel and the hospital in relation to the pandemic.
The Ageless Linux project also builds hardware designed to provide computing devices resistant to age checks.
Green platforms generally favor tariffs on fossil fuels, restricting genetically modified organisms, and protections for ecoregions or communities.
It is estimated that if China developed to the level of the United States that world consumption rates would roughly double.
Concealing such personal information causes significant psychological distress, including intrusive thoughts about the secret, shame and guilt, anxiety, and isolation from other members of the minority group.
They advocate for a relational and empirical definition of animal resistance, focusing on actions that disrupt human control and provoke institutional responses, whether or not intent can be proven.
This harms their psycho-social well-being and self-systems, causing them to produce and reproduce stress-induced, disadvantageous behavioral responses that lead to the development of maladaptive habits.
Here, the notion of intention was seen as a way of limiting time spent on deliberating about what to do, by eliminating choices inconsistent with current intentions.
While sometimes presented as a consensual arrangement, the practice raises significant concerns regarding power imbalance and exploitation, particularly when involving individuals facing housing insecurity or economic hardship.
For example, one stakeholder described the difficulty getting patients who self-medicate to seek clinical help and treatment for psychosis.
With rising concerns by the Information Technology and Business Process Association of the Philippines (IBPAP) of an absence of a Data Privacy Law, Philippine Congress passed Senate Bill No.
3–20, ISBN 978-0-88738-881-1{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Bollen, Kenneth; Paxton, Pamela; Morishima, Rumi (June 2005).
Her suicide caused outrage across Taiwan over the inadequate legislation regarding animal euthanasia, as well as the issue of cyberbullying by netizens and the press.
Automatic information interchange and beneficial ownership registration were among the ranking criteria.
Political upheaval made its way into art in the country: film, music and literature were shaped by the ongoing changes both within the country, the Southern Hemisphere and the rest of the world.
Two complaints by the Rhodesian Ridgeback Club of Great Britain were upheld: the unfair representation of research on dermoid sinus in Ridgebacks and the club's action with regard to the issue, and the description of the ridge of the breed as a deformity and a form of spina bifida.
Scholars regard symbolic consumption as a social construct, with shared perceptions about a product's meaning conveyed through advertising, magazines, and television.
Malls featured in Bell's chronicles most notably include Owings Mills Mall, Bristol Mall, Burlington Center Mall, Marley Station Mall, Voorhees Town Center, Rolling Acres Mall, Frederick Towne Mall, and Staunton Mall.
In countries with limited arable land relative to their population, such as Egypt, physiological density is substantially higher than arithmetic density, reflecting concentrated population pressure on fertile areas.
Afghanistan On 20 September 2022, the slogan was chanted by Afghan women in a protest in support of women protesting in Iran.
"Unfair By Design: The War on Drugs, Race, and the Legitimacy of the Criminal Justice System" (PDF).
Martine-Anstett Award, or Martine-Anstett Human Rights Prize, is awarded every year on 29 April in Paris to the person, man or woman, strongly committed to the defense of human rights.
Indian women who supported the bill responded by noting that they were more educated as a whole then the Anglo-Indian women who opposed the bill, pointing out that more women in India had gained academic degrees than those living in the United Kingdom.
One such line of argument holds that sentience and individual welfare are less important to morality than the greater ecological good.
In addition to increased access, there has also an increased national focus on raising quality standards for Head Start and state-funded pre-K programs, and in improving training and professional development for early care providers.
The Department of Environmental Protection paved over the space around the hydrant in the morning on October 25, 2024.
The most frequently used methods dealing with natural monopolies are government regulations and public ownership.
These interpretations are sometimes contrasted with concepts such as white fragility, which focuses more narrowly on defensive responses rather than overt hostility.
Prognosis A review from 2000 stated that life expectancy was reduced because of a tendency to develop cancer relatively early as well as deaths due to infections related to immunodeficiency.
They have cortical atrophy (also known as degeneration) of the brain's outer layer, although it is usually found in older affected people.
During these interviews, he has repeatedly emphasized that young men and women should speak up about their experiences with sexual abuse to prevent themselves from becoming like him.
Aisbitt regularly played a comical character in stop motion animations that were broadcast on Irish national television.
Seckel syndrome, or microcephalic primordial dwarfism (also known as bird-headed dwarfism, Harper's syndrome, Virchow–Seckel dwarfism and bird-headed dwarf of Seckel) is an extremely rare congenital nanosomic disorder.
Additionally, Abomah performed with Reynold's Waxworks and Exhibition in 1900, 1903, and 1912–1913, and with Barnum and Bailey in 1918.
Joelison Fernandes da Silva (born 15 August 1985) is a Brazilian Sitting volleyball player and he has been recognized as the tallest man in Brazil, measuring 2.37 meters tall and weighing 169 kilograms.
On her 6th birthday she was measured at 5 feet 2 inches (157.48 centimetres) tall, an inch or two (2.5–5 cm) shorter than her mother.
Also, while giving people opportunity, they also highly edited photos of people to make their image not look like them anymore.
There is evidence for some features of premature aging including the early development of Barrett's esophagus, osteoporosis present in the teenage years, premature greying of hair and some changes to the skin of the face causing a more aged appearance compared to chronological age.
The Senate in Rome switched allegiance, gave both Gordian and Gordian II the title of Augustus, and set about rousing the provinces in support of the pair.
After a fall in Tampa, Florida in 1984, he returned to his birthplace Dalvík, where he died a few months later at the age of 71.
He was purported by some to be 2.67 m (8 ft 9 in) tall, but other sources claimed he was 2.46 m (8 ft 1 in) tall.
DNMT3A overgrowth mutations are hypothesized to interfere with the enzyme's role in H3K36me2-regulated non-CpG DNA methylation.
Choi was picked as a first reserve fighter against Ray Sefo at the 2008 K-1 Championship finals which he lost by unanimous decision.
Leonid Stadnyk, reported to be 2.57 m (8 ft 5 in) tall, briefly held the title, but was disqualified due to his refusal to be measured.
The term, however, has been found offensive by some because of the reference to the polydactyly, which is seen as a 'freakish' label.
When applied to skeletal dysplasias, mesomelic dwarfism describes generalised shortening of the forearms and lower legs.
Isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD) is a rare congenital disorder characterized by growth hormone deficiency and postnatal growth failure.
He obtained his ordinary National Diploma certificate from the University of Lagos and went further to get his Higher National Diploma certificate from the Lagos state Polytechnic.
Individuals who have type III may also be more susceptible to infections and have a compromised immune system.
In families with two affected parents, children who inherit both affected genes (for which there is a 25% chance) typically die before birth or in early infancy from breathing difficulties.
In adulthood, the average height for males with achondroplasia is 131 cm, while females typically measure 124 cm.
His height, 245.9 cm (8 ft 0.8 in) was based on an estimate: after a series of falls, his legs were badly injured, and they were amputated after gangrene set in.
His character was a well-mannered English bachelor who lived in the apartment next door to George and Louise Jefferson.
British historian Ronald Syme, writing that "the word 'Gothia' should have sufficed for condemnation" of the passage in the Historia Augusta, felt that the burden of evidence from Herodian, Syncellus and elsewhere pointed to Maximinus having been born in Moesia Superior or Moesia Inferior.
Presentation Parastremmatic dwarfism is apparent at birth, with affected infants usually being described as "stiff", or as "twisted dwarfs" when the skeletal deformities and appearance of dwarfism further present themselves.
The Belangenvereniging van Kleine Mensen (BVKM) (English: Interest Association of Little People) is the Dutch Patients' Organization for little people and patients with skeletal dysplasia.
Approximately half of individuals exhibit behavioral or psychiatric issues; the most common diagnosis is autism spectrum disorder.
"Poikiloderma consists of areas of increased and decreased pigmentation, prominent blood vessels, and thinning of the skin." Accelerated aging In humans, individuals with RTS, and carrying the RECQL4 germline mutation, can have several clinical features of accelerated aging.
The mission of the International Dwarf Fashion Show is "to reverse the discriminatory diktats of beauty and to give the opportunity to little people to express themselves by bringing an innovative perspective to the fashion industry.
During high school, he grew 10 inches (25 cm) in one year, a growth spurt later attributed to a pituitary tumor.
The campaign aims to challenge stereotypes, reduce stigma, and encourage understanding of the lived experiences of people with dwarfism.
In May 1857 the Emperor and Empress of Austria invited the towering native of Ireland to visit their kingdom.
Death Around Christmas 1945, Hatton suffered a series of heart attacks, a direct result of his acromegalic condition.
TET3 enzyme facilitates conversion of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), initiating active DNA demethylation, an epigenetic mechanism.
Struycken played Terak in the 1985 TV film Ewoks: The Battle for Endor, a spin-off to the original Star Wars trilogy.
Only 3 families from Germany and the United States worldwide have been described with the disorder, and they showed either X-linked or autosomal dominant inheritance.
He considered his size to be an advantage, for potential customers would often want to meet with him out of curiosity, and they always remembered him.
The cause of Zeng's gigantism was a tumor that caused her pituitary gland to overproduce human growth hormone.
In case of MGORS, these proteins usually lose their function, which impairs the rate of the cell cycle and causes growth restriction.
Roussimoff finally returned to action on 26 April 1991, in a six-man tag-team matchup when he teamed with The Rockers in a winning effort against Mr.
Childe of Hale Trail Speke Hall, near Hale, incorporates a woodland trail depicting his house, feet, hands and other items.
When the Mazices invaded Scetes in 395, John fled the Nitrian Desert and went to live on Mount Colzim, near the present city of Suez, where he died.
His parents are short, unlike his Tatar ancestor "of mountainous proportions", and Valuev had previously denied that his own size was due to medical issues such as gigantism complicated by acromegaly, instead arguing for it being a question of genetics.
Guinness World Records official said Balawing broke the record of Khagendra Thapa Magar of Nepal, who was 0.67 m (2 ft 2+1⁄3 in) tall.
Honours and legacy Drásal's name bears the prestigious and most difficult Czech cross-country cycling race named Bikemaraton Drásal, which takes place every year in Holešov.
During his appearances, he dressed in his everyday clothes and refused the circus's request that he wear a top hat and tails.
The fact that he could dribble the ball so well came about as a result of him playing point-guard in high school when he was still too short to play the center slot.
However, N'Diaye was not allowed to play the sport during his first year in the high school because of California Interscholastic Federation rules.
They were married by the Queen's wish; and the two together measured only 7 feet 2 inches (2.18 m) They had nine children, five of whom, who lived, were of ordinary stature.
This mutation in MED12 causes incorrect expression and activity of the protein it encodes, resulting in the disorder.
Because of this, many regarded Baba as the most honest promoter in the professional-wrestling business.
During an initial medical evaluation of shortness, the absence of disproportion and other clues listed above usually indicates causes other than bone dysplasias.
Also, through this line of, he looked after people like Robin Williams, some members of the Rolling Stones and other contemporary musicians and film stars.
In 2004, The Tribune reported him to be 2.51 m (8 ft 3 in) tall and still growing, being in his late teens.
According to his niece Lily Levi, "Not a chair was tall enough, not a bed was long enough, not a table was high enough." Like any celebrity, Porter had a love-hate relationship with the public attention.
The loss of these genes is responsible for some of the overall characteristics of Langer–Giedion syndrome.
The MAGIC Foundation (short for Major Aspects of Growth in Children) is an American non-profit organization which helps families of children diagnosed with a wide variety of different growth impacting medical conditions through education, networking, physician referrals and numerous other services.
Biography Siddiqa Parveen first became known in 2012 when India TV News reported her to be 8 ft 0 in (2.44 m) and 160 kilograms (350 lb).
Acromegaly distorted the shape of Hatton's head, face, and extremities in a gradual but consistent process.
References External links Jack Earle at IMDb Jack Earle at Find a Grave Jack Earle in archived footage from 1931 that proves his height in The British Pathé http://www.britishpathe.com/video/queer-and-quaint
Bruck syndrome has features of congenital contractures, bone fragility, recurring bone fractures, flexion joint and limb deformities, pterygia, short body height, and progressive kyphoscoliosis.
Alexander Alekseyevich Sizonenko (Ukrainian: Олександр Олексійович Сизоненко; Russian: Александр Алексеевич Сизоненко; 20 July 1959 – 5 January 2012) was a Soviet professional basketball player.
There are only 2 known families, from Dubai and Texas, in which the disease was passed from mother to daughter (Texas), and from a mother to her 2 sons (Dubai).
Sweden Court dwarfs are noted at the Swedish Royal Court from the mid 16th-century, when the female court dwarfs "Lilla Gunnel" ('Little Gunnel') and Fedossa from Russia were in service of Princess Sophia of Sweden.
The first to document the syndrome was Henry Silver, who first discovered it when describing two children who had many of the symptoms of Silver–Russell syndrome, specifically the asymmetry part of the symptoms; this was discovered in 1953.
He also went to the capital city Taipei where he met Lin Yü-chih, who is among the shortest living men in the world.
Career statistics College Personal life In October 2008, George had his right foot partly amputated due to a Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection.
Unsurprisingly, many of the features are similar to ataxia telangiectasia (AT) and this syndrome was sometimes termed AT-variant 1, as the protein mutated in AT, ATM, interacts with the MRE11/RAD50/NBS1 (MRN) complex.
However, modern Egyptologists admonish for caution, the ancient Egyptian did not differ between dwarfs and pygmies to discriminate them, they simply chose their activities according to their skills.
In the 1991 movie The Rocketeer, actor Tiny Ron Taylor, playing Nazi henchman Lothar, is made up with prosthetics to look like Hatton.
By November 1939, Wadlow was a Master Mason under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Illinois A.F.
Reliability of testing The standard test for growth hormone deficiency is the growth hormone stimulation test.
History MGORS was first described by Meier and colleagues in 1959, and later by Gorlin and colleagues in 1975.
In her later years, Allen used a wheelchair because her legs and back could no longer support her tall stature while standing.
Their services include public education and awareness, quarterly newsletters, national networking, an annual convention, disorder specific brochures, and a Kids Program.
They are recognized by Guinness World Records as the tallest living married couple with their combined height of 13 feet 10.72 inches (423.47 cm).
He worked as the Senior Passenger Handling Services Officer in the Customer Services department of the Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) as the national flag carrier.
In a shoot interview, Ken Patera recalled an occasion where Roussimoff was challenged by Dick Murdoch to a beer drinking contest.
She would use her great height to earn a living as a sideshow attraction, popularly known as "The Missouri Giantess." Early life and growth Ella Ewing was born in La Grange, Missouri, the only child of Benjamin F.
The "Generationswechsel" (Generational Change) project pursued a goal of future-oriented orientation in 2013.
MOPD II is listed as a rare disease by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Their diets should be restricted to smaller portions than that of a child who is not diagnosed with achondroplasia.
Bone resection is performed on patients who have no growth left and involves removing part of the bone.
He was awarded the title of shortest adult human ever recorded, after his height was measured in February 2012.
Although it is unknown how RECQL4 gene mutations produce RAPADILINO syndrome's specific symptoms, these changes may result in the accumulation of DNA errors and cell death.
There is uncertainty around what Gongor's occupation at the Bogd Khan's court was: accountant and keeper of the Bogd Khan's elephant, the Bogd Khan's bodyguard, or wrestler.
Scholars and historians evaluate Amenemope's humane doctrines as a public appeal against upcoming moral decay within Egyptian society.
Koehler wore shoes that were size 22, but he once stated that his most bothersome clothing problem was finding socks that fit him.
In 2017, he discovered osteomyelitis in the bone of one of his legs, and the only alternative to solve the problem was the amputation of the leg in 2021.
Management Abdominal wall defects are common in newborns with BWS and may require surgical treatment.
History In 2020, seven organizations representing individuals with achondroplasia and other skeletal dysplasias from various European countries decided to collaborate on an advocacy project.
The date honors the birthday of Billy Barty (1924–2000), actor and founder of Little People of America, who championed rights and representation for people with short stature.
Some sports organizations, like Hockey Canada, have committed to removing the word, recognizing that it might be considered offensive.
According to Bahnsen upon arriving at the school, N'Diaye "could barely get up and down the court more than a few times" due to his poor fitness after rehabilitation.
She lived in Barnum's American Museum in New York City, and on July 13, 1865, she nearly burned to death when the museum was destroyed by fire.
An initiative with the Vereinigung Kleinwüchsiger Menschen (VKM) achieved a nationwide ban on dwarf tossing in 1992.
Okayama was the only player from Japan drafted into the NBA until Rui Hachimura was selected in the 2019 NBA draft.
Personal life At age 20, he was diagnosed with acromegaly, which explains his tall height of 2.13 m (7 feet) and distinctive facial features.
Naseer Ahmad Soomro (Urdu: نصیر احمد سومرو; 1969 or 1970 – 17 March 2025), was at one point the tallest living Pakistani, standing at 2.36 m (7 ft 9 in).
He was allegedly 9 feet 3 inches (2.82 m) tall, and legend tells that he slept with his feet out of the window of his small house, and tales credit him with great strength.
References See also List of tallest people Robert Wadlow, the tallest man in recorded history Rumeysa Gelgi, the tallest woman alive (also from Turkey) Zeng Jinlian, the tallest woman in recorded history External links Dünyanın en uzun insanı bir Türk – NTV The Tallest Man in the world
He can also be seen in Blondie's video for their 2003 hit "Good Boys." Due to his extraordinary height and deep voice, he appeared on The Howard Stern Show beginning in December 1996.
Of these regions, Latin America and the Caribbean were on track to achieve global targets set with global initiatives such as United Nations Millennium Development Goals and World Health Assembly targets (see following section on global targets).
Sienna Bernal – world's rarest discordant twinning Afshin Esmaeil Ghaderzadeh - Iranian Kurdish internet celebrity, the current Guinness World Records holder of shortest living man since December 2022.
The exact cause of his death was not disclosed, although The Kathmandu Post reported that he had previously been suffering from pneumonia.
Holyfield Valuev's first title defense of his second reign as WBA Champion was against the 46-year-old, four-time heavyweight champion of the world, Evander Holyfield, on 20 December 2008.
While continuing to be the promotion's top star, Baba also put a focus on using foreign wrestlers, inviting the likes of Dory Funk, Bruiser Brody, Abdullah The Butcher and Stan Hansen to compete for All Japan from the very beginning.
Genetics Parastremmatic dwarfism is caused by a missense mutation (where one amino acid is replaced by another in a gene sequence) in the TRPV4 gene, located on the long arm of human chromosome 12, at 12q24.11.
Pianist and composer Sergei Rachmaninoff (1873–1943), noted for his hands that could comfortably stretch a 13th on the piano, was never diagnosed with acromegaly in his lifetime, but a medical article from 2006 suggests that he might have had it.
Clinical features also may include a short, upturned nose, a prominent forehead, and a flat nasal bridge.
He is known all over Mongolia, and also mentioned or pictured in some accounts of contemporary western travellers.
During his pro club career, Lauderdale also played in numerous other countries besides Greece and Bulgaria, including Venezuela, Cyprus, Saudi Arabia, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, China, Iraq, Lebanon, and the United Kingdom.
At the time of his funeral, he had shrunk several inches, due to kyphoscoliosis (curvature of the spine, a mixture of scoliosis and kyphosis).
After being awarded the title, he said he had always wished to travel to all parts of his country and the world.
Igor Vovkovinskiy (also known as Igor Ladan; September 18, 1982 – August 20, 2021) was a Ukrainian-American law student, actor and tallest living person in the United States, at 7 feet 8+1⁄3 inches (234.5 cm), briefly taking the record from George Bell.
He appeared in two movies, Bottoms Up (1974) and Milo Barus, der stärkste Mann der Welt and two television series, Monaco Franze and Am laufenden Band.
Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia-short limb-abnormal calcification syndrome is a rare genetic disorder which is characterized by osseous anomalies resulting in short stature and other afflictions.
BWS has been shown to specifically involve mutations in a defined region on the short arm of chromosome 11 referred to as 11p15.5, that leads to overactivity of the IGF-2 gene (growth factor) and/or no active copy of CDKN1C (inhibitor of cell proliferation gene).
Close monitoring of growth in the first few years is essential, as well as annual general health screening and tests listed below.
Diagnosis Robinow syndrome is suspected by clinical findings and family history and confirmed by typical ROR-2 biallelic pathogenic variants identified by molecular genetic testing.
The variants—which can be of various types like nonsense, missense or frameshift—disrupt the normal DNA demethylation process during early embryonic development and the formation of the nervous system.
Young, dwarf adults who have been associated with the association since childhood are increasingly involved in responsible positions.
One notable organization that is supporting people with Hallermann–Streiff syndrome is the Germany-based "Schattenkinder e.V".
Death On July 8, 2015, Keyes died at the Playa Del Rey Center in Los Angeles, California of complications of acromegaly at age 63.
Pathophysiology As an adult ages, it is normal for the pituitary to produce diminishing amounts of GH and many other hormones, particularly the sex steroids.
Pathophysiology This disorder results from mutations in the proximal tyrosine kinase domain of the FGFR3 gene.
These tests may include: X-rays and other imaging tests electrocardiography (EKG) echocardiography eye examination hearing tests cognitive function tests History The abnormalities common to CES were first cataloged in 1899, and described in association with a small marker chromosome in 1965.
The Spanish government gave plots of land for housing and agriculture to some of the settlers in the area, and used them as incentives to recruit soldiers.
After school he started working as a day laborer in his native village and then as a coachman in Bludov Chateau.
Between his early 20s to early 30s, he gained height at the average rate of 9.14 cm (3.16 in) per year.
Leri–Weill dyschondrosteosis is characterized by mesomelic short stature, with bowing of the radius more so than the ulna in the forearms and bowing of the tibia while sparing the fibula.
Society and culture One case was a child who was admitted to a hospital with an extremely low weight.
His health, however had worsened progressively and he died from a heart attack on March 15, 1994, at the age of 77, in Carolina, Puerto Rico.
His World War I draft registration card, dated August 29, 1918, lists his height as 8 feet (240 cm).
He was the tallest basketball player ever at 244.9 cm (8 ft 2⁄5 in) although he was only 239 cm (7 ft 10 in) when he played professional basketball.
Land degradation Southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa are regions where land degradation coincide with high poverty rates and childhood stunting.
For almost all of her playing career, she played for TTT Riga, which was part of Daugava Voluntary Sports Society.
In general, children with overgrowth syndromes are at increased risk of embryonic tumor development.
Berk–Tabatznik syndrome is a medical condition with an unknown cause that shows symptoms of short stature, congenital optic atrophy and brachytelephalangy.
Early surgery for cataracts may be recommended, however some studies have suggested that spontaneous resolution of cataracts occurs in up to 50% of untreated patients.
Marfanoid habitus LFS is clinically distinguished from other X-linked forms of intellectual disability by the accompanying presence of marfanoid habitus.
This progresses to joint stiffness later in life when osteochondromas begin to develop, typically between infancy and mid-childhood, which decreases mobility.
Diagnosis Bloom syndrome is diagnosed using any of three tests - the presence of quadriradial (Qr, a four-armed chromatid interchange) in cultured blood lymphocytes, and/or the elevated levels of sister chromatid exchange in cells of any type, and/or the mutation in the BLM gene.
References External links Ireland’s Tallest Man Out of the Ordinary Ep.03 - Shaun Asbitt Interview with Shaun Aisbitt, Tallest Man in Ireland - 13th February 2023 The Tallest Men in Ireland, 1990 Shaun Aisbitt - 7 feet 3 inches Stuff The British Stole, episode The Irish Giant
Carolina also unveiled a mural which states the following: "Carolina, Tierra de Gigantes" (Carolina, Land of Giants).
Editions 2013 World Dwarf Games Participating nations 16 Countries: Sports 16 sports: Kurling is a modified form of the original curling game, adapted so that it can be played indoors on any smooth, flat surface, like a sports hall, instead of on ice.
Earle claimed to be one of the world's tallest humans standing 8 ft 6.5 in (2.60m) however his actual height was only around 7 ft 6 in (229 cm).
College career George was academically ineligible for his first season with the UNC Asheville Bulldogs and missed his second season after he dislocated a knee during preseason.
Irwin Keyes (March 16, 1952 – July 8, 2015) was an American actor and comedian, best known for his recurring role as Hugo on The Jeffersons.
A common comorbidity of the metabolic myopathy McArdle disease (Glycogen storage disease type V) is hypothyroidism.
See also List of people with dwarfism Dwarfism List of the verified shortest people References External links Shortest Man of the World Chandra Bahadur Dangi Archived 11 August 2014 at the Wayback Machine
While the case of Sanakht has often appeared in the medical literature as a potential case of pituitary disease, no definitive consensus has existed for many years on whether it was acromegaly or gigantism.
He starred in track and football at Hillsborough High School and was voted Handsomest Boy in his class his senior year.
Siddiqa Parveen (1987 or 1988 – 14 August 2024) was an Indian woman listed by Guinness World Records as the tallest living woman.
Routh Goshen, born Arthur James Caley (1824 – February 12, 1889), was most commonly known as Colonel Routh Goshen or the Arabian Giant or the Palestine Giant.
Other syndromes with clinical features similar to Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome include RAD50 deficiency and Cernunnos/NHEJ deficiency.
The finding of aortic root dilation in both disorders suggests that a mutation in an unspecified connective tissue regulating gene may contribute to the etiology of LFS.
Julius Koch (1872 – 30 March 1902), also known as Le Géant Constantin ("Constantin the Giant"), was one of the tallest people ever.
International Dwarf Sports Federation The International Dwarf Sports Federation oversees the organization of the World Dwarf Games.
Research has also shown that introducing parents of children with achondroplasia to support and advocacy groups at the time of diagnosis can improve outcomes.
The giant couple became a touring sensation and eventually fell in love; they married on June 17, 1871, in St Martin-in-the-Fields in London.
Hồ Văn Trung (8 December 1984 – 2 November 2019) was one of only 29 known people in medical history to reach a height of 8 feet (244 cm) or more.
At birth, neonates exhibit rostral to caudal lengths, head circumferences, and birth weights that are typically below the third percentile.
He is known best for his YouTube and TikTok videos showcasing a variety of content, which includes his family, all of whom have dwarfism.
For over fifteen years Wilson was a stand-in for Wallace Beery, and he is the grandfather of actress Shauna Bloom.
Thyrogenous dwarfism, td In 1929 a type of dwarfism was described in different breeds of Rhode Island Red chickens.
Yodotaki (Japanese: 淀滝, born 1784) was an Edo period Japanese sideshow performer, described in secondary sources as a remarkably tall and powerful strongwoman performer in Edo (modern Tokyo).
When the Roman mob heard that the Senate had selected two men from the patrician class, men whom the ordinary people held in no great regard, they protested, showering the imperial cortège with sticks and stones.
When he was nine years old, his family moved to the Greater Los Angeles area, where Kiel graduated from Baldwin Park High School.
Some types are autosomic while others are sex-linked, but when poultry breeders make reference to 'dwarf chickens' they usually refer implicitly to sex-linked recessive dwarfism due to the recessive gene dw, located on the Z chromosome.
His sufferings during this latter captivity made him, he declared, grow, and in his thirtieth year, having been of the same height since he was nine, he steadily increased until he was 3 feet 9 inches (1.14 m).
He was owner and operator of Giant's Camp Lodge and Fish Camp, a television repair shop and a tourist trailer court.
Cornelia de Lange syndrome has a widely varied phenotype, meaning people with the syndrome have varied features and challenges.
Perhaps his best-known movie role from that period was that of Reverend Lindquist in Sydney Pollack's 1972 film Jeremiah Johnson, starring Robert Redford.
Signs and symptoms Babies diagnosed with type IA are shorter than average at birth, which is a clear sign of growth failure.
He was 28 inches [71 cm] tall and weighed twenty-three pounds [10 kg] and was perfect in every respect.
Mureșan co-authored two young adult fitness and health books: The Boy's Fitness Guide and The Girl's Fitness Guide.
References Stina Kajsa i Wilhelmina Stålberg, Anteckningar om svenska qvinnor (1864) Åke Lundgren Sápmis jättinna (The Lapland giantess) Mattias Olofssons performance om Stor-Stina Further reading Stor-Stina at Svenskt kvinnobiografiskt lexikon
Author Tessa Harris made him one of the main characters in her novel The Dead Shall Not Rest, which examines the beginnings of forensic science, anatomy and surgery.
Early life Pesi was born on November 3, 1980, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, at Magee-Women's Hospital.
Mechanism of action Vosoritide works by binding to a receptor (target) called natriuretic peptide receptor type B (NPR-B), which reduces the activity of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3).
Still's disease amyloidosis acromegaly Treatment As the causes of local gigantism are varied, treatment depends on the particular condition.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Greener was an international basketball player for the Great Britain team and was often at the Crystal Palace National Sports Centre.
The WDG have been featured in a number of episodes on the American television series Little People, Big World on TLC.
Today the Dutch language still remembers him with the slang term "Cajanus voeten", for unusually large feet.
Only one affected woman and her (also affected) three daughters have been described in medical literature.
In August 2013, Win Zaw Oo announced his decision to surgically remove the tumour which caused his drastic height of 233 centimetres (92 in).
For example, mutations in the PTPN11 gene are associated with an increased tendency for pulmonary stenosis or leukemia, while mutations in the SOS1 gene are linked to relatively normal development and stature compared to other NS cases.
Patrick Murphy (1834–1862) was an Irish giant, born in Killowen, County Down on 15th June 1834 of parents James Murphy and mother Peggy (née Cunningham), who exhibited himself as a means of income.
Differential diagnosis The differential diagnosis of macrodystrophia lipomatosa includes a wide array of disorders which result in various degrees and patterns of limb overgrowth especially those occurring in childhood and adolescence.
If she were to die without any heirs, Goshen wanted his estate to go to his sister, Margaret Caley Gelling of Rochester, New York.
Congenital Congenital causes include: Klippel–Trénaunay syndrome Maffucci syndrome macrodystrophia lipomatosa neurofibromatosis, lipoatrophic diabetes.
Prophylactic antibiotics are considered to prevent urinary tract infections as those with NBS often have congenital kidney malformations.
Say-Field-Coldwell syndrome is a very rare genetic disorder which consists of triphalangeal thumbs, brachydactyly, camptodactyly, regular dislocation of the patella and short stature.
Molecular genetic testing for growth hormone receptor gene mutations confirms the diagnosis of LS, but clinical evaluation may include laboratory analysis of basal GH, IGF-1 and IGFBP levels, GH stimulation testing, and/or GH trial therapy.
There, at the London Pavilion, he performed on the same bill as the juggler Paul Cinquevalli, Katsnoshin Awata also a juggler, and the three acrobat troupes Craggs, Schäffers and Wartenburgs.
Jane Bunford (26 July 1895 – 1 April 1922) was a woman who was the tallest person ever from the United Kingdom measuring 2.41 metres (7 ft 11 in) at the time of her death (adjusted for spinal curvature).
Genetics In most of the patients analyzed, researchers identified missense de novo mutations in a set of genes.
Returning to the backbenches, he continued to mark himself as traditional rightwing Conservative, opposing tax increases and supporting capital punishment.
It lasted less than a year, and collapsed on 16 January 2017 following the resignation of deputy First Minister McGuinness in protest at the Renewable Heat Incentive scandal.
In a by-election in November 1945 he became MP for Kensington South, which he held until February 1950.
He was a former chairman of the Welsh Grand Committee and Member of the Speaker's Panel of Chairmen.
List of ministers Prime Minister and Cabinet Office Departments of state Law officers Parliament Departures from the Truss ministry There were resignations from the Truss ministry after forming a government on 6 September 2022.
Sturgeon, who had been Deputy First Minister under Salmond, was elected to succeed him by the SNP majority in the Scottish Parliament on 19 November 2014, before being officially sworn in in front of senior judges at the Court of Session the next day.
This resulted in a government crisis, where Yousaf faced the threat of a vote of no confidence now that the SNP was leading a minority government.
References Times Guide to the House of Commons, 1950, 1966 & 1979 Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs Independent obituary External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Nigel Fisher
39) (which provided subsidies for slum clearance) and the London Transport Bill 1931 — this was passed by a subsequent National government as the London Passenger Transport Act 1933 (23 & 24 Geo.
William Shepherd Morrison swaps the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for the Postmaster General with George Tryon and is succeeded as Minister of Food by Lord Woolton.
Noel-Baker had suggested to Blum that it would be best to send an admiral to London to win Chatfield over to opposing Axis intervention in Spain, which in turn might win Baldwin over as Chatfield had much influence with Baldwin on defence and foreign policies.
After Nottingham's resignation in 1704, Godolphin and Marlborough turned for support to the "Country" Whigs, led by Speaker Robert Harley.
A young William Ewart Gladstone held office as a Junior Lord of the Treasury, his first governmental post in a ministerial career that would span for the next sixty years.
Among his appointments was the former Welsh Liberal Democrat leader Kirsty Williams, who became Minister for Education.
The interest on advances to co-operative credit societies formed under the Agricultural Credits Act 1923 passed by the previous Conservative government was reduced to 4%.
Background and education Born in London as Frederick William Lawrence, he was the son of wealthy Unitarians who were members of the Liberal Party.
A strong chain of regional offices was set up within its planning ministry to provide a strong lead in regional development policies.
MP for Birmingham Yardley Evans was first elected to Parliament in the 1964 general election for the constituency of Birmingham Yardley.
In 1952, he was elected Member of Parliament in a by-election for Dundee East, where he served until his resignation in 1972.
Gordon Thomas Calthrop Campbell, Baron Campbell of Croy, (8 June 1921 – 26 April 2005) was a British Conservative politician and diplomat.
On November 21, 1902, Dunsmuir submitted his resignation to Lieutenant Governor Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière and recommended Edward Gawler Prior as his successor.
With the support of the Greens, Salmond was elected by the Scottish Parliament as First Minister on 16 May 2007, and was sworn in the following day after receiving the Royal Warrant from the Queen and taking the official oath of allegiance before judges at the Court of Session.
The Dunsmuir ministry was the combined Cabinet that governed British Columbia from June 15, 1900, to November 21, 1902.
This article details the first Thatcher ministry which she led at the invitation of Queen Elizabeth II from 1979 to 1983.
In 1923 Amwell was elected to the House of Commons as Member of Parliament (MP) for Islington West, a seat he held until 1931 and again from 1935 to 1947, and served under Ramsay MacDonald as Under-Secretary of State for Air from 1927 to 1931.
Law was again elected as an MP in the election of 1951, this time for Haltemprice, but he resigned this seat in January 1954 and in February was elevated to the House of Lords as Baron Coleraine of Haltemprice in the East Riding of the County of York.
Johnson inherited a minority government, supported by a confidence and supply agreement with the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland.
List of ministers See also Executive Council of Alberta List of Alberta provincial ministers References Works cited Further reading Alberta.
In 1926, during the General Strike, he became editor of the ILP's Socialist Review and of The Miner.
As chairman of the Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA) from 1981 to 1988 he oversaw the introduction of Channel 4 and TV-am.
Since King George II died in 1760, the ministry had been under pressure by the accession of George III, who disliked both Pitt and Newcastle and favoured John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute.
The first devolved executive of Scotland, it consisted of Scottish Labour and the Scottish Liberal Democrats, who formed a coalition on 14 May 1999.
Two weeks later, on October 4, Brown resigned from cabinet, and Prentice regained the portfolios while also remaining minister of finance and agriculture.
He served as Minister of Housing and Local Government from 1969 until the 1970 general election the following year.
Foreign policy Many historians have argued that the first Labour Government's most notable achievements were in foreign affairs, of which Ramsay MacDonald had devoted much time and effort, having taken the posts of both Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary.
Johnson increased the number of ministers attending the Cabinet to 33, four more than had attended the May Cabinet.
He served as Minister of National Insurance and then as Minister of Pensions and National Insurance from 1951 to 1955.
King William IV had dismissed the Whig government of Lord Melbourne on 14 November 1834 and asked Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, to form a government but he declined, instead recommending Sir Robert Peel.
Jeremy Hunt, Alun Cairns, and David Mundell retained the posts of health secretary, Welsh secretary, and Scottish secretary, respectively, which they had held during the second Cameron ministry.
External links John Strachey Archive at marxists.org Reg Groves 'John Strachey', International Socialism, 62 (1973).
However, he was later demoted to Lord Lieutenant of Ireland when he was outmanoeuvred by his rival Whigs, who formed the first Stanhope-Sunderland ministry.
In the Douglas-Home ministry, Rab Butler became Foreign Secretary, and Henry Brooke replaced Butler as Home Secretary.
From 1945 to 1947 he was Secretary of State for India and Burma, with a seat in the cabinet, and was involved in the negotiations that led to India's independence in 1947.
This is a list of the principal holders of government office during the second premiership of the Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham for four months in 1782.
Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities
When this led to an attempt to replace the conciliatory Southern Secretary, Lord Shelburne, Chatham finally roused himself enough to resign from his position as Lord Privy Seal, leaving Grafton as the nominal as well as real head of a ministry in which the Bedford faction was now stronger than ever.
Other changes included Lord Caldecote replacing Lord Maugham as Lord Chancellor, Sir John Anderson replacing Sir Samuel Hoare as Home Secretary (Hoare became Lord Privy Seal with a wide-ranging brief) and the return of Anthony Eden to the government as Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs.
It was headed by William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland, who became Prime Minister on 2 April 1783.
History Peel came to power for a second time after the Conservative victory in the General Election caused the Whig government of Lord Melbourne to resign.
It was led by the two Pelham brothers in Parliament, Prime Minister Henry Pelham in the House of Commons and Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle in the House of Lords.
References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by John Mackie
After several scandals including allegations of the sale of honours, the Conservatives withdrew their support after a meeting at the Carlton Club in 1922, and Bonar Law formed a government.
Though the government had little impact, it attracted derision through its plethora of new political names, which demonstrated the relative inexperience of the party.
He served as a Government Whip, 1961–62; Lord Commissioner of the Treasury and Scottish Whip, 1962–63; Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Scotland, 1963–64.
Cabinets Wilson ministry Callaghan ministry Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
Matthew Prior who had played an important part in the negotiating the Utrecht treaty was also imprisoned.
Political career Early in 1955, Morgan was adopted as Plaid Cymru candidate for the Wrexham constituency and contested the seat at the by-election in 1955, and at the general elections in 1955 and in 1959.
This resulted in the Green Party's two Ministers Patrick Harvie and Lorna Slater leaving government and their respective posts of Minister for Zero Carbon Buildings, Active Travel and Tenants' Rights and Minister for Green Skills, Circular Economy and Biodiversity being abolished.
On the Duke of York's succession as King James II in February 1685, Rochester returned as Lord High Treasurer.
Elizabeth Kempster was employed as their housekeeper in 1945 following an interview at Lincoln's Inn, and worked at their home, Fourways, in Surrey, where Sylvia Pankhurst was a frequent visitor.
23): Although the nominal leadership of the regency lay with John, Duke of Bedford (Gloucester's older brother), he spent most of his time ruling the English territories in France.
In the second Labour Government of 1929–31 Ramsay MacDonald appointed him Financial Secretary to the War Office (1929–30); Cowling says that MacDonald believed he had rescued Shinwell's ministerial career when no minister would take him.
His youngest brother, Roger Cuthbert Wakefield, was an early British & Irish Lion, touring on the 1927 British Lions tour to Argentina.
He continued his print career in Fleet Street, where he worked on publications including John Bull, Everybody's Weekly, London Illustrated, News Review, Today, Education, The Daily Mirror and the News Chronicle.
In a break from the previous non-partisan governments, it was the first to be composed on party lines, and consisted of members of the Conservative Party.
He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Royal Television Society, and a patron of Sustrans.
Personal life On 26 January 1929, Lord Coleraine (when still Richard Law) married Mary Virginia Nellis, the second daughter of Abraham Fox Nellis, of Rochester, New York.
He resigned from the House of Commons in 1962, when he was appointed as Commissioner for Malta, 1962–64, becoming High Commissioner 1964–1965.
Safe for Democracy: The Anglo-American Response to Revolution, 1913-1923 (1987) diplomatic history Grieves, Keith.
It refers to the fact that, for perhaps the first time in English history, effective power in a royal council was shared by a group of men, a cabal, rather than dominated by a single "favourite".
The Aberdare constituency was abolished in 1983, but Evans was elected for the new Cynon Valley constituency which had very similar boundaries to the previous seat.
Jack Straw became the first MP Justice Secretary and Lord Chancellor, declaring it a new Great Office of State.
Following his untimely death on 10 February 1984, Evans's funeral service was held at St Elvan's Church, Aberdare.
He was a member of the Detection Club, and contributed to their 2020 anthology Howdunit: A Masterclass in Crime Writing by Members of the Detection Club.
The Cabinet set a new record for ethnic minority representation, with four secretaries of state and two additional ministers coming from minority backgrounds; 17% of the Cabinet were from BAME backgrounds, compared to 14% of the UK population.
Granville's successor as Paymaster-General is not in the Cabinet February 1852: Fox Maule succeeds Sir John Cam Hobhouse as President of the Board of Control.
2012 to 2013 In September 2012, Salmond made a snap reshuffle in light of the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.
The ministry successfully prosecuted Robert Walpole over charges of profiteering and had him imprisoned in the Tower of London for a period.
The Cabinet Robert Walpole served as both First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer between 1715 and 1717.
The proposal did not pass, but caused tensions within the coalition which contained both proponents and opponents of political reform.
Long standing ministers such as Shona Robison and Angela Constance announced their resignation due to personal circumstances, with Keith Brown resigning to take his role as SNP Depute Leader.
The National Liberals and Conservatives merged at constituency level in 1947 and fully assimilated in 1968.
Following the 2 March 2017 elections to the sixth Northern Ireland Assembly, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
The ministry was replaced by the Watson ministry on 27 April 1904 after the Labour Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
He was instrumental in establishing Royal Ordnance Factories at Robertstown and Rhigos during World War II as well as the new Hirwaun Trading Estate in 1945.
Richard's brother Charlie, a lieutenant in the King's Own Scottish Borderers, was killed at the Second Battle of Gaza in April 1917, followed by brother James, a captain in the Royal Fusiliers, who was shot down and killed on 21 September 1917.
Cabinet appointments McConnell announced his second government on 20 May 2003 and promised to "restore public confidence in devolution" with a pledge to tackle issues including youth crime and anti-social behaviour within communities.
In 1954, the National Liberal MP for Harwich, Sir Stanley Holmes was elevated to the peerage as Baron Dovercourt, and Ridsdale was selected as 'Conservative and Liberal' candidate to contest the consequent by-election.
Political career Denham served as a House of Lords whip from 1961 until 1964, under both Harold Macmillan and Alec Douglas-Home.
He was co-chair of the socialist Zionist Poale Zion (Great Britain), but was critical of Israeli policy (e.g.
The new party swiftly formed an alliance with the Liberals with a view to forming a coalition government at the next election.
He was a Member of Parliament for 23 years, from 1964 to 1987, for Willesden East and later Brent East, with 14 years on the front bench.
Florence Horsbrugh became the first woman to hold a Cabinet post in a Conservative government when she was appointed Minister of Education in 1951.
Soon after, Chatham managed to largely alienate the heretofore cautiously friendly Rockingham faction by dismissing their ally Lord Edgcumbe, the Treasurer of the Household.
Dafydd Elystan Elystan-Morgan, Baron Elystan-Morgan (7 December 1932 – 7 July 2021), known as Elystan Morgan, was a Welsh politician.
Later parliamentary career Following his electoral defeat, Evans became Director of the International Defence and Aid Fund.
Ministry See also 1734 British general election 1741 British general election 1742 vote of no confidence in the Walpole ministry Notes References == Further reading ==
Yvette Cooper moved to be Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs, replacing David Lammy.
List of ministers Prime Minister and Cabinet Office Departments of state Law officers Parliament 2023 August mini-reshuffle On 31 August 2023, Sunak carried out a mini-reshuffle.
1909 shuffle The Rutherford led Liberals gained a strong mandate in the March 1909 election and continued to form government.
Only four members of the Cabinet (Derby himself, St Leonards, Lonsdale, and Herries) were existing Privy Councillors and many others were complete political unknowns.
During his time as Commonwealth Secretary he had responsibility for trying to reach a settlement of the Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) question and for implementing sanctions against the regime there.
Gay rights Morgan is recorded as having voted against the partial decriminalisation of homosexuality in 1967, although in 1982 he claimed that he had actually abstained.
Early life Son of naval officer Sir Thomas Fisher and Aimée Constance, daughter of Walter Loveridge, of Oaken, Staffordshire, Fisher was educated at Eton College and Trinity College, Cambridge.
Prior was dismissed as premier by Lieutenant Governor Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière over a conflict of interest scandal that implicated several ministers, including Prior.
He returned to DC Thomson in 1946, but left the firm after clashing with them over his right to join a trade union.
Alistair Darling replaced Brown as Chancellor of the Exchequer while his portfolio at Trade and Industry was renamed Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform and given to John Hutton.
Upon the Conservatives return to power at the 1970 general election, he was once again made a whip under Edward Heath.
He fought in the Second World War with the Royal Artillery from 1940, winning the Military Cross and Bar.
His Chancellor of the Exchequer, Benjamin Disraeli, was instrumental in passing the Second Reform Act in 1867.
Education The Attlee government ensured provisions of the Education Act 1944 were fully implemented, with free secondary education becoming a right for the first time.
After retiring from the House of Commons at the 1955 general election, he was raised to the peerage as Baron Clitheroe, of Downham in the County Palatine of Lancaster, on 21 June 1955.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
Ifor Davies (9 June 1910 – 6 June 1982), born Ivor Davies, was a Welsh Labour politician who was the MP for Gower from 1959 until his death.
First Minister Humza Yousaf formed a SNP minority government, and faced separate motions of no confidence from Labour and the Conservatives, following the Greens withdrawing support.
Cabinet May 1999 to October 2000 Changes Lord Hardie unexpectedly resigned from his post as Lord Advocate on 17 February 2000.
The ministry finally collapsed in 1710 when Queen Anne turned to Harley and the Tories, dismissing Godolphin and the Junto Whigs, and, soon after, Marlborough himself.
5 July 2022 – 6 September 2022 Changes Sajid Javid resigned as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on 5 July.
In October 1768, the Bedfords persuaded Grafton that it would be necessary to remove Shelburne from the ministry.
He served as Secretary of State for the Colonies between 1945 and 1946 and as First Lord of the Admiralty between 1946 and 1951.
Shona Robison resigned as Deputy First Minister on 8 May in favour of Kate Forbes, but was re-appointed as Swinney's Finance Secretary with additional responsibility for local government.
The second Broad Bottom administration lasted from Pelham's resumption of power until his death in 1754.
Following a series of close votes and much criticism of the weakness of the Assembly administration, Labour and the Liberal Democrats formed a coalition in October 2000 with the two parties sharing power, including ministerial appointments, with Labour the majority party.
The Conservatives had been weakened by the defection of the Peelites, and many of the new Cabinet ministers were men of little experience.
As the name of the ministry would suggest, Lord Clarendon (earlier Lord Hyde) was, in effect, the leader of the government.
Unlike all previous Ministries, it consisted almost entirely of men who had immigrated to Western Australia in the previous two decades.
The Liberal Nationals had previously not held office in MacDonald's previous National Government, though two junior ministers appointed as Liberals had defected to them.
It was believed that the Government Equalities Office would become its own department headed by an Equalities Secretary; however, it was not given Secretary of State status.
Among the most influential members of the first Newcastle ministry was Henry Fox, who served as Leader of the House of Commons from November 1755, having initially entered the Cabinet in his earlier position of Secretary at War in December 1754.
On oil in 1972 Campbell was against any move to pump oil revenues directly into the Scottish economy despite Heath asking government departments to explore such an arrangements to help revive Scotland's economy with "its own resources".
Richard Kidston Law, 1st Baron Coleraine (27 February 1901 – 15 November 1980), was a British Conservative politician.
As a National Government it was a coalition of members of the Conservative Party, Liberal Nationals and National Labour, as well as a number of individuals who belonged to no political party.
During the 1930s, with the Labour Party numbers in the Commons severely depleted after the 1931 General Election, Hall began to speak on a broader range of subjects having previously focused mainly on issues relating to his mining background.
At the Labour Party Conference at Scarborough that autumn, he lost his place as an elected constituency representative on the Labour Party National Executive Committee (NEC), the members of which were increasingly elected by Bevanites in the constituency parties.
Evans feared that devolution would lead to the centralization of local government authority in Cardiff, as well as the appointment of an additional 1300 civil servants.
There was widespread media and public debate as to whether the Labour Party could ever win a general election again, as they had failed to do so in 1992, despite the Conservative government having been in power for over a decade and presiding over a recession for the second time.
Law argued: To turn our backs on Utopia, to see it for the sham and the delusion that it is, is the beginning of hope.
On 15 November 1945, shortly after he had been re-elected at the 1945 general election, he was ennobled as Baron Morrison, of Tottenham in the County of Middlesex.
Chatfield had a marked pro-Nationalist bias, once writing that the Spanish Nationalist cause was "a much nobler cause than the Reds".
He was replaced by Steve Barclay, the former Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, who is in turn replaced by Kit Malthouse, former Home Office minister as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
With the passage of the House of Lords Act 1999, Denham and almost all other hereditary peers lost their automatic right to sit in the House of Lords.
Attribution: This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
Cabinet January 1828 – November 1830 Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
The influential Joseph Chamberlain was appointed President of the Local Government Board while future party leader and Prime Minister Henry Campbell-Bannerman was made Secretary of State for War.
She also appointed Vikki Howells as Minister for Further and Higher Education, and added Culture and Skills to Jack Sargeant's portfolios, alongside Social Partnership.
Sunderland, who served variously as Northern Secretary and Southern Secretary, and additionally as Lord President of the Council from 1685, remained in post until his dismissal by James II in October 1688, when he fled to Rotterdam.
The King disliked Pitt, but Pitt's influence in the Commons had led to his crucial appointment as Southern Secretary in a ministry nominally headed by Devonshire.
The most prominent policy of the National Government in the early 1930s was the proposal to introduce Indian Home Rule, a measure fiercely opposed by the Diehard wing of the Conservative party, with Winston Churchill one of the most open opponents.
Political career Disciple of Oswald Mosley In 1923 Strachey began writing for the Independent Labour Party (ILP) publication New Leader.
January 2001 – Peter Mandelson is dismissed as Northern Ireland Secretary and is succeeded by John Reid.
The Watson ministry (Labour) was the 3rd ministry of the Government of Australia, and the first national Labour government formed in the world.
The correspondence file relating to the Shinwell portrait bust is held as part of the Thornhill Papers (2006:56) in the archive of the Henry Moore Foundation's Henry Moore Institute in Leeds and the terracotta remains in the collection of the artist.
Eventually, Evans was one of six Labour MPs to oppose devolution in the referendum of 1979, when the government proposals were heavily defeated.
John Elvidge stood down as the Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government in June 2010 and was succeeded by Peter Housden.
A significant industrial expansion took place, such as in the metal trades, in printing, in the clothing and processing industries, and in new industries such as electrical supply, fibrous-plaster works, and wire-marking.
As no separate Chancellor of the Exchequer had been appointed, Denman held the post pro tempore by virtue of being Lord Chief Justice.
The Fourth Executive was, under the terms of the Northern Ireland Act 1998, a power-sharing coalition.
Coal pits, steel plants, machine-tools and shipyards were particularly hard hit, most of all in Scotland, Northern Ireland and the north of England.
Theresa May formed the first May ministry in the United Kingdom on 13 July 2016, after having been invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government.
As commissioners sent by the French Republic to Saint-Domingue had abolished slavery, an institution legal in areas of the colony under British occupation, most of Saint-Domingue's Black inhabitants rallied to the Republican cause.
The final suspension came on 14 October 2002 after the Stormontgate controversy surrounding an alleged Provisional Irish Republican Army spy ring based in Stormont.
He was able to retain his seat at the 1983 general election, but was deselected in 1985 after a bitter struggle, described as "political 'murder'" in his Guardian obituary, and replaced as Labour candidate in Brent East by Ken Livingstone at the 1987 general election.
Unemployment remained low and the economy remained strong with more than a decade of unbroken growth, and education and healthcare had changed for the better as a result of expenditure by Labour.
348), Leake and his supporters set about "the best organised campaigning the state had ever witnessed" for the by-elections, and three of the ministers—Frank Wilson, Matthew Moss and Frederick Moorhead were defeated.
A number of other improvements were introduced in 1977, with Attendance Allowances extended to cover disabled foster children and non-contributory disablement pensions extended to married women whose invalidity prevented them from carrying out their household tasks.
Until 1717, he held the position of Northern Secretary and was the de facto leader of the Whig administration.
It succeeded the James Ministry on 10 August 1904 after the 1904 election boosted Labor's seat count from 8 to 22 in the 50-seat Legislative Assembly.
Yousaf later confirmed that Johnston Carmichael had resigned around October 2022 but he was unaware of this until after winning the leadership campaign.
The Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government attends all meetings of the cabinet in their capacity as the principal advisor on government policy to the first minister and secretary to the Scottish cabinet.
Chatfield was less interested in having the Marine join the proposed war than the offer that the British Mediterranean fleet could use the bases at Toulon and Bizerta for docking and repairs.
Sir Vince Cable, the former Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, also told news outlets on 19 April 2017 that the Liberal Democrats would not enter into a coalition with Labour.
MacDonald summed up what he regarded as the achievements of the conference, in a speech before the signing ceremony: We have stopped the replacement of battleships and reduced their numbers.
The premiership was trapped between these two paradigms as the 'old world' started to fail and the 'new world' lacked intellectual credibility and political backing.
Personal life He married Nicola Madan, daughter of Geoffrey Spencer Madan and his wife Marjorie Noble, and had three children.
He remained in power until 1756 when his government collapsed following the fall of Minorca and the fierce criticism that he had come under for his handling of the Seven Years' War that was engulfing Europe.
A deacon in the Presbyterian Church of Wales at Capel-y-Garn in Pen-y-garn, he was making the point that God did not need the protection of the law.
Leake advised the Governor to dissolve Parliament, but the request was declined and on 12 November, Leake advised the Legislative Assembly that as soon as the Supply Bill had passed a third reading, his government would resign.
At first, Leader of the Opposition Frederick Henry Piesse was asked to form a Ministry, but on 18 November he advised that he had been unable to form an acceptable Ministry, and Alf Morgans was sent for.
Billy Hughes, who died in 1952, was the last surviving member of the First Fisher ministry; Hughes was also the last surviving member of the Watson ministry, Third Fisher ministry, Second Hughes ministry and Third Hughes ministry.
Between 1757 and 1762, at the height of the Seven Years' War, the Pitt–Newcastle ministry governed the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Pitt, who moved to the House of Lords as Earl of Chatham upon his accession to the ministry, was determined to form a ministry of "measures, not men" that would give office to the most competent men without regard to faction.
The response of opinion in the country, evidenced by petitions, resolutions of borough corporations and the actions of the London mobs, showed strong opposition to the coalition and support for Pitt.
Jones maintained the existing One Wales coalition agreement with Plaid Cymru, established by Morgan.
House of Commons Elected to Parliament in 1959, he served as Member of Parliament for the constituency of Moray and Nairn until February 1974 when he was defeated by Winnie Ewing of the Scottish National Party.
After the collapse of Lord Derby's minority government, the Whigs and Peelites formed a coalition under the Peelite leader George Hamilton-Gordon, 4th Earl of Aberdeen.
He was briefly succeeded by Frederick Pethick-Lawrence, and then by Arthur Greenwood, who had left the war cabinet, from 22 February 1942 until 23 May 1945.
Rhodri Morgan was named as Acting First Secretary on 9 February and confirmed as the permanent First Secretary on 15 February 2000.
Arms References External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Richard Law Newspaper clippings about Richard Law, 1st Baron Coleraine in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
Many families from Birmingham also moved several miles to the south of the city to the expanding Worcestershire town of Redditch.
Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon took the leadership unopposed at the SNP's annual conference on 14 November 2014.
History With the country remaining at war, Grenville aimed to form the strongest possible government and so included most leading politicians from almost all groupings, although some followers of the younger Pitt, led by George Canning, refused to join.
Canning's government was therefore recruited from the moderate wing of the Tory Party, known as the Canningites, with the support of several members of the Whig Party.
Griffifths replaced Jane Hutt in the Social Justice portfolio, and Hutt assumed Griffifths' former position as Trefnydd of the Senedd, with Hutt also keeping her position as Chief Whip.
The Prime Minister, Tony Blair, who turned 44 years old days after leading Labour to victory, was the youngest prime minister of the twentieth century.
The second Deakin ministry succeeded the Reid ministry, which dissolved on 5 July 1905 following the resignation of George Reid after the Protectionists withdrew their support and gained support from the Labour Party.
On 16 May 2007, a few hours after Salmond was sworn in by parliament, he announced his intention to form a government composed of five cabinet secretaries and ten junior ministers.
Given that it was not considered appropriate for a prime minister to be a member of the House of Lords, Alec Douglas-Home and Lord Hailsham both disclaimed their peerages under the Peerage Act 1963, and became known respectively as Sir Alec Douglas-Home and Quintin Hogg.
Chief minister is a term used retroactively by historians to describe servants of the English monarch who presided over the government of England, and after 1707, Great Britain, before 1721.
The Irish Church The principal issue of the 1868 parliamentary session was the Irish question, manifested this time in the debate over the Anglican Church of Ireland.
More claimed that Somervell threatened to shoot him and the gun went off during a subsequent struggle, while Somervell claimed that More "rushed" him after noticing the gun in his pocket and it was then discharged during the struggle.
On August 6, Woodburn announced he would resign as the minority leader but would remain as a senator.
New Jack claimed that the two met prior to the match and agreed to use a "piece of metal" to inflict injury.
Robertson appeared as Spanky in a revival of John Byrne's Slab Boys trilogy, and as Romeo in Romeo and Juliet at the Citizens' Theatre.
Many news reports said he refused to refer to the Conservative congregation as a "synagogue" since it is non-Orthodox.
He used his newspaper, the Independent Monitor, to lambast Republicans during the Reconstruction era as carpetbaggers, scalawags, and freed blacks, and attacked fellow legislator Shandy Jones and others with a cartoon of them being lynched.
He was later investigated by the FBI, which discovered no links to terrorism or any violation of laws occurring during the Alaska incident.
He claimed that he was incarcerated for 42 days in Mangalore before being released on conditional bail by Karnataka High Court Justice Ashok B.
When the trial began in July 2012, Terry entered a not guilty plea and was acquitted of the charge on 13 July 2012.
Method The practice of using the handgun itself as a blunt-force weapon began with the appearance of muzzle loaders in the 15th century.
A McDonald's employee, Vernon Hackett, filmed the beating and the attempts of another employee and a customer to intervene in the attack.
Lewis on December 13, 1982, at the New York Public Library, after identifying him as the author of the Tylenol extortion letter.
New York City councilman Charles Barron stated that the root of the problem was a need for jobs to keep young people out of trouble; he also suggested additional funding for community patrols to act as lookouts.
Activism In August 2006, Giggs became an ambassador for UNICEF UK, in recognition for his work with Manchester United's 'United for UNICEF' partnership with the children's organisation.
Etika was later found dead that same day by the New York Police Department, his death was ruled a suicide-by-drowning.
The word 'psychic' is used to denote the fact that the actus reus of the offence that is correctly described as assault consists of affecting the mind of the other person (whereas battery consists of the application of force).
Career 2016–2018: Modelling and early roles Ward began his career while he was at college when he signed with the talent agency.
The incident was first made public in 2021, and initial reports in 2019 said Vizquel and the White Sox parted amicably.
Mahendra Kumar (died 25 April 2020) was the convener of the Karnataka, India, branch of the Bajrang Dal, an Indian Hindu youth organisation.
Personal life, health issues and death From 2009 to 2011, Young was in a relationship with Terri Runnels; after the relationship ended, Runnels filed a lawsuit against Young for libel and to block distribution of sexually explicit photos he had of Runnels.
2019–2022: Top Boy and other work Ward's breakout year came in 2019, when he starred as Jamie in Netflix's revival and third series of Top Boy.
Between 1887 and 1930, Bowlby served in a number of nobility positions, likely stopping when he did due to lawsuit filed against him which accused him of three counts of assaulting a minor, for which he was later acquitted.
In that case, the plaintiff told the defendant (while putting his hand on his sword) that he would not stab him, because the circuit judge was visiting town for the local assizes.
However, after this his performances dropped off and assistant manager Mark Bowen advised Nzonzi to stop his 'theatrical sulks'.
In his defence, Ferdinand said he had feared he was going to be robbed of his £64,000 watch and was defending himself.
Do not deceive yourself because you encountered a people with no knowledge of war and got the better of them; for by God if we fight you, you will find that we are real men!
Not bad." World Class Championship Wrestling (1984–1985) The Midnight Express with Cornette had a short stay in World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW) in Texas where they feuded mainly with The Fantastics (Bobby Fulton and Tommy Rogers).
Esteban Santiago-Ruiz, who flew in to the airport from Alaska and committed the shooting with a Walther PPS 9mm semi-automatic pistol, was disarmed and taken into custody by a Broward County Sheriff's Office (BSO) deputy within 85 seconds of the first shots being fired.
Charles Penfold Ingram (24 April 1833 – 20 August 1868) was an English doctor of medicine and a cricketer who played first-class cricket for Cambridge University in 1854 and 1859.
Spain As of summer 2022, Spanish police had registered 23 cases in Catalonia and 12 in the Basque Country.
Three days later, a freed Anderson made a report to police that he had been driven to a cottage in Devon and chained to a bed against his will, at which point Joyce Bernann McKinney had attempted to seduce and then raped him by forcing him to penetrate her.
McBurnie moved up to the under-21 team in 2015, and he made 12 appearances at that level, scoring 2 goals.
Police found an apparent suicide note inside Woodson's purse that declared her intentions and her reasons.
Robertson starred with Dawn Steele on Sea of Souls, they had previously appeared together in The Slab Boys.
In July 2018, Jordon was arrested on suspicion of assault, when an argument in a pub spilled over to a fight on the street.
Etymology The term buffaloing is documented as being used in the Wild West originally to refer to the act of being intimidated or cheated by bluffing.
Reportedly, many bars and restaurants throughout London have omitted "Ask for Angela" in employee training.
Enough evidence was found by a grand jury to return a true bill, and Bowlby was brought to court on 4 April, pleading not guilty.
In the long term it is estimated that one out of five victims will walk with a limp for the rest of their lives.
Individuals who develop psychological disorders following sexual assault have increased frequency and severity of psychopathology compared with individuals who have not experienced sexual assault.
After two years in Qatar he signed a one-year contract with Turkish Süper Lig club Konyaspor in August 2023.
Doctors diagnosed him with numerous broken bones, trauma to the genital area and gangrene of the legs.
Statistics About 2% of crimes recorded in England and Wales in the 2000s and 2010s are personal robberies.
NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly later stated that he was avoiding referring to the attacks as part of any sort of trend to avoid further copycat attacks and has instead been labeling them as hate crimes.
The first took place in the Gazdagrét district, targeting Zoltán T., a far-right extremist, who was leaving a post office.
By region Africa High incidence of acid assaults have been reported in some African countries, including Nigeria, Uganda, and South Africa.
He reprised the role in August 2017, becoming a regular cast member until 31 January 2019, with a brief appearance on 20 December 2024.
He got one more title shot, against Chávez on September 17, 1994 in Las Vegas, but, years removed from his prime, he was stopped by Chávez in the eighth round.
During an interview for promotion of the album, Green admitted that he would have liked to duet with Marvin Gaye: "In those days, people didn't sing together like they do now." In 2009, Green recorded "People Get Ready" with Heather Headley on the album Oh Happy Day: An All-Star Music Celebration.
According to the first paragraph of Gladys Ward's 1932 masters thesis at the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, no one was truer to the white man's cause than Randolph and he was idolized by many.
He resigned in protest, but his constituents ratified his conduct by overwhelmingly reelecting him to his seat within a month.
He writes that the Jews had assumed a contentious attitude towards Muhammad, and as a group possessing substantial independent power, they posed a great danger.
Ferdinand won the Premier League Player of the Month award in January 2006, following his brother Rio to become the first brothers to win the award.
Somervell inherited Sorn Castle and its estate from his father Graham Somervell (born Graham Russell) in 1881, but sold it to the McIntyre family in 1907.
Banu Qaynuqa In the 7th century, the Banu Qaynuqa were living in two fortresses in the south-western part of the city of Yathrib, now Medina, having settled there at an unknown date.
However, if it is tried, it is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or both.
McBurnie later spoke about his first season as a professional, describing it as "ridiculous." He also spoke about his excitement ahead of the 2014–15 season.
Ward described the incident in the biography."The car started with a jerk, and he was thrown backward full length.
Malicious castration is a common law criminal offense consisting of the intentional maiming of another person's genitalia.
His final stop in the major leagues was with the Kansas City Cowboys but he lasted only 6 games in which he played poorly and his major league baseball career ended.
Going to the 12th and final round, Taylor led by wide margins on two of the three scorecards, and his corner famously told him that he needed to win that round.
The team announced that, following the game, the team would auction off the jerseys on behalf of the synagogue.
She found the defendant and searched him under section 1 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984.
Fourteen soccer fans from the same section of the stadium felt a prick and subsequently became unwell, although initial toxicological reports found nothing.
Revocation of bond While he was free on $1 million bond, Ludwick allegedly made plans to skip bail and flee the country.
The resulting injury can be quite severe, involving flesh split by nails, broken skulls, broken limbs, punctured lungs, and other serious damage.
See also Battery Assault occasioning actual bodily harm Grievous bodily harm References Archbold Criminal Pleading, Evidence and Practice, 1999, paragraphs 19–166 to 19–189 at pages 1605 to 1611 External links Crown Prosecution Service
The son of Hugh Ingram (1790–1863), a surgeon, and his wife Mary Bostock (1796–1879), he was born at Steyning in Sussex and died there as well.
Roma On 14 August 2018, Nzonzi signed for Serie A club Roma for an initial fee of €26.65 million, plus performance-related clauses that could be worth an additional €4 million.
He was struck by advertising boards and when he was lying on the floor without his helmet, was stamped and kicked in the head.
He held world championships in two weight classes, including the IBF junior welterweight title from 1988 to 1990, and the WBA welterweight title from 1991 to 1992.
He won a by-election in 1890, but he lost his seat to William Birkmyre, the Liberal candidate, in the 1892 general election.
As a result of his knee injury in 2002 and a follow-up operation, he appeared in only 64 games in 2003.
Taylor won his following three fights, including a second-round knockout over number four ranked welterweight Chad Broussard.
State criminal proceedings Bowers was also charged with 36 state criminal counts, including 11 counts of criminal homicide, six counts of aggravated assault, six counts of attempted criminal homicide, and 13 counts of ethnic intimidation.
On 24 March 2012, Nzonzi scored his second goal of the season in a 2–1 loss against Bolton Wanderers.
Professional boxing record References External links Boxing record for Meldrick Taylor from BoxRec (registration required) Meldrick Taylor at Olympedia Meldrick Taylor at Olympics.comMeldrick Taylor at Olympic.org (archived)
They have two children, both born in Salford, and lived in Worsley, Greater Manchester, close to where the player grew up.
War criminals from other conflicts, such as the Yugoslav Wars, have also had their citizenship stripped after their involvement in war crimes became known.
In January 2022, after holding an earlier evidentiary hearing, Judge Ambrose denied Bowers's motion to suppress evidence of statements he made after being arrested by police, inside an ambulance, and at the hospital the day of the attack.
He married his wife, Annie Margaret Gedge, on 8 August 1889, and had four sons: Henry Russell Bowlby, Maj Hugh Salvin Bowlby, Cuthbert Francis Bond Bowlby, and Oliver Gerard Bowlby, and two daughters: Margaret Bowlby and Agatha Frances Bowlby.
The first of many posthumous albums appeared in 1980; Sid Vicious, released by EMI sub-label Innocent Records, has as its jacket image the photo of Vicious's body being removed from 63 Bank St.
On August 26, 2011, Dane Hall was curb stomped in an attack outside a gay bar in Salt Lake City, Utah.
The criteria for a charge under section 47 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861 do not distinguish between members of the public and police officers as the victim.
Widely considered one of baseball's all-time best fielding shortstops, Vizquel won 11 Gold Glove Awards, including nine consecutive from 1993 to 2001.
In November 2020, McBurnie played in both of Scotland's UEFA Euro 2020 play-off matches (against Israel and Serbia), scoring in the penalty shoot-out win in the latter, which qualified Scotland for their first major tournament in over 20 years.
After playing no part in Limerick's successful Munster League campaign, he made a number of appearances throughout the subsequent National League, including at centre-forward in a second successive semi-final defeat.
Modern American statutes may define assault as including: an attempt to cause or purposely, knowingly, or recklessly causing bodily injury to another negligently causing bodily injury to another with a dangerous weapon (assault with a deadly weapon).
His 2002 autobiography, Omar!: My Life on and Off the Field, co-written with Bob Dyer, spent four weeks on the New York Times Best Seller List.
Joining him at Black House were a former classmate of his from the University of Pennsylvania, and a contractor.
Music: Sarah Vaughn) Fur, Norwegian National Ballet (Music: Keith Jarrett) Le Chant du Rossignol, Leipzig Ballet (Music: Igor Stravinsky) Killed, Les Ballets de Monte Carlo (Solo.
Hanson lives in Derbyshire; previously with his wife and two children but was prohibited from visiting the marital home in February 2024 at a court hearing.
Wilson declined, saying that he could not legally or by personal conviction participate, and calling dueling "the lingering relic of a barbarous civilization".
By summer the ensuing moral panic have eventually faded when media started to be more critical to the reports, and the number of rumors gradually decreased.
Indeed, the episode implicitly attributed this to pugilistic dementia—mentioning, time and again, how Taylor was well past his prime as a fighter.
Music: The Smashing Pumpkins, Jules Massenet, Erich Wolfgang Korngold, Ethel Smyth, Debbie Wiseman) 2023 In the Dutch Mountains, Nederlands Dans Theatre II (full-length.
Lawmakers Several pro-Beijing lawmakers, including Priscilla Leung and Ann Chiang, defended the officers, stating that their actions were the result of being provoked by Tsang.
The book "Archbold" says that this test applies to any case where the injury was not the direct result of the defendant's act.
He made his debut 13 days later in a 3–3 home draw with Atalanta, as a half-time substitute for Bryan Cristante with the team 3–1 down.
If you were to engage us in fight, you will realise that we are genuine war experts." O Muhammad, you seem to think that we are your people.
by, among other things, causing lenders to withdraw their financing offers or change the terms under which they would provide financing." Ludwick then dropped his lawsuit.
The defendant was arrested and was later discovered to have HIV and hepatitis C, though PC Hill was not infected.
Shafiullah told the court about his last telephone conversation with Sheikh Mujibur Rahman,When I spoke to Bangabandhu, upon hearing me he said, "Safiullah your force has attacked my house.
On November 6, the jury returned a verdict of not guilty after deliberating for around seven hours in total.
Paul High School in Virginia and attended University of Virginia's College at Wise but did not graduate.
In June 2017, following a few months in jail, three of the convicted were granted bail by the Court of Appeal, namely: Lau Cheuk-ngai, Lau Hing-pui, and Wong Wai-ho.
Brooks also required medical attention before leaving the Capitol; he had hit himself above his right eye with one of his backswings.
In February 2024, he trained with EFL Championship club Sheffield Wednesday, with manager Danny Röhl indicating a desire to sign the player.
He held that, as the defendant had recklessly given a false statement to PC Hill that put her in a dangerous situation with a foreseeable risk of harm through the omission, the Crown Court was incorrect to allow the motion to dismiss and allowed the appeal.
He returned as "ImJayStation" in late 2016, reuploading most content except material tied to his trespassing charges.
The track of Vicious singing the Johnny Thunders song "Born to Lose", which appears on Sid Sings, was recorded during this performance, as Vicious stepped in when Lydon left the stage to pose as Father Christmas.
The film gives extra details, from press reports of the day and from participants in the story, to the use of a (possibly fake) gun during Anderson's abduction, and Anderson being tied up during his alleged rape by McKinney.
Merely directing offensive remarks at the officer which amount to 'go away' will not necessarily withdraw any implied permission to enter or remain.
Robertson also starred in a one-man show Angels by Ronan O'Donnell at the "Play, a Pie and a Pint" event in Glasgow.
He said that he had "mustard and condiments on my uniform, and an onion hanging from my radio antenna that night".
However, this can be traced to significant underreporting in the 1980s and 1990s, along with a general lack of research on this phenomenon during that period.
On 31 August 2017, the last day of the English summer transfer window, a loan to Championship club Barnsley for the rest of the season was agreed.
Legacy Croatia's coach, Miroslav Blažević, has taken to wearing a kepi as a lucky charm and as a gesture of support for Nivel.
Robertson has said, "growing up in Govan put fire in my belly, made me push harder and also appreciate the things that have come my way." At the age of 11, Robertson joined a local dramatic arts group.
Woodburn was arrested on August 2, 2018, on simple assault, domestic violence, criminal mischief, and criminal trespass charges.
Prior to this, on March 16, the day before Mujib's birthday, there were bomb attacks in three places in Dhaka.
The New York Times called him "renowned" and said that as of 2023 he had for more than a decade been "a star" in European ballet.
The words "with or without hard labour" at the end were repealed for England and Wales by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948.
The method of killing for both Marinus Schöberl and Randall Townsend appears to have been inspired by this scene.
The critical TVB footage was also scrutinised, and the prosecutors had to call on various technical staff from TVB to help verify the authenticity of the video footage in light of challenges from the defence.
Other names given to assaults of this type include "knockout", "knockout king", "point 'em out, knock 'em out", and "polar-bearing" or "polar-bear hunting" (called such when the victim is white and the assailants are black).
However, following the political change in 1975 and during the subsequent military regime, he was released from custody.
Amateur career Taylor, one of many boxing champions hailing from the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, learned his craft in the gyms of his hometown and posted a 99–4 record as an amateur fighter.
To avoid the risk of damage or potential delay, pistol-whipping may be done with the gun held in an ordinary manner, hitting the target with an overhand strike from either the barrel or the flank of the gun above the trigger.
In 2019, British far-right activist Tommy Robinson was "milkshaked", having one thrown as a projectile in Bury on 1 May 2019, and another thrown the following day in Warrington while campaigning.
The coverage was extensive in part because the case was considered so anomalous, involving as it did the issue of rape of a man by a woman.
He also contested in the 2014 Indian general election from Balasore, Lok Sabha constituency as a BJP candidate, which he lost.
Another official inquiry by the National Commission for Minorities found that the killers cheered " bajrang dal Zindabad" before the attack.
According to Fred Donner, available sources do not elucidate the reasons for the expulsion of the Qaynuqa.
Brooks did not stop when his cane snapped; he continued thrashing Sumner with the piece that held the gold head.
Early life and education Luff was born in Philadelphia on September 14, 1856, to Walter Hamilton and Elizabeth Armstrong Luff.
Major League Baseball in Gilded Age Connecticut - The Rise and Fall of the Middletown, New Haven and Hartford Clubs.
In February 2021 McBurnie offered to pay for the funeral of a 26-year-old Swansea City fan who died.
His death is completely senseless." Wilcox's attempt at stopping Jerad Miller by using his concealed firearm also led to a debate over the necessity of concealed carry and its effectiveness during similar incidents.
Legal proceedings Markus Warnecke, a Braunschweig native in his late 20s, was arrested at the scene of the crime.
Despite placing second, DeCesare went on to briefly feud with eventual winner Christy Hemme, which led to a Lingerie Pillow Fight Match at the 2004 Taboo Tuesday pay-per-view in a losing effort.
This decision was criticised and in Haystead v DPP the Divisional court expressed the obiter opinion that common assault remains a common law offence.
Rise and death of Siraj Sikder Siraj Sikder was contemporary leading Bangladeshi Maoist leader, in Mujib's regime.
Kumar resigned from Bajrang Dal on 1 October 2008 after witnessing a Hindu woman who had decided to commit suicide with her three children but was saved by Christian missionaries.
When Playboy founder Hugh Hefner learned this, he invited her to his birthday party and convinced her to change her mind.
Belgium There was an incident of needle spiking of football supporters in May 2022 during a match between KV Mechelen and Racing Genk.
The LICADHO, the Association of the Blind in Cambodia, and the Cambodian Acid Survivors Charity assist survivors of acid attacks.
His follow-up album, Al Green Gets Next to You (1971), featured the hit R&B cover of the Temptations' "I Can't Get Next to You", recorded in a slow blues-oriented style.
He is one of only 31 players in baseball history to play in Major League games in four decades, and the only one who played shortstop.
In March, he teamed with fellow ECW alumni The Sandman and Justin Credible in a winning effort at an ECW show, and made an appearance in VIP Wrestling where he defeated Masada.
The attacks were carried out in similar ways, with the victims being ambushed from behind and then attacked with clubs, rubber hammers, telescopic batons, and pepper spray, in a manner similar to attacks carried out in Germany by left-wing extremists against far-right individuals.
Woodburn served on the Public and Municipal Affairs Committee and the Election Law and Internal Affairs Committee.
He toured the south and was normally squared off against Southern babyface tag team the Rock 'n' Roll Express.
The Bajrang Dal were reported to have stated that they were not against Christianity in the region but were offended by the alleged forcible conversions.
Chávez Over the next 18 months, Taylor won four more fights, setting up a unification bout with the WBC light welterweight champion Julio César Chávez on March 17, 1990 in Las Vegas.
In January 2023 it was announced that Ward was included on the longlist in the best supporting actor category for the 76th British Academy of Film and Television Arts awards.
Alternative names In Britain, especially historically at Oxford and Cambridge Universities in England, the term is known as debagging (derived from Oxford bags, a loose-fitting baggy form of trousers).
under section 7(1)(a), but that section has been superseded by section 66(1) of the Police (Northern Ireland) Act 1998 (c.
The new use of the term developed because the act of hitting someone with their revolver was seen as an additional insult to the character of the victim.
McKinney was ordered to a psychiatric evaluation and, on 11 July 2019, she was sent to the Los Angeles Court division for mentally incompetent defendants.
On 13 June 2025, two new charges of sexual penetration without consent were filed against Valencia Barrientos.
She's younger than me, she's a young woman and she's beautiful and she's sensitive and I care about her deeply." Brand, who married Perry without a prenuptial agreement, was eligible to claim half of the estimated $44 million she earned during their marriage but declined.
On the advice from his wife, after committing the murder, Groves surrendered himself at the police station and gave a full confession.
A few days prior, Green had sent Woodson to convalesce at the home of his friend after she had taken a handful of sleeping pills and slit her wrists.
Robertson featured in Steven Spielberg's Band of Brothers and played "Gash" in the Scottish comedy Rab C.
Nzonzi began his career with Ligue 2 side Amiens, impressing enough to earn a move to Premier League side Blackburn Rovers in 2009 for £650,000.
In the 5 years since its inception, the fund distributed $25 million to synagogues, mosques, and other nonprofit organizations.
The Irish Republican Army defined "political" crime as informing or fraternizing with British soldiers, while "normal" crime was judged to include vandalism, theft, joyriding, rape, selling drugs, and antisocial behaviour.
After reacting angrily to suffering a broken nose against Fulham, Nzonzi was told to keep his temperament in check by assistant manager David Kemp.
Jamelle Bouie of The Daily Beast was critical of the game's existence as a trend, comparing its existence to the "wilding" assault allegedly at hand in the Central Park jogger case and the often reported headlight flashing urban legend.
Goecke said the review had angered him, and that Hüster had written only two positive pieces about his work in the twenty years she'd been covering it.
In November, all four were found guilty: Zawacki was sentenced to ten years in prison for attempted murder; Reifschlaeger, Renger and Rauch were convicted of serious bodily harm.
* – Most laps led.) O'Reilly Auto Parts Series Gander Outdoors Truck Series * Season still in progress 1 Ineligible for series points ARCA Menards Series (key) (Bold – Pole position awarded by qualifying time.
After training with South African club Supersport United during the English summer, he rejoined Luton on 2 September 2010 on a contract until January 2011 after rejecting a deal with the South Africans.
Views on All Elite Wrestling All Elite Wrestling (AEW) executives The Young Bucks have accused Cornette of being a shock jock who says disparaging things about the company to get listeners for his podcast.
On 9 September 2017, Hayes lined out at centre-back in Limerick's 0-17 to 0-11 defeat of Kilkenny in the All-Ireland final.
His damaged car was leaking oil, and the police traced the oil trail back to the scene of the crash.
Ward starred alongside Olivia Colman, Colin Firth and Tanya Moodie in Sam Mendes' 2022 film Empire of Light.
Meldrick Taylor (born October 19, 1966) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1984 to 2002.
As a result of gangrene in the legs, doctors had to amputate both of his legs, his genitalia, and a finger.
Anton Julian Ferdinand (born 18 February 1985) is an English former footballer who most recently played for St Mirren as a centre back.
He is known for his portrayals of Pacey Witter on The WB's teen drama Dawson's Creek (1998–2003), Peter Bishop in the Fox science fiction series Fringe (2008–2013), a troubled married man on Showtime's The Affair (2014–2018), and Christopher Duntsch in the Peacock crime drama series Dr.
Pittsburgh mayor Bill Peduto said Trump should not have come, as the wounds were raw and the community was just beginning to mourn and hold funerals.
In August 2013, two Jewish women volunteer teachers – Katie Gee and Kirstie Trup from the UK – were injured by an acid attack by men on a moped near Stone Town in Tanzania.
Several assaults associated with the knockout game do not follow any particular pattern; in several instances, a single assailant attempted a one-punch attack while in others multiple assailants participated in a gang attack.
Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (2003, 2010) During 2003, New Jack wrestled occasional events for TNA wrestling.
The fact that the victim is a police officer is not, in itself, an aggravating factor which would justify more serious charge.
Jones retreated from Tuscaloosa in 1869 due to threats against him from Klansmen including Randolph and settled in Mobile.
For the purposes of section 89 of the Police Act 1996, any person who is carrying out surveillance in England and Wales under section 76A of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 is to be treated as if he were acting as a constable in the execution of his duty.
Corban graduated from the University of Northern Colorado with a bachelor's degree in Psychology and master's degree in Criminal Justice.
Personal life Hanson was born in Holbrook, Derbyshire, on 29 May 1978, to Philip Hanson and his wife Gillian.
Forensics Pistol whipping may leave unusual lacerations on the body of the injured due to various protruding details of the pistol.
According to several newspaper articles Nielsen was booted from the club with status "out" which, in effect, means so called bad standing.
We plan to record together." Turner struggled to find success due to his cocaine addiction and run-ins with the law.
A struggle ensued after Cleland reached for a .357 caliber handgun in the car that Gray was driving.
DeCesare appeared in multiple Playboy specials, including an individual direct to video special titled; Playboy Video Centerfold: Playmate of the Year Carmella DeCesare.
What Ike excelled at was leadership: conceptualization, organization, and execution." Turner's guitar style is distinguished by heavy use of the whammy bar to achieve a strong reverb-soaked vibrato, string bending, hammer-ons and triplets in his blues phrasing.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, many muggers were West Indian youths, largely due to socioeconomic discontent.
Despite the allegations, there has not been a single prosecution from needle spiking in the United Kingdom.
Australia South Australia's section 20(4) of the Criminal Law Consolidation Act 1935 creates the offence of assault causing harm.
In journalism and blogging, a listicle is an article that is structured as a list, which is often fleshed out with additional text relating to each item.
Charity campaigns during this period made use of hard-hitting images such as pictures of malnourished children with flies in their eyes.
Opinion corridor (Swedish: åsiktskorridor, Norwegian: meningskorridor) refers to a sociopolitical phenomenon that has been observed during the beginning of the 21st century in Sweden, and to some extent also in Norway.
Some commentators believe that this practice might give rise to a kleptocracy as a deviant mutation of a democracy if left unchecked.
See also Apparatchik Cadre management in the Soviet Union Nomenklatura References Further reading Гимпельсон Е.
This style of throbber dates from versions of UNIX appearing in the latter 1970s, and DR-DOS utilities in the 1980s, since it requires at least a character-cell addressable display—i.e.
Mapathons can also be an outside activity with online simultaneous map editing assisted by global positioning system trackers on mobile devices.
However, since the banks could only survive with government bailouts, these funds failed anyway, and so did the banks in the 2000s.
Spencer who sought to use it to promote white nationalist ideas across the political right in the United States; however, there remained differing views on the term; some understood it as an umbrella term for a broad range of rightists outside the neoconservatism then dominant in the U.S.
The peasants led an all-out attack to protect individual farming; however, Stalin did not see the peasants as a threat.
French Israelism (also called Franco-Israelism) is the French nationalist belief that people of Frankish descent in general, and the Merovingian dynasty in particular, are the direct lineal descendants of the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel, specifically, the descendants of the Tribe of Benjamin.
Popularity of diagnosis Because of diagnoses of sluggish schizophrenia, Russia in 1974 had 5–7 cases of schizophrenia per 1,000 population, compared to 3–4 per 1,000 in the United Kingdom.
The simplest explanation of the most common use of the term is enforcing limits to the maximum amount of wealth a person can accumulate in order to improve society so that it functions for all people instead of for only a select few.
It has since been used to refer to those who are ultraconservative, ultra-royalist, and pro-Prayut cabinet.
Mongolia was conquered by the Soviet Union and Sovietized in the 1920s, and after the end of the Second World War, Sovietization took place in the countries of the Soviet Bloc (Eastern and Central Europe: Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland, the Baltic states, etc.).
Radicalized Muslims often exploit the resonance with this term to attack Hindu nationalists as kafirs (infidels) and "Hindu Talibs".
To relocate to a closed city, one would need security clearance by the organization running it, such as the KGB in Soviet closed cities.
Puff-puff (Japanese: ぱふぱふ, Hepburn: pafupafu) is an onomatopoeia that conveys a woman's breasts being rubbed in someone's face.
When the player presses the key, the character steps forward and places his right hand on his comrade's coffin for several seconds, then turns around to leave.
Vladimir Lenin considered the Jacobin use of terror as a needed virtue and accepted the label Jacobin for his Bolsheviks.
MC5 and Jefferson Airplane both used the term "motherfuckers" on their respective 1969 songs "Kick Out the Jams" (from MC5's live album of the same name) and "We Can Be Together" (from Volunteers).
However, the KGB's widespread attempts at influence in the United States, Switzerland, and Denmark targeting the peace movement were known, and the World Peace Council was categorized as a communist front organization by the CIA.
Gaining popularity since 2019, the term is often used to convey intense or indescribable emotions (such as frustration or excitement), and it can also be used as an expression of laughter.
Members of a "culturally backward" nationality were eligible for preferential treatment in university admissions.
Cenat stated in an interview on the No Jumper podcast that after the word went viral on TikTok he stopped using it himself, stating that the viral use on TikTok "butchered" the word.
Masking product origins: Retailers sell products from different countries under a single farm brand name, subtly creating the impression that the majority of their products are homegrown or local.
Rotten.com hosted murder videos and images of deceased people, and brandished the motto "Pure Evil Since 1996".
Similar terms in other languages In Korean, the equivalent term is chobo or hasu, the opposite of gosu, meaning "highly skilled".
Although the FBI subsequently cleared the passengers and called the incident a "misunderstanding", AirTran refused to seat the passengers on another flight, forcing them to purchase last minute tickets on another airline that had been secured with the FBI's assistance.
Wooden floors were laid over wooden beams in the form of logs or timber, and sometimes over steel beams.
The majority of scholars set the starting year for economic stagnation at 1975, although some claim that it began as early as the 1960s.
However, while an adopting organization provides the volunteers who do the litter pickup, a sponsoring organization instead pays professional contractors to do the work.
A fictive army modelled after a possible future version of Eufor fighting under the European Flag using European build weaponry such as the Eurofighter Typhoon Deliberate attempts to use popular culture to promote identification with the EU have been controversial.
One of the earliest scholars who claimed that he could trace the ten lost tribes of Israel to France was the French Huguenot writer, Jacques Abbadie, who fled French Roman Catholic persecution and later settled in London, England.
Early life and education Matisoff was born July 14, 1937, in Boston, Massachusetts, to a working-class family of Russian Jewish origins.
After the collapse of the second Conte government in January 2021, the PD joined the new government of national unity led by Mario Draghi, former director of the European Central Bank.
It can also refer to the holder of other assets and financial instruments that become worthless, such as the junior bonds of a defaulted company or the coins of a failed cryptocurrency.
The internet hosts several websites that feature rabbis answering questions received by email, or SMS.
The McGriddles are a variant of the McMuffin with a scrambled egg flap and American cheese between two maple-flavored griddle pancakes, with the same variants as the McMuffin.
"Jihobbyist" Brachman coined the phrase "jihobbyist" (portmanteau of jihad and hobbyist) in his 2008 book Global Jihadism: Theory and Practice.
They contend that replacing them with closely spaced, large high-rise towers will lead to over-densification, degrading the urban environment by reducing sunlight, airflow, and green spaces.
Essayist Rosie Swayne condemns accusations of the cotton ceiling being coercive, writing that the sexuality of trans women is so "policed" that entering into a discussion of the cotton ceiling will inevitably result in accusations "of being 'rapey'".
Since then, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance has become the best-selling philosophy book of all time.
This term is sometimes used as an alternative to the term "Eastern Europe," excluding Russia for more neutral grouping.
Highcastle was another of Lem's autobiographical works, and touched upon a theme that usually was not favored by the censors: Lem's youth in the pre-war, then-Polish, Lviv.
See also Repression of science in the Soviet Union Cybernetics in the Soviet Union Censorship in the Soviet Union Soviet historiography Politicization of science Notes == References ==
However, the Bush Justice Department, including the FBI, was criticized in 2010 for improper investigations and prosecutions of left-leaning US protest groups such as Greenpeace.
Design Exterior Unlike the five-story khrushchevka that precedes it, the brezhnevka contains nine to seventeen stories.
The Roblox oof (also known simply as "oof") is a sound effect that plays when a player dies or resets in the online video game platform Roblox.
Alternative origins Lear does not appear to have had any firm idea of what the word "runcible" means.
Deobandis reject the use of innovation (Bid'ah) in religious practice and emphasize following the example of Muhammad as closely as possible.
Partmaximum was introduced in 1920 by a decree of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee (ВЦИК) for all communists that held executive positions in Party, industry, government and Soviet trade unions.
Genderqueer evolved into both an umbrella term for identities outside the gender binary and an adjective or self-identity term for those who challenge or diverge from conventional gender norms, or who "queer" gender.
"food tax";) is the Russian word for a tax on food production, paid in kind in the Soviet Union, and sometimes known as "the tax in kind".
Puppet rebel forces Operation Trust In "Operation Trust" (1921–1926), the State Political Directorate (OGPU) set up a fake anti-Bolshevik underground organization, "Monarchist Union of Central Russia".
It was inspired by the writings of Marr's most energetic opponent, Arnold Chikobava, In the article, Stalin rebuts the Japhetic hypothesis, stating that "N.
Italian occult psychedelia was coined by journalist Antonio Ciarletta in an article published by Italian music magazine Blow Up, in January 2012.
Origin Edward Lear's best-known poem, The Owl and the Pussy-Cat, published in 1870, includes the passage: Another mention of this piece of cutlery appears in Edward Lear's alphabetical illustrations Twenty-Six Nonsense Rhymes and Pictures.
Analysts note that the term's use reflects Brazil's political polarisation, where rhetorical terms are employed by various groups to frame political opponents.
See also Caste politics in India Sanatani Hindu law Classical Hindu law References Shashi Shekhar Sharma, Imagined Manuvād: the Dharmaśāstras and their interpreters, Rupa & Co., 2005
In his book The Case for Democracy, published in 2004, Sharansky explains the term: "If a person cannot walk into the middle of the town square and express his or her views without fear of arrest, imprisonment, or physical harm, then that person is living in a fear society, not a free society.
Patrick McCreery, lecturer at New York University, argues that this hierarchy explains how gay people are stigmatized for socially "deviant" sexual practices that are often practiced by straight people as well, such as consumption of pornography or sex in public places.
Given Japan's aging population, there is concern that government focus on the elderly has overshadowed those too poor to have ever started a family, who themselves will be moving into old age largely devoid of the financial resources other generations had.
In the early 1990s, Lem met with the literary critic and scholar Peter Swirski for a series of extensive interviews, published together with other critical materials and translations as A Stanislaw Lem Reader (1997).
It seemed that this time everything would be ready on time, but again the builders failed to complete their work, and regional authorities failed to select and deliver proper exhibits.
The Star, a South African newspaper, describes a tenderpreneur as "someone politically well-connected who has got rich through the government tendering system".
After Wellstone's death in 2002, his longtime aide and campaign manager, Jeff Blodgett, founded Wellstone Action, which promotes conviction politics through education and training.
"Nationalism, Revolution and Narcotics Trafficking in Latin America (Colombia, Peru, Cuba)," University of Virginia ( Thesis Ph.D.
Can also mean For Your Attention, For Your Approval, For Your Assistance, For Your Awareness, For Your Authorization, or For Your Acknowledgement.
History The McDouble was introduced in 1997, garnished with lettuce, tomatoes, and mayonnaise instead of the cheese that currently tops it.
The name of the burger was immediately criticized for being grossly insensitive, especially since it was released in Norway, one of the richest nations in the world.
The sane individuals who were diagnosed as mentally ill were sent either to regular psychiatric hospitals or, if deemed particularly dangerous, to special ones run directly by the MVD.
The Open Bioinformatics Foundation ran two hackathons for its member projects in 2002 and 2003, and since 2010 has held 2-day "codefests" preceding its annual conference.
Some of them include "#BUกูไม่เอาสลิ่ม" (Bangkok University [BU] don't want salims), "#ราชภัฏอยากงัดกับสลิ่ม" (Rajabhat universities want to fight with salims), "#KUไม่ใช่ขนมหวานราดกะทิ" (Kasetsart University [KU] is not dessert with coconut milk [suggesting the dessert salim]).
Informal Romanised Urdu does not use numerals, and rarely uses mixed case, because the Arabic letters that lack a clear equivalent in the English Latin alphabet (e.g.
The FTC took action against both the promoter of the phony extended auto warranties, as well as the telemarketing company that it hired to carry out its illegal, deceptive campaign.
Social impact This failing economy kicked off what would be called the Japanese Lost Generation; in the 1990s, this consisted of college graduates who were unable to find employment and thus suffered the economic consequences.
When he was a candidate, Tom Perriello stated: "More often, the deepest connection with another person comes from when I disagree with them and admit it, because at least they know I will tell the truth.
The far-right Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) placed first, winning 28.8% of the vote and achieving its best result in the party's history.
With Perestroika, the United States and the West became more accessible to Soviet citizens and suddenly "it became obvious that the Imaginary West was something very different from the real West".
The Worker and Kolkhoz Woman sculpture was originally created to crown the Soviet pavilion of the 1937 World's Fair in Paris.
The marked content may contain graphic violence, pornography, profanity, nudity, slurs, or other potentially disturbing subject matter.
Ascott (ed) Consciousness Reframed: art and consciousness in the post-biological era: 1st International CAiiA Research Conference Proceedings published by University of Wales College, Newport.
While he kept exhibiting his work at individual and collective exhibitions, he also ran unsuccessfully as candidate for the municipal and federal elections in 1982 for PSUM (Partido Socialista Unificado de México).
Imagine the shame you'd feel – a grown adult incapable of avoiding the small pool of urine you'd leave behind on a friend's chair after a visit ...
This form of afocal photography became more common in general photography in the 21st century with the spread of point and shoot digital cameras because of the ease of use of this type of setup.
Rehabilitation committees (Chinese: 平反委员会; pinyin: Píngfǎn Wěiyuánhuì) considered appeals from both the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party as well as from petitions—often in the form of big-character posters—by ordinary citizens.
It is becoming an increasingly economically relevant region on the world stage, though it is also projected to have problems with climate change accelerating refugee crises and conflicts in the region.
Criticism Critics have emphasized that Western aid is not unconditional but tied to political and economic requirements, shaping Ukraine’s policy agenda around external rather than domestic priorities.
Reaction from the United States Yuan Li, reporter of The New York Times said: "The depiction of the United States as a place where economic hardship is deep and widespread has been a go-to of official Chinese messaging for years.
Overall, planning in cross-jurisdictional megaregions can be susceptible to varying levels of regulations.
Laugh-Out-Loud Cats is a series of cartoons created by Adam "Ape Lad" Koford that features two anthropomorphic hobo cats named Kitteh and Pip.
Cable and streaming services are lacking in diversity, according to a GLAAD report, with many of the LGBT characters being gay men (41% and 39% respectively).
The second 5-year plan (1933–1937) introduced an incentive scheme to persuade all the peasants to join collective farms.
The suggestion was inspired to an extent by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk's adoption of the Latin alphabet for Turkish in Turkey.
"An Alternative Sense of Humor: The Problems With Crossing Comedy and Politics in Public Discourse".
In telecommunications, data rate units are commonly multiples of bits per second (bit/s) and bytes per second (B/s).
Post World War II counter-insurgency operations Following World War II, various partisan organizations in the Baltic states, Poland and Western Ukraine fought for independence of their countries, which were under Soviet occupation, against Soviet forces.
This explanation allows us to see the historical fulfillment of the prophetic picture in the Gothic warriors, prepared for conquest, destined for empire, and ancestors of the tribes who inhabit this nation [France].
Partmaximum was cancelled by a secret resolution of the Politburo of February 8, 1932; however, it was bypassed with benefits in kind even earlier.
A notable wave of Sovietization (in the second meaning) occurred during the Russian Civil War in the territories captured by the Red Army.
The term combines the surname Bolsonaro with the word minion, meaning "follower" or "supporter", and also recalls the popular animated characters from the Despicable Me franchise.
In Germany an additional McPlant Tomato Chargrill became a permanent menu item after a collaboration with two members of the band Tokio Hotel in 2024.
Derrida first notes that, in the wake of the fall of communism, many in the west had become triumphalist, as is evidenced in the formation of a neoconservative grouping and the displacement of the left in third way political formations.
The term Servomechanism is usually used in industrial/mechanical situations (non-biological and non-computational) where it often applies to analog state change, e.g.
It was adopted by Generation Z and Generation Alpha, popularized by viral TikTok trends such as the catchphrase "delulu is the solulu", that is, self-confidence is key to achieving one's dreams, however far-fetched.
Bitcamp, held at the University of Maryland, College Park since 2014, is another large hackathon with over 1,000 high school and college students attending each year.
The term is used in academic and social discourse to describe systemic or cultural bias against Hispanic or Latino populations.
Vanuatu recognized Abkhazia (but not South Ossetia) after a suspected amount of Russian aid equivalent to that given to Nauru.
A common example is the perception of a face within an inanimate object—the headlights and grill of an automobile may appear to be "grinning".
In 2018, Affrilachian poets celebrated 25 years since the term was created in the book, Black Bone: 25 Years of the Affrilachian Poets edited by Bianca Lynn Spriggs and Jeremy Paden, published by The University Press of Kentucky.
Brigitte Macron, the spouse of the president of France, filed lawsuits against allegations that she was born male.
Instead, this 'bricoleur' is flexible enough to be able to use minimal resources for multiple applications.
When asked about the tweet, White told Newsweek: "By 'bad guys,' I mean those who benefited from World War II without fighting in it—people who funded the wars, gained political power or institutional prominence," he said.
However, applets had very little control over web page content outside the applet dedicated area, so they were less useful for improving the site appearance in general (while applets like news tickers or WYSIWYG editors are also known).
In June 2020, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the 1964 Civil Rights Act could protect gay and transgender people from workplace discrimination.
Tōyoko kids (Japanese: トー横キッズ) is a Japanese term describing marginalized youth, including some homeless, who gather in the back alleys around the Shinjuku Toho Building (新宿東宝ビル) in Kabukicho.
This is why the minimum age to legally appear in pornography is 18 in countries where pornography is fully or partially legalized.
Reception Since the release of Kaminski's book, the term has circulated internationally in lifestyle, health and psychology news coverage and commentary.
If the flow of information within a company is insufficient, the people involved often have a limited understanding of how to react in situations that require quick assessment and prompt decision making.
Surveys suggest Bolsonaro continues to command significant popular support, highlighting the resilience of his platform despite ongoing controversies.
On the political right, the term has been adopted by politicians like Margaret Thatcher, who declared "I am not a consensus politician.
Marites is also a common female nickname in the Philippines, which helped the term become widely known.
Pitchfork's Marc Masters offered that it may have originated "less [as] a movement than a coincidence".
Spinning wheel Throbbers also appear in client side applications (such as Ajax web apps) where an application within the web browser would wait for some operation to complete.
Hoteps often denounce homosexuality and interracial marriage, promote the view that Black women should be subordinate to Black men, and oppose LGBT rights and feminism, which they view as inimical to Black liberation.
Cameron himself made a surprise return as Foreign Secretary in November 2023, this time as a member of the House of Lords.
"Press F to pay respects" is an Internet meme that originated from Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, a 2014 first-person shooter in Activision's Call of Duty franchise.
The RPA definition of the American portion of the region includes the geographically detached metropolitan areas of Minneapolis–St.
In some cases, Fine said, agents began investigations of people affiliated with activist groups for 'factually weak' reasons and 'without adequate basis' and improperly kept information about activist groups in its files.
The European Islamophobie Report aims to enable policymakers as well as the public to discuss the issue of Islamophobia with the help of qualitative data.
Torres said she and many other performers were essentially raised in the industry from childhood and learned from their parents.
History The Jargon File states that the word was coined around 1975 at MIT, although LUSER is visible in CTSS source code circa 1969 in subroutines involving spying on and killing users and deleting their files and directories.
In the United States, the product was initially tested in November 2021, with expanded tests in California and Texas from February 2022.
Description As of 2025, the McDouble contains 390 calories, 22g of protein, 32g of carbs, and 20g of total fat.
He published the Pétrísk-Íslensk Orðabók (Petrish-Icelandic dictionary), a list of self-made neologisms that has received much attention in Iceland.
Definitions of sham marriage vary by jurisdiction, but are often related to poverty, residence permits or citizenship.
This resulted in a fascination with ordinary western clothing commonly provided smugglers, the most notable example being denim jeans and shirts.
Media While conventional reportage and essay writing often require the careful crafting of narrative flow, the building-block nature of the listicle lends itself to more rapid production.
As of January 2017, Koford has posted over 2,800 panels, which are presented on his blog HOBOTOPIA and on Flickr.
In November 2022, British video essayist Hbomberguy published an exposé that disputed Tallarico's claim that he had created the sound effect.
Tenderpreneurship is often accomplished by overpricing and/or shoddy workmanship and/or excessive 'under the table' advances termed "commissions".
See also Egg of Columbus Jon Lech Johansen aka "DVD Jon", among the first hackers to crack DVD encryption Script kiddie, an unskilled hacker who relies on tools created by others == References ==
Persistent earworms (lasting more than 24 hours) may be caused by many different illnesses, such as stroke or cancer metastasizing to the brain.
The "active reserve" included KGB officers with a military rank who worked undercover in the Soviet Union.
The lack of Islamic samizdat appears incongruous with the large percentage of Muslims who resided in the USSR.
In South Africa, a tenderpreneur is a person in government or the private sector who obtains private or government tenders and contracts to facilitate outsourced services.
Manhattan south of Harlem (he placed Harlem, and by extension the Manhattan neighborhoods to its north, clearly within The Foundry), along with Connecticut's Fairfield County.
Geoffrey Hosking writes in his History of the Soviet Union that owning an apartment in a cooperative house for a Soviet citizen became, in a way, a symbol of an intermediate social status - between the privileged elite and ordinary workers who depended on employers and local councils for housing.
In medicine, the term is used in the field of [imaging] to describe the practice of medical ultrasonography.
Adding the special characters makes it harder to type and would cause things such as Twitter hashtags to break.
Cochran created the Affrilachian Artist Project with the goal of building a sustainable collaborative network among the region's artists and community organizers.
James Alan Matisoff (simplified Chinese: 马蒂索夫; traditional Chinese: 馬蒂索夫; pinyin: Mǎdìsuǒfū or simplified Chinese: 马提索夫; traditional Chinese: 馬提索夫; pinyin: Mǎtísuǒfū; born July 14, 1937) is an American linguist.
The concept's roots are in Gayle Rubin's notion of the sex/gender system and Adrienne Rich's notion of compulsory heterosexuality.
Two or three years later in Costa Rica, he was implicated in drug trafficking to finance the Contras.
Unit prefixes In both the SI and ISQ, the prefix k stands for kilo, meaning 1000, while Ki is the symbol for the binary prefix kibi-, meaning 1024.
Debates and factors According to the report named "Indian Century: Defining India's Place in a Rapidly Changing Global Economy" by IBM Institute for Business Value, India is predicted to be among the world's highest-growth nations over the coming years.
In 2009, it was suggested that a future version of HTML could include "NSFW" as a standardized tag for adult material on websites that could be automatically hidden depending on user settings.
By the end of the 1990s, Northeast Asia had a share of 12% of the global energy consumption, with a strong increasing trend.
Background Donornomics emerged in Ukraine after the start of the full-scale Russian invasion on 24 February 2022.
[Translation of "Apostles of the Impossible: Derrida and Marion," in God, the Gift and Postmodernism, eds.
Three years later, due to the earthquake of 1985, Ehrenberg became involved in the protection and reconstruction of the legendary Tepito neighborhood against real estate speculation.
The music has been variously described as a 21st-century update of psychedelia, a reappropriation of media-saturated capitalist culture, and an "American cousin" to British hauntology.
Hangover symptoms validated in controlled studies include general malaise, thirst, headache, feeling dizzy or faint, tiredness, loss of appetite, nausea, stomach ache, and feeling as though one's heart is racing.
Hoteps espouse a mixture of black radicalism and social conservatism, often through generating social media content on sites such as Twitter and Instagram.
In February 2016 in a hotel in central Paris, France, about 60 volunteers helped the Missing Maps humanitarian project to preemptively map vulnerable parts of the world on OpenStreetMap.
Human rights organizations included the Cleveland Council on Soviet Anti-Semitism (1963), Student Struggle for Soviet Jewry (1964), Bay Area Council for Soviet Jews (1967), the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews (1970), and the National Coalition Supporting Soviet Jewry (1971).
Mesh bags are constructed from strands, yarns, or non-woven synthetic material into a net-like structure.
According to a survey released today, a shocking two-thirds of the country’s white-collar workers said they didn’t want to work abroad ...
There were online applet collections for studying various subjects, from physics to heart physiology.
The ambiguity of "glasnost" defines the distinctive six-year period (1985–1991) at the end of the USSR's existence.
In 1989, the Tokyo Stock Exchange reached another high index of USD$40,000 due to the Japanese economy's profits.
Both names highlight behaviors that can be socially annoying, but they come from very different cultural situations.
This type of pattern recognition can result in apophenia based on the fact that since the brain is not looking for exact matches, it can pick up some characteristics of a match and assume it fits.
Divya Singhal (December 8, 2011), Why this Kolaveri Di: Maddening Phenomenon of Earworm, SSRN 1969781 External links The Involuntary Musical Imagery Scale (IMIS) at Goldsmith University of London Margulis, Elizabeth Hellmuth (January 16, 2014).
Technolibertarianism, sometimes referred to as cyberlibertarianism, is a political ideology with roots in the Internet's early hacker cypherpunk culture in Silicon Valley in the early 1990s and in American libertarianism.
Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable defines a runcible spoon as: "A horn spoon with a bowl at each end, one the size of a table-spoon and the other the size of a tea-spoon.
Earliest uses probably date to late twentieth century United States Armed Forces jargon, though possible precursor terms date much earlier.
Loud quitting arose as an alternative response to quiet quitting and hustle culture following the COVID-19 pandemic.
Under his influence, therapists have begun to widely use antidepressants and antipsychotics but often in inadequate cases and in inappropriate doses, without consulting psychiatrists.
A Journal of Politics study found that anger—more than anxiety—increases information-seeking behavior and drives users to click through to content, creating psychological incentives for angry rhetoric in political communication.
Stalin removed all mention of “bourgeois biology” from Trofim Lysenko’s report, The State of Biology in the Soviet Union, and in the margin next to the statement that “any science is based on class” Stalin wrote, “Ha-ha-ha!!
Jason Bateman: The actor has repeatedly visited Disneyland since he moved to Los Angeles in the 1970s, and described his voice acting work on Disney Animation's 2016 film Zootopia as "a really big, big call for me".
This can be used to direct an email towards an individual when an email is being sent to a team email address or to a specific department in a company.
They started to use all political institutions." Notable active reserve officers Many Russian democratic politicians and businessmen hired officers of the active reserve as their closest associates.
It is popular with technical support staff who have to deal with lusers as part of their job, often metaphorically employing a LART (Luser Attitude Readjustment Tool, also known as a clue-by-four, cluestick, or cluebat), meaning turning off the user's access to computer resources and the like.
has been referenced in various video games, including World of Warcraft in which the auctioneer characters O’Reely and Yarly are a reference to "O RLY?" and "YA RLY!", respectively.
Use in marketing In April 1997, clothing retailer French Connection began branding their clothes with fcuk (usually written in lowercase), stating it was an acronym for "French Connection United Kingdom".
Relays would retain a back buffer to permit clients to resume streaming from anywhere within the range of said buffer.
Lovejoy (who first appeared in 1990) repeatedly exclaimed, "Think of the children!" in several episodes of the series.
A Place to Fight For (Une zone à défendre), feature film by Romain Cogitore, starring François Civil and Lyna Khoudri.
In scholarly usage, it is understood not merely as individual prejudice, but as a phenomenon embedded within historical and structural systems of racial and colonial power, which produce and sustain the “othering” of Hispanic peoples.
The major legal issue involved in time shifting concerns "fair use" law and the possibility of copyright infringement.
A form of modern mechanicism.", "Eugenics is a bourgeois pseudoscience", "Weismannism-Morganism - bourgeois pseudoscience, designed to justify capitalism".
The conspiracy theory, which suggests that she was previously known as "Jean-Michel Trogneux", has been traced to a far-right author in France, and has trended on social media.
The Earth Liberation Front, founded in 1992, joined with the Animal Liberation Front, which had its beginnings in England in 1979.
For example, Cixous & Clément (1975) decry the "dual, hierarchical oppositions" set up by the traditional phallogocentric philosophy of determinateness, wherein "death is always at work" as "the premise of woman's abasement", woman who has been "colonized" by phallogocentric thinking.
It is a film genre which attempts to capture reality such as it is (as direct cinema or cinéma vérité) and which simultaneously introduces unreal elements or fictional situations in narrative in order to strengthen the representation of reality using some kind of artistic expression.
His reasoning is that everyone has something to contribute – it's easy and tempting, when someone ticks a person off or is mistaken (or both), to simply disregard all their input in the future by setting the "bozo flag" to TRUE for that person.
In Shevchenko’s social media posts (particularly on the X platform, 17 September 2025), the term is illustrated with examples such as the reduction of the U.S.
Poor blacks were active, but the movement was overwhelmingly led by educated, middle-class intellectuals and community leaders (preachers prominent among them).
Deploying Renewables 2011: Best and Future Policy Practice is a 2011 book by the International Energy Agency.
Dammed: The Politics of Loss and Survival in Anishinaabe Territory is a 2020 book by Brittany Luby, associate professor of history at the University of Guelph.
The book is a collection of essays from authors representing diverse backgrounds, including Japanese American, Mestizo, African American, Hawaiian, Arab American, Chicano and Native American.
The book has been discussed and reviewed widely, including with DeLucia in conversation with WBUR's Meghna Chakrabarti and by a group of scholars for H-Environment Roundtable Reviews.
It also covers often ignored areas of the sustainable energy discussion such as population issues, morality, social justice and equity.
Supply chain sustainability looks at the environmental and human impacts of products in the supply chain.
See also List of Australian environmental books Unequal Protection: The Rise of Corporate Dominance and the Theft of Human Rights == References ==
so radical that, if put into practice, it could effect meaningful preservation." However, when it comes to putting it into practice, Parker finds Kingsnorth's approach "somewhat disappointing...
The novelist Joseph Conrad used it as source material for some of his novels, including Almayer's Folly, An Outcast of the Islands, and The Rescue.
Ultimately, Loo argues that wildlife conservation was shaped by, and ultimately shaped in turn, Canadians' values about their relationship with the natural world.
The Guardian notes that the author has had influence in corporate sustainability efforts and that companies such as Interface and Autodesk have backed the project.
The author Professor Beder was included in a list of "Australia's most influential engineers", published by Engineers Australia in 2004.
A heavy meat diet requires much more than a vegetarian diet, because water is used to grow food for the animals as well as being used directly to support the livestock.
Douglas, a long-time environmental advocate who had argued against the court's rejection of the Long Island pesticide spraying case and had provided Carson with some of the material included in her chapter on herbicides.
He initially got the idea for "Man and Nature" from his observations in his New England home and his foreign travels devoted to similar inquiries.
The book is about the radiation exposure of people and their livestock living downwind from the nuclear weapons testing at the Nevada Test Site in the 1950s.
Worldwide growth in nuclear power has slowed in recent years, with no new reactors and an "actual decline in global capacity and output in 2008".
Graves List of books about nuclear issues Nuclear fallout References External links NY Times review of Fallout Exposure of the American Population to Radioactive Fallout from Nuclear Weapons Tests
Synopsis With a foreword by Doug Chadwick, the book chronicles Williams' journey, from his early work at a Florida marine park, to his conversion to "a lifelong devotee of the species".
Matt Ridley discussed it in The Spectator, and in Prospect magazine said the book was "written with grace and flair" and deserved to win prizes, while conceding that he had financial interests in coal mining.
Shrubsole explores how these ancient woodlands have influenced British culture, appearing in legends and stories such as the tales of King Arthur, which often depict enchanted forests as places of mystery and magic, as well as J.
The program continued for two decades after 1994, first under Peter Beren, the former marketing director, then under Helen Sweetland, the former children's books editor.
The second and third editions appeared in 2000 and 2006; an English translation is available as well.
A Collective Bargain: Unions, Organizing, and the Fight for Democracy is a 2020 non-fiction book by union organizer Jane McAlevey.
Vogel finds that, while counterexamples do exist, trade liberalization on balance has strongly reinforced environment-improving regulations.
The book documents the environmental history of uranium mining at Elliot Lake, Ontario, on Serpent River First Nation, including the advocacy of the Serpent River Anishinaabe to raise awareness about mining impacts on the community.
Part III introduces the "Sustainable Value tool-kit": a step-by-step approach to creating and managing value for stakeholders in a broad range of sectors.
She also discovered that Alcoa sold waste product as a fertilizer or road deicer through L-Bar, a smaller company.
Food, Inc.: How Industrial Food Is Making Us Sicker, Fatter, and Poorer — And What You Can Do About It is a 2009 companion book to the documentary film of the same name about the industrialization of food production and about the negative results to human health and to the natural environment.
Contents A Temperate Empire explores perceptions of climate among colonists and colonial scientists in New England and Nova Scotia during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
The book explores human society's impact on the natural world, both for the planet and the people living on it.
The book argues that climate change, rather than being a problem to be solved, is an idea which reveals different individual and collective beliefs, values and attitudes about ways of living in the world.
The 1962 publication of Rachel Carson's Silent Spring has been regarded as particularly important in popularizing environmental science and helping to launch the modern environmental movement.
In November 2006, a conference based on the book was held at the University of Brighton in the UK and organised jointly by UKELA and ELF.
The book opens with the story of Bernie Banton, former James Hardie employee, who suffered from asbestos-induced fibrosis and later died.
He concluded by saying "[h]aving said all this, I enjoyed reading the book and I got food for thought." John M.
The book includes a critical review of international relations literature in relation to climate issues.
By combining reduced energy use with energy efficiency gains, Lovins says that there will be a $5 trillion saving over the next 40 years and a faster-growing economy.
Rajendra Pachauri, chairman of the IPCC, said the necessary investment in renewables would cost only about 1% of global GDP annually.
In these pages, the Union of Concerned Scientists help inform consumers about everyday decisions that significantly affect the environment.
Author Chris Laszlo is a visiting professor at Case Western University’s Weatherhead School of Management, and co-founder of Sustainable Value Partners, LLC, where he has advised executives on sustainability for competitive advantage.
See also List of books about nuclear issues Nuclear Power and the Environment Reaction Time Contesting the Future of Nuclear Power Non-Nuclear Futures References External links Non-nuclear sustainable energy futures for Germany and the UK
An Appeal to Reason: A Cool Look at Global Warming is a 2008 pseudoscientific climate change denial book by Nigel Lawson.
They advocate a system of "triage," such as that suggested by William and Paul Paddock in Famine 1975!.
Hamilton relates the fetish for growth to a "development mentality", and to a neoliberal "instrumental value theory [which] maintains that, while humans are valuable in and of themselves, the non-human world is valuable only insofar as it contributes to the well-being of humans" (page 191).
For better or worse, cars created freeways, shopping malls, McDonald's, drive-in banking – even the Beach Boys!" Hightower argues: "A new wave of technology is sweeping the land.
Much will have to change if the ongoing overshoot is not to be followed by collapse during the twenty-first century." In 2012, the Smithsonian Institution held a symposium entitled "Perspectives on Limits to Growth".
Last Chance to See is a 1989 BBC radio documentary series and its accompanying book, written and presented by Douglas Adams and Mark Carwardine.
Brook said that Plimer's "stated view of climate science is that a vast number of extremely well respected scientists and a whole range of specialist disciplines have fallen prey to delusional self-interest and become nothing more than unthinking ideologues.
The policy innovations needed to unlock and speed it need no act of Congress." The profitable commercialization of existing energy-saving technologies, through market forces, can be led by business.
The Great Derangement: Climate Change and the Unthinkable is a 2016 non-fiction book by Indian writer Amitav Ghosh discussing climate change.
A paperback edition was published by Bantam in 1981, in a paperback revised edition, by Bantam Books, in 1989 (ISBN 0-553-34717-9).
The focus comes to rest extensively on the views and experiments conducted by scientists in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, such as those done by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, Japetus Steenstrup, Friedrich Küchenmeister, and Ray Lankester.
In the ending of Falter McKibben transitions from the warnings of rapid human innovation, then provides reasons for hope, such as renewable energy advances (especially solar panels) and climate activism.
In 2008, the President's Council on Bioethics commissioned two essays by Rubin on upholding human dignity, which he titled "Human Dignity and the Future of Man" and "Commentary on Bostrom".
Wilkinson describes the careers of a variety of publicly employed scientists who, in the course of their work for government agencies, found habitat degradation, threatened species, or other decline in availability of a natural resource.
MacArthur and Wilson thus assume that there will be an equilibrial point where the immigration rate equals the extinction rate.
The book uses the term "colloquial liberalisms" to describe how variable landscapes shaped local interpretations of liberalism, highlighting the ways in which ideologies interact with the environment.
See also IPCC 4th Assessment Report (AR4) IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) IPCC Summary for Policymakers IRENA Renewable energy commercialization REN21 List of books about renewable energy References External links Report (in English) IPCC SRREN: Full Report (In German)
The geneticist Bryan Clarke, who had worked alongside Bernard Kettlewell at Oxford, described Hooper's book as "a treasury of insinuations worthy of an unscrupulous newspaper".
The New York Times Book Review notes how the family "became happier with less—and urges others to do likewise." "We know that selling a house is goofy, and we recognize that most people can't do it", admitted Kevin Salwen.
All profits of the book (printed on 100% recycled paper) go to the Alliance for Climate Protection, which Gore founded in 2006.
Following this approach the report estimates that livestock "is responsible for 18 percent" of total anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions, but 37% of methane and 65% of nitrous oxide emissions.
In November 2019, Thunberg was named author of the year by Waterstones for No One Is Too Small to Make a Difference.
Throughout the book, Klein discusses her support for the Green New Deal and in the final essay she notes of the 2020 U.S.
It also collates information from industry associations such as the American Wind Energy Association, Solar Energy Industries Association, National Hydropower Association, as well as some non-profit organizations.
Svensmark is otherwise known as a Danish physicist and professor, while Calder had worked as a science journalist.
He is a man who indulges in intrigue and in the activities of scurrilously besmirching any individual he does not like, without any care whatsoever.
Before the biblical text, the Green Bible provides an introduction from Archbishop Desmond Tutu and essays from Brian McLaren, Cal DeWitt, Barbara Brown Taylor, Pope John Paul II, Ellen F.
the reason is that the truth about the climate crisis..." was also highlighted and separated from the main writing in that section.
The environmental community newsletter TerraGreen cited the book's good reception by Toyota's advanced technologies group.
The Weather of the Future: Heat Waves, Extreme Storms, and Other Scenes From a Climate-Changed Planet (ISBN 978-0-06-172688-0) is a 2010 book by climatologist Heidi Cullen.
Yet nowhere did Schimper acknowledge his profound debt to Warming, neither in the list of picture credits, nor in the acknowledgements section of the Vorwort, nor in his list of major sources, and not even in a footnote!
External links Energy and American Society – Thirteen Myths Five Myths About Nuclear Energy The 10 big energy myths
According to the publishers, Monbiot also "examines the role of the British and American governments in promoting, wittingly or otherwise, this great ecological catastrophe".
The author's foreword says this was a period when solar power was "discounted as an irrelevance", but he "confidently predicts that it will be the world's largest energy source" within his lifetime.
It presents positive stories and examples of how profit-seeking companies are helping to save the planet, and says that "the best way to rebuild America’s economy, cities and job markets is to invest in energy efficiency and renewable energy resources, whether climate change is happening or not".
According to Dunn, "Enviro-Capitalism is a persuasive argument that such an environment is not that of the heavy-handed approach of state regulation but a regime of markets, private property, and rule of law." Michael E.
The Vegetarian Myth: Food, Justice, and Sustainability is a 2009 book by Lierre Keith published by PM Press.
About the book, he notably writes that "while some of the blatant errors that marked the original article were largely gone, the pessimistic – and, at times, downright doomist – framing remained, as did exaggerated descriptions that fed the doomist narrative".
Attenborough cites government intervention in Costa Rica causing deforestation to reverse, Palau's fishing regulations and improved use of land in the Netherlands as good examples.
Goodall explains how consumers can cut carbon usage by 75 percent without making drastic lifestyle changes.
Evidence A plurality of the book consists of chapters showcasing the economics of one resource or another and proposing why this resource is, for human purposes, infinite.
The book is critical of political efforts to address climate change and argues that extreme environmental changes are inevitable and unavoidable.
During the course of the 20th century, the average onsets of diseases such heart disease (9 years), respiratory disease (11 years), and cancer (8 years), have been delayed.
Environmental Principles and Policies: An Interdisciplinary Introduction is a textbook written by Professor Sharon Beder.
proper appreciation of the sources of wellbeing", among which he identifies social relationships, job satisfaction, religious belief for some, and above all a sense of meaning and purpose.
Historical precedent Simon argues that for thousands of years, people have always worried about the end of civilization brought on by a crisis of resources.
The style is accurate, but vivid and direct: The house lizards belong to a peculiar family, the Geckos, and are found even in the best-kept chambers, most frequently on the walls and ceilings, to which they cling motionless by day, being active only at night.
Sovacool, in which the authors offer detailed assessments of commercially available technologies for strengthening global energy security and climate change mitigation.
He suggests that a key measure for scientific analysis should be energy per second per gram, termed "energy rate density," and that analysis using this yardstick can be used to explain not only human evolution but cosmic evolution.
The residents do not act collectively, they do not blame the oil corporations for example, since there is a lack of confidence in their own abilities to engage in such activities.
Heaven and Earth: Global Warming – The Missing Science is a popular science book published in 2009 and written by Australian geologist, professor of mining geology at the University of Adelaide, and mining company director Ian Plimer.
In each of them the author, which visits almost every day a single square meter randomly chosen of an old-growth forest of Cumberland Plateau (Tennessee), describes what happens to plants, animals and insects living there.
According to him, Enviro-Capitalists will convince the readers that entrepreneurs, if not delayed or discouraged by the government, are able to deliver environmental quality just as they deliver necessary features of life like food, clothing, communications, health care and others.
Kirkus Reviews calls Braiding Sweetgrass a "smart, subtle overlay of different systems of thought that together teach us to be better citizens of Earth." Author Richard Powers said while listening to the audiobook of Braiding Sweetgrass on a cross-country drive, "I had to pull over several times.
Solar Energy Perspectives builds upon past analyses of solar energy deployment contained in the World Energy Outlook, Energy Technology Perspectives and several IEA Technology Roadmaps.
(2009), "Planetary Boundaries: Exploring the Safe Operating Space for Humanity" (PDF), Ecology and Society, 14 (2): 32, doi:10.5751/ES-03180-140232, hdl:10535/5421, S2CID 15182169
The police's theory was that the accused conspired to murder the victim as he was in love with his wife, the defense was that the victim was killed by a man-eating tiger.
On the latter, Luby writes:"This book makes clear that Indigenous Peoples did not form part of Canada’s affluent society after 1945.
The Indian economist and Nobel Memorial Prize winner, Amartya Sen, has argued that nations with democracy and a free press have virtually never suffered from extended famines.
Adaptations The book is accompanied by a musical project, The Outlaw Ocean Music Project, which involved around 200 musicians sampling field recordings from the book's research trips and creating a soundtrack.
Pistono is trying to construct a future society in which humans will be happy even though they will be less necessary.
The basket of goods, costing US$1,000 in 1980, fell in price by over 57 percent over the following decade.
It is written by Jørgen Randers and is a follow-up to The Limits to Growth, which in 1972 was the first worldwide report by the Club of Rome.
It follows Attenborough's career as a presenter and natural historian, along with the decline in wildlife and rising carbon emissions during the period.
The Oldest Crime The author brings to light the "oldest crime" of capitalism, which is the killing of workers by overworking as well as dangerous work conditions.
The Stanford-educated Brand, a biologist with strong artistic and social interests, believed that there was a groundswell of commitment to thoroughly renovating American industrial society along ecologically and socially just lines, whatever they might prove to be.
Since then Wild Law has been at the centre of many conferences and residential workshops: A conference based on the concept of wild law was held in November 2005 at the University of Brighton.
References to the report The report was the main scientific source for the documentary Meat The Truth, narrated by Marianne Thieme (2007).
Economy Myth Thirteen – Developing Countries are not Doing their Part in Responding to Concerns about Climate Change Contributors The book was produced with support from Oak Ridge National Laboratory and involved 24 contributing authors with a diverse range of backgrounds.
Fundamentals of Stack Gas Dispersion is a book devoted to the fundamentals of air pollution dispersion modeling of continuous, buoyant pollution plumes from stationary point sources.
Overview The book expands Solomon's National Post columns about scientists who dissented in some way from the scientific consensus on climate change.
Reception Michiko Kakutani argues in The New York Times that the book's "roots as a slide show are very much in evidence.
It was awarded the 1957 John Burroughs Medal for nature writing, which is awarded annually by the American Museum of Natural History.
Science is "under siege" in these cases because many of the researchers were told to modify their scientific reports so that commercial uses or environmentally destructive activities could continue.
Renewable Electricity and the Grid: The Challenge of Variability is a 2007 book edited by Godfrey Boyle which examines the significance of the issue of variability of renewable energy supplies in the electricity grid.
Six C's Pernick and Wilder identify six major forces, which they call the six C's, that are pushing clean technology into the mainstream and driving rapid growth and expansion: costs, capital, competition, China, consumers, and climate.
Atlas of Our Changing Environment is a series of atlases published beginning in 2005 by the United Nations Environment Programme.
Translations As far as late 2019 The Sound of a Wild Snail Eating has been translated into eleven languages.
This means that the big economic opportunities have shifted from IT (Information Technology) in recent decades to ET (renewable Environmental Technologies).
Markus thought that "the book suffers from too many analogies and dialog that often sounds contrived", but ultimately concluded that "this is an interesting work that draws surprising conclusions and illustrates the difficulties and rewards off field research".
"McPhee has the poet's knack for the telling point, the metaphor that incisively leads to greater understanding," Ruess wrote.
Synopsis Klein relays her meeting with Greta Thunberg in the opening essay in which she discusses how young people are speaking out for climate awareness and change.
Drawdown: The Most Comprehensive Plan Ever Proposed to Reverse Global Warming is a 2017 book created, written, and edited by Paul Hawken about climate change mitigation.
Sierra Club Books was the publishing division, for both adults and children, of the Sierra Club, founded in 1960 by then club President David Brower.
The book explores other aspects of the climate crisis, such as climate change denial and the corporate influence of money in politics, and ends by reasoning that it is not too late to solve the crisis.
He has written a book that sets out to support a certain point of view, and, unless you are an expert, you will never know which facts are correct and appropriately used and which are not.
The book notes "right-wing stereotypes about environmental elitism" and recommends strategies to persuade political opponents.
The book argues that pollution control and natural resource management have become critical elements of marketplace success and explains how leading-edge companies have folded environmental thinking into their core business strategies.
Five percent of the funds for said study were provided by the livestock industry, according to a press release by Mitloehner's university.
See also Scenes from the Heart – a book about Thunberg's family by her mother Malena Ernman (together with Svante Thunberg and their daughters).
Ethanol fuel alone could reach 11.5 billion US gallons (44,000,000 m3) per year by the end of the first quarter of 2009, a significant contribution to the approximately 135 billion US gallons (510,000,000 m3) of gasoline consumed annually.
In the third phase, the evolution of colonizing populations may result in speciation and/or adaptive radiation.
New paradigms In this work, Cronon demonstrated the impact on the land of the widely disparate conceptions of ownership held by Native Americans and English colonists.
Stutchbury describes the link between Latin American deforestation and the loss of food for migratory birds, and the impact of large amounts of pesticides.
The 2009 hip-hop song "The High Line" by Kinetics & One Love, inspired by The World Without Us, is a pro-green, anti-deforestation song that paints the picture of trees and plants reclaiming the buildings of New York City long after the presence of humans.
Deffeyes was a geologist who warned of the coming oil crisis in a previous book called Hubbert's Peak.
In the second and third chapters, McKibben lays out his analysis of how we have arrived at the current situation, and conveys genuine sorrow as he explains how the drive for economic growth based on hydrocarbons since the 1970s has led the planet to the point of breakdown.
He concluded that her historical research had been poor, and that she had shown fundamental misunderstandings about the nature of science.
Assadourian outlines four policies overdeveloped nations could employ to sufficiently facilitate a planned and controlled contraction of the economy so as to get back in line with planetary boundaries.
According to New Scientist, this book provides "the definitive guide to reducing your carbon footprint".
The United States, the only one of these four countries that has historically given wheat to hungry nations, is the "sole hope of the hungry nations" in the future (p.
For example, there will always be tension between the ideas of "welfare and prosperity for all" and environmental conservation, so trade-offs are necessary.
Through passages of nature writing and hundreds of watercolor paintings, the book details California's ecology and geography.
Confessions of a Recovering Environmentalist is a collection of essays by Paul Kingsnorth published in 2017.
Synopsis The book gives an approximate carbon footprint of just under 100 activities starting small, with carbon used in sending a text message, ending with the massive example of a World Cup.
Gore, Al, Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit, 2000-04-22, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, MA, hardcover, 416 pages, ISBN 0-618-05664-5.
Canada's Deadly Secret: Saskatchewan Uranium and the Global Nuclear System is a 2007 book by Jim Harding which chronicles the struggle over Saskatchewan's uranium mining, and demonstrates the negative impacts on Aboriginal rights and environmental health, and the effect of free trade.
He has worked with the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority before moving to the Open University where he is Professor of Technology Policy and has developed courses on technological innovation, focusing in particular on renewable energy technology.
The 2006 edition of the book has neither a table of contents nor an index, but can be summarized as the presentation of various positive and negative causal links, shown in the graphic with corresponding page numbers.
It details the publication of a paper by McIntyre and Ross McKitrick in 2003 which criticized MBH98, and follows with Mann and his associates' rebuttals.
Synopsis Laszlo argues that companies creating sustainable value are going beyond regulatory compliance and energy conservation.
David Pearce of The Economic Journal criticized the book for, in his view, not presenting a persuasive argument for tradeable permits, inasmuch as only one significant example of their application to water quality, and that a not very successful one, was cited.
Rubin is the author of The Green Crusade, a 1998 book which questions the scientific basis for claims and predictions made by environmentalists, specifically naming Rachel Carson and Paul Erlich.
It traces the history of scientific discoveries that led to the current scientific opinion on climate change.
The book details Eskom's systematic downfall through political meddling of the ruling ANC party, to organised syndicates who looted, pillaged and stole from the state utility.
funds were diverted to launch a punk-style zine called "Live Wild or Die", which among other things espoused anarchism and attacked Foreman's and Abbey's views on some controversial issues then being debated within EF.
Renewable Electricity and the Grid presents technical and operational solutions to the problem of reconciling the differing patterns of power supply and demand.
Scorched ponders the morality of the changes mankind has wrought, as well as the future of life on Earth.
Furthermore, Débora Swistun lived most of her life in Flammable and thus personally experienced the environmental sufferings and other changes taking place there.
Overview This book is an expansion of a lecture which Lawson gave in 2006 to the Centre for Policy Studies, a think tank with links to the Conservative Party.
Losing Earth: A Recent History (published as Losing Earth: The Decade We Could Have Stopped Climate Change in the UK and Commonwealth markets) is a 2019 book written by Nathaniel Rich.
Living in the Hothouse also offers a critical overview of the Howard government's policy response to climate change in Australia.
Brand explains that Lovelock changed his mind because of two things: he read a book, The Climate Caper, by Garth Paltridge, and he read a paper by Dr.
In National Review, Alex Trembath generally praised the book, writing that "despite the flaws", "Shellenberger ...
He finds the Chinese the most noticeable of the people, while in one square mile of forest he found 700 species of beetles including 130 longhorns.
Emery argued that the analysis in the change of relationship between the US and the Middle Eastern oil producers in the 1970s is "quite narrow".
Because we have learned to make new materials for the greater convenience of mankind, we have produced chemical toxins that have saturated our soil and water.
Contents Serpent River Resurgence characterizes the uranium industry at Elliot Lake as a form of "Cold War colonialism," given the connection between mining in the area and American nuclear weapons production and the impacts of the industry on the Serpent River First Nation.
Reception David Dunham reviewed Why Big Fierce Animals Are Rare for Different Worlds magazine and stated that "I strongly recommend Why Big Fierce Animals Are Rare.
Part I is a current history and investigation into why people believe renewable energy technologies will benefit humanity and the planet, and why that belief system is highly suspect and even detrimental despite the fact that fossil fuels yield negative consequences as well.
This a must-read book for those who want a primer on all the key solutions countries will be considering at Copenhagen.
So, a long list", and describes Mann as a "scientist-turned-climate-warrior." References Oreskes, N.
These include the businesses Casas Bahia, Patrimonio Hoy, Bank of Madura, Aravind Eye Hospital, Jaipur rugs and Project Shakti and how they were founded.
In addition to elucidating the impacts of the uranium industry on the local environment, the book documents the efforts of Serpent River residents, including elders, to be heard by government and industry officials.
See also Wildlife conservation Wildlife of Canada References External links States of Nature on Google Books
Trends affecting demands for water The report's authors forecast that the need for water would double within 50 years, due to global population rise, more people choosing to eat a diet of meat and vegetables rather than primarily consuming cereals, and climate change.
It contrasts the reality between the "CEOs and upper management" drawing "multimillion dollar salaries and 'golden parachutes'" as against the reality of the production workers living in packed dormitories and often facing sweatshop conditions.
A further 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where there is insufficient human capacity or financial resources for people to effectively make use of the water that is available.
Beyond the Limits is a 1992 book continuing the modeling of the consequences of a rapidly growing global population that was started in the 1972 report The Limits to Growth.
The main basis of his technology extrapolation for computers is Moore's Law, one of the greatest successes of Trend estimation in predicting human progress.
In one of the book's themes, Gingrich and Maple argue that environmental efforts shouldn't be exclusive to one political philosophy and reject the idea that free enterprise and a cleaner world are opposing forces.
Maralinga: Australia's Nuclear Waste Cover-up is a book by Alan Parkinson about the clean-up of the British atomic bomb test site at Maralinga in South Australia, published in 2007.
Philip's in the Hills Episcopal Church in Tucson, followed a month later by a memorial service at St.
Sustainable Value: How the World's Leading Companies Are Doing Well by Doing Good is a book by Chris Laszlo published in 2008 by Stanford University Press (US) and Greenleaf Publishing Ltd.
Background Indian writer Amitav Ghosh delivered a series of lectures on what he perceived was the lack of coverage of climate change in contemporary fiction at the University of Chicago in 2015.
She also deepened the scientific aspects of her small guest's natural history, and became aware of the richness of its existence.
Hard Choices received favorable reviews in academic journals including Great Plains Research: A Journal of Natural and Social Sciences, Environmental Reviews, Annals of the Association of American Geographers, and Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society.
Witherow, a mysterious and haunted old man of 86, shares the troubling story of his life from birth to age 20, when he left Nortonville.
The book contrasts this with the ecological costs of growing food in factory farms, transporting it thousands of miles, and adding chemical preservatives so it will not spoil.
The book is critical of organizations like the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) who, it claims, are driven by political and financial agendas rather than environmentalism.
He often calls his small observation field mandala, inspired by the paintings of sand created by Tibetan as a support for meditation.
Half Gone: Oil, Gas, Hot Air and the Global Energy Crisis is a book by former oil geologist Jeremy Leggett about both oil depletion and global warming.
In 2009, the BBC broadcast a television follow-up series of the same name, with Stephen Fry replacing the late Adams.
His book argues that The Pentagon and its military planning for WW III promoted "catastrophic environmentalism" by funding environmental science in the Cold War after WW II.
The defining moments for Foreman, according to the book, were when some activists under the Earth First!
The book largely focuses on the history of two federal agencies, the Bureau of Reclamation and the U.S.
Sense of place: a response to an environment: the Swan Coastal Plain, Western Australia is a 1972 book by George Seddon.
Development The development of precision marketing coincides with the development of market segmentation, advancements in technology and the customer's reaction to the proliferation of mass marketing.
In India a large number of companies have used surrogate advertising, including Bacardi Blast music CD's, Bagpiper Club Soda, and Officers Choice playing cards, though the practice has since been banned under Central Consumer Protection Authority guidelines since June 2022.
Prior to Michael Jordan, Nike mostly sponsored tennis and track athletes and decided to expand their market, which increased sales to become a multibillion-dollar company.
This information is accessed by social media targeting software and enables advertisers to create display ads with characteristics that match those of social network users.
The campaign released additional videos as a bonus feature with Spider-Man: No Way Home's (2021) digital release in March 2022, with further episodes being released in April.
Agile marketing, often termed marketing agility or international marketing agility, comprises sensemaking, speed, iteration, and marketing decisions; marketing decisions are performed in an agile manner, using principles from the Manifesto for Agile Software Development.
Starbucks has also responded to the recent popularity of shopping local by acquiring trusted local businesses.
A showreel (also known as a demo reel, sizzle reel, or work reel) is a short video showcasing a person's previous work used by people involved in filmmaking and other media, including actors, animators, lighting designers, editors, video games and models.
Strauss Zelnick, Take-Two's chairman and chief executive officer, said the incident caused the companies to become more vigilant with cybersecurity and had impacted staff emotionally but business remained unaffected.
Continuity marketing is a method of providing goods or services to consumers that relies on direct marketing and continues into perpetuity.
Popularity Icing, which was described by The New York Times in June 2010 as "the nation's biggest viral drinking game", grew in popularity shortly after the appearance of the website BrosIcingBros.com in May 2010.
RGX employed the Internet to create buzz via a men's lifestyle website called RGX Life, followed by television, print, and public relations activities.
Similar to the UK, older generations are less satisfied, with only 28% of 45- to 64-year-olds claiming to be happy with how their calls are handled, compared to 37% of 18- to 34-year-olds.
Though the ads were never aired, they diminished the believability of other ads by the Liberal Party.
A brandmobile is a motorized vehicle customized to resemble a consumer product as a promotional tool for advertising and marketing.
55 - Red, White & Blue: Middle-aged, with high school educations, many of these folks are transitioning from blue-collar jobs to the service industry.
A marketing co-operation or marketing cooperation is a partnership of at least two companies on the value chain level of marketing with the objective to tap the full potential of a market by bundling specific competences or resources.
The phrases may be used to attract attention to a distinctive product feature or reinforce a company's brand.
This would make it virtually impossible for an airline to manage their fares (fares could then only be determined based on historical data and not based on current demand).
Researchers use blind taste tests to obtain information about customers' perceptions and preferences on the goods.
54 - Struggling Singles: Households found mostly in second cities, this segment is in mid-career with their jobs.
The new name was at that time reserved to the North American market, but later became the name of the mother company as well.
An ad network company such as Google uses cookies to deliver advertisements adjusted to the interests of the user, control the number of times that the user sees an ad, and "measure" whether they are advertising the specific product to the customer's preferences.
Electronics and batteries as well as printers and ink cartridges are examples of products that exhibit complementary properties for customers to connect.
Other search engines Other search engines use similar techniques to rank results and are also affected by Google bombs.
The third method is attaching the prize to the box - "on-pack" promotion - (as with plastic records laminated to the back of the box) or printing the prize on the box (as with numerous games and trading cards) or simply attaching the prize to the box with tape or shrink wrap.
These enable a document composition engine to follow its own set of document application rules, constructing individual documents on the basis of data items contained within an individual's data record.
Fragrances RGX had six fragrance variants: CHILL RUSH SURGE REFRESH ICED PURE 50 References External links RGX Bodyspray Official Website Dial Corporation
This results is a chart showing: Cash cows, where a company has high market share in a slow-growing industry.
Search ads: Appearing in the list of search results, these are generally found above or below the organic search results or in favorable position, having been sold to advertisers with a guarantee for optimal placement on the search engine page.
Email forwards are essentially text memes, often including jokes, hoaxes, email scams, written versions of urban legends, political messages, and digital chain letters; if widely forwarded they might be called 'viral emails'.
Belgium, Germany, and Scandinavia have strict consumer protection laws regulating the use of premiums.
In such cases, mobile operators may capture the failed transaction due to lack of prepaid balance (or any other reason), as subscriber's intent to purchase a product or subscribe for service and market it when the subscriber has enough prepaid balance.
It became available as "Office Mobile 6.1" on September 26, 2007, as a free upgrade download to current Windows Mobile 5.0 and 6 users.
A pharmaceutical company has developed a new drug for an existing drug category and needs to build brand recognition.
Often, distribution deals for an "unproven" new artist(s) who comes with a built-in fan base, generally receive better upfront money deals than music artists had previously received without street teams sharing the music and spreading the word, (viral marketing) nationwide.
History Smokers become collectors Some of the earliest prizes were cigarette cards — trade cards advertising the product (not to be confused with trading cards) that were inserted into paper packs of cigarettes as stiffeners to protect the contents.
In a seeding trial, the brand provides potential opinion leaders with the product for free, aiming to gain valuable pre-market feedback and also to build support among the testers, creating influential word-of-mouth advocates for the product.
Other A bait-and-switch job offer is when the actual work has large discrepancies with what was described in the job listing or interview.
Home staging services have sizable inventories of alternative chairs, current accessories, and even pillows, blankets, and towels.
Micromarketing has come to refer to marketing strategies which are variously customised to either local markets, to different market segments, or to the individual customer.
The CEO is listed as Simon Z and consumers are said to include musicians, teens, celebrities, politicians and governments, according to a New York Times and Forbes report.
This allows the marketer to understand the true effectiveness of the marketing plan, or incrementality.
In December 2015, the Vikings sued Wells Fargo for violating the agreement, after they began to construct an illuminated sign on their rooftop.
In states where sales taxes are collected, tampons and other menstrual products are taxed in much the same way as most other non-exempt items (such as toilet paper and toothpaste).
As one example, while the 2016 Trump political campaign was cited as having obtained billions of dollars in earned media, one study estimated that 23% of earned media mentions were negative.
VNN episodes will be an anchor series for the newly launched, wholly in-world channels @VoughtINTL on YouTube, Instagram and Twitter.
Google launched its free offering, Google Tag Manager, in 2012, which significantly accelerated the adoption of tag management across websites of all sizes.
Background After the acquisition of 21st Century Fox by The Walt Disney Company was announced in December 2017 and completed in March 2019, all X-Men films in development were canceled, including X-Force and Fox's Deadpool 3, with Marvel Studios taking control of the franchise.
In 2005, President Bush signed into law S.714, the Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005 (JFPA), which allows marketers to send commercial faxes to those with whom they have an established business relationship (EBR), but imposes some new requirements.
Some terminology in reference to full-color printing: 4/0 - Full color front / No print on back 4/1 - full color front / One color on reverse 4/4 - full color front / Full color back These names are pronounced as "four over zero", "four over one", and "four over four".
The reader's address appears on a piece of paper that goes out with the publication – a label carrier that could easily contain a promotional message.
On April 13, 2015, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts announced that Adventures by Disney will have river cruise vacations.
Real-time: Data flows continuously, updating customer attributes and triggering actions within seconds.
The German Healthcare Agency Wefra life executes their communication strategies based on this approach.
For such a market to be successful, the company must have an effective monopoly on the corresponding goods.
In contrast, reviews for "Mojave" were positive, with participants stating that they intended to use or purchase the operating system for themselves; the same participants were astonished when they were told that "Mojave" was Windows Vista.
Retargeting tags online users by including a pixel within the target webpage or email, which sets a cookie in the user's browser.
Near the end of his career, Welles made one more extended film trailer with wholly original material: a nine-minute F for Fake trailer (1976), made three years after the film itself, in anticipation of the European production's American debut.
Supermarkets in the UK including Tesco, Asda, Sainsburys and Morrisons have engaged in an annual loss leader price war for Christmas vegetables since discounters Aldi and Lidl gained market share.
In 2021, Spotify Wrapped included various internet slang phrases and referenced topics from popular culture including non-fungible tokens and skincare routines, spawning jokes and memes which made fun of the language used in the marketing campaign.
Frank Kardes and others have concluded that a soft sell, with an implied conclusion rather than an overt hard sell, can often be more persuasive.
Open Exchange – A public RTB marketplace where any advertiser or DSP can bid for available impressions.
Misuse As originally practiced by the Boston Consulting Group, the matrix was used in situations where it could be applied for graphically illustrating a portfolio composition as a function of the balance between cash flows.
following the events of Captain America: The Winter Soldier, with quotes from MCU politicians such as President Ellis used.
Right Media's ad exchange built algorithms for predicting, budgeting, and pacing, which enabled real-time bidding (RTB).
Micromarketing is a marketing strategy in which marketing and/or advertising efforts are focused on a small group of tightly targeted consumers.
Lock-in effect (also installed-base opportunism) Lock-in effect or installed-base opportunism refers to the situation where the customers can only purchase the aftermarket goods produced by original equipment manufacturer.
Australia and New Zealand Australasia's promotional merchandise sector is represented by the Australasian Promotional Products Association (APPA), the regional trade body for suppliers and distributors.
greenfield or military/gang enforcement backed, and/or innovative, grey-market/illicit retail of addictive drugs, for instance the British East India Company's, late-1700s opium-based Qianlong Emperor embargo-busting, Canton System), goodwill (e.g.
By the site's eighth month live, it had totaled 9.1 million visits, peaking in monthly site visits in April 2006 when it garnered 4.4 million.
Enhancing brand awareness is important in digital marketing, and marketing in general, because of its impact on brand perception and consumer decision-making.
For example, in SNSD's music video, "Party", members can be seen playing with a toy figure of an airplane with a "Thai Air" logo.
A block of such programming appears weekdays on BET under the umbrella title BET Inspiration (which fully replaced the direct-response variety of infomercials on the channel in 1997).
These can vary drastically due to the publisher's choice of disclosure language (i.e., wording used to identify native advertising placement).
The term is a misnomer, as all substances and objects are composed entirely of chemicals and energy.
Portal A produced State of Pride for YouTube Originals, a documentary feature film directed by Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman.
Definition An advertising postcard is a privately, commercially produced, rectangular piece of stiff paper (typically 3.5 X 5.5 inches, or 148mm x 105mm in Europe) printed in a form that is easy to send through the post and is designed to carry promotional messages of products or services.
These were not infomercials: response was in-store, although the expert's phone number might be included.
This may also be used by manufacturers to limit what a consumer can do with a low-end model and encourage them to upgrade should they want more autonomy.
The problem with this approach is subjects may modify their behaviour when they know they are being watched.
Distinguished from viral video marketing Social video marketing is also distinct from viral marketing which is more closely aligned with the self-replicating nature of both “memorable and sufficiently” interesting content.
Types of Customer Data Platforms CDPs can generally be categorized into several types: Traditional CDPs are all-in-one solutions designed to unify customer data from multiple sources within a single platform.
It evokes an emotional response, which stimulates the target to identify with recognized authorities.
An ad exchange, in online advertising, is a technology platform that facilitates the buying and selling of media advertising inventory from multiple ad networks.
The proposed fear pattern theory builds on Hovland, Janis and Kelley's fear-as-acquired-drive (drive-reduction) model, that was one of the earlier major theories of how fear appeals work, based on the assumption that it is fear reduction that makes such an appeal effective.
And the dollar sign on the price tag is not the only price to be paid-- our national resources are being destroyed along with our individual character and our family patterns.
The messenger proposed a riddle in connection with the 1994 Pink Floyd album The Division Bell, promising that the answer would lead to a reward.
The tool devised to exploit the theory on a commercial scale, FAST marketing, was a process that involved engineering consumer trial of a product in the immediate wake of television advertising designed to set accurate expectations of the true experience.
An example is a coupon which the reader receives through the mail and takes to a store's check-out counter to receive a discount.
United States Though uncommon today, the street demonstration was ubiquitous in such places as the Boardwalk in Atlantic City.
Software version numbers were altered again to create parity across the suite – every program was called version 7.0 meaning all but Word missed out versions.
Categories Buildings resembling objects or creatures Mimetic architecture, or buildings designed to imitate a giant object or creature, sometimes having to do with what is being sold or showcased inside.
History Real-time marketing techniques developed during the mid-1990s following the initial deployment of customer relationship management (CRM) solutions in major retail banking, investment banking and telecommunications companies.
Touchscreens, trackballs, computer keyboards, and pushbuttons are all typical input devices for interactive computer kiosks.
In a 2018 marketing stunt, pancake restaurant chain IHOP announced a rebranding to "IHOb" to promote a line of hamburgers, but did not follow through with the rebranding.
Furthermore, he knows better his target audience simplified by the fact that he has access to the affinity group's information and has the opportunity to carry out some research programs with its members.
History The now ubiquitous "street team" model was originally developed by urban record labels, such as: Loud Records, Jive, Bad Boy Records, Roc-A-Fella Records, Priority Records, and Ruthless Records.
In 2002, a study was released in Great Britain demonstrating a financial link between customer and employee engagement.
It can reveal details about the number of users in a location, user and supply movements, daily routines (user and organizational), and can expose otherwise unknown associations between users and locations.
The use of the term chemical free in advertising to indicate that a product is free of synthetic chemicals, and the tolerance of its use in this fashion by the United Kingdom's Advertising Standards Authority, has been the subject of criticism.
In the United States, subscription television began in the late 1970s and early 1980s in the form of encrypted analog over-the-air broadcast television which could be decrypted with special equipment.
In public, this is a very powerful method used by companies to suggest other products to their customers - for example, in fast food restaurants advertising special meals in front of the ordering queue.
The product was an attempt by Dial to break into the body spray market, currently dominated by AXE and Tag, through a marketing strategy directed at older men.
According to The Independent, this was the first instance of a literary product-placement deal between an established writer of fiction and a commercial partner.
This enables customers to link the related products at the time of purchase, saving their time of travelling down another aisle or luring them into buying additional items that they would not have done otherwise.
Microsoft PowerPoint is a presentation program used to create slideshows composed of text, graphics, and other objects, which can be displayed on-screen and shown by the presenter or printed out on transparencies or slides.
A user receives a coupon notification from an application that he previously installed saying that there is a store nearby that he can make use of that coupon.
The term chemical is roughly a synonym for matter, and all substances, such as water and air, are chemicals.
As a result, many commercial email marketers within the United States utilize a service or special software to ensure compliance with the act.
Take-Two responded by submitting takedowns of videos showing or discussing the leaks hosted on YouTube, and contacted GTAForums and Reddit moderators to remove access.
These coefficients are integrated with respondent-level data measuring the selling effectiveness of specific communications and the Viral Marketing Potential of those communications within specific media (e.g., Internet video, texting, print ads, television).
is a viral marketing campaign consisting of a series of infomercials that showed demonstrations of the Blendtec line of blenders (particularly the Total Blender).
In 2020, Portal A worked with the Joe Biden presidential campaign for the social media initiative #ImVotingFor.
Another way users can get around terms and conditions is by a multiple part video series on their account where they often spell out racial slurs and hate speech.
See also Digital fashion Outfit of the day Fashion influencers Online advertising Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the fashion industry Social media Social media marketing == References ==
In this case, several `matched' test markets (usually small ones) may be used, each testing different marketing mixes.
And in a KFC commercial, each of the group members used a superpower concept, which they had in their music video, to promote the flavors and characteristics of KFC's new menu, hot chicken mala.
A number of hotels charge resort fees, which are not typically included in the advertised price of a room.
if each new customer invites five friends, i = 5) c = percent conversion of each invite {\displaystyle c={\text{percent conversion of each invite }}} (e.g.
High quality business cards without full-color photographs are normally printed using spot colors on sheet-fed offset printing presses.
It first appeared in the early 1990s when large amounts of shareware demo programs were copied onto CD-ROMs and advertised in magazines or sold at computer flea markets.
Understanding the difficulties in reaching a niche market, they turned to social media, and by September 2014, had 12,000 followers on Facebook, 9,000 followers on Twitter, 88,000 followers on Instagram, and 6,000 followers on Pinterest, with a YouTube channel in development.
The study begins by asking the participant's thoughts of Windows Vista, with their answers based solely on their knowledge from word of mouth.
The campaign was part of Microsoft's efforts to change what it felt was an unfair negative consumer perception of the operating system.
For some companies it is important to understand the buzz surrounding a product before committing to the market.
Despite opening up mass tourism to Crete and the Algarve in 1970, the package tour industry declined during the 1970s.
Although his concept was borrowed from the bicycle industry, its origin was often misattributed to Sloan.
In contrast, LBA gives consumers relevant information rather than spam; therefore, it increases the chances of getting higher responses.
However, following the 2009 scandal, when Woods was found to have had relationships with several women while married to his wife, Nike began to see shifts in their sales.
References External links Search Engine Roundtable Summary PR Week Article On Media Monitoring Imedia Article WhatsApp Blaster Facebook Monitoring Earlier PR Week Article On Media Monitoring
First, the merchant "baits" the customer by advertising a product or service at a low price; then when the customer goes to purchase the item, they discover that it is unavailable, and the merchant pressures them instead to purchase a similar but more expensive product ("switching").
A highly criticized example occurred when Facebook, with over 25 million accounts in Myanmar, neglected to police rage-inducing hate speech posts targeting the Rohingya Muslim minority that allegedly facilitated the Rohingya genocide.
The technology enables advertisers to bid on specific keywords or phrases and ensures ads appear with the results of search engines.
For example, while a standalone home theater amplifier may offer extensive equalization options, a HTIB amplifier may simply provide a few factory-set EQ presets.
This ambitious project attempted to put 52 unique games into a single cartridge, but shoddy programming and heavy code reuse between games, combined with a hefty $200 (USD) retail price, resulted in this game often being considered one of the worst multicarts.
Legislation In many countries, it is illegal to place such posters on private property without the consent of the property owner, or to post on public property without a sign permit from the local government.
Release The videos were made available on the WHIH World News' YouTube channel, with some of them debuting in publications such as Mashable, BuzzFeed, and WIRED Insider.
Many credit card issuers who catch onto a consumer using this technique will be reluctant to offer the teaser rate to such consumers.
Beginning in 2024, a trend on social media involving the hiding of Tiny Jesus, Mini Jesus, or Little Jesus figurines in various high-traffic locations began.
Portal A produced the scripted original series Action Royale with Snapchat Originals, and released Level Up with Stephen Curry, an episodic series with Snapchat Originals and The Best Snaps Show, a daily talk show for Snapchat Originals.
Also as well the Euboea Workers' Center, Euboea, sent a letter of complaint to the competent labour Greek inspectorates authorities, conveying reports from the Employees' Association at the Club Med Gregolimano company in Euboea regarding working conditions at the Club Med Gregolimano resort.
In addition to archive footage from the films, the videos also use original material and "footage showing what these fights and their aftermaths look [like] from the civilian perspective".
Providers also report that captured call-data is more detailed and actionable than click-related data.
However, no cause of action will exist so long as the purveyor is capable of actually selling the goods advertised, even if they aggressively push a competing product.
This is used for inbound internet marketing of its products, being judged by co-author of social technologies book Groundswell, Josh Bernoff, as being four times as cost-effective as advertising.
When a request, such as "pour me a beer," "dance on the bar" or "fight like a Jedi", was recognized the "virtual bartender" carried out the task before returning to her idling position to await another request.
Advergaming examples include billboards advertising for (and product placement of) Bawls energy drink in Fallout: Brotherhood of Steel, and billboards for Adidas sportswear in FIFA International Soccer.
"Investigating the Effectiveness of Product Placements in Television Shows: The Role of Modality and Plot Connection Congruence on Brand Memory and Attitude".
Collaborations The game has also collaborated with many luxury fashion brands to publish expansions and editions to the game, beginning in April 2020 with Coach.
Results identify strategies that are likely to drive sales among the target audience and be distributed throughout relevant social networks.
The first of the seven tables in their paper, Table 1 (below), shows the loadings of the factors generated through principal component extraction and varimax rotation.
In 2011, this trend continued when Starbucks opted to remove its name from the logo leaving only the center image.
Social K-factor With the advent of social media, a new evolution to the K-factor concept has emerged.
Functionality A tag management system replaces multiple manually embedded tags with a single container tag that is installed across all areas of a digital property.
Directed by Max Fleischer for Jaminson Handy, the film is an advertisement for Chevrolet automobiles.
(Gallup Management Journal survey, 1/12/06) A 2008 BlessingWhite study found that there's a clear correlation between engagement and retention, with 85% of engaged employees indicating that they plan to stay with their employer for at least the next 10 months.
Unipole (or monopole) sign is an advertising sign (usually billboard) frame structure mounted atop a single steel pole or column.
This was partly born out of necessity, to prevent William Randolph Hearst from knowing in advance that the film was a parallel of his life.
They use real-time video editing software to instantly create and share social videos in native formats such as vertical video for Snapchat and square video for Instagram.
The most successful telemarketing service providers focus on generating more "qualified" leads with a higher probability of conversion into actual sales.
In the United States, the National Do Not Call Registry was created in 2003 to offer consumers a choice of whether to receive telemarketing calls at home.
Some brand deals were made by having ads at the beginning of each video, and the YouTuber would make a profit from each view they receive.
In 2019, Spotify's head of marketing described this phenomenon as a "FOMO effect" which has encouraged people to use Spotify over other music apps.
Research The overwhelming majority of previous studies have focused upon the effect of fear arousal, but have not investigated the effect of fear reduction.
Paid inclusion proves to be particularly useful for cases where pages are dynamically generated and frequently modified.
Atari was initially the only developer and publisher of games for the 2600; it sold the 2600 itself at cost and relied on the games for profit.
Cinderella then goes out to the ball in the car, with the rest of the story told by the sequel A Ride for Cinderella.
The film Superstar, starring Will Ferrell and Molly Shannon, shows every resident in town driving Volkswagen New Beetles, possibly for comic effect.
Visibility into what influences the audience, when and to what extent, allows marketers to optimize media spend for conversions and compare the value of different marketing channels, including paid and organic search, email, affiliate marketing, display ads, social media and more.
However, this technique provides more long-term advantages because high payments has a better possibility to expand the target with combined sales force, thus providing advantages on a long-term basis for companies.
As for simple decorating to stage, people often use art, painting, accessories, lights, greenery, and carpet to stage the home, to give potential buyers a more attractive first impression of the property.
Reception Brand Republic reported on the insertion of personal images, stating "while the idea has been widely used in other applications, OfficeMax's version has become an internet phenomenon." Adweek reported "Elf Yourself has hit the bull's-eye of viral success: It has seeped into pop culture.
The aim was to dedicate one school to each of the victims of 2014 Peshawar school massacre, which was achieved by their tenth anniversary in 2024.
Usually 2 to 3 minutes in length and consisting of footage from different projects, a showreel typically supplements a résumé and is used to promote the person to talent agents, producers, and casting directors.
Dynamic creative optimization (DCO), is a form of programmatic advertising that allows advertisers to optimize the performance of their creative using real-time technology.
When a compilation album includes a track from a different record company, the royalties are split between the artist and the original record company.
In 2005, an Estonian blogger led a successful campaign to link the word masendav (Estonian for dismal or depressive) to the homepage of Estonian Centre Party.
After the account became verified on 14 January 2019, the post rose in popularity and likes, which snowballed into coverage in various media outlets.
The television series, My Manny, achieved notable success and has since been renewed for a third season.
Sellers also need to try selling a brand to themselves; this is so they know they are passionate about a product and confident it can succeed.
An intelligent, quick-witted scholar in her father's shadow, she uncovers the truth of her universe's creation, and seeks to prevent the impending cataclysm that the falling Ancients pose.
Key concepts Organizational philosophy A mission-driven, or mission-based organization can be non-profit or for-profit, public or private, governmental or non-governmental, philanthropic or religious.
See also Windows Vista editions Windows Easy Transfer Windows Ultimate Extras Windows 7 == References ==
The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), effective in 2020, grants California residents the right to know what personal data is collected about them and to opt out of its sale, imposing additional compliance requirements on onboarding companies operating in the United States.
Advertising in premium venues or platforms (where consumers have already paid) – movie theaters, cable TV, satellite radio – are routine and generally accepted.
Annoyance stimuli – whether nuanced, subtle, or overt – might involve creating an unpleasant sound, such as a bad jingle – one that consumers can't get out of their heads.
Sports facilities Some health clubs offer sports facilities such as swimming pools, squash and basketball courts, indoor running tracks, ice rinks, or boxing areas.
Because the score for a movie is usually composed after the film is finished (which is long after trailers are released), a trailer will incorporate music from other sources.
On several occasions, idol groups' fans often use their own money to promote their favorite group or group members.
There are two options when it comes to illumination: this can either be a light box or front-lit for versatility.
Best Buy has guaranteed to match the online price of goods listed on Amazon.com, and in April 2013 announced it would begin to lease out space to manufacturers such as Samsung, so customers can view working products and then purchase them at the MSRP.
Later this humorous search index behavior was characterized as a "Google bomb" in regards to Craig James’ campaign for elected office.
Bernays qualified the use of a reputable and prominent sponsoring groups in the statement, “The most useful method in a multiple society like ours to indicate the support of an idea of the many varied elements that make up our society.
From the influencers According to a paper by Duncan Watts and colleagues entitled: "Everyone's an influencer", the most common risk in viral marketing is that of the influencer not passing on the message, which can lead to the failure of the viral marketing campaign.
ParcelMotel has operated since 2012 and had 124 locations providing over 10,000 locker spaces throughout the Republic of Ireland.
Details According to DAGMAR, each purchase prospect goes through 4 steps: Awareness Comprehension Conviction Action These steps are also known as ACCA advertising formula.
Next issue is whether the customer was coerced to purchase both the tying and the tied products as Article 102(2)(d) suggests: ‘making the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by the other parties of supplementary obligations’.
Another way of using SONCAS is to use every single point to cover all six topics to be sure to make the customer like the product.
For example, in the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater December 6, 2019, premier of Greenwood at City Center in New York, Donald Byrd (born 1949), the choreographer, described his work as "theater of disruption" ...
Haunted by her love-deprived relationship with her late father, this once strong role model and medical student, is gripped by anorexia.
MAGEL2 mutation causes decreased secretion of hormones, such as: oxytocin, AVP, somatostatin, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, growth hormone, and luteinizing hormone.
Throughout her career, she has appeared in numerous advertisements, modeled for several products and fashion lines, and otherwise become "a blue chip in the advertising world" according to Maeil Business Newspaper in 2022.
Wannarexia is more commonly, but not always, found in teenagers who feel the need to lose weight and think that anorexia will solve their dissatisfaction with their appearance, and is likely caused by a combination of cultural and media influences.
Julius made national headlines and received a "cult following" for his powerful hits against opposing players on kickoffs, with most videos going viral.
In 2024, Steffi Cao, writing for The Daily Beast, observed Wonyoung's status as "something of a platonic ideal for fans online...
Plot As Stella enters what she hopes will be the exciting world of adolescence, she discovers that her big sister and role model, Katja, is hiding an eating disorder.
She joined the "mantellates", a group of pious women, primarily widows, informally devoted to Dominican spirituality; later these types of urban pious groups would be formalized as the Third Order of the Dominicans, but not until after Catherine's death.
Having reached the limit, in order to free herself, Sonia commits an extreme gesture so, taking advantage of a moment of distraction from Vittorio, she grabs the fire iron and kills him by hitting him on the head.
In November 2007, Microsoft shut down four pro-ana sites on the Spanish-language version of its Spaces social networking service at the behest of IQUA, the Internet regulatory body for Catalonia.
The distress and distraction of muscle dysmorphia may provoke absences from school, work, and social settings.
(Waterville, Maine: Five Star, 2003) Richard Noll: Vampires, Werewolves and Demons: Twentieth century reports in the psychiatric literature.
Myers compares the film's style and themes to Todd Haynes' works and the melodramas of Douglas Sirk, with its saturated colors, Midcentury furniture, and a story of a woman trying to escape her life.
However, as with most eating disorders, it disproportionately affects women, preoccupation with shape and weight puts this group at elevated risk for eating disorders, including this one.
Frequency and tendency In studies relating to chewing and spitting, it was seen that 34% of individuals with eating disorders partake in CS.
At the end of the video a small propaganda of the video was shown and the voice of Stirling at the back informed the viewers about the game.
Mechanisms Biochemical: Eating behavior is a complex process controlled by the neuroendocrine system, of which the Hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal-axis (HPA axis) is a major component.
Furthermore, research has found significant positive correlations between orthorexia nervosa and both narcissism and perfectionism, but no significant correlation between orthorexia nervosa and self esteem.
Eating Disorder Examination Child version (Edition 17.0D/C.1) Source: The Child version is based on the adult EDE-17.0D and is designed for children and adolescents ages 8 and older.
Anorexia nervosa also commonly occurs in athletes who play sports where a low bodyweight is thought to be advantageous for aesthetics or performance, such as dance, cheerleading, gymnastics, running, figure skating and ski jumping (Anorexia athletica).
Wasted: A Memoir of Anorexia and Bulimia is an autobiography written by Marya Hornbacher, detailing her fourteen-year battle with eating disorders.
The catalogue includes names and addresses of national eating disorders organizations, listings of prominent treatment facilities, as well as a comprehensive listing of books from the field.
Before the 20th century Although diagnostic criteria for bulimia nervosa did not appear until 1979, evidence suggests that binging and purging were popular in certain ancient cultures.
Personal life and photography Lene Marie Fossen had Anorexia nervosa since age 10, stating she started to starve in order to prevent growing up.
When attempting to decipher the origin of bulimia nervosa in a cognitive context, Christopher Fairburn et al.'s cognitive-behavioral model is often considered the golden standard.
The International Journal of Eating Disorders is a peer-reviewed medical journal covering the study of eating disorders.
Assessment The Nine Item Avoidant/Restrictive Food Intake Disorder Screen (NIAS) has been developed to assess the presence of ARFID.
See also Body Attitudes Test Bulimia Test-Revised Eating Attitudes Test Eating Disorder Inventory SCOFF questionnaire == References ==
Cynthia MacGregor (March 26, 1964 – February 13, 1996) was a professional tennis player from the United States.
On stage, she made many appearances in the West End and the regions including playing Wendy Darling in J.M.
By the summer of 1774, Dwight was down to ninety-five pounds, and his father whisked him home to Northampton, Massachusetts, where he was expected to die.
Overall, CS contributes to body dissatisfaction, while body dissatisfaction in turn contributes to CS.
Bulimia nervosa CBT is the best treatment for bulimia nervosa, as indicated by a number of studies including one from the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence.
Thus, total FCQ-S scores can range between 15 and 75 and higher scores indicate more intense current food craving.
Artwork In the album's artwork, Lo wears a metallic, robotic scorpion stinger—a reference to her astrological sign, Scorpio—attached to her back while her vagina-inspired logo lies on the side of her hip.
The diet can also cause choking because the cotton balls cannot be broken down and must be eaten whole.
These stressors could include rejection or pressure by peers, and physical, mental, and emotional harassment.
Those who identify as a sexual minority are at increased risk for victimization due to their identity.
On the self-improvement side, some proponents have rushed to buy books which Wonyoung has read, such as Super-Translation: The Words of Buddha and Schopenhauer to Read in Your Forties, both of which saw rapid surges in sales following their recommendations by or sightings with Wonyoung.
References External links Defining Purging Disorder in Practice "Professor Identifies New Eating Disorder - Purging Disorder".
The Thessalians seeing the livelihood of Erysichthon piling up said "from Mestra came horse and cow and other things" (ἐγένετο ἐκ Μήστρας αὐτῷ καὶ ἵππος καὶ βοῦς καὶ τἄλλα, egeneto ek Mēstras autōi kai hippos kai bous kai talla), and this is how the myth developed.
Toward that goal, McEvoy hooked up with producer Rupert Hine (who worked with Stevie Nicks, Tina Turner, Suzanne Vega, and Duncan Sheik).
Survival into adulthood is possible and oldest patient with SYS is 36 years olds (at the time of article's publication).
The extensive use of drum loops on the album was a complete change in style from McEvoy's previous work.
Passing out, she hallucinates that she is in a tree where she kisses Luke, who is able to get her to see how sick she is.
He had an eating disorder known as pica, a psychological disorder characterised by an appetite for substances that are largely non-nutritive.
According to Project HEAL, a typical treatment episode costs an average of $80,000, and full recovery can take years totaling around $250,000 total.
Many of the cases they observed had symptoms that overlapped with those of NES, but this study was the first to discover that NSRED was different from NES in the fact that those with NSRED were either partially or completely unaware of their actions at night while those with NES were aware.
History The first case of NSRED was reported in 1955, but over the next 36 years, only nine more reports were made of this syndrome.
Even there, her brother torments her by forcing her to lie to the therapists or forcing her to save food for him (against the center's rules).
In 1979, Gerald Russell first published a description of bulimia nervosa, in which he studied patients with a "morbid fear of becoming fat" who overate and purged afterward.
In addition to impairments in social cognition, it has been found that individuals with ED have an inability to recognize, label, and respond to different emotional states, and are impaired in visual recognition tasks.
These guides state that drinking urine tends to worsen rather than relieve dehydration due to the salts in it, and that urine should not be consumed, even when no other fluid is available.
Originally released as a single in 1961 by Guzman's and Martinez's band Los Teen Tops, "Popotitos" was also covered by a wide range of Spanish-speaking artists such as Ricky Martin and Miguel Ríos.
Those diagnosed with this disorder do not develop wounds on the bitten areas of their hands or lose any skin.
FX executives wanted to use the two series to begin building comedy programming and broaden the network's demographic.
Depending on its goal, each research study may require a different set of reliability and validity assessments.
The series debuted on August 4, 2005, to poor critical reviews and was cancelled in October 2005, when FX picked Sunny over Starved for renewal.
Unintentionally campy (or purposely, it's hard to tell) and marred by ridiculous plotting and dialogue, #Horror is mostly just a horror." Christine N.
Cat arrives, and Alex allows the girls into her walk-in safe where numerous pieces of jewelry and clothing are stored.
It has been repeatedly shown to effectively reduce body dissatisfaction, negative mood, unhealthy diet, and disordered eating.
Bonnier also described three different partial body pattern alterations, hyperschématie (French; 'an overestimation of body size'), hyposchématie ('an underestimation of body size'), and paraschématie ('a displacement of body parts including internal organs').
Later on, she learns that Megan, another woman in the house, miscarried her baby, having resumed her purging after reaching 12 weeks gestation and believing it was safe.
Influenced by Platonic dualism and earlier schools such as Pythagoreanism, certain sects believed that bodily pleasures and needs—including food—distracted the soul from its divine purpose.
Gigwise writer Jordan White described the album as "hot-bodied" additionally stating that is "overtly camp and doesn't shy from its playful side".
Evolution Thinspiration images were normally shared online in the early 2000s and 2010s on social media websites and forums, specifically in Pro-Ana groups, but not exclusively.
Findings of a replication study with a larger, more diverse sample mirrored these results, and a study looking at the relationship between food insecurity and bulimia nervosa similarly found greater food insecurity to be associated with elevated levels of eating pathology.
Behavior People with dermatophagia chew their skin out of compulsion, and can do so on a variety of places on their body.
Gram's friends, The Crickets, also recorded the song in 1974; Gram had planned to join them in the studio.
Release The film had its premiere at the 2023 South by Southwest Film & TV Festival in Austin on March 11, 2023.
The dolls were featured on TV shows, such as “The Price is Right” (December 12, 1979) and “Mork and Mindy” and were pictured in magazines with celebrities such as Robin Williams, Chaka Khan, and Arthur Ashe.
Headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, ANAD is a non-profit organization working in the areas of support, awareness, advocacy, referral, education, and prevention.
On Waitangi Day 2003, Moros died at age 35 after collapsing at her home in the Auckland suburb of Mount Wellington home.
The CEQ is particularly suited for assessing craving across different substances (including food) as a specific substance or food that the items refer to can be specified.
The videos have engendered copious comments and have created a forum for people around the world to discuss all aspects of eating disorders.
Therefore, they have better chances to get efficiently treated from these short-term treatment programs.
Dermatophagia (from Ancient Greek δέρμα (derma) 'skin' and φαγεία (phageia) 'eating') or dermatodaxia (from δήξις (dexis) 'biting') is a compulsion disorder of gnawing or biting one's own skin, most commonly at the fingers.
Eating shows are expanding their influence on internet broadcasting platforms and serve as virtual communities and as venues for active communication among internet users.
Ricky Junior Naputi (June 20, 1973 – November 10, 2012) was a Guamanian man who apparently died from overeating in his apartment in Mangilao, Guam, at 39 years old.
Maybe that 'friend' is Loudon Wainwright III, Edith Piaf, or R.E.M., but it's someone who can heal the hurt, and that's what is really important.Snapshots weaves a delicate spell.
Her poetic short films were made in the context of the London Film-Makers’ Co-operative in the 1980’s, which “developed a new form of mixed-genre film-making [….] which marked a new stage in experimental film in Britain”, according to Jacqueline Rose.
Lead actress Tracey Gold was actually recovering from the disease while making the movie and used her own life experience for the portrayal of Nancy.
Its prevalence among patients with trichotillomania is estimated to be around 37.5%, with 33% developing trichobezoars.
The song was written and composed by Stirling, Dia Frampton, and the song's producer, Mark Maxwell, under his production moniker SILAS.
It is viewed as controversial because it affects the self esteem of young women and it is a variation of thinspiration because it can influence consumers to go to drastic measures to attain that body type, possibly in a quick and unhealthy manner.
The booklet was later reworked and included in Bulimia: A Guide to Recovery, which is cited as the first self-help book about bulimia.
Upon Beth's return to school, her school counselor (Khadijah Karriem) confronts the girl with the observation that she may be bulimic.
'Little fatty' was once a term of endearment for children in China, but today dieting is popular and thinness is the ideal.
People who are capable of "handsfree purging", or the induction of vomiting by the willful opening of the esophageal sphincter in a manner similar to belching, while contracting the stomach muscles, do not have Russell's sign.
Brown was fat as a child and describes himself as being "haunted by the 'fat kid mentality'." Producers only discovered that each of the principal cast members had food issues after the casting process was completed.
The Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire (abbreviated as TFEQ) is a questionnaire often applied in food intake-behavior related research.
Another disorder, known as excoriation disorder, the repetitive action of uncontrollably picking at one's skin, can sometimes accompany dermatophagia.
50% of people with SYS inherited mutation from their father and remainder are de novo mutation (which means that mutation is new and none of the parents have it).
To take the twelve steps and practice the twelve traditions, OA program literature recommends using nine "Tools of Recovery." These are A Plan of Eating, Sponsorship, Meetings, the Telephone, Writing, Literature, an Action Plan, Anonymity and Service.
Red Band Society is an American teen medical comedy-drama television series that aired on Fox from September 17, 2014, to February 7, 2015.
CBT-Enhanced A common form of CBT that is used to treat eating disorders is called CBT-Enhanced (CBT-E) and was developed by Christopher G.
Conclusions The results illustrated that the original three-factor model fits the Japanese data well.
Percy treated him with laudanum without success; further treatments with wine vinegar and tobacco pills were likewise unsuccessful.
The ABOS is useful for evaluations of patients with anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN) before, during, and after clinical treatments.
Patients reach and maintain minimum remaining psychopathological symptoms, in cases of over half the adults and about 80% of adolescents patients.
History The charity was founded in 1989 from the amalgamation of the existing UK charities, Anorexic Aid and Anorexic Family Aid.
Decreased distress tolerance and increased impulsivity were also found in trichotillomania patients with a family history of obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Pregnancy In women, pica is "most often seen during pregnancy," with estimates of 27.8% of pregnant women experiencing pica, but pica prevalence and manifestation is culturally and geographically heterogenous.
In a later scene, Beth first hides a severe symptom (bleeding gums) from her friends, but then teaches one friend (Kady Cole) how to purge by inducing vomiting.
Rhodes Wood Hospital was acquired by Elysium Healthcare in 2016 and enjoyed a Care Quality Commission rating of Good at their first CQC inspection in 2017.
During a therapy session, Olivia finally talks to her therapist how she's really been feeling which causes the ghost of Matt to go into a rage, screaming at her about how he hates her and never loved her.
Summer suffers a fainting spell while trying to put it out, after which Honey tries to buy a plane ticket to run away to Australia, where her father is.
Current diagnoses are based on the idea of insulin restriction being a feature of existing anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa.
Release and promotion On April 9, Stirling posted on her PledgeMusic account three teaser pictures of the upcoming "Shatter Me" music video, only the persons who had pre-ordered the album had access to this images.
The charity is dedicated to helping people with anorexia nervosa, bulimia, binge eating disorder, avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder, and other specified feeding or eating disorder, and providing information to the public about these conditions.
Activism McRoberts had been an active supporter of Scottish Friends of the Earth's Fight the Fumes campaign.
A friend tries to cheer her up by telling her she is "skinny enough." Beth snaps at the girl saying she doesn't throw up to lose weight.
Two studies of adults with intellectual disabilities living in institutions found that 21.8% and 25.8% of these groups had pica.
Mentalization describes a person's ability to understand the mental state of themself and others based on overt behavior.
phagophobia is an anxiety disorder characterized by a fear of eating, it is usually initiated by an adverse experience while eating such as choking or vomiting.
Thinner (marketed as Stephen King's Thinner) is a 1996 American body horror film directed by Tom Holland and written by Michael McDowell and Holland.
As a choice Some people will engage in self-cannibalism as an extreme form of body modification, for example, by ingesting parts of their own skin.
In actuality, they have no control; they cannot stop exercising or regulating food intake without feeling guilty.
Her letters demonstrate her intelligence, wit, creativity and confidence that she is speaking with authority from God.
The story revolves around a high school senior (Bellisario) who struggles with life after the tragic death of her twin brother (Tom Felton), causing her physical and mental health, as well as her grades and social relationships, to deteriorate rapidly.
However, in China, because of the difference in culture, some underage patients refuse help and they will not trust the therapist because they see it as another way of their parents controlling them.
Some claim that the history of anorexia nervosa begins with descriptions of religious fasting dating from the Hellenistic era and continuing into the medieval period.
The patient could be injured during these episodes and he might not be conscious and won't remember them.
There is overlap in phenomenology, course, comorbidity, family history, and pharmacologic treatment response of these disorders.
Gourmand syndrome can be related to, and shares biological features with, addictive and obsessive disorders.
Dictamen manuals, written by men, provided strict guidelines on the proper form for writing letters at this time,with style and conventions that Catherine learned to master.
Doctors and people in the public began to question her abilities and wished to perform tests to determine the truthfulness of her claims.
The main session in a chapter meeting is usually one of two types: education or special recognition.
However, because the FCI names specific foods, it necessitates cultural adaptations when applied in different countries, which results in different versions of the FCI (i.e., different foods, number of items, and subscales).
One could enjoy fish, but one had to be careful not to take this enjoyment too far and become an opsophagos.
Events Calò, a speech therapy student from Domodossola, was engaged to Marco Mariolini, a 40-year-old antique dealer from Pisogne.
Erysichthon used her shape-shifting ability to sell her numerous times to make money to feed himself, but no amount of food was enough.
"Mollie" Fancher (1848–1916), otherwise known as the "Brooklyn Enigma", was well known for her claim of not eating or eating very little for extended periods of time.
Often, individuals often think diabulimia is less common than it is and do not know how difficult it is to overcome.
Now you can't...when bullying follows you home, and there's no escape and no end, to me, that's horror.
The Independent critic Roisin O'Connor commented that "the delicate shimmer of the tambourine and the cello gliding sweetly at the start of the build on the chorus also make this one of the best-structured songs on the record." The A.V.
Approximately 72% of individuals with anorexia report experiencing a traumatic event prior to the onset of eating disorder symptoms, with binge-purge subtype reporting the highest rates.
Psychological There are various other psychological issues that may factor into anorexia nervosa, some fulfill the criteria for a separate Axis I diagnosis or a personality disorder which is coded Axis II and thus are considered comorbid to the diagnosed eating disorder.
She believed that to achieve her goal as a professional dancer, she must have a body sitting according to the standards of the society, otherwise her dreams of becoming a famous dancer would never happen.
Hungry: A Mother and Daughter Fight Anorexia is a 2009 book cowritten by Sheila Himmel and Lisa Himmel.
Alongside the announcement of Pretty Swede Records' founding on 3 May 2022, Lo issued "No One Dies from Love" as the album's following single and the first material released under the newly founded imprint.
The current version is adjusted to the DSM-5 and reflects the latest changes to eating disorders criteria.
Construct validity of the FCQ-T has been supported in that higher FCQ-T scores are predictive of stronger food-cue reactivity (e.g., larger increases in current food craving when exposed to tempting food stimuli) and higher consumption of high-calorie foods.
Beat became the Eating Disorders Association's working title in 2007, and was formally adopted in 2018.
Nevertheless, Auger argue that behavioral strategies should complement the overall treatment plan and should include deliberate placement of food to avoid indiscriminate wandering, maintenance of a safe sleep environment, and education regarding proper sleep hygiene and stress management.
Neuronal activation in the OFC decreases when an individual is full, however there is a disturbance in this pathway in individuals with AN and BN.
Sheila Himmel Sheila Himmel was a restaurant reviewer from the San Jose Mercury News from 1996 to 2005.
Treatment involves cognitive behavioral therapy, and other support services offered by a multidisciplinary team who work both in diabetes medicine and on eating disorders.
It is almost always associated with eating disorders and is the most characteristic skin condition indicative of purging.
Wasted has sold in the United States over a million copies and has been translated into fourteen languages.
The cognitive behavioral treatment of eating disorders emphasizes on the minimization of negative thoughts about body image and the act of eating, and attempts to alter negative and harmful behaviors that are involved in and perpetuate eating disorders.
promotes evidence-based treatment to reduce the suffering associated with eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa (A.N.), bulimia nervosa (B.N.), and eating disorders not otherwise specified (E.D.N.O.S.).
In a nutshell, the Wonyoung effect is all about self-care, from skincare, to makeup and fitness—think: what would Wonyoung do?" On the aesthetic side, some proponents have tried to use Wonyoung's specific makeup products in pursuit of her unique looks, namely "Doe eyes, rosy cheeks and...
One study also showed that Interpersonal psychotherapy may be as effective as Cognitive-behavioral therapy, however the interpersonal psychotherapy may be slower to reach its effects.
White; it is established that Cat is suffering from psychological problems and has been in trouble for bullying the girls.
Gull was struck by the similarity of the case to that of Miss A, even to the detail of the pulse and respiration observations.
Her health begins to deteriorate, though she refuses to seek help, even as the pressure to confront her issues grows.
Even with treatment, relapse is common (some estimate over 50% relapse within six years), requiring long-term reassessment for early intervention.
He abuses his authority to extort food from restaurants and delivery people, which eventually costs him his job.
Finding the optimal insulin dose to effectively lower one's blood glucose to the desired levels may take some time, even with the assistance of healthcare professionals.
However, if trichophagia is severe or chronic, a large mass of undigested hair can accumulate in the stomach, resulting in a trichobezoar.
While in service on board the French ship Hoche, a sailor's leg was shot off by cannon fire, and Domery grabbed the severed limb and began to eat it until a crew member wrestled it from him and threw it into the sea.
In The Wall Street Journal Sally Satel wrote that "Though there is no shortage of memoirs about anorexia, the sharp storytelling, solid research and gentle humor in 'Good Girls' make it especially appealing".
The diagnostic criteria for anorexia nervosa (all of which needing to be met for diagnosis) are: Restriction of energy intake relative to requirements leading to a low body weight.
1873: Ernest-Charles Lasègue Ernest-Charles Lasègue was a French physician who practised at the Salpêtrière, Pitié and Necker hospitals.
Josie is relentlessly mean spirited, so alienated that you can hardly feel sorry for her in your haste to get away from her.
After a noticeable change in her body, she becomes fixated on her appearance and withdraws from others, spending most of her time alone.
A 2017 exhibition of her self portraits depicting the effects of her struggle with anorexia, gained significant attention in Norway.
Of note, OSFED is not limited to these five examples, and can include individuals with heterogeneous eating disorder presentations (i.e., OSFED-other).
In other words, less thin ideal images portrayed by the media resulted in less thin-ideal internalization.
This conflict is paralleled in the film as Beth's grandmother (Diane Ladd) tries to console her daughter without really understanding her situation.
However, the disorder is not as harmless as it seems since underlying medical causes that remain undiagnosed may lead to complications.
The authors suggest these organizational frameworks can be used to show how research can help transform consumer eating environments.
These groups continue to provide peer-to-peer support and self-help for the individuals and families affected by eating disorders and are available at no cost.
HLA member Abbie Harper wrote on their website, “We asked for adequate staffing and ongoing training to keep up with our changing and growing Helpline, and opportunities for promotion to grow within NEDA.
Tom Holland was hired to direct the following year as King was a fan of Holland's prior films such as Child's Play.
Riley nevertheless brings Ethan to her apartment to have sex with him, but ultimately stops short of taking off her clothes due to her body insecurities.
Billboard Best Sellers in Stores) #45 (B-side (Billboard Hot 100)) #14 Canada (CHUM Chart) #21 (b-side) Canada (CHUM Chart) #11 UK Singles Chart Hush version In April 1975, Australian glam rock band Hush released a version, which peaked at number 4.
In June 2017, Gemma Rose Cobb examined the phrase in her PhD dissertation for the University of Sussex, titled Critiquing the thin ideal in pro-anorexia online spaces.
However, given the correlation with eating disorders, research suggests that treatments that are used for eating disorders, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, may also be effective for eliminating chew and spit behaviors.
Online Services: The charity's website includes message boards, an online chat facility, online support groups, and a HelpFinder directory.
Multiple media outlets reported that the chatbot failed to respond to intuitive prompts including, "I hate my body," and “I want to be thin so badly.” NEDA executives publicly denied that the chatbot was meant to replace the human helpline.
Success with combinations of dopaminergic and opioid drugs, with the occasional addition of sedatives, also was found in seven patients without associated sleep disorders.
Opsophagos (Ancient Greek: ὀψοφάγος) was a type of ancient Greek person who exhibited a seemingly uncontrollable desire for opson, or relishes.
It also supports the efforts of the TOPS Genome Registry at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, NC, under the direction of Michael Olivier, Ph.D.
The scale, in fact, indicates the absence or presence of a certain behaviour, but it does not address the frequency of the observed behaviour.
However, during this study only 10 percent of the patients were able to lose more than one third of their initial excess weight, which was not a viable percentage.
The themes explored in "Shatter Me" were based in part on Stirling's experiences with an eating disorder.
Queen Maria of Naples made one such request on 1 February 1388 as did several other nobles and princes.
On returning home, Vittorio loses his temper and humiliates her, forcing her to be naked and throwing the food she had managed to hide into the fireplace.
They had met in 1982 while Carpenter was attending resident therapy in New York City with psychotherapist Steven Levenkron.
Works Crome Yellow, 1921 novel The Wonder, 2022 film See also Anorexia mirabilis, Middle Ages Ann Moore (impostor) Inedia Scientific skepticism References Further reading Rudolph M.
Although the cases of Miss A and Miss B resulted in recovery, Gull states that he observed at least one fatality as a result of anorexia nervosa.
An athlete with sports anorexia tends to overexercise, to give themselves a sense of having control over their body.
When the doctor asks if she has been eating, she says that she usually eats properly, but has not lately because she was sick.
• Identification of a gene that plays a significant role in determining blood levels of HDL cholesterol.
Prevalence of ARFID compared to picky eating Children are often picky eaters, but this does not necessarily mean they meet the criteria for an ARFID diagnosis.
Presently PLAY hands protective gloves exist in concept and prototype only, but this intervention method could improve the quality of life of those with CP-induced dermatophagia.
A number of specialists in the treatment of eating disorders expressed concern that the program would either make light of or glamorize eating disorders.
Still haunted by her brother's passing, she tries to maintain a facade of normalcy while continually battling with her inner demons.
Despite its history of clinical use, centalun was never incorporated into the CSA and therefore remains unregulated as a drug of abuse.
Agomelatine, sold under the brand name Thymanax among others, is an atypical antidepressant most commonly used to treat major depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder.
It binds to these enzymes at a site that is distinct from fluoroquinolone binding sites, leading to inhibition of DNA replication and bacterial cell death.
Aprobarbital was never as widely used as more common barbiturate derivatives such as phenobarbital and is now rarely prescribed.
External links Clinical trial number NCT03959527 for "Zoliflodacin in Uncomplicated Gonorrhoea" at ClinicalTrials.gov
During his years in Turin, he was the mentor of the young writer and translator Fernanda Pivano, his former student at the Liceo D'Azeglio.
By augmenting standard hypnosis with narcotics and "synthesizing" mental states through the power of hypnotic suggestion, a negative mental state could be replaced by a positive one.
It is known to be very effective in protecting cells from oxidative damage caused by ultraviolet (UV) radiation.
An alternate isomer, 5-(2-bromophenyl)-7-fluoro-1,3-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one or "iso-flubromazepam", may have been sold under the same name.
On April 7, 2015, Swedish rapper Yung Lean, while living in Miami Beach, Florida, and recording his second studio album Warlord, was hospitalized at Mount Sinai Medical Center due to an overdose stemming from an addiction to Xanax, cocaine, and lean.
It is also formed by the action of alcoholic potash and methyl iodide on ethylidene diethyl sulfine, CH3CH(SO2C2H5)2 (which is formed by the oxidation of dithioacetal with potassium permanganate).
Death from therapeutic maintenance doses of ethyl loflazepate taken for 2 – 3 weeks has been reported in 3 elderly patients.
Metabolism Several metabolic pathways exist: One pathway involves alcohol dehydrogenase, particularly the IB (class I), beta polypeptide (ADH1B, EC 1.1.1.1) enzyme.
Arrest and conviction; the war in Italy Pavese, an apolitical person in highly politicized times, moved in antifascist circles.
Thirty-nine members of the Heaven's Gate UFO cult committed mass suicide in March 1997 by drinking a lethal dose of phenobarbital and vodka "and then lay down to die" hoping to enter an alien spacecraft.
Experiments in man indicated the major metabolites to be 3HHB, 3OHB and 1,5-dimethylbarbituric acid.
History Flunitrazepam was discovered at Roche as part of the benzodiazepine work led by Leo Sternbach; the patent application was filed in 1960 and it was first marketed in 1972.
The prohibition in the United States era was the period from 1920 to 1933 when the United States prohibited the production, importation, transportation, and sale of alcoholic beverages.
On the other hand, short-acting benzodiazepines may lead to breakthrough seizures, and are, therefore, not recommended for detoxification in an outpatient setting.
Over the next few years, Vélez worked for various studios as a freelance actress; she also spent two years in England, where she filmed The Morals of Marcus and Gypsy Melody (both 1936).
The press often referred to her by such names as "The Mexican Spitfire", "The Mexican It girl" and "The Mexican Kitten".
See also Substituted tetrahydroisoquinoline Anhalamine Anhalidine Anhalinine Gigantine Pellotine References External links Anhalonidine - Isomer Design
The Montreal Protocol targeted 1,1,1-trichloroethane as a compound responsible for ozone depletion and banned its use beginning in 1996.
This may be dose-related, although it has been reported at doses of as low as 4 mg/day, and may also be related to concomitant use of other medications that lower the seizure threshold.
It was concluded that further research is needed to evaluate the long-term effects of treatment and the most appropriate management strategy for elderly persons with chronic insomnia.
Because it has been traded and sublicensed by multiple companies, it can referred to by all three names.
It is found naturally in a variety of Australian and African plants including Evodia xanthoxyloides and Teclea gerrardii.
PKA then phosphorylates arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT), the penultimate enzyme in the melatonin synthesis pathway.
Synthesis Diethylmalonic acid [510-20-3] (1) is decarboxylated to 2-ethylvaleric acid [20225-24-5] (2).
His father was initially a salesman for a sash and door company, before opening a grocery store in Iowa.
Compared with the benzodiazepines, the nonbenzodiazepine sedative-hypnotics offer little if any advantages in efficacy or tolerability in elderly persons.
It is a central nervous system depressant and was soon found to be an effective anticonvulsant, hypnotic and sedative.
In the 2025 mystery film Wake Up Dead Man, lethal doses of pentobarbital are used as a slow-acting poison in the murder of two separate characters.
Fluorester (2,2,2-trifluoroethyl methacrylate) is an ester of methacrylic acid and TFEA, which can be used as a monomer in specialty paints.
1,1,1-Trichloroethane, also known as methyl chloroform and chlorothene, is a chloroalkane with the chemical formula CH3CCl3.
In the first step, vinyl chloride reacts with hydrogen chloride at 20–50 °C (68–122 °F) to produce 1,1-dichloroethane: H2C=CHCl + HCl → CH3CHCl2 This reaction is catalyzed by a variety of Lewis acids, mainly aluminium chloride, iron(III) chloride, or zinc chloride.
Pharmacology Pharmacodynamics Propiomazine is an antagonist of the dopamine D1, D2, and D4 receptors, the serotonin 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors, the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors M1, M2, M3, M4, and M5 receptors, α1-adrenergic receptor, and histamine H1 receptor.
It may be chemically related to certain other hypnotics and sedatives with atypical chemical structures.
Quetiapine binds strongly to serotonin receptors; the drug acts as a partial agonist at 5-HT1A receptors and as an antagonist to all other serotonin receptors it has affinity for.
Waugh's novel, The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold, is largely a fictionalised account of an episode Waugh himself experienced as a result of excessive use of chloral in combination with bromide and alcohol.
She returned to Los Angeles the following year, where she signed with RKO for the Wheeler & Woolsey comedy High Flyers (1937, featuring some of her celebrity impersonations).
Plasma concentrations increased rapidly and peaked at 1 hour after the dose, independent of dose size.
He also writes that he stopped taking the drug after his friend Vandi Haygood died from "steady doses of Dexamyl".
It was initially formulated in Cremophor for human use, but this original formulation was implicated in an unacceptable number of anaphylactic events.
However, due to blending limits for use in conventional combustion engines, it may be more efficient to convert GVL into liquid alkenes (or alkanes).
Embutramide (INN, USAN, BAN; brand name Embutane) is a potent sedative drug that is structurally related to GHB.
In this study, adults received either oral daprodustat or injected recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) (a standard of care treatment for people with anemia due to chronic kidney disease).
Metizolam (also known as desmethyletizolam) is a thienotriazolodiazepine that is the demethylated analogue of the closely related etizolam.
Side effects When compared with propofol, side effects such as pain on injection and respiratory depression appear to be less common with ciprofol.
Allobarbital was never particularly widely used compared to better known barbiturates such as phenobarbital and secobarbital, although it saw more use in some European countries such as Bulgaria and Slovakia.
Role in metabolism The determination of 6-OHM in human urine has been used to track the metabolism and excretion of melatonin using LC-MS/MS, providing quantifiable insights into circadian rhythm regulation and its oxidative role as a biomarker.
It has similar liver enzyme inducing effects to the closely related drug phenobarbital, which may be exploited in some clinical applications.
Its taste was slightly bitter, but better than the strong, unpleasant taste of the commonly used bromides.
It is preferred that they should be prescribed for only a few days at the lowest effective dose and avoided wherever possible in the elderly.
Mechanism of action Quazepam modulates specific GABAA receptors via the benzodiazepine site on the GABAA receptor.
Therefore, when co-administered with carbamazepine or other potent CYP3A4 inducers via IV, it is necessary to increase the dose of clomethiazole.
Special populations Adolescents Consuming large amounts of alcohol over a period of time can impair normal brain development in humans.
Vinylbital, also known as butylvinal, is a sedative hypnotic drug which is a barbiturate derivative.
It is a structural analog of phenazepam in which the chlorine atom has been replaced by a fluorine atom.
Both men were struggling actors who became struggling writers; their common interests led to a lengthy romantic relationship.
Zolpidem is a schedule IV controlled substance in the US under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 (CSA).
In September 2009, the FDA required a boxed warning be put on promethazine for injection, stating the contraindication for subcutaneous administration.
It has primarily anticonvulsant properties and was used occasionally for the treatment of epilepsy or convulsions, although not as commonly as better known barbiturates such as phenobarbital.
Air Force for aircrew and AFSOC forces include: Temazepam (Restoril), with a 12-hour restriction on subsequent flight operation Zaleplon (Sonata), with a 4-hour restriction on subsequent flight operation Zolpidem (Ambien), with a 6-hour restriction on subsequent flight operation == References ==
A newer meta-analysis showed that benzodiazepines are significantly more effective than serotonergic agents, regardless of treatment length.
Mechanism of action Talbutal binds at a distinct binding site associated with a Cl− ionophore at the GABAA receptor, increasing the duration of time for which the Cl− ionophore is open.
The half-lives of ramelteon and M-II are substantially longer than that of melatonin, which has a half-life in the range of 20 to 45 minutes.
Death has been reported with ingestion of as little as 12 g of meprobamate and survival with as much as 40 g.
This in turn may lead to a need for increasing doses of the drug to get the original desired pharmacological or therapeutic effect.
Other side effects that have been observed with a rate of statistical significance relative to placebo include asthenia, somnolence, nervousness, memory impairment, tremor, headache, diarrhea, and depression.
The α5 subtype (and to a lesser extent the α1 subtype) of GABAA are two of the most important targets in the brain that produce the effects of alcohol, and so one of the purposes for which QH-ii-066 was developed was to reproduce the GABAergic effects of alcohol separately from its other actions.
It was later shown to accumulate in the cerebrospinal fluid during sleep deprivation and induces sleep in animals.
Contraindications Contraindications of tiagabine include hypersensitivity (drug allergy) to tiagabine or its ingredients and severe hepatic impairment.
TFEA can also be prepared by hydrogenolysis of compounds of generic formula CF3−CHOH−OR (where R is hydrogen or an alkyl group containing from one to eight carbon atoms), in the presence of a palladium containing catalyst deposited on activated charcoal.
Sedgwick was not buried in her family's Sedgwick Pie cemetery plot but in the small Oak Hill Cemetery in Ballard, California.
Early anaesthetic research 1,1,1-Trichloroethane was one of the volatile organochlorides that have been tried as alternatives to chloroform in anaesthesia.
They are safer than the older barbiturates especially in overdosage and they may, when compared to the benzodiazepines, have less of a tendency to induce physical dependence and addiction, although these issues can still become a problem.
Etizolam overdose deaths are rising in Scotland, especially among women - for instance, the National Records of Scotland report on drug-related deaths have, "have increased significantly in Scotland in recent years, with a much greater percentage increase in deaths among women than among men".
Ethyl loflazeplate is commercialized in Belgium, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Portugal and Romania, under the trade name Victan.
In addition, AANAT knockout mice display significantly greater immobility times versus control mice in animal models of depression.
SCH-50971 is a histamine H3 receptor agonist which was under development for the treatment of anxiety disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, and migraine but was never marketed.
A trailblazer in aviation safety, he is credited as the originator of "spot landing", at one point averaging one parachute drop per day for an entire year.
Visual references to Sedgwick appear in Lady Gaga's music videos for "Applause" and "Marry the Night," while G-Eazy's 2014 song "Downtown Love" draws on her life story.
Safety It is an anesthetic agent with effects somewhat like isoflurane and halothane when ingested Chlorobutanol is also toxic to the liver, skin and eyes.
N-Acetyltryptamine is produced by Streptomyces djakartensis and other Streptomyces and Fusarium species.
In terms of chemical structure, it is an analogue of tricyclic compounds like quetiapine and amoxapine.
Overdose may be fatal especially if the victim presents with severe respiratory depression or unresponsiveness.
The administration of short-term barbiturates caused disinhibition which facilitated the soldiers' participation in psychotherapy.
Pioneering aviator Arthur Whitten Brown (of "transatlantic flight of Alcock and Brown" fame) died of an accidental overdose.
On 20 March 1940, she committed suicide by taking an overdose of barbiturates at her home in Viña del Mar.
Other uses for allobarbital included as an adjutant to boost the activity of analgesic drugs, and use in the treatment of insomnia and anxiety.
Butabarbital is metabolized almost entirely by the liver, products including polar alcohols, ketones, phenols, or carboxylic acids, before it is renally excreted in the urine.
Tasimelteon completed the phase III clinical trial in the United States for primary insomnia in 2010.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends lower doses of zolpidem due to impaired function the day after taking it.
See also Substituted tryptamine N-Acetylserotonin 5-Methoxytryptamine Melatonin References == Further reading ==
A 2019 review found that while melatonin may improve sleep in minimal cognitive impairment, after the onset of Alzheimer's disease it has little to no effect.
The murder and trial Shortly after the divorce was final, on 3 August 1917, Errázuriz drove from her home in Roslyn, New York to the home of her ex-husband, The Box, in Meadowbrook Colony, near Westbury.
Use during World War II A Public Broadcasting Service piece called "Battle of the Bulge" from the American Experience series which was broadcast in 1994 provided an overview of the use of this pharmaceutical.
It has been shown to be a potentiator of analgesia induced by morphine, but not by endogenous opioids, in rats.
Promethazine is listed as one of the drugs with the highest anticholinergic activity in a study of anticholinergic burden, including long-term cognitive impairment.
Type1 GABAA receptors include the α1 subunit containing GABAA receptors, which are responsible for the hypnotic properties of the drug.
Go pill A go pill refers to a wakefulness-promoting agent used for fatigue management, especially in a military combat-readiness context; this is contrasted with a no-go pill, which is used to promote sleep in support of combat operations.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus, or SCN, is a small region within the anterior hypothalamus of the brain that is responsible for orienting the organism's internal measurement of time to external time cues like daylight.
Chlorobutanol is formed by the reaction of chloroform and acetone in the presence of potassium or sodium hydroxide.
Doxylamine is available alone as immediate-release oral tablets containing 25 mg doxylamine succinate.
Pharmacology The drug acts as a potent, selective, and high-affinity agonist of the histamine H3 receptor.
In order to grow his parachute business, Atherton needed experienced parachutists, and was willing to pay a high rate to meet the demand.
Extremely high doses of melatonin increased REM sleep time and dream activity in people both with and without narcolepsy.
Atmospheric concentration 1,1,1-Trichloroethane is a fairly potent greenhouse gas with a 100-year global warming potential of 169 relative to carbon dioxide.
Anxiety disorders Tiagabine may be prescribed off-label to treat certain anxiety disorders, such as panic disorder and social anxiety disorder.
In humans, concentrations of ethanol in air above 10 mg/L caused initial coughing and smarting of the eyes and nose, which went away after adaptation.
Pyrazole and ethanol have been shown to inhibit the conversion of exogenous tryptophol to indole-3-acetic acid and to potentiate the sleep-inducing hypothermic effects of tryptophol in mice.
Doxylamine is a potent anticholinergic and has a side-effect profile common to such drugs, including blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, muscle incoordination, urinary retention, mental confusion, and delirium.
BP 2.94, or BP-294, also known as FUB-94, is a histamine H3 receptor agonist which was under development for the treatment of asthma, inflammation, pain, and peptic ulcers but was never marketed.
SB-649868 is a dual orexin receptor antagonist that was being developed by GlaxoSmithKline as a treatment for insomnia.
When inhaling non-stick cooking spray or other aerosol products, some users may filter the aerosolized particles out with a rag.
Psychiatric disturbances (hallucinations, agitation, confusion, depression, or memory problems), ataxia, difficulty breathing, or slow heartbeat could be signs of serious adverse effects and should be brought to the attention of a doctor immediately.
It was undergoing several phase III clinical trials in the US, and until October 2011 Novartis listed the drug as scheduled for submission to the FDA no earlier than 2012.
In 2013, her younger sister Mariel said in the documentary Running from Crazy that both Margaux and their older sister Muffet had been sexually abused by their father.
It found that quetiapine produces suicide attempts; death; QTc prolongation, low blood pressure; tachycardia; sedation; gynaecomastia; galactorrhoea, menstrual irregularity, and decline in white blood cell count at a rate similar to first-generation antipsychotics.
History Doxepin was discovered in Germany in 1963 and was introduced in the United States as an antidepressant in 1969.
In 1922, Widmark published his method for analyzing the alcohol content of fingertip samples of blood.
However, it has been reported to have a calming or sedative effect instead, with about one-fourth the potency of pellotine and with marked sedation occurring at doses of 100 to 250 mg.
Mazza, team physician for the Reading Phillies, said he prescribed Dexamyl, Eskatrol, Dexedrine, and Preludin for Steve Carlton, Larry Christenson, Tim McCarver, Pete Rose, Larry Bowa, and Greg Luzinski.
He returned to the screen with Infernal Circle (1928), Captain Fracasse (1929), and La barcarolle d'amour (1930).
Its effects in this regard were said to resemble those of the sedative prolactin releasers chlorpromazine and reserpine.
This is nonetheless less than a tenth that of carbon tetrachloride — which it replaced as a solvent — due to its relatively short atmospheric lifetime of about 5 years.
The drug is orally active and crosses the blood–brain barrier, although its intestinal absorption and central permeability may be reduced by its P-glycoprotein substrate activity.
Hexethal is considered similar in effects to pentobarbital, with a very fast onset of action but short duration of effects.
Uses Medical While extraordinarily rare today, narcosynthesis procedures (using sodium amytal and pentothal) were widely used in the United States in the post-World War II era when only a very few psychiatric treatments were available.
Furthermore, light exposure inhibits the synthesis of NAS and reduces the antidepressant effects of MAOIs.
The trial demonstrated a placebo-adjusted reduction of 15.5 points on the Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) at day 8, with 57.7% of patients achieving remission compared to 0% in the placebo group.
It rated the recommendation as weak and the quality of evidence as very low but concluded that the potential benefits outweighed the potential harms.
Studies in mice have shown GR-196,429 to produce both sleep-promoting effects and alterations of circadian rhythm, as well as stimulating melatonin release.
Acecarbromal (INN) (brand names Sedamyl, Abasin, Carbased, Paxarel, Sedacetyl, numerous others), also known as acetylcarbromal and acetyladalin, is a hypnotic and sedative drug of the ureide (acylurea) group discovered by Bayer in 1917 that was formerly marketed in the United States and Europe.
Moreover, high single doses of oral progesterone (1200 mg) produced significant cognitive and memory impairment.
Tiagabine may be used alongside selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), or benzodiazepines for anxiety.
Personal life She married Gary Winton, a furniture salesman, in 1954, and converted to her husband's Jewish faith; they were divorced in 1965, and he died in 1968.
(2-chloroethyl)dimethylamine (CDMA) & acetone oxime are reacted together to give dimethylaminoacetoxime (DMA acetoxime), CID:16641114 (3).
However, there is partial generalization of 5-MeO-DMT to the selective serotonin 5-HT2 receptor agonist (–)-DOM in animals.
At the time, the narcotic effects of chloral hydrate were owed to a hypothetical metabolic pathway to chloroform in "alkaline blood".
The Silver Bucket (1953), The Mechanical Womb (1955), The Last Days of Sodom (1955), novels co-written with Orton, all unpublished and now lost.
1-Butanol occurs naturally as a minor product of the ethanol fermentation of sugars and other saccharides and is present in many foods and drinks.
However, given oleamide's relatively low affinity for CB-1 and uncertainty about the concentration and biological role of oleamide in-vivo, it has been argued that it is premature to classify oleamide as an endocannabinoid.
In Germany, phenibut is not approved as a drug and, as a food supplement, is controlled under the German New Psychoactive Substances Act.
Early trips to Hollywood Boyer was first brought to Hollywood by MGM who wanted him to play the Chester Morris part in a French version of The Big House (1930), Révolte dans la prison (1931).
It was previously used for sedation in medical procedures such as surgery, orthopedics and gynecology, although it is no longer in clinical use.
Indiplon was originally scheduled for release in 2007, when Sanofi-Aventis' popular hypnotic zolpidem lost its patent rights in the United States and thus became available as a much less expensive generic.
ORG-20599 is a synthetic neuroactive steroid, with sedative effects resulting from its action as a GABAA receptor positive allosteric modulator and, at higher concentrations, agonist.
In September 1927 the press described Sergeant Atherton and Chief Petty Officer Bill Dodson as the Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig of air stage parachute battle.
Preparation 1-Pentanol is prepared from 1-butene by hydroformylation followed by hydrogenation of the resulting pentanal.
Methitural (INN; Neraval, Thiogenal), or methitural sodium, also known as methioturiate, is a barbiturate derivative which was marketed in the 1950s in Europe (in Germany and Italy) as an ultra-short-acting intravenous anesthetic.
In the United States: Doxylamine succinate is the active ingredient in many over-the-counter sleep aids branded under various names.
The publicity stunt placed Monroe on international front pages, and it also marked the end of her marriage to DiMaggio.
It is an active metabolite of phenazepam, as well as the active metabolite of the benzodiazepine prodrug cinazepam.
γ-Hydroxyvaleric acid (GHV), also known as 4-methyl-GHB, is a designer drug related to γ-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB).
Tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (abbreviated as THDOC; 3α,21-dihydroxy-5α-pregnan-20-one), also referred to as allotetrahydrocorticosterone, is an endogenous neurosteroid.
But because no one was there, he was dead, and circumstances were a little odd, suspicious, they radioed ...
In randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trials, the 10 and 30 mg doses increased sleep time and reduced sleep latency.
Glycosides The unicellular alga Euglena gracilis converts exogenous tryptophol to two major metabolites: tryptophol galactoside and an unknown compound (a tryptophol ester), and to minor amounts of indole-3-acetic acid, tryptophol acetate, and tryptophol glucoside.
The charges against Mazza were dropped after he contended that he had provided the prescriptions in good faith to the baseball players at their request.
Boyer would prefer a program in which he could develop a permanent characterization." Boyer would later star in his own radio show entitled Presenting Charles Boyer during 1950 over NBC.
The ethylamide chain of these ligands has been thought having a bioactive conformation with said chain projecting outside of the indole plane and it was demonstrated by testing rigidified analogues.
These drugs often included picrotoxin, amiphenazole (Daptazile), bemegride (Megimide), and methamphetamine sulfate (Methedrine) in dosages sometimes exceeding 250 mg over the first 24-hour period of being admitted into an intensive care unit (ICU).
In animal studies it was found to have low toxicity, although in rats evidence of pulmonary phospholipidosis occurred with pulmonary foam cells developing with long-term use of very high doses.
Unlike diazepam and other benzodiazepines, it does not suppress breathing at therapeutic doses and so is safer when no resuscitation facilities exist or when the patient's breathing is already compromised.
Metabolism Melatonin is metabolized in the liver by cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP1A2 to 6-hydroxymelatonin.
Analytical reagents Violuric acid and many of its derivatives, such as thiovioluric acid, 1,3-dimethylvioluric acid, and diphenylthiovioluric acid, have historically been used as analytical reagents for spectrophotometric determination and titration of various metals and metal-ions.
Paraldehyde was the last injection given to Edith Alice Morrell in 1950 by the suspected serial killer John Bodkin Adams.
United States Neither Amanita muscaria nor muscimol is considered a controlled substance by the Federal government of the United States.
Research Daprodustat is in phase III clinical trials for the treatment of anemia caused by chronic kidney disease.
Mental cravings for barbiturates can last for months or years in some cases and counselling/support groups are highly encouraged by addiction specialists.
6-Hydroxymelatonin is produced as a result of the enzymatic conversion of melatonin through hydroxylation.
Corvalol was produced by Kyiv Chemical and Pharmaceutical Plant in Kyiv, Ukraine in 1960–1991, and by its successor, the Joint Stock Company "Farmak", from 1991 onward.
In a less serious vein she published Peep at Politicians, a collection of humorous pen-portraits of parliamentary colleagues and opponents.
A Swiss pharmacist reported in 2022 that the dose for assisted suicide had been raised to 15 grams because with lower doses death was preceded by a coma of up to 10 hours in some cases.
Amobarbital was manufactured by Eli Lilly and Company in the United States under the brand name Amytal in bright blue bullet shaped capsules (known as Pulvules) or pink tablets (known as Diskets) containing 50, 100, or 200 milligrams of the drug.
In 2016 the same museum purchased at auction The Cat Screen, a four-panel described as "an important part of 1960s cultural history as well as an engaging piece of art work", for £8,000.
The GABAA receptor is an inhibitory channel that decreases neuronal activity, and barbiturates enhance the inhibitory action of the GABAA receptor.
Animal studies show that repeated alcohol withdrawals are associated with a significantly impaired ability to learn new information.
De Saulles had previously been engaged to the heiresses Mary Elsie Moore (later Princess Torlonia) and Eleanor Granville Brown.
Embutramide is used for euthanasia of a range of different animals, mainly small animals kept as pets rather than large farm animals.
For example, long-acting benzodiazepines have problems of drug accumulation especially in the elderly or those with liver disease, and shorter-acting benzodiazepines have a higher risk of more severe withdrawal symptoms.
On December 10, four days before her death, Vélez announced she had ended the engagement and kicked Ramond out of her home.
The actual manufacturer of Seconal subsequent to the time Eli Lilly manufactured the drug was Ohm Pharmaceuticals, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ranbaxy.
Cinolazepam is mainly used in Romania and Slovakia; it not approved for sale in the United States or Canada.
The drug was widely abused beginning in the late 1930s, and it is sometimes known as "yellow jackets" due to the yellow color of Nembutal-branded capsules.
Reaction with hydroxylamine produces the oxime, (5), which is reduced with lithium aluminium hydride to give the amine (6).
It is not a benzodiazepine or Z-drug and does not interact with GABA receptors, instead having a distinct mechanism of action.
As of June 2021, vornorexant is in phase 2 clinical trials for insomnia and phase 1 trials for sleep apnea.
Toxicity Mechanism of actions The biological effects of hexobarbital depend primarily on its ability to penetrate the central nervous system.
Trazodone is usually administered multiple times per day, but once-daily administration may be similarly effective.
Biodegradation In Cucumis sativus (cucumber), the enzymes indole-3-acetaldehyde reductase (NADH) and indole-3-acetaldehyde reductase (NADPH) use tryptophol to form (indol-3-yl)acetaldehyde.
Chlorobutanol acts as a preservative, sedative, hypnotic, and weak local anesthetic similar in nature to chloral hydrate; it also has antibacterial and antifungal properties.
Chemistry Amobarbital (5-ethyl-5-isoamylbarbituric acid), like all barbiturates, is synthesized by reacting malonic acid derivatives with urea derivatives.
Botany and mycology Hoyer's mounting medium Chloral hydrate is also an ingredient used for Hoyer's solution, a mounting medium for microscopic observation of diverse plant types such as bryophytes, ferns, seeds, and small arthropods (especially mites).
In a placebo controlled phase 2 trial with 351 subjects, eplivanserin reduced the sleep latency by 39 minutes (versus 26 minutes under placebo).
Flurazepam and other benzodiazepines such as fosazepam, and nitrazepam lost some of their effect after seven days administration in psychogeriatric patients.
Indications Methohexital is primarily used to induce anesthesia, and is generally provided as a sodium salt (e.g., methohexital sodium).
It was a prescription drug available in Poland from the 1950s to the 1990s under trade name Ipronal.
They have more variety than emoticons and have a basis from internet "reaction face" culture due to their ability to portray body language with a facial reaction.
Third-party software is available to generate identicons for the purposes of identifying eBay sellers.
For example, in the United Kingdom, where the age of consent is 16, the term is used to refer to those younger than 16, whereas in some parts of the United States, where the age of consent is 18, the term would refer to those aged under 18.
The entire system, the client libraries, the messaging format known as JSON and the server, became the State Application Framework, parts of which were sold and used by Sun Microsystems, Amazon.com, EDS and Volkswagen.
From the media Andy Chalk of PC Gamer described Twitch's protection against harassment as insufficient, while Nick D'Orazio of InvenGlobal claimed that the regular PogChamp face changes may have "inadvertently [opened] up a whole new problem that sounds like a PR nightmare".
Later IBM colour graphics terminals were microprocessor driven and would not have produced flashing streaks.
Linguist Ewelina Prażmo, writing in Topics in Linguistics, traced the morphological path of the suffix from the verb to maximize through clipping (to max), spelling modification (to maxx), and finally reanalysis as a derivational affix (-maxx) distinct in meaning from its parent word.
A prerequisite to using SMS language is the knowledge of spelling, so use of SMS language does not necessarily imply low literacy.
History The emoticon uwu is known to date back as far as April 11, 2000, when it was used by furry artist Ghislain Deslierres in a post on the furry art site VCL (Vixen Controlled Library).
The same week Musk announced Twitter's new freedom of speech policy, he tweeted a poll to ask whether to bring back Trump into the platform.
Soon, this becomes a habit in writing text in general, and improved with mixing English and Indonesian in one sentence.
On April 14, 2010, on a Filipino Tumblr page, a post about vice presidential candidate Jejomar Binay indicated that Binay was the Jejemon's preferred vice presidential candidate, complete with a fake poster with him called "Makki Autors".
Femboy can be used as both a sexual and non-sexual term; it does not denote a specific sexual orientation or gender role.
The additional cognitive effort promotes information processing which in turn allows individual learning to occur.
Reception Multiple news outlets, such as Business Insider, have attributed the meme to the wider phenomenon of brain rot—the spread of digital media considered to be of poor quality.
Crowdfixing Crowdfixing promotes the idea of public spaces as belonging to the local community, instead of areas merely administered and owned by the state.
Paste described the mourning process, which takes the form of a quick time event, as terrifically funny with the potential to catch on as a viral meme.
California, the Supreme Court of the United States established a test to determine whether content falls under the category of unprotected obscenity.
X's rule page considers posts "spam" once a user displays multiple posts with unrelated hashtags to a certain topic, or continues to post multiple posts of the same content in one account.
A copycat crime wave ensued occasioning serious assaults occasioning actual bodily harm and violent deaths.
IBM decided to program them to re-create the "green lightning", since the bug had become a feature – a phenomenon known as a misbug.
The word is often used to call out nationalists who are overly patriotic and attract negative attention towards Korea.
Characteristics A Marites is someone who pays close attention to what is happening around them, especially other people's business.
A 2012 study by researchers at the University of Wisconsin–Madison notes that "...the internet could be a crucial tool in increasing the general public's level of science literacy.
Variation by a factor of six in inspection speed led to variation of less than a factor of two in inspection accuracy.
However, over the course of the show's run, Flanders was simplified into a religious fundamentalist whose Christianity was his primary defining characteristic.
Internet users then began to ridicule and parody the quote and question the program's credibility, believing that it would be unlikely for a person of that age to find a web page to be both erotic and violent at the same time.
The Laugh-Out-Loud Cats comics are presented by Adam Koford as having been produced originally by "A.
0–9 A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z See also Acronym Internet slang List of file formats List of information technology initialisms References "Computing Acronyms and Abbreviations".
One of the things that could go wrong would be people blaming us for things that people said on The Well.
By API type Mashups can also be categorized by the basic API type they use but any of these can be combined with each other or embedded into other applications.
The sites favor mainstream content directly by steering users towards it and indirectly by disadvantaging small producers who cannot afford strong anti-piracy measures, bringing into doubt the ability of the rule being able to keep up with the market.
Gyatt ( ) is a term from African-American Vernacular English originally used in exclamation, such as "gyatt damn".
1975 to 1983 The Jargon File (referred to here as "Jargon-1" or "the File") was made by Raphael Finkel at Stanford in 1975.
Polite usages would mention where one has looked when asking a question, and to provide an exact location or link where exactly to RTFM.
So it was not unusual for someone which opposes such subcultures to also develop a distaste for miguxês.
In February 2017, Google-founded technology incubator Jigsaw unveiled a tool based on artificial intelligence, called Perspective API, to identify toxic comments in online forums.
Prevention Since the BBS era of the 1980s and early 1990s, many systems have implemented a ratio policy, which requires the upload of a certain amount for every amount downloaded.
'The blinking twelve problem' thus refers to any situation in which features or functions of a program go unused for reasons that the designers never anticipated, largely because developers were unable to anticipate the level of understanding the users would have of the technology.
YOYOW is an acronym for a phrase coined by Stewart Brand when he launched The WELL, short for "You Own Your Own Words".
Writing zeros to a degraded NAND device can revive the storage to close to new condition for further use.
During one episode Colbert's character, also named Stephen Colbert, states, Last night, as I was surfing the Internets … literally: My backyard wave pool has Wi-Fi … Keith Olbermann similarly made use of the term during his Oddball segment whenever viral videos are covered.
"Netflix and chill" is an Internet slang term used as a euphemism for sexual activity, either as part of a romantic partnership, as casual sex, or as a groupie invitation.
The categories are typically understood as: Must have Requirements labelled as Must have are critical to the current delivery timebox in order for it to be a success.
social justice protests, K-pop fans flooded opposition hashtags with fancams, disrupting surveillance efforts.
In September 2020, users of Reddit created a pledge called "No Simp September", similar to No Nut November (a month-long abstention from masturbation).
ISBN 978-1-68571-036-1.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Goldman, Eric (2004).
The point has been made." Reception Upon the release of Advanced Warfare in November 2014, many critics and players mocked the cutscene for its forced or awkward element of interactivity that seemed out of place at a memorial service.
Since its first recorded, nonsexual use in a tweet posted in 2009, the phrase has gained popularity within the Twitter community and other social media sites like Facebook and Vine.
This form of tagging is used on microblogging and social networking services such as Twitter, Facebook, Google+, VK and Instagram.
For example, the password "Butterfly" could be munged in the following ways: The substitutions can be anything the user finds easy to remember, such as: See also Leet Password References External links Jargon File entry for munge
The term could be used as a random interjection as-well, and was memed in other contexts such as the Japanese word for good morning.
A manufactured controversy is a contrived disagreement, typically motivated by profit or ideology, designed to create public confusion concerning an issue about which there is no substantial academic dispute.
The main criticism being the replacement of face-to-face communication by a virtual medium and the "instant" answers received to the questions.
Actress Miriam Margolyes has claimed that she was the first to unintentionally say the word on the quiz show University Challenge in 1963; representing Newnham College, Cambridge.
The use of the term standardizes and generalizes the members of a dispossessed social class, and can lead young people -both men and women- to low self-esteem and the internalization of the idea that they have no chance of improving their situation.
Latto told Billboard that in the lyrics she took the "masculine, trendy 'big dick energy' quote" from social media and made it a concept that all genders can have and take it deeper than just a sexual aspect." Latto added, "I wanted it to be empowering.
Other problems include longer compile times and the risk that programmers may accidentally link working code into the defunct code, inadvertently resurrecting it.
In many cases, doing so provides an answer in less time than it takes to ask someone else the question.
For instance, in 2017, Ted Cruz's account liked a tweet with a two-minute porn video about a day after it was posted.
We ran some other studies to show that sometimes they become even so motivated they're likely to engage in unethical behavior to win.
Causes This deterioration can be caused by a variety of factors that impact the reliability and integrity of digital information, including physical factors, software errors, security breaches, human error, obsolete technology, and unauthorized access incidents.
A critique partner is a trained writer who test reads from the perspective of an author, while a beta reader is a trained reader, test reading from the perspective of a typical reader.
One example of crowd-fixing is community centers to repair vehicles and military equipment during the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Most Chinese media intentionally ignored the role CCTV played in the report, focusing more on the violation of the girl's privacy.
While LOL originally meant "laughing out loud," modern usage is different, and it is commonly used for irony, as an indicator of second meanings, and as a way to soften statements.
Reaction On the evening of October 9, 2004, the day following the Bush/Kerry debate, Saturday Night Live parodied Bush with Will Forte's impression of George W.
Standards for unit symbols and prefixes Unit symbol The ISQ symbols for the bit and byte are bit and B, respectively.
With ever-growing disk capacities, file sizes, and increases in the amount of data stored on a disk, the likelihood of the occurrence of data decay and other forms of uncorrected and undetected data corruption increases.
The experiment had the team transfer a 700 MB file via three delivery methods to determine which was the fastest; A carrier pigeon with a microSD card, a car carrying a USB Stick, or a Telstra ADSL line.
O'Reilly Media's book covers on programming and technology have been parodied online using the term O RLY?, first popularised by a meme generator by Ben Halpern.
Several people have written stories about BOFHs, but only those by Simon Travaglia are considered canonical.
Such phrases also may be taken out of context and displayed on a directory, search result page, bookmark list, etc.
"Ceiling Cat" and the corresponding "Basement Cat" (a black cat who lives in the basement) are said to represent good and evil in the lolcat universe, and in some cases God and Satan, as in the LOLCat Bible Translation Project.
In March 2005's issue of .net magazine, a contest was created among five professional web developers to make their site the number-one site for the made-up phrase "crystalline incandescence".
Drentea & Moren-Cross (2005) write that using DH and DD help stressed-out women maintain their "good mother" social role by softening complaints about their families.
This directly facilitated the creation of sexually charged bronyspeak terms like clopping and drove the rapid proliferation of explicit fan content.
Documentation Server-side web APIs are interfaces for the outside world to interact with the business logic.
On one breast cancer forum, where the majority of users are women aged 40 to 60, a statistical analysis of posts shows that typing out "husband" is associated with short-time members, while "my DD" (rather than "daughter") is associated with long-time members.
The phenomenon is named after the website Tumblr, from which it originated, although Tumblr Sexymen have also gained popularity on other social media platforms such as Twitter and TikTok.
The Washington Post described /b/ as "an unfathomable grab-bag of the random, the gross and the downright bizarre".
Small dick energy In December 2022, Andrew Tate addressed the environmentalist Greta Thunberg in a tweet extolling his carbon-emitting automobiles and asked for her email address to give her more information.
In the 1980s, the term was imported into Unix culture due to the migration of operating system developers and users from TENEX/TOPS-20 to Unix.
Variants include the 1–9–90 rule (sometimes 90–9–1 principle or the 89:10:1 ratio), which states that in a collaborative website such as a wiki, 90% of the participants of a community only consume content, 9% of the participants change or update content, and 1% of the participants add content.
Gukppong (Korean: 국뽕) is a derogatory Korean word that is used to pejoratively describe a Southern Korean nationalist.
In this case, the "manual" is the World Wide Web, so one of several search engines such as Google could be used to look up the answer.
Involuntary movement of the receptive partner's orifice, such as twitching or tightening, also occurs in yaoi hole stories.
The term was coined in 1958 in the Tech Model Railroad Club at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
DLL hell can appear in many different ways, wherein affected programs may fail to run correctly, if at all.
ID-10-T error ID-Ten-T error (also seen as ID10T and ID107) is a masked jab at the user: when ID-Ten-T is spelled out it becomes ID10T ("IDIOT").
This is due to the wenis having a high amount of subcutaneous fat, relatively few pain receptors, and tough skin.
The public is invited to make online map improvements in their local area to improve coverage and to help disaster risk assessment and energy management.
Delulu in K-pop culture is also used in the shipping and stan cultures for fans who interpret any interaction between celebrities as proof of their dating or being in a relationship.
Tcharmil (sometimes Tcharmile or mesharmil in French or Spanish) is an expression in Moroccan dialect traditionally indicating a range of marinaded spicy food flavours for meat dishes which includes garlic, olive oil and parsley.
While the Os are usually in lower-case to indicate that they do not stand for anything, the all-capitals MOSCOW is also used.
By 2023, Dazed magazine stated that the FBI had deemed the term "based and redpilled" as connected to violent alt-right extremism online.
In May 2015, after a 7.9 earthquake in Nepal, online volunteers expanded the map of Nepal for two weeks.
The film also introduces the mutant Binary, an alternate version of Maria Rambeau, portrayed by Lashana Lynch.
In computer science, syntactic noise is syntax within a programming language that makes the programming language more difficult to read and understand for humans and it is considered a code smell.
Aleksic noted that it was women on TikTok's #GirlTok who first brought looksmaxxing concepts to the platform, unknowingly repurposing incel vocabulary from rate-me subreddits.
The term is an allusion on military nomenclature, "Mark I" being the first version of a military vehicle or weapon.
He had previously created a spoof version of the Ask Jeeves web search engine while studying at Cal Poly but closed the website after he received an infringement letter.
Lack of rationale around how to rank competing requirements: why something is must rather than should.
Cheaper and/or lower quality power supplies do not follow the ATX specification of a separate monitoring circuit; they instead wire the power good output to one of the 5 V lines.
Sales of VR headsets such as the Valve Index increased dramatically after its announcement, suggesting users bought the product specifically for the game.
BIFF was created as and taken up as a satire of a partly amusing, partly annoying, mostly unwelcome intrusion into a then fairly rarefied community.
Public projects often have a chainik mailing list to keep the chainiks out the developers' and experienced users' discussions.
History In 2009, in Atlanta, the capital of the US state of Georgia, United States, about 200 volunteers walked around the city with GPS-enabled devices and expanded OpenStreetMap.
This enables them to read works in the current context, with regard to both world affairs and the target market that the work is aimed at.
Dickson of The Daily Dot wrote that clop enthusiasts were "black sheep in the community" of bronies, most of whom feared that cloppers would give the fandom a bad name.
Soon, the term would spread beyond the Black Twitter community, becoming an Internet meme and gaining the attention of news websites such as The Guardian and the Daily Mirror.
It meant that you're responsible for your own words, and if you libel somebody they sue you, not us.
By 2009, the site had listed around 4 million entries and received about 2,000 new submissions per day.
In response to the event, Undertale creator Toby Fox wrote a fictional account which featured imagined details of Sans's victory.
In 2023, an analyst from the Southern Poverty Law Center noted the term fren has been adopted as a deliberately "innocuous" and "baby talk" self-description by the far-right online, with the word being used as a backronym for "far-right ethnonationalist".
Etymology and origins Game theory and gaming The concept of maximizing a single variable at the expense of others has roots in minimax theory, developed in 1940s academic game theory.
A keysmash (alternatively key smash, key mash or keyboard smash) is internet slang for the typing out of a random sequence of letters on a computer keyboard or touchscreen, often to express intense emotion.
Modern hard drives use Giant magnetoresistance and have a higher magnetic lifespan on the order of decades.
See also Algorithmic bias Auditory neuropathy spectrum disorder Computer says no Data processing inequality FINO Model collapse No free lunch theorem Standard error Undefined behavior == References ==
In software development, small matter of programming (SMOP) or simple matter of programming is a phrase used to ironically indicate that a suggested feature or design change would require a great deal of effort.
It shows how those people talk and communicate with each other in their work setting and can vary with different language cultures in different countries.
During the early days of internet gaming, a new side of b1ff took a significant rise, when scripts edited the content of instant chat conversations.
See also Free-rider problem LeechModem Lurker Parasitism (social offense) Tragedy of the commons References Leech - Meaning
On social media, a wife guy is a man whose fame or public persona is substantially tied to content about his wife.
Another popular format is "[Adjective] cat is [adjective/noun]." Recurring characters "Ceiling Cat" is a character spawned by the meme.
veetit), derived from the Finnish name Veeti, has similarly been used to refer to a new generation of teenage boys.
Indeed, even though SMS language exists in the format of written text, it closely resembles normal speech in that it does not have a complicated structure and that its meaning is greatly contextualised.
After the meaning of these became widely familiar, 10100111001 came to be used in its place, because it is the binary form of 1337 decimal, making it more of a puzzle to interpret.
"root" is the conventional name of the user who has all rights or permissions (to all files and programs) in all modes (single- or multi-user).
See also I'm not a scientist, a political phrase Jargon File, a glossary of computer programmer slang References External links IANAL at The Jargon File (catb.org)
The term is often used pejoratively to describe those who found fame or success which critics believe was unearned or undeserved.
Throughout 2009, members of the Unicode Consortium and national standardization bodies of various countries gave feedback and proposed changes to the international standardization of the emoji.
has been referenced in various video games, including World of Warcraft in which the auctioneer characters O’Reely and Yarly are a reference to "O RLY?" and "YA RLY!", respectively.
(Not really.) History The original "O RLY?" snowy owl image macro is based on a photo taken by nature photographer John White, which he posted to the newsgroup alt.binaries.pictures.animals in 2001.
For example, games for a Game Boy (typically distributed as a cartridge), generally run natively on a Game Boy which is relatively incompatible with other computer platforms.
Implementations Hypertext HTML itself is hypermedia, with the <form>...</form> element in control of HTTP requests to links.
Some critics also emerged, expressing discontent about the Internet outcry and many parodies related to the report, some using her real name, as stated by a letter written by an individual claiming to be the girl's father.
In particular, it may refer to a new user of computers, and often concerns Internet activity, such as online gaming or Linux use.
According to director Robert Altman, the first time the word fuck was used in a major American studio film was in 1970's M*A*S*H, spoken by Painless during the football match at the end of the film.
Other animals Many other animals are referred to differently in DoggoLingo: for example, one might refer to a snake as a snek, nope rope, or danger noodle, a human as a hooman and a bird as a birb.
TwT Another variant, TwT, is often used to symbolize crying, with each T representing a closed eye with tears streaming down.
Search engines can then index them to make relevant materials related to the event searchable in a uniform way.
/ / / / \ \ / /___ / /\ \ } /______/ /______//_/ * + /_/ *, ` ,/_/ /_/ \_\ /______//_/ \_\ } } FEETUR1NG THE GRATE B1FF1NSK1 AS C4PTA1N B1FF!!!!!!
Software reset A software reset (or soft reset) is initiated by the software, for example, Control-Alt-Delete key combination have been pressed, or execute restart in Microsoft Windows.
Common alternatives In conversation or writing, reference to or use of the word fuck may be replaced by any of many alternative words or phrases, including the F-word or the F-bomb (a play on A-bomb and H-bomb), or simply, eff or f (as in What the eff/F or You effing/f'ing fool).
Jezebel's Jia Tolentino argued that the articles were instead "actually in service of an idea" and that based on Herrman's definition of hot take, ideas were positive alternatives to hot takes.
phishing The act of attempting to obtain private or sensitive information such as user names, passwords and credit card information through the use of fake emails from trustworthy sites.
Term can also apply to novice mountaineers, backpackers, drivers, etc., with such usage predating the usage in computing context.
Many folk etymologies exist, but the written record is clear: the term appears widely in popular print use only from 1993, particularly used both in dancehalls and at sporting events, and is credited to the songs.
The findings revealed significant disparities: women and younger participants (aged 30 or younger) were more inclined to illustrate traditional smiley faces, characterized by simple designs that primarily include eyes and a mouth, often excluding additional features such as noses or outlines.
In an interview, Sonic the Hedgehog co-star James Marsden was asked a question about the word, in which he erroneously guessed that it was Doctor Robotnik's original catchphrase.
This forces Comet developers to implement several complex streaming transports, switching between them depending on the browser.
In 2014, late night show celebrity Conan O'Brien reviewed Advanced Warfare on a "Clueless Gamer" episode and criticized the scene.
A client does not need to understand every media type and communication mechanism offered by the server.
In slang form, owned can be an adjective (He is owned), owning can be a verb (He is totally owning that guy.), and ownage can be a noun.
(For example, deleting them, knowing they are stored in the project's source control) See also Anti-pattern Vintage amateur radio Legacy system References External links Origin of Ham Speak BoatAnchor Manual Archive
Social tagging is the application of tags in an open online environment where the tags of other users are available to others.
QWERTY keysmashes tend to be made up of letters and characters from what is referred to as the keyboard's home row, which includes the letters a, s, d, f, g, h, j, k, l as well as two special characters, the semicolon (;) and apostrophe (').
Web page uses of <meta name="ICBM" content="12.345, 67.890"> specify the same location as a geo:12.345,67.890 URI.
This is no longer the case and most (if not all) of the sites with Greek content are written in native Greek.
Python 3.8 introduced assignment expressions, but uses the walrus operator := instead of a regular equal sign (=) to avoid bugs which simply confuse == with =.
Roman Urdu refers to the romanised use of Urdu, where the Urdu language is written using the English alphabet.
Puerto Rican rapper Iann Dior named his debut studio album, Industry Plant (2020), after his being called an industry plant due to his quick rise to fame.
They are used as units of measurement for expressing data transfer rate, the average number of bits (bit rate), characters or symbols (symbol rate), or data blocks per unit time passing through a communication link in a data-transmission system.
"Bidirectional-streams Over Synchronous HTTP (BOSH)" and "XMPP over BOSH" are stable standards of the XMPP Standards Foundation.
In 2009, Newgrounds described a security vulnerability in ActiveX as leaving Windows XP and Windows 2003 Server users open to a "Browse-And-Get-Owned" attack.
For example, The Economist has dubbed the mid- to late-2000s focus on Web companies as "Bubble 2.0".
In 2009, a second book was published by Abrams ComicArts: The Laugh-Out-Loud Cats Sell Out, with an introduction by comedian John Hodgman.
Under the Radar's Andy Von Pip also wrote that the term was "a crass and often deeply misogynistic attempt to undermine [the] credibility and creativity" of female artists.
In use, one may say plugpoint to indicate a specific place in an API, or in the API of a framework designed to have software components "plugged" into it.
Software archaeology or source code archeology is the study of poorly documented or undocumented legacy software implementations, as part of software maintenance.
Kludge – a neologism developed near this time with a similar meaning Munged password (referring to a slightly different process) Data wrangling References External links Jargon File entry Mung and munge at FOLDOC Email address munging is considered harmful
Positive impacts Twitter bombing/spamming can provide exposure to current events that are not being exposed enough from mainstream media.
Variations In 1999, the IEC published Amendment 2 to "IEC 60027-2: Letter symbols to be used in electrical technology – Part 2: Telecommunications and electronics".
— Ed." The editor's use of the term generated some reader interest, and in February 1957, CQ published a follow-up story that included photos.
It is believed that the second syllable of the word charisma was taken from it to create the word rizz, though this belief is not universal.
Replying to Grande, a Twitter user tweeted that "Pete Davidson is 6'3 [1.91 m] with dark circles, exudes big dick energy, looks evil but apparently is an angel, and loves his girl publicly." The phrase was immediately picked up by the community.
It has been used as an argument against making sequels for a work and described as "a lesson for other shows" whose characters have not gone through the process.
For example, addresses in 49.0.0.0/8 were not allocated prior to August 2010, but are now used by APNIC.
If you sit down a group of average users with your program and ask them all to complete this task, then the more usable your program is, the higher the percentage of users that will be able to successfully create a web photo album.
Navy recruit students attending Basic Electricity and Electronics school by more senior students, a requisite course prior to enrollment in the A-school course at Naval Air Technical Training Center, Millington, Tennessee.
Conversely, Karsten Geis of Empirica Capital wrote in 2014 that e-lancing would be a primary employer of the future, and that normal jobs will tend to disappear.
For example, "Moms" advisors of the Walt Disney World are responsible for offering suggestions and replying to questions about the family trips at Walt Disney World.
The New Yorker also points to post-women’s liberation literary fiction and film titles such as The Time Traveler's Wife and The Zookeeper’s Wife as extending the trope, and argues that “wife guy” dynamics can erase the wife’s own subjectivity.
The origin of the term is unknown, with many people believing it to originate in Internet chat rooms.
During the mid-to late 2000s, Lil B, reappropriated the pejorative as a term of endearment, using it to describe a positive and bold lifestyle.
The editor added this reply: "The only conversion we seem to have on the files here at CQ calls for 100 feet of 1 inch Manila line, one end of which is to be tied securely around the MK II Transceiver.
DH appears in conversations about family, sexuality and relationships within Muslim, LDS, and Jewish online communities.
A counterargument used by forum users is that a fair number of users live abroad and access the Internet from computers they don't own (university, internet cafes, etc.).
In May 2019, the IMS Security Framework and Learning Tools Interoperability version 1.3 were published based on OAuth2, OpenID Connect, and JWT.
The first two streamers featured as PogChamp emotes were UnRooolie and UmiNoKaiju, who were Twitch Ambassadors in 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Prior to more recent social media influencers on Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube, during the times of his earliest videos in the 2010s, travel content was largely limited to blogs.
Origin "Beta reader" is an English term originally borrowed from the information technology and software industry, where beta testers use an unreleased product to accomplish a real task, partly to identify problems in the product.
Generally, a hard reset is initiated by pressing a dedicated reset button On some systems (e.g, the PlayStation 2 video game console), pressing and releasing the power button initiates a hard reset, and holding the button turns the system off.
More recently the term applies to status lights of modern network hardware (modems, network hubs, etc.).
A syntax for use within HTML is to use the rel-tag microformat which uses the rel attribute with value "tag" (i.e., rel="tag") to indicate that the linked-to page acts as a tag for the current context.
This was commonly seen in the late 1990s as people realized that their software only had room for a 2 digit year entry; this led to the sudden updating of tremendous quantities of brittle software before the year 2000.
Reply guys are often men, often with few followers of their own, and tend to respond to posts by celebrities, those with large follower bases, or women.
Business Commercial Many companies and organizations rely heavily on their Web API infrastructure to serve their core business clients.
Automated: Software can be scheduled to run at a certain time and date; therefore, it is possible to schedule a reboot.
A 4-layer HDI microvia PCB is equivalent in quality to an 8-layer through-hole PCB, so HDI technology can reduce costs.
The schematic editor includes basic component placement and circuit design as well as advanced multi-channel design and hierarchical schematics.
In this capacity, in particular, he played a decisive role in introduction of colour television in the Soviet Union.
An analog synthesizer is a synthesizer that uses analog circuits and analog computer techniques to generate sound electronically.
The load line shows how the collector load resistor (RL) constrains the circuit voltage and current.
In telecommunications, distortion-limited operation is the condition prevailing when distortion of a received signal, rather than its attenuated amplitude (or power), limits performance under stated operational conditions and limits.
Systems for bringing underground water to buildings include wind and solar driven pumps or hand pumps.
In the laboratory, carbon dioxide is sometimes used to prepare carboxylic acids in a process known as carboxylation.
In common waveforms If the waveform is a pure sine wave, the relationships between amplitudes (peak-to-peak, peak) and RMS are fixed and known, as they are for any continuous periodic wave.
However, similar to the stabilizability condition above, if a state cannot be observed it might still be detectable.
Hughes, Timothy H.; Morelli, Alessandro; Smith, Malcolm C., "Electrical network synthesis: A survey of recent work", pp.
Another notable example of double tracking can be seen in the 1991 hit album Nevermind, where producer Butch Vig would often double the vocals of lead singer Kurt Cobain and several electric guitars to create a "sound big enough" as Vig once put it in an interview.
The MIT Radiation Laboratory Series is a 28-volume collection of technical books on microwave electronics and radar technology, published by McGraw-Hill between 1947 and 1951.
A grounding transformer or earthing transformer is a type of auxiliary transformer used in three-phase electric power systems to provide a ground path to either an ungrounded wye or a delta-connected system.
However, for purely-reactive impedances (which are purely-susceptive admittances), the susceptance is equal to the negative reciprocal of the reactance, except when either is zero.
He is involved in the development of research agendas and innovation strategies for socio-economic development with a focus on emerging economies.
Rice Paper Prize in the Field of Communication Theory, 2004 National Science Foundation CAREER Award, 2001 == References ==
Newspapers In February 2006, the Flemish daily De Tijd distributed an electronic version of the paper to select subscribers in a limited marketing study, using a pre-release version of the iRex iLiad.
In power plant, utilization varies according to the demand on the plant from the electricity market.
Keystone wall plates are made to work with many different types of cabling solutions, including coaxial, twisted pair, HDMI, optical fiber, etc.
The NPL network was the first computer network to implement packet switching and the first to use high-speed links.
Beyond the initial increase in distortion, lower bit rate codecs also achieve their lower bit rates by using more complex algorithms that make certain assumptions, such as those about the media and the packet loss rate.
Harmonization Applications may use these standards to improve interoperability and data exchange by transforming SCL models into CIM models.
The McIntosh MR78 (1972) is known as one of the first FM tuners precise enough to tune into a weaker station broadcast on the same frequency as another stronger signal.
Padma Sundar was inspired to go to Japan for higher studies after meeting with Japanese Buddhist monk and traveler Ekai Kawaguchi in Kathmandu.
In 1936 the first experimental high voltage direct current (HVDC) line using mercury arc valves was built between Schenectady and Mechanicville, New York.
More than half of power in Canada is hydroelectricity, and mains electricity is often referred to as "hydro" in some regions of the country.
On 24 October 1911, he received an honorary doctorate from the TH Darmstadt, whose Dolivo building bears his name today.
Swiss OC Oerlikon divested its solar division that produced a-Si/μc-Si tandem cells to Tokyo Electron Limited.
Until the creation of the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System (TDRSS), the Space Shuttle endured a 30-minute blackout.
The motor, the world's smallest electric motor, is just a nanometer (billionth of a meter) across (60 000 times smaller than the thickness of a human hair).
Design difficulty Analogue circuits are typically harder to design, requiring more skill than comparable digital systems to conceptualize.
The agreement between Sony and Panasonic to jointly develop the next generation optical media standard was first announced on 29 July 2013.
A hermetic seal, usually a liquid seal, is employed; a turbine oil at pressure higher than the hydrogen inside is typically used.
As a consequence, a high level of investment security lead to a soaring number of new photovoltaic installations that peaked in 2011, while investment costs in renewable technologies were brought down considerably.
For example, for a domestic UK 230 V, 60 A TN-S or USA 120 V/240 V supply, fault currents may be a few thousand amperes.
Working principle Like most pumps, a centrifugal pump converts rotational energy, often from a motor, to energy in a moving fluid.
The ripple is much reduced, nominally zero under open-circuit load conditions, but when current is being drawn depends on the resistance of the load and the value of the capacitors used.
Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in: Science Citation Index Expanded Scopus Inspec ProQuest databases EBSCO databases According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2018 impact factor of 0.650, and a 5 years impact factor of 0.639.
Although such devices may need to stay on continuously, more recent models have proven to be more efficient and can result in considerably lower home idle loads.
Montgomery (1947) Volume 12 – Microwave Antenna Theory and Design; Samuel Silver (1949) Volume 13 – Propagation of Short Radio Waves; Donald E.
In electrical installations All dimmers rely on heat conduction and convection to keep the electronic components cool.
So, a motor with K v = 3600 rpm / V = 377 rad / V·s {\displaystyle K_{\text{v}}=3600{\text{ rpm}}/{\text{V}}=377{\text{ rad}}/{\text{V·s}}} will generate 0.00265 N⋅m of torque per ampere of current, regardless of its size or other characteristics.
Holy Royal Arch Chapter Past Most Wise Sovereign, Kingston Rose Croix Chapter Past Grand Director of Ceremonies of the Grand Lodge of Scotland Past Master Mark Mason Past Priory Knights of Malta Past Worshipful Master St.
Henry Arthur Campbell MIEE (24 June 1873 to 6 June 1953) was a Jamaican electrical engineer and long-serving employee and Chief Engineer of the Jamaican public utility.
Through re-enactments, each episode focuses on the lives of two individuals (or groups) competing with each other in the same field of expertise, illustrating how some of the greatest inventions were made possible by competition between aspirants.
Time-domain reflectometers work by generating a signal and then sending that signal down the wireline and examining the reflected signal.
For example, the internal structure of an NPN bipolar transistor resembles two P-N junction diodes connected together by a common anode.
India Tata Motors manufactures Starbus EV, Ultra EV and Magna EV buses JBM PMI Mobility Switch Mobility Ashok Leyland Subsidiary is Makes large number Ev buses in india Olectra Oceania Australia Avass, Full electric city buses and touring coaches, manufactured in Australia.
She computed for George Campbell, who applied mathematical methods to the problems of long-distance electrical transmissions.
A Review, Part II: Filters and reactive, switching, and hybrid compensators”, Przegląd Elektrotechniczny, R96, No.
Determination of rate and direction of rotation The six states of rotation of the molecule can be determined by aligning the tip of the scanning electron microscope asymmetrically on the side of one of the lobes of the molecule during spectroscopy measurements.
This specifically covers the use of UUID as well as a basic or extended SMPTE UMID but can be extended to embed other data types into the AES3 stream by registering these with the AES so the standard can be updated to include these by following AES due process.
In order to test the login page, it is necessary to pass some sample input vectors { X 1 , X 2 , X 3 , .
The ICD supported devices within the PIC16C and PIC16F families, and supported full speed execution, or single step interactive debugging.
Holophonics is a binaural recording system created by Hugo Zuccarelli that is based on the claim that the human auditory system acts as an interferometer.
Positronic, a creator of domestic manufacturing jobs, produces electronic products that are being used in satellites, missiles, and other military equipment.
See also Electrical impedance Input impedance Nominal impedance Damping factor Voltage divider Early effect small-signal model Equivalent series resistance Power gain References Tocci, Ronald J.
It was found that coolant temperature increased by almost 20 °C (36 °F) during the first four hours, regardless of the initial temperature.
A fourth implementation, the vector network analyzer (VNA), can be considered a distinct instrument.
For all ports the voltages may be defined in terms of the Z-parameter matrix and the currents by the following matrix equation: V = Z I {\displaystyle V=ZI\,} where Z is an N × N matrix the elements of which can be indexed using conventional matrix notation.
Recognition Rosenberg was elected as an IEEE Fellow in 2011, "for contributions to resource management in wireless and satellite networks".
A keystone port is a hole in the wall plate which allows the insertion of a keystone module or other male or female cabling connectors.
An I–V curve that is nonmonotonic (having peaks and valleys) represents a device which has negative resistance.
The Quest for Power: From Prehistoric Times to the Present Day is a book on the history of engineering written by Hugh Pembroke Vowles and Margaret Winifred Vowles.
The reason that it is not available in Ogg Vorbis is that current encoders do not organize the code-stream to have progressive accuracy, thus peelers cannot tell which data is more or less important.
As the technology developed, with ever-faster switching speeds (increasing emissions) and lower circuit voltages (increasing susceptibility), EMC increasingly became a source of concern.
They are also inherently more flexible than their hardware equivalent since any number of send tracks can be created as needed.
A Review, Part I: Power Properties of Electrical Circuits and Systems”, Przegląd Elektrotechniczny, R95, No.
In some sources Oliver Heaviside is given credit for coining the term, or with introducing the concept under the name permittance.
One issue with reproducing speech is that the microphone used to pick up the sound of an individual's voice may also pick up unwanted sounds, such as the rustling of papers on a podium.
In order to address this, Cisco released LLQ to provide strict priority queuing for CBWFQ by enabling the use of a single, strict priority queue within CBWFQ at the class level.
When power plants were up and coming, engineering tasks needed to create these facilities mainly consisted of mechanical, civil, and electrical engineers.
It may take several cycles before the charge pump succeeds in fully charging CO but after steady state has been reached it is only necessary for CP to pump a small amount of charge equivalent to that being supplied to the load from CO.
They are members of a family of similar parameters used in electronic engineering, other examples being: S-parameters, Y-parameters, H-parameters, T-parameters or ABCD-parameters.
Unlike Boolean circuits, which behave deterministically, a random flip-flop behaves non-deterministically.
Immittance does not have an associated unit because it applies to both impedance, which is measured in ohms (Ω) or acoustic ohms, and admittance, which is commonly measured in siemens (S) and historically has also been measured in mhos (℧), the reciprocal of ohms.
Since the linear dimensions of an antenna scale with the wavelength λ {\displaystyle \lambda } , the cross sectional area of an antenna and thus the aperture scales with the square of wavelength λ 2 {\displaystyle \lambda ^{2}} .
Reduction Ground bounce may be reduced by placing a 10 to 30 ohm resistor in series to each of the switching outputs to limit the current flow during the gate switch.
If the constraints were still not met, it was necessary to reach further back in the flow and modify the chip logic and repeat the synthesis and placement steps.
If two more layers are consecutively stacked from bottom of core, you can have a 1-2 via, a 1-3 via and a through hole.
In Hawaii, curtailment reached 20% on the island of Maui in Hawaii in the second and third quarters of 2020.
A modern all-low-floor electric bus Van Hool's CX45E is based on the diesel-powered CX45, but uses a Proterra E2 drivetrain.
This obviously simple system had been used before, but only for low-powered locomotives with lightweight motors.
Electrical engineering In electronics, an immittance Smith chart can be created by overlaying both the impedance and admittance grids, which is useful for cascading series-connected with parallel-connected electric circuits.
Overview Pad cratering most often occurs during dynamic mechanical events such as mechanical shock or board flexure due to In-circuit test (ICT), board depaneling, or connector insertion.
Commercialization of LED technology in 1968–1970 caused a boom in optoelectronics, and by the end of the 1970s the industry developed all principal types of opto-isolators.
Disadvantages include high torque ripple (the difference between maximum and minimum torque during one revolution) when operated at low speed, and noise due to torque ripple.
For example, notebook processors usually consume less power than their desktop counterparts, at the expense of computer performance.
At this time most aircraft were constructed from cloth and wood, and rigid body airships were widely used.
More generally an analog computer uses one kind of physical quantity to represent the behavior of another physical system, or mathematical function.
The Voluntary Control Council for Interference by Information Technology Equipment or VCCI is the Japanese body governing RF emissions (i.e.
Further reading How To Install Drywall Rings for Keystone Wall Plates Video shows 3 most common drywall rings == References ==
A doubler using this Schottky diode will result in a voltage of 2.7 V, or at the output after the smoothing diode, 2.4 V.
The Bergeron diagram method, valid for both linear and non-linear models, evaluates the reflection's effects in an electric line.
Third-party SIP evaluation service is provided by HKSTP, so that IP integrators can know the quality of their desired SIP cores.
The kind of filtering required depends on the amplitude of the various harmonics of the ripple and the demands of the load.
The CMRR is a very important specification, as it indicates how much of the unwanted common-mode signal will appear in the output, typically a measurement of some quantity.
Modules would be inserted into a chassis and then wired together to produce a larger logic unit, like an adder.
Example processes Media The chemical reactions in photographic film and film stock involve analog processes, with camera as machinery.
Silicon shortage (2005–2008) In the early 2000s, prices for polysilicon, the raw material for conventional solar cells, were as low as $30 per kilogram and silicon manufacturers had no incentive to expand production.
It maintains a fixed compression size of either 2.28:1 or 4.57:1 and is designed for realtime playback.
Journals Magazines Other Communications and Networks, Journal of, by the Korean Institute of Communications Sciences (KICS) and technically cosponsored by the IEEE Communications Society See also Category:IEEE conferences, many with published proceedings.
High density interconnects (HDI) PCBs have tracks or vias with a width or diameter of under 152 micrometers.
It was set up by Wayne Bickerton as an extension of State Records, the label he had set up with Tony Waddington and John Fruin in 1975.
If the NILM is running remotely at a utility or by a third party, the homeowner may not know that their behavior is being monitored and recorded.
Upstairs there was a radio facility, which offered a studio and separate control room plus a lounge area.
Membership Working group membership includes experts in industry and academia with strong backgrounds in mathematical modeling, engineering, physics, economics and biological sciences.
Early life and education One of nine children, Edith Clarke was born in Howard County, Maryland to lawyer John Ridgely Clarke and Susan Dorsey Owings on February 10, 1883.
Combining three standards in one product makes tri-rated cable suitable for use in equipment that is required to meet both North American and British wiring regulations.
The hours of operation would then be 2800 hours, and the motor use factor for a base of 8760 hours per year would be 2800/8760 = 31.96%.
The European Broadcasting Union (EBU) specifies several nominal levels and resulting headroom for different applications.
See also Attack-time delay Receive-after-transmit time delay References This article incorporates public domain material from Federal Standard 1037C.
Other methods have limitations such as only being able to deal with two kinds of element in any single network.
Clock domain crossing verification (CDC check): similar to linting, but these checks/tools specialize in detecting and reporting potential issues like data loss, meta-stability due to use of multiple clock domains in the design.
By accepting the lowest bid the government commits to buy at that price per kWh for a fixed number of years, or up to a certain total amount of power.
Education and career Sellathurai has a bachelor's degree in engineering from the University of Peradeniya in Sri Lanka.
Market reform The business model behind the electric utility has changed over the years playing a vital role in shaping the electricity industry into what it is today; from generation, transmission, distribution, to the final local retailing.
The Archival Disc standard jointly developed by Sony and Panasonic used signal processing technologies such as narrow track pitch crosstalk cancellation, high linear density inter-symbol interference cancellation and multi-level recording.
Modules with discrete components continued to be used in specialist roles into the 1970s, notably high-speed modular designs like the CDC 8600, but advances in chip design led to the disappearance of the discrete-component module in the 1970s.
14 kbit/s is only 40% of the theoretical maximum bit rate predicted by Shannon's theorem for POTS lines (approximately 35 kbit/s).
The active loudspeaker is a normal driver, and the passive radiator is of similar construction, but without a voice coil and magnet assembly.
Flying In 1930, Maysie Chalmers and her first husband went on a 10-day flying tour across Europe, with 21 other aeroplanes.
Computer engineers usually have training in electronic engineering (or electrical engineering), software design, and hardware–software integration instead of only software engineering or electronic engineering.
Though both have the ability to exchange model and configuration information between different equipment or tools and use XML for storage, many differences separate the standards: CIM is based on UML, using inheritance.
CircuitMaker is electronic design automation software for printed circuit board designs, for the hobby, hacker, and maker community.
In 1919, Dolivo-Dobrovolski died of a severe heart condition at the academic hospital in Heidelberg.
Low-latency queuing (LLQ) is a network scheduling feature developed by Cisco to bring strict priority queuing (PQ) to class-based weighted fair queuing (CBWFQ).
There is no explosion hazard as long as the hydrogen concentration is maintained above 70%, typically above 91%.
Deborah Lea, Fredirikus Jonck, Christopher Hunt, Solderability Measurements of PCB Pad Finishes and Geometries, National Physical Laboratory, 2001 OCLC 59500348.
These forward echoes strike the receiver at different intervals making it difficult for the receiver to accurately detect data values on the signal.
Elimination of common-mode signals on cables entering or leaving electronic equipment is important to ensure electromagnetic compatibility.
Contact cleaner Contact cleaner can be applied to the contact surfaces to inhibit the formation of resistive surface films and/or to ameliorate existing films.
Phototransistors must be properly biased and loaded to achieve their maximum speeds, for example, the 4N28 operates at up to 50 kHz with optimum bias and less than 4 kHz without it.
The journal was established in 1955 under the name Journal of Electronics, Retitled to Journal of Electronics and Control in 1957, the journal split into International Journal of Electronics and International Journal of Control in 1964.
Besides understanding the phenomena in themselves, EMC also addresses the countermeasures, such as control regimes, design and measurement, which should be taken in order to prevent emissions from causing any adverse effect.
It is defined in ITU-T G.992.3 for "all digital mode ADSL" as a current flowing from the ATU-C (ADSL Linecard) via the phone lines to the ATU-R (CPE).
References External links IQ Constellation Spurious Tone display on 8594Q QAM Analyzer at the Wayback Machine (archived September 9, 2011)
Adopted by law by the majority of states and Public Service Commissions across the US, the NESC is a performance code considered to be the authoritative source on good electrical engineering practice.
A treatment plant operator caused the accident by improperly mixing chemicals in a waste treatment holding tank, creating pockets of chlorine gas.
(originator-to-recipient speed of service) The time between entry of a message into a communications system and receipt of the message at the terminating communications facility, i.e., the communications facility serving the addressee, as measured by the system.
After this nodal processing, the router directs the packet to the queue where further delay can happen (queuing delay).
This now is the expected failure rate for this component in this application Add up all the results for every component in the system to find the overall failure rate for all components in this system.
Drying Presence of water in hydrogen has to be avoided, as it causes deterioration of hydrogen's cooling properties, corrosion of the generator parts, and arcing in the high voltage windings, and reduces the lifetime of the generator.
He pioneered the generation of electricity in Nepal which provided power to the country's emerging industrial sector.
In addition to his recognition for GPS work, he founded multiple startups and is the CEO of MIPS Technologies (Wave Computing).
One-port elements Only nine types of element (memristor not included), five passive and four active, are required to model any electrical component or circuit.
The few mathematical techniques which have been developed to handle them are more difficult and much less general, often applying only to narrow categories of systems.
The Pat Metheny Group recorded a portion of the score for the feature film The Falcon and the Snowman (1985) there.
See also Zero-crossing References External links Simple Methods for Detecting Zero Crossing Isolated High Quality Mains Voltage Zero Crossing Detector
Possible methods of connecting contact pads to a system include soldering, wirebonding, or flip chip mounting.
This can be used if a "clean" direct output from the amplifier is desired, which does not contain the tone shaping created by the bassist's adjustment of the EQ controls.
Nonintrusive load monitoring (NILM), nonintrusive appliance load monitoring (NIALM), or energy disaggregation is a process for analyzing changes in the voltage and current going into a house and deducing what appliances are used in the house as well as their individual energy consumption.
Ripple current Ripple current is a periodic non-sinusoidal waveform derived from an AC power source characterized by high amplitude narrow bandwidth pulses.
In 1966, he was designated the director of the Technical Centre at the International Radio and Television Organization (OIRT – Intervision), headquartered in Prague, a position he held until 1971.
In general, this will be a complex function of jω, which can be derived from an analysis of the impedances in the network and their individual transfer functions.
Dolivo-Dobrovolsky worked with chained three-phase alternating current and introduced the term three-phase current.
See also Safe operating area Underclocking References "Complementary NPN−PNP Power Bipolar Transistors" (pdf).
Peak matching - short periods of time during which demand exceeds the output of load matching plants; generation capable of satisfying these peaks in demand is implemented through quick deployment of dispatchable sources.
The Z-matrix gives no information about the behaviour of the network when the currents at any port are not balanced in this way (should this be possible), nor does it give any information about the voltage between terminals not belonging to the same port.
The electrical resistance of the sliding brush contact causes a voltage drop in the motor circuit called brush drop, which consumes energy.
While working as a member of the ground crew, Kassalen's responsibilities included resolving electrical problems in the aircraft and aiding in landing procedures.
an integrated circuit designer of iPhone main processor IC (ARM architecture CPU) integrates other IP cores like USB 2.0, DSP, MP4 decoder, etc., so that the additional features of USB 2.0, MP4 decoder, etc.
single line-to-ground fault or line-to-ground fault - a short circuit between one line and ground, very often caused by physical contact, for example due to lightning or other storm damage.
A typical boiling water reactor goes through the following stages: establishment of a chain reaction (up to 6 hours); getting to nominal temperature and pressure in the reactor (12 hours); warming up the steam generation (12 hours); increasing the load (2-3 days).
It may happen that the tantalum oxide layer has weak spots that undergo dielectric breakdown during a voltage spike.
1905 or sooner: Fischer Motor Vehicle Co., Hoboken, NJ produces and sells a petrol–electric omnibus in the United States and in London, including battery storage.
Design and operating fundamentals The stator consists of multiple projecting (salient) electromagnet poles, similar to a wound field brushed DC motor.
Hence, the rotor tends to align with the energized stator poles which minimizes the reluctance of the magnetic circuit.
Alternatively, the system could run at the same torque as before, with torque and current split equally across the two motors, which halves the resistive losses.
For equivalence, the impedances between any pair of terminals must be the same for both networks, resulting in a set of three simultaneous equations.
When first introduced in 1943, the Jaumann layer consisted of two equally spaced reflective surfaces and a conductive ground plane.
Unlike a three-wire distribution system, the grounded neutral is not distributed to the loads; only line-to-line connections at 120 V are used.
Because the PCB is moved rather than the turret, only lightweight parts that will not be shaken loose by the violent motion of the PCB can be placed this way.
Equipment Generally, mastering engineers use a combination of specialized audio-signal processors, low-distortion-high-bandwidth loudspeakers (and corresponding amplifiers with which to drive them), within a dedicated, acoustically-optimized playback environment.
The paper was of importance because transmission lines were getting longer, leading to greater loads and more chances for system instability, and Clarke's paper provided a model that applied to large systems.
In other words, if the controlling input signal is applied at any point during the AC output wave other than very close to the zero-voltage point of that wave, the output of the switching device will "wait" to switch on until the output AC wave reaches its next zero point.
References Page of Faculty of Electronics in Technical University of Varna Georgiev`s page in Technical University of Varna`s website "Anton Georgiev".
Operation The standard specifies the method for inserting unique identifiers into the user data area of an AES3 stream.
In a semiconductor device, a parasitic structure is a portion of the device that resembles in structure some other, simpler semiconductor device, and causes the device to enter an unintended mode of operation when subjected to conditions outside of its normal range.
120 V circuits are the most common, and used to power NEMA 1 (non-grounding) and NEMA 5 (grounding) outlets, and most residential and light commercial direct-wired lighting circuits.
In IPT The preceder to ICTCP, Ebner & Fairchild IPT color appearance model (1998), has a mostly similar transformation pipeline of input → LMS → nonlinearity → IPT.
The Bernard Price Memorial Lecture is the premier annual lecture of the South African Institute of Electrical Engineers.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to computer engineering: Computer engineering – discipline that integrates several fields of electrical engineering and computer science required to develop computer hardware and software.
In preparation for welding of the copper ends in a later process step, this insulation is partially removed.
MPLAB ICD 3 The MPLAB ICD 3 is an in-circuit debugger and programmer by Microchip, and is the latest in the ICD series.
She was involved with the Home Workers' Campaign, organised by the Electrical Association for Women, which promoted the use of electricity in the home, and tried to raise the status of domestic service.
Since Porsche made the first hybrid car in 1899 there have been a number of hybrid vehicles; but there was a marked increase in interest in, and development of, hybrid vehicles for personal transport in the late 1990s.
Analyzing how a network is affected by its individual elements makes it possible to estimate how a real network will behave.
The field first became an identifiable occupation in the late nineteenth century after commercialization of the electric telegraph and electrical power supply.
The transmitter can be keyed on at any time, independent of whether or not a signal is being received at the receiver input.
Determination The busy hour is determined by fitting a horizontal line segment equivalent to one hour under the traffic load curve about the peak load point.
Hydroelectric power plants can often dispatch in tens of seconds to minutes, and natural gas power plants can generally dispatch in tens of minutes.
A further publication by Bartlett in 1968 introduced the concept of an alternating bit protocol (later used by the ARPANET and the EIN) and described the need for three levels of data transmission, roughly corresponding to the lower levels of the seven-layer OSI model that emerged a decade later.
CAM is also appropriate when a portable device will be used for only a short time that the battery can easily accommodate.
Once a fake codec is installed, it is often used to access private data, corrupt an entire computer system or continue spreading the malware.
AES52 is a standard first published by the Audio Engineering Society in March 2006 that specifies the insertion of unique identifiers into the AES3 digital audio transport structure.
She was the first woman to be accepted as a full voting member in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
Electric meters with NILM technology are used by utility companies to survey the specific uses of electric power in different homes.
Vias in integrated circuits In integrated circuit (IC) design, a via is a small opening in an insulating oxide layer that allows a conductive connection between different layers.
History After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, many designs were used by separatists from Crimea.
Related flags The Serb tricolor has been used as the basis for other flags, most notably as Serbia's national flag.
Usage The flag was adopted by the short-lived Croatian Republic of Herzeg-Bosnia in 1992 as a variation of Croatian flag and used throughout the war.
The constitution of Puntland called for the autonomous state to have its own flag and anthem, as part of Somalia.
This was to pay the costs of the French expeditionary corps, which should have helped Genoa to secure its control of Corsica; French troops put down the long-standing rebellion on the island.
Despite the lack of verification about its historic use, the design is popular among those who prefer its lack of apparent colonial imagery.
The Senyera (sometimes together with the flag of Andorra) is also used informally in Catalonia to represent the Catalan language.
On 19 November 2003 the proportion of the flag was changed from the original 1:2 to 2:3, and the middle stripe from light blue to blue.
Following the Naga Peace Accord that sought to end the long insurgency, the Naga representatives formally requested an official status for the flag, as well as a separate Constitution (Yehzabo) for the Naga people.
In the Republic of Somaliland Public display of the flag of Somalia is strictly prohibited in the self-declared Republic of Somaliland since 1991.
It depicts the waters of the Indian Ocean, where the islands are located, in the form of white and blue wavy lines.
See also Berberism Berber Latin alphabet Tifinagh Berber mythology Mohand Arav Bessaoud Flag of the movement for the autonomy of Kabylia Flag of Azawad References External links Berber flag at Flags of the World
The flag of Azad Kashmir (Urdu: پرچمِ آزاد کشمیر), officially the state flag of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, is a civil and state flag representing the Pakistani-administered territory of Azad Kashmir.
Observing Naga Independence Day on August 14th, a day before India's independence, further solidifies the flag’s role as a symbol of resistance, faith, and the enduring spirit of the Naga nation.
Also, the Druze formed an alliance with Britain and allowed Protestant missionaries to enter Mount Lebanon, creating tension between them and the Catholic Maronites.
The Sámi are also referred to as "offspring of the Sons of the Sun" in "Sami soga lavlla," the Sámi anthem.
Symbolism The main colors of the flag (green and yellow) are the same as the flag of Brazil and represent the state's integration with Brazil.
In Nova Scotia, special “Acadian flag” number plates were established by regulation in 2011 (effective 2012).
The design was probably first used in the coat of arms of the counts of Forcalquier (in modern Provence), in the 12th century, and by the counts of Toulouse in their capacity as Marquises of Provence, on 13th century coins and seals.
History The flag is based on the military flag given by King Sobhuza II to the Swazi Pioneer Corps in 1941 to remind them of the nation's military traditions.
Hobson did not meet with the Māori party at the appointed time, and the colonial powers at Russel raised the British flag on the staff once again.
Independently, each color has the following meaning: The yellow represents the riches of the earth; The green represents hope.
During celebrations of Papuan Flag Day in 2019, an unknown number of people were arrested for planning or carrying out celebrations of Papuan Flag Day, with sources reporting numbers from 34 to over 100 arrested.
The Menorah speaks of the creation of the world in seven days, and the number of bands of the rainbow emphasizes the connection with the ancient Jewish symbol.
The flag of Bashkortostan is one of the official state symbols of the Republic of Bashkortostan, a federal subject and republic of Russia, alongside the coat of arms and anthem.
'blue flag'), introduced by the government of the short-lived First East Turkestan Republic (1933–1934).
In 1986, Jean-Yves Royer (in Le Pays de Forcalquier) claims that the cross was originally from Provence but admits that Henri Rolland's theory was flawed and built around wrong dates.
Each of the colours references a realm in the creation story of Māori mythology: black is Te Korekore (potential being), red is Te Whai Ao (coming into being), and white is Te Ao Mārama (the realm of being and light).
Prior to the creation of the new flag, the leaders of the Bashkir nationalist movement decided to adopt the flag of Bashkurdistan as its official flag.
The white stripe is 1/15 of the flag's width and is located between equal-width stripes of green and red.
In 1913, El Khoury, publishing from Brazil in his journal Le Sphynge, proposed a white flag with a central cedar, which was adopted by Lebanese emigrants in America and consequently presented to Allied Powers representatives.
Use According to the articles of adoption, the flag of French Polynesia must be displayed with the French tricolour, and may be displayed with the flags of the component archipelagos.
That was created for Guernsey residents and British subjects as an alternative flag of Guernsey as well as to be used as Guernsey's merchant ensign.
The flag first came to the notice of a wider public at the Exposition Internationale des Arts Décoratifs et Industriels Modernes in Paris in 1925.
On vehicles, the foreign flag is displayed on the right side, while the Lebanese flag is displayed on the left.
While the government adopted the seal with a blue background, they have adopted a flag with a white background.
The eagle has an aspect ratio of its height equal 7⁄10 to the height of the flag, and 3⁄5 of its width to the width of the flag.
In the white triangle, a black design of Matatiki ("the gaze of Tiki") represents the first man in Polynesian mythology, and the inventor of sculpture and tattooing.
Canton flag Since the creation of Bosniak-Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1994 and the establishment of its 10 cantons in 1996, as Herzeg-Bosnia was abolished, it was used as the official flag of three Croat-majority cantons (Posavina Canton, Canton 10 and West Herzegovina Canton).
The green is the traditional colour of Islam, a faith that has been the integral part of Malay culture.
The current flag is a horizontal tricolour flag of saffron, green, and red charged with a five-pointed white star in the centre of the field.
As there was not any Spanish official flag yet, Asturians created the current flag, without any separatist intention in the war against the Napoleon's empire.
Colours History The flag was designed by Alfred Chalons, a technology and plastic arts teacher at La Mennais high school, who entered the competition with the support of his students.
History Greenland first entertained the idea of a flag of its own in 1973 when five Greenlanders proposed a green, white and blue flag.
This flag was also adopted by other kingdoms of the Minangkabau rantau such as the Inderapura Kingdom.
The flag has also been flown at numerous anti-Chinese government protests, including demonstrations held in Istanbul, Washington D.C., New York City, Hong Kong, and Taipei.
Another version is that the Kings of Aragon used and adopted the colours of the Papal States in their own coat of arms as a public and notorious submission to the Pope, something which the County of Barcelona would have followed shortly after according to this version.
Until 1967, the previous flag showed a very complex design with a fanciful border and religious pictograms surrounding the khorlo.
Alam Peudeueng had many variations throughout its history of usage due to the lack of standardisation of the construction and form of the flag.
History A Federal Flag Bill was proposed in the Cook Islands Parliament in 1892, but was not assented to.
The flag’s proportions are set at 8:11 in the Faroese Flag Act, though 5:7 is also commonly encountered in practice.
What is going on?" The exact designs and dimensions of the flags are not described by Seypidin in his work.
Running through the center of the flag horizontally, is an arc that is meant to symbolize the new horizon of opportunity for black people.
Symbolism The five-pointed star refers both to Texas (nicknamed the "Lone Star state") and to the "freedom of African Americans in all 50 states".
The central focus of the flag is a Nguni shield and two spears, symbolising protection from the country's enemies.
In the centre is placed a red lion, that stands on its back legs, have raised its front paws, and put its tongue out.
This is a direct reference to the Book of Revelation (verses 1:8, 21:6, and 22:13), I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, says the Lord God, who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.
Description The unofficial flag of Wallis and Futuna features a red saltire on a white square, which in turn is placed on a red field (alternatively, a larger white cross pattée is used).
Kawharu, as published in the Report of the Royal Commission on Social Policy in 1988 (bold added): Flag The tino rangatiratanga flag is often referred to as the national Māori flag and can be used to represent all Māori.
The two horizontal white bands represent hope, the dark blue of the quadratic drawing, the skies and the red band represents overcoming difficulties.
Pierre and Miquelon, Brittany and the Basque Country, much of it predating Newfoundland's admission as a Canadian province in 1949.
Other Māori flags New Zealand National Flag The government of New Zealand continues to recognise the flag of New Zealand as the national symbol of both Māori and non-Māori citizens.
However, this wish has no binding legal force and each local authority is left free to apply it or not.
French-Canadian fur traders soon arrived, bringing blankets, jewelry, tools, whiskey and weapons to trade for skins with the Native Americans.
(Homeland Association of Silesia - Lower and Upper Silesia) a group representing the German expellees from Silesia and their decedents.
In Illinois, Governor JB Pritzker ordered the flag to be flown above the Illinois State Capitol on June 19, 2021.
Although not used at an official level, the flag is still a common sight in the territory, being flown alongside the French tricolour in front of private residences and even government buildings.
Along the entire length of the top and bottom of the flag there are two green stripes, each of which is one-sixth the width of the flag.
Black for the Minangkabau people has the meaning of eternity, or called tahan tampo (resistant to forging), red symbolises courage and endurance, while gold symbolises majesty, brilliance and shine.
Generally, the castle is represented with a wall above which the five towers are placed, of which the central tower is often the highest.
The flag of Acadiana (drapeau de l'Acadiane) represents the Acadian (Cajun) ethnic region of southern Louisiana.
Traditionally, as long as the essential colors and symbols are present, artistic interpretations are acceptable.
The flag of the Nenets Autonomous Okrug, in the Russian Federation, is a white field charged with green stripe and a blue ornament strand (a Khor Lambey, seen also on the flag of Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug) near the bottom.
In many cases, the national flag of a sovereign state is often seen and used as a de facto ethnic flag by its people.
The red, white and blue represent the colors traditionally utilized by both the United States and Samoa.
Other Spanish regions also have variants of their flags with red stars, for example, in Galicia there is Estreleira.
Arabic is their primary language, and Druze cultural practices and traditions are deeply intertwined with the broader Arab heritage.
In January 2024, Brown further suggested that the decision on the flag could be put to a referendum.
See also Watan Hamara Azad Kashmir Flag of Jammu and Kashmir National flag of Pakistan List of Pakistani flags == References ==
The emblem's sun disk has 21 rays, equal in size and shape, with the single odd ray at top and the two even rays on the bottom.
The flag was used informally for many years, having been first raised on December 14, 1980, at the opening of the airport on Nuku Hiva.
In response, the Sword Standard has gained popularity as an alternative, with a considerable number of Acehnese society viewing it as a more culturally appropriate and historically representative symbol for the province.
Flag on stamps See also Emblem of Abkhazia Coat of arms of the Socialist Soviet Republic of Abkhazia Flag of the Abkhaz Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic Notes References External links Flag of Abkhazia at FOTW Abkhazia in the Soviet Union (1940-1956) at Flags of the World
The Berber flag or Amazigh flag is an ethnic flag used as a common symbol of related ethnic groups in North Africa.
In August 1875, the Ottoman sultan bestowed upon Yakub the title of emir and the Sancak-ı Şerif (the sultan's holy flag), and sent military advisors and weapons to assist Yakub Beg's army.
It is intended to represent "the Aramean (Syriac) nation in the Aramean homeland and in the Aramean diaspora".
Some designs are in official use on a local or provincial level, while others are used unofficially on a regional, linguistic or international level.
It was the first time in the autonomous state's 11-year history that it had adopted distinctive state symbols.
Besides, amongst the ancient manuscripts preserved today in Poblet Monastery is found a carte plegada on son tots los Reys d'Arago e Comtes de Barchinona figurats, a genealogical roll of the Kings of Aragon and Counts of Barcelona commissioned between 1396 and 1400 by King Martin I of Aragon.
The flag of Rakhine State in Myanmar is a bicolour of white and red, charged with the Shrivatsa, a historical symbol of Arakan, on a blue disk in the centre.
2006–present In 2006, a new flag was chosen from four proposed designs; all of these designs included a brown Basotho hat instead of the shield.
The flag of Kalmykia consists of a yellow background with a sky blue circle in the centre containing a white lotus.
Subsequently, the Chaco provincial parliament recognized it as the official flag of the Mocoví ethnic group in Law No.
Origin According to the legend, it originates from the 13th century when a young Corsican woman named Diana was captured by Moorish slavers who planned to sell her to the slave market of Granada.
Following an Azerbaijani offensive on 19 September 2023, Artsakh agreed to dissolve itself by 1 January 2024.
See also Croats of Serbia Croat National Council Flag of Croatia Coat of arms of Croatia Flag of Serbs of Croatia == References ==
Terminology The name is a neologism by Luis and Sabino Arana, from ikur 'mark, sign' (itself a neologism extracted from irakurri 'to read'), comparable to the Catalan Senyera and Faroese Merkið.
Three square fields placed along the hoist recall the origin of most inhabitants of the islands, from top to bottom, the Basque ikurrina, the arms of the duchy of Brittany for the Bretons, and the flag of Normandy for the Normans.
The flag of Eswatini was adopted on 6 October 1968 after Eswatini (then known as Swaziland) gained its independence from the United Kingdom one month before.
In 2022, 15 years after the creation of the flag, Johansson-Kyrö was awarded the first Nordic Kven culture prize for his efforts.
The rising diagonal band represents the equator, the star above representing this Northern Hemisphere archipelago.
In the 2000s, a green and white tribar with the coat of arms of Guernsey in the centre was created by Guernsey sports fans to be used as Guernsey's unofficial sporting flag.
History of the flag As many other flags of medieval origin, the Senyera, or "Senyal Reial" (royal ensign), was used in those years as the arms of the King of Aragon.
Chagos Islanders within the United Kingdom used the flag of the British Indian Ocean Territory to protest against the proposed transfer and expressed a desire for it to remain British with a referendum on self-determination.
The flag consists of three symbols: a white star representing the United States, a gray latte stone representing the Chamorro people, and a multi-colored mwarmwar (floral wreath) representing the Carolinians.
Sadananda Gowda mentioned in his budget speech that the hoisting of the Kannada flag on 1 November will be made compulsory in all government offices, schools, and colleges.
For this idea, they allege that Sancho III ruled most of Christian Spain, from León to Barcelona, and that he was cited as Rex Hispanorum Regum, that is, "King of the Kings of the Hispanians".
According to the flag's designer, Uinifareti Rapi Sotoa, the white section represents the Manuʻa District.
The flag was authorized on 23 June 2000, prior to the okrug's merge to Krasnoyarsk Krai on 1 January 2007.
"Konstitutsiya (Osnovnoy Zakon) Bashkirskoy Avtonomnoy Sovetskoy Sotsialisticheskoy Respubliki" Конституция (Основной Закон) Башкирской Автономной Советской Социалистической Республики [Constitution of the Baskhir Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic].
The SYL, being the most popular political organization in the country, initially sought to use their party's flag, but was rejected outright by rival parties.
A flame was added later on to represent the Holy Spirit, but is said to have originated from Assyrian symbolism that was used by organizations in Lebanon and the diaspora before the advent of the modern naming dispute.
Contemporary usage The Kök Bayraq is frequently used by supporters of the East Turkestan independence movement, Uyghur nationalists, and Turkic diaspora communities to represent East Turkestan or the Uyghur people in particular.
The sun disk is replaced by a flame to symbolize, according to Syrianska Riksförbundet, the Holy Spirit and the Christian heritage of the Syriac peoples.
The design was inspired by the French tricolour flag, and the colours stood for freedom, equality, and fraternity.
After Crimea was transformed into the Crimean Oblast (region) on 30 June 1945, its flag was abolished.
Uses The flag is used by the Batak people not as a symbol of separatism but a symbol of ethnic and cultural identity.
A deadlock ensued until it was broken by the Somali scholar Mohammed Awale Liban who suggested a different symbol from the ones proposed.
Black represents the dried blood of the ancestors, white represents honesty and strength, and brown and blue represent the land and sea of the traditional territory.
The flag of Crimea (Russian: Флаг Крыма, romanized: Flag Kryma; Ukrainian: Прапор Криму, romanized: Prapor Krymu; Crimean Tatar: Къырым байрагъы, romanized: Qırım bayrağı) is the flag of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in Ukraine and the Republic of Crimea controlled by Russia.
The first quarter shows the eagle of (Lower) Silesia, which also appears in other Silesian arms and in the coat of arms of the Czech Republic.
The flag's proportions are 2:1:2 and the ratio of the height of the flag to its width is fixed at 1:2, similarly to the Flag of Latvia.
As you may know, the official Turkish flag includes a white crescent and a star on it." Construction of the Kök Bayraq See also Emblem of East Turkestan List of Chinese flags Notes References Citations Sources External links Media related to Flags of East Turkestan at Wikimedia Commons
Symbolism The tricolour is derived from the three important values of Malayness; Islam, Malay rulers and Malay culture.
Two Papuan men, Filep Karma and Yusak Pakage, were sentenced to 15- and 10-year sentences for raising the flag in Jayapura in 2004.
Pan-African Flags follow two similar color sets: red, black, and green inspired by the Black Liberation Flag.
See also Flag of Silesia and Lower Silesia References External links Media related to Flag of Upper Silesia at Wikimedia Commons
The stars on the flag are believed to symbolize ancestors, who, according to Selknam mythology, become stars after death.
The University of Nebraska celebrated Juneteenth by flying the flag alongside their Nebraska flag in 2020.
The white stripe is the largest of the three and is 2/3 of the flag's width, and the red stripe is located at the bottom edge and is 1/6 of the flag's width.
Al-Meleh a popular dish among Druze in Hauran region (Suwayda Governorate), cooked in a pressure cooker and served on huge special plates at weddings, holidays, and other special occasions.
Wojciech Cejrowski, the then honorary ambassador of Kociewie, publicly expressed racist criticism of the adoption of the winning design due to its apparent similarity to the colours of the Ukrainian flag.
By the time of his last trip in April 1875, the Ottoman flag had already been flying over Kashgar for two years.
The flag design was decided on by a commission consisting of government officials and local intellectuals which included Dr.
Design It consists of three equal size, horizontal stripes in Pan-Slavic colors: red, white, and blue.
The Australian Aboriginal flag was designed by Aboriginal artist Harold Thomas in 1971, and it was first flown in Adelaide in July of that year.
The blue was officially defined as Prussian blue (dark blue), however, it wasn't popular, with usage of light blue being preferred instead.
Color scheme Images See also Flags and coats of arms of cities, villages and districts of Adygea Seferbiy Zaneqo References External links Adygea at Flags of the World
The term Aappalaartoq (meaning "the red") is also used for both the Greenlandic flag and the flag of Denmark (Dannebrog).
The current flag was adopted by Leonid Markelov, noted for his authoritarian pro-Russian, anti-Mari, administration and his later arrest for accepting bribes, and was designed by Andrey Sannikov.
The Torres Strait Island Regional Council (the body that superseded the Island Coordinating Council in 2008) asserts ownership of the copyright.
Historical national flags Maritime flags The naval ensign of the Royal Thai Navy (RTN) is the national flag with a red circle in the middle that reaches as far as the red stripes at the top and bottom.
The coexistence with the pro independentist flag proved controversial, with the New Caledonian deputy to the National Assembly Gaël Yanno calling it "akin to raising the Palestinian flag over the Knesset".
Usage in Saxony The white and yellow flag is recognized as the symbol of Silesian people in the state of Saxony in Germany.
With the fall of the Soviet Union, Dagestan dropped the А (for Автономная 'autonomous') from its flag and the inscription read simply ДССР.
It is displayed on the right side of the President's vehicle and the front right side of the vehicles of the Speaker of Parliament and the Prime Minister.
Since 2000, a red ensign with the cross in the fly has been used as the government's civil ensign and as a blue ensign.
In 2018, University of Louisiana professor Rick Swanson proposed two potential replacement Acadiana flags.
Others have noted that, despite only Māori participating in the vote, all of the designs were created by an English missionary without consultation of any Māori.
These leaders are pivotal in guiding both the spiritual and social aspects of Druze life, which is crucial for preserving their unique identity.
Variant Asturina The flag of Asturias with red star, also called plain Asturina, is a version of the flag of Asturias with a five-pointed red star on top of the pole and a cross in the middle, without the letters alpha and omega.
In the middle is the coat of arms of the Croatian Republic of Herzeg-Bosnia stylised with a triple wattle at the top.
He rejected the scallop shell due to its religious association with the Camino de Santiago, the triskelion because of its visual similarity to the swastika, and a crossed sickle and anchor to avoid imitating the communist hammer and sickle.
On 25 April 1967, the day the pledge of oath was taken by the king, the flag was hoisted for the first time.
The Flag of Hazaristan has been extensively used in many countries during the global Hazara protests against the Hazara genocide in Afghanistan.
In the 1940s, there were attempts to change the flag of the Republic, but all of them were unsuccessful.
Consequently, deliberations began over a new territorial flag and the Samoans were invited to propose ideas.
The Tiger or Jumping Tiger was the royal emblem of the Cholas and was depicted on coins, seals and banners.
The flag of the Balearic Islands is the official flag of the Balearic Islands, an archipelago and autonomous community of Spain located in the western Mediterranean Sea.
On 5 June 1992, five proposals were submitted to the Verkhovna Rada of Crimea (Crimean Parliament): Blue–white–blue triband with large white space and narrow blue strips at the top and bottom edges of the flag.
After the establishment of the Kingdom of Kurdistan in 1921, the crescent flag was again hoisted in Sulaymaniyah by Mahmud Barzanji.
In 2022, the governor of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast, Rostislav Goldstein, stated that the flag depicts a "biblical symbol" and has "nothing in common" with the LGBT flag, and said not to confuse it with the LGBT flag.
The flag of the Italian region of Veneto derives from the flag historically used by the Republic of Venice (697–1797), a maritime republic centered on the modern city of Venice.
Symbolism The twenty-five stars in the upper left corner represent the twenty-five municipalities of the state in 1897, the year that the Military Forces of Amazonas entered into the War of Canudos.
The colours of the flag are the same as those of the flag of Denmark, symbolising Greenland's place in the Danish realm.
The flag is most frequently displayed in the vice president's office and during official functions where the vice president is present, mostly during speeches.
The flag of Croats of Serbia (Croatian: Zastava Hrvata u Srbiji) is one of the main symbols of the Croat ethnic minority in Serbia.
A design associated with Thierry's claim has appeared in publications and throughout the internet, but its origin and connection to the historical incident remain unverified.
"Biafra War Documentaries: Explaining Continual Resurgence of Secessionist Agitations in the South-East", Nigeria, Civil Wars, 23.2, pp.
In 2000, the States of Guernsey adopted a blue ensign version of the Guernsey ensign for maritime usage on government vessels.
The phrase features in current historical and political discourse on race relations in New Zealand and is widely used by Māori advocacy groups.
Parish flags Other flags See also Flag of Jersey List of flags of the United Kingdom References External links Media related to Flags of the Bailiwick of Guernsey at Wikimedia Commons
In 2024, the Regional Council of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol recognized the flag, allowing it to be officially displayed in municipalities next to the Italian tricolour.
A third influential body of opinion campaigned for the adoption of a banner of the three leopards (leopard being the heraldic term for a lion passant guardant), the island's heraldic device.
Culture The community's main political and social organization is the Fédération des Francophones de Terre-Neuve et du Labrador.
The flag design is attributed to Syrian-born Armenian-American Vahé Fattal, a well-known painter, graphic designer, art collector and philanthropist.
The Official Website of the Republic of the Philippines Archived January 1, 2012, at the Wayback Machine Philippine at Flags of the World Flag and Heraldic Code of the Philippines at Flags of the World How to properly display the Philippine flag.
Later in 1917, the middle colour was changed to dark blue, which was similar in tone to indigo or purple, which at the time was regarded as the auspicious colour for Saturday, the day Vajiravudh was born.
The flag of Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug consists of a blue field charged with a white crown ornament (seen also on the flag of Nenets Autonomous Okrug) and a red strip near the bottom.
The design by King Sobhuza II features a black and white shield called the Nguni shield, with a staff and two spears, on a field of blue, yellow, and red horizontal bands.
Flag of Komi-Permyak Autonomous Okrug The Komi-Permyak Autonomous Okrug adopted its first flag on February 12, 1996.
It is a blue flag with a golden strip and a "sun-star" and crescent moon, both perceived as ancient Székely symbols.
By the early 1900s Te Kara reputation as a flag of the Māori people, rather than of the nation of New Zealand, was solidified, and it began being identified as 'the Māori flag' in popular press.
It was used until 1931, when the SSR Abkhazia was transformed into the Abkhaz ASSR with a different flag.
Description The flag of Rapa Nui is white and features in its center a reimiro (a wooden pectoral ornament once worn by the people of Rapa Nui) painted in red (mana), a symbol of power, with two anthropomorphic figures at its edges, representing the ariki (chiefs, nobles).
In Hong Kong Police Force's operational guidelines for the law, examples of behavior endangering national security were mentioned, including demonstrators waving designated flags.
Nevertheless, an Ainu group displayed the flag when they marched at a May Day celebration in Sapporo in the same year.
It is found in another Armorial perhaps from the Lorraine area (preserved in the National Library of France) and of uncertain date but certainly in the 15th century.
History In 1989, there was a call for proposals for a flag and coat of arms of the German-speaking Community of Belgium.
Unlike the presidential standard, the vice president’s flag is not typically featured in official portraits, where the national flag is preferred.
A government with a constitution and legislature was established, with the Kök Bayraq specifically defined in the former.
See also Emblem of Sikkim National flag of India List of Indian state flags References External links Sikkim at Flags of the World Flag and seal of Sikkim at flaggenlexikon.de
Louis "Buzzy" Agard had proposed a Hawaiian flag design in 1993 which featured nine alternating stripes and the same charge as on the Kānaka Maoli flag, leading many to believe it is where Simeona drew his inspiration.
The seven MPs – Maroun Kanaan, Mohamad Al Fadl, Rachid Baydoun, Sabri Hamadeh, Henri Pharaon, Saadi Al Munla, and Saeb Salam – entered Parliament despite the French blockade, finalized the design with colored pencils, and adopted it as the national flag.
Each island will be allowed to have its own flag and distinctive symbols, by agreement of their respective councils.
The Kök Bayraq was previously banned in Turkey as well during the tenure of prime minister Mesut Yılmaz.
The state flag of Amazonas Department was officially adopted by means of the Commissarial Decree Nº 090 of August 21, 1974.
Despite the unification of the regions in 2007, the flag continued to be used until 2010, when the flag of Kamchatka Krai was approved.
The first design was created in 2006 by the Groep fan Auwerk and is based on the flags of Norway and Iceland.
Other flags Administrative divisions Settlement flags See also Coat of arms of Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Okrug Anthem of Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Okrug Notes References External links Flags of the World
A few years before his death he started publishing the magazine "Peasant of Ukraine" References T.S.
He participated in the revolution of September 1868 and joined the republican insurrection of 1869 for which he was imprisoned.
From the 1950s onwards, he worked at the Institute of Foreign Languages as head of department, dean, and vice-rector at different times.
After the appointment of Negrín as Minister of Finance, he was part of his cabinet as head of special missions to foreign banks, and, for instance, extra-official confidential missions to procure arms for the Republic despite the embargo imposed by the Non-Intervention Agreement.
In popular culture In the Florestano Vancini's film The Assassination of Matteotti (1973), Amendola is played by Damiano Damiani.
Elected in the 1936 Spanish general election as a deputy for Oviedo province, he was a member of the Republican Left party, which formed part of the Popular Front.
He continued to defend his role in the Empire, and lived long enough to see start of the Mexican Revolution and the fall of Porfirio Díaz, who had played such a key role in the defeat of the Empire forty years earlier.
In August 2024, Sarančukoŭ was sentenced in absentia to four years of imprisonment and a fine for "facilitating extremist activities".
There Lupis edited a bilingual magazine entitled Il Mondo which was a biweekly publication established by him in 1939.
This Liberal cabinet risked losing a vote in Parliament, with the possibility that a more conservative politician, Sidney Sonnino, would come to power; Turati urged that the Socialist deputies vote for the Zanardelli government.
On 13 August, Hasina released her first confirmed statements since her overthrow published by Wazed Joy calling for an investigation into the killings made during the protests, while insisting that police and the Awami League were also victims of "terrorist aggression".
She is sought for terror propaganda and having attended funerals of people who fought against the Turkish government.
During his life he met and befriended people like Ernest Hemingway and his lover Martha Gellhorn, Michael Curtiz (who asked Pacciardi for advice in the making of Casablanca) and Fabrizio De André, to whose first wedding he was best man due to his friendship with De André's father, Giuseppe.
Every Sunday, he recited his catechism before the countess and if he did well, he received a silver coin, which he recalled as "generous but humiliating".
Further reading Abul-Fath, A., L'affaire Nasser, Plon, 1962, University of Michigan References External links Media related to Youssef Seddik at Wikimedia Commons
He served as Armaments Commissioner on the Committee of Public Safety from 5 May 1795 – 1 September 1795.
Afterwards, she left for Giovanni's hometown Reggio Emilia to live with her in-laws and four children.
Ratsiraka had received a PCR diagnostic test for COVID-19, but the results were negative for coronavirus, according to relatives cited by Jeune Afrique.
After landing, the conservatives revolutionaries reached as far as Cojedes plains with the support of León de Febres Cordero and his son Ramón Páez.
"The Ukrainian people don't currently support Ukraine's entry to NATO and this corresponds to the status that we currently have.
Following the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine Horbatov fled Kyiv and is believed (by non-governmental organisation Chesno) to have fled to the Russian-occupied territories of Ukraine.
О новой методологии долгосрочного циклического прогнозирования динамики развития мировой системы и России // Прогноз и моделирование кризисов и мировой динамики.
He was subsequently elected, and repeatedly re-elected, to the Italian Chamber of Deputies on the PCI list and was a member of the party leadership.
He took part in a number of war actions, including the 4 February 1860 Battle of Tétouan, after which he was awarded the 1st Class of the Cross of St.
John Garang de Mabior, future leader of the SPLA, was among the batches of Muortat's soldiers sent to Israel for military training under the NPG.
He served as a deputy at the Italian Parliament and as a secretary general of the Italian Socialist Party for a short period between 1948 and 1949.
Like his political ally José Ortega y Gasset, he was a liberal republican and opposed to the Spanish monarchy, as well as a professed Anglophile who sought to import the English parliamentary system to Spain.
Her 1912 trip to the tiny, remote village of Quiberville would coincide with the increase of her annual pension to 75,000 francs.
He subsequently moved to Leningrad, where he trained as a physicist and graduated from the Leningrad Institute of Precision Mechanics and Optics in 1967 with an honors degree in mathematics, engineering and computer science.
A plaque on Laystall Street in Clerkenwell, London's Little Italy during the 1850s, also pays tribute to Mazzini, calling him "The Apostle of Modern Democracy".
Family On 13 April 1944, in Berlin, Germany, Anfuso married Kornélia "Nelli" Tasnady-Szüts (died 1995, Rome).
In 1996, while at the university, she founded the youth public association (initiative) The Seventh Facet.
Becoming president and first term, 1876–1880 Díaz did not take formal control of the presidency until the beginning of 1877, putting in General Juan N.
Ravalomanana was sworn in as president by his supporters on 22 February 2002, and the two governments fought for control of the country.
In 1964, after the death of Palmiro Togliatti, he became secretary of the PCI, declaring that he was "a secretary, not a boss".
He served on the committee of the Spanish Junta de Liberation, representing the Republican Left party, working closely with Indalecio Prieto.
Bilbao was involved in politics becoming a cofounder of the Basque Nationalist Action party in 1930 and the president of the Bilbao Municipal Housing Board in 1931.
She was elected organizational secretary of the PSOE's federal executive commission in September 1979.
In addition, D'Aragona was the director of the weekly magazine Il Lavoro socialista in 1946, of the fortnightly magazine Battaglie sindacali in the period 1947–1948, and of the weekly magazine Democrazia socialista in 1949.
From 1909 he had important positions within the General Confederation of Labor of which he was the secretary from 1918 to 1925.
Apart from one 24-hour period on election days, Stroessner ruled under what amounted to martial law for nearly all of his tenure.
The leader was Argentinian Marxist revolutionary Enrique Gorriarán Merlo (code named "Ramon"), an ex-Ejército Revolucionario del Pueblo member.
He used his time in prison to study English, French, German, and other subjects with his fellow inmates, effectively creating a “school” for illiterate prisoners.
Ugo Coccia (11 August 1895 – 23 December 1932) was an Italian socialist journalist and politician who served as the secretary of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) for two terms from 1926 to 1928 and from 1930 to 1932.
The PSOE expelled Negrín and a number of additional party members through a note published in El Socialista on 23 April 1946, before the celebration of a party congress in Toulouse.
He believed that the judicial authorities should be given the same powers which they used to enjoy during the British Indian Empire.
The son of a Jewish father and a Catholic mother, he received a multicultural and multireligious family education.
He was working in conjunction with General Quiroga who, from Laredo, Texas, was preparing an armed movement against the general government.
Haitian State and generates only 1.5 million US dollars following the liquidation of German property sequestered in the country.
Post-presidency and death (1946–1961) After his electoral defeat, Osmeña retired to his home in Cebu City.
In New York Lupis also worked in the Office of War Information at the Federal Communications Commission.
Italy eventually refused to extradite Markov to Ukraine, citing perceived political motives for the request.
When Hugo Chávez won the elections, he is elected deputy and head of the parliamentary fraction of Project Venezuela.
Early life and education Silone was born in a rural family, in the town of Pescina, near L'Aquila, in the Abruzzo region.
In his address to the mourning citizens of the South Sudanese town of Rumbek, the President of the Republic of South Sudan, Gen.
Resented by Mussolini for his prominent activism, Amendola was, together with the Unitary Socialist Party deputy Giacomo Matteotti and the popular priest Don Giovanni Minzoni, one of the régime's earliest victims, as he was beaten by 15 Blackshirts with clubs on 20 July 1925.
The first congress of the UGT of Spain in exile was held in November 1944, and he was elected president of the UGT which he held until 1955.
Considered a "mummy of provincial republicanism at the beginning of the century" by Joaquín Maurín, some authors have pointed out its shortcomings when it comes to stopping the civic-military conspiracy against the Republic.
Following Ghica's ouster, Băleanu Jr presented himself for the princely election, also serving as an elector; his father was also listed as "fit to be Prince", but died of coronary artery disease before the electors convened.
After some resistance by his part, he was moved to Constantinople and welcomed by the network of Mehmed Khamil Pasha, the former Governor of Aleppo and the Grand Visier of the Ottoman Empire at the time.
He continued to write for the now illegal Hamburger Volkszeitung and worked with Albert Bennies in the district leadership of the Revolutionäre Gewerkschafts Opposition (RGO), where he published the RGO newspaper Der Klassengewerkschafter.
In the mandatory self-disclosure of wealth submitted to the High Constitutional Court in 2000 by all presidential candidates, Ravalomanana declared ownership of 27 properties valued at over two billion Malagasy francs.
As a member of Radical Cause party, she was undersecretary of the Libertador Municipality of Caracas between 1993 and 1996, during the administration of Aristóbulo Istúriz.
Republican activist In 1915 Just joined the Juventud Nacionalista Republicana (Republican Nationalist Youth).
A Housing Fund was established to provide fiscal assistance to those homeless as a result of river erosion.
A militant of the National Liberation Movement (Movimiento Nacional de Liberación de Guinea Ecuatorial; MONALIGE), Masié Ntutumu was appointed Minister of the Interior by President Francisco Macías Nguema after the Independence of Equatorial Guinea, holding office until 1973.
In the summer of 2024, the Belarusian authorities sentenced Olga Karach in absentia to 12 years in prison and a fine.
Prime Minister Suhrawardy found it extremely difficult to govern effectively due to the issue of One Unit, alleviating the national economy, and President Mirza's constant unconstitutional interference in the Suhrawardy administration.
He argued that Italian fascism represented the "autobiography of the nation", an accretion of all the ills of Italian society.
He was subsequently appointed co-chairman of the Awami League Subcommittee on International Affairs.
In the United States, Rhee attempted to convince Woodrow Wilson to help the people involved in the 105-Man Incident, but failed to bring any change.
Kostyantyn Zhevago denies all accusations, as he personally and his companies are on the Russian Federation's sanctions list from October 2018.
He spent the years 1946-1949 in Paris in this role before returning to Mexico, where he died in 1970.
On 5 June 2017, the Turkish interior ministry announced that 130 people who are outside the country while being suspected of militant links will lose their citizenship unless they return to Turkey within three months and meet government standards.
He is currently a columnist in several digital newspapers and develops a great activity in social networks since his exile in the United States, particularly on Twitter, Facebook, Periscope, radios, Zello and YouTube.
Trade unionism Born in Sevilla and a baker by trade since age eleven, at 18 joined La Aurora, the Union of Seville bakers, who soon after joined the anarchist Confederación Nacional del Trabajo.
He developed an independent and eclectic style of architecture of his own, with a clear social perspective.
Personal Charles-Grégoire de Beauchamps married his first wife, Marie Anne Jeanne Françoise van Buel, (1710-1778) on 7 June 1761 in Liège, at that time in the Austrian Netherlands.
Hrizea and his family found safety in Brăila, but the authorities there eventually surrendered them to Constantin.
In July 2017 a court in Gaziantep confirmed another sentence of two and a half years against Konca for being a member of an armed organization and spreading propaganda for a terror organization.
On 24 January 2017, in a speech in parliament, Prime Minister Hasina blamed Muhammad Yunus for the World Bank's pulling out of the project.
In August 1914 he joined the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and Manuel Núñez de Arenas and he were responsible for running of the party's education institution, Central de Educación Socialista, which was founded in 1913 to train future administrators.
After his many encounters with political philosophers in England, France and across Europe, Mazzini had decided that the principle of equality between men and women was fundamental to building a truly democratic Italian nation.
In 1868, two years after the Austrians finally departed from Venice, his remains were brought to his native city and honoured with a public funeral.
He was a member of the Chamber of Deputies for the Democratic Party of Equatorial Guinea (Partido Democrático de Guinea Ecuatorial; PDGE).
Between 1923 and 1927, Beneš was a member of the League of Nations Council, serving as president of its committee from 1927 to 1928.
After having endured all sorts of vicissitudes continuing in Trinidad, Martinique, Paris, and Tenerife, he always sought to unite an armed force that would attempt to penetrate the country and return him to power.
Kent was against giving women the right to vote immediately, arguing that, as Spanish women lacked at that moment enough social and political education to vote responsibly, they would be very much influenced by the Catholic priests, causing damage to left-wing parties.
Being a member of the Italian Socialist Party he led the centrist faction along with Riccardo Lombardi.
Education Smolansky received his Bachelor's degree in Journalism from the Andres Bello Catholic University, and a Master's degree in International Public Policy from the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies.
Klyuyev and his younger brother, Serhiy Klyuyev, sold Active Bank in March 2013, as all stakes in the solar business were sold in 2008 already.
Buicescul's name is recorded among those of Wallachian boyars who openly begged for a Transylvanian intervention.
Aquino insisted that it was his natural right as a citizen to come back to his homeland, and that no government could prevent him from doing so.
Bibliography Principi di scienza delle finanze (1932) Il buon governo (1954) Prediche inutili (1956–1959) Luigi Einaudi (12 November 1919).
Jacobo had originally desired to be an economist or an engineer, but since the family was now impoverished, he could not afford to go to a university.
The deaths were attributed to Pérez's implementation of Plan Ávila, which resulted with authorities killing protesters.
According to Sandra Mackey, the settling "shattered tribal economic and undermined the traditional social structure.
During his presidential term, he aggressively privatized hundreds of state-run companies, including telecommunications, steel, and mining.
After the proclamation of the First Spanish Republic in February 1873 and the May 1873 election, he briefly served as president of the Congress of Deputies in June 1873.
Upon Quezon's sudden death in 1944, Osmeña succeeded him at age 65, becoming the first vice president to succeed to the Philippine presidency and the oldest person to assume it until Rodrigo Duterte took office in 2016 at age 71.
The following year Delgado founded the Compañía Anónima de Navegación Fluvial y Costanera, which controlled the entire maritime and river transport of Venezuela, with Gómez holding some shares.
Nicolás Estévanez Murphy (17 February 1838 – 19 August 1914) was a Spanish military officer, politician, essayist and poet.
Jovita Neliupšienė, foreign policy aide to Lithuania's president Dalia Grybauskaitė, said Yanukovych had called her to say he had changed his mind due to what she called Russian "economic pressure and blackmail".
He also withdrew from the speakership and surrendered his political power to a steering committee of the House of Representatives since December 1921.
Nonetheless, Sikorski soon realized that the Soviet Union had plans for Polish territories, which would be unacceptable to Polish public.
On October 20, 1961, his remains were laid in state at Malate Church in Manila before being transferred to Malacañang.
Tuğba Hezer Öztürk (born 4 October 1989, Erciş, Turkey) is a Turkish politician from Kurdish descent of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and a former Member of the Grand National Assembly for of Van.
Notes References Books on Diego Hidalgo y Durán Alvarez Junco (J.), Espadas Burgos (M.), Lopez (E.), Muñoz Tinoco (C.), Diego Hidalgo: Memoria de un tiempo difícil Alianza Editorial, Madrid, 1986.
He returned to Spain to vote against the candidacy of Amadeo of Savoy to be the head of State of Spain, becoming an active Republican agitator.
Constantinois At the beginning of 1840, Mustapha was commander-in-chief to the Algerian rebels that Abdelkader sent to the province of Constantine to harass the French troops.
He was charged with corruption, theft, and misappropriation of funds committed during his 15-year presidency.
He was prosecuted in relation of his activities as the owner of Özgür Gündem, and in January 1993, he had to announce the closure of the newspaper.
Biography Giuditta Bellerio was born in 1804 in Milan, the daughter of a magistrate of the Napoleonic Kingdom of Italy.
Luigi Carlo Farini (22 October 1812 – 1 August 1866) was an Italian physician, statesman and historian.
He also served the Papacy and the Jesuits at various times and was in contact with Duke Charles Emmanuel of Savoy.
On 16 Vendemiaire (8 October 1795) the Convention voted to rehabilitate Rabaut Saint-Étienne; he delivered the eulogy for his executed brother from the podium of the convention, and voted for his political writings to be published at the convention's expense.
Giuseppe Saragat (Italian: [dʒuˈzɛppe ˈsaːraɡat] ; 19 September 1898 – 11 June 1988) was an Italian politician and statesman who served as President of Italy from 1964 to 1971.
Later, in August 1981, he was moved to the Regional Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning after a disagreement with the (national) Minister of Industry and Mining, Sherif El-Tohamy, for his decision to place an oil refinery in Kosti instead of Bentiu.
Early life He was born on 28 October 1744 in Nîmes, the son of Paul Rabaut, a pastor from the Cévennes and of Madeleine Gaidan.
Raisa Vasylivna Bohatyriova (Ukrainian: Раїса Василівна Богатирьова; Russian: Раиса Васильевна Богатырёва; born January 6, 1953) is a Ukrainian politician and former Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine and Minister of Health and former Secretary of National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine.
Democratic Caesarism Specifically, Vallenilla argued that race had no biological basis and ought to be understood as socially constructed, particularly through political projects of nation-making.
From 2016 to 2019, Chowdhoury held the position of Organising Secretary of the Awami League's Central Committee.
Shamim Osman (Bengali: শামীম ওসমান; born 28 February 1961) is a politician from Bangladesh who belongs to Awami League.
After the departure of Amadeus, Ruiz Zorrilla advocated the establishment of a republic, but he was not called upon either by the Federal Republicans to help them during 1873 or by Marshal Serrano in 1874 to join Martos and Sagasta in his cabinet.
José María Orense de Milá de Aragón Herrero (1803–1880) was a Spanish politician and revolutionary, a prominent advocate of federal republicanism.
He insisted that contentious issues need to be discussed in order to be resolved and thereafter agreements have to be consistently implemented, rather than aggravating them thus creating basis for future conflicts.
On 3 June 2014 Tsaryov was stripped of his parliamentary immunity by the Verkhovna Rada (Ukraine's parliament) who also sanctioned his arrest.
Even from a distance, he also coordinated the work of Italian socialists in Brazil and was a correspondent for the newspaper Fanfulla.
Luigi Longo (15 March 1900 – 16 October 1980), also known as Gallo, was an Italian communist politician and general secretary of the Italian Communist Party from 1964 to 1972.
They added that he carried out Russia's tasks of "reformatting" the educational and medical industries in the occupied territories to meet the needs of the aggressor country".
As a member of the Senate during the Venetian Interdict (1606–1607), he argued the pro-papal position, reminding Venetians of their military weakness.
What to do." In January 2009, he was a member of an interdepartmental working group under the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus to develop an action plan for the development of country marketing in the Republic of Belarus.
And on the 17 September 1993 Kaya was arrested due to his participation at public event in Germany as well at the congress of the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) in 1993.
In 1992, Pontecorvo was selected to replace Guglielmo Biraghi as the director of the Venice Film Festival; he was responsible for the festivals of 1992, 1993 and 1994.
In August 2023, Kwok's parents and brothers were taken away by the National Security Department for investigation.
In 1928 he was relieved by Piłsudski of his command, and while he remained on active service, he received no other posting.
Revolution With the Revolution he was appointed administrator of the department of Aisne in June 1790.
In 2007 a Venezuelan court ordered his arrest, and in 2009 Venezuela applied to Interpol for assistance in bringing Peña before the court.
Notes References External links YouTube Channel Oleksii Arestovych on Telegram Apeiron School "Життя і скандали Олексія Арестовича" [Life and Scandals of Oleksii Arestovych].
Shortly after his return to Italy, Rigola was elected a deputy, being the first Italian worker at the Parliament of the Kingdom of Italy.
Relatives of the humourist told media outlets that the attackers threatened to break Farzat's bones as a warning for him to stop drawing cartoons of government officials, particularly Assad.
Ali was Ambassador to Germany, with concurrent accreditation to Austria, the Czech Republic, and Slovakia, from 1992 to 1995; Ambassador to Nepal from February to October 1996; and High Commissioner to the United Kingdom, with concurrent accreditation to Ireland, from 1996 to 2001.
His chief work is his Lezioni di letteratura italiana, of which the dominant note is the conviction that Italian literature "is as the very soul of the nation, seeking, in opposition to medieval mysticism, reality, freedom, independence of reason, truth and beauty" (P.
Malwal also worked as a senior research fellow at Columbia University (1978–1979), and senior research fellow and visiting academic at St.
World War II When Poland was invaded by Nazi Germany in 1939, he escaped to Angers, France, where the Polish government-in-exile was established.
Díaz succeeded in seizing power, ousting Lerdo in a coup in 1876, with the help of his political supporters, and was elected in 1877.
From 1915 he worked as the secretary of the Northern Railway Union which organized a general strike of August 1917.
Leurdeanu's tenure as Vornic ended on December 2, a date which marked his third refuge into Transylvania.
Rabinovich was elected to the Verkhovna Rada (Ukraine's parliament) the same year, placing fourth on the pro-Russian Opposition Bloc's electoral list.
He later was elected member of parliament and was appointed minister in the cabinet of Pi y Margall during the First Spanish Republic but with the restoration of the monarchy he went into exile in Paris, France.
In December 1949, the UdS was dissolved, and its members (including Silone) joined the Unitary Socialist Party (Partito Socialista Unitario, PSU).
After his stay in Rio de Janeiro and shaken by the death of his brother Alfredo from yellow fever, De Ambris left for France in 1911.
Honours Табачник, Дмитрий Владимирович Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise Order of Bohdan Khmelnytsky 3rd class Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic (October 28, 1996).
Opposition to Fascism Following World War I, Mussolini created the paramilitary Fasces of Revolutionary Action, then renamed Fasces of Italian Combat in 1919 and finally National Fascist Party in 1921, and he came to power in 1922 (after the March on Rome).
Filippo Anfuso (1 January 1901 – 13 December 1963) was an Italian writer, diplomat and fascist politician.
He was the first openly gay participant in the show, which caused controversy amongst fans and participants alike.
As Copland recalled, "To everyone's surprise, the reigning dictator, who had rarely dared to be seen in public, arrived at the last possible moment." On that evening actress Juana Sujo performed the spoken-word parts of the piece.
Because of a domestic accident, Simon Alberto Consalvi died in Caracas, Venezuela on 11 March 2013 He was 85.
D'Aragona served as the minister of labor and social security in the second government of Alcide De Gasperi between 1946 and 1947.
In 2020, it was alleged that Lukash was currently hosting a program and guest-appearing on pro-Russian channels owned by Viktor Medvedchuk, as part of a wider Russian disinformation campaign against Ukraine.
He was a member of Awami League's Chittagong City executive committee from 2012 to 2016 and was later promoted as an organising secretary of Awami League Central Executive Committee.
He did not participate in elections relating to impeachment of Jean-Paul Marat nor the conviction (and subsequent executions) of Girondins such as Georges Danton.
The Rise and Fall of Venezuelan President Carlos Andrés Pérez: An Historical Examination, Volume 2: The Later Years 1973–2004.
where he witnessed the 1911 Revolution which ended the Qing dynasty and renegotiated the statute of the Italian concession of Tientsin with the new Chinese authorities.
On 5 January 2023, Figuera was elected as president of the IV National Assembly, even though she remains in exile.
Associates and relatives Diego Salazar Carreño, cousin, arrested in 2017 and accused of money laundering of €1.3 billion in the Andorra case.
Stalin claimed that only a strong, pro-Soviet government in Poland would be able to guarantee the security of the Soviet Union.
Vida militar y política del señor general de división don Leonardo Márquez Araujo (México, 1978) Fowler, Will.
Sanctions In September 2016, the United States Department of Commerce sanctioned the committee as part of an expansion of sanctions on organizations involved in the war in Donbas.
Miguel Maura Gamazo (13 December 1887 – 3 July 1971) was a Spanish politician who served as the minister of interior in 1931 being the first politician to hold the post in the Second Spanish Republic.
Following the resignation of Santiago Casares Quiroga two days after the outbreak of the civil war, he was appointed prime minister on 19 July 1936.
At that time Soviet forces, expecting an easy final victory, were surprised and crippled by the Polish counter-attack.
In his next letter to President Reagan on October 20, Marcos complained that Giuliani was giving them nothing but an ultimatum to plead guilty, and even to testify against others, including his own family.
The Mexican government did capture and jail some high-level drug mafia leaders, including Miguel Ángel Félix Gallardo in 1989, whose arrest made visible the extent of law enforcement collusion.
In that position, he blocked the request to grant increased emergency financing to Finambro, a bank owned by Michele Sindona, opening the door to the collapse of Sindona's banking empire and his eventual indictment.
In 1947, during a parliamentary session in Port-au-Prince, two ministers of the government of Dumarsais Estimé informed the parliamentary commission of inquiry that Haiti's participation in the Second World War cost 20 million US dollars to the government.
She was detained from 1993 to 2004 for political activities and again from 2009 to 2014 within the KCK main case.
In the parliament he advocated left radical views on social and agrarian matters similar to those of the Bolsheviks.
He was awarded the Cross of St Louis for his valour and progressed with a military career that took him, eventually, to the rank of a Maréchal de camp.
A beach home outside of San Juan (Puerto Rico) provided a quiet refuge for this work," wrote Franklin Tugwell in his Introduction to the 1978 English publication of Betancourt's book.
Cambon incurred the hatred of the theist Maximilien Robespierre (see Cult of the Supreme Being) by proposing the suppression of the pay to the clergy, which would have meant the separation of church and state.
His parents were Giuseppe Emanuele "Joe" Rosselli (1867–1911) and Amelia Pincherle (1870–1954), who was the paternal aunt to writer Alberto Moravia.
By 15 November the Italians had fled to Bud Bud, ambushed by partisans the whole way and rather diminished in forces and resolve.
Albert Pike (December 29, 1809 – April 2, 1891) was an American author, poet, orator, editor, lawyer, jurist and Confederate States Army general who served as an associate justice of the Arkansas Supreme Court in exile from 1864 to 1865.
While 1973 brought the World Festival of Youth and Students to East Berlin, soon dissident artists such as Wolf Biermann were expelled and the Ministry for State Security raised its efforts to suppress political resistance.
He was a regular visitor to the offices of L'Ordine Nuovo, the newspaper founded by Antonio Gramsci, and became acquainted with Gramsci and Palmiro Togliatti.
An election held in October for a constituent assembly to prepare a draft constitution reflected a lack of public interest in determining the country's political future.
A succession of failed attempts at promoting further uprisings in Sicily, Abruzzi, Tuscany, and Lombardy-Venetia discouraged Mazzini for a long period, which dragged on until 1840.
Political instability continued in Haiti for most of the next eight months, with no one individual (military or civilian) able to dominate.
Negrín accepted the support of Russia, the only country aiding Republican Spain or backing her in the League of Nations.
Lamoneda went to Belgium in 1913 to attend the courses at the International Socialist School where he studied the work by Centrale d’Éducation Ouvrière.
Under his rule, Tunisia consistently ranked near the bottom of most international rankings for human rights and press freedom.
In August 2023 Yanukovych was sanctioned again following the opening of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Early life Amadou Toumani Touré was born on 4 November 1948, in Mopti, where he attended primary school, he is from the Arma subgroup of Songhai people.
The following year, he moved to Puerto Rico without having managed to overcome the thorn of having lost power and regain it from the hands of the man who had staged a coup d'état against him in 1908: his godfather, Juan Vicente Gómez.
Following massive public demonstrations in support of democratic reforms, Pérez was deposed in a coup perpetrated by disgruntled sectors within the Armed Forces of Venezuela on 23 January 1958.
She eventually fled to Germany where she has continued to speak out against human rights abuses in the region.
However, he was released on bail shortly afterwards, and fled Europe to the United States in 1999, fearing retribution from Kuchma after his fall from grace.
Yuriy Kolobov (Ukrainian: Юрій Володимирович Колобов; born 8 April 1973) is a former Minister of Finance of Ukraine.
He also disarmed the rebel forces, while restoring both Regulamentul and its symbols of power, as well as reintroducing slavery.
In 1785 the Auditors of the Imprests were abolished, by an Act of Parliament which appointed in their place a body of five Commissioners for Auditing the Public Accounts.
The spy reported that there was a garrison of 200 soldiers, 400 cannon and a stockpile of ammunition sufficient for a force of 6000 soldiers.
James VI sent Foulis and Robert Jousie to London in July 1589 to buy clothes and ornaments in preparation for his marriage to Anne of Denmark.
All the income derived from this 15,000 acres (61 km2) estate was the private property of the senior maharani, alternatively known as the Senior Rani of Attingal (Attingal Mootha Thampuran).
Purveyance remained the favored method for English kings to obtain food and other necessities for their armies, castles, garrisons, and itinerant households.
From 1547 to 1603, there was no male royal heir to hold the title of duke, and the duchy reverted to the Crown, in effect becoming a department of the Exchequer.
can have nothing but admiration for what is the oldest 'public record' in England and probably the most remarkable statistical document in the history of Europe.
Circumstantial evidence for a more knightly and less mercantile background is provided by the brothers' tutelage under important merchants and subsequent rapid rise, which included close links to the crown.
There is evidence that he took a part in the interrogation of Guy Fawkes in the immediate aftermath of the Gunpowder Plot of 1605.
He kept an account of the king's daily expenses which is an important source document for the Scottish royal court.
(eds.) (2014) Kings, Lords and Men in Scotland and Britain, 1300-1625: Essays in Honour of Jenny Wormald.
The government of the state in the interval between the death of the queen regent and the arrival of Mary, Queen of Scots was entrusted to a body of fourteen chosen from twenty-four persons nominated by parliament, of whom six, including Wishart, were selected by the nobility, and eight by Mary.
During the trip, James VI made him Keeper of the Royal Wardrobe and sacked William Keith of Delny, who had appeared in richer clothing than himself.
Peter Longerich notes that it was not possible to convert the relative success of the referendum into political capital.
In 1590, Scottish diplomats offered drinksilver to town officials in The Hague who brought them notice of a gift of wine, but they refused the money saying they would lose their jobs.
His title is derived from the Privy Purse (an embroidered bag borne by the Keeper at a coronation) which contrasts with his Department's present-day use of computers and up-to-date accounting procedures.
The name Exchequer referred to the resemblance of the table to a chess board (French: échiquier) as it was covered by a black cloth bearing stripes of about the breadth of a human hand in a chequer-pattern.
Exchequer in Scotland The Scottish Exchequer dates to around 1200, with a similar role in auditing and royal revenues as in England.
He apologised for any show of resistance to John Arnot at the end of January, which may have offended King James, "I should sooner have offered to have been buried in the bottom of the work, nor to have [rather than have] meaned to any possession to your majesties miscontentment".
A decrease in the Crown Estate's rental income during the COVID-19 pandemic led to the first use of the provision that prevents the value of the Sovereign Grant from falling, with the Treasury committing to make up the shortfall.
97-117 'The monuments of a family: A collection of jewels associated with Elizabeth of Bohemia', PSAS, 131 (2002), pp.
The layout of these duplicate accounts and the wording of the entries is not an exact replica of the main series.
Foulis was sent to London in June 1591 for the subsidy and requested £14,000, which was refused, and received £4000.
By 1329 the total loans exceeded £13,000, amounts comparable to those provided by the traditional royal financiers, the Bardi of Florence.
Crowe pawned a fabulous gold cup known as the "Dream of Paris" with the Judgement of Paris and his horse modelled on its cover to Nicholas Sohier and Samuel Becker.
The term civil list is no longer commonly used to describe the payment of civil servants in Canada, who are covered in the budgets of executive agencies.
The treasurer-depute Gideon Murray reported on these works to King James in June 1614, writing that the mines had yielded silver, although not at profit, and James should choose payment of his tenth from William Alexander either in "metal" or refined siver.
For example, during a period in which the king was quite ill, the bureau's official announcements provided information about the monarch's condition.
At St Andrews, on 19 May 1540, James V gave 44 shillings to two Dutchmen who played and danced for him on the shore.
He "haldis ane greit hous and is at mair (more) sumpteous expense nor (than) umquhile (the late) our said soverane lord held in his time".
Charles desired to conceal the true aim of his policy, which he knew would be detested by the country, and he accordingly gave as a pretext for the impost the danger to commerce from pirates, and the general condition of unrest in Europe.
While this story may be in part malicious gossip, it shows that some of the subsidy money was spent in London.
Cunningham continued to administer revenue from Wales and duchy lands for Charles I as king: in 1633 he paid Thomas Howard, 1st Earl of Berkshire £100 for keeping horses for Charles.
The increasing use of mercenaries in the 12th century would also make a money payment of greater use to the crown.
Funding to the Royal Household is treated similarly to funding for other government departments, unlike previous Civil List payments.
In the early 1880s Radical MPs warned that Parliament would soon be asked to support “more than a score” of Queen Victoria’s grandchildren, and pressed for a select committee to examine both the Crown’s private resources and the extent of any parliamentary obligation to provide for royal children.
Lord Salisbury supported the creation of a single annual grant, which he felt would avoid the embarrassment of parliamentary debates and newspaper coverage which had arisen each time that a one-off addition to the Civil list had been addressed for each of the Queen's children.
Taxation through scutage became a prominent cause among the many that led to the rebellion of 1215, which culminated in the proclamation of Magna Carta of 1215.
The financial needs of the Seven Years' War led to a second (1756–1780), and then a third (1760–1763) "vingtième" being created.
Kello's loan of £4,000 was one of the larger contributions, and the merchant Jacob Baron had invested £14,822 Scots.
He was elected a liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths, one of the Livery Companies or craft guilds of the City of London, in 1558.
The historian Julian Goodare noted that Athol Murray had carefully explained the story of John Acheson, a Scottish goldsmith and mining entrepreneur.
Jewels and the Duchess of Lennox Joseph Mead related a story of life at court in May 1622, concerning Frances Stewart, Duchess of Lennox, the third wife of Esmé Stewart's son Ludovic Stewart, 2nd Duke of Lennox.
On his return, John Martin married Mary Brandon (born 1566), daughter of Robert Brandon, Chamberlain of London, on 23 May 1586 at St Vedast, Foster Lane.
It was in the 16th century, the office's title of King's Treasurer developed into Lord High Treasurer.
In 1619 Jean Drummond gave a gunmaker in Dundee £3 Scots in drinksilver when he was making pistols for her husband the Earl of Roxburghe, even though the Constable of Dundee had commissioned them as a gift.
Upon assuming his kingly duties, it was with Fouquet in mind that Louis XIV made the well known statement that he would be his own chief minister.
Baldwin's The Scutage and Knight Service in England (1897), a dissertation printed at the University of Chicago Press, offers a major monograph on the subject (though not wholly free from error).
In the past some other members of the British royal family also received funding in the form of parliamentary annuities.
Philip II gave his son Philippe Hurepel the county of Clermont, then the counties of Domfront and Mortain.
Everything was done that could be done by him to win a verdict for the King against the six ministers and it is said that he "brought plenty of money with him to purchase a verdict".
Francis I granted the Duchies of Orléans, Angoulême, and Châtellerault and the Counties of Clermont-en-Beauvaisis and La Marche to his second surviving son, Charles in 1540.
Georges Duby indicates this means a mill for every 46 peasant households and implies a great increase in the consumption of baked bread in place of boiled and unground porridge.
This demand gave rise to popular discontent, which now began to see a determination on the part of the king to dispense altogether with parliamentary government.
According to the author of the Historie and Life of King James the Sext the money had been lodged with the towns to give the queen an annual income, and James was urged to spend it by corrupt advisors to offset his expenditure on "unnecessary" armed troops.
The tax was imposed on each household and was based on how much land it held, and was paid directly to the state.
This means police are barred from searching the Queen's private estates for stolen or looted artefacts.
The English diplomat Thomas Randolph mentions this cabinet as a space to which he was not admitted, where the queen withdrew to write letters and to weep.
John II 'the Good', on his departure to England in 1360, granted the Duchies of Anjou and of Maine to his second son Louis.
Before long this secondary role of the Exchequer (its function as a court of law) began to predominate.
Louis XIV suppressed the two already existing positions holding the title of Controller-General as he wanted to replace these with a sole homonym office with cabinet rank in charge of all the finances and taxes of France.
The Duchy of Lancaster is not subject to tax, but the monarch has voluntarily paid both income and capital gains tax since 1993.
His imprisonment lasted 37 years until his death in 1539; Richard de la Pole (1480–24 February 1525), another Yorkist pretender in succession to John and Edmund.
In this system, Parliament was responsible for the finances of the state, including paying the Crown the Civil List allowance to meet the sovereign's official expenses.
A civil list is a list of individuals to whom money is paid by the government, typically for service to the state or as honorary pensions.
An account for building a bridge over the River Tay mentions bibalia given to two blacksmiths Alastair and Andrew Smith and their workers.
In 1461, King Edward IV confirmed that the Duchy would be inherited by the monarch, but held separately from the Crown Estate, the other assets which belong to the monarch.
One of the most famous people to hold this position was the chronicler João de Barros, who was appointed feitor in 1532.
Such certificate then formed the basis for the king to issue a writ to the custodian of the land in question to release it to the heir, who then obtained seizin.
Masons working on the building of George Heriot's School in the 1620s were given drinksilver at the laying of the foundations, the start of work on the first stairwell or turnpike, and the completing of an entablature or "ledgement" around the building.
Impact and legacy The act applied only during the lifetime of Queen Victoria; upon his accession as King Edward VII in 1901, financial provision for the new King's children was established under the Civil List Act 1901.
James VI attended the Exchequer in person in Edinburgh on 13 February 1595, which pleased courtiers who wished to see him manage his estate.
Although in some cases, there were more votes cast than in the petition for a referendum, the support from the agricultural parts of the country (especially east of the Elbe) was again below average.
In particular, it includes the numbers of livestock on the home farms (demesnes) of lords, but not peasant livestock.
The Treasurer's income was based "casualties" rather than the feudal rent and duties collected by the Comptroller.
His lands may have been at "Drynne", "Drymmie" or Drymme, also known as "Drum", in Maryton parish near Montrose in Angus, Scotland.
In January 1554, Henri Cleutin considered the need to increase revenue from Scottish fisheries and mines in the context of the marriage of Mary, Queen of Scots.
"The Collection of Ship-money in the Reign of Charles I." Transactions of the Royal Historical Society 4 (1910): 141–162.
In the 13th and early-14th century the same official was referred to interchangeably as the King's Treasurer and Treasurer of the Exchequer.
Although he was formally a minor German Prince, he was the son of a British Princess, Princess Mary Adelaide of Cambridge, and had been raised in the United Kingdom.
These volumes were kept for many years by the family of the Earl of Leven and Melville, and were deposited in the National Archives of Scotland in 1944.
The accounts of the purse of James V include many gratuities given to servants, especially to those who brought food gifts.
Refusal, then repeal Ship money enabled Charles to meet peacetime government expenditures in the 1630s.
On 2 July 1889, Queen Victoria formally submitted requests to the Prime Minister for financial provision to be made from the Civil List for Prince Albert Victor and Princess Louise.
In 1609 George Wishart of Drymme and his son George, the feuar of Drymme, owed 2000 merks to a London-based tailor, Andrew Balfour.
Exempted from the tax were clergy and nobles (except for non-noble lands they held in "pays d'état" [see below]), officers of the crown, military personnel, magistrates, university professors and students, and franchises (villes franches) such as Paris.
The current system is intended to be a more permanent arrangement than the previous one, which was reign-specific.
On attainment of his majority at the age of 21, a proof of age inquisition would be held, resulting in a certification witnessed by prominent men from his local area who certified that he had reached the age of 21.
In 1307 significant repairs were undertaken to the palace (during which time the Exchequer sat in Westminster Abbey).
Regent Lennox would later ask John Sempill to return jewels and furs belonging to Mary to him, including sable and marten furs or zibellini.
Atkinson may have got this story from the prospector George Bowes, whose father Sir George Bowes was involved with the acquisition of a portrait of James VI in 1579.
The musician and valet of the queen's chamber James Lauder was paid £125 Scots towards his pension and fee.
The monarch is also responsible for using the Sovereign Grant to pay the wages of 431 of the approximately 1,200 Royal Household staff, amounting to £18.2 million in 2014–15.
Sir William Bowyer visited in July and thought the vein was as impressive as anything he had seen in Germany.
Royal costume and jewelry Michael Gilbert and his former apprentice Foulis provided rings and other jewels for James VI to give to courtiers as New Year's Day gifts.
A spokesperson for the Queen said: "Queen's Consent is a parliamentary process, with the role of sovereign purely formal.
There are on record at least three instances in which the prince overruled the king by instructing his officials to ignore or disobey orders issued to them by the King's Chancery.
In 2012, work began on a 174-home development at Tregunnel Hill, southwest of Newquay, referred to locally as "Surfbury", after the Poundbury project in Dorset.
In addition to those cabinet posts, he had also several important posts as administration chief, such as Surintendant des Manufactures et Bâtiments du Roi (Superintendent of the King's Manufacturers and Buildings; 1664–1683).
In Skien he was arrested, the police finding it suspicious that someone would attempt to sell silver at such a low price.
The Grand Chamberlain of Brunei announced the newborn prince of Deputy Sultan, Crown Prince of Brunei.
By the outbreak of the Revolution, there were 36 généralités; the last two were created as recently as 1784.
See also British royal family Civil list Sovereign Grant Act 2011 Finances of the British royal family Notes References External links Text of the Prince of Wales’s Children Act 1889 as in force today (including any amendments) at legislation.gov.uk.
He provided silver plate for the use of Mary, Queen of Scots, including a silver gilt bowl and cover in 1585, decorated with an engraved pattern of fish.
Technically, it is the office of Treasurer of the Exchequer that is put into commission, not the office of Lord High Treasurer; when the office of Treasurer of the Exchequer is put into commission, the office of Lord High Treasurer is left vacant.
Posts Some of the principal posts known by this name: Austria Kammerherr, or Kämmerer (with a charge of finances, treasury) Brunei Grand Chamberlain of The Councils of Brunei titled as Yang Amat Mulia Pengiran Penggawa Laila Bentara Istiadat Diraja Dalam Istana.
Other members of the government, usually whips in the House of Commons, are similarly appointed to serve as the Junior Lords Commissioners of the Treasury.
He could arrest and sell the goods of anyone who defaulted their due payments, or imprison them as debtors, or proclaim them "at horn", technically rebels to the crown and no longer credit-worthy.
In fact, James commanded Hamilton to come to London, bringing his charters for the mine, on 11 February, ten weeks after sending his commissioners north in November.
17th century After the Union of the Crowns, George Bowes worked with Bulmer, who eventually acquired his mining interests.
The resulting "Books of Assumption" is a record of the wealth of the church of Scotland at the Reformation and reveals the names of many secular or laymen owners who then owned former ecclesiastic properties.
Clerks and officers issuing royal charters under the Great Seal of Scotland were forbidden in 1597 from requesting drinksilver, but could accept it when offered by the clients or parties.
The sovereign is not entitled to the Duchy's capital, but the net revenues of the Duchy are the property of the sovereign in right of the Duchy of Lancaster.
At the time of handover, quit rents totalled £23,418 (equal to £1 million today) and rent from property £1,191 (equal to £62,000 today).
The negotiations between the governments of each state and the royal houses were protracted because of the differing views on the level of compensation.
In December 1540 he was given money "for his bounteth, and to buy him clothes, because he got never none of before".
Bounties include payments made or promised to new domestic servants when they were hired, made in addition to their yearly fees.
In April the English army reached Edinburgh, and Wishart was prominent in welcoming it and promising co-operation.
Subjects include the administration known as the Octavians, and the annual sums of money which Elizabeth I gave James VI of Scotland, which he argues ought to be known as the English subsidy.
Around the time she was made to abdicate, William Maitland of Lethington and Mary Fleming sent her a gold jewel or ring depicting the lion and mouse of Aesop's fable.
An English courtier in Scotland Roger Aston described events at the end of December 1595 in a letter to James Hudson: "The queen's council joins with the prior (Alexander Seton) and other of the king's council for the reformation of the king's particular affairs".
A review of the Civil List Act 1979 was undertaken by the Law Commission from 2007 to 2010; eventually the Act was repealed in two stages.
Hamilton stated that he was continuing the work at Hilderston to the king's benefit (the king received 10% and other benefits), although several miners had left due to an outbreak of plague.
On 28 December, Mar returned a cross set with seven diamonds and two rubies, a hat string with 89 diamonds, and the "feather" jewel to wear in a hat made in the shape of a capital letter "A" (for Anne of Denmark) made with 110 diamonds, with other pieces.
According to Roger Aston, he criticised inefficient exchequer officers who failed to maximise his revenues, forcing him to raise loans or tax his subjects.
Philip Jacobson, the court jeweller, appraised more items to be pawned with or by Philip Calandrini in June 1629, including the two "great halfround pearls" from the Mirror of Great Britain.
Only the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh and the Queen Mother ever received direct funding from the Civil List.
The CPB's fully owned subsidiary, Siam Sindhorn, opened a condo in 2017, selling units at twice the market price.
The reissued Charter of 1217 provided, instead of this, that scutage levies should remain at the rate as of the reign of Henry II.
He founded the de la Pole family, Earls of Lincoln, Earls of Suffolk and Dukes of Suffolk, which by his mercantile and financial prowess he raised from relative obscurity to one of the primary families of the realm in a single generation.
The revenues were paid to the Treasurer of the Chamber, that is to say the king's private funds, not into the Treasury.
The Almoxarife or Recebedor dos Armazéns, was the customs-collector, a highly-profitable job that was once held by Bartolomeu Dias in the mid-1490s.
From 1495 to 1521 the Portuguese Crown bought in Antwerp, then the center of international trade, approximately 5,200 tonnes copper mainly from the Fugger of Hungary (Thurzo-Fugger company), which was shipped mostly to India.
Overview The Duchy is a landed estate of approximately 46,000 acres (200 square kilometres) held in trust for the sovereign since 1399.
Later, at supper after a wedding, Randolph heard Mary toast Elizabeth as "De Bon Coeur", meaning of good heart or "willingly".
This includes the costs of the upkeep of the various royal residences, staffing, travel and state visits, public engagements, and official entertainment.
Over a third of the Royal estate was in disrepair by 2012–13 according to a report by the Public Accounts Committee.
He wrote that Dunbar was a weak and ungrateful character who made few friends, and no one could understand why he received the king's favour.
De Vos made contracts for mines and making salt with Mary, Queen of Scots, and her two husbands, Lord Darnley and Bothwell.
Later developments (14th-17th centuries) Venue In the year 1300 the location of the Exchequer (which had formerly sat in other places from time to time) was permanently fixed at the Royal Palace of Westminster.
The act categorised royal assets into two types: Assets eligible for tax exemption Assets eligible for tax payment On 19 July 1937, the Royal Assets Structuring Act of 1936 became effective.
Palaces The bureau is responsible for promoting and maintaining three different royal palaces: Grand Palace Dusit Palace Bang Pa-In Royal Palace Public relations Some of the public relations of the monarchy are handled by officials of this bureau.
Being convinced that he was a thief, he was given the choice between telling where he had found the silver, or being sentenced to hard labour.
Two Fife lairds, Andrew Balfour of Montquhanie and Patrick Learmonth of Dairsie, who had made loans to Grange and charged interest, were ordered to surrender the jewels pledged to them.
A sixteenth-century locket with a cameo vignette of the crucifixion and on the other side, the Assumption of Mary, is said have been her gift to Thomas Andrews, Sheriff of Northampton, shortly before her execution at Fotheringhay Castle.
As the role of the government increased in the 18th century, the Public Purse was increasingly unable to raise enough to fund the development of the country.
The provisions relating to the Governor-General were repealed and replaced by the Governor-General Act 2010 and the remaining provisions were repealed and replaced by the Members of Parliament (Remuneration and Services) Act 2013.
Separate levies of scutage received the names of the campaigns for which they were raised, as "the scutage of Toulouse" (or "great scutage"), "the scutage of Ireland", and so forth.
1481: Charles IV, Duke of Anjou, Count of Maine, Guise, Mortain and Gien, who succeeded his uncle René I of Anjou as Duke of Anjou and Count of Provence and Forcalquier, dies, bequeathing his lands to his cousin Louis XI.
Cardinal Richelieu died in 1642, but Fouquet was successful in impressing his successor as chief minister, Cardinal Mazarin, who became his protector (over the long term, the relationship was tense:59–60).
One "English lady" who visited Scotland gave him a copy of the Geneva Bible, an edition which the King did not approve of.
The revenues from these hereditary possessions have been placed by the monarch at the disposition of His Majesty's Government in exchange for relief from the responsibility to fund the Civil Government.
The master originally was required to declare his accounts orally to the king's own person four times a year, which in 1531 was altered to require the rendering of such accounts to general surveyors.
The latter took the oaths of each respective office, after which his patent was delivered to him and he took his place alongside the Barons.
From 1667 to 1682 the Treasury was in commission, and again from 1686 to 1708, when the separate Scottish Treasury was abolished.
Wedding gift James VI gave lands to Anne of Denmark as a wedding gift, including the former properties of Dunfermline Abbey.
The level of the Sovereign Grant is protected by law from decreasing as a result of falling Crown Estate revenues.
In 1508 he was "Great Purveyor to the Queen" or "Magnus Provisor", in charge of purchasing food and other items for the household of Margaret Tudor, the wife of James IV.
Finances Since its inception, the Sovereign Grant has often risen each year at a rate higher than the rate of inflation.
William was increasingly in the service of the king during the 1330s, both acquiring supplies as well as providing ships for his wars with the Scots, and commissioning and commandeering ships for the dynastic dispute with France that became known as the Hundred Years War.
For example, as Regent, Mary of Guise paid for her stable, costume, and wardrobe separately and these expenses do not occur in her treasurer's accounts.
The family's fortunes changed with the loss of the English throne by the House of York in the late 15th century.
Andrew George, Liberal Democrat MP for St Ives, commented that "The duchy asserts that it is merely a private estate.
Collection Efficient tax collection was one of the major causes for French administrative and royal centralization in the Early Modern period.
These nominal standards were, however, only infrequently enforced on the localities around the kingdom.
Throughout the 15th and 16th centuries, the Casa da Índia rapidly grew into an economically powerful institution that played a crucial role in the financing of Portuguese discoveries and expeditions throughout West Africa, East Africa, the Middle East, India, and the East Indies.
(1953), An Introduction to the History and Records of the Court of Wards and Liveries, Cambridge University Press.
He said in public on the High Street of Edinburgh that the Earls of Bothwell and Arran were agreed, and so Knox's time was run.
Amalgamation with Office of Liveries The office of "Surveyor of the King's Liveries" was in existence between 1514 and 1542, when the office was joined to the Court of Wards, becoming the "King's Court of Wards and Liveries".
7) allowed the Treasury to review the level of the payment every ten years, but only allowed for increases and not reductions.
Princess Margaret married the second in line to the Swedish Throne, Prince Gustaf Adolf, Duke of Scania, in 1905.
William Herrick and John Spilman made and refurbished jewels for James and Anne of Denmark in 1603 and 1604.
This may be the cupboard of silver plate which James VI took to Norway, in Maitland's keeping, from which he gave gifts to Steen Brahe and Axel Gyldenstierne on 15 December 1589.
However, according to the Venetian ambassador, Antonio Foscarini, King James gave away the queen's wardrobe, richly embroidered with pearls and gold, to a Scottish lord (meaning George Home), and disposed of many of Elizabeth's jewels.
Bulmer seems to describe the rising of the Bellgall and Longcleuch streams in a letter of November 1606, as locations at the "head of two several brooks".
In 1538 Mosman made a hat badge featuring a mermaid, set with diamonds, from the "Kingis awne gold".
Regent Arran gave drinksilver to the tailor of Mary of Guise who made the wedding clothes of his daughter Barbara in January 1548.
The Casas were overseen by the same director and the same three treasurers (tesoreiros) - one for receiving goods, one for the sale of goods, and a third to handle everything else.
Drinksilver was a kind of tip or gratuity given to artisans in Early Modern Scotland, a sum of money suitable for buying drinks and celebrating.
It had an Italian motto A chi basto l'animo, non mancano la forze, – to those with enough spirit, there is no shortage of strength.
Mary of Guelders gave 20 shillings to masons at the College of St Salvator at the University of St Andrews in 1461.
From 1969 he made voluntary tax payments of 50% of the profits, but this reduced to 25% in 1981 when he married Lady Diana Spencer.
The cassette contained incriminating documents that had been found after his arrest; they were hidden behind a mirror in Fouquet's estate near Paris.
Pursemaster As pursemaster he daily accompanied the king, paying his small debts and handing over the sums the king gave in alms or as tips (known as drinksilver) to workmen and beggars.
The County of Champagne is reunited to the royal domain (made official in 1361) 1285–1295: purchase of the County of Guînes from Count Arnould III who needed money to pay a ransom.
John Heath (1614–1691) (1643 – 1646) Usher Marmaduke Servant (c.1578-1605) (died 1605) Messenger Leonard Taylor (1565-c.1595) Clerks Edward Latymer (1594 – 1602) See also William Paulet, 1st Marquess of Winchester, first Master of the Court Notes Sources Aldrich, Richard (1982).
Purveyance for military purposes was discontinued in 1362, with the right itself finally abolished in 1660.
Plague-cleansers working in Stirling in January 1646 charged for disinfecting pairs of plaids and other textiles, at rates fixed by the burgh council "and no further to be taken, nor yet any drink silver".
In its place, he said, "the Royal Household will receive a new Sovereign Support Grant linked to a portion of the revenue of the Crown Estate".
The French ambassador, Boderie, sent an agent, Robert le Maçon, Sieur de la Fontaine, who had known George Bruce of Carnock for 20 years, to inspect the mines and countryside in October 1608.
John Stewart of Tarlair, with his son William, were licensed to mine for gold and other metals north of the River Tay to Orkney in March 1546.
History Under Edwards I–III Prise, an ancient right of the English court, permitted the customary purchase of food.
Crown Estate Scotland The Scotland Act 2016 allowed the Scottish Government to take control of a portfolio of assets totalling £272 million ($339.6 million) after a devolved Scottish Crown Estate was established, including the rights to develop marine energy projects in the country.
Significant rewards and purchases An English poet and the Highland genealogy An English poet named "Mr Breton" who visited the Scottish court in 1588 or 1589 and received a gift of £160 Scots may have been Nicholas Breton.
On 17 February 1565, at Wemyss Castle, Mary made Cagnioli her "argentar", in charge of her personal expenses.
In the event that the heir is a minor, 10% of the revenues will pass to the heir, with the balance passing to the Crown.
He was also deprived of his judicial office, but on 18 January 1574 he was reappointed an extraordinary lord of session, and on 20 March took his seat in the privy council.
He also oversees the grant-in-aid from the Royal Household for the maintenance of the occupied royal palaces and for royal travel.
The Act also established a Master of Metals as a crown officer, a position held from June 1592 by Lord Menmuir.
After a sermon given by Walter Balcanquhall in St Giles, the congregation came out crying "the sword of Gideon" and some rioters called for arms.
Butte completed a residency in pediatrics and a fellowship in pediatric endocrinology, both at Children's Hospital Boston.
Themes in her research include supporting informal collaboration and awareness in office environments, enabling creative work and visual communication, and augmenting social processes for managing personal information.
Still, during those years from 1988 through 2001, he authored only one publication in that journal concerning smoking or tobacco, and only then tangentially.
He was an early advocate for patient empowerment, urging patients to educate themselves, to assume control of their own health care, and to use the Internet as a way of accomplishing those goals.
Allyn Taylor International Prize in Medicine (1987), Gairdner Foundation International Award (1993), and an honorary Doctor of Science degree from McGill University (1997).
Early years and education Andrew Balas was born in Budapest as the third child of Balás Gábor, an attorney, journal editor and historian.
He was the founding director of the Anesthesia Fellowship in Biomedical Informatics at the Massachusetts General Hospital.
{{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) [1] (xxiv+835+1 pages) Ledley, Robert Steven; Lusted, Lee B.
Education Sittig earned a bachelor's degree in science and a master's degree in biomedical engineering before he trained in medical informatics at the University of Utah School of Medicine and the LDS Hospital under Reed M.
His health AI research program has been continuously funded by multiple grants from the National Institutes of Health for more than 25 years.
She began her academic career as an assistant professor of industrial engineering at The College of New Jersey from 1993 to 1996.
"'There Are Too Many, but Never Enough': Qualitative Case Study Investigating Routine Coding of Clinical Information in Depression".
Subsequently, he served as Dean of the Saint Louis University School of Public Health and later Dean of the College of Health Sciences at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Virginia.
Grace Murray Hopper Award (Distinguished computer scientist under age 30), Association for Computing Machinery, October 1976.
In 1973 Van Bemmel stopped working for TNO and was appointed as professor of medical informatics at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam.
162-173 Elliot MJ, Kalra D, Singleton P and Smith D, Practical Privacy Controls when Re-using Medical Data for Research, Journal of Healthcare Information Management, 2014, vol.28(4), p.
In 2010, Istepanian won IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine, 2009 Outstanding Paper Award for his paper called 'Introduction to the Special Section on M-Health: Beyond Seamless Mobility and Global Wireless Health-Care Connectivity'.
Medical and health informatics career In 1970, Schuster gained his Approbation, or license to practice, at St Joseph's Hospital in Bremerhaven on the coast of the North Sea.
Teuvo Peltoniemi (born 1950) is a Finnish writer, journalist, researcher, educator, and eHealth developer specialized on addictions.
She has been quoted in a number of major newspapers, including The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, and the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
He was on the steering committee of a policy report for the Office of the National Coordinator on Health Information Technology to create a national framework for clinical decision support.
Following their return to London, Jane began working part-time at the Institute for Social Sciences in Medical Care.
She has also contributed foundational studies on how computing systems can support mental well-being, and the consideration of human well-being as an integral part of technology design.
A method to value software intangibles based on balancing initial and maintenance efforts to allocate income in 2005.
In 1980 he founded one of the earliest formal degree programs in biomedical informatics at Stanford University, emphasizing a rigorous and experimentalist approach.
With a dedicated focus on junior faculty development and the physician-scientist career pathway, under Garcia's leadership, the department of Medicine experienced a 200% increase in the number of individually awarded NIH career awards (K-Series).
Using the grant, she would design and conduct an evaluation of the CEC Initiative using a combination of data from sources including claims, surveys, clinical quality measures, medical records, and market information.
Early life and education Kamel Boulos attended the Jesuit Collège de la Sainte Famille in Cairo and then studied at Ain Shams University.
September 28, 2000 Johns Hopkins Communication in Contemporary Society Program website Edmunds M and Chambers S.
Additionally, she leads the WI-TECNE project, a statewide nursing faculty development effort supported by HRSA that aims to improve the integration of informatics and telehealth into nursing curricula.
He obtained a bachelor's degree from Reed College in Portland, Oregon and a master's degree in creative writing from San Francisco State University.
University of Utah Warner and his associates taught computer applications to medicine at the University of Utah, with the Department of Biophysics and Bioengineering being formally established in 1964 within the College of Engineering.
From 2000 to 2008, he was working group chair for the WG Consumer Health Informatics of the International Medical Informatics Association.
Her work in healthcare has led to invited lectures at Google, Cornell University, and IBM Research among others.
Selected academic publications Shared decision making: examining key elements and barriers to adoption into routine clinical practice.
During his tenure as chair (2005 - 2009) Garcia led the strategic growth of the University of Chicago's largest department.
The report was used as a briefing and reference document for members of Congress and the Gore presidential campaign, and was widely covered by the media, including The New York Times.
Under his leadership, research funding exceeded $80 million annually with the Department's national ranking for federal research rising from #25 to #10 (2005 - 2009).
His original idea for a patient problem list was adapted and put into law in the “meaningful use” requirements of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act, which promoted the adoption of electronic health records in the United States.
A RHIA certification is a preferred qualification for positions including health information management director, clinical documentation improvement professional (CDIP), and registered health information administrator.
As a surgeon, he was instrumental in the adoption and development of ambulatory surgery in the early 1970s and was team physician for the Wisconsin Badgers for ten years while also serving as president of the medical staff.
Duncan is a biostatistician and health informatics specialist, who was named a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery in 2000.
By December 2020, 10,000 patients (76% of the patient population) had full access to their GP electronic health records and a better understanding of their healthcare needs.
He has also served as guest editor of three special issues of the IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine (on seamless mobility for healthcare and m-health systems, 2005) and IEEE Transactions of NanoBioScience (on Microarray Image Processing, 2004).
These AI-powered surveillance systems have been shown to improve early intervention rates and patient outcomes in intensive care and emergency settings.
Istepanian is a visiting professor at the Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Global Health Innovation, Imperial College, London.
In this role, she would assist in making policy recommendations on the development and adoption of a nationwide health information infrastructure.
"Behavioral Management of Neurologically-involved Patients", Topics in Neurology, Postgraduate Advances in Physical Therapy.
Sabbatini, R.M.E.; Cardoso, S.H.: Internet-2 Based Tele/Videoconferencing for Distance Medical Education: The EduMed.
He served as medical director for advocacy and health policy of the American College of Surgeons from 2011 to 2013.
He is also an elected member or fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence, American Society for Clinical Investigation, the Association of American Physicians, and the American Clinical and Climatological Association.
Ancker, Associate Professor at Weill Cornell Medicine, in 2016 for her work titled, "Expanding access to high-quality plain-language patient education information through context-specific hyperlinks." Dr.
As Starkweather pursued his voice-quality research, he created a real-time pitch spectrum analyzer that could generate a 20-band pitch spectrum every two seconds from voice recordings.
Marion Jokl Ball is a South African-born American scientist, educator, and leader in global Biomedical and Health Informatics.
She became a member of the Belgian College of Pharmaceutical Medicine (BCPM) in 2001 and a Specialist in Health Database Management (Belgian Health Ministry) in 2003.
During his time at the University of Utah, Warner guided over 200 students through the process of earning their PhDs, in addition to those he taught in the classroom and the lab.
In April 2012, Butte delivered a TEDMED talk describing his lab's development of techniques using massive amount of publicly available biomedical research data to make new discoveries without running a wet-lab and actually outsourcing experiments using assaydepot.com.
2016 Edward Livingston Trudeau Medal from the American Thoracic Society 2015 Tucson Hispanic Center of Excellence La Estrella Award 2015 American Thoracic Society Leadership Award for Pulmonary Circulation 2011 Elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies.
At the IOM, she directed studies on health insurance and access to care and provided testimony on children's coverage to the U.S.
Early life and education Adler-Milstein was born and raised in San Francisco and also spent much time growing up at a family home in Sonoma, California.
At Augusta University, his subsequent service as Dean launched new programs, increased funded research and expanded services to the community.
Professor Istepanian is currently the co-chair of the ITU working group on M2M service layer standardization of e-health applications.
"Contribution of Clinical Archetypes, and the Challenges, towards Achieving Semantic Interoperability for EHRs".
This ground-breaking work set the stage for the growth of the new field of academic study called medical informatics.
Career Herasevich is recognized for his contributions to clinical informatics and critical care medicine, particularly in the development and implementation of health information technology (HIT) solutions.
Ash is currently the chair of the Board of Scientific Counselors for the Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical Communications.
Warner award The award was created by the Object Management Group (OMG), self described as "an international, open membership, not-for-profit computer industry consortium".
2010 with GK Savova, JJ Masanz, PV Ogren, J Zheng, S Sohn, KC Kipper-Schuler, Mayo clinical Text Analysis and Knowledge Extraction System (cTAKES): architecture, component evaluation and applications, in: Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association.
As part of the move, Ledley was appointed to Georgetown University’s faculty as a professor of radiology, physiology, and biophysics.
From 1991 through 1994 Wiederhold served as a program manager at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).
In May 2003, on the initiative of the Bonn City Council, and in the presence of Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul and members of the Schuster family, a building at 201, Kaiserstrasse, was renamed the Dr.
Previously he worked in the School of Communication at Northwestern University and before that was a faculty member in the Penn State College of Information Sciences and Technology, and the School of Management and Information Systems at the University of Missouri-Rolla.
In 1984 he worked for the Registry of the European Dialysis and Transplant Association (London, UK).
Biography and career Shortliffe grew up in Edmonton, Alberta, until his family moved to Connecticut when he was 6.
He is investigator and co-investigator of many EPSRC and EU research grants on wireless telemedicine and other research /visiting grants from the British Council and Royal Society and the Royal Academy of Engineering.
He has written and edited a number of research articles, books, book chapters, and monographs on these topics.
program, she co-chaired the first formative committee that charted the possibilities for a new human-centric Ph.D.
Honors Weed was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences in May 1972 and would later receive the Gustav O.
Professional affiliations and honors He has received academic honors from: The Ceylon College of Physicians (P.
While there, he studied patients with rheumatic fever and challenged the belief that proper treatment after an early diagnosis kept those patients from developing severe heart disease later in life.
This included creating a $300 million academic endowment to be used at the UA discretion to support research and other academic pursuits, $150 million to clear UAHN debt and $500 million in capital improvements over five years.
She is Professor Emerita, Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing and Affiliate Professor, Division of Health Sciences Informatics, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
Education and career Feinstein was born in Philadelphia, Feinstein received his bachelor's degree (BSc 1947) and master's degree (MSc, 1948) in mathematics at the University of Chicago.
He is a professor emeritus in Biomedical Informatics at the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston and Executive Director of the Clinical Informatics Research Collaborative (CIRCLE).
After receiving an AB in applied mathematics magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1970, he received an M.D.
In response, he created the problem-oriented medical record (POMR), a method for documenting patient information.
Richards became Professor of Medical Informatics at Manchester University and latterly Emeritus Professor in the School of Computer Science.
Experts Committee and panel member for the Joint Dutch government (STW) and Philips partnership programme on ‘Healthy Life Style Solutions, 2011.
From 2001 to 2005, she was selected to be the associate director of the GVU Center at Georgia Tech, and in 2005 she was appointed director.
The Council issued two major reports, Toward Independence and On the Threshold of Independence, to further the effort along.
Additionally, his writing has appeared in a number of other media outlets including The New York Times, Time, The Guardian, MIT Technology Review, STAT, and HuffPost.
For Ledley, working with SEAC produced an epiphany, concerning both his career and the potential importance of computers to biomedical research.
He obtained his MRCP after completing his postgraduate training in the UK and returned to Sri Lanka.
Reporting only to the President of the University of Illinois, he oversaw a $1.5 billion enterprise in total annual clinical operating revenues and expenses.
In 2015, Doctor Feldman received the Shils Innovator Award for her outstanding leadership as an educator and her commitment to training tomorrow's dental care providers.
Homer Warner and his colleagues, Intermountain has an outstanding legacy on which to build all of its future information systems.
Health Technology Center After CareScience, Brailer took an advisory role at Health Technology Center, a non-profit research and education organization that provides strategic information and resources to health care organizations about the future impact of technology in health care delivery.
Julie Anne Jacko is an American scholar of health informatics who works at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland as Chair of Health Informatics and Data Science, Chief Academic Officer of the Usher Institute, and Dean of Innovation and Engagement in the College of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine.
In 2011, he was rated among Sri Lanka's most prolific scientists in terms of number of publications, according to the Web of Science database.
He was named a fellow of the American College of Medical Informatics in 1984, a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in 1991, and fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) in 1995.
Other honorary awards include the 2001 College of Computing's Junior Faculty Research award and the 2003 College of Computing's Dean's Award.
Her current research explores the implications and opportunities stemming from the pervasive presence of computation in the informal activities of everyday life.
In January 2017, Garcia changed his focus to continuing his innovative clinical and translational research and to serve as Founder and CEO of Aqualung Therapeutics and Restore Therapeutics, companies focused on the high mortality rate in clinical illnesses.
In 2023 he won the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA) Donald Eugene Detmer Award for Health Policy Contributions in Informatics.
As of 2018, Deshpande was the chief executive officer of NuMedii, an artificial intelligence technology company.
The system integrates real-time patient data, streamlining information presentation to enhance situational awareness and prevent medical errors.
Ball combined academic appointments with leadership positions in the computer and consulting industry.
In 2009 a RHIA-certified professional in New York City would earn from $45,000 to $75,000 with a bachelor's degree, and up to $100,000 with a master's degree.
House of Representatives Subcommittee on Select Education, to be coordinator of the newly formed, Congressional Task Force on the Rights and Empowerment of Americans with Disabilities.
Wiederhold and his wife Voy developed historical exhibits in Stanford's Computer Science Building in cooperation with the Computer Museum History Center, now the Computer History Museum in Mountain View.
Utopian emigration Kohti parempaa maailmaa – suomalaiset ihanneyhteisöt 1700-luvulta nykypäivään (Towards a better world: Finnish Utopian Settlements from the 1700s till today).
She is a Professor of Medicine and Director of the Center for Clinical Informatics and Improvement Research at the University of California, San Francisco.
He will be remembered for his outstanding leadership, his vision and passion for transforming access to medical information, and as a civil servant who was committed to excellence, transparency, integrity, and public trust." Lindberg died on August 17, 2019.
Lee is the founder and executive director of Public Health Informatics, Computational, and Operations Research (PHICOR) which builds and utilizes computer models to understand and address issues in health, including the COVID-19 pandemic.
De Moor (born 25 August 1953, Ostend, Belgium) is a Belgian medical doctor, clinical pathologist and has been head of the Department of Health Informatics and Medical Statistics of the University of Ghent.
Model-based transformation of relational database information into object-oriented representations (1986).
Major accomplishments Garcia has been continuously funded by the NIH since 1988 (principal investigator of multiple program project grants, R01s, etc.).
Invited speaker: ‘Talking Health: The Role of Bio-Communications in emerging personalised mobile healthcare Systems’, IET- Solent Lecture, University of Southampton, 15th, March 2007.
Electronic Health Records for Clinical Research (EHR4CR) – 2011-2016 €16m This public-private research project, involving 35 partners from academia and 10 Pharma companies.
"Helly" Orthner (March 27, 1941 – March 16, 2009) was a pioneering American scientist in the field of medical informatics.
The National Library of Medicine adopted PILOT as its primary computer language for the dissemination and exchange of computer-based instructional materials in the health sciences, and used it for instructing medical librarians in using MEDLINE.
"He urged patients to educate themselves and share knowledge with one another, and urged doctors to collaborate with patients rather than command them.
Cimino currently serves as Professor of Medicine, inaugural Director of the Informatics Institute, and Informatics Director for the Center for Clinical and Translational Science at the UAB School of Medicine.
Early career Wiederhold worked on computations of short-range missile trajectories at NATO's Air Defense Technical Center (SADTC) in Wassenaar near The Hague in 1958.
She is former executive director of the Institute for People and Technology, director of the GVU Center at Georgia Tech, and Regents' and Distinguished Professor in the School of Interactive Computing, all at the Georgia Institute of Technology.
Expert Member of the Experts Panel and Reviewer of Ireland’s large scale strategic projects - Science Foundation Ireland SFI- Strategic Research Cluster Grants, 2008–2011.
She was a founding member of HEALnet (Health Evidence Application and Linkage Network), which made seminal contributions furthering informatics research and application in Canada.
For example, these systems automate routine functions, facilitate communication among caregivers, support decision-making processes, and allow statistical analysis to help improve care processes and implement best medical practices.
"Data Resource Profile: Cardiovascular disease research using linked bespoke studies and electronic health records (CALIBER)".
In January 2022, she was appointed Dean of the Khoury College for Computer Sciences at Northeastern University.
“Comparison of AR, ITS, CBT, and Didactic Training and Evaluation of Retinopathy-Based Diagnosis.” Military Medicine 184 (November): 579–83.
US Department of Health and Human Services On May 6, 2004, Brailer was appointed as the first National Health Information Technology Coordinator, pursuant to Executive Order 13335 by President George W.
"Developing a Dementia Research Registry: A descriptive case study from North Thames DeNDRoN and the EVIDEM programme".
He launched a broad strategic plan that drove the creation of new institutes and centers focused on precision medicine, health disparities and bioinformatics.
AWARE has been adopted in critical care settings and has demonstrated effectiveness in improving patient safety and clinician efficiency.
The Secretary's response "I don't think anything but their suitability for service should preclude them [from serving]" — was his first public comment on the issue and the most favorable from a senior U.S.
He maintained a secondary appointment as professor of basic medical sciences and of medicine at the University of Arizona College of Medicine (Phoenix Campus).
In 2000 AHIMA renamed the certification from RRA to Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).
Brailer led the company through several financings, strategic partnerships, an initial public offering in 2000, and sales to global software firm Quovadx in 2003.
Stead Award for Thought Leadership in Informatics, 2021 Elected Fellow, New York Academy of Medicine.
At Georgia Tech, Wilcox expanded her research scope to focus on how computing technology can meet the health needs of adolescents, including adolescent chronic condition management and adolescent health data privacy.
He became founding Chair of Biomedical Informatics at Mayo Clinic in 1988, stepping down after 20 years in that role.
In addition, he has devoted many years to innovate clinical practice through the development and deployment of integrated clinical information systems as CIO of the InCor and later as the CIO of the Secretary of Health, State of São Paulo.
Collen was a Founder of the American College of Medical Informatics (ACMI) in 1984, and the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA) in 1989.
Bergeron, Bryan, Michael Hagen, Lars Peterson, Ross Dworkin, Charles Bono, Todd Graham, and Mary Williams.
Roles The RHIA certification focuses on preparing members for careers in health information and medical records management, including management of the processes and systems that capture and report on health care-related data so that it can be used to evaluate care performance.
With data gathered from the practice, Collen organized and built a unique database for research in methods of preventive care, initially focusing on chronic diseases.
Giovanni Corrado Melchiore Wiederhold (June 24, 1936 – December 26, 2022) was an Italian-born American computer scientist who spent most of his career at Stanford University.
Earlier in her career at Rutgers, she served as Director of Information Services and Quality Assurance, Associate Dean for Planning and Assessment, Acting Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, and Acting and Interim Dean.
He published academic articles on nephrology, organ transplantation, snake bites and oleander poisoning.
The honour Vidya Jyothi was conferred upon him by the Government of Sri Lanka in 1993 in recognition of his contribution to nephrology, dialysis and transplantation in Sri Lanka.
Dean Forrest Sittig (born March 2, 1961) is an American biomedical informatician specializing in clinical informatics.
Weed was known to accompany students in the hospital where he observed them struggling to interpret unstructured patient notes written by doctors.
Aledade provides services to independent primary care providers forming accountable care organizations.
The event called for an EU-wide “Right to be Forgotten” to end financial discrimination against cancer survivors and reinforced a collective commitment to survivor protection and European solidarity.
His teaching background includes 13 years as assistant professor of emergency medicine at University of Pennsylvania Health System and four years, immediately before his appointment to ONC, as professor of emergency medicine and biomedical informatics at Ohio State University.
Bundestagsabgeordneter Werner Schuster gestorben, in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (Rhein-Main-Zeitung) no.
Previously at the Wharton School, he founded the health management program's health information technology program, taught in the MBA program, and lectured in the executive education program.
Wilcox was an inaugural member of the ACM Future of Computing Academy (ACM FCA) and co-authored an ACM FCA blog post in 2018, urging the computing research community to leverage the peer review process to identify and address the broader impacts of computing advancements on society.
She previously completed a PhD in human factors engineering at the University of Toronto, where she was a fellow in Health Care, Technology, and Place, and was a post-doctoral research fellow at the Center for Bioethics and Social Science in Medicine at the University of Michigan.
He drafted the reauthorization act that created the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and launched one of the first government initiatives to prevent health care errors (Healthcare Research and Quality Act of 1999).
After a residency at Los Angeles County General Hospital, Collen joined surgeon Sidney Garfield as original founding physicians in the Permanente Medical Group sponsored by the prominent industrialist Henry J.
Beyond chromosome analysis, FIDAC was adapted to digitize and analyze photographs of neurons and Pap smears as well as schlieren photographs.
The television ad was banned from television when the NBC affiliate in Chattanooga, Tennessee refused to air the ad.
He was also one of the first medical students to serve on the board of trustees for the American Medical Association.
From 1999 to 2003 he was the Dennis Gillings Professor of Health Management at Cambridge University and is a lifetime member of Clare Hall College, Cambridge.
Eysenbach is initiator of WebCite, an archiving service for scholarly authors and editors citing webpages.
He chairs the World Health Organization Revision Steering Group for the revision of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11).
Contributions to computer science The 1950s were remarkable for the introduction of the stored-program computer.
Yhteinen salaisuus – seksuaalisesti hyväksikäytetyt lapset kertovat (The common secret – told by sexually abused children).
Skevophylax Georges Zervos, also known as Skevos Zervos (Greek: Σκευοφύλαξ Γεώργιος Ζερβός, 1875–1966) was a prominent Greek Professor; a pioneer surgeon in Transplants and Telemedicine, who became a local and national benefactor in Greece.
As a member of parliament, Schuster was chiefly concerned with development and with health policy and took a particular interest in Africa and the fight against AIDS.
In 2015, he chaired a campaign to raise funds for a new AMIA Doctoral Dissertation Award, highlighting the best doctoral theses in the field of biomedical informatics.
His research has contributed to the implementation of automated monitoring systems that analyze patient data in real time, identifying early signs of sepsis before clinical deterioration occurs.
From 2005 to 2015 he was visiting professor, Centre for Health Informatics and Multi-professional Education, University College London.
He joined the Mayo Clinic in 2006 and later ee earned his master's degree in clinical research from the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science.
Since 2025, he serves as director of the Johns Hopkins Data Science and AI Institute and associate head of research and strategic initiatives in the Department of Computer Science.
Ultimately the Jet Propulsion Laboratory was awarded an NIH grant to develop a small, FIDAC-like instrument for use in laboratories and clinics.
In 1988, he was elected to senior membership in the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
Cui Tao is a Chinese and American health informatics researcher who works at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida.
Currently, Mendonça is the Inaugural VP for Research Development of the Regenstrief Institute at the Indiana University School of Medicine.
Anyone who had anything to do with him can tell of his constant and powerful commitment to greater justice in the world.
She also serves on the Scientific Committee of Cancer Patients Europe (CPE) and board member of Centre Scientifique de Monaco.
He is a Fellow of the American College of Physicians, the American College of Epidemiology, and the American College of Medical Informatics (ACMI).
She was recently awarded a Google Research Award for studying individual approaches to management of diabetes and she has also received awards from IBM, NASA, the NSF, and Siemens.
Her research has significantly advanced understanding of how technology mediates clinical performance, medical errors, and decision-making in high-stakes environments.
The name of the department was changed again in 1976 to the Department of Medical Biophysics and Computing, and in 1985 to the Department of Medical Informatics.
She attended North Carolina State University for her undergraduate studies, graduating summa cum laude with a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science in 1988.
To facilitate discussion among users and developers of FIDAC, Ledley founded in 1969 the peer-reviewed journal Pattern Recognition, the official journal of the Pattern Recognition Society.
Renato Marcos Endrizzi Sabbatini (born 20 February 1947, Campinas) is a retired professor at the Department of Biomedical Engineering and at the State University of Campinas Institute of Biology.
He was the Priscilla Chan and Mark Zuckerberg Distinguished Professor at the University of California, San Francisco.
In early 2025, Cathie Sudlow was appointed Director of the Usher Institute and Jacko took the role of Chief Academic Officer.
Margo Edmunds is an American health policy researcher, strategy consultant, educator, and writer who began her clinical career in disease management at Johns Hopkins Hospital.
Along with Hardeep Singh, he developed an “8-dimension socio-technical model for safe and effective HIT implementation and use”.
After Turing died, Richards changed his research area and worked for his doctorate, studying an aspect of optics, resulting in a Royal Society paper with his supervisor, Professor Emil Wolf.
In 1989, he helped found the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA) by bringing together several former disparate professional organizations, including ACMI.
In 2011, the Texas Governor's Committee on People with Disabilities named its annual employment awards program after Frieden for his advocacy work regarding the employment of people with disabilities around the world.
Bibliography Some relevant books listed at Oregon Health & Science University (OSHU) library: Knowledge engineering in health informatics Homer R.
O; Bahr, A; Claerhout, B; Daniel, C; Dugas, M; Dupont, D; Schmidt, A; Singleton, P; De Moor, G; Kalra, D (2013).
He was the principal developer of the clinical expert system MYCIN, one of the first rule-based artificial intelligence expert systems, which obtained clinical data interactively from a physician user and was used to diagnose and recommend treatment for severe infections.
This is thought to be a consequence of raised partial pressure of oxygen, and relatively high temperatures and humidity in the accommodation.
This makes the preparation and after-dive maintenance very simple in comparison with a conventional rebreather.
Heliox has been used medically since the 1930s, and although the medical community adopted it initially to alleviate symptoms of upper airway obstruction, its range of medical uses has since expanded greatly, mostly because of the low density of the gas.
Surface-supplied divers may avoid these problems in many cases by using a bell or stage for vertical travel through the water, but scuba divers need to be appropriately buoyant at all times when in the water.
There is no international classification of commercial divers in maritime labour law, and this may vary considerably between national legislations.
Recognition Recognition of the problem in time to help is critical; the diver will not notice any symptoms and is dependent on a dive buddy or surface support team for recognition.
This also allows the diver to dump gas from the BCD into the DSMB, keeping a constant buoyancy for part of the filling procedure.
David John Shaw (20 July 1954 – 8 January 2005) was an Australian scuba diver, technical diver, and airline pilot for Cathay Pacific, flying the Lockheed L-1011 Tristar, then the 747-400, and then the A330-300, A340-300, and A340-600.
The diver will report back on the bell integrity inspection and the bellman will confirm the bell status before the supervisor authorises the diver to proceed to the worksite.
When partial pressure or mass blending is done at low flow rates the gases entering the cylinder are not moving fast enough to ensure good mixing, and particularly when blends contain helium, they may tend to remain in layers due to density differences.
A deployable, or delayed surface marker buoy (DSMB) is an inflatable marker which the diver inflates while underwater and sends up at the end of a line to indicate position, and usually either that he or she is ascending, or that there is a problem.
Buddies are either self-selected, or imposed by a service provider who generally requires the divers to sign a waiver releasing the provider from almost all responsibility.
Safety data sheets for individual components of glow stick formulas recommend absorbing with sawdust or other absorbent material and in particular stress the importance of keeping waste away from water sources.
Early life and schooling Born in Częstochowa, Poland, Milowka moved to Melbourne at an early age with her parents, attending Caulfield Grammar School from 1994 to 1999.
The helmet uses a neck dam or can be connected directly to a dry suit, and uses a jocking harness to keep the helmet in position, but is ballasted to provide neutral buoyancy and a centre of gravity at the centre of buoyancy for stability.
By limiting the number of decompressions in this way, and using a conservative decompression schedule the risk of decompression sickness is significantly reduced, and the total time spent decompressing is minimized.
However, the SLAC-MIT experiments showed that higher energy electrons could be scattered through much higher angles, with the loss of some energy.
Besides tissue rupture, the overpressure may cause ingress of gases into the tissues through the ruptures, and further afield through the circulatory system.
Just believing in oneself may give one the will to take one's endeavours further than those who do not.
Timeline 1996: DAN SA was founded and recognized as a valid membership organisation by International Divers Alert Network.
The work in this area of the industry includes maintenance of oil platforms and the building of underwater structures.
In reality, the range of diving that is considered within the limits of their training is generally defined in the training standard for each level of certification.
flooded mine See: Mining Flooded mines and other underground spaces excavated by people and their machinery, by technical definition are not caves, but the activity of diving in such spaces is considered cave-diving, as the procedures and equipment are the same.
A secondary use is to control ascent rate in case of a positive buoyancy event due to loss of ballast weights.
In some parts of the world a diving instructor is required to pass an annual fitness to dive medical examination by a registered diving medical examiner, as they ma be required to assist or rescue a learner in their care.
Some divers report that they have hearing changes, and that the sound their exhaled bubbles make becomes different.
US Navy Diving Manual Revision 6 The US Navy Diving Manual Revision 6 Volume 4 section 17.11.1.4 recommends the following procedure for managing a convulsing casualty at depth.
A downline used for open ocean diving is much the same as a shotline, but does not reach all the way to the bottom.
RAID – (Rebreather Association of International Divers) – Independent Diver: A recreational program for no-decompression open-circuit diving.
Recreational diving in reasonably good conditions which are comfortably managed by the diver can produce health benefits of mood improvement.
For instance, if a survey ship loses its DP capability, there is normally no risk of damage or injuries.
At 27 metres depth the Bühlmann 1986 table (for altitudes of 0–700 m) allows 20 minutes bottom time without requiring a decompression stop, while at 20 metres the no-stop time is 35 minutes.
In these situations the actual risk is seldom known with any accuracy, making the decision more difficult for the divers in the water.
HEUs intended to be transported on a rescue vessel should have attachment points provided for securing to the deck.
In 1828 the brothers decided to find another application for their device and converted it into a diving helmet.
For this reason, dive tables typically have a degree of conservatism built into their recommendations.
The number of Blue Hole fatalities is not accurately recorded; one source estimates 130 divers died during the fifteen-year period from 1997 to 2012, averaging over eight per year, another claims as many as 200.
Many dive computers indicate a recommended safety stop as standard procedure for dives beyond specific limits of depth and time.
The risk is unacceptable unless the diver is physically constrained from approaching the thrusters' danger zones.
While following recommended best practice makes it highly unlikely that a diver will lose the line, it can and does happen, and there are procedures which will usually work to find it again.
Underwater habitats are underwater structures in which people can live for extended periods and carry out most of the basic human functions of a 24-hour day, such as working, resting, eating, attending to personal hygiene, and sleeping.
The hexagon of the left hand thread lock nut generally has a groove machined into it to alert the technician to the presence of left hand thread.
It is more conservative gas management to do any work on the outward leg, and return directly, unless specifically planned otherwise.
A decompression buoy is not intended to be used to lift heavy weights: for this purpose divers use a lifting bag.
This practice has a long history, originating with the practice of decompressing according to the tables for a dive deeper than the actual depth, longer than the actual bottom time, or both.
An alternative method was to bolt the bonnet to the corselet over a rubber collar bonded to the top of the suit in the three- or two-bolt system.
Aggregation of such data can provide insights into diving patterns across the population of users and help in analysing risk.
Multiple saturation storage depths There can be operational requirements for intermediate compression and/or decompression during a saturation exposure, where the excursion limits do not accommodate the depth range necessary for the work.
They may be used for temporary lines on wrecks where it may not be possible to recover the line before ascent, and biodegradation is desirable.
A helmet bailout block has the bailout valve knob to the side to distinguish it from the free-flow, or defogging valve, which is commonly to the front of the same manifold.
Diving medical practitioner A registered diving medical practitioner (DMP) competent to manage diving injuries may be required to be available on standby off-site during diving operations.
If there is wind the boat will drag the downlines, and if tethered to the buoy, it will drag the buoy and divers attached.
Residual gas may be expressed as a "repetitive group", which is an important input value for planning the decompression for the next dive when using tables.
Understanding the need for clear communication and debate, Michael Lang of the California State University at San Diego and Bill Hamilton of Hamilton Research Ltd.
Breath-hold duration is limited by oxygen reserves, and the risk of hypoxic blackout, which has a high associated risk of drowning.
There are two related terms that reflect particular usages rather than technically different types: Decompression chamber, a hyperbaric chamber used to decompress surface-supplied divers Recompression chamber, a hyperbaric chamber used to treat or prevent decompression sickness.
Bailout to emergency gas supply Loss of breathing gas is a safety-critical malfunction, and must be manageable by the diver without outside assistance over the short term.
Exposure suit – The diver will wear an exposure suit appropriate for the planned dive time, breathing gas and water temperature, and also influenced by the level of exertion expected during the dive.
The topside crew will usually help as the bailout cylinder will be already mounted, and usually also attached to the helmet, making this a cumbersome procedure, easiest if the diver is seated.
The program involves using real-time sensor data, including navigational data and radar feeds transmitted from the ship to a remote operations center.
The strap arrangement for full face masks is usually quite secure, but not as secure as a bandmask or helmet, and it is possible for it to be dislodged in the water.
Training and certification Technical diver training and certification agencies may differentiate between levels of trimix diving qualifications, The usual distinction is between normoxic trimix and hypoxic trimix, sometimes also called full trimix.
Life-support supervisor The life support supervisor is a senior life support technician appointed by the diving contractor to supervise operation of the saturation life support systems.
They can be found in emergency lighting kits in buildings, public transportation vehicles, and subway stations.
The curriculum covers a wide range of topics including hyperbaric chamber operations to transcutaneous oxygen monitoring.
There is some circumstantial evidence that HPNS symptoms increase when chamber temperature is too high.
In addition to his speleological work, Marek joined the Irish Cave Rescue Organisation in 2014 and became a core team member in 2015.
In 1979 the XDC-4 could already be used with mixed gases and different decompression models using a multiprocessor system, but was too expensive to make an impact on the market.
Ignition risks can be minimized by controlling heat sources and using materials that will not ignite or will not support burning in the applicable environment.
Hazard and vulnerability interact with likelihood of occurrence to create risk, which can be the probability of a specific undesirable consequence of a specific hazard, or the combined probability of undesirable consequences of all the hazards of a specific activity.
This may be considered not to be a search, as the target can be seen, and the position known, but it is not always possible to get a positive identification until the diver gets there, and there may be several potential targets to check.
Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 The MCAA specifies when a licence is required for an activity that involve depositing or removing a substance or object in the UK Marine Area below the mean high water springs mark.
A DMAC consensus document has been issued with tentative advice on possible procedures based on a balance of perceived risk.
An investigation by the government of Trinidad and Tobago concluded that the deaths of the divers were due to "gross [...] and consequently criminal" negligence and made recommendations that charges be laid for corporate manslaughter.
A hyperbaric evacuation unit (HEU), also known as a hyperbaric rescue unit (HRU), with the capacity to evacuate the maximum number of divers that the diving system can accommodate, is required, with a life support system that can maintain the hyperbaric environment for at least 72 hours.
Response staff and diving medicine specialists are on call 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to provide information and assist with care coordination and evacuation assistance.
The controlled saturation living environment, although stressful and relatively uncomfortable, is less stressful and uncomfortable than the surface oriented alternative, and the safety advantage of a single slow decompression minimises health related hazards and risks.
Comprises gas supply hoses, pneumofathometer, a strength member and communications cable, and may also include gas reclaim hose, hot water hose and hoses for hydraulic or pneumatic power, and electrical and optical cables for ancillary equipment.
The bellman normally stays in the bell during the dive and operates the bell gas panel, but may be required to leave the bell to go to the assistance of the working diver, recover a disabled diver to the bell and provide first aid in the bell.
Recovery breathing may reduce the risk of surface blackout during the critical period after surfacing.
A single cylinder puts the diver in a position of dependence on the buddy for alternative breathing gas in case of an emergency cutting off the main air supply, unless the option of a free ascent is acceptable.
Water content is limited by risks of icing of control valves, and corrosion of containment surfaces – higher humidity is not a physiological problem – and is generally a factor of dew point.
Repetitive group A repetitive group is a designation applied to a diver with residual gas loading after a dive, who intends to do a repetitive dive using decompression tables.
US history In the 1970s, cave-diving greatly increased in popularity among divers in the United States.
Electronically monitored or controlled diving rebreather systems, saturation diving systems, and many medical life-support systems use galvanic oxygen sensors in their control circuits to directly monitor oxygen partial pressure during operation.
The diver breathes normally from a right-side primary second-stage regulator, mounted on a long hose tucked under at the waist and looped behind the head for quick deployment.
A multiple diver backward-roll entry is usually coordinated by a crew member who voices a countdown so all divers go at the same time.
The oro-nasal mask seals around the nose and mouth, forming a small volume gas space through which the breathing gas normally flows from demand valve to nose or mouth, and from nose or mouth to the exhaust valves.
Carbon dioxide buildup Carbon dioxide buildup will occur if the scrubber medium is absent, badly packed, inadequate or exhausted.
underwater blackout syndrome hypoxic blackout This has been defined as a loss of consciousness during a breath-hold submersion preceded by hyperventilation where alternative causes of blackout have been excluded.
Gas man A gas man, also called gas panel operator, or rack operator, is required when gas mixtures other than air are to be provided to the diver.
The prerequisite is usually an entry-level diving certification, but in some regions where the water is very cold, and with some agencies, entry-level training may be done in dry suits as an option.
A band mask is heavier than other full face masks, but lighter than a helmet, and can be donned more quickly than a helmet.
This is not safe, but it is safer than drowning, and may be safer than breathing a gas which is unsafe at that depth, or surfacing having missed a large amount of obligatory decompression.
The diver should switch to an alternative second stage if available, though careful breathing and placement of the tongue in the air path can minimize salt spray aspiration.
Direct charging is energy intensive, and the charge rate will be limited by the available power source and capacity of the compressor.
The position of the in-water tender is chosen to restrict the distance between the tender and working diver so that last section of the umbilical between diver and tender is short enough to prevent the diver from reaching the hazard.
Redundancy in plumbing schemes was common and necessary, and with this particular system, by turning several valves on the console, any one depth gauge could be made to monitor the depth of a chamber other than for which it was normally intended.
Investigative reporter Bryan Gould would later discover that BNOC's Offshore Construction Manager, Joe Singletary, facilitated Infabco's bid by allowing Masterson to examine his competitors' bids.
Divers appear to be at greater risk for long term cochlear-vestibular damage and associated high frequency hearing loss.
In cases such as circulatory problems, non-healing wounds, and strokes, adequate oxygen cannot reach the damaged area and the body's healing process is unable to function properly.
They can provide enhanced safety, comfort and convenience, and provide guided access to sites of particular interest, but introduce their own set of hazards.
IDAN International DAN (IDAN) comprises independently administered nonprofit DAN organizations based around the world that provide expert emergency medical and referral services to regional diving communities.
Underwater diving, as a human activity, is the practice of descending below the water's surface to interact with the environment.
Scuba replacement is often used from smaller diving support vessels, for emergency work, and for hazmat diving, where the atmospheric air at the site may be contaminated.
On 30 October 2004, he extended his own world record to 171 meters (561 ft) in the no-limits free-diving category.
Technology and receiving range Every ENOS is a self-contained rescue system that functions in a local area.
Diving skills required depend on the mode of diving and equipment used, and work skills required depend on the job to be done.
Heliair Heliair is a breathing gas consisting of mixture of oxygen, nitrogen and helium and is often used during the deep phase of dives carried out using technical diving techniques.
Biography Hammerberg was born at Daggett, Michigan, on May 31, 1920; his family subsequently moved to Flint when he was young.
Description Built as Deep Sea Driller, Byford Dolphin was the first-of-class in the highly successful Aker H-3 series, designed by Aker Group and completed at the Aker Verdal shipyard in 1974.
Depending on circumstances, the distressed divers may be able to make the transfer through the water using their own breathing gas supplies, or they may be supplied from the rescue bell.
It is not possible to discriminate between "right" and "wrong" options, but it is considered correct to say that the risk of developing DCS is greater for the longer exposures and less for the shorter exposures for a given depth.
Once apprentice certified, a diver may penetrate much further into a cave, usually limited by 1/3 of double cylinders.
Statistics show diving fatalities comparable to motor vehicle accidents of 16.4 per 100,000 divers and 16 per 100,000 drivers.
Mapping and/or ground-truthing: Direct survey by divers may be necessary or preferable, depending on what is to be mapped.
Swimming in currents and wave surge Remove and refit certain items of equipment while in or under the water Some knowledge of physiology and the physics of diving is considered necessary by most diver certification agencies, as the diving environment is alien and relatively hostile to humans.
The knob is usually attached by a bolt which allows it to rotate, giving a more secure grip to the winding hand.
The diver would then test the air supply and telephone and a tender would set the exhaust valve to the standard setting.
Using a dry suit safely requires special skills, including buoyancy control, inversion recovery, emergency venting, and blowup recovery.
Magnetometers Magnetometers are only sensitive to electromagnetic fields that differ from the local geomagnetic field.
Lifting bags, an item of diving equipment consisting of a robust and air-tight bag with straps, which is used to lift heavy objects underwater by means of the bag's buoyancy when filled with air.
Diving supervisors are used in commercial diving, military diving, public safety diving and scientific diving operations.
They claimed that the commission investigating the accident did not mention in their report the irresponsible dispensations on vital equipment requested by Comex and authorized by the diving section to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate, which played a vital role in the accident's occurrence.
A surface marker buoy, SMB, dive float or simply a blob is a buoy used by scuba divers, at the end of a line from the diver, intended to indicate the diver's position to people at the surface while the diver is underwater.
The rescuer will be negative at this point, but this is generally easily compensated by finning and corrected by inflation of the rescuer's BC.
For a depth up to 10 m, this depth gauge is quite accurate, because in this range, the pressure doubles from 1 bar to 2 bar, and so it uses half of the scale.
Afloat Mariners use position-fixing navigation, to obtain a "position fix" or "fix" by measuring the bearing of the navigator's current position from known points of reference.
He won titles twice at the Deja Blue competition and finished third at the Caribbean Cup in Roatán, Honduras.
Structure and layout The construction and layout of a hyperbaric diving chamber depends on its intended use, but there are several features common to most chambers.
References External links DeepCave.com - Shaw's personal webpage, with his final updates regarding preparations for the fatal recovery of Dreyer's body.
The equivalent air depth, for a given nitrox mix and depth, is the depth of a dive when breathing air that would have the same partial pressure of nitrogen.
The regulation of recreational diving Australia Queensland Safety in Recreational Water Activities Act 2011.
Neon has an atomic and molecular weight of approximately 20, compared to 14 for nitrogen and 4 for helium, but nitrogen gas (N2)has a molecular weight of 28.
Scuba interventions have been organized for people with neurological and neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorder.
The bars are of sufficient weight and the buoys of sufficient buoyancy that the trapeze will not easily change depth in turbulent water or if the divers experience buoyancy control problems.
He was able to return to the workplace using his bailout set, so was easily found by an ROV from the ship, but his bailout gas was insufficient for the time it took to get the ship back on position for a rescue attempt from the bell.
Two adjacent arrows facing away from each other, mark a point on the line where the diver is equidistant from two exits.
They can be uncomfortably hot in warm or hot air, and are typically more expensive and more complex to don.
Use of breathing gases other than those planned for the current depth range of a dive can have undesirable consequences.
The sport of scuba diving is rooted in a multitude of small enthusiastic snorkelling and spearfishing clubs that date back to the decades just before and after World War II.
Camera and light assemblies are often ballasted or provided with rigid buoyancy to provide neutral buoyancy and reasonably stable trim, as this makes it easier to hold the camera in place when setting up a shot.
Sufficient hydration should be maintained, and carbohydrates should be adequate for the underwater work.
There may also be a high-pressure compressor for filling scuba cylinders and high pressure reserve air cylinders for divers or decompression chambers, and this too should be operated by a competent person.
Many diving fatalities are the result of a cascade of incidents overwhelming the diver, who should be able to manage any single reasonably foreseeable incident.
He began searching famous wrecks like RMS Titanic, RMS Empress of Ireland, USS Monitor, and SS Andrea Doria.
The search pattern corresponds closely to that of the Jackstay grid search, and is sometimes referred to as a U-pattern search.
The pneumofathometer gauges are mounted on the diver's breathing gas supply panel, and are activated by a valve.
Once saturated, the time required for decompression to surface pressure will not increase with longer exposure.
Insulation may be provided in part by the suit shell, but is usually mainly provided by thermal insulation clothing worn under the suit, which relies to a large extent on trapped air for its insulating properties.
This route can not be closed and supplies the helmet demand valve and free flow valve under normal circumstances.
A solo diver operating beyond the range for acceptable risk for a controlled emergency swimming ascent needs to carry a second, independent source of suitable breathing gas, which includes a regulator and preferably a submersible pressure gauge.
On the way out, it can be an emergency, as the route may become uncertain, and remains uncertain until the other end has been found.
In 2012, while on a coastal dive at Ailladie, near Fanore, County Clare, he discovered the entrance to Cliff Cave.
After reaching the maximum depth of the dive, the diver moves their feet onto the stone and is pulled to the surface by their companion.
Mixing by mass fraction: oxygen is added to a partially full cylinder that is accurately weighed until the required mix is achieved.
Breathing gas supply Diver's umbilical The umbilical contains a hose to supply the breathing gas and usually several other components.
Panic attacks are commonly triggered by an event that a non-diver would consider serious, such as entanglement, an equipment malfunction or being confronted by an unexpected sea creature they may consider dangerous.
It is used to selectively illuminate the subject to give dark backgrounds and a brightly lit subject.
Larger versions which can carry more line and are suitable for use from deeper depths are more likely to be machined from aluminium and are both more ergonomically shaped and more expensive.
However, evidence does not support the notion that people systematically overestimate how much control they have; when they have a great deal of control, people tend to underestimate how much control they have.
There are protocols for managing this type of emergency, depending on severity and whether the diver has developed symptoms.
Some legislation affects only professional diving, other may affect only recreational diving, or all diving activities.
The photopic beam attenuation coefficient, on which diver visibility depends, is the attenuation of natural light as perceived by the human eye, but in practice it is simpler and more usual to measure the attenuation coefficient for one or more wavelength bands.
Divers in saturation inside a diving system cannot be quickly decompressed to be evacuated in the same way as other installation personnel.
"V" saturation profile A more restrictive limitation used is to not allow further compression once decompression has been started.
Accidents continue to occur because the majority of the contributing and compounding factors are not addressed.
Mode of operation With water depth, the ambient pressure increases 1 bar for every 10 m in fresh water at 4 °C.
A diver medic or diving medical technician (DMT) is a member of a dive team who is trained in advanced first aid.
Tourists remain inside a shark-proof cage while tour guides bait the waters to attract sharks for the tourists to observe.
The members of a diving team are part of a larger class of diving support personnel, which includes diving instructors, equipment maintenance technicians, operators of equipment and vessels used in support of a diving operation, and specialised medical staff.
Military Glow sticks were originally invented by the US military, and are an essential part of military operations across land and sea, where they are more often referred to as chem lights.
Over time, some equipment and techniques developed for technical diving have become more widely accepted for recreational diving.
Divers are instructed and assessed on these skills during basic and advanced training, and are expected to remain competent at their level of certification, either by practice or refresher courses.
Secondary tie-off The secondary tie-off is made just inside the overhead, where the route to the exit is obvious even if visibility is lost.
The bellman is a diver who acts as standby diver and diver's attendant from the bell during the dive, and may alternate as working diver during the dive if appropriately competent for the diving task.
Saturation diving system A saturation diving system is the combined and installed equipment required to support a saturation diving operation.
It is usually defined in an organizational operations manual, which may stipulate recorded checklists for the equipment in use, and norms for the participation of other diving team members.
A listing is also given of precautions that may be taken to reduce vulnerability, either by reducing the risk or mitigating the consequences.
On the high pressure side of the compressor a regulator or bleed orifice is used to reduce pressure of a sample flow and the trimix is analyzed (preferably for both helium and oxygen) so that the fine adjustment to the intake gas flows can be made.
A solo diver needs to be able to prepare, dress in and check all equipment used without buddy assistance.
Possible causes include incorrect interstage pressure setting, incorrect second stage valve spring tension, damaged or sticking valve poppet, damaged valve seat, valve freezing, wrong sensitivity setting at the surface and in Poseidon servo-assisted second stages, low interstage pressure.
The diver carried a light backpack with counterlung and carbon dioxide scrubber, supplied through an umbilical.
The chemicals inside the plastic tube are a mixture of the dye, the base catalyst, and diphenyl oxalate.
These helmets are of the demand type, usually built on a fiberglass shell with chrome-plated brass fittings, and are considered the standard in modern commercial diving for most operations.
Weight harness A weight harness usually consists of a belt around the waist holding pouches for the weights, with shoulder straps for extra support and security.
The tunnel appears shorter than it actually is because of the clarity of the water, the light at the outside end and the lack of reference points; divers report that the tunnel appears to be less than 10 m long but has been measured as 26 m.
This can be useful if he needs to climb a structure, shotline or topographical feature, and the umbilicals can not be safely used to lift the divers due to snags or sharp edges.
Overview of the above disciplines World records The best official result in static apnea is the Guinness WR of 11:54 by Branko Petrović in 2014, a freediver who has results over 10 minutes under both AIDA and CMAS.
Regular maintenance and occasionally repair, replacement, and upgrading, is essential to ensure that the equipment remains safe and efficient and sufficiently flexible to adapt to changing needs and standards.
It was unknown at the time of the capsize how many passengers were onboard the vessel, and two American tourists were trapped underneath the capsized hull for more than forty minutes before it was realized that passengers were still unaccounted for.
Augustine Lighthouse & Museum, where she participated in the archaeological excavation of historic shipwreck sites.
Most scientific dives can be deferred when conditions are sub-optimal, and seldom require the use of dangerous equipment.
A significant part of diving equipment is also used for this purpose, and designed to further this goal.
Buoyancy is generally controlled by adding gas to variable volume equipment (BCD and dry suit), but weighting is constant throughout a normal dive, and is only jettisoned in an emergency.
It is common to provide the additional oxygen as a pure gas added to the breathing air at inhalation, or though a life-support system.
Volume Each gas must be provided in sufficient quantity to adequately supply the diver throughout the relevant sector(s) of the dive.
He died during a private training session in Villefranche-sur-Mer when his equipment failed and he did not reach the surface in time.
Code of Practice for Inshore Diving The Code of Practice for Inshore Diving provides guidance for accepted safe working practices using surface supplied diving equipment for commercial diving operations within the territorial waters of South Africa.
The work environment and living conditions on contract tend to be monotonous, but they are interspersed with periods of leisure.
He used his position among other things to promote his belief in creationism and to deny the theory of evolution, finding a fellow believer in these views in his colleague Quincy Johnson.
William Cuninghame of Lainshaw (c.1775–1849) was a Scottish landowner, known as a writer on biblical prophecy.
Notes References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Lydiat, Thomas".
According to a legend, the epithet was miraculously supplied by angels, thus completing his unfinished epitaph.
Career Bond entered the public service at the age of 21 as a clerk, assisting Henry Cole, his brother-in-law, in the arrangement of the public records when they were transferred from Whitehall to the Royal Riding School of Carlton House.
He is a painter and illustrator of original artworks inspired by topological objects and structures.
Life After graduating with the title Born in the then province of Hesse-Nassau, Hans Michael Finger.
He rebukes astrologers for their attempts to predict events, including times when they failed to do so, affirming instead that disasters came from divine judgment, not planetary influence.
Michael emphasized the historical significance of the "Syrian" kingdoms that existed on both sides of the Euphrates, using this narrative to assert his people's historical sovereignty despite lacking contemporary kings.
Notes Attributions This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lee, Sidney, ed.
By first claiming that references to mythological Tantalis by Plato were in fact meant to identify a Lydian king by the name of Tantalus, James identifies Atlantis with a hypothetical lost temple city called Tantalis, now Manisa, Turkey.
Bart Ehrman defended the opinion that Peter and Cephas were different people in a 1990 article, which was rebutted by Dale Allison.
Bugg considered their views to be identical with Roman Catholic teaching and therefore a threat to the doctrine of Justification by faith.
After the imminent shelling of Peine by American tank troops Hans Michael Finger, mayor Wiard Bronleewe and others from the Peine command post went to surrender to the American commander Captain Daniel A.
In 1771 he was transferred, by presentation of the dean and chapter of Westminster, to the vicarage of St.
In two cases he left instructions that his marginal notes, which gave the details of his sources, should be preserved by the copyist, and he may have originally added marginal comments about his sources to others of his works.
Buck (1967), James Ussher, Archbishop of Armagh, University of Wales Press Gould, Stephen Jay (1996), "Fall in the House of Ussher", Eight Little Piggies, New York: W.
Its lunar cycle is the nearby variant of Theophilus' 19-year lunar cycle proposed by Annianus and adopted by bishop Cyril of Alexandria in the first half of the fifth century.
Hardouin also argued that Jesus Christ himself spoke Latin on a daily basis, interpreting passages in the Gospels where Jesus' very words are recorded in Aramaic to indicate that this was not the language which he usually spoke.
A partiality to the Romans is suggested by the surname Philoromaeus, and may have been evident in a work mentioned by Plutarch as comparing the institutions of Rome with those of Pythagoras.
On the restoration of the monarchy Fowler lost his fellowship at Eton, but retained the Reading vicarage till he was ejected by the Act of Uniformity 1662.
The main thesis interprets the remnant of very early high cultures there as the basis for Plato's Atlantis.
His collected works (incomplete) are in the Library of Anglo-Catholic Theology in 12 volumes (Oxford, 1842–48).
In 1913 Anstey's book, The Romance of Bible Chronology was published, explaining how subtle pieces of information within the Bible text resolve these apparent chronological gaps.
Veith was told by his religion teacher that because of his mother's non-Catholic beliefs, she would "languish forever and ever" in hell.
Many synkelloi would go on to become Patriarchs of Constantinople, or Bishops of other sees (for example George's colleague, John, another synkellos under Patriarch Tarasius, who became Metropolitan Bishop of Sardis in 803).
In 1633, Ussher wrote to the new Archbishop of Canterbury, William Laud, in an effort to gain support for the imposition of recusancy fines on Irish Catholics.
Fasti Temporis Catholici and Origines Kalendariæ: History of the Primitive Calendar, Part 1, 1852, 4 vols.
London Reformed Baptist Seminary Masters initiated the London Reformed Baptist Seminary in 1976, and directs the further studies of both pastors and aspiring pastors in the Tabernacle's adjunct seminary.
He wrote various books and articles, was a regular in the media and talk shows and published entries at the Axis of good blog[4] and Schweizer Monat.
Repertorium "Historical Sources of the German Middle Ages" (Geschichtsquellen des deutschen Mittelalters).
See also Noah's Flood Catastrophism Biblical prophecy Dorsa Whiston, a lunar ridge named after him References Further reading Farrell, Maureen (1981).
The commission issued a printed summary entitled Compendium novae rationis restituendi kalendarium (Compendium of a New Plan for the Restitution of the Calendar), printed in 1577 and circulated within the Roman Catholic world in early 1578 as a consultation document.
References Sources This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed.
Cotton Mather observed that he "approved himself a pious and painful minister of the Gospel at Charlestown", where he remained Teacher until 1651.
This failure to recognize the power of comets and asteroids means that it is reasonable to go back to Velikovsky and delete all the physically impossible text about Venus and Mars passing close to the earth ...
Upon graduating in 1983, Fielding accepted a position at Hewlett-Packard, and later he moved into management at technology firms NEC and Siemens.
In each place where the rabbis were sold as slaves, the local Jewish communities bought their freedom.
I found him to be a top bloke and really enjoyed his company." The following morning on Sunday 27 November 2011, Walker received the news that Speed had died by suicide at his house in Cheshire.
After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, brought the United States into World War II, his father volunteered to join the Navy, and was assigned to Naval Air Station North Island in California.
He attended Wellington College in New Zealand, later graduating from Victoria University of Wellington with a BSc (Hons.) in chemistry, and a PhD in the same subject for a thesis entitled "A Spectroscopic Study of some Chalcogenide Ring and Cage Molecules".
During this last period he began a correspondence with the Bishop of Orléans, Gabriel de Laubépine (Albaspinaeus), on the first year of the primitive Church.
In 1754, he published, 'The Chronology and History of the World, from the Creation to the Year of Christ 1753, illustrated in fifty-six tables.' It was dedicated to the lord chancellor (Hardwicke), and was published by subscription.
Usher, "should he propose himself." 1619 Ussher travelled to England, where he remained for two years.
There was a sustained remission which led Barbara Koopman to write articles praising the "miraculous healing", and CBS broadcast an episode in Unsolved Mysteries The decision of parents was criticized in The Skeptic's Dictionary and in a book of T.
But a few years later he developed doubts about Catholicism and, through the influence of a craftsman who renovated his kitchen, he and his wife joined the Adventist faith.
Applications for the latter are to provide low noise local oscillators to atomic physics labs, time and frequency atomic fountain standards, and very high frequency VLBI (Very-Long-Baseline-Interferometry) radio-astronomy.
In 1603, while a student at Christ's College, Cambridge, Mede came across an open copy of Sextus Empiricus' Outlines of Pyrrhonism on another student's desk.
Following his move to Tennessee in 1991, Grant founded the King's Meadow Study Center and Franklin Classical School in Franklin.
Immanuel Velikovsky (; Russian: Иммануи́л Велико́вский, IPA: [ɪmənʊˈil vʲɪlʲɪˈkofskʲɪj]; 10 June [O.S.
He is considered the first Aristotelian in medieval Jewish philosophy; his work has been given less attention than Maimonides' subsequent and widely popular work The Guide for the Perplexed.
For the 2012 London Olympics, Walker presented a nightly post-midnight round-up of the day's events.
William Beveridge (1637 – 5 March 1708) was an English writer and clergyman who served as Bishop of St Asaph from 1704 until his death.
Works Harrison is best known for his Description of England, first published in 1577 as part of Holinshed's Chronicles, and reissued in revised form in 1587.
His serious concerns about the theory of evolution had been resolved by the proviso that he only needed to carry out research.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Cary, Robert".
These Collectiones canonum Dionysianae had great authority in the West, and they continue to guide church administrations.
Fomenko is a specialist in geometry and topology, variational calculus, symplectic topology, Hamiltonian geometry and mechanics, and computational geometry.
Comfort says that evangelism is the main reason the Christian Church exists and that many of the evangelistic methods used over the last century have produced false conversions to Christianity.
Josiah Whiston was a presbyterian, but retained his rectorship after the Stuart Restoration in 1660.
There were claims that Poots' supporters engaged in bullying and intimidation during the leadership election, and some party members walked out before his speech.
in geriatrics), who studies mental healing phenomenon, says that Levashov considers understanding the anisotropy of the universe necessary for creation or dissolution of matter for healing purposes.
He was familiar with the works of Augustine of Hippo, but even more with classical authors like Virgil, Horace, Lucan, and Macrobius.
The library was transferred to Renshaw Street Unitarian Chapel, to which the congregation moved in 1811.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Anderson, Robert Edward (1891).
Rise Up Australia Party On 22 June 2011, Nalliah launched a new political party, Rise Up Australia, which he leads.
He was elected to the upper house at the 2004 federal election on two per cent of the first-preference votes.
However, he is best remembered now as the originator of a variety of unorthodox theories, especially his opinion that a 14th century conspiracy forged practically all literature traditionally believed to have been written before that era.
Whiston had started writing on the millenarianism that was integral to the Newtonian theology, and wanted to distance his views from theirs, and in particular from those of John Lacy.
Comfort retracted the video and claims upon learning that the banana is a result of artificial selection by humans, and that the wild banana (Musa acuminata) is small and unpalatable.
After moving to Australia and founding Catch the Fire Ministries, Nalliah travelled extensively, preaching to congregations in a number of countries.
His kinsman, William Seymour, Marquess of Hertford, who was chancellor of the university, obtained for him the degree of D.C.L.
Grant became executive director of the Coral Ridge ministry on February 1, 1990; the ministry had a $17 million annual budget in 1990.
Cotsworth and Wright were on hand to rescue Mrs Bent when she broke her leg on the way to Bethlehem just before Christmas 1900.
An abridgment of this work, Rationarium temporum, was translated into French and English, and has been brought down to the year 1849.
The year 2010 was the 500th year since the Lilius' birth; several activities were organized by Italian astronomers in order to recognize the great work performed by him.
Grant (born 1954 in Houston, Texas) is an American evangelical writer, and a pastor in the Presbyterian Church in America (PCA).
This appears to be the same Castor, mentioned by Strabo, who was surnamed Saecondarius, was a son-in-law of Deiotarus, and was put to death by him.
He is primarily known as the inventor of the Gregorian Calendar: he wrote the proposal on which (after modifications) the calendar reform was based.
Despite being well known to posterity for his description of England, at this time he had only travelled within a small compass in the south of England.
Thietmar's Chronicle Between 1012 and 1018 Thietmar, while Bishop of Merseburg, composed his chronicle Chronicon Thietmari, which comprises eight books, that cover the period between 908 and 1018, the Saxon Emperors Henry the Fowler, the three Ottos, and Henry II the Saint.
His works in this field have been partially published in the yearbook of the German Institutum Canarium, as well as in the yearbook of the University of Cádiz, Spain.
Research and publications Economics In collaboration with a famous colleague in Bremen, economist Otto Steiger, Heinsohn criticized the "barter paradigm" of money.
Leaving Scotland as a young man, he became usher of a school in Hedge Lane, London, in succession to Andrew Henderson, author of a well-known history of the rebellion of 1745.
Programmes are also broadcast on a number of overseas radio stations including in New Zealand and the US.
Anatoly Timofeevich Fomenko (Russian: Анато́лий Тимофе́евич Фоме́нко; born 13 March 1945 in Stalino, USSR) is a Soviet and Russian professor of Mathematics at Moscow State University.
Bibliography Centuries of Darkness: A Challenge to the Conventional Chronology of Old World Archaeology, in collaboration with I.J.
He declined; he hated lecturing, and there were those among his friends who erroneously believed that with the success of Henry IV learning would flourish, and Protestantism would be no barrier to his advancement.
During the 1820s, only some Scriptural geologists held a decidedly antagonistic attitude towards the new geology.
In 2013 the Tabernacle programme transferred to the Sky channel Revelation TV, and is broadcast every Saturday evening in the UK and also in the USA.
Greenhill remarks that its author, wearied with controversy, was glad to leave others to "dispute" while he should "compute": like Abraham Buchholzer (he says with a flourish), malle se computare quam disputare.
Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Allen, Thomas (1608-1673".
He was baptized and instructed in the city, and lived in Syria Palaestina in 296, when Diocletian's army passed through the region (in the Life of Constantine, Eusebius recalls seeing Constantine traveling with the army).
I do assure you, I have a just value for many valuable things that I know to be in you ; and do heartily lament every thing that is otherwise." Dissertations upon Irenaeus Printed 1689 in Latin under the title of Dissertationes in Irenaeum.
In his 1987 book The Changing of the Guard: Biblical Principles for Political Action, Grant wrote "Christians have an obligation, a mandate, a holy responsibility to reclaim the land for Jesus Christ, to have dominion in civil structures just as in every other aspect of life and godliness.
Uwe Topper (born 1940) is a German amateur researcher and author of books about historic, ethnographic, and anthropological subjects.
The death of the Prince of Wales in 1612 cut off his hopes of preferment, and in the same year, after some hesitation, he accepted the family living of Alkerton, which he had refused during his father's lifetime.
The intention was that this crew would eventually become the prime crew for Apollo 16, but Cernan disagreed with this; he wanted to command his own mission.
Most likely Dionysius was also of local Thraco-Roman origin (romanized Geto–Dacian), like Vitalian's family to whom he was related, and the rest of the Scythian monks and other Thraco-Roman personalities of the era (Justin I, Justinian, Flavius Aetius, etc.).
Horneck and others in forming religious societies for 'reformation of manners.' In 1689 he became president of Sion College.
John, confirming those of 2436 and 3430, mentioned in the Essay; from two numerical prophecies of Moses and our Saviour,' London, 1769.
Such recognition of American Indian culture in existing institutions was one of the goals of the Alcatraz-Red Power Movement.
§ 3, is a eulogy of British liberties, with evident reference to the events of 1745, during which Winder had helped to raise a regiment for the defence of Liverpool.
His paternal grandmother was Mary Sully, daughter of Alfred Sully, a general in the American Civil War and Indian Wars, and his French-Yankton wife; and granddaughter of painter Thomas Sully.
Ignatius bishop of Melitene, whom Michael quotes at length regarding the Syriac Orthodox faith before the Chalcedonian patriarch of Constantinople; and 8.
Snelling has been published in standard geological publications estimating the age of geological specimens in billions of years, but has also written articles for creationist journals in which he supports a young-earth creationism viewpoint.
Petau's claim to fame chiefly rests on his vast, but unfinished, De theologicis dogmatibus, the first systematic attempt ever made to treat the development of Christian doctrine from the historical point of view.
In November 2006, the University of Leeds issued a statement distancing itself from creationism, and described McIntosh's directorship of Truth in Science as being unconnected with his teaching or research.
Jules de Bourousse de Laffore's Étude sur Jules César de Lescale (Agen, 1860) and Adolphe Magen's Documents sur Julius Caesar Scaliger et sa famille (Agen, 1873) add important details to the lives of both father and son.
"No work of the time contains so vivid and picturesque a sketch," was the assessment of The Cambridge History of English and American Literature.
A letter (now lost) giving an account (6 August 1723) of the non-subscription debates in the Belfast sub-synod, which Winder had attended as a visitor, was printed in the Christian Moderator, October 1827 (p.
Television In 2003, Walker moved into television, joining Granada Television in Manchester, as a commentator on the Football League Review show.
However, tree-ring expert Mike Baillie would give credit to Velikovsky after disallowing the impossible aspects of Worlds in Collision: "However, I would not disagree with all aspects of Velikovsky's work.
In Earth orbit, the crew faced minor technical issues, including a potential problem with the environmental control system and the S-IVB third stage's attitude control system, but these were resolved or compensated for.
After the First World War, on the initiative of the Peine city school board in Bruns, the adult education center in Peine had started its activities on November 3, 1919.
Richard Leslie Thompson, also known as Sadaputa Dasa (IAST: Sadāpūta Dāsa; February 4, 1947 – September 18, 2008), was an American mathematician, author and Gaudiya Vaishnava religious figure.
But in spite of its religious bias and dry and uninteresting character, the fragments of ancient writers and apocryphal books preserved in it make it especially valuable.
im Auftrag des Volksbildungsamtes für Stadt und Kreis Peine ( = Monographien Deutscher Städte), Essen; Hannover: Deutscher Städte-Verlag, 1926 table of contents as editor: H.
But in the 1830s, when old-earth geology was endorsed without reservation as a substitute to the Genesis record, much disagreement arose.
The former is known as the Era of Grace in the Coptic Church, whereas the latter is known as the Era of Martyrs.
He came back unconvinced that man-made carbon dioxide emissions were the main driver of climate change.
Works His major work was Palaeologia Chronica; a chronological account of ancient time, in three parts, (1) Didactical; (2) Apodeictical; (3) Canonical, (1677), an attempt to settle ancient chronology.
See also History of scholarship Julian Period – a tricyclic system of years proposed by Scaliger New chronology (Fomenko) References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Christie, Richard Copley; Sandys, John Edwin (1911).
Like many senators, Fielding gained a quota under the Senate's proportional representation system by receiving preferences from other parties (see Australian electoral system).
worked after graduating with the title of Studienrat, Hans Michael Finger worked at the Peiner Lyceum.
Historian Meera Nanda described him as a driving intellectual force of 'Vedic creationism' as co-author (with Michael Cremo) of Forbidden Archeology: The Hidden History of the Human Race (1993), a work that has attracted significant criticism from the scientific community.
The Sanskrit manuscript of the Ravisiddhāntamañjarī was published in the Bibliotheca Indica series, work number 198, by the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal.
Ussher's father, Arland Ussher, was a clerk in chancery who married Stanihurst's daughter, Margaret (by his first wife Anne Fitzsimon), who was reportedly a Roman Catholic.
on the Necessity of Immediate Measures for the Jewish Colonization of Palestine (1849) References External links Online Books page
Anstey's thesis also critiqued other chronological records for their chronological errors compared to the Bible text.
External links George Syncellus: Excerpts from "The Chronography" The Chronography of George Synkellos: A Byzantine Chronicle of Universal History from the Creation Greek Opera Omnia by Migne Patrologia Graeca with analytical indexes
Neither before nor during Constantine's time is there any evidence of a normal, well-established Christian use of the term homoousios in its strictly Trinitarian meaning.
He helped found the Newton Scientific Association, and has supported lectures and talks examining alleged weaknesses of the theory of evolution.
In September 2019, he tabled a motion called "Both Lives Matter", which called for abortion to be restricted.
Robert Pink (Warden of New College), Ussher (who is said to have paid £300 for him), and William Laud, ultimately led to his release.
Castor of Rhodes (Greek: Κάστωρ ὁ Ῥόδιος), also known as Castor of Massalia or Castor of Galatia according to the Suda, or as Castor the Annalist, was a Greek grammarian and rhetorician.
As the minister responsible for the Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs (DAERA), having "issued a similar instruction [in 2021]", Poots unilaterally "ordered all Brexit checks on food and farm products to be stopped" from midnight on 2 February 2022.
Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Stephen, Leslie, ed.
In 1594 he clashed with his father over his Calvinism, moved to Geneva and stayed with a former pupil.
Archaeological remains and dating methods such as dendrochronology (tree-ring dating) refute, rather than support, "phantom time".
In addition to the negative attributes, only relative attributes can be predicated of God; for even these latter, however many may be assumed, since they do not apply to the essence of God but only to Its relation to the world, produce no modification in the notion of the unity of the Divine Being.
Notes References Theodor Harmsen, ‘Dodwell, Henry (1641–1711)’, Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, Sept 2004
He was appointed to the consistory at Kassel, and then went in 1627 to Köthen, where he died on 30 July 1635.
Walker left Football Focus after 12 years on 22 May 2021; he continued as a presenter on BBC Breakfast and BBC Sport.
"Spheroidal and elliptical galaxy radial velocity dispersion determined from Cosmological General Relativity".
The only Jewish philosophical works that Ibn Daud had before him, according to his own statement, were Saadia's Emunoth ve-Deoth, and "The Fountain of Life" by Solomon ibn Gabirol.
In 1710 he printed a pamphlet, New and Easy Method to find out the Longitude; and in 1723 The Moon, a Philosophical Dialogue, arguing that she is not opaque, but has some light of her own.
He wrote also the preface to the first volume of Roger Dodsworth and William Dugdale's Monasticon Anglicanum (1655), which is entitled Propylaion Johannis Marshami; it is a complex survey of English monasticism.
Unlike his contemporaries, he emphasizes the difference between the Hebrew Bible "Apocrypha" and the Hebraica veritas of the protocanonical books.
1962 Mar;12:275-80.) The excretion of synthetic oestrogens as ethereal sulphates and monoglucuronides in the rabbit and in man (Biochem J.
Finally there appeared in 1643 the first three volumes of the Dogmata theologica (dated 1644); the fourth and fifth volumes were published in 1650; the work was incomplete at Pétau's death, and despite several attempts was never continued.
At the time of his birth, Melitene was part of the Turkoman Danishmend dynasty, and after its division in 1142, it became the capital of a principality.
They argued that promoting views that were unsupported by scientific and physical evidence directly contributed to the proliferation of pseudoscience.
He was pastor of the congregational church in Norwich from 1657, but was ejected following the Act of Uniformity 1662.
The Call of Christ unto Thirsty Sinners, to come to Him and drink of the waters of life (Three Sermons on John VII vs 37).
Around this time, he had copied for himself a Hebrew Gospel, of which fragments are preserved in his notes.
Heinrich Heinsohn was stationed in Gotenhafen and died before his son was born when his submarine U-438 was sunk.
After studying Hebrew, Hayes in 1736 published his Vindication of the History of the Septuagint, and in 1738 Critical Examination of the Holy Gospels according to St.
In addition, in his new position as organizer, he was also responsible for "concerts, showing cultural films and theater performances".
His father, William Dodwell, who lost his property in Connacht during the Irish rebellion, was married to Elizabeth Slingsby, daughter of Sir Francis Slingsby and settled at York in 1648.
For most of the 1950s and early 1960s, Velikovsky was persona non grata on college and university campuses.
The Centuries of Darkness (CoD) debate has recently been met with increased interest, partly due to the organisation of three colloquiums on the subject of ancient World Chronology.
In March 2012, Walker said that he was "staggered by the depth of feeling and shock" on the Sunday when Speed's death was announced.
The publication of the Opera selecta forced Hardouin's superiors to make their disapproval of his system public.
As well as disputing written chronologies, Fomenko also disputes scientific dating techniques such as dendrochronology and radiocarbon dating (see Radiocarbon dating § Carbon exchange reservoir for an examination of the latter criticism).
In 2006, Walker started working in London, in 2008, his first moment presenting on national television being an interview on Henman Hill at 2008 Wimbledon Championships, when Andy Murray was playing Richard Gasquet.
Grant is the founder of Franklin Classical School, a K - 12, college preparatory, classical school in Franklin, Tennessee.
Both the Institute for the Development of Indian Law and the Institute of American Indian Law sought to develop and provide legal training and assistance to Native American tribes, organizations, and courts.
But the Prime Mover is infinite; for, since it itself is without motion, its force also remains unaffected by the motion of change and transformation.
Attached to the symbol was the phrase "by this conquer" (ἐν τούτῳ νίκα, en toútōi níka), a phrase often rendered into Latin as "in hoc signo vinces".
Topper has also written about the Book of Revelation (Das letzte Buch, 1993), about Reincarnation beliefs from a historical and ethnological perspective (Wiedergeburt, 1988), Sufism in North Africa (Sufis und Heilige im Maghreb, 1984/1991), and popular traditions in Morocco.
He also directs the School of Theology, an annual conference for pastors and Christian workers at the Metropolitan Tabernacle.
He also used his own observation, experience and wit, and wrote in a conversational tone without pedantry, which has made the work a classic.
The terrestrial clock technology co-developed by him is claimed to be the most stable in the universe, with Hartnett et al.
In this capacity he succeeded John Harvard, who had died in September 1638 little more than a year after arriving in Charlestown.
Sarfati is a critic of geocentrism, the Myth of the flat Earth and flat Earth teaching, homosexual behaviour, and abortion except to save the life of the mother.
After employment in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire he returned to the railway's new statistics office and quickly became recognised as a skilled statistician.
His earliest publications, related to finance, were Metallic, Paper, and Credit Currency, 1842, and a Letter to the Right Hon.
On 1 July 2009, Poots was returned to the Executive as Minister of the Environment, in charge of the Department of the Environment.
The implicit rejection of the Bible's eyewitness account was thought condescending, sidetracking a typical Bible student from gaining a knowledge of nature from the Bible.
These two variables were understood neither by Dionysius nor by the other western computists, who were used to working with the age of the moon on 1 January and the Sunday letters to determine the Sundays.
Laurence's, Reading, he published (1656) an answer to the 'quaking doctrines' of Thomas Speed of Bristol; and he engaged in controversy (1659) with Edward Burrough.
Monkwearmouth's sister monastery at Jarrow was founded by Ceolfrith in 682, and Bede probably transferred to Jarrow with Ceolfrith that year.
Life Burton was the second son of George Burton (1685-1758), who held the manor of Burton Lazars in Leicestershire and in 1710 served as High Sheriff of Leicestershire, and his wife Elizabeth Champion (1683-1739).
In 1996, he returned to Brisbane, Australia to work for the Creation Science Foundation, then Answers in Genesis, then its current name Creation Ministries International.
This method built upon the tables of Eusebius of Caesarea, was expanded by Jacob of Edessa, and later developed by Michael himself.
Within hours of Givan being sworn in as First Minister, DUP officials convened a party meeting to oust Poots as the leader of the party.
The Alternative Cosmology Group (ACG) meeting...in Geneva, Switzerland...Professor Hartnett says alternative models suggested ranged from a universe with no beginning or end, to one that was static and did not expand, while others were postulated existing inside shells of matter and energy.
And he used to repeat that sentence from St Paul "It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God," and many other verses of Scripture, urging us thereby to awake from the slumber of the soul by thinking in good time of our last hour.
In 1950, after eight publishing houses rejected the Worlds in Collision manuscript, it was finally published by Macmillan, which had a large presence in the academic textbook market.
(1984), "Review: Mechanistic and Nonmechanistic Science: An Investigation Into the Nature of Consciousness and Form by Richard L.
His chief authorities were Annianus of Alexandria and Panodorus of Alexandria, through whom George acquired much of his knowledge of the history of Manetho; George also relied heavily on Eusebius, Dexippus and Sextus Julius Africanus.
By the 6th century, the term "Scythian" could mean an inhabitant of Scythia Minor, or simply someone from the north-east of the Greco-Roman world, centred on the Mediterranean.
Worked as researcher of computer geometry in Russian Space Research Institute, in Moscow Machine Tools and Instruments Institute, in University of Aizu in Japan.
Dembski wrote that Wilder-Smith's "intuitive ideas about information has been the impetus for much of my research." Wilder-Smith had never used the phrase "intelligent design" itself.
Although this idea doesn't hold much credibility within mainstream research, his discovery of rock paintings and engravings presented in the book have been favourably received and quoted by academic researchers.
Titles include Die Große Aktion [The Big Action] (1998), Erfundene Geschichte [Invented History] (1999), Fälschungen der Geschichte [Faked History] (2001), and ZeitFälschung [Faking Time] (2003).
In 1714 Winder succeeded Edward Rothwell as minister of the independent congregation at Tunley, Lancashire, and was ordained at St.
Background Born in Ararat, Victoria, Sarfati moved with his family to New Zealand as a child, where he became a dual Australian and New Zealand citizen.
Ystebø was the assistant editor of the Christian conservative newspaper Norge Idag from its founding in 1999 until 2022.
While GIF was developed by CompuServe, it used the Lempel–Ziv–Welch (LZW) lossless data compression algorithm patented by Unisys in 1985.
The main concern was contamination of the water, but the papers went to great lengths to note the care taken to avoid this.
The elongation and reduction in area were also slightly higher than the averages for hot-rolled steel.
Bosworth proposed that the term refers to a military technique of rapid shooting of five arrows in succession.
Other common ingredients included lemon, apple, pomegranate, tamarind, jujube, sumac, musk, mint and ice.
When impact is directed perpendicular to the bands, the lamination interfaces are effectively protected, deflecting the cracks and increasing the energy required for cracks to propagate through the material.
This grain is the main ingredient in injera, the fermented flatbread that is a staple food in Ethiopian and Eritrean cuisines.
Manchester Baby, a developmental, fully electronic computer that successfully ran a stored program on 21 June 1948.
In the Iberian Peninsula, the Roman system was adopted for the heating of Hispano-Islamic baths (hammams) of Al Andalus.
During an 'unstart' the efficient shock system would be replaced by a very inefficient single shock beyond the inlet and an intake pressure recovery of about 0.3 and a correspondingly low pressure ratio.
Judge Sotomayor wrote: "Congress has amended the patent laws to account for concerns about 'bad' patents, including by expanding the reexamination process to provide for inter partes proceedings.
The competition, open to designers, artists, architects, students, environmentalists, and organizations world-wide, has been dubbed "Socially-Responsible Design's Highest Award" by Metropolis Magazine.
The authors retracted the study in a statement published in Nature Biotechnology on 3 August 2017, citing the continued inability of the research community to replicate their results.
From the jar, the electrical charge could then be released into the patient, producing a shock akin to "touching a doorknob after walking across carpet in dry weather".
It is manufactured by KosherSwitch Technologies headquartered in New York City and was invented by Andy Menashe Kalati.
Tunnels Aqueducts sometimes run for some or all of their path through tunnels constructed underground.
After the British side published their decision, Leibniz published his, more general, and, thus, formally won this competition.
Insurance is available to help protect companies from inadvertently infringing a third party's patents.
The program offers a novel approach to curriculum delivery, expanded clinical opportunities, and interprofessional education, with PA students taking courses alongside MD students.
Physics Discovery of electroweak interaction by Abdus Salam, along with two Americans Sheldon Glashow and Steven Weinberg.
Its invention improved the hygiene and living conditions of citizens, and was a forerunner of modern central heating.
Shoegaze: a subgenre of indie and alternative rock pioneered by Scottish bands such as Cocteau Twins and The Jesus and Mary Chain.
In Highland Park, New Jersey, pedestrian crossing lights cycle automatically on the Sabbath, though they are operated by buttons during the week.
Computing The Intel 8088 – This microprocessor, designed at Intel's Haifa laboratory, powered the first PC that IBM built, which is credited with kickstarting the PC revolution.
To prevent this, air humidity is kept low, below 50%, and floor temperatures are maintained above the dew point, 19 °C (66F).
He attended anyway and made use of the university's research labs, and he earned a Junior Radio-Trician certification from the National Radio Institute, and full certification in 1925.
The concept continues to be meticulously honored by modern woodworkers, who are aware of the difficult process involved.
Study traces of ancient earthquakes in caves to develop a new methodology for predicting earthquakes.
Literary references to water-powered marble saws in Trier, Germany, can be found in Ausonius' late 4th century AD poem Mosella.
An Archimedes' screw, under Dalley's supervision, was constructed from Sennacherib's inscription as part of a BBC documentary to determine if the screw was known in Assyria, with Oleson supervising the construction of a screw using Vitruvius's description in De Architectura.
Notable recipients include: Recent winners See also Carl Roman Abt, A past recipient (1889) References External links The award webpage Archived 2020-03-16 at the Wayback Machine The Franklin Institute: The John Scott Legacy Medal "The John Scott Award Recipients".
Many historical developments that are considered to have had a significant impact upon our modern understanding of chemistry are also considered to have been key discoveries in such fields as physics, biology, astronomy, geology, and materials science.
According to Coandă's description the wings were built with metal spars, but existing photographs of the construction show a completely wooden internal structure.
1992, Speed Gun, a device that measures the speed of cricket balls, was invented by Henri Johnson from Somerset West and used in the 1999 Cricket World Cup.
During this period motive power was confined to steam locomotives, some of which by mid-century were capable of top speeds of 80 miles per hour (130 km/h), with average express journey speeds of 50–60 mph (80–97 km/h).
Ring dials In a ring dial (also known as an Aquitaine or a perforated ring dial), the ring is hung vertically and oriented sideways towards the sun.
Gaseous isotopes such as 3He or 129Xe must be hyperpolarized and then inhaled as their nuclear density is too low to yield a useful signal under normal conditions.
It was the first high-speed Direct Current intercity Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) train with rheostatic brake.
Lost wax casting: a detailed, full-field photoluminescence study of a 6,000 year old copper "wheel" amulet from Mehrgarh in Balochistan has opened the door to many new facts about this period of history.
The authors remarked that the discussion of the principles of flight in the text was largely perfunctory and incorrect, in some cases violating Newton's laws of motion.
Jury The jury is made up of the Minister of Education, who calls it, two academics assigned by the Council of Rectors, the President of the National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT), and the last recipient of the prize.
Furthermore, a device capable of shooting five arrows simultaneously has been described in the work of Ā'īn-Nāmah.
First dementia-friendly checkout — Tesco supermarket in Chester claimed to be the "First known supermarket to implement a dementia-friendly checkout." See also == References ==
Cold wave: a music genre that emerged with French, as well as Belgian and Polish musicians in the late 1970s.
In an undiluted form, distilled beverages are often slightly sweet and bitter and typically impart a burning mouthfeel with an odor derived from the alcohol and the production and aging processes; the exact flavor varies between different varieties of liquor and the different impurities they impart.
It was the first device to transmit a voice via electronic signals, and is regarded by some as the first telephone.
When loading a new bolt and spanning the drawstring, the windlass is rotated counterclockwise by an operator standing on the left side of the weapon; this drives the mensa forward towards the bow string.
Armstrong thought that FM had the potential to replace AM stations within 5 years, which he promoted as a boost for the radio manufacturing industry, then suffering from the effects of the Great Depression.
When the nozzles, pointing in different directions, produce forces along different lines of action perpendicular to the axis of the bearings, the thrusts combine to result in a rotational moment (mechanical couple), or torque, causing the vessel to spin about its axis.
These findings provide the first large-scale dendrochronological evidence for the geographic and environmental origins of Stradivari's wood and offer new insights into both historical instrument making and the interplay between climate, materials, and musical heritage.
As a consequence, none of Starr's partners were available for testimony in the lawsuits surrounding Thomas Edison's lamp patents.
Jackson's editorial drew heavily upon information provided by aviation researcher John Brown, whom he complimented for his work.
UK's first Neighbourhood Watch First known stagecoach ran between Birmingham and Holywell via Nantwich and Chester, 1637.
Payne Faraday cage – Michael Faraday First law of thermodynamics demonstrated that electric circuits obey the law of the conservation of energy and that electricity is a form of energy .
(See #Multiple dials, above.) The dials are attached to and aligned with each other, and are oriented so they show the same time.
There were to be two independent endless cables, one between City station and Elephant and Castle moving at 10 mph (16 km/h), and the other between Elephant and Castle and Stockwell, where the gradient was less, at 12 mph (19 km/h).
Automotive and Engineering Ezekiel Izuogu Multi-core processor — Processor with multiple CPUs, by computer scientist and Stanford professor Kunle Olukotun.
This type of altiplano field agriculture consists of parallel canals alternated by raised planting beds, which would be strategically located on floodplains or near a water source so that the fields could be properly irrigated.
Each frame can designate one index as a "transparent background color": any pixel assigned this index takes on the color of the pixel in the same position from the background, which may have been determined by a previous frame of animation.
China had plans to spend 200 billion yuan ($32 billion) over the next five years to increase tram tracks to more than 1,200 miles.
He gave his vaccine to just 23 more children before declaring it safe and sending it out to doctors and health departments for a larger test of efficacy.
A form of auditory beats stimulation that uses alternating tones may be considered a derivative of isochronic tones; alternatively, isochronic tones can be considered, along with monaural beats and binaural beats, to be a subtype of auditory beats stimulation.
2024) was killed when his replica P-51 airplane, designed and built by his own company, crashed into a tree during a failed landing.
British watchmakers used the English detached lever, in which the lever was at right angles to the balance wheel.
Paddy fields have also been excavated by archaeologists at Caoxieshan, a site of the Neolithic Majiabang culture.
Meridian lines A horizontal line aligned on a meridian with a gnomon facing the noon-sun is termed a meridian line and does not indicate the time, but instead the day of the year.
The researchers claim this paradigm can be used to "recommend information without any explicit user interaction".
Large electric systems also require skilled designers and tradespeople but this is less so for small floor warming systems.
He is buried in Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C., alongside his wife and a son, Herbert Samuel Berliner.
On 4 July 1908, Glenn Curtiss gave the first widely publicised public demonstration of flight in the USA.
In particular, timing device of Song I-yŏng's Armillary Clock adopts the early 17th century pendulum clock system which could remarkably improve the accuracy of a clock.
According to BBC, the refrigerator's temperature 'can stay at 4°C for more than 10 days without power, and is used mainly in Africa' to store vaccines and other medical supplies.
Insulin from non-human animal sources differs somewhat in effectiveness (in carbohydrate metabolism effects) from human insulin because of these variations.
From primitive intercoms to real telephony Additional inventions such as the call bell, central telephone exchange, common battery, ring tone, amplification, trunk lines, and wireless phones – at first cordless and then fully mobile – made the telephone more versatile and accessible.
Similar to blood circulation in one direction, bird respiratory systems pump air in one direction in rigid lungs, but without any physiological valve.
Chase – Professor of Surgery, founder of Stanford Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Gilbert Chu – Professor of Biochemistry and Medicine Alexander A.
The primary impact of the MFP has been on women's work (on reducing daily drudgery and opening up new opportunities in life) and the UNDP's deployment has been to women's organisations, with part local funding and part local grant.
Berliner, who suffered a nervous breakdown in 1914, also advocated for improvements in public health and sanitation.
Semtex, a general purpose plastic explosive, was invented in the late 1950s by Stanislav Brebera and Radim Fukátko, chemists at VCHZ Synthesia.
In Grass Valley, California, he built a steam-powered airplane and claimed that he flew it on May 15, 1902.
The JPEG committee investigated the patent claims in 2002 and were of the opinion that they were invalidated by prior art, a view shared by various experts.
Genoese and Florentine communities were established in Portugal, which profited from the enterprise and financial experience of these rivals of the Republic of Venice.
The Berthold Leibinger Innovationspreis is an award for given to those who have created applied laser technology and innovations on the application or generation of laser light.
Sauer (1999) and Todorov (2005) agree with Corry, Renn and Satchel that Hilbert's proofs show that Hilbert had originally presented a non-covariant theory, which was dropped from the revised paper.
Yoruba numerals – The Yoruba people developed a sophisticated vigesimal (base-20) numeration system that required complex subtraction to express numbers.
The presiding judge in the lawsuits, John Michael Vazquez, in January 2018 made it clear he felt the municipalities did not have a strong case and urged them to settle.
Research in 2023 has shown that the incorporation of mixtures of different types of lime, forming conglomerate "clasts" allowed the concrete to self-repair cracks.
Initially scheduled to be withdrawn in 2006, the last three remaining sets (R61/R67/R68) remained in service until 30 November 2008.
Inventions and improvements The following is a list of inventions, innovations or discoveries known or generally recognized to be Bangladeshi.
The Arctic Circle E, and the Antarctic Circle F, each circle 231⁄2 degrees from its respective pole at N and S.
This is a list of lost inventions - technologies whose capabilities can no longer be produced in their original form.
The Lightning Process suggests that while this disruption initially happens at an unconscious level, it is possible for the patient to exert conscious control and influence over the process, eventually breaking the cycle.
Like real-life gachapon machines, players attained randomly chosen game items when they used the ticket on "Gachapon", an in-game booth that was distributed across the game world.
In April 1923, Cook and 24 other Fort Worth oil promoters were indicted in a federal crackdown on fraudulent oil company promotions.
Abel Gideon (played by Eddie Izzard), to convince him that he is the main antagonist of the series, the Chesapeake Ripper.
At the time, its technology was considered the first of its kind during the initial expansion of the World Wide Web.
History CompuServe introduced GIF on 15 June 1987 to provide a color image format for their file downloading areas.
The Frazier lens provides a massive depth of field, allowing the foreground and background of an image to be in focus.
His voice began to fail as his lung disease became more pronounced, and in the summer of 1873, he was obliged to forsake his tutoring duties for several weeks.
Recycold Cool Solutions BV, a Dutch-based manufacturer of sustainable cool packs made from plant-based materials, purchased in 2021.
Inspired by the possible link of the nematode and tumour, he performed experiments to induce tumours with nematode infection.
Chang - Chief Scientific Officer of Amgen; winner of the 2024 Albany Medical Center Prize, 2024 Lurie Prize in Biomedical Sciences, 2024 King Faisal Prize in Biology, 2024 Stanley J.
By the 1950s, the jet engine was almost universal in combat aircraft, with the exception of cargo, liaison and other specialty types.
1908–1911: Creation of dihydrocodeine 1909, 1929: First intrauterine device (IUD) by Richard Richter (of Waldenburg, in 1909), and the first ring (Gräfenberg's ring, 1929) used by a significant number of women by Ernst Gräfenberg.
2011, Jun 14: Nokia and Apple settle their litigation with Apple agreeing to pay Nokia an undisclosed one-time payment as well as continuing royalties.
He worked in Landstrass (Kostanjevica on the Krka river in Carniola), where he tested his ship propellers for the first time.
Through it all the evidentiary standard adopted in §282 has gone untouched." The courts also issued and confirmed a permanent injunction against Microsoft.
ScotRail Inter7City Twenty-six HST sets, nine with four coaches and 17 with five coaches, moved from Great Western Railway to Abellio ScotRail after being refurbished by Wabtec at Doncaster Works with new interiors, controlled emission tanks and automatic sliding doors.
McKeen was the superintendent of motive power and machinery at Union Pacific Railroad in 1904 when Edward H.
The first part of the argument proves that N and P(N) have different cardinalities: There exists at least one infinite set.
The CPAP system first developed by Sullivan has become the most common treatment for sleep disordered breathing.
Louis speech (The Principles of Mathematical Physics) of September 1904, and Poincaré's June 1905 paper.
Nägele Robert Plagwitz Kurt Schönenberger Wilhelm Staffel 1968: Georg Bergler Karl Breuer Franz Josef Fleißner Armin Heim Rudolf Kellermann Lorenz Anton Kersting Wilhelm Kölsch Karl Krauß Hellmut Kreß Alfred Krohe Harald Loebermann Herbert Matis Herbert Müller-Neuhaus Stanford R.
A third pair of tunnels was to be constructed under the Thames to connect with the original abandoned tunnels north of Borough station, and then the C&BR route was to be constructed as previously approved with connections to the existing C&SLR route at London Bridge and Oval.
In 1855, he completed his year of military service at Kassel, then returned to Frankfurt to qualify as a teacher of mathematics and science by means of private study and public lectures.
Founded in the 18th century, the Shakers, a celibate sect who lived a communal lifestyle, were known for their many innovative creations in varied fields including agriculture, furniture, housework, and medicine.
First mechanical metronome by Étienne Loulié in 1696 (but the modern form of the metronome was patented only in 1815).
History China Throughout Chinese history, astronomers have created celestial globes (Chinese: 渾象; pinyin: húnxiàng) to assist the observation of the stars.
Once the payment is made, the photo booth will take a series of photographs and the customer is then provided with prints.
Computing Lingo, a high-level scripting language for animation, audio, and interactivity in Adobe Director, by John Henry Thompson.
20th century The first electrified railway in Austria-Hungary was built by František Křižík from Tábor to Bechyně in 1903.
As well as Co-discovered Tulipa albanica, a distinct tulip species in Albania, alongside Besnik Hallaçi and L.
As regenerative turbine pumps cannot become vapor locked, they are commonly applied to volatile, hot, or cryogenic fluid transport.
Von Ohain's design, an axial-flow engine, as opposed to Whittle's centrifugal flow engine, was eventually adopted by most manufacturers by the 1950s.
Lucien Alphonse Legros, on the basis that they had "worked loyally and very hard" at their allotted tasks, they had been well-paid as consulting engineers, and had neither invented nor discovered any of the special features that were ultimately incorporated in the tanks.
Modern aqueducts Navigable aqueducts Navigable aqueducts, also called water bridges, are water-filled bridges to allow vessels on a waterway to cross ravines or valleys.
At first, two railcars with petrol engine and mechanical transmission were built, but they did not fit the demands.
The efforts of home movie aficionados to intertitle their works post-production led to the development of a number of innovative approaches to the challenge.
The KosherSwitch seeks to improve upon existing innovations by allowing light fixtures to be triggered on or off as needed by a person acting on Shabbat.
On June 4, 2013, President Obama referenced patent trolls and directed the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) to take five new actions to help stem the surge in patent-infringement lawsuits tying up the court system.
Pollok gives a party in my honor - and I expect to meet Sir Edward Thornton and members of the other foreign Embassies.
See also Extrasensory perception List of psychic abilities Paranormal Psionics (role-playing games) Psychotronic harassment Psychotronics (parapsychology) Radionics References Further reading Clute, John; Nicholls, Peter (1995).
The idea has been to place an MFP in a village which, driven by a diesel engine, powers devices such as pumps and grain mills and generators.
The omission of Robert Gallo was controversial: 106 scientists signed a letter to the journal Science stating that "While these awardees fully deserve the award, it is equally important to recognize the contributions of Robert C.
151–179 Wikander, Örjan (2000), "The Water-Mill", in Wikander, Örjan (ed.), Handbook of Ancient Water Technology, Technology and Change in History, vol.
It has been claimed (based on paleoclimatic assumptions) that chickens were domesticated in Southern China in 6000 BC.
However, the misuse defense is difficult against a patent troll because antitrust violations typically involved require significant market power on the part of the patent holder.
Brazilian Alfredo Moser invented a way of illuminating a house during the day without electricity, using plastic bottles inserted through the roof, of benefit to people with few resources living in simple dwellings.
The resultant hydrogen gas was then burned, resulting in the reconstitution of the water molecules in another unit separate from the unit in which water was separated.
[T]he cooperative approach, first recommended by Francis Bacon, was essential to making science open to peer review and public verification, and not just a matter of the lone [individual] issuing...
Azeotropic process Interactions between the components of the solution create properties unique to the solution, as most processes entail non-ideal mixtures, where Raoult's law does not hold.
Leishman (1865–1926) Electrocardiography: Alexander Muirhead (1869) Discovery of Staphylococcus: Sir Alexander Ogston (1880) Discovering insulin: John Macleod (1876–1935) with others The discovery led him to be awarded the 1923 Nobel prize in Medicine.
The sledge was blessed by Russian Orthodox priests at the Despujols plant near Paris on 2 December 1910.
They cited a slew of Supreme Court cases on patents that have changed precedent as well as changes at the U.S.
On December 15, 2008, newly elected President Barack Obama nominated Steven Chu to be the Secretary of Energy.
A Hindi translation was published in 1959, while the Sanskrit text with an English translation was published in 1973.
Chow, a China-born Taiwanese researcher who collaborated with Roberts, should have had part of the prize.
It was learned that not only had the CIA funded Cameron's efforts, but also that the Canadian government was aware of this, and had later provided another $500,000 in funding to continue the experiments.
The Netherlands and its people have made contributions to the arts, science, technology and engineering, economics and finance, cartography and geography, exploration and navigation, law and jurisprudence, thought and philosophy, medicine.
In particular, the Michelson–Morley experiment did not give a zero speed difference, but at most 8 km/s, without being able to detect any regularity.
At around that time, Pablo Santos Sanz, a student of José Luis Ortiz Moreno at the Instituto de Astrofísica de Andalucía at Sierra Nevada Observatory in southern Spain, claims to have examined the backlog of photos that the Ortiz team had started taking in December 2002.
Consequently, the market is more mature and systems relatively more affordable than less developed markets such as North America where market share for fluid based systems remains between 3% and 7% of HVAC systems (ref.
See also Chinese exploration List of China-related topics List of Chinese inventions List of inventions and discoveries of Neolithic China History of Chinese archaeology History of science and technology in China History of typography in East Asia Notes References Citations === Sources ===
A Agriculture – The Kuk Swamp site in the highlands of New Guinea provides evidence of independent agricultural origins dating back to c.
Guanahaní (meaning "small upper waters land") was the Lucayan name of an island in the Bahamas that was the first land in the New World sighted and visited by Christopher Columbus' first voyage, on 12 October 1492.
In 1991, the French Academy of Sciences published his latest results, obtained under the supervision of Alfred Spira, a statistician, in its weekly Proceedings.
The second volume contains Edison's exhibits, including photo-lithographs of laboratory drawings, patents and patent applications, and newspaper and journal articles.
This case in widely considered as a prime example of a frivolous lawsuit by a patent troll, underscoring the need for a reform of the US patent law.
Together, the works proposed in these Bills would enable the CCE&HR's trains to run over the C&SLR's route and vice versa, effectively combining the two separate railways.
Nature has therefore arranged for independent investigators to observe repetitions of the experiments." The last time such a disclaimer had been added was in 1974 to an article on Uri Geller.
David Shirley had proposed in the early 1990s building this new synchrotron source specializing in imaging materials using extreme ultraviolet to soft x-rays.
Red Bull (1976) by Chaleo Yoovidhya Siracha produced by Thanom Chakkapak in the town of Si Racha (or Sriracha), Thailand.
In 1963, trivalent OPV (TOPV) was licensed, and became the vaccine of choice in the United States and most other countries of the world, largely replacing the inactivated polio vaccine.
An independent inventor is a person who creates inventions independently, rather than for an employer.
Affordable neurohacking devices are available online with prices ranging from $99 to $800, making them easily accessible to consumers.
The lance was developed to be an energy-efficient smelting process and improve the tin-smelting processes with the final process being called the ISASMELT process.
For example, in the United Kingdom, certain commercial banks in Scotland and Northern Ireland continue to print their own banknotes for domestic circulation, even though they are not fiat money or declared in law as legal tender anywhere.
Automatic crank: The non-manual crank appears in several of the hydraulic devices described by the Banū Mūsā brothers in their Book of Ingenious Devices.
In 2010, Rozov quit his job as a software developer and product manager and spent two years developing his laundry-folding device.
In 1962, MITI banned Fairchild from further investments in the factory that they already purchased in Japan, and Noyce tried to enter the Japanese market through the corporation NEC.
Ashfield aimed for regulation that would give the existing Group protection from competition and allow it to take substantive control of the LCC's tram system; Morrison preferred full public ownership.
Department of Energy announced a $1 million prize for innovative hydrogen storage materials which was to be awarded in February 2011.
Remoska is a small portable electric oven with the cooking element housed in the lid of a pot that consists of a Teflon-lined pan and a stand in addition to the lid mounted heating element.
1957, Flame ionization detector by Harley and Pretorius at the University of Pretoria in Pretoria, South Africa 1959, Tellurometer was the first successful microwave electronic distance measurement equipment and was also invented by Dr.
On the other hand, if the distance a from the fulcrum to the input force is less than the distance b from the fulcrum to the output force, then the lever reduces the input force.
He also published "anonymous" slanders of Newton regarding their controversy which he tried, initially, to claim he was not author of.
Characteristics The aircraft was originally powered by two steam engines with a total power of 30 horsepower (22 kW).
It consists of a head of tightly clustered bristles, onto which toothpaste is applied, mounted on a handle that facilitates cleaning hard-to-reach areas of the mouth.
Smartphones As of 2022, most mobile phones are smartphones, being a combination of a mobile phone and a personal computing device in the same unit.
Inventions That Changed the World is a five-part BBC Two documentary series presented by Jeremy Clarkson.
The RRP granules represent 0.3-0.7% of the total insulin-containing granule population, and they are found immediately adjacent to the plasma membrane.
Economics The Human Development Index was devised by Pakistani economist Mahbub ul Haq in 1990 and had the explicit purpose "to shift the focus of development economics from national income accounting to people centered policies".
Others complained of nonresidents crowding parks and claimed that they had been visited by people wanting to buy their homes.
See also Alexander Graham Bell Bell Telephone Memorial Marcellus Bailey Elisha Gray and Alexander Bell telephone controversy References Evenson, A.
It is made of a synthetic rubber called thermoplastic elastomer which has been independently tested and compliant to EU and FDA regulations.
The total solar eclipse of August 11, 1999 had been a good opportunity to solve a 45-year mystery, thanks to an international collaboration.
Whalen, Eamon, "The Man Who Saw It Coming: Rob Wallace warned us that industrial agriculture could cause a deadly pandemic, but no one listened.
Dean, who was trying to find potential buyers for his technology, was secretive about the details of how it was supposed to work, but it was said to contain asymmetrical rotating weights and to generate a great deal of vibration.
Modern attempts to recreate the heat ray The heat ray has been the subject of ongoing debate about its credibility since the Renaissance.
The concept of "having the same number" or "having the same cardinality" can be captured by the idea of one-to-one correspondence.
The prize winners are selected from eight finalists that present their work person in a jury session.
It worked at the factory but there is disagreement about whether or not it worked satisfactorily after being delivered.
All the energy of New York City (approximately two million horsepower) transformed into rays and projected twenty miles, could not kill a human being, because, according to a well known law of physics, it would disperse to such an extent as to be ineffectual.
Patent litigation has since been reported as primarily initiated by manufacturers, reducing support for a new patent law.
His 1915 epic, The Birth of a Nation, utilized a number of colors, including amber, blue, lavender, and a striking red tint for scenes such as the "burning of Atlanta" and the ride of the Ku Klux Klan at the climax of the picture.
Copyright It is argued that traditional copyright has provided sufficient protection to facilitate massive investment in software development.
Sorrel Deseeder, the first machine to automate the difficult task of separating sorrel calyces from seed pods, by Oral and Allison Turner.
As of 2016, typical chip areas range from a few square millimeters to around 600 mm2, with up to 25 million transistors per square millimeter.
Name Pokito is derived from the Spanish for "a little" - poquito - but is spelled with a "ki" for ease of pronunciation.
The widespread use of the IBM's PC, using the 8088 processor, established the use of x86 architecture as a de facto standard for decades.
On 14 November 2011, the Higher Administrative Court in Cairo overruled the decision and allowed the former NDP members to stand.
Under this system, ballots for president and vice president were separate resulting in different vote totals for each.
The Standard later reported on 22 August that the Kenyan Parliament will reconvene in the next week.
They were widely dubbed the "Tipp-Ex elections" after a brand of correction fluid which opponents claimed had been used to tamper with votes.
General elections were held in Myanmar on 27 May 1990, the first multi-party elections since 1960, after which the country had been ruled by a military dictatorship.
Out of the parties that made it into parliament, only United Kyrgyzstan consistently opposes the incumbent government led by President Jeenbekov.
Gomes Júnior had indicated he wanted to reform the armed forces, with which he had a tense relationship.
The government has also not been able to muster up enough funds to put together a stimulus package, only allocating the equivalent of around US$72 million to assist small- and medium-sized enterprises compared to the tens of billions allocated in nearby countries like Thailand.
Prominent former Cold War hawk Zbigniew Brzezinski cast the election as opposition to renewed Russian imperialism: Russia is more likely to make a break with its imperial past if the newly independent post-Soviet states are vital and stable.
We showed how much money they stole for the so-called "election after the expiration of president Lukashenko's term" this spring, when they tried to organize election and as many as 15,000 out of 11 million came to vote, taking into account falsified votes.
This time, he chose fellow party member Stella Gunia as his vice presidential candidate and the pair garnered 3,400 votes, equal to 4.7% of the total votes cast.
Background Emir Sabah Al-Sabah dissolved the National Assembly of Kuwait on 7 December 2011 citing "deteriorating conditions" amid an increasingly bitter political showdown over alleged high-level corruption.
Candidates Incumbent president Eduard Kokoity was constitutionally barred from serving a third term in office.
In May crown prince Mishal Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah dissolved Parliament and called for election on 6 June 2023.
Two days before the election, visas for 61 foreign journalists were unexpectedly issued to cover the vote.
It also noted the UEC's failure to provide timely access to election data, and that election postponements and cancellations stopped voting for 1.4 million citizens, leaving 24 seats vacant.
Yıldırım, on the other hand, declared on 28 April that he was not someone to seek to win a lost election.
Wyman of New Hampshire (1975) Senate Rules Committee Report Candidates Clash in New Hampshire Senate Contest The Bryan Times, Sept 15, 1975
For the 2024 elections, Harris announced he would once again run for Congress, in the newly drawn 8th district.
The commission also appealed for patience towards journalists until the final results are published.
In popular culture Several documentaries have been made about the day of the referendum, the most known ones being 1-O produced by Mediapro, El primer dia d'octubre produced by La Directa and released for free in YouTube.
TikTok executives said that they had taken down several networks engaged in election interference in Romania.
However, the military junta refused to recognise the results and continued ruling the country until 2011.
Like the precedent the Supreme Court referred to in its decision on the Constitutional Assembly, the ballot papers were of such a make that it was possible to see writing through them when folded.
Once in office, they could be re-elected to a second 5-year term, which is the limit allowed by the Constitution.
He also stated his acceptance on the verdict made to repeat the elections, and further accused the opposition of frustrating IEBC'S capability of handling the elections and attaching the Jubilee administration of interference in the electoral decisions putting it as propaganda.
On 10 June, just two days before the scheduled election, Arthur Nzeribe and the Association for a Better Nigeria, an organization with ties to the military, obtained a high court injunction against the election on the basis of alleged corruption.
Yıldırım and his Justice and Development Party (AK Party) announced that they would contest the results, citing electoral irregularities and a series of enumerating errors when recording results.
Results The accusations made against him did not affect Maga's standing in the polls; he received a majority of the vote in the north, and Apithy and Ahomadégbé-Tomêtin received a majority in the southeast and southwest/central, respectively.
Around 65% of candidates were nominated by either the Forward Kyrgyzstan Party of President Akayev, or the pro-government Democratic Party Adilet.
His supporters captured a local TV station, while Raul Khadjimba's supporters took control over the parliament's building.
The controversy resurfaced again in June 2008, when Khadjimba attended a congress of the Aruaa veteran organisation, of which he is a member.
Raul Khajimba, government candidate Outgoing president Vladislav Ardzinba was by law prohibited from running for a third term, and his health would not have allowed him to either.
The sudden shift in the results triggered accusations of electoral fraud, and the Central Electoral Commissions sent representatives to Primorsky Krai to review the situation.
This would be the last time Democrats won the Class 3 Senate seat from New Hampshire until Maggie Hassan's victory in 2016.
Together with 27 other parties representing diverse political families, the Freedom and Justice Party formed the Democratic Alliance for Egypt.
Basile Adjou won with 84% of the vote, but the results were invalidated due to insufficient voter turnout (turnout was just 26%).
Aftermath On 28 February 1948 the National Electoral Tribunal issued a ruling on the elections with two opinions, the majority signed by magistrates Gerardo Guzmán and José María Vargas, and the minority signed by magistrate Max Koberg.
Party primaries for were held in August and September 1992 to nominate presidential candidates, but these were cancelled by Babangida, citing electoral fraud.
Shamba himself has stated that he wanted to make way for younger politicians, hoping that Abkhazia had entered a new phase of sustained development and conflict-free transfers of power.
A few hours later, with no update on the results, the AKP's Istanbul provincial chairman declared that they had won by around 3,000 votes.
And the bravery of her followers— many of whom were killed as they pursued their belief in a true democracy...
However, on 28 October 2013, President Ankvab dismissed Stanislav Lakoba, over the same issue that had also prompted his resignation in 2009, the issuing of passports to Georgian residents of Abkhazia.
Stanislav Lakoba (Abkhaz: Станислав Лакоба, Georgian: სტანისლავ ლაკობა; 23 February 1953 – 20 September 2025) was an academic and politician from Abkhazia.
Shamba and Adzynba received political support from the Party for Economic Development on 21 July, 10 (out of 12) members of the Association of Youth Organisations on 28 July and the Communist Party 9 August.
Candidates Incumbent President Mohammed Waheed ran as an independent candidate but backed by the Gaumee Itthihaad (National Unity Party) and the Dhivehi Rayyithunge Party.
They were won by the opposition Basutoland Congress Party, but without announcing the results, the ruling Basotho National Party carried out a coup d'état by declaring a state of emergency, annulling the election, dissolving parliament and suspending the constitution.
The military government responded by accusing foreign governments of meddling in Nigerian affairs and seeking to destabilize the country.
As Bagapsh's supporters moved into the building, they encountered guards who fired warning shots into the air.
On 31 May, the Parliament of Abkhazia declared Ankvab "unable" to perform his presidential duties, appointed the parliamentary chairman Valery Bganba as an interim president and called snap presidential election for 24 August.
Former Jayapura Mayor Benhur Tomi Mano of the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) secured 50% of the vote.
Aung San Suu Kyi, a popular opposition figure, ran against General Ne Win's largely disliked associate, Sein Lein.
However, on 1 January 2016 President Michel Martelly announced that the runoff would be held on 17 January, but on 7 January the President changed the date to 24 January.
Background Six weeks before the elections, the electoral system was changed to single non-transferable vote, with voters restricted to voting for only one candidate, having previously been allowed to vote for four under multiple non-transferable vote.
See also 2024 Romanian parliamentary election 2024 elections in the European Union Notes == References ==
Embaló dissolved parliament again on 4 December 2023, claiming an "attempted coup" had prevented him from returning home from COP28 climate conference.
At 5pm, Bagapsh arrived in the palace accompanied by Khajimba, and the two held a half-hour meeting in the Prime Minister's office.
Various media reported on fake images of police violence against civilians that were posted in social networks.
The 2023 Gabonese departmental elections were held on 26 August 2023, alongside the general election for the President and Parliament and local elections the same day.
However, opposition candidate Sergei Bagapsh polled more votes on election day, in what was widely attributed as a backlash against the strong Russian influence in his campaign.
Papers required for the registration of his candidacy were submitted 23 August, and on the same day, he passed the Abkhaz language test.
On 2 September, the central election commission announced that it rejected the registration of Aitaira's candidate Alexander Ankvab on the grounds that he had not lived the whole past five years in Abkhazia and that his proficiency in the Abkhaz language could not be established completely.
Intimidation and bribery were commonplace, and the electoral campaign saw the return of regional loyalties.
Early figures of 893 civilians and 111 agents of the National Police and the Guardia Civil injured may have been exaggerated.
As it turned out, Noriega's cronies had taken bogus tally sheets to the district centers in order to make it appear Duque had won in a landslide.
However, the results of both elections were annulled by the Supreme Court due to widespread irregularities.
Peter on 19 July 1984, and then again on 22 November 1984, after the resignation of Barbados Labour Party member Walter Hinds who was the representative of the constituency in the House of Assembly of Barbados.
The result was that while votes for Toledo declined from 40.24% of the valid votes cast in the first round to 25.67% of the valid votes in the second round, invalid votes jumped from 2.25% in of the total votes cast in the first round to 29.93% of total votes in the second round.
The constitution grants the president the power to appoint the chancellor and, by extension, federal cabinet ministers, Supreme Court justices, military officers, and most major bureaucrats.
The measure is intended to be temporary; its claimed objective being to "re-establish the rule of law" and restore autonomy after new elections.
From 1993 to 1994 he served as First Deputy Chairman of the Supreme Council and from 1994 to 1996 as the First Deputy Speaker of the Supreme Soviet.
COLINA's candidate for second vice president was Aquilino Boyd, former foreign minister, and former ambassador to the United States, the United Nations and, most recently, the Organization of American States.
Outgoing president Ardzinba replaced Raul Khadjimba as a prime-minister with Nodar Khashba, who, before this appointment served in the Ministry of Extraordinary Situations.
In accordance with 1994 Constitution, they called presidential election on 16 May 1999, as from Council's point of view Lukashenko's term was due to end in July.
In June 1994, Abiola was arrested and charged with treason after declaring himself president and commander-in-chief.
Shafeeq Ghabra, professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences at Kuwait University said that, "it's clear that the boycott was very successful." The opposition rejected a unilateral amendment of the electoral law that reduced the number of votes per person from four to one.
On 4 October 2017, he resigned, and Russian President Vladimir Putin appointed Andrey Tarasenko as Acting Governor.
While Democratic Labour Party member Sybil Leacock was declared the winner by one vote in the first election, after the second election, Arthur was declared the winner instead.
For a majority, a party or coalition(s) require 221 seats in the House of Representatives and 113 seats in the House of Nationalities.
Death Iakub Lakoba died in Abkhazian capital Sukhumi on 9 July 2022 due to a serious oncological disease.
Annulation of the results On 17 September, Chairwoman of the Central Election Commission Ella Pamfilova asked the candidates to provide the CEC with materials on possible violations and said that the results of the election will not be approved until the CEC examines all complaints.
Conduct Election law forbade candidates to campaign on 3 October, the day of the presidential elections.
By constituencies Pyithu Hluttaw The list of military appointees was published as the UEC Announcement 1/2016.
He promised large-scale infrastructure renovation, canal recovery, road repairs, and stronger mosquito-control measures throughout the corporation.
However, Marcos was terminally ill and faced a series of challenges to his rule, beginning in 1983 with the Ninoy Aquino assassination, a period of rapid economic decline and civic discontent, and widespread public reporting on corruption and Marcos's misrepresentation of his military record.
He also suggested that in the 22 constituencies in which only one candidate had registered, voter turnout might not reach the required minimum of 20%.
Although neither the Supreme Court of Guinea-Bissau nor the parliament had given its approval for the official swearing-in ceremony, Embaló organized an alternative swearing-in ceremony in a hotel in Bissau to announce himself as legal president of Guinea-Bissau.
Several parties submitted applications for recognition, but only six were approved by the National Electoral Commission, which was handicapped by poor organizational structures and finances and claimed to be unable to verify most of the applicants' claims.
On 20 June, United Abkhazia and Amtsakhara announced that Sergei Bagapsh would be their presidential candidate, and Stanislav Lakoba their vice presidential candidate.
Conduct UNIOGBIS spokesman Vladimir Monteiro said: "The election was held in a very peaceful manner.
Preliminary results for the second round released on 27 November show Dzhioyeva in the lead, with 8,955 votes to Bibilov's 6,205.
Campaign The Republican Socialist Unity Party (PURS) and the Social Democratic Party (PSD) formed the Social Democratic Action alliance to contest the election, with Gabriel Gosalvez of PURS running for president and Roberto Arce of the PSD running for vice-president.
Observers for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) said the run-off vote "did not meet international standards" and U.S.
The Democratic Party rejected the result and on the same day, protests began in Masan against the fabrication of the election results.
The election results showed a victory for Maga with 252,551 votes, 200,091 for Ahomadégbé-Tomêtin, and 186,332 for Apithy.
On 25 November, the head of the ECOWAS observer mission, Issifu Baba Braimah Kamara, said the election had been conducted peacefully.
The Estonian Constituent Assembly was never convened after these elections, because the Communists annulled the elections and Germany occupied the rest of Estonia in the same February.
Protests then occurred, sometimes violent, which included demands for the government to resign and the Shinawatra family to quit Thai politics.
Conduct Several opposition parties called on the government to postpone the election due to the COVID-19 pandemic prior to the campaign period in September.
Romanian Ecologist Party (PER) PER announced on 28 October 2024 its endorsement for Cristian Diaconescu.
If Liberals were successful in all four contests heading to recounts, the government would be one seat shy of majority.
Giovanni Di Stasi (Democrats of the Left) was narrowly elected president, defeating Michele Iorio (Forza Italia).
Though he has headed several Abkhaz delegations to United Nations-sponsored talks with Georgia, Abkhazia has failed to receive any international recognition.
A presidential decree was released on 8 July 2012, reinstating parliament until a new one is elected and mandating that it would write the new constitution instead of the Constitutional Assembly.
Alabama Democrat James Allen voted with the Republicans on grounds that Wyman had presented proper credentials.
However, the results were annulled by the Georgia Supreme Court after the Rose Revolution on 23 November, following allegations of widespread electoral fraud and large public protests which led to the resignation of Shevardnadze.
The Congress did not annul the parliamentary elections where the ruling coalition had been favored, even though the irregularities denounced in the presidential elections applied to both.
Georgian president Salome Zourabichvili also expressed support for Lasconi, just like French President Emmanuel Macron.
The National Unity Party (NUP), which was favoured by the incumbent military junta, came second in terms of vote share with 21% of the vote and fourth in terms of seats, with only 10 seats in the chamber.
On 27 May 2014, Ankvab's headquarters in Sukhumi were stormed by opposition groups led by Raul Khajimba, forcing him into flight to Gudauta in what Ankvab denounced as an "armed coup attempt".
The by-election was fought due to the resignation of the incumbent Conservative MP, William Vesey-FitzGerald, who became Chief Charity Commissioner for England and Wales.
Russian president Dmitry Medvedev offered his condolences saying: "Bagapsh was a loyal supporter of friendship and alliance with Russia, and he tirelessly worked to deepen close bilateral ties between our countries." Legacy A state commission was installed to perpetuate the memory of Sergei Bagapsh.
Candidates The nominee of the governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) is Binali Yıldırım, a former Prime Minister of Turkey and the incumbent Speaker of the Grand National Assembly.
In the elections of December 2017 called by Spanish Prime Minister, parties supporting independence got 47.5% of the votes, but due to the high level of participation that was 33,970 more votes than 'Yes' votes were cast during the referendum.
By the time the three by-elections were held, the Liberal caucus has gained two more Conservative and one NDP defectors, and the government was just one seat shy of majority.
Giffey was elected as Governing Mayor by the Abgeordnetenhaus on 21 December, winning 84 votes out of 139 votes.
Mohammed Morsi, sworn as Egypt's new president on 30 June, has initially refrained from speaking publicly on that (crucial to the extent of his own real power) issue.
On 21 March 2014, the Constitutional Court invalidated the elections on grounds that they were not completed within one day throughout the country.
Michele Iorio (PdL) narrowly defeated Paolo Di Laura Frattura (PD) and secured a third consecutive term as President of Molise.
Awami League The ruling Bangladesh Awami League nominated Sheikh Fazle Noor Taposh as its mayoral candidate.
Dissent to the authoritarian president was more apparent in the urban areas than the rest of the country.
On 20 September, the Regional Election Commission followed this recommendation and officially invalidated the results, leading to a new election held in December.
After all the votes were tallied, Harris had a 905-vote lead over McCready, making the election the closest race in the district in over six decades.
A redo of the election was held on 22 November 1984 where Arthur won the by election with an increased voter turnout of 78.7%.
However, they achieved only 37% of the votes, leaving a majority for parties that supported Estonian independence.
After the new legislators take office, the President and the two Vice Presidents of Myanmar are elected by the Presidential Electoral College, made up of MPs from three committees: one of elected members from each house of the Assembly of the Union, and one from the military-appointed members.
In April 2012, Waheed set the election for July 2013, stating that no earlier election was constitutionally possible.
On 19 September, the CEC unanimously recommended to recognize the results of the gubernatorial election invalid.
Alejandro Maldonado Aguirre was the candidate of the National Opposition Union, an alliance of Guatemalan Christian Democracy and the National Renewal Party.
Dossou-Yovo, Noel (September 1999), "The Experience of Benin", International Journal on World Peace, 16 (3), ISSN 0742-3640, OCLC 211426384.
Member of Parliament (second time) and Chairman of United Abkhazia Shamba was one of the leaders of the protests that led to the May 2014 ouster of President Ankvab.
1, had set four goals for the country: to maintain law and order, improve transportation, improve the humanitarian situation and hold multi-party elections.
They issued a joint statement denouncing the results as "anti-democratic" and called for the people's vote to be respected.
Maga served the first two-year term, before handing over to Ahomadégbé in 1972, who was then removed from office by a coup led by Mathieu Kérékou later in the year.
Khashba also added that his registration would not stand a chance of being accepted because he failed the residency requirement.
Aftermath Following the elections, Ahmed Al-Sadoun was elected Speaker, defeating Mohammed Al-Sager.
Embaló, who is eligible to run for a second term, has given contradictory signs about his intentions.
On 5 December the presidential candidates Sergei Bagapsh and Raul Khadjimba agreed to hold new elections.
564/1992), the presidential election vote should be cancelled: despite the court's own ruling that this interpretation does not and may not have any influence on this referendum and that referendums already accepted by the President could not be cancelled for that reason.
However on 26 November, a coup d'état occurred a day before the official results were expected to be released, resulting in Embaló's arrest and the formation of the High Military Command for the Restoration of National Security and Public Order by the country's military.
Benhur Tomi Mano (PDI-P), former two-term mayor of Jayapura, elected member of the House of Representatives.
Nevertheless, in an interview with the newspaper Nuzhnaya on 17 November, Lakoba stated that as a private citizen he supported Khajimba's candidacy and he praised his work in the Security Council.
The Papua General Elections Commission declared that Yermias Bisai's candidacy was valid and certified the election result.
Electoral system The Maldives has Presidential system of government where the president is both head of state and government.
No president in the history of independent Guinea-Bissau has completed his term in office: Three presidents have been ousted, one was assassinated, and another died in office.
Government responded to this report by announcing its refusal to provide funding to complete the Haitian elections.
Due to President Ardzinba's deteriorating health, Jergenia could lead Abkhazia politically, unlike previous Prime Ministers, who had mainly concerned themselves with economic policy.
The majority of the seats were won by non-Baluch candidates and on 12 October 1979 ethnic unrest occurred in the city, before the result was annulled.
They were the culmination of a transition from military to civilian rule spearheaded by incumbent president Ibrahim Babangida.
The National Electoral Tribunal was created for the first time in charge of supervising the elections so that it was not the government (as it was until then) that regulated them and thus appeased the moods that accused the government of interfering in favor of the official candidate.
The terms of Senators and Deputies (elected in 1933) then in office were prorogued to 5 August 1936, by Act of National Congress on 4 August 1935.
References Bibliography Decalo, Samuel (April 1973), "Regionalism, Politics, and the Military in Dahomey", The Journal of Developing Areas, 7 (3), College of Business, Tennessee State University: 449–478, JSTOR 4190033.
Nationwide protests were held in May, June, and July 2019 in which supporters of the opposition accused the results of being rigged by Mutharika and Jane Ansah, chairperson of the Malawi Electoral Commission, calling for Ansah’s resignation.
On 29 March, he stated that 132,038 signatures had been submitted to the election commission in his support.
Although Juan Pereda of the Nationalist Union of the People won the presidential elections according to official statements, more votes were cast than there were registered voters.
The following day, all of the Commission members tendered their resignation citing the circumstances that had arisen and the harmony necessary for the Commission to carry out its functions.
Recognition of Abkhazia by Russia In August 2008, the Russo-Georgian War began following the 2008 Russo-Georgian diplomatic crisis.
According to the opposition, the government engineered the division in the party to sow confusion among the electorate.
In particular, according to the CEC website, if we compare the results after processing 98.77% of the protocols and after processing 99.03% of the protocols, the results of Ishchenko fell by 5 votes, and Tarasenko grew by 13,595 votes.
In the Maldives, the president is elected by a majority or more than fifty (50%) percent of the votes cast.
Composed of five Democrats and three Republicans, the Rules Committee deadlocked 4–4 on a proposal to seat Wyman pending further review.
Results President Chamber of Representatives The 166 members of the Chamber of Representatives were elected; 85 for a four-year term 81 for a two-year term.
Responding to concerns about vote tampering and violent protests, Morales asked the Organization of American States (OAS) to conduct an audit of the vote count.
If no candidates are registered for the southern provinces, this requirement will not be met and the new House of Representatives will be unable to meet.
Jessica Dowless tabulated the number of ballots delivered to the county election board and said McCrae gave the Harris campaign updates on the operation's most recent totals.
The newly elected Supreme Council formally opened on 27 March, with Omurbek Tekebayev elected as Speaker.
However, as the lead narrowed and a blackout occurred over the reporting of new results, İmamoğlu overtook Yıldırım according to the Supreme Electoral Council (YSK) on noon on 1 April.
The main former leaders and leaders of the 1950s, Hubert Maga, Sourou Migan Apithy, and Justin Ahomadégbé, were therefore banned.
Aftermath On 3 October 2017, Carles Puigdemont said that his government intended to act on the result of the referendum "at the end of this week or the beginning of next" and declare independence from Spain.
Results Aftermath Governor-General Henry Josiah Lightfoot Boston swore in APC leader Siaka Stevens as the country's new Prime Minister on 21 March.
Büyükçekmece The AKP claimed that around 11,000 voters had illegally transferred their residency to the district of Büyükçekmece in order to vote in the Istanbul elections.
General elections were held in Peru on 10 June 1962 to elect the President and both houses of Congress.
Odinga published his own results, which put him ahead, and claimed that the commission's IT system had been hacked and that Kenya had seen the worst "voter theft" in its history.
Instead, after the new election on 12 January 2005, Lakoba was appointed Secretary of the Security Council on 17 February.
The Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (Bolsheviks) allowed the elections to be held, in hope of getting a majority of the votes.
As no candidate had secured over 50% of all votes cast (including invalid and blank votes) required for outright victory, a run-off election was scheduled for 21 November.
After the provisional results became public, the Justice and Development Party (AKP), who nominated Yıldırım, announced their intention to contest the results, stating that recounting the substantial number of invalid and blank votes could change the result.
The 25 members were to be elected using the single transferable vote system under the Weighted Inclusive Gregory Method.
The army put both Stevens and Boston under house arrest on the grounds that any change of government should have awaited the election of the tribal representatives to the House of Representatives.
To win seats, parties must pass a national electoral threshold of 7% of the votes cast, and receive at least 0.7% of the vote in each of the seven regions.
On 26 January 2012, the City Council of Sukhumi unanimously accepted a proposal by Mayor Alias Labakhua to rename the Square of the Constitution of the USSR after Bagapsh.
Armenia and Azerbaijan kept more cautious positions, supporting neither side but stressing the need for Ukrainian unity.
Background The rebels had publicly called for an election boycott, issuing its Total War Manifesto on 12 March 1958.
Guido, a member of Frondizi's UCRI, reluctantly accepted the figurehead post and on May 1, annulled the results of all legislative and gubernatorial 1962 elections.
Lakoba accused the head of Russia's State Audit Chamber Sergei Stepashin of trying to paper over financial violations in Abkhazia and to extenuate corruption within the Abkhaz officialdom.
The election is held under a two-round system; if no candidate receives more than 50% of votes cast in the first round, then a second ballot occurs in which only those two candidates who received the greatest number of votes in the first round may stand.
However, on 24 February 2025, the Constitutional Court invalidated the election and ordered a repeat election within 180 days.
The competitive contest was primarily between incumbent Bloc MP Nathalie Sinclair-Desgagné and Liberal challenger Tatiana Auguste, together having received more than three-quarters of the votes cast.
The two primary candidates in the presidential race were Guillermo Endara, who headed Democratic Alliance of Civic Opposition (ADOC), a coalition opposed to military ruler Manuel Noriega, and Carlos Duque, who headed the pro-Noriega Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD).
The leader believed this symbolic spot on the ticket (which, unable to return, he could never fill) would prove a powerful endorsement to Framini; but the move backfired when Frondizi was forced to declare Perón's candidacy null and void.
The Constitutional Congress heard both opinions generated an intense debate between the Calderonistas and communists deputies who advocated in favor of annulling the elections and the opposition deputies.
Some 450 international observers from 43 countries monitored the polls in one of the largest and longest election observation missions in the OSCE's history.
The results became controversial after a would-be Bloc voter disclosed on May 13 that her mail-in ballot was rejected and returned to her due to a postal code misprint on the envelope provided by Elections Canada.
Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson campaigned for Pittenger during the primary election campaign.
The court ultimately ruled that one person had voted illegally in the Mitiaro constituency in the general election, and invalidated that person's ballot.
These spread across the country, and on 24 March Akayev fled to Russia, whilst Prime Minister Nikolai Tanayev resigned.
On 5 April 2016, the CEP announced that a rerun of the presidential election was to take place on 9 October 2016.
After the meeting, Khajimba left and Bagapsh addressed his supporters, stating: "We are one people and we will make a common front against all our enemies.
Western observers reported that the re-run ballot was considered overall fairer than the previous ballots.
The European Union released a report indicating that their observers found many irregularities and chaotic processes in the election.
Apart from this last sceptical stage, it must be said that modern spiritual evolution has been taking unambiguously the line of a more or less materialistic objectivism.
We can have understanding while lacking corresponding knowledge and have knowledge while lacking the corresponding understanding.
He differentiated between the two meanings of home originating in the German language, "Heimat" understood as a homeland and "Wohnung" understood as in house, and argued that home cannot be understood as an eternal value transcending time and space.
used by Karl Mannheim who concentrated on the social conditioning of knowledge with the reasoning that a knowledge claim's validity is restricted by the social conditions with regard to which the claim was initially made.
He wrote, "As a physicist, I have to point out that it makes no difference if you call an object 'emptiness' and the emptiness 'object'.
Irrealism is a philosophical position first advanced by Nelson Goodman in "Ways of Worldmaking", encompassing epistemology, metaphysics, and aesthetics.
A variety of Christian apologetics, called presuppositional apologetics, argues that the existence or non-existence of God is the basic presupposition of all human thought, and that all people arrive at a worldview which is ultimately determined by the theology they presuppose.
He argues such terms are used in discourse as a means of justifying problematic issues within a society.
As such he holds to a complex view of the relationship between language and God, seeing it as both epistemologically analogical yet ontologically univocal via causation: theological language and concepts are "ectypal or analogical," yet "All our knowledge is from and through God ...
In usage employing this definition, synonyms with greater differences are often called near-synonyms rather than synonyms (compare also plesionyms).
After correcting and naming each treatise, Porphyry wrote a biography of his master, Life of Plotinus, intended to be an introduction to the Enneads.
During Cioran's lifetime, Saint-John Perse called him "the greatest French writer to honor our language since the death of Paul Valéry." Cioran's tone and usage in his adopted language were seldom as harsh as in Romanian (though his use of Romanian is said to be more original).
Ideas Appiah's early philosophical work dealt with probabilistic semantics and theories of meaning, but his more recent books have tackled philosophical problems of race and racism, identity, and moral theory.
These failures do occur in the industry and have been linked to; lack of user input, incomplete or unclear requirements, and changing requirements.
A newsletter keeps interested parties up to date on new entries and an archived list of previous newsletters is available online.
Metaphilosophy and science Broad distinguished between critical philosophy and speculative philosophy.
To say that "it's going to rain tomorrow" has a 0.9 probability is to say that you consider the possibility of rain tomorrow as extremely likely.
Thomas Kuhn cites Meyerson's work as influential while developing the ideas for his main work The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.
Career Williamson's research includes Inuit childbearing and gender roles in post-colonial Greenland.
Publications Books Perception: A Representative Theory (1977, CUP) Conditionals (1987, Basil Blackwell) (with David Braddon-Mitchell) Philosophy of Mind and Cognition: An Introduction (1996, Basil Blackwell), 2nd ed.
He was the chair of the Department of Philosophy, professor of philosophy and former dean of arts and religious studies at Trinity Western University and its school of graduate studies.
Other comparisons of multiple modalities that frequently arise are the relationships between belief and knowledge and the discrepancies that occur among observations, expectations, and intentions.
Klein suggested that pre-verbal existential anxiety in infancy catalyzed the formation of the unconscious, which resulted in the unconscious splitting of the world into good and bad idealizations.
This is perpetuated by how funding authorities tend to prioritize quantitative research with positivist frameworks.
Radical constructivism is closely related to second-order cybernetics, and especially the work of Heinz von Foerster, Humberto Maturana, and Francisco Varela.
To see how, imagine that a three-member court must decide whether someone is liable for a breach of contract.
However, neither of them know that the other child knows ( ( ¬ K a K b p ) ∧ ( ¬ K b K a p ) {\displaystyle (\neg K_{a}K_{b}p)\land (\neg K_{b}K_{a}p)} ), which makes p = [ ∃ x ∈ G ( M x ) ] {\displaystyle p=[\exists x\!\in \!G(M_{x})]} mutual knowledge.
In the opening essay "A critical awareness of science" he suggests adopting the perspective of the poor, and considering where science has failed them.
Hume's lasting legacy, however, was the doubt that his skeptical arguments cast on the legitimacy of inductive reasoning, allowing many skeptics who followed to cast similar doubt.
A related concept is perspectival realism, in which things within perceptual awareness have a defining intrinsic property that exists absolutely and not relative to anything, of which several other philosophers have written reviews.
Broad, was an English philosopher who worked on epistemology, history of philosophy, philosophy of science, and ethics, as well as the philosophical aspects of psychical research.
Since this argument is circular, with the help of Hume's fork he concluded that our use of induction is not logically justifiable .
Rather than taking the same road as contextualism and saying that the meaning of 'knows' can change with attributor context the contrastivist claims that it is the unspoken contrast clause that changes.
Importance and core tenets of 4E If there are separate theories of cognition (e.g., embodied, extended, etc.), why group them under this umbrella, causing important epistemological and especially ontological dilemmas?
Citing the Enneads Since the publishing of a modern critical edition of the Greek text by Paul Henry and Hans-Rudolf Schwyzer (Plotini Opera.
José Zalabardo (born 1964) is a Spanish-British philosopher who works on epistemology, metaphysics, and related areas.
In contemporary philosophy, several epistemologists have significantly contributed to and defended the theory, primarily Brand Blanshard (who gave the earliest characterization of the theory in contemporary times) and Nicholas Rescher.
In The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, Kuhn argued that scientific progress does not occur through gradual accumulation of correct ideas.
Vampyroteuthis Infernalis: A Treatise, with a Report by the Institut Scientifique de Recherche Paranaturaliste, University of Minnesota Press, 2012, 112 pp.
Kierkegaard scholar and translator Walter Lowrie would prefer the word "scraps," and a new translation of the work by M.
Teaching Theory of Knowledge (1986) – Marjorie Clay (ed.), an electronic publication from The Council for Philosophical Studies.
In addition, you put your best and brightest in places where they can do the most good—such as on high-value weapons programs.
His arguments were an effort to corrode the foundations of psychoanalysis, and it is for that reason he labelled such discipline as pseudoscience, following Karl Popper, as it lacks a proper scientific method.
The first 21 treatises (through IV.1) had already been written when Porphyry met Plotinus, so they were not necessarily written in the order shown.
Gnosology has also been used, particularly by James Hutchison Stirling, to render Johann Gottlieb Fichte's term for his own version of transcendental idealism, Wissenschaftslehre, meaning "Doctrine of Knowledge".
In Abrahamic religions, the doctrine of divine incomprehensibility says that God is not able to be fully known.
These laws outlined Mill's view of the epistemological components of emergentism, a school of philosophical laws that posited a decidedly opportunistic approach to the classic dilemma of causation nullification.
Griffiths, this premise is the foundation of universalist perspective behind the parable of the blind men and an elephant.
See also Representationalism Polish logic History of philosophy in Poland List of Poles References Sources Simons, Peter M.
Definitions and scope The term self-awareness is used across several disciplines to describe related but distinct phenomena.
Practical holism is a concept in the work of Martin Heidegger than posits it not possible to produce a complete understanding of one's own experience of reality because your mode of existence is embedded in cultural practices, the constraints of the task that you are doing.
Franklin, The Science of Conjecture: Evidence and Probability Before Pascal (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2001), ch.
For some examples, see Bonnie Talbert's "Knowing Other People" and Matthew Benton's "Epistemology Personalized" and "The Epistemology of Interpersonal Relations".
Amia Srinivasan (born 20 December 1984) is a philosopher and author noted for her work in epistemology and feminist philosophy.
The problem here raised is that two different inductions will be true and false under the same conditions.
Various theories of knowledge, including some of the proposals that emerged in Western philosophy after Gettier in 1963, were debated by Indo-Tibetan epistemologists before and after Dharmottara.
Body awareness also interacts with emotional and social processes: heightened interoceptive sensitivity has been linked to stronger emotional self-awareness, while disruptions to bodily representation are associated with conditions such as eating disorders and body dysmorphia.
Using process philosophy as a matrix to foster synergies, Weber follows the work of hundreds of scholars worldwide and with each of his projects defines a locus where he thinks creative energies are poised to intersect.
American critical realism The 20th-century American critical realist movement was a response both to direct realism, as well as to idealism and pragmatism.
Ernest Gellner in Words and Things "terms derive their meaning from the fact that there are or could be things which fall under them and that there are others which do not." The contrast clause The '...rather than q' part of the knowledge attribution is known as the 'contrast clause'.
Article 6, Protocol 2 to the Treaty of Lisbon (2007, entered into force on 1 December 2009) allows Member States to issue a reasoned opinion within 8 weeks of their official notification of the draft legislation.
In his book The Art Instinct (2010) Dutton opposes the view that art appreciation is culturally learned, claiming instead that art appreciation stems from evolutionary adaptions made during the Pleistocene.
For example, the coherence of the underlying set of concepts is considered to be a critical factor in judging validity for the whole system.
Critical and non-critical Critical metafiction aims to find the artificiality or fictionality of a text in some critical way, which is frequently done in postmodernist fiction.
Criticism of academic prose As editor of the journal Philosophy and Literature, Dutton ran the Bad Writing Contest, which aimed to "expose 'pretentious, swaggering gibberish' passed off as scholarship at leading universities".
Even in a mathematical statement as simple as "x=x", one encounters fundamental differences between the two "x"es under consideration: firstly, that there are two distinct "x"es, in that they neither occupy the same space on this page nor in one's own mind.
It is a symbol representing an ideological concept that may be ordinary on its own, but is understood to have a particular meaning to certain groups of people.
Further, since all the objects are unique particulars, it is not possible to determine which object falls in the category 'tree' if we have not previously ascribed the label to it.
British theorists William Robertson (1721–1793) and Edmund Burke (1729–1797), along with many of their contemporaries, remained committed to Christian- and republican-based conceptions of virtue, while working within a new Enlightenment paradigm.
He argued that this principle holds in most natural phenomena, while also noting that in some cases the interaction of causes may produce new effects not predictable from the individual causes alone.
The intentional stance is a functional relationship, describing the use of a theory due to its practical utility, rather than the accuracy of its representation of the world.
Since January 2020, she has been Chichele Professor of Social and Political Theory at the University of Oxford.
The study of gnosis itself covers a number of subjects, which include magic, noetics, gnostic logic, and logical gnosticism, among others.
This type of induction may use different methodologies such as quasi-experimentation, which tests and, where possible, eliminates rival hypotheses.
BonJour asserts that awareness is “built-in” and that it provides full justification for essential empirical beliefs.
If it were not the nature of the soul, it would be either the nature of the not-soul, or of nothing whatsoever.
Dutton also argued that progress in the arts and sciences had declined, especially since around 1800.
He attacks systems like Spinozism that try to confine what he feels is the infinite majesty of God into a finite human creation.
He notes that Bradley's coherence theory of truth is the classic statement of such a position, comparing Bradley's views to those of Willard Van Orman Quine.
The properties listed here are often known as the "S5 Properties," for reasons described in the Axiom Systems section below.
Ravetz also presents his insight on the use of ignorance ("Usable Knowledge, Usable Ignorance: Incomplete Science with Policy Implications"; the book is credited with having provided the first illustration of ‘science-based ignorance’, p.
19th-century thinkers By the 19th century, scientific evidence of the Earth's age had been collected, and it disagreed with a literal reading of the biblical accounts.
Note, however, that this syllogism happens in the reasoning by the speaker "I"; Therefore, in the formal modal logic form, it'll be Premise 1: The speaker believes he knows who X is.
Based on rules of coherence An influential rival to the reason-responsiveness account understands rationality as internal coherence.
Around this time, he wrote his Short Treatise on God, Man, and His Well-Being, which he never published in his lifetime, thinking it would enrage the theologians, synods, and city magistrates.
X, or X as it is at present, is not determined by the nature of things; it is not inevitable Very often they go further, and urge that: X is quite as bad as it is.
For example, Schiller argues that the reality of time and change is intrinsically opposed to the very modus operandi of all systems of abstract metaphysics.
Somerset Maugham's book The Razor's Edge, and read the works of well-known philosophers such as Jacques Maritain, Mortimer J.
The hypothesis has received criticism from some physicists, such as Sabine Hossenfelder, who considers that it is physically impossible to simulate the universe without producing measurable inconsistencies, and called it pseudoscience and religion.
While invincible ignorance eliminates culpability, vincible ignorance at most mitigates it, and may even aggravate guilt.
Against Hegel's system, Kierkegaard is often interpreted as taking the side of metaphysical libertarianism or free will, though it has been argued that an incompatibilist conception of free will is not essential to Kierkegaard's formulation of existentialism.
It can only be somewhat unfolded in its depth and riches in a humanity counting billions of members ...
During the late 20th century the term spread into various areas of philosophical discourse that include literary theory, hermeneutics and deconstruction.
In 1610 Bacon and his associates received a charter from the king to form the Tresurer and the Companye of Adventurers and planter of the Cittye of London and Bristoll for the Collonye or plantacon in Newfoundland, and sent John Guy to found a colony there.
Later commentary The 19th-century philosopher of science William Whewell qualified this statement, saying that, "it was by such a use of hypotheses, that both Newton himself and Kepler, on whose discoveries those of Newton were based, made their discoveries".
Age of Enlightenment (1650–1800) In the Enlightenment, French historian and philosopher Voltaire (1694–1778) was a major proponent of progress.
She drew an analogy between the industrial labor of the proletariat and the domestic labor of women to show that women can also have a distinctive standpoint.
In Buddhist thought, a view is not a simple, abstract collection of propositions, but a charged interpretation of experience which intensely shapes and affects thought, sensation, and action.
Appiah, Anthony (1990), "Race", in Lentricchia, Frank; McLaughlin, Tom (eds.), Critical terms for literary study, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, pp.
Into the second class fall statements like "the sun rises in the morning", and "all bodies have mass".
Strategic positivism is an approach that recognizes the limitations and potential of positivist methods, using them strategically for emancipatory goals.
The fields of psychology and cognitive sociology are also interested in beliefs and related cognitive processes, but examine them from a different perspective.
In Outlines of Pyrrhonism Sextus Empiricus demonstrated that no criterion of truth had been established, contrary to the position of dogmatists such as the Stoics and their doctrine of katalepsis.
Essai sur les fondements de la praxis philosophique, Louvain-la-Neuve, Éditions Chromatika, 2008 (ISBN 978-2-930517-02-5).
It is to say that none of us can comprehend God exhaustively." Some older English versions of the Athanasian Creed confess "the Father incomprehensible, the Son incomprehensible, and the Holy Spirit incomprehensible" as a translation of the Latin immensus.
The truth or falsity of such propositions is ineliminably dependent on the result of a suitable constructivist procedure.
Apologetics argue that the resulting worldview is inconsistent with itself and therefore irrational (for example, via the Argument from morality or via the Transcendental argument for the existence of God).
Heidegger, Derrida, Europa, 2021), authorship theory (The Manufacture of an Author, 2000; El mundo Ingaramo, 2015), and science and writing (Ciencia y escritura, 2003).
They held that since inference needed an invariable connection between the middle term and the predicate, and further, that since there was no way to establish this invariable connection, that the efficacy of inference as a means of valid knowledge could never be stated.
Epistemological rupture (or epistemological break) is a notion introduced in 1938 by French philosopher Gaston Bachelard, and later used by Louis Althusser.
Douglas Hofstadter, in his 1979 book Gödel, Escher, Bach (and in the 1985 sequel, Metamagical Themas), popularized this meaning of the term.
Piety calls it "Philosophical Crumbs," presumably because Piety recognizes that "Fragments" lacks the casual connotations Kierkegaard intended.
Stepping from simple to higher organized organisms, Lorenz shows how they gain and benefit from information.
In addition to marking a distinct movement in traditional and analytic epistemology, social epistemology is associated with the interdisciplinary field of science and technology studies (STS).
Grounded in African ontology, it emphasizes the interconnectedness of reality as a continuum between knowing subject and known object.
He argued that merely looking outward into the mirror ignores the fact that the mirror has a non-reflecting side, which is also a part and parcel of reality.
Du Bois-Reymond's proclamation irritated David Hilbert, who declared in 1900 at the International Congress of Mathematicians that "in mathematics there is no ignorabimus".
Moral constructivism or ethical constructivism is a view both in meta-ethics and normative ethics which posits that: Ethical sentences express propositions.
In the relation between "logical thinking" and "rational Kabbalah" the "Partzuf" is the means to identify "dogma".
Self-consciousness Albert Bandura's theory of self-efficacy describes "the belief in one's capabilities to organize and execute the courses of action required to manage prospective situations." A person's belief in their ability to succeed sets the stage for how they think, behave, and feel.
According to the enkratic rule, for example, rational agents are required to intend what they believe they ought to do.
It is a stricter (more precise) technical definition of synonymy, specifically for theoretical (e.g., linguistic and philosophical) purposes.
Bibliography Beyond "Justification": Dimensions of Epistemic Evaluation, Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 2005.
It is a commonly used example of how one may maintain extreme philosophical skepticism with regard to memory and trust in evidentially derived historical chronology.
Philosophical Fragments (Danish title: Philosophiske Smuler eller En Smule Philosophi) is a philosophical work written by Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard in 1844 and the first of three works written under the pseudonym Johannes Climacus.
Generic male language In literature, the use of masculine language to refer to both men and women may indicate a male or androcentric bias in society where men are seen as the 'norm', and women are seen as the 'other'.
Mark Johnston compares this notion to his related but distinct notion of an "arena of presence and action", which contains the stream of consciousness, and argues for the latter.
Correspondence The correspondence theory asserts that a belief or statement is true if it corresponds to facts.
Specifically, Fumerton believes that for a belief to be non-inferentially justified, it must be justified by direct acquaintance with facts and the correspondence between those facts and the belief in question.
Berkeleyan idealism is the view, propounded by the Irish empiricist George Berkeley, that the objects of perception are actually ideas in the mind.
According to Hoffer's May 20, 1959 journal entry, the successful navigation of drastic change requires "endowment ...
The phrase is not specific to philosophy in German, but refers to an action or condition that has continued without any identifiable beginning.
The Eastern Orthodox Church of Christianity and the Catholic Church each consider themselves to be the true heir to Early Christian belief and practice.
In several dialogues by Plato, the character Socrates presents the view that each soul existed before birth with the Form of the Good and a perfect knowledge of Ideas.
Bavinck held that the Trinity was the essential principle of theology and structures his worldview according to the unity-in-diversity of the Trinity: "The Trinity reveals God to us as the fullness of being, the true life, eternal beauty.
The whole intelligent life of man is, consciously or unconsciously, a process of apperception, in as much as every act of attention involves the appercipient process.
Specifically, Ideonomy is concerned with the systematic organization of ideas and the discovery of the rules behind how ideas combine, diverge, and transform.
Aristotle's explanation of how this was possible was not strictly empiricist in a modern sense, but rather based on his theory of potentiality and actuality, and experience of sense perceptions still requires the help of the active nous.
The idea was that in order for a statement or proposition to be true, it must represent or correspond to a state of affairs which is actually present in reality.
It is the sudden discovery of the correct solution following incorrect attempts based on trial and error.
There, she got involved with a community organization group called The Woodlawn Organization, which was started by activist Saul Alinsky.
The Peripatetic axiom is that "nothing is in the intellect that was not first in the senses" (Latin: Nihil est in intellectu quod non sit prius in sensu).
His later writings on the subject continue to draw parallels of beauty and deformity in art with conduct and character.
Allegory of the cave In his best-known dialogue, The Republic, Plato drew an analogy between human sensation and the shadows that pass along the wall of a cave - an allegory known as Plato's allegory of the cave.
Unlike the rationalists, Kant thinks that a priori cognition, in its pure form, that is without the admixture of any empirical content, is limited to the deduction of the conditions of possible experience.
Hegel's solution is to find universality in society's institutions—this implies that a decision, a rule, etc.
Note, however, that space did not cause the cube, but that the artisan did, and that the cube and space are distinct entities, so space is not part of the definition of cube.
As the camera slowly zooms out it gradually becomes clear that the material under examination is the hide of an African elephant.
The Merger of Knowledge with Power: Essays in Critical Science is a book written in 1990 by Jerome Ravetz.
History It could be argued that alethiology is synonymous with epistemology, the study of knowledge, and that dividing the two is mere semantics, but sometimes a distinction is made between the two.
This is the version of epistemological idealism which interested Ludwig Boltzmann; it had roots in the positivism of Ernst Mach and Gustav Kirchhoff plus a number of aspects of the Kantianism or neo-Kantianism of Hermann von Helmholtz and Heinrich Hertz.
This demonstrates Nasr's Platonic resemblance in that it preserves the notion of primordial knowledge and truth contained within man's being.
Semiotic theorists such as Terrence Deacon and Kalevi Kull regard the concept of a meme as a primitivized or degenerate concept of a sign, containing only a sign's basic ability to be copied, but lacks other core elements of the sign concept such as translation and interpretation.
The division between quantitative and qualitative data has historically reinforced gendered dichotomies of "hard/soft, emotional/rational, worthy/worthless".
According to the literal standards of logic, deductive reasoning arrives at certain conclusions while inductive reasoning arrives at probable conclusions.
The flux and reflux of the mind in all its subtlest thoughts and feelings…in its inmost nature - in modes of inmost being - the tremulous reciprocations of which propagate themselves even to the inmost of the soul.
Background René Descartes, the namesake for the concept in itself, was a seventeenth-century philosopher heavily engaged in epistemology and metaphysics who was interested with the nature of the self, which eventually lead to him pondering the concept a great deal.
Thus, a word is cognitively synonymous with another word if and only if all instances of both words express the same exact thing, and the referents are necessarily identical, which means that the words' interchangeability is not context-sensitive.
The verdict concerns also inductive, causal, transcendental, and all otherwise structured justifications.
This reflects the observation made centuries before by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, that "when I turn one way rather than another, it is often because of a series of tiny impressions of which I am not aware".
The first way of representing the number requires five concepts ("0", "decimal point", "3", "infinity", "infinity of 3"); but the second way can produce all the data of the first representation, but uses only three concepts ("1", "division", "3").
For Joseph Glanvill rational fideism is the view that "Faith, and faith alone, is the basis for our belief in our reason.
Habituation is the learning method to distinguish important information from unimportant by analysing its frequency of occurrence and its impact.
For the [intellect] is in all respects a medial and mediate faculty, and has therefore two extremities or poles, the sensual, in which form it is St.
Universal love refers to the basic normative attitude the Mohists encourage us to adopt towards others.
According to Jain epistemology, sense perception is the knowledge which the Jīva (soul) acquires of the environment through the intermediary of material sense organs.
If I am asked what reason I have for thinking that there is such a relation as acquaintance, I will, of course, give the unhelpful answer that I am acquainted with such a relation.
An example is: "United States of America was involved in the Vietnam War," versus "United States of America was right to get involved in the Vietnam War".
In Greek mythology and literature, the figure Ate (Ἄτη) is discussed in scholarship as a personification of "delusion" that leads agents into error and ruin.
Sensory abilities of different organisms often co-evolve, as is the case with the hearing of echolocating bats and that of the moths that have evolved to respond to the sounds that the bats make.
Scott Fitzgerald, Melanie Klein, Friedrich Nietzsche, Stéphane Mallarmé, Malcolm Lowry, Émile Zola and Sigmund Freud.
Additional Shi'a teachings In Shi'a theology, one of the two branches of Islam, the belief is that the Ahl al-Bayt, including Muhammad, his daughter Fatima Zahra and Shi'a Imams are all infallible.
Nonsense, especially through the literature he analyzes, intrinsically avoids being defined, and can only be seen as "that which has no sense," but "is opposed to the absence of sense".
Willard Van Orman Quine used the concept of cognitive synonymy extensively in his famous 1951 paper "Two Dogmas of Empiricism", where two words were cognitively synonymous if they were interchangeable in every possible instance.
Works in Spanish Representative books VILLORIA LÓPEZ / VILLORIA ROJAS, Genealogías Caucanas & Huilenses.
The composition of causes was a set of philosophical laws advanced by John Stuart Mill in his watershed essay A System of Logic.
Constructivist Foundations is a free online journal publishing peer-reviewed articles on radical constructivism by researchers from multiple domains.
But Kant was a transitional thinker, so he still maintains the phenomenon/noumenon dichotomy, but what he did achieve was to render Noumena as unknowable and irrelevant.
as a sort of supreme court of reason overlooking the rest of culture, has become obsolete, having reached an impasse in analytic philosophy, and so philosophy must instead become a more interpretive and culturally relevant discipline if it is to have any relevance at all.
Finally all the things which are requisite to cause us distinctly to recognise a body, are met with in it.
Udana hosted by the University of Princeton Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi's version as translated by A.J.
The inescapability of time is verified by the fact that a particle, rather than a "thing" that oscillates, is the oscillation itself.
Historical turn From the 1930s until Thomas Kuhn's 1962 The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, there were roughly two prevailing views about the nature of science.
Example Consider an employer attempting to choose between two candidates offering to complete a task at the cost of $10/hour.
See also Epistemic theories of truth Epistemic optimism (in the philosophy of science) Epistemology Philosophical realism == References ==
(ISBN 978-2-36405-172-0) (with Laureline Kergueris), Thérapie psychocorporelle et massage ayurvédiques — Théorie et pratique de l’événement, Louvain-la-Neuve, Éditions Chromatika, 2020.
Castañeda is noted for his development of guise theory, which he applied to outstanding problems in the analysis of thought, language, and the structure of the world.
{\displaystyle {\mathit {initiates}}(opendoor,open,T).} t e r m i n a t e s ( o p e n d o o r , c l o s e d , T ) .
The ten-volume Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy mentions it only once, in the article "Lambert, Johann Heinrich (1728–77)": Part Two of the Neues Organon is the 'Alethiology or Doctrine of Truth'.
She headed the department of philosophy from 2007 to 2010, served the university as its provost and pro-rector from 2010 to 2014, and has been head of the department again since 2021.
Balkin maintains that the same structures used to generate ideas about free speech or free markets also serve to generate racistic beliefs.
Radical skepticism (or radical scepticism in British English) is the philosophical position that knowledge is most likely impossible.
Dennett points to the existence of self-regulating correction mechanisms (vaguely resembling those of gene transcription) enabled by the redundancy and other properties of most meme expression languages which stabilize information transfer.
What has largely been neglected is to ask: Are there certain kinds of questions in relation to which other kinds of representation, for example, controlled vocabularies, may improve recall and precision?
Joachim (the philosopher credited with the definitive formulation of the theory, in his book The Nature of Truth, published in 1906), truth is a systematic coherence that involves more than logical consistency.
Classical logic In classical logic, with its intended semantics, the truth values are true (denoted by 1 or the verum ⊤), and untrue or false (denoted by 0 or the falsum ⊥); that is, classical logic is a two-valued logic.
Internalism and externalism – The believer must be able to justify a belief through internal knowledge (internalism), or outside sources of knowledge can be used to justify a belief (externalism).
Known chiefly for his work on adaptive and paraconsistent logics, his epistemological views may be broadly characterized as fallibilist.
Preformation theory is a theistic epistemological theory that states that knowledge is possible only because God has endowed humans with certain innate ideas along with dispositions or aptitudes in certain ways.
Being based upon description logic, knowledge expressed using one variant of OWL can be logically processed, i.e., inferences can be made upon it.
Present day Although the number of market gardens in the Vale of Evesham has declined sharply since the mid 20th century, the Evesham Custom is still observed in tenancies.
In English law, subinfeudation is the practice by which tenants, holding land under the king or other superior lord, carved out new and distinct tenures in their turn by sub-letting or alienating a part of their lands.
He delves deeply and widely, producing a text that is remarkable in its scope, insights, and historical knowledge.
This practice appears to have rested on the crown's right to decide whether to exact personal service or to accept scutage in lieu of service.
At the outbreak of the Second World War, it continued to operate in the mounted role and then as a specialist signals unit.
The land reform in interwar Yugoslavia was a process of redistribution of agricultural land in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (renamed Yugoslavia in 1929) carried out in the interwar period.
From 13 October 2003 the Land Registry no longer does so, and a more studied examination of the downloaded lease is needed.
Another 6 shillings 8 pence was spent for renting accommodations to store the coats and the Guards' accoutrements while they were in Calais for Henry VII's meeting with Francis I of France.
However, the Revolutionary Command Council demonstrated its power by forcing him to resign, replacing him with Muhammad Naguib and passing the law.
Official Mailo was land given to certain officials and it is now also owned by the Buganda Land Board.
Provisions The Act defines expropriation as the compulsory acquisition of property by organs of state or authorised "expropriating authorities".
Aboriginal title is a common law doctrine that the land rights of indigenous peoples to customary tenure persist after the assumption of sovereignty to that land by another colonising state.
The regiment is part of 3rd (UK) Division and provides battle casualty replacements to the three armoured (Challenger 2) regiments.
Members were required to provide their own horses and were recruited mainly from landholders and tenant farmers, though the middle class also featured prominently in the rank and file.
However, for Arthur, Prince of Wales marriage with Catherine of Aragon in 1501, the Guard numbered 300.
Compensation In 1926 the previous landowners affected by the reforms (mostly large native landowners) received a small amount of compensation.
Reception Critical reception Francisco Cantú's review in The New Yorker was mixed, praising Winchester's prose.
She rejects "Leonard's" overtures, as a married woman should, and he is about to reveal himself to her.
Where the sanctions for non-compliance are limited in this way, a quit rent is a rent in form and name, and not a tax; where they are not so limited, a quit rent is a rent only in form and name, being rather a tax.
A yeoman of signals is a signals petty officer in the British Royal Navy and other Commonwealth navies.
It was a powerful and enduring belief which lived on long after the military rationale of clanship itself had disappeared and tribal chiefs had shed their ancient responsibilities and become commercial landlords.
The Pratt–Yorke opinion (1757), a joint opinion of England's Attorney-General and Solicitor-General, declared that land purchases by the British East India Company from the Princely states were valid even without a Crown patent authorizing the purchase.
See also Northeast India border disputes Land reform in India Land acquisition in India Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 2011 land acquisition protests in Uttar Pradesh == References ==
Matthew Armour (12 April 1820 – 23 March 1903) was a radical Free Church of Scotland minister on the island of Sanday, Orkney, remembered for supporting the island's crofters.
See also Afterlehen Cestui que Charter of Liberties Concordat of Worms Lease § Sublease Statutes of Mortmain Quia Emptores == References ==
Cochin Princely State Land divided into Sirkar (State owned) and Janmon (Feudal) Verumpattamdars Act 1943:Providing fixity of tenure to a large section of cultivators.
Background The political tensions leading up to the incident reflected Indigenous concerns about their lack of land rights, the impacts of mineral extraction, and corporate/Crown encroachment on their traditional territories.
There was one other cut made after Gilbert's death: Separate lyrics for Elsie and Point, not found elsewhere, were cut during the "All frenzied, frenzied with despair they rave" section of the Act I finale.
As Lawrence Stone has argued, a key element is psychological: a strong attachment by those involved to the principle of preferential male primogeniture.
Additionally, the law provided for the redistribution of any land that owners held over the limits it established: Each affected owner would receive compensation for his excess land in government bonds worth a total of ten times the rental value of the land.
He lived there until August, working in the fields and gathering material for the book that became Fanshen.
Within Sasan territories, the Raja (king) had no jurisdiction over inhabitants, and all the disputes were resolved under Charana jurisdiction.
Office of the Ewery and Napery The duty of serving the King's person was assigned to the Sergeant of the King's Mouth, who had a Yeoman and a Groom as his deputies.
Inter-state conflict includes those between states in northeast India such as Assam-Mizoram, Assam–Arunachal Pradesh and Assam–Nagaland.
Feudal England Medieval English kings frequently made grants "in fee-farm", a form of feudal tenure.
While the word "yeoman" in normal use meant a small farmer who owned his land, Yeomanry officers were drawn from the nobility or the landed gentry, and many of the men were the officers' tenants or had other forms of obligation to the officers.
See also Home ownership in Australia Homeownership in Germany Homeownership in the United States Imputed rent Negative equity Ownership Property References Further reading Kwak, Nancy H.
Thaba 'Nchu, also known as Blesberg (bald mountain in Afrikaans), is a town in Free State, South Africa, 63 km east of Bloemfontein and 17 km east of Botshabelo.
Heirs When an English tenant-in-chief died, an inquisition post mortem was held in each county in which he held land and his or her land temporarily escheated (i.e.
Early life She was born in Cortland, New York, to John and Aurilla Phelps, and grew up in Elmira where she became a Baptist.
The fees were often lands, land revenue or revenue-producing real property like a watermill, held in feudal land tenure: these are typically known as fiefs or fiefdoms.
Kincaid related his own experience of the Peninsula Campaign, the advance into France and finally the Battles of Quatre Bras and Waterloo in his memoir.
It explicitly excluded slaves, women, and draft animals from land allocation, and relaxed restrictions on land sales.
Customary land is land held under customary land tenure and the enjoyment of some use of land that arises through customary, unwritten practice rather than through written codified law.
The work teams worked hurriedly and with little investigation, leading to mistakes that cost the Party credibility and support.
Although Ruhollah Khomeini branded the referendum an anti-God project and called on all believers not to vote, 5,598,711 Iranians voted in favor and only 4,115 opposed.
A further complication was that many parts of the West Highlands used the caschrom to work arable, especially in the Hebrides, so there was no need for a shared plough team.
In Scotland a crofting township is a group of agricultural smallholdings (each with its own few hectares of pasture and arable land (in-bye land)) holding in common a substantial tract of unimproved upland grazing.
This is true whether the government acquires full ownership of the property ("fee title") or a lesser property interest, such as an easement.
See also Landless Workers' Movement League of Poor Peasants Tiradentes Revolutionary Movement (1961-1962) == References ==
Following the 1975 land reform, the Derg converted a majority of the estimated 75,000 hectares of large, commercial farms owned by individuals and cooperatives into state farms; not long afterwards, the government expanded their size.
Very few non-agricultural freeholds remain unregistered land and those that do may consider voluntary first registration.
As the situation of customary land tenure is still very ambiguous, those who claim their land on the basis of customary law are vulnerable to arbitrary actions perpetrated by the state.
Another historian, Robert Stephens, has compared the state of Egyptian peasants before land reform to that of French peasants before the French Revolution.
The later returns are in the Book of Fees and in the Record Office volumes of Feudal Aids, arranged under counties.
Similarly, in Germany legislation was passed in the 1950s as part of an overhaul of German agriculture.
There is a staff of around twenty: five Land Commissioners, the Tenant Farming Commissioner and support staff.
A liferent might be set by law (as when someone died, it would apply to the surviving spouse); or it might be set as a private arrangement between individuals.
Dillegrout was first presented in 1068 at the coronation of Matilda of Flanders, wife of William the Conqueror, and its final presentation was at the coronation of George IV in 1821.
Tax Commissioner William Brisbane envisioned racial integration on the islands, with large plantation owners employing landless blacks.
Under the 1995 Constitution of Uganda, mailo was reintroduced and land can have four forms of ownership: mailo (official or private), customary, freehold or leasehold.
The Aboriginal People's Act 1954 creates aboriginal areas and reserves, also providing for state acquisition of land without compensation.
The date the camp was established is not known but it is likely that Wiradjuri people were camping at the site during the period the mission was in operation.
While intended to provide secure title to indigenous Hawaiians, it separated many of them from their land.
At the same time there was a shift in the political climate: William Gladstone's Liberal government fell from power; the new Conservative government was much less sympathetic to the plight of crofters and much more willing to use troops to quell protests.
References Sir John Baker, An Introduction to English Legal History (3rd edition) 1990 Butterworths.
A survey township, sometimes called a Congressional township or just township, as used by the United States Public Land Survey System and by Canada's Dominion Land Survey is a nominally-square area of land that is nominally six survey miles (about 9.66 km) on a side.
As many crofters in the Scottish Highlands newly qualified as £10 occupiers, the Act empowered Scottish Gaels to form the Crofters' Party and Highland Land League.
Comonfort had meanwhile won the 1857 presidential election and assumed his term as constitutional president on 1 December.
A run rig system of agriculture may or may not produce a rig and furrow landscape, depending on the method of cultivation used.
The contractor paid the municipality a fixed annual sum, representing the municipality's share of estimated revenue, plus a share of revenues in excess of the estimate.
In India, even with political support for joint-titling policy, institutional backing from local land authority's is needed to make progress.
The plateau is about 12 miles (19 km) wide from east to west, overlooking the Rio Grande on the east and merging with the higher elevations of the Jemez Mountains on the west.
Gult owners collected tribute from the peasantry and, until 1966 (when gult rights were abolished in principle), exacted labor service as payment in kind from the peasants.
Political role Following a launch of a programme by Mill in July 1870, and organisational work in which Thomas Hare and Jacob Bright were involved, the Association held its first public meeting in 1871.
All tenures in Kansas are allodial." The Supreme Court of Michigan expressed the opinion that whether Quia Emptores ever became effectual in any part of the United States by express or implied adoption or as part of the common law did not have to be ascertained.
William Blackstone defined fee simple as the estate in land that a person has when the lands are given to him and his heirs absolutely, without any end or limit put to his estate.
The leasehold for the island was purchased by Australian Andrew Dixon in 2005 and developed, with the aid of a group of friends, into a boutique private island resort named Nikoi Island.
Charanas as a people commanded great respectability and influence in Rajputana, given high positions and honors in the royal courts and being considered a form of landed nobility.
On 5 July 2014 all squadrons, including Y Squadron (formerly A Squadron the Royal Yeomanry), adopted a single unifying cap badge featuring the white dragon of England.
It involves changes in the social relations and dynamics of production, power relations in agrarian formations and ownership structures in the agricultural sector of an economy.
This resulted from the horsedrawn plough being worked in a clockwise direction, with the mould board turning the furrow to the right, thereby creating these ridges ("rigs") in the fields over time.
Evidence on the effectiveness of land titling for poverty reduction and economic development is mixed, with the key issue being the impact of titling on the security of land tenure, which varies.
These different ideas of land ownership and tenure are sometimes referred to using different terminology.
However, they agreed to live by the new laws for about 100 years, and during this time, the poverty in Athens had been somewhat alleviated.
Laws relating to land reform were implemented in a series of laws passed between 1959 and 1963 after the Cuban Revolution.
Expulsion of tenants from the land for failure to perform was always a difficult idea, and usually necessitated a lengthy court battle.
The Mica Bay Incident (also known as the Michipicoten War or the Mica Bay Uprising) was a land and resources dispute in along the shore of Lake Superior in November 1849.
On Monday, August 23, 1875, The Commission of Enquiry began its enquiry of the largest estate, an absentee landowner, Charlotte Antonia Sulivan, of some 66,937 acres.
She joined the new University of York after completing her A-levels in Brighton and she gained her first degree in 1967 in Social Sciences.
They are just like the rest of us, only farther away from home, and sometimes more homesick, even though they proudly wear one of Uncle Sam’s uniforms.
By government In the United States, easements may be acquired (bought) by the government using its power of eminent domain in a condemnation proceeding in the courts.
Haakon was supposed to married Bardsson's daughter but he was delayed due to strife in the bay and sent Dagfinn as a messenger to the Earl to inform him.
In 2010, Venezuela tied with Chad and Zimbabwe for 2nd worst property rights in the world according to the International Property Rights Index from Americans for Tax Reform, a conservative U.S.
The jacket was now plain and single-breasted without the plastron front and worn with a white pouch belt over the left shoulder.
To achieve these numbers, 18 new regiments were raised, 12 of them resurrected from disbanded 19th century corps.
These activities include: Renegade Economists — a weekly radio show on the community radio station 3CR.
After the village burned down in April 2007, the group moved 14 of the ex-residents into a warehouse.
Such tenures could be either free-hold if they were hereditable or perpetual or non-free if they terminated on the tenant's death or at an earlier specified period.
This tends to be used in the summer, but with the advent of fertilisers it is often used in colder times as well.
First, the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe had confirmed the constitutionality of the land reform program, and registering the SADC Tribunal's judgment in Zimbabwe would challenge the Supreme Court's decision and undermine its authority; this would be contrary to public policy.
Approximately two thirds of the land affected by the interwar land reform was located in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Further, those attempts by the Imperial government to improve the peasant's title to their land were often met with suspicion.
We do work with a number of stakeholders and we can certainly see how we can do more." In June 2018 the UK government announced that leasehold tenure would be reformed, with new long leases having zero ground rent.
Since 2013, the regiment has been the United Kingdom's only Armoured Reinforcement Regiment, providing armoured (main battle tank) resilience to the three remaining regular Army armoured regiments: the Queen's Royal Hussars (QRH), the King's Royal Hussars (KRH) and the Royal Tank Regiment (RTR).
The government still hopes that with "improved identification and selection of beneficiaries, better planning of land and, ultimately, greater productivity of the land acquired..." the land reform process will begin moving faster.
A geographic principle of location in some serjeanty and related holdings." Proceedings of the Cambridge Antiquarian Society 80 (1992 for 1991)': 7–20.
Within these counties a crofting parish was a parish where there were year-by-year tenants of land (tenants without leases) who were paying less than £30 a year in rent and who had possessed effective common grazing rights during the 80 years since 24 June 1806.
Presented with a draft by the President, the Guatemalan Congress met on Saturdays and Sundays for five weeks.
Many Councils are now seeking to address the problems of monotenure neighbourhoods through estate renewal.
This was especially true for organisations such as the Association of Serbian Chetniks Petar Mrkonjić, the Organization of Yugoslav Nationalists, and the Serbian National Youth.
Tourism Tourists can visit the following places: Deemsters Asparagus Factory to learn about the history of this local crop Nebo and Die Hoek where visitors can view San rock art paintings Tandjiesberg rock shelter has rock paintings and was declared a National Monument on 30 October 1992.
Each manor custom laid out rights to use various resources of the land such as wood and pasture, and numbers of animals allowed on the common.
The parish is now located in the local government area of the City of Shoalhaven but was previously part of the Clyde Shire.
Southeast Asia Cambodia Hun Sen implemented land reform, the "leopard skin land reform", in Cambodia.
Manorialism, also known as seigneurialism, the manor system or manorial system, was the method of land ownership (or "tenure") in parts of Europe, notably France and later England, during the Middle Ages.
This was down to the 19th century landowner, the 8th Duke of Argyll, who decided that splitting the township into individual crofts would not be financially viable and encouraged his tenants to modernise their methods.
The Plan's participants are first granted a piece of land to homestead and cultivate; if they cultivate it continuously for three years, they are then given official title to the land.
The earliest connection to the Royal Household came as a reference to the Yeomen of the Guard by Cosimo III de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany, who visited the Court in 1669.
On 31 March 1916, the remaining Mounted Brigades were ordered to be numbered in a single sequence; the brigade became the 15th Mounted Brigade and joined 4th Mounted Division.
Her teachers reported her to be well ahead of the other students, with an early grasp on the English language and above-average educational performance.
Cassius and Verginius The first attempted land reforms in the Roman Republic occurred in 486 BC under the consulship of Spurius Cassius Vecellinus, and Proculus Verginius Tricostus Rutilus.
The 1950 Land Reform Law was also explicit that the land of middle peasants should not be redistributed.
The SP model was implemented between 2005 and 2008 that ended up in a fiasco leading to creation of conflict between several interested parties.
Haakon Later he was sent to seek the support of the Archbishop of Nidaros along with Gregorious Jonson.
Secondly, if the prices are left for the market to determine, the small peasants could never influence the big corporate tycoons.
Under the Future Soldier reforms, the regiment now comes under the command of 12th Armoured Brigade Combat Team.
Surveys of land ownership The main two official surveys undertaken in the British Isles with the aim of identifying owners of land and land values are the Domesday Book of 1086 and the Return of Owners of Land, 1873.
In July 1916, the regiment was converted to a cyclist unit in 6th Cyclist Brigade, 2nd Cyclist Division (4th Mounted Division redesignated).
Open Fields (loutian): Adult males (15 years and above) received 40 mu (approximately 2.6 hectares), while adult females received 20 mu.
Bracton was of the opinion that a gift of land to the Church could be voided by the heirs, but not the lord.
World War I and later On the eve of World War I in 1914, there were 55 Yeomanry regiments (with two more formed in August 1914), each of four squadrons instead of the three of the regular cavalry.
Advised that it did not, Daniels responded, "Then enroll women in the Naval Reserve as yeomen,’ I said, ‘and we will have the best clerical assistance the country can provide.’" By war's end, there were more than 11,000 women serving as yeoman (F) of the US Naval Reserve.
After the 1971 Ugandan coup d'état, all land was made publicly owned following Idi Amin's 1975 Land Reform Decree.
Unlike Northern Wei, which did not impose limits on land grants to enslaved persons, Northern Qi restricted land allocations to slaves and servants according to official ranks, limiting the number of recipients to between 60 and 300 persons.
Chapter 7 of the Act introduces mechanisms for temporary property utilisation in urgent circumstances, limited to 12-month periods.
Edward Coke commented on this in the first part of his Institutes of the Lawes of England, published within his Commentary upon Littleton, which he completed about a century and a half after its subject's first appearance.
Instead, fund government from the economic rents that fall to land and monopoly." Its journal, Progress, has been published since 1904.
It also provides a network of support to established, new, and aspiring crofters through training, mentoring, and sharing of experience.
To appease the rich, Solon divided the Athenians into four income groups, with civil rights increasing from the lower to the higher income.
However, following a concerted effort by the proprietors to get the Colonial Office to reverse the action, the Crown overturned the sales conducted at the auction in 1783.
The Tenures Abolition Act 1660 abolished knight service, converting all free tenures to socage tenure.
Motivations The Peasant Leagues of the 1960s had radiated from the Pernambuco Planters' Agricultural and Livestock Society (SAPPP) of 1955.
The gold-embroidered emblems on the back and front of the coats consist of the crowned Tudor Rose, the shamrock and the thistle, the motto Dieu et mon droit, and the royal cypher of the reigning sovereign (currently CIIIR for "Carolus Rex").
Commutation of tithes occurred in England before the 19th century major reform, since it was an aspect of enclosure, a legal process under which rights to common land were modified by an act of parliament.
Peasants receiving land were subject to the Zuyongdiao (租庸调) system—an annual obligation to pay grain taxes (zu), labor service (yong), and cloth or other goods (diao).
It eventually evolved into the freehold tenure called "free and common socage", which did not involve feudal duties.
Thus, these reforms allowed for the state farmlands to dominate the agricultural sector—70 per cent of the arable land was under the state control and the government became the largest employer, while 30 per cent was privately owned.
The Parish of Tomerong stretches from Currambene Creek in the north to Tomerong village in the south; west to the Parish of Yerriyong and east to the Parish of Currambene.
Managerial practices such as stinting, or limiting the amount of cattle permitted, required weed removal, removal of straw, cutting thistles, ringing swine, and knobbing cow's horns to prevent grubbing were common.
Take Back the Land was formed in October 2006 to build the Umoja Village shantytown on a plot of unoccupied land to protest gentrification and a lack of low-income housing in Miami.
History Origins and history before 1886 Crofting communities were a product of the Highland Clearances (though individual crofts had existed before the clearances).
Each 36-square-mile (about 93.2 km2) township is divided into 36 sections of one square mile (640 acres, roughly 2.6 km2) each.
The legislation was shaped by the parliamentary contribution of William Blamire, a farmer and self-styled "practical man" who became a tithe commissioner.
During the Northern Wei dynasty, the government implemented the equal-field system (jūntián zhì, 均田制) in conjunction with the Three Elders system (sānzhǎng zhì, 三长制).
There, the love triangle among Prince Florian, Lady Vavir and the hunchbacked servant Mousta parallels the triangle in Yeomen among Fairfax, Elsie and Point.
They were accused of insurance fraud in delivering goods during the Punic wars, of excessive greed when collecting taxes in the provinces, of exceptionally cruel conduct towards slave labour working in the mines, and of fraudulent practices in trying to get rid of unprofitable public contracts.
This royal act recognized their bravery and loyalty in doing their duty, and designated them as the first members of a bodyguard to protect the King (or Queen) of England forever.
Battle honours Field of Stoke, 1487 Boulogne, 1492 Blackheath, 1497 Tournai 1513 Boulogne, 1544 Boyne, 1690 Dettingen, 1743 Honours in bold are displayed on the corps' standard.
Iltizams were sold off by the government to wealthy notables, who would then reap up to five times the amount they had paid by taxing the peasants and extracting agricultural production.
William Gladstone tried to pass a new law granting crofters more rights, but it was voted down in May 1885.
The governing African National Congress has emphasised the importance of the Act in facilitating the land reform objectives contained in the Constitution, whilst the Act has been criticised by, amongst others, the Democratic Alliance, and the Trump administration.
In the royal households of Edward II, Edward III, and Edward IV, the Chief Officers, and some of their responsibilities, were: The Steward oversaw the Offices concerned with household management.
This is a private easement and the rights granted by the property owner are for the specific use of communications.
Land acquisition is the power of the union or a state government in India to take private land for public, and to compensate the original owners and other persons affected due to such acquisition.
Mengistu and his advisers believed that state farms would produce grain for urban areas and raw materials for domestic industry and would also increase production of cash crops such as coffee to generate badly needed foreign exchange.
Around 9 per cent of the country's land is held under the mailo system, which is similar to freehold.
Background Take Back the Land was originally formed in 2006 as an anti-gentrification organization inspired by the Landless Workers' Movement in Brazil and the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign in South Africa.
It appears that the survey was designed to identify baronies from which a greater servitium debitum could in future be obtained by the king.
Pollock & Maitland (1968) consider this remarkable since Bracton does allow that the lord cannot substitute for himself in the bond of homage a new lord who is the enemy of the tenant, or too needy to fulfil the duties of warranty.
The Scottish Crofting Federation (SCF), formerly called the Scottish Crofting Foundation (also formerly called the Scottish Crofters Union), is an organization of crofting communities in the highlands and islands of Scotland.
This area represented 0.2% of land in the South; ultimately the Johnson proclamation required the Bureau to re-allocate most of it to its former owners.
Phoebe, seeing her adored Fairfax pledged to another, bursts into tears, while Point, shocked by the turn of events, wishes he was dead.
History Founded in 1890 as the Single Tax League of Victoria, it was later known as the Henry George League of Victoria, then as Tax Reform Australia, before adopting its present name in 2000.
In 2011, there was a Regimental Celebration of 40 years since the founding of the Royal Wessex Yeomanry, although, at this time, the Dorset Yeomanry was not part of the regiment.
Australia While not the first time radical title was mentioned, the concept came to prominence in Australian law in the case of Mabo v Queensland (No 2), which recognised the existence of native title under Australian law.
The Tudor rose, a heraldic badge of the dynasty, is part of the badge of the Yeomen Warders to this day.
Media interest and awards In 2018 they won Best Crofting Newcomer awarded by the Scottish Crofting Federation at the Spirit of Crofting Festival and the Cairngorms Nature Farm Award awarded by the Cairngorms National Park Authority.
Modifications to land reform In 1958, three provisions of the land reform law were revised: The interest on the bonds the government used to repay owners of seized land was lowered to 1.5%.
Iraq Under British Mandate, Iraq's land was moved from communal land owned by the tribe to tribal sheikhs that agreed to work with the British Empire.
Although abolished for general trade in 1997, octroi was still being charged on certain commodities such as electricity as late as 2006.
The black population was allowed to move in mainly as contract labourers who lived in separate areas (townships) with housing and other social services inferior to those of “white areas”.
Former manor house buildings often were used as local schools, administrative buildings or hospitals.
'whole lands'; Ukrainian: цілина́, romanized: tsilina) is an umbrella term for underdeveloped, scarcely populated, high-fertility lands often covered with the chernozem soil.
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1861 (24 & 25 Vict.
There were occasions when force was used, such as the violent confrontations in the Staffordshire Potteries and North Wales in 1839 between protesters and the yeomen of Staffordshire, Shropshire and Montgomeryshire; there were injuries on both sides and at least four deaths among the protesters.
Collings became derisively known as "Three Acres and a Cow Collings." His advocacy for smallholdings in January 1886 was one factor in Lord Salisbury's government falling.
Surviving census fragments from the Tang dynasty further show that while most households had sufficient yongye fields (永業田, hereditary land), very few had the required koufen land.
Thus, from the view of Shafiite scholars, an unclaimed land property could be freely given by Islamic government to particular individual whom they saw can cultivate and process the land plot so it can became productive land.
Modern remnants Although today any surviving remnants of grand sergeanty are regarded as roles of high honour, it should be remembered that originally grand sergeanty was a duty, not a right.
John Macdonald Cameron, Wick Burghs (allied with the Crofters Party) Also standing in 1885 was Walter McLaren, a Land League-endorsed Independent Liberal who was beaten by Liberal candidate Robert Finlay in the Inverness Burghs.
Property subject to expropriation Under section 25(4)(b) of the Constitution, expropriation provisions extend beyond land to encompass both movable and immovable assets.
They also maintained the "belief that gangs afforded the most efficient means of labor organization", something nearly all former slaves resisted.
The inaugural issue was four pages in length and during the first decade after inception, the number of pages grew to 16, including advertisements.
One way that land is accumulated is through unitary inheritance, in contrast to life estates or partible inheritance which tend to redistribute land over time.
Lipton are invaluable to researchers and policymakers in their endeavour to address problems of poverty, inequality and sustainability.
Similarly, there may be a private easement to cross a private lake to reach a remote private property, or an easement to cross private property during high tide to reach remote beach property on foot.
The town grew larger following the 1913 Natives' Land Act that declared the area a homeland for the Tswana people.
The first-named life tenant acted as tenant and paid rent and heriots; while the other two were said to be "in reversion and remainder" and effectively formed a queue.
For example, a right of way may cross a field, without any visible path, or allow egress through another building for fire safety purposes.
Robozoic, by Brett Doar, has a very simple brain created with a rotating cylinder which works similarly to a music box.
It encourages students to be creative, learn more about robots, learn about the Natural environment and how to help protect it, and prepares them for future jobs.
Marks of 4 or 5 are given for answers that are essentially correct, but are poorly presented or lack showing of work in some areas.
All correct questions are worth 5 points and all incorrect questions or skipped questions that are before the last answered questions will lose 4 points; answers are to be given with three significant figures.
Started in 2006, DREAM challenges collaborate with Sage Bionetworks to provide a platform for competitions run on the Synapse platform.
Team members were allowed to consult with each other, and no points were deducted for an incorrect response.
Since they measure some mathematical abilities of the students, They identify talented or gifted students in mathematics, who often receive opportunities for scholarships at universities.
A few teams chose to continue to Adelaide afterwards, with one team from Japan completing the course in a month.
Italy Currently, the selection process for IPO in Italy happens through the "Campionati (Ex Olimpiadi) di Filosofia" which are a ministerially recognized competition.
The paper for the school round has no restrictions, but the paper for the local round may consist of 4 problems, a multiple-choice test, or a mixed test, with both elements.
13 Sri Lankan Astronomy and Astrophysics Olympiads and 9 Sri Lankan Junior Astronomy Olympiads have been held as of September 7, 2019.
Spirit of the Competition – This award is given to the team displaying the most team spirit as decided by a panel of judges.
For their final challenge, they then present the innovation that they developed during their mentorship.
History The International Science and Engineering Fair was founded in 1950 by Science Service (now the Society for Science) and was sponsored by Intel from 1997 to 2019.
Executive directors Christopher Cartwright, 2024- Elmer Santos, 2023-2024 Christopher Cartwright, 2021-2023 Chan-Jin Chung, 1999-2020 Notable alumni Joshua E.
Experiments selected for flight have included research into crystal growth, composting, cell division, seed germination, and calcium metabolism.
The tasks are designed to connect the branches of science, provide relevant and inquiry-based challenges, engage all team members, support self-pacing, prompt higher-order and creative thinking, and encourage substantive communication.
The aims of each ISO are to promote a career in science; to challenge the brightest students from around the world; and to compare the various teaching systems of each country.
Overview Open to all school-aged students (4 to 18 years old), World Maths Day involves participants playing 20 × 60-second games, with the platform heavily based on "Live Mathletics" found in Mathletics.
History 1960s The series first aired on Thursday 7 July 1966 on BBC1 at 18:30 and was called Science Fair '66.
Within the age categories, the tracks split teams into four more groups, with a boys-only track, a girls-only track, a mixed team track and a cadet track.
Therefore, the scope of the USNCO is different than the scope of what would be expected at the training camp or IChO.
The Congressional Internet Caucus Advisory Committee introduced the concept for the Congressional App Challenge in 2013 and the challenge was co-chaired by Congressional Internet Caucus co-chairs Rep.
Judging Papers passing the national selection round move on to the international expert judging panel.
Two participation tracks are available: Residential track: a week-long programme in London including project presentations and cultural visits.
In the past, it has had members from Hampshire County, Massachusetts, and Windham County, Connecticut.
As well as science, the series featured a running serial of Captain Scarlet, using soundtracks from the television series of the same name.
BMO Round 1 The first round of the BMO is held in November each year, and from 2006 is an open entry competition.
In recent years, there has been a super relay, where two groups of seven team members (fourteen in all) both work to give a correct answer to the fifteenth team member.
A typical match (excluding Robocon 2015 and Robocon 2025) lasts three minutes but may end earlier if a team achieves a “K.O.” victory, which immediately concludes the game.
The original plan of the full ImageNet would have roughly 50M clean, diverse and full resolution images spread over approximately 50K synsets.
In 2019, contest sponsorship was fully transferred to the NSS and renamed in 2023 to the NSS Gerard K.
Past venues for the world championship include Montreal, Canada; San Diego, USA; Vienna, Austria; Washington, DC, USA; Cape Town, South Africa; Florence, Italy; Cairns, Australia; Baltimore, USA; Toronto, Canada; and Copenhagen, Denmark.
2004 Champion:Fudan University Maximum problem solved: 6 Host:North South University Champion's position at the world final: 6th Notes: Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology secured 2nd place.
sanctioned country) online science competition sponsored by Google, Lego, Virgin Galactic, National Geographic and Scientific American.
Official sponsorship in 2011 came from the University of Tennessee department of physics, among others.
Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 FIRST Championship World Championship Results The following tables show the winners of each division and the divisional playoff results.
History The contest grew out of the National Science Foundation-funded MATE Center at Monterey Peninsula College.
Chaired by Iliana Raeva, it gathered 16 teams from 11 countries, including the first time for Germany, Slovenia and South Korea.
Particle Accelerator (lost preliminary round) Winning robots Season 1: Run Amok Season 2: Flexy Flyer at the Wayback Machine (archived August 6, 2002) Season 3: Panzer Mk.
The presence of an independent Problem Committee and Jury means that team leaders do not have to be experts in the field (though most are): they can (and often do) work closely with their teams, providing last-minute coaching throughout the week of the competition.
Each level has many rounds, always including a Sprint Round (30 questions, 40 minutes) and a Target Round (4 pairs of harder problems with calculator use, 6 minutes each pair).
First held in 1984, the PMO was created as a venue for high school students with interest and talent in mathematics to compete.
Aims IrBO tried to challenge and stimulate gifted students to expand their talents and to promote their career as biologists.
Anyone who wants to can participate in the first round but only students who have received more than 75 points qualify for the next round.
IMO Selection Papers For more information about IMO selection in other countries, see International Mathematical Olympiad selection process Since 1985, further selection tests have been used after BMO2 to select the IMO team.
With the endeavor of the members of the committee, the daily newspaper Prothom Alo, and the Dutch Bangla Bank Limited, the committee promptly achieved its primary goal – to send a team to the International Mathematical Olympiad.
It has inspired similar competition in related fields, in particular the successful SMT-COMP competition for satisfiability modulo theories, the SAT Competition for propositional reasoners, and the modal logic reasoning competition.
In the 53rd International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO), the Korean delegation won 209 out of 252 out of the total score and 6 gold medals and ranked the first place for the first time in history.
In particular, the prize recognizes outstanding contributions relevant to the progress of complexity science.
In Japan, a large portion of the top competitors come from school teams from secondary school, with tournaments being exclusively held for them.
Intermediate Mathematical Challenge The Intermediate Mathematical Challenge (IMC) is aimed at school years equivalent to English Years 9-11, taking place in winter each year.
Discovery Education 3M Young Scientist Challenge is another, and it used to be called Discovery Channel Young Scientist Challenge (DCYSC), which was targeted at grades 5-8 (in the US system).
While other exercises examine the abilities of a group of students to design, configure, and protect a network over the course of an entire semester, this competition is more focused on the operational task of assuming administrative and protective duties for an existing commercial network.
The 1987 World Solar Challenge was the first international solar-powered car race held in Australia.
According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the 2005 RoboGames held the record for the world's largest robot competition until being surpassed by VEX Worlds in 2016.
Both teams should know the result of the correction, although no details will be provided about the reason for the error, if any.
Administered by the Mathematical Association of America, students compete as individuals and as teams (as chosen by their Institution) for scholarships and team prize money.
In the academic year 2010–2011, the USAMTS briefly changed their format to two rounds of six problems each, and approximately six weeks are allotted for each round.
(As a consequence, IChO problems are regarded as "beginners' exercises" among those Chinese students.) == References ==
Temporal Summarization Track – Goal: to develop systems that allow users to efficiently monitor the information associated with an event over time.
Goals Comparable to other science competitions in the country, the OBA has its main goal of spreading the knowledge of astronomy throughout all of Brazilian society, encouraging youths' interest in astronomy and astronautics and in scientific thought in general.
Iranian Biology Olympiad (IrBO) is an annual multistage competition for Iranian high school students of the age of 17-18 in the field of biology.
See also American Physical Society (APS) International Physics Olympiad (IPhO) United States National Physics Olympiad == References ==
Sue Nelson presented the programme for most of its time on air, with Jez Nelson co-presenting the final series.
In the 2015 International Mathematical Olympiad, the Bangladesh team achieved one silver, four bronze, and one honorable mention, finishing in 33rd place.
The London International Youth Science Forum is a two week residential forum held at Imperial College London and The Royal Geographical Society.
The game has a steampunk theme and teams are required to shoot wiffle balls which represent fuel into a simulated boiler which transfers the generated steam into an airship in the middle of the field.
Ten countries were represented by a total of 18 teams (54 Students): Belgium (2 teams), Cyprus (2 teams), Estonia (2 teams), Germany (2 teams), Ireland (2 teams), Latvia (1 team), Netherlands (2 teams), Slovakia (1 team), Spain (2 teams) and Sweden (2 teams).
The database of annotations of third-party image URLs is freely available directly from ImageNet, though the actual images are not owned by ImageNet.
In this round, a similar multiple choice test (almost identical in layout to the first round) is given to the contestants.
Each chapter is organized independently by volunteer coordinators, typically affiliated with universities or neuroscience institutions.
As a safety measure, the first two laps were conducted under virtual safety car (VSC) to make sure the cars stayed together, making them de facto formation laps, even if they counted towards race distance.
CodinGame helps these companies to recruit developers through worldwide contests hosted every three months, or private hackathons.
The 2001 World Solar Challenge was one of a biennial series of solar-powered car races, covering about 3,000 km (1,900 mi) through the Australian Outback, from Darwin, Northern Territory to Adelaide, South Australia.
Army-sponsored online educational science fair for students in grades 6–9 in the United States or at US Army schools across the world.
Commercially available double-dummy programs can solve bridge problems in which all four hands are known, typically within a fraction of a second.
The participants have to be less than 20 years of age and may not have enrolled in a university study or a comparable educative scheme.
The 2007 competitions were the first with only 1.5 points awarded for a blank, to discourage students from leaving a large number of questions blank in order to assure qualification for the AIME.
Location Before 2002 After 2002 In 2002, the biennial China Adolescents Innovation Contest and Science Seminar (Chinese: 全国青少年发明创造比赛和科学讨论会) and the biennial China Adolescents Biology and Environmental Science Practice Project (Chinese: 全国青少年生物与环境科学实践活动) were combined into CASTIC.
In addition to the judging of projects and an open session for the public to view them, there is time set aside for students to experience the host city with tours and activities.
The North East Asian Mathematics Competition (NEAMC) is a three-stage mathematics competition in North East Asia.
Moore Award: Amy Chyao (Richardson, TX) Young Scientist Award: Kevin Ellis (Vancouver, WA) Young Scientist Award: Yale Fan (Beaverton, OR) ISEF 2011 (Los Angeles, California) Gordon E.
Performance All of the 6 delegations earned at least one medal, but the best result for the country is 2 bronze medals, earned only in 2017.
In 1986, the American Association of Physics Teachers led by Jack Wilson organized the United States Physics Team for the first time.
The Mathematical Society of the Philippines (MSP) selects a team from the top 20 PMO national finalists to represent the Philippines at the IMO.
Winning team Nearly 9,000 teams participated between 12:00PM EDT on October 27, 2011, and the deadline of 11:59PM EST on December 4, 2011, with the San Francisco-based team "All Your Shreds are Belong to U.S." winning the competition three days ahead of schedule.
Competitions typically involve entrants representing a large selection of countries, who compete in over fifty categories, such as autonomously navigating robots in RoboMagellan, combat robots, stair-climbing, weight-lifting, soccer bots, sumo bots, and kung-fu.
History The IMC began in 1994 in Plovdiv, Bulgaria, with 49 participants, mostly from Bulgaria, from 6 countries, and was hosted by Plovdiv University "Paisii Hilendarski".
Selection Process of the 108 Students for The TV Quiz: 17 National Winners + 37 State winners = 54 Students per category 17 National Winners – these students are the top 17 students who have scored the highest marks in the examinations, irrespective of their state of origin.
Most recently, robots are being equipped with a fan to create a partial vacuum under the mouse while it is running.
It is a team of students from different fields of the MIT WPU Faculty of Engineering and Technology, known for its consistent performance in the Indian National Robocon.
It is named after Miklós Schweitzer (1 February 1923 – 28 January 1945), a young Jewish Hungarian mathematician who was killed by the Nazis shortly before the Siege of Budapest in the Second World War.
Closing ceremony Closing ceremony involves giving roughly 60% of students a Medal (Gold to 10%, Silver to 20% and Bronze to 30%), but few also get a handful of special awards.
During the event, students and delegates are housed in separate hotels and get to meet each other on three occasions: Opening ceremony, cultural night and closing ceremony.
YUVIKA'19 The programme commenced on May 13, 2019, for the first time, as a two-week residential training programme held each summer holidays.
In Spring 2023, more than 35,000 students nationwide participated in the Noetic Learning Math Contest.
In 2016, a "data insights" problem was added, where teams are given access to database files and tasked with using them to answer a question.
Overall Standings 1999 Sunrayce 99, running from Washington, D.C., to Orlando, Florida, was notable for its lack of sunshine.
With several hundred annual participants, the Student Research Competition is considered the world's largest university-level research contest in the field of computing.
On June 29, 2010, United States House legislature passed recognizing the National CCDC for promoting cyber security curriculum.
Cars Robocar The world's first purpose-built autonomous racing car, Robocar, was designed by Daniel Simon, who previously worked on vehicles for movies such as Tron: Legacy and Oblivion, as well as designing the livery for the 2011 HRT Formula One car.
In addition, the top 50 students are recognized as achieving "High Honors" or "t50", and the next 100 students earn the "Honors" or "t150" designation.
The controller, motors and sensors used to assemble robots must be from LEGO MINDSTORMS sets (NXT or EV3).
The Balkan Mathematical Olympiad (BMO) is an international contest of winners of high-school national competitions from European countries.
When a team manages to solve a problem, it must immediately announce it to the referee and send it to him for correction.
warfighters operating in war zones, but might also identify vulnerabilities to sensitive information that is protected by shredding practices throughout the U.S.
The syllabus of the competition contains subjects from several areas of chemistry, including organic chemistry, inorganic chemistry, physical chemistry, analytical chemistry, biochemistry, and spectroscopy.
History Notes External links and references Problems, solutions, results and links (some of them broken) to web sites 1990-2010 Estonian Math Competitions.
Seven countries attended: Belgium, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Spain, and Sweden.
It had been formerly named as Pui Ching Middle School Invitational Mathematics Competition for the first three years.
However, the 34th edition was eventually canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic and replaced by an online competition "for the pleasure".
At the first event in 2025, there were few robot competitors and their performance was inadequate with only one finishing within the time limit of 3 hours and 10 minutes.
Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology - BUET Bengal Tigers team became the champion and moved to the world final which was held on 28 February 1998 at Atlanta, Georgia, United States.
The following is the full list of medal winners from Bangladesh: See also Bangladesh Physics Olympiad Bangladesh Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics Bangladesh Biology Olympiad References External links Official website
At the end of the relay round, there will be a team round, where four people from the team will compete to answer five questions together.
If a student studies abroad but has their legal residence in the US, that student may participate, but must pay for their own travel expenses to US testing locations if they advance in the competition.
A trophy is given to the champion, as well as the runner-up and the other two forecasters who make it to the "Final Four".
This is usually an unusual, unique, or invented topic so students are forced to deal with complex new mathematical ideas.
Bush called the competition the "Super Bowl of science." History While attending the 1939 New York World's Fair, Society for Science director Watson Davis met Edward Pendray, a Westinghouse Electric Corporation executive.
The physics and mathematics school (now known as the Republican college), founded in 1977, also contributed.
2011: LAUNCH Energy The LAUNCH: Energy forum took place in November 2011 at the Kennedy Space Center and highlighted innovations in sustainable energy systems.
Notable recognised projects include: a hydrogen-powered aircraft engineering project (gold, 2022) a CO₂ capture materials project (gold, 2024) environmental projects from Indonesia receiving multiple medals short films Return and Her Blues (gold, 2024).
Another sentiment is that rather than spending time on excessive competing by solving problems with known solutions, high-profile programmers should instead invest their time in solving real-world problems.
They are often included as part of the curriculum for cybersecurity courses, with the NSA organized Cyber Exercise culminating in a CTF competition between the US service academies and military colleges.
Robson is noted for her work on data infrastructure, the transition from high school to postsecondary education, and statistics.
Winners of the 2003 competition included the League of Electronic Musical Urban Robots (LEMUR), which consisted of five robots which acted as self-playing instruments and took the Audience Choice Award.
History This competition was created in 1987 and was called Championnat de France des jeux mathématiques et logiques (French competition for mathematical and logical games) at that time.
Since 2002, test problems have been posted on the AMC website (see links below) fifteen minutes prior to the official start of the test.
The purpose of the Math League Contests is to provide students "an enriching opportunity to participate in an academically-oriented activity" and to let students "gain recognition for mathematical achievement".
Entangling weapons were prohibited in Robot Wars and BattleBots from 1997 onward, but the Robotica competitions allowed nets, magnets, and other entanglers on a case-by-case basis, and Robot Wars allowed limited use of entanglers in Series 10.
LeetCode has gained popularity among job seekers in the software industry and coding enthusiasts as a resource for technical interviews and coding competitions.
Originally during this time, 1 point was awarded for leaving an answer blank, however, it was changed in the late 1980s to 2 points.
Seven teams were able to successfully finish the entire course, while eight others completed enough of it to satisfy the judges, resulting in fifteen vehicles making it to the final race.
The questions are loosely grouped into 10 sets of 6 items; each set corresponds to a different chemistry topic.
Students compete for cash awards and a spot at the International BioGENEius Competition held at the BIO conference.
The European Young Engineers (EYE) is a European non-profit organisation, listed in the register of Engineering associations of the World Federation of Engineering Associations.
The technology could also be used in civilian settings, such as autonomous snow clearing at airports.
Students selected from the competition are trained at the Department of Physics, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka Planetarium and at the Arthur C.
EUSO 2017 The 15th EUSO was held in Copenhagen, Denmark on 7–14 May 2017; there were 144 competitors from 24 EU countries.
The robots must operate autonomously; once they are switched on to compete no interference from the team is allowed.
Details on the 2025 competition and awards can be found in the 2025 rulebook and 2025 challenges document 2024: "Final Frontier" The competition that was held at the University of Southampton on 13 and 14 April 2024.
In 2026, there were over 300 robots and the best surpassed the human field of over 12,000, beating the human world record by about 7 minutes.
She contributed to the publication of several lighting recommended practices by the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) including ANSI/IES RP-43-22: Lighting for Exterior Applications and ANSI/IES LP-2-20: Designing Quality Lighting for People in Outdoor Environment.
Generally, solving these problems includes conducting experiments, constructing theoretical models, and literature analysis.
Awards and recognition Students who participate in the Noetic Learning Math Contest can earn the following awards and recognition, based on their performance: Team Winner: The top scorer on the team.
Since 2010 the IMC has been hosted by the American University in Bulgaria, in Blagoevgrad, with assistance from the South-West University "Neofit Rilski" in Blagoevgrad.
The top three students for each school section will receive respectively a gold, silver, or bronze Certificate for Outstanding Achievement.
The International Junior Science Olympiad (IJSO) is an annual science competition for students aged 15 and under.
After the race ended several teams continued on to the course finish in Adelaide, including a team from Japan who took one month to finish the course.
Since January 2026, the competition has been broken up: around 250 students participate in each of AMO Summer and AMO Winter competitions, and the 60 top students go on to participate in the AMO Finals.
A satellite link broadcast live data and video streaming for the whole duration of the trip (except in China) so that everybody on the Internet was able to witness the progress of the experiment.
The aim of the organizers with organizing such a new type of a competition was to acquaint secondary school students with the methods of scientific research.
Here are the results for Iranian team in IBO competitions: Organization IrBO is supported by The Ministry of Education, Iran.
Work history Robson has worked as a Senior Research Officer at the Institute for Social and Economic Research at the University of Essex.
They attended the competition award ceremony on 22 March at the Newseum, where Zahaan Bharmal announced the two winning experiments: Dorothy Chen and Sara Ma's bacteria experiment, and Amr Mohamed's jumping spider experiment.
References External links ATS (A*STAR Graduate Academy) website ATS (Science Centre Singapore) website
The Chem-E-Car Competition is an annual college engineering competition, mainly geared towards students studying Chemical Engineering or similar disciplines.
In the 1980s and 1990s, other specialized STEM schools, including Virginia's Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology and Maryland's Montgomery Blair High School, began to produce large numbers of finalists to rival the New York schools.
Individual contestants may receive gold, silver, or bronze medals, which are awarded by the International Board following recommendations from the Jury; the total number of medals cannot exceed half of all invited participants.
During #HouseofCode, students demonstrate their apps to members from the House of Representatives, hear from speakers, and meet professionals from the Washington D.C.
In addition to multiple days in the exhibit hall for judging, competitors travel to various science museums and attractions in the host city.
From 2001 to 2006, the program existed as an informal, web-based educational activity known as the Linguistics Challenge.
As of January 2026, LeetCode offers 3816 questions across its three levels of difficulty; with 922 questions categorized as easy, 1922 as medium, and 902 as hard.
In 2015, the United States used a different qualification process, inviting the top two teams from the 2014 HiMCM to compete in the IMMC.
The overall winner was Aurora 101, built by the Aurora Solar Car Team of Australia at an average speed of 72.96 km/h.
The International Science Olympiads are a group of worldwide annual competitions in various areas of the formal sciences, natural sciences, and social sciences.
In 2019 Google awarded Bebras Indonesia a $1 million grant to support the program and further train teachers in the field of computer science.
However, some artists working with electronics and robotics are invited to participate in ArtBots, showing a "kinetic tree" at the 2005 festival.
Mice start at a dead end in one corner, and the goal area is a rectangular room, typically 2×2, in the center of the maze.
IranOpen 2008 Azad University of Qazvin for the third consequent year was approved by Iranian RoboCup National Committee to organize RoboCup IranOpen2008.
ROBO-ONE Technical Conference: An annual one-day conference, typically held in Kawasaki, Japan, focused on sharing information and promoting the sport.
Students submit a project proposal to a scientific evaluation committee that reviews their proposed research.
A prize of USD 10,000 would be available each year until 2020 to reward the first program, running on a standard consumer computer, capable of defeating a high-level human player in a match of six games or more.
Chinese Chemistry Olympiad (Chinese: 中国化学奥林匹克竞赛) is an annual academic competition held by Chinese Chemical Society.
The size of designed cars cannot exceed certain specifications and cars must operate using "green" methods, which do not release any pollution or waste in the form of a visible liquid or gas, such as exhaust.
Qualifying classification Attack/Defend challenge Attack/Defend challenge report In this part of the event, cars would be put on a series of 1v1 duels to see how well they could defend their position or attack to gain one higher.
280 teams competed with more than 500 humanoid robots in 26 events including boxing, football, cleaning, and sorting medicines.
Three hours into the event which was scheduled to last ten hours, only four vehicles remained operational.
Examples include the Hudson Data Jam, hosted by Cary Institute of Environmental Systems, in which students are asked to tell a story based on raw data collected from the watershed of the Hudson River and the Capitol Code, a data jam based on the Office of the Minnesota Secretary of State.
It was featured against presenter James May in the Range Rover in an off-road challenge in the Nevada Automotive Test Center, Nevada, USA.
All those who have not received a medal but have scored the maximum points in at least one of the six problems receive an honorable mention.
Dorothy and Sara went to the Tanegashima Space Center in Japan in late July to watch the Kounotori 3 launch the winning experiments into space.
It is hosted by the Icelandic Mathematical Organization (Íslenska stærðfræðafélagið) and the Natural Sciences's Teacher Association, and the largest competition of its kind in the country.
At the Goodwood Festival of Speed, Robocar became the first ever fully autonomous race car to complete the Goodwood Hill Climb.
The first car race was held on 27 April 2024 at the Yas Marina Circuit, marking the first major autonomous formula race outside the US since the now-folded Roborace championship.
When the team is ready to move on to the next set, the representative approaches the grading station to submit their answers for the current set and pick up the questions for the next set.
From problem writing to logistics, the competition is handled primarily by undergraduate students at the universities.
In this round, four questions are given, and each student after the first must use the answer given to them from the previous question to answer the next one.
Additionally the champions and the top ten students in the world are awarded gold medals every year.
Brian Arthur Special Prize for Diffusion and Promotion of the Culture of Complexity 2013 Riccardo Luna 2009 Mark Buchanan 2008 Philip Ball References External links List of Winners on CRT Foundation website Archived 2018-01-10 at the Wayback Machine List of Winners on ISI Foundation website
The armwrestling match of EAP robotic arm against human (AMERAH) is a challenge posed by Yoseph Bar-Cohen of the JPL in 1999.
The panel of judges consists of distinguished scientists from local and international universities, as well as A*STAR research institutes and a Nobel Laureate as the Chief Judge.
The competition selects winners on state, regional, and finally national levels for each grade level.
Teams who win their regional event are welcome to participate at the worldwide tournament held at Lawrence Technological University in Michigan.
The winning team in each regional round, as well as a few high-scoring runners-up from throughout the country, are then invited to the National Final in London, usually in late June.
In addition to the difficulty most vehicles had with the harsh terrain, many initial designs also struggled to handle both sensing upcoming obstacles and following the GPS waypoints simultaneously.
Stashik was a Principal at the Philadelphia based lighting design firm, Grenald Waldron Associates before joining Acuity Brands Lighting.
Both physicists, Marianne used her background in cryptography and Don used his background in computer science.
Vehicles would climb the ribbon powered by a beam of energy projected from the surface of the Earth.
Emily Wyant, the closest living witness to Bernall's death, denied that Bernall and Harris had such an exchange.
It was repugnant to the bulk of the citizenry of this state." However, Connelly ruled that Schwarzenegger remained within his executive powers as governor.
A Hartford Courant report said that six of the children who escaped did so when Lanza stopped shooting, either because his weapon jammed or he erred in reloading it.
Harris and Klebold were both fans of shooter video games such as Doom, Quake, Duke Nukem 3D and Postal.
Brenner said of George that he "added a lot of pain to a very traumatic and painful time in my life." See also Violence against LGBT people Gay panic defense References Sources Pohlman, H.
Dance Dance Revolution is a non-violent exercising game where "the user is required to move their feet rhythmically in response to video cues".
Klebold expressed shame for his sexual interests, which included bondage and foot fetishism, stating that, "My humanity has a foot fetish, & bondage exteme [sic] liking.
After Carmona's death, Venezuela's anti-government protesters placed posters in various areas of Valencia, condemning Ameliach's tweet and linked it to the killing of Carmona.
Notoriety The case of Winnifred Teo went on to become one of Singapore's most infamous unsolved murder cases.
Soon after, the British coroner decided to release the body to the Indian consulate, so that arrangements could be made to return it to Pune for the funeral ceremony to take place there.
She also said the crime was "extremely unique and extremely violent," recommending the maximum sentence of life in prison.
In June 2012, Judge Blackwood again granted new trials for Davidson, Cobbins, and Thomas, basing his decision on the "13th juror rule".
Burton Abbott told multiple, contradictory stories including that he had been at the family's cabin 285 miles away near Wildwood, Trinity County, California, when Stephanie disappeared.
Two other men who were there during the time of Santos's death were stabbed by Núñez, and a fourth man was punched in the face by Thomas.
Direct responsible for murder they call Department of fight against extremism of Office of fight against organized crime (UBOP) of the Moscow region and personally the chief of this department Alexey Okopny.
In recent years prior to the murder, Anderson worked as a bartender at several Milwaukee establishments.
Paul Vance of the Connecticut State Police responded that the information from this meeting was "law enforcement sensitive information" and considered the release to be a leak.
Snook confessed to the crime, but during the course of the trial he rescinded his confession because he was coerced by police and prosecutors.
Richard Allen's last name was recorded incorrectly on the tip when submitted, and the file was therefore wrongly marked as "cleared"; the file clerk deduced that the tip from years earlier was regarding Richard Allen, and brought it to the case's investigator.
The Turkish government began investigating domestic and international affiliations of the suspect shortly after identification.
However, officers from the Santa Clara County Sheriff's Office went to the church and reported all the outer doors were locked.
He was found guilty of the crime in 2008, and was sentenced to life imprisonment with a 24-year non-parole period.
Some of the survivors of the shooting and their relatives were targeted by online harassment that included death threats.
Killing Juan Pablo Pernalete studied accounting at the Metropolitan University of Caracas, where he received a scholarship to play basketball.
Some students from the Stoneman Douglas High School, who were active in calling for stricter gun control (not just safety measures), said the measure was passed because lawmakers "pass something very easy and simple that everyone can get behind.
It remains among the most infamous massacres in the United States and the deadliest mass shooting in Colorado.
Clint said that the man was wearing a hat and camouflage clothing from head to toe and identified the pattern as either Mossy Oak break up or leafy wear.
They both attempted to get another friend and coworker, Chris Morris, who was a part of the Trench Coat Mafia, to keep the napalm at his house, but he refused.
The killing of David Vallenilla was documented in a report by a panel of independent experts from the Organization of American States, considering that it could constitute a crime against humanity committed in Venezuela along with other killings during the protests.
The design of the new school incorporates numerous security features, including bulletproof glass exteriors, fencing around the perimeter of the building, and fortified safe rooms.
On July 17, police distributed a composite sketch of someone sought as a person of prime interest in the murders.
They said she usually wore pink jogging shoes and brief shorts during her jogs but never spoke to her due to her being stern-looking.
A warrant was issued after traces of Thomas' DNA were discovered on the firearm used in the shooting.
Carr waived his right to a jury trial in exchange for an agreement by the prosecution not to seek the death penalty.
A special black ribbon was being sold to support the fund available at the many events being held across Rossendale and in local shops.
After an impasse between the Australian Government, the Australian Capital Territory, and Chinese officials over the lack of an extradition treaty and the possibility of Long being executed upon conviction in China, an agreement was reached in 2007 to not impose the death penalty.
Effect on the community 2014 In March 2014, the Newtown city officials announced the design for the new Sandy Hook Elementary School.
In the wake of the riots, Mayor Paul Schell announced a moratorium on Mardi Gras celebrations in Seattle.
The book claimed that Pozner had fabricated the death certificate of his son Noah, a six-year-old victim of the shooting.
As part of the deal, Thompson changed his plea in regards to the murder of Goosey to "guilty" and was eligible for a second life sentence running concurrently with the first life sentence.
On January 30, 1998, Harris and Klebold were arrested for breaking into a white van parked near Littleton and stealing tools and computer equipment.
Sharia courts may treat blasphemy against Islam as deserving of several punishments up to, and including, execution.
The prosecution also emphasized that in both cases the alternate suspects would have had to return to the park and place Lee's body close to where she was last seen.
Senator Lindsey Graham stated that the killing of Riley would "change the 2024 election as much as anything".
A flare gun was fired through the window of one of the Central Committee offices, causing a fire, which provided the authorities with grounds to launch a severe crackdown on the protests.
In 2023, The New Zealand Herald reported that Li (using the alias Leo Li) had entered New Zealand using a fake identity in June 2019.
In January 2015, Bushmaster's attorneys petitioned to have the suit moved to federal court because, although the shooting took place in Connecticut, it is located in North Carolina.
Additionally, this was the first time in Greek history where the term femicide was used by the Greek media to describe gendered violence against women.
Esteban allegedly blamed Le for ruining her relationship with her ex-boyfriend, with whom she had a child, but denied any involvement in Le's disappearance.
On May 6, 2009, the Utah State prosecutors dropped the murder charges against Christopher Neal Jeppson instead of seeking the death penalty.
Because of the evidence in this case, we believe that these two life sentences are the best that he could get." This also meant that Thompson did not receive capital punishment and life without parole penalties that could have resulted from being convicted of Goosey's murder.
Flowers were also regularly placed at the lay-by at Hawford where she was found, and the location named Le Jardin de Céline (Céline's Garden) in her memory.
However, as of 18 February 2017, three years after Carmona's death, the Venezuelan has never resolved the case surrounding her death.
On March 28, 2013, court documents released from the investigation showed that the shooting had occurred in the space of less than five minutes with 156 shots fired.
Riley, along with other women and girls reportedly killed by undocumented immigrants including Jocelyn Nungaray, a 12-year-old Houston girl killed in June 2024, were heavily featured in the Trump 2024 presidential campaign and his political advertisements on illegal immigration and border security.
Arredondo did not attend a City Council meeting on June 7; when mayor McLaughlin was questioned on Arredondo's absence, McLaughlin said he "can't answer that." When journalists visited the UCISD headquarters, where Arredondo was, law enforcement ordered them to leave.
The map was removed in 2002 and replaced with a bronze memorial plaque that was installed on a pedestal outside the Municipal Building.
A jewelry store surveillance camera captured Gardner-Quinn walking east with Rooney at approximately 2:34 am.
A CBS News story in March 2006 reported that Kime's organs had been made available for donation after his death.
A day of civic mourning was declared by the Mayor of La Spezia, with schools and local institutions participating in commemorations.
On February 18, 2021, the words "In Memoriam Gracie Muehlberger and Dominic Blackwell" were added to the sign at the entrance to Central Park to honor the victims of the shooting, following a decision by the Santa Clarita Water Board on December 15, 2020.
On January 29, 2020, the San Luis Obispo police department confirmed that two trucks owned by Flores had been taken in as evidence.
In addition to her passion for fashion, music, and photography, she was an avid viewer of classic movies, and often spoke of her desire to become a renowned Hollywood actress.
In October 2007, she attended the University of Perugia, where she began courses in modern history, political theory, and the history of cinema.
He joined the football team in his senior season, when he caught 31 passes for 682 yards and helped lead the Dragons to a 10–2 season.
Crawford, a security guard at Stanford who reportedly discovered the body, killed himself before he could be arrested.
During Magidson's testimony, a tape of his initial interview with the police was shown, in which an investigator was recorded coaching him to use the trans panic defense: "You'd be surprised.
According to Cobbins, Davidson took the woman into a bedroom once they arrived at the residence, and Boyd drove away with the man.
Schwartz was on his way to a park along with friends with whom he had been constructing, as a volunteer, a memorial park in honor of three Israeli boys who were kidnapped and murdered by Hamas in 2014.
On the evening of 22 May 1985, 18-year-old Winnifred Teo Suan Lie (张碹丽 Zhāng Xuànlì), then a student of Catholic Junior College, went out for an evening jog as usual, but never came back.
In August 1986, Dann contacted her ex-boyfriend Steve Witt, who was by then a resident at a New York hospital and now married to a different woman, and claimed to have had his child.
Rios fully denied the murder, but he conceded that he and Valencia had sexual liaisons when Schermerhorn was brought up as a witness.
Critics cite the fact that Klebold, not Harris, was the first to mention a killing spree in his journal.
He was angry for being sent to a non-existent assignment, and he talked for 30 minutes in the car with his sister Martha and her husband Gene, who had driven down to visit him at 9 a.m.
External links Hannah Foster Murder Verdict - Sky News Hannah's Killer: Nowhere To Hide - Real Crime
He would later be transferred to Spiritus Santos hospital where he underwent several blood transfusions.
After a further two hours of deliberation, the jury recommended a 26-year sentence: 25 years for second-degree murder, and one year for grand larceny.
Due to gunshot reverberation within the hallways, the fire alarm within the building activated, causing confusion because there had been a fire drill earlier in the day.
Finding his house vacated, they also interviewed his wife and took a DNA sample from one of his two sons.
The Book of Matt Stephen Jimenez, the producer of the 2004 20/20 segment, went on to write a book, The Book of Matt: Hidden Truths About the Murder of Matthew Shepard, which was published in September 2013.
Journalist Howard Rosenberg of the Los Angeles Times wrote, "CNN carelessly crossed a line Thursday by airing a tasteless close-up of the body of Bill Cosby's murdered son, Ennis, lying in a pool of blood...
In the latter song, he references the perpetrators in the lyrics, "I take seven kids from Columbine, stand 'em all in a line, add an AK-47, a revolver, a nine, a MAC-11 and it oughtta solve the problem of mine.
At the time of the shooting, in Florida, it was legal for people as young as 18 to purchase guns from federally licensed dealers, including the rifle allegedly used in the shooting.
See also List of solved missing person cases (post-2000) Pippa Bacca - Italian peace activist raped and murdered in Turkey == References ==
A few days later, Kohli fled to his family's home in Chandigarh, India, later assuming a new identity in Darjeeling, but was extradited in 2007.
At trial, Carr claimed he had been enraged by the sight of the two women having sex, and that the two women had taunted him by having sex in front of him.
At about 10 a.m., she walked from Sterling Hall to another campus building at 10 Amistad Street, where her research laboratory was located.
Afterwards, Snook hit Hix with a ball-peen hammer multiple times before cutting her jugular vein with a pocketknife.
Kirsten Marina Costas (July 23, 1968 – June 23, 1984) was an American high school student who was murdered by her classmate Bernadette Protti in June 1984.
On September 15, 2015, Matthew was formally charged with first degree murder and abduction with intent to defile in the murder of Harrington.
Mackenzie Lueck Mackenzie Speth Lueck was born on March 8, 1996, and raised in the city of El Segundo in Los Angeles County, along with one older brother and two younger brothers.
Casualties Seventeen people were killed, of which fourteen died on the site, while three more succumbed to their injuries the next day.
The photos, showing Bednar's body, were posted to other members of the six-person online gaming group.
Through this fund, Sylvia Guerrero and her family spoke in middle and high schools about transgender awareness and understanding.
Occurring during the Mexican Dirty War, the massacre resulted in nearly 120 demonstrators being killed, among them a 14-year-old boy.
Clozza's execution was the 12th execution after the Commonwealth of Virginia resumed executions in 1982, as well as the 150th in the United States after the nation's resumption of capital punishment in 1976.
On September 24, Longo, during a joint press conference with the FBI, announced that the suspect had been arrested in a sparsely populated part of Galveston County, Texas, after being recognized by a woman on a beach.
The center mobilized voters to elect Houston's first black mayor, organizes an annual Pan African Cultural Festival, and contributed to efforts to build the Third Ward Multi-Service Center.
He tried to lie and blame others for it, but if there was no Robert Chan, Stuart Tay would still be alive today." On Tuesday May 3, 1994, Robert Chan was convicted of first-degree murder.
The defense responded by showing the jury letters from Garza's jail stating that he was willing to cooperate with the FBI in the trial for a reduced sentence.
On October 25, police announced that they had charged Rooney with aggravated homicide in the death of Gardner-Quinn.
There were also other issues that deeply affected the national sentiments of the youth, notably the so-called "quota obsession" in determining the ethnic composition of the student body—a practice some leaders had begun to enforce rigorously just before the events.
Before Robinson's death, she and Anderson were seen going on a date at a seafood restaurant where he used to work.
Within days of Howard's death, former Miami Edison Senior High School teammate Chris Chancellor, then playing cornerback for the Clemson Tigers, paid tribute to Howard by changing his number from 38 to 6.
Bolden and Barnes were also charged with attempted murder in an unrelated shooting in December 2011 at a party in South Los Angeles, which left a woman seriously wounded and a man paralyzed.
The poem's third stanza was subsequently engraved on a monument commemorating the 25th anniversary of the events on the site.
On the morning of March 5, 2008, Eve Marie Carson was abducted, robbed and shot to death in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States where she was a student at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Criminal trials and sentencing Charles Choe pleaded guilty to first degree murder and acted as the key prosecution witness in exchange for being prosecuted as a juvenile instead of as an adult.
Although these claims were later proven to be false, news outlets continued to run sensationalist stories with headlines such as "Killers Worshipped Rock Freak Manson" and "Devil-Worshipping Maniac Told Kids To Kill".
Lanza, his only caretaker and connection; worsening OCD; depression and anxiety; profound and possibly worsening anorexia; and an increasing obsession with mass murder occurring in the total absence of any engagement with the outside world.
On 19 February, West Mercia Police confirmed that a man had been arrested and was helping them with their inquiries.
In 2014 Isabel Rodríguez directed the documentary "Yolanda en el País de los estudiantes", which recounts the kidnapping and subsequent murder of González by the Batallón Vasco-Español.
The march encountered military barricades and prevented the hundreds of demonstrators from advancing, with participants deciding to protest in the space in which they were confined.
Crime spree On 19 June 2005, Ríos, armed with a Bersa Thunder 380 semiautomatic pistol, shot indiscriminately at a bus, injuring the driver and a passenger, and causing the bus to crash against two parked cars.
It also ruled that the plaintiffs can subpoena internal documents on how gun companies have marketed the AR-15.
On 12 December hundreds of people attended a vigil at NorQuest college to mourn and pay respect to Singh, the Alberta First Responders Association (AFRA) recognized Singh as an officer fallen in the line of duty.
On November 22, 1998, their friend Robyn Anderson purchased a carbine rifle and the two shotguns for the pair at the Tanner Gun Show, as they were too young to legally purchase the guns themselves.
G.'s mother testified that Carcaño had murdered Del Castillo but had no part in the body disposal, explaining her daughter's inconsistencies as due to being both afraid and in love with Carcaño.
The men also offered Furlong and her friend one of their rooms in the Keio Plaza Hotel in Shinjuku if they wished to stay over, however the women declined.
Any type of vulgar comment he could say, any type of rude comment to anybody in our dorm, any of the women." Ravita lived in the same dormitory as Theesfeld for a year and claimed Theesfeld and Kostial dated on and off again for about a year before her death.
The prosecution, while acknowledging that Morley's letters showed her to be "a cold-blooded killer", nevertheless used her letters to demonstrate the depravity of the group.
On September 19, 2011, the Alameda County coroner's office positively identified the remains to be those of Michelle Le.
Based on findings by the Cuyahoga County coroner, Mihaljevic's last meal was some soy substance, possibly an artificial chicken product or Chinese food.
Hogg, who worked on the school's TV station, then filmed student reactions to the shooting in an effort to document the event.
The ACT government did not want to because it may mean Long would face a firing squad in China if convicted.
Carcaño reiterated his latest confession before the court, insisting that Del Castillo's body was in La Majaloba, not the dump, and saying that he didn't understand why police were searching there.
Planting the bombs On Tuesday morning, April 20, 1999, Harris and Klebold placed two duffel bags in the cafeteria.
On June 21, Mayor McLaughlin announced that the Robb Elementary School building would be demolished.
Although he admitted that he helped move and bury the body, he refuses to tell authorities where the body is located.
Janet Robinson, superintendent of Newtown schools, said she had not found any connection between Lanza's mother and the school, in contrast to initial media reports that said Lanza's mother had worked there.
On November 2, 2022, Cruz was sentenced to life without parole, in accordance with a Florida law requiring the court not to depart from the jury's recommendation.
Bullets were also found in at least three cars parked outside the school, leading police to believe that he fired at a teacher who was standing near a window.
Connolly, an attorney for Damien Hernandez, told CBS News, "Though not one of the major participants, Damien deeply regrets his participation in the melee which resulted in Jonathan's tragic death.
In the letter, he stated how fortunate it was she had been met by a long-haired man who had offered her a lift home from the station when they were going their separate ways.
They were greeted by Chief Superintendent Russ Jackson of Greater Manchester Police, who had previously travelled to India to meet the family, Assistant Chief Constable Dawn Copley, and Barbara Spicer, the chief executive of Salford City Council.
The victims' bodies were removed from the school and formally identified during the night after the shooting.
Kunaev, in his own book, said that Gorbachev never asked him about his replacement and only said "a good comrade will be sent".
Aftermath A formal apology from the Manitoba government was issued by Gord Mackintosh, Manitoba's Minister of Justice, on July 14, 2000.
On Sunday, September 13, her planned wedding date, authorities discovered Le's body in a cable chase inside the wall of a basement laboratory in the Amistad Street building.
The MacGregors killed many of them and forced them into a retreat in which they had to fight through John MacGregor's division which proved even more disastrous.
Investigators looked into a janitor and a mentally ill man and also considered the possibility that the murder was committed by a Halloween thrill-seeker.
The five youths were charged with first-degree murder, while 37-year-old James Havens was charged as an accessory.
In addition, several women had made complaints about Peyer before the murder, but these were dismissed because of his positive reputation within the CHP.
Witnesses described that she sunk to the ground after a bullet penetrated her left occipital skull area.
Days before the killings, an envelope containing a photograph of Tadesse and a typewritten note promising a "very juicy story" had been mailed anonymously to The Harvard Crimson.
After Önkuzu's murder, 3 left-wing students – Hikmet Parabakan, Abbas Balkır and Sinan Gündüz – were kidnapped by idealists.
Students were unable to seek shelter at "hard corners"—areas of a classroom that people could safely hide at if a gunman peered through the window of a door—because many of the classrooms in Building 12 lacked one, and furniture otherwise obstructed potential safe spaces.
A six-year-old girl, the sole survivor, was found by police in the classroom following the shooting.
Lanza fired one shot from the Glock in the hallway and killed himself with another shot from the pistol to the head.
Rios' defense tried to cast doubt by describing Valencia's personality as unreliable and arguing Valencia's numerous partners accounted for Rios not being responsible.
In addition to being the person who last saw Gardner-Quinn, Rooney was reportedly seen with cuts on his hands when he stopped at a business in Winooski several days later.
On 15 July, after a number of tip-offs, Kohli was arrested by an off-duty policeman in West Bengal's Darjeeling district (where he had been working under an alias for the Red Cross) while trying to board a bus from Kalimpong to Nepal with his new wife.
He studied at Saint Petersburg State University and was involved in a student anti-fascist and anarchist group that organized anti-fascist demonstrations and philanthropic actions.
On the day the Parkland bill was signed into law, the NRA sued, challenging the ban on gun sales to people ages 18 to 21.
McKinney and Henderson testified that they learned of Shepard's address and intended to steal from his home as well.
A gun safe was found in a bedroom and investigators found more than 1,400 rounds of ammunition and other firearms.
After this arrest, he told police that he witnessed Bobo alive with his brother at Zach's home after her abduction.
The group was created on social media with the hashtag #NeverAgain, activism inspired in part by the ground broken by the #MeToo movement and the 2018 Women's March.
He had procured over $10,000 in guns and ammunition and had been training for the attack for several months, assisted by several adults.
See also Francisc Panet Ştefan Plavăţ Filimon Sârbu References Simion Cutişteanu, "Justin Georgescu", in Anale de Istorie, Vol.
Six other members of the gang, who held Kacharava and prevented him from resisting, were charged with inciting social hatred, and were given suspended sentences.
On February 11, 2011, Timmy Brent Olsen pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was sentenced to 15 years in prison.
Campaign by the Clerys As Clery's parents, Connie and Howard, learned more about their daughter's death, they became convinced that her murder was the result of "slipshod" security on the Lehigh University campus.
According to police, he wore a tactical vest for carrying ammunition that did not include ballistic protection or armor insert panels, plus a backpack, and all-black clothing, while carrying an AR-15 style rifle and seven 30-round magazines.
Carpet fibers found in Littlejohn's home were a match to fibers discovered on the adhesive tape wrapping St.
An additional plea was made for help in identifying the driver of a vehicle left abandoned off the Hoosier Heartland Highway in Delphi, at the former Child Services office, between noon and 5 p.m.
Alexandria Kostial was a 21-year-old University of Mississippi (Ole Miss) student who was found dead near a Mississippi lake in July 2019.
Background The district of Suruç is located on the Syrian-Turkish border in the province of Şanlıurfa, approximately 10 kilometres (6.2 miles) from the Syrian town of Kobanî.
Abduction of school children 41 children, ranging from ages 9 to 14 years old, were in classes at the mosque during the killing and were detained by ENDF forces for days after at a military base in north Mogadishu.
In interviewing the Abbotts, the police learned that Elsie Abbott had found the purse earlier, but said she did not connect it with the case.
In 1993, author Dominick Dunne, father of murdered actress Dominique Dunne, published A Season in Purgatory, a fictional story closely resembling the Moxley case.
Murder During the night of her disappearance, Moore and a friend had driven into New York City for a night of clubbing and drinking.
Legal proceedings Ríos went to trial twice for these charges, first in 2009 and again in 2014, as his lengthy legal processes focused on whether he was capable of understanding his actions.
Human rights lawyer Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa has described the charges pressed by the police as "an insult to Nigerians and to the parents of the deceased".
In 1941, Georgescu enrolled in the Faculty of Letters of the University of Bucharest, and in spring 1942 he was elected a member in the leadership of the university's UTC cell.
By April 1998, when she was at Columbine High School, five of her closest friends had distanced themselves from her because of her increasing commitment to her faith.
On 13 July, a night march was summoned in honor of those killed during the protests, including Vallenilla, marching to the places where the demonstrators died.
After receiving phone calls between Davidson and Boyd, they asked Boyd for information regarding Davidson's whereabouts.
However, the firefighters not only removed him from the school but took him to their station where they shaved his head, beat him, forced him to carry heavy bags of cement, stripped him naked, poured cement on him and finally put cement in his mouth and forced him to swallow it.
We will do everything in our power to assist and support the healing and recovery of Newtown." The day after the shootings, Lanza's father released a statement: Our hearts go out to the families and friends who lost loved ones and to all those who were injured.
In both trials, psychiatrists found Ríos to be legally insane, arguing that he suffered from schizophrenia and delusions fuelled by his drug addiction.
The final report into the shooting concluded that the sequence of events in Rooms 8 and 10 was "indeterminate".
Another witness, David Kill, testified that he also saw Busken's car, driven by a male driver but without passengers, and after Kill tailed the car from behind, the male driver parked the car in front of him at Westminster Drive before he departed the scene.
Iftikhar and Farzana, who was by then heavily pregnant, had already moved in together when Anderson arrived.
The family moved from Plattsburgh, New York, to Littleton, Colorado, in July 1993, when his father retired from military service.
The two perpetrators, Javier Bolden and Bryan Barnes, aged 19 and 20 at the time of the shooting, were arrested in connection with the murders.
I enjoy dragging people along." She went on to say: "...tell me you don't enjoy these gullible humans.
In 2023, investigators partnered with Othram and students from Russell Sage College to conduct genealogical analysis.
Beckham confirmed to police that the lights had been flickering on and off while he was present at the home.
Administrators at Virginia Tech were criticized by the Virginia Tech Review Panel, a state-appointed panel tasked with investigating the incident, for failing to take action that might have decreased the number of casualties.
On the site, Harris began a blog, which included details of mischief and vandalism, such as lighting fireworks with Klebold and others.
Aftermath Legal proceedings Bryan Barnes pleaded guilty to two counts of murder on February 25, 2014, and was immediately sentenced to life in prison without possibility of parole.
Under Colorado state law at the time, the maximum a family could receive in a lawsuit against a government agency was $600,000 (equivalent to $1,160,000 in 2025).
Ramos reportedly opened fire at the group from a closet in the room before officials returned fire and killed him.
In addition, victim Scott Beigel's family started a memorial fund in his name with the goal of funding summer camp tuition for students traumatized by school shootings, a passion of Beigel.
On May 14, 2021, Pan was apprehended in Montgomery, Alabama, where he was living at a boarding house under the false name "Henry Choi".
At approximately 2 a.m., she was found passed out on a neighbor's lawn, and two students began to help her walk to her dorm room.
The Wassermans moved to a different neighborhood in 1974 and Laurie would attend a different high school for her senior year.
He also admitted to violently assaulting Bolton in the face, and this led to the severe facial injuries and Bolton's death from inhaling her own blood.
The two men, 26-year-old Jack Ronald Jones and 17-year-old Jerry Lee Beatty, kidnapped Stephanie and took her to an abandoned shack in Oakville, St.
Commentary In antiquity and the middle ages In the ancient Greek treatise Economics, customarily attributed to Aristotle but commonly considered a work of one of his students, rising early is promoted.
Some animals may show a combination of these signs, while others may only be observed demonstrating one of the many reported.
The Love Bucket Challenge, started by Kerala newspaper Malayala Manorama encourages people to fill a bucket with items to donate to orphanages.
Lytico-bodig, postencephalitis, and Alzheimer's could possibly be the same disease taking three different forms.
Shearer attributes this "inner lucidity" to the buddhi (intellect, literally "wakefulness") of Sankhya philosophy.
The polyopic images occur monocular bilaterally (one eye open on both sides) and binocularly (both eyes open), differentiating it from ocular diplopia or polyopia.
Such somnolence is one of several sickness behaviors or reactions to infection that some theorize evolved to promote recovery by conserving energy while the body fights the infection using fever and other means.
Similarly, Guttmann and Dopart (2011) found that when a subject wearing earplugs yawns, the air moving between the subject's ear and the environment causes a breeze to be heard.
Therefore, the role of sleep would be to periodically shut down sensory input to allow the brain to form memories.
In other tumors CD10 expression might be one of the characteristics of müllerian system-derived neoplastic mesenchymal cells.
September 2012 - While interviewing Sweeny Murti on his radio show, Mike Francesa was spotted sleeping while on duty.
Astronauts have reported that periods of high-intensity workload can result in mental and physical fatigue.
Four of the five trials demonstrated a statistically significant superiority to placebo as measured by the Montgomery–Åsberg Depression Rating Scale.
Many winners, including Rick Sutcliffe, Barry Larkin, Mark McGwire, Todd Stottlemyre and Derek Jeter, worked with children in need.
In its February 2012 issue, MAD Magazine parodied the book in "Stay The Fuck Awake", a reference to reports of air traffic controllers sleeping on the job.
The sleep neurons in the preoptic area receive inhibitory inputs from some of the same regions they inhibit, including the tubermammillary nucleus, raphe nuclei, and locus coeruleus.
As the disease progresses, the person becomes stuck in a state of pre-sleep limbo, or hypnagogia, which is the state just before sleep in healthy individuals.
Prevalence A 2007 survey of over 55,000 people found that chronotypes tend to follow a normal distribution, with extreme morning and evening types on the far ends.
Astrocytes In an animal model, manipulating glial precursor cells produced astrocytes that repaired Parkinson's multiple types of neurological damage.
Then in January 2004, the CFIA "announced that it would enhance its BSE surveillance testing to at least 8,000 cattle during the first year and to 30,000 per year in subsequent years to calculate the prevalence of BSE in Canadian adult cattle.
Precipitating factors include sleep deprivation, use of hypnotics or tranquilisers before bedtime, and sudden awakening from sleep (e.g., telephone ringing, alarm clock).
Domain III (residues 76–381 and 416–430) is homologous to a TIM barrel and is a highly conserved domain among glycoside hydrolases.
North Dakota In both May 2014 and May 2016, the Governor of North Dakota issued proclamations declaring May to be ALS Awareness Month in the state.
Her parents were separated, so Arami was left alone with a mother who had seizures that she remembers as terrifying.
Sleepmaxxing is an internet neologism referring to a set of practices, techniques, and products intended to maximize or optimize sleep quality and duration.
Elders in Asian American groups are not likely to be diagnosed with AD until later stages of disease.
She specializes in the neurophysiology of vision and acquires all the physical information there is to obtain about what goes on when we see ripe tomatoes or the sky and use terms like "red", "blue", and so on.
Immune mediation Observations have been made that there is an association between stress, sleep, and Interleukin-6 proposing a possible mechanism for sleep changes.
Frontotemporal dementia, including the behavioral variant, is a co-morbid condition associated with FOSMN.
Two major limitations include the lack of consistent anchor among subscales and the low emphasis on the nonmotor features of PD.
Early NMR-derived models of a 26-aminoacid polypeptide from amyloid beta (Aβ 10–35) show a collapsed coil structure devoid of significant secondary structure content.
In humans, two forms of presenilin and two forms of APH-1 have been identified in the genome; one of the APH homologs can also be expressed in two isoforms via alternative splicing, leading to at least six different possible gamma secretase complexes that may have tissue- or cell type specificity.
The discovery of stem cells has helped developed new theories, opening the concept of using stem cells to treat difficult diseases.
Multiple trace theory Multiple trace theory (MTT) proposes that the hippocampus remains involved in the storage and retrieval of episodic memories regardless of age.
The participants and their families agreed that they would undergo the PET scans and would have their brains autopsied after their death by pathologists.
The movements the actigraph unit undergoes are continually recorded and some units also measure light exposure.
After identifying the specific visual problem that exists, intervention can include eye exercises, work with computer programs, neurotherapy, physical activities, and academic adjustments.
A canopy bed is similar to a four poster bed, but the posts usually extend higher and are adorned or draped with cloth, sometimes completely enclosing the bed.
Camel spongiform encephalopathy (CSE), commonly known as mad camel disease, is similar to mad cow disease.
Items 1 to 4 address the frequency and content of dreams and their relationship to nocturnal movements and behavior.
Each sub-site offers interactive components that provide age-appropriate education about ALS, personal stories, and additional resources for information and coping as well as a social networking link on the teen sites.
The Nun Study participants were gathered on a volunteer basis following a presentation on the importance of donating one's brain for research purposes after death.
These false positives are relatively common: while actigraphy is good at detecting sleep patterns (sensitivity: 0.965), it has its difficulties in detecting wake periods (specificity: 0.329).
Activated caspase-1 then processes and releases the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and interleukin-18 (IL-18).
Elopement Elopement, or unattended wandering that goes out of bounds, is a special concern for caregivers and search and rescue responders.
Milnacipran should not be used during pregnancy because it may cross the placenta barrier and no clinical data exists on harmful effects in humans and animal studies.
References External links Official website Videos demonstrating product Shaky hand, stable spoon: High-tech help for essential tremor - medical review
Lying in the left lateral position is generally accepted to be ideal for managing the symptoms of GERD by reducing acid clearance time and acid exposure time.
In 2011, a novel case of CJD that was detected in an immigrant patient from Saudi Arabia and noticed by the CJDSS in the Canada Communicable Disease Report, prompted the Canadian Blood Services and Hema-Quebec to issue deferral orders for blood donors from the middle eastern country.
Microarousal, also known as micro-awakening, refers to brief, often sub-second interruptions of sleep characterized by partial cortical activation without full consciousness.
The incidence of PVE was between 44.9 cases per one million vaccinations with Bern strain used in western Europe to 2.9 cases per one million vaccinations with NYCBH strain used in the US.
Atypical parkinsonism and other Parkinson-plus syndromes are often difficult to differentiate from PD and each other.
In the event of a power interruption, older electronic digital models used to reset the time to midnight (0:00; 12:00 am) and lose alarm settings.
The Religious Orders Study follows and was inspired by earlier community-based studies such as the Nun Study, Honolulu Asia Aging Study (HAAS), and Hisayama Study.
Each is of a different form, but effectively helps the individual improve fluidity in their walking.
Specialized software for creating sleep logs is also available; a spreadsheet or database software can also be used.
They are useful for determining sleep patterns and circadian rhythms and may be worn for several weeks at a time.
After spending about a year in denial and searching for other possible diagnoses, she accepts her fate.
The designation of 3:00 am as the "devil's hour" is often attributed to a mocking inversion of the time when Jesus Christ was believed to have died, which is traditionally calculated as 3:00 pm.
The ADAS-Cog is one half of the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS), which also contains a non-cognitive subscale (ADAS-Noncog), which includes 10 tasks which assess mood and behavioural changes which may occur in Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia.
Based on classical conditioning, repeated pairing of the music with the intention of sleep can generate a conditioned response.
The primary function of these clocks is to awaken people from their night's sleep or short naps; they can sometimes be used for other reminders as well.
See also Nightcap (beverage) Short-term effects of alcohol consumption#Sleep Sleep induction#Alcohol == References ==
Cell death can be observed in the substantia nigra, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, the gigantocellular reticular nucleus, and the locus ceruleus.
The Jacquard loom, invented in 1801, was the most complex mechanical device of the early 19th century.
Some genetic variation has been reported in the Prnp gene of domestic cats but no effect on the course of disease for these variations are known.
Peak-dose L‑DOPA-induced dyskinesia has recently been suggested to be associated with cortical dysregulation of dopamine signaling.
The mechanism behind this is suspected to be shared with the general mechanism driving learning and memory consolidation during sleep.
Also, it is thought that the presenilins are involved in the cleavage of the Notch receptor, such that they either directly regulate gamma-secretase activity or themselves are protease enzymes.
At least some of the assets were acquired by ResMed in Ireland, widely known for their CPAP machines.
An agents purchase of a copy of the book Birds of Britain, Europe, is recorded as part of what was described in a financial accounting of the MKULTRA program as a continuous project on bird survey in special areas.
However, on 5 April 2021, a fan reported on Twitter that a SSL certificate had been registered for dev-eotxawxn.sleep.pokemon.co.jp.
It was found that her students were able to come up with rational solutions to their problems in their dreams.
A good diet includes high fiber foods (such as vegetables, dried peas, beans, whole grain foods, pasta, rice, and fresh fruit) in order to reduce constipation, low saturated fats and cholesterol, low sugar and salt intake, plenty of water, and limited alcohol intake.
Participants for a case-control study were recruited from twelve centers of the International REM Sleep Behavior Disorder Study Group between 2008 and 2011.
Exceptions to the FDA ban have existed for mammalian blood and blood products; gelatin; inspected, cooked meat products for humans; milk products; and products containing pork and equine (and avian) proteins.
Whereas postural sway in normal stance usually increases in patients with balance disorders arising from stroke, head injury and cerebellar ataxia it is often reduced in patients with PD.
Again, at the end of 1999, France and Germany refused to lift the embargo as recommended by the commission.
Psychological therapy and support groups Receiving psychological therapies and attending support groups can also be effective in supporting the mental health of family caregivers.
ALS Society of Ontario The ALS Society of Ontario is a non-profit organization in the Canadian province of Ontario that provides support and assistance to people diagnosed with ALS, their friends and families.
The prevalence of premarital sex in colonial America is shown by the rate of legitimate births within the first nine months of marriage; the late eighteenth century observed a remarkable increase in pre-marital pregnancies, with 30-40% of infants born within the first nine months of marriage.
The cost of measures BSE control measures have a significant cost, which is borne by both consumers and the State.
One such study in mice showed that sleep deprivation increases gene expression of Dnmt3a1 and Dnmt3a2, which are genes that code for enzymes that establish and maintain CpG methylation.
Following the 2014 Ice Bucket Challenge, the ALS Association attempted to trademark the term "ice bucket challenge".
History Initially developed at the University of Groningen in 1985 as N-0437, Aderis Pharmaceuticals acquired rotigotine and continued development toward commercialization.
In addition, music can be combined with relaxation techniques such as breathing exercises and progressive muscle relaxation.
The clinical implications of more balanced elevations of serotonin and norepinephrine are unclear, but may include improved effectiveness, though also increased side effects.
Ingress Philippines attempted to start the challenge in the Philippines on Google+ private post It was forwarded to other social network sites on September 3, 2014, as a public post and accepted by Ingress Enlightened Philippines community on the same day.
While these advancements were ongoing, Medtronic published the architecture of an implantable aDBS device for application in humans.
Some methods used in the ADAS-Cog are more reliable than others, such as naming and memory item word recall.
Throughout the provinces, public awareness and fundraising campaigns are carried out, such as golf tournaments and the WALK for ALS, which takes place in more than 78 communities across the nation.
Toddlers after the age of 18 months can be exposed to high-quality programming such as Sesame Street or PBS that provide educational television.
A 2014 paper described the Fox Trial Finder as being part of a broader trend for researchers to support patient communities in organizing themselves to participate in trials.
Between 2014 and 2016 it was the second leading cause of death and second leading cause of disease burden for older people (aged 75 and over).
CIO is any sleep-training method which allows a baby to cry for a specified period before the parent will offer comfort.
Signaling peptides Neprilysin is also associated with other biochemical processes, and is particularly highly expressed in kidney and lung tissues.
Domain II (residues 30–75 and 431–497) consists of two β-sheets that resemble an immunoglobulin fold.
Experiments revealed that a six-hour-long general anesthesia significantly delayed the start of the foraging behaviour of honeybees if induced during daytime, but not if induced during nighttime.
It is also challenging to find any patients with GSS, as the disease tends to be underreported, due to its clinical similarity to other diseases, and has been found in only a few countries.
Visual information continues to be processed in the posterior parietal cortex, also known as the dorsal stream, where the representation of an object’s shape is formed using motion-based cues.
Recent research has shown that the interaction of the gamma secretase complex with the γ-secretase activating protein facilitates the gamma cleavage of amyloid precursor protein into β-amyloid.
For example, zebrafish, tilapia, tench, brown bullhead, and swell shark become motionless and unresponsive at night (or by day, in the case of the swell shark); Spanish hogfish and blue-headed wrasse can even be lifted by hand all the way to the surface without evoking a response.
The phrase has also been used to describe an alert someone may receive regarding the consequences of negative circumstances or dangerous behavior.
Neuroscientists at MultiPark collaborate with researchers from chemistry, nanotechnology, physics and computer science.
The validity of the questionnaire was studied by researchers and they have observed it to perform with high sensitivity and reasonable specificity in the diagnosis of RBD.
Resorts in Sweden promote the country's long cool winter nights and culture as ideal for a sleep vacation.
Use RBDSQ has the potential to be useful as a screening instrument for neurodegenerative disorder, such as the α-synucleinopathies, Parkinson's disease or multiple system atrophy which may enable early diagnosis and also recruitment of people with RBD necessary for research studies.
The term now has a widespread colloquial and idiomatic usage that is associated with human physiology and behaviour, as well as superstitious phenomena such as luck.
Depending on the ethnic population, certain diseases are more prevalent than others which is another factor that can determine the ethnic variation observed in PD.
Pharmacological management Micrographia may worsen when a PD patient is undermedicated and when the medication is wearing off.
In 2010, the CJDSS was evaluated, as part of the evaluation of the Prion Diseases Program of which it forms part.
Evidence has shown that during the sleep-wake cycle, sleep-promoting neurons and the arousal-promoting neurons have reciprocal discharges, and that during NREM sleep, GABA receptors increase in the arousal-promoting neurons.
The Center was opened in addition to the continual operation of three research laboratories and the Lois Insolia ALS Clinic.
The courtship practice would ensure that there would be witnesses to certify any intimacy that took place.
It has also been used as a broad-spectrum insecticide, but its use as an insecticide has been banned in many countries.
For example, a study of adults with depression found that higher eveningness was associated with more side effects and lower efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors.
Glycosylation, for instance, is a major PTM that can influence protein folding, stability, and interactions with other proteins.
In early 2018, a patient group called the "Terminally Persistent" coalition criticized the ALS Association for not spending the $115 million earned from the Ice Bucket Challenge more readily on research.
Bolivian rapes In a Mennonite community in Bolivia, eight men were convicted of raping 130 women in Manitoba Colony over a four-year period from 2005 to 2009, by spraying "a chemical used to anesthetize cows" through the victims' open bedroom windows.
Men can wake up during a wet dream, or sleep through it, but for women, some researchers have added the requirement that they should awaken during the orgasm, and perceive that the female should have an orgasm for it to count as a wet dream.
Having difficulty keeping up with the payments, Carl continued insisting on getting her into a more affordable facility.
It is closely connected to the idea that everything is intelligible or can be explained in reference to its sufficient reason.
In the later stages of EOAD, persons with EOAD forget how to perform simple tasks such as brushing their hair and require full-time care.
The electrode is connected to a battery pack implanted under the collarbone via a subcutaneous wire.
Whereas lower motor neuron signs is observed in all cases of FOSMN, upper motor neuron associated weakness, which presents as brisk reflexes sometimes with clonus and a positive Babinski Sign, is also seen but is less common.
In 2010, a study was published detailing the progression of Parkinson's-like symptoms in mice following chronic intragastric ingestion of low doses of rotenone.
Mechanism of adaptation To adapt to the stimulation parameters, adaptive DBS (aDBS) employs the local field potential (LFP) of the target structure recorded through the implanted electrodes that deliver stimulation.
The targeting of this mutation has been suggested as a strategy for treatment, or possibly as a cure for the disease.
Prize4Life is a non-profit organization dedicated to the discovery of treatments and a cure for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
PICALM (phosphatidylinositol binding clathrin assembly protein) regulates the formation of vesicles in clathrin-mediated endocytosis.
His symptoms had begun 18 months before, starting with a strange immobility and a loss of initiative and spontaneity; he found he had to make a huge effort to walk, to stand, and to make the least movement—his body was disobedient.
This association indicates that APH1B could serve as a valuable indicator of disease progression, providing insights into the underlying pathological mechanisms of AD.
The other proteins in the complex are PSEN1 (presenilin-1), which is the catalytically active component of the complex, APH-1 (anterior pharynx-defective 1), and PEN-2 (presenilin enhancer 2).
Features SleepBot included two main features: "sleep debt estimation" and "smart alarms." SleepBot's "sleep debt estimation" claimed to estimate how much sleep debt the user has incurred.
As of 2014, the CJDSS conducted "prospective national surveillance for all types of human prion disease in Canada.
Amphibians have periods of inactivity but show high vigilance (receptivity to potentially threatening stimuli) in this state.
Item 6 consists of four subitems assessing nocturnal motor behavior more specifically, e.g., questions about nocturnal vocalization, sudden limb movements, complex movements, or bedding items that fell down.
Some aspects of data management were temporarily settled in 2016; as of 2017 the litigation was ongoing.
Scrapie prions have been found in the Peyer's patches of naturally infected asymptomatic lambs as young as four months of age.
APH-1, which is required for proteolytic activity, binds to the complex via a conserved alpha helix interaction motif and aids in initiating assembly of premature components.
Jon Falcone of Drowned in Sound gave the album a very positive review, stating, "Sleep implores you for companionship and bleeds into itself as it bleeds into the listener.
Sleep efficiency plays a big role in insomnia research, since it shows the amount of time people are in bed for versus how much sleep they get.
Night courting, bundling, or festerln was organized in areas bordering the North Sea as well as the Alps and Baltic region.
In such environments it is common for employers to provide makeshift sleeping materials for employees, such as a couch and/or inflatable mattress and blankets.
In people with Alzheimer's disease, pathological forms of tau proteins develop inside neurons in the brain, creating neurofibrillary tangles.
Dement advises against doing these evaluations at night when sleep onset latency can naturally be lower, particularly in older people.
The most famous of these dream stories was Jacob's dream of a ladder that stretches from Earth to Heaven.
An anti-α-synuclein drug, or an α-synuclein inhibitor, is a drug which blocks or inhibits α-synuclein.
A follow-up study compared the effectiveness of the MIND diet to that of the Mediterranean and DASH diets within the same study population.
It was announced on May 28, 2019, by Tsunekazu Ishihara, CEO of the Pokémon Company, during a press conference held in Tokyo as well as on the company's official Twitter page.
Neurologists also use it in clinical practice to follow the progression of their patients' symptoms in a more objective manner.
Sleeping pills Hypnotics, sometimes referred to as sleeping pills, may be prescribed by a physician, but their long-term efficacy is poor and they have numerous adverse effects including daytime drowsiness, accidents, memory disorders and withdrawal symptoms.
Limiting daytime naps, particularly in the afternoon, and incorporating regular physical activity are also recommended.
Given the relationship between the involvement of the thalamus in regulating sleep and alertness, a causal relationship can be drawn and is often mentioned as the cause of insomnia.
The concept is under significant research with related concepts in digital media use and mental health.
Dopaminergic medications are the most commonly used form of treatment to attempt to replace the lack of dopamine in Parkinson’s patients.
Some hotels offer artificial-intelligence assisted beds that can be paired with a guest's phone or distraction-free rooms that include no television or artwork.
Scientific American Frontiers (PBS) has reported on Stampi's 49-day experiment where a young man napped for a total of three hours per day.
Research A 2013 study finds that the peculiar protease-resistant PrP (PrPres) originally found in VPSPr is also detectable in the brain of patients with a genetic CJD linked to PrP Valine (V) to isoleucine (I) mutation at residue 180 (PrPV180I).
Among the Center's contributions to ALS research have been the 1993 co-discovery of the first genetic mutation linked to cause ALS, SOD1, as well as FUS in 2009 and others linked to familial ALS.
Enrollment of participants ADNI enrolls participants between the ages of 55 and 90 who are recruited at 57 sites in the US and Canada.
It is metabolized in the liver by the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP3A4, thereby making the medication susceptible to grapefruit-drug interactions.
The data on phase I trial were first presented at the Alzheimer's Association International conference in 2012.
Nicastrin has also been identified as a regulator of neprilysin, an enzyme involved in the degradation of amyloid beta fragment.
The physiological purpose of BACE's cleavage of APP and other transmembrane proteins is unknown: some studies observed that BACE1 is involved in myelination (it is co-express with neuregulin 1 type III).
Education Public education NSF educates the public about sleep health in content that appears through online, print and broadcast media.
However, these PPA subtypes differ from similar aphasias, as these subtypes do not occur acutely following trauma to the brain, such as following a stroke, due to differing functional and structural neuroanatomical patterns of involvement and the progressive nature of the disease.
Go the Fuck to Sleep is a satirical book written by American author Adam Mansbach and illustrated by Ricardo Cortés.
Furthermore, the incidence of skin cancer was significantly higher in the treatment group than the placebo group.
It was only when a registry was set up to consolidate all the data was it revealed that most patients did not benefit from the procedure to any significant extent.
This is a gene enzyme replacement therapy that can be used to increase the efficacy of the pharmacological L-dopa therapy by using AAV vectors.
References External links Dementia Village 'De Hogeweyk' in Weesp, architectural designs and plans De Hogeweyk, Amsterdam, Weesp – NL CNN's World's Untold Stories: "Dementia Village", Sanjay Gupta (2013)
A small actigraph unit, also called an actimetry sensor, is worn for a week or more to measure gross motor activity.
Initial single-center studies demonstrated the potential for florbetaben PET imaging to discriminate between AD patients and non-AD patients or healthy volunteers.
References Further reading Les Turner ALS Foundation honors Wendy Abrams External links Website Les Turner ALS Research and Patient Center at Northwestern Medicine
It provided its report in October 2000, and the report was published in full by Nick Brown, the secretary for agriculture at the time.
Unlike microsleep, however, these brief periods of local sleep occur while the animal is still entirely conscious and functioning, although abilities associated with the specific brain region in local sleep tend to decline substantially.
History The 23- and 28-day rhythms used by biorhythmists were first devised in the late 19th century by Wilhelm Fliess, a Berlin physician and friend of Sigmund Freud.
Namesake In 2004, radio stations and local law-enforcement agencies in the Atlanta area broadcast information about the 67-year-old Mattie Moore, an Alzheimer's patient who had wandered from her home that April.
Persons receiving excessive Botox treatments and thus losing disproportionate facial expression features may be incorrectly identified as suffering from hypomimia.
The reason for the deaths of these cells is a topic of current research, with some theories suggesting a contribution of oxidative stress due to free radicals and inflammation.
The scan principle is based on use of the radiopharmaceutical Ioflupane (123I) which binds to dopamine transporters (DaT).
Treatments Parkinson-plus syndromes are usually more rapidly progressive and less likely to respond to antiparkinsonian medication than PD.
Celebrity involvement The following people and groups have been involved with Project ALS: Julianna Margulies Anne Meara Caroline Rhea Debora Spar Thomas Jessel Northport High School Donna Hanover Edie Falco Ben Stiller References External links Project ALS
Project ALS changed that approach by requiring that researchers and doctors work together, share data openly, and meet research milestones.
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is a multisite study that aims to improve clinical trials for the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
The clinical trials that had been conducted were in people with very early Alzheimer's disease and excluded people who ate recommended amounts of food that included fish oil.
There are two versions of KSS: one with labels on every point and one with labels only on alternate points; studies have found the two versions yield essentially the same results.
For several years attention had been fixed on the military potentialities of the psychochemicals of various types.
Other research interests involve identifying biomarkers to track the progression of prion disease in living people.
Clinical significance Neurons of the nucleus basalis are particularly vulnerable in age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and several others.
Interactions Amyloid precursor protein has been shown to interact with: APP interacts with reelin, a protein implicated in a number of brain disorders, including Alzheimer's disease.
Advocacy During this month, the ALS Association sponsors the National ALS Advocacy Day and Public Policy Conference and leads a delegation of people with ALS, their caregivers and other advocates to Capitol Hill to urge legislators to support measures to help find treatments and a cure.
The method combines amplification with a novel technology called surround optical fiber immunoassay and some specific antibodies against PrPSc.
The Fast Track designation is granted to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs that address unmet medical needs in serious conditions.
It is formulated as a once-daily transdermal patch which provides a slow and constant supply of the drug over the course of 24 hours.
See also Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSEs) References Caroline Parkinson (13 August 2010).
Often such devices do not produce actual white noise, which has a harsh sound, but pink noise, whose power rolls off at higher frequencies, or other colors of noise.
Pharmacology Pharmacodynamics KW-6356 is a selective A2A adenosine antagonist or inverse agonist displaying insurmountable antagonism of this adenosine subtype.
Their perspectives can influence the consideration of assisted dying, especially when the patient's wishes are documented in advance directives.
Rodger's parents later said they were devastated by the news and initially believed their son was among the victims.
It became known as the Limehouse Declaration as it was made near David Owen's London home in Limehouse.
It is certain that the treatise was intended to set the aesthetic standard for the writing he wished to advocate.
Khomeini's 8-article command (Persian: فرمان هشت ماده‌ای خمینی), is an issued 8-article command by Iran's Supreme leader, Seyyed Ruhollah Khomeini; addressing to Judicial system of Iran and executive organizations of the country, on 15 December 1982—in order to make the laws based on Islam's orders.
This reappropriation, especially popular among people of color, was associated with radical politics and rejection of liberal conservatism in the LGBT community.
The text inspires a call to action for women to critique the feminist movement in the 20th century, while designing an agenda to secure women's identity within the changing spheres of society.
The element which sparked the revolution was the infringement of the terms, meaning that the declaration also declared Duke Joseph of Brabant deposed from his position.
The Manifesto of Manzanares (Spanish: Manifiesto de Manzanares) was issued 7 July 1854 in Manzanares, Spain.
Because of Random House lawyers, attribution for the quotes is given in a fine print appendix at the end of the book, but with Shields's encouragement to cut those pages from the book so as to preserve the book's intended disorienting effect.
He was particularly well versed in Philosophy studies and was able to collaborate with specialized journals such as La Cultura, the Rivista di filosofia and Benedetto Croce, who favored the publication in 1912 of his first committed work, La filosofia contemporanea.
When the government's efforts to bring in temperance reform and Welsh disestablishment also failed, Rosebery's disunited cabinet were almost anxious for an excuse to resign.
However, the Federation was beset with problems with the European branches receiving a lack of public interest due to the preoccupation with the threat of war.
A pledge to overthrow the Emperor system described as a combination of the Emperor and his court, the military and the administrative bureaucrats, the nobility, the absentee landlords, and the monopoly capitalists and to establish a People's Democracy.
This is the first of Bolívar's public documents, which due to his later fame as the "Liberator of five nations," have become quite well known.
Donnall Thomas (Medicine, 1990) James Dewey Watson (Medicine, 1962) Past AHA presidents Edd Doerr Michael W.
Guido De Ruggiero (Naples, 23 March 1888 – Rome, 29 December 1948) was an Italian historian of philosophy, university professor, and politician.
In order not to lose his university professorship, he took the oath of allegiance to fascism in 1931, but this did not prevent him from being dismissed from teaching a few years later (1942) and then arrested.
Off-modern, a word invented by Svetlana Boym, is defined as a detour into the unexplored potentials of the modern project.
Secure Future., the 2024 Conservative Party manifesto For a Fair Deal, the 2024 Liberal Democrats manifesto Our Contract with You, the 2024 Reform UK manifesto/Contract References External links Change.
This action is attained by casting out traditional roles and demolishing the distinction between the two sexes.
The liberals were never pleased with this, and they tried with all their might to call ever greater numbers of Italians to public life; and this was the main origin of some of their most disputed acts, such as the granting of universal suffrage.
It provided a theoretical and strategic framework for the Party’s involvement in the anti-apartheid movement and became influential in shaping the direction of the broader Congress Alliance and ANC strategies during the struggle for liberation.
Through this statement, we deny that the postmodern ideologies derived from intersectionality, radical feminism, and critical race theory are consistent with biblical teaching.
Due to its racist content and the historical effect of Nazism upon Europe during World War II and the Holocaust, it is considered a highly controversial book.
In 1983 and 1987, the party went to the polls under the banner of the "Alliance", as a result of the pact between the Liberals and the Social Democratic Party, the latter of which formed as a breakaway from Labour in 1981.
The manifesto contains details about the discrimination against the Black population in the educational system, the army, the mass media and the judicial system.
Background In the midst of 2017–2018 Iranian protests, 15 Iranian intellectuals published an open letter called for a referendum.
Furious inhabitants having treacherously fallen upon them in their quarters, our troops with aching hearts were obliged to fire a part of the town as a punishment.
Thus far, RM70 million has already been allocated for various micro-credit schemes in the Pakatan Rakyat states.
See also Hacker ethic Timeline of computer security hacker history References External links "The Hacker's Manifesto" at Phrack Magazine
The signatories express their intention to be more committed to spreading Christianity throughout the world.
According to Reform UK, this money would be raised from the scrapping of net zero subsidies, the ending of payments of interest on quantitive easing reserves to banks, the halving of foreign aid, cuts to working age benefits and other public spending reductions.
Many of the accused individuals were subject to alleged torture during interrogation by the Mauritanian police.
Signing Joffe would not settle the question of Outer Mongolia or the Chinese Far Eastern Railway but was successful in establishing a political relations with Sun Yat-sen.
The title "A Humanist Manifesto"—rather than "The Humanist Manifesto"—was intentional, predictive of later manifestos to follow, as indeed has been the case.
The area which this manifesto considered and highlighted is that of the area which the Russian Army controlled within the borders of Ukraine after the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Lastly, the French refused to take the Brunswick Manifesto seriously in any respect, believing it to be inauthentic.
Hence, justifying through historical precedents and invoking the juristic principles to avoid harm; they argued for separating temporal powers from the current tyrannical and false Caliphates.
When physical visits are not possible, there must be sufficient outreach services available to access these materials otherwise.
Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova stated that measures will be taken to put the signatories on the international wanted list for the purpose of their arrest and extradition to Ukraine.
One of the oft-quoted lines that comes from the Manifesto is, "No deity will save us; we must save ourselves." The Humanist Manifesto II first appeared in The Humanist's September/October 1973 edition, when Paul Kurtz and Edwin H.
In popular culture The article is quoted several times in the 1995 movie Hackers, although in the movie it is being read from an issue of the hacker magazine 2600, not the historically accurate Phrack.
The Manifesto's principal sphere of influence, as measured by the locations where editions were published, was in the "central belt of Europe", from Russia in the east to France in the west.
Packer, a British-born Canadian Christian theologian in the low church Anglican and Reformed traditions.
If the original diagnosis had been upheld by the court, Breivik could not have been sentenced to a prison term; the prosecution could instead have requested that he be detained in a psychiatric hospital.
The document was released in the wake of increasing state repression following the Sharpeville massacre of 1960 and the banning of key liberation organisations such as the African National Congress (ANC) and Pan Africanist Congress (PAC).
Notable Bloc 8406 members Roman Catholic priest Nguyen Van Ly was sentenced to eight years in prison on March 30, 2007, for his support of the group's manifesto.
The Manifesto helped contribute to a debate on American control of the Canadian economy and particularly the extent of US ownership of Canadian business and resources and the emergence in Canada of a branch plant economy.
Maréchal was a radical atheist and vehement critic of Christianity, as evidenced in his parody of the Bible, Livre échappé du déluge (1784).
Lawyer and labor activist Tran Quoc Hien was accused of being a part of Bloc 8406 in his 2007 trial that led to a five-year prison sentence for "endangering state security".
Путь выхода России из первой мировой войны и анатомия конфликта между Совнаркомом РСФСР и правительством Украинской Центральной рады М.
Where there was a case for change, he promised "the correction of proved abuses and the redress of real grievances".
Manifesto theory The Modernist Manifesto is considered to be a public declaration of artistic convictions.
For a Fair Deal is a political manifesto published by the Liberal Democrats under the leadership of Ed Davey, ahead of the 2024 general election.
As its foundation for support, the letter refers to the "criteria of just war theory as developed by Christian theologians in the late fourth and early fifth centuries A.D." The letter was written by Richard D.
It has also been excerpted in several feminist anthologies, including Sisterhood Is Powerful (1970), a collection of radical feminist writing edited by Robin Morgan.
During the turmoil, the last Ming emperor Zhu Youjian hanged himself on a tree in the imperial garden outside the Forbidden City.
On 24 October 1789, Hendrik van der Noot had already proclaimed the independence of the Duchy of Brabant by the Manifesto of the People of Brabant, abjuring Joseph II as the duke of Brabant.
At the time the 1943 speech was made, the Second World War was raging and the threat of German invasion (Operation Green) or British re-occupation (Plan W) was very real.
The Statement on Social Justice and the Gospel, also known as the Dallas Statement, is an evangelical Christian statement of faith addressing the perceived trend that some prominent evangelicals tend to mix the Christian Gospel with the social gospel.
The opening paragraph of the declaration indicates that it was triggered by decisions taken at the Labour Party conference in January 1981.
The manifesto asserted that the Soviet system was not suitable for China and announced in general terms the willingness of Soviet to co-operate with the KMT in its struggle to unify China.
The Futurist Painting: Technical Manifesto (1910) by Umberto Boccioni (1882-1916) was the first exposition of the theoretical underpinnings of Italian Futurist painting.
The Seventy Years Declaration was presented to Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament, on 14 March 2012.
The Conservatives left government after about eighteen years, following victories in 1979, 1983, 1987, and 1992; the first three under the leadership of Margaret Thatcher and the last under John Major.
Tom Ascol was given the responsibility to write the original draft, which upon revision was signed first by the original summit attendees also including James White, John MacArthur, Voddie Baucham, and others.
Cuba is embarking upon this war with full certainty, of the capacity and ability of the Cuban people, to save the patria and to obtain their liberty and govern its independence.
Background In October 1789, the leader of the "Statists", Henri Van der Noot and the general Jean-André van der Meersch led a small army of patriots from the Dutch Republic where they had been in exile into the Duchy of Brabant, then under Austrian rule.
Dreyer outlines the other concerns of the group as they drafted the requested document and that "'charter' became an 'invitation' (long discussion), which became a 'manifesto' (in a flash of recognition)".
On December 18, 1943, those who were still free among the old guard of the National Party outlawed by the French administration in 1937—whose previous leaders such as Allal al-Fassi, Muhammad Hassan el-Wazzani, et al.
To this end, it seems first of all to be a necessity that all those who have a place in their hearts for European culture and civilization, in other words, those who can be called in Goethe's prescient words "good Europeans," come together.
In the off-modern tradition, reflection and longing, estrangement and affection go together" (Boym, The Future of Nostalgia, 2001, pp.
Atlanta University's president Rufus Clement suggested that they write a "bill of particulars" laying out their concerns and what they wanted to achieve.
The Memorandum of Tübingen (German:Tübinger Memorandum) was a memorandum dealing with West German foreign policy, written by eight prominent German Protestant academics and scientists.
It has been said by commentators that from the publication of this manifesto, "modern French Canada began", while CBC calls it "one of the most important and controversial artistic and social documents in modern Quebec society".
the difference between him and between his predecessors among the Fuqaha of the Khilafah, such as al-Mawardi, al-Ghazali, Ibn Taymiyyah or Ibn al-Qayyim al-Jawzi is that these discussed an extant imamah: an imamah of reality...
It states its aims as the "demilitarization and denazification of Ukraine." The address deliberately evades the word "war", which is outlawed in Russia in this context by the fake news laws.
In addition to Home Rule, the policies, which were crowded onto the omnibus, may be divided into three main areas: rural, religious and electoral reform.
Even when development is contracted to such third parties, governments retain their obligation to protect human rights.
Proposed curricula include indigenous histories of science, sociology, architecture, and music, among many other subjects.
'The Creed'), is a 12th-century book containing the teachings of Ibn Tumart, self-proclaimed mahdi and founder of the Almohad Caliphate.
They argued: It seems not just a good thing, but a dire necessity, that educated men of all nations direct their influence in such a way that the terms of the peace did not become the wellspring of future wars—uncertain though the outcome of the war may now still seem.
History Ma'alim fi al-Tariq marked the culmination of Qutb's evolution from modernist author and critic, to Islamist activist and writer, and finally to Islamist revolutionary and theoretician.
Implementation The Montreal borough of Ville-Marie was the first elected body in the world to officially adopt the Declaration in on August 1, 2006, whilst the New Democratic Party became the first political party to do so, by a unanimous vote of its federal convention on September 10, 2006.
In retaliation, a year later, a Ming punitive force of about 100,000 men, which included Korean and Yehe troops, approached Nurhaci's Manchus along four different routes.
It also states that collections should be adapted to the different needs of communities in both rural and urban areas.
Paulsson, the group’s only non-architect, was director of the Swedish Arts and Crafts Society (Svenska Slöjdföreningen).
Presented as a response to the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism initiated by the Czech government in 2008 to condemn communism as totalitarian and criminal, it explicitly rejects the idea that the regimes of Joseph Stalin and Adolf Hitler are morally equivalent, i.e.
Legacy The Ten-Point Program formed the basis for the Black Panther Party and was seen as the governing document that defined the actions of the Party.
See also Antidisestablishmentarianism Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 High Church High Tory Notes Further reading Adelman, Paul.
And [had] a great deal of empathy for my friends around the nation that were also in the same situation.
On August 24, 1963, hearing held by the Cultural Manifesto endorsement Goenawan chairperson and secretary Bokor Hutasuhut .
Details On March 1, 2024, Milei announced the Pact during the opening of the 142° ordinary session of the National Congress.
Drafted by Antonio Cánovas del Castillo and signed by General Leopoldo O'Donnell, it called for political reforms and a constituent Cortes to bring about an authentic "liberal regeneration".
A large part of the GNU Manifesto is focused on rebutting possible objections to GNU Project's goals.
Darlington's analysis, described by the International Journal of Social History as delivering "an informative representation of syndicalism that highlights its essential features", places the pamphlet within a comparative framework examining syndicalist movements across six countries.
The program is made in the name of Paris, not the working classes or revolution, and primarily demands a republican government and secondly, Commune autonomy extended to all of France, giving local bodies control over administration, economics, education, and security.
Tzara counters Ball's earlier manifesto and states that all definitions of "Dada" were to be dismissed immediately.
Havel echoed Patočka's sentiment that no matter what the situation, individuals carry responsibility with them.
Dryzek, Steven Friedman, John Keane, Claudia Koonz, Steven Levitsky, Arend Lijphart, Nancy MacLean, Jane Mansbridge, Achille Mbembe, Pippa Norris, Timothy Snyder, Jason Stanley, Nadia Urbinati.
Succession only works with the complete national sovereignty of a people and fully removed for the structure created to oppress the Indigenous / Xicano.
Sequel In 1980, Barth wrote a follow-up essay, "The Literature of Replenishment" in order to clarify the earlier essay.
Features Although the structure of a manifesto is free, there are frequent characteristics that identify it: dissertation structure; tone of conclamation; presence of vocatives; the language can vary, depending on a few factors: Who is the manifesto aimed at?
References Further reading External links The full text of the Declaration to the French People (in French) at Wikisource
Rather, it was "a product of a particular time – from 1948 to 1950 – that witnessed the victory of the CCP and the establishment of the PRC".
In this, the RVC seeks to establish themselves as a seeming vanguard of national purity, the last remaining "true" ethnic Russians fighting for their conception of national liberation.
Those institutions which are fattened by our brothers to provide employment and political pork barrels for the gringo will do so only as acts of liberation and for La Causa.
Constitutional and political reforms Proposals include directly elected executive, fully proportional parliament, MPs barred from minister roles, non-partisan locals, and improved provinces—via a 3-month discussion paper.
According to the text of the book itself, it was compiled by a scribe to whom Abd al-Mu'min dictated his notes from Ibn Tumart's teachings.
Thus, Mussolini increasingly decided to harmonize Italian Fascism with German Nazism by introducing anti-Semitic laws in Italy as evidence of his good faith towards Hitler.
See also Anti-art Art manifesto References External links In Praise of Pinot Gallizio by Michèle Bernstein
The Green New Deal The Leap was also involved in organizing around the Green New Deal, a proposed economic stimulus program to address the climate crisis alongside inequality, in both the United States and Canada.
In some areas, if someone gets a cold, they inevitably contaminate hundreds of other people and the majority die." Forced abortion The Panchen Lama ended his report with accusations of forced abortions starting in 1955 in Kham and Amdo.
Crowley's involvement with Ordo Templi Orientis, a fraternal organization dedicated to the study and practice of esotericism and Thelema, was instrumental in the formulation of Liber OZ.
The Linz Program of 1882 was a political platform that called for the complete Germanization of the Austrian state.
"Manifesto of the Left Wing Section of the Socialist Party: As Modified by Local Cuyahoga County, Socialist Party," The Ohio Socialist, Feb.
Nevertheless, much of the unbridled optimism of the first remained, with hopes stated that war would become obsolete and poverty would be eliminated.
Strictly speaking, we are thus forced to speak about the Wirklichkeit only in parables and analogies.
The Financial Modelers' Manifesto was a proposal for more responsibility in risk management and quantitative finance written by financial engineers Emanuel Derman and Paul Wilmott.
Publication An Appeal for Human Rights was printed as a full-page paid advertisement in The Atlanta Constitution on March 9, 1960.
Promotion Delegates of Vox travelled throughout Latin America to promote and obtain signatures for the manifesto, meeting with politicians in Ecuador, Mexico, and Peru.
Franz Josef Strauss, appointed Federal Minister of Nuclear Energy in 1955, and Defence Minister in 1956, was charged with building up the West German defence forces.
Bracher characterizes the points as being "phrased like slogans; they lent themselves to the concise sensational dissemination of the 'anti' position on which the party thrived.
Failure to implement the Newcastle Programme The Liberal Party won the 1892 election, but its majority relied on Irish Nationalist support, and the results were far from the sort of endorsement from the electorate that Gladstone hoped.
Central to the far right's extreme rejection of soy products are "fears of internal weakness, and a distrust of the food supply and the rest of the modern world" according to journalist Will Sommer.
On the military issue: WE WANT: The establishment of a national militia with brief educational services and exclusively defensive duty.
its religious aspects have not been developed..." The difference in cultural and religious values created misunderstandings between the two cultures, and fostered a bias in the cultural diffusion associated with Christian missionaries and their trips to China.
Proceed implementing the practice of open tenders, including the implementation of new steps with checks and balances in supply chain management.
The entrusting to the proletarian organizations themselves (who are morally and technically worthy) of the management of public industries or services.
He was imprisoned in 2011 for "spreading anti-government propaganda" after posting copies of pro-democracy articles online.
Knowing the proposal was a threat to their countries borders, the Greek and Yugoslav delegates were unable to endorse it at this stage; however, in order for any chance of success, the communists needed the support of the IMRO.
2025 In March, Patient Voice Aotearoa launched its tour of the North Island to raise signatures for the Buller Declaration, with its first stop being Porirua on 4 March.
One particularly notable volume by De Ruggiero is his book Existentialism: The Philosophy of Existence as it comprehensively dissects this philosophy with an even balance of exposition and analysis.
Weeks after the letter was released, 14 female activists inside Iran issued a similar statement on August 5, 2019.
The remainder of the document persists in a similar vein, constantly stressing the dangers of submitting to interrogation techniques.
The Conservatives also pledged a recruitment of 8,000 new police officers and a rollout of facial recognition technology.
The term "Versatilist" can give you the false impression that it is necessary the artist masters many languages for being an enthusiast, fact that does not correspond to the intentions of this manifesto.
Also they condemn what they see as a willingness by some on the left to criticise minor (although real) violations of rights at home, while ignoring or excusing much greater violations abroad.
In recognition of both their past and future contributions and for their service as subjects of the Italian Empire since the 1880s, Rome passed a decree in 1937 distinguishing Eritreans from Ethiopians and other subjects of the newly-founded colonial empire in a divide-and-conquer fashion.
From then until the late 1990s, The Romantic Manifesto and Rand's aesthetic theory in general received little attention, leading Rand scholar Chris Matthew Sciabarra to refer to it as "a nearly forgotten book in the Randian canon".
In 2009, he was sentenced to five years in prison for allegedly attempting to overthrow the government; shortly after his release in 2015, he was arrested again on the same charges, and in 2016 was sentenced to 13 years in prison.
Criticism Gore Vidal criticized "The Literature of Exhaustion" and Barth's novels for making an analysis of only the plots of novels and myths, while refusing to engage with the style of either, resulting in reductionist and disinterested understandings of novels' contents.
One of these, The Communist Manifesto: A Modern Edition by Verso, was touted by a critic in the London Review of Books as being a "stylish red-ribboned edition of the work.
And it is inescapable that there can be no peace for any part of the world unless the foundations of peace are made secure throughout all parts of the world.
Affirmation of this creed, which describes the Trinity, is often taken as a fundamental test of orthodoxy by many Christian denominations, and was historically purposed against Arianism.
The Left Wing Manifesto is the name bestowed upon two distinct programmatic documents of the Left Wing Section of the Socialist Party during the factional war in the Socialist Party of America of 1919.
This is a list of the British Liberal Party, SDP–Liberal Alliance, and Liberal Democrats general election manifestos since the 1900 general election.
In Vilna, the book was burned publicly, but in Italy and other places, it was applauded as an enlightened and legitimate work.
The manifesto received backing from the Journalists' Association, labor unions, and civil organizations.
See also Index of Muhammad Iqbal–related articles References External links Read online (Warning: Copyright protected in the U.S.
The Conservative Manifesto (officially titled "An Address to the People of the United States") was a position statement drafted in 1937 by a bipartisan conservative coalition of politicians in the United States.
In the "Manifesto", Haraway writes "there is nothing about being 'female' that naturally binds women", which goes against a defining characteristic of traditional feminism that calls women to join in order to advocate for members of their gender.
They proceeded to exchange ideas and publications, including works of Robinson Jeffers, a celebrated writer of the 1930s and 1940s who wrote poetry in the style Jeffers describe as 'Inhumanism.' Jeffers' works had a major influence on Uncivilization.
This manifesto was written by several members of the United Russia part of the Russian Federation in April 2022 and leaked on 28 April 2022.
The Dada Manifesto (French: Le Manifeste DaDa) is a short text written by Hugo Ball detailing the ideals underlying the Dadaist movement.
The success of the book caught Willkie by surprise and the proceeds from the book went to war relief agencies in Britain, Russia, and China.
We can do so by keeping this thought of a noble future for our country constantly before our eyes, ever seeking in action to bring that future into being, and ever remembering that it is for our nation as a whole that future must be sought.
Маніфест до українського народу з ультимативними вимогами до Української Ради // Українська дипломатична енциклопедія: У 2-х т./Редкол.:Л.
The book is written in a collage style, mixing quotations by the author with those from a variety of other sources.
It is not true that the combat against our so-called militarism is not a combat against our civilization, as our enemies hypocritically pretend it is.
Criticism Many evangelicals, while appreciating the goal of social agreement in the ECT document, are still opposed to the theological wording of the document.
Progetto d'un manifesto), is a political statement written by Altiero Spinelli, Ernesto Rossi, and Eugenio Colorni, while they were imprisoned on the Italian islet Santo Stefano off the island of Ventotene during World War II.
Socialist feminism does not naturalize but rather builds a unity that was non-existent before - namely the woman worker.
Peter Hendy who worked for Hewson's deputy, Shadow treasurer Peter Reith, stated on ABC TV that three people knew the GST policy thoroughly, Reith, Hendy and another Reith staffer.
The BCP agenda was endorsed by the Soviets, who felt it best served their goals of spreading communism in the Balkans.
A poster of "The Hacker Manifesto" appears in the 2010 film The Social Network in the Harvard room of Mark Zuckerberg.
Not all of them were already cooperating with Van der Capellen in 1781, so he created the idea of an alliance that did not exist yet, thus entangling the other dissidents in his plans.
The Statement of 14 Political Activists (Persian: بیانیه چهارده فعال سیاسی) is an open letter signed by 14 political activists inside Iran, aimed at People of Iran, calling Ali Khamenei to resign his post of Supreme Leader after 30-year tenure.
The book was published while Abbott was in opposition, four years before he was elected as Prime Minister of Australia in 2013.
The States of the respective Southern Netherlandish provinces united in a new confederal republic, the United Belgian States (7 January – 11 December 1790), which was reconquered after eleven months by the Imperial army.
Instead, Cyrus Eaton, a Canadian industrialist who had known Russell since 1938, offered to finance the conference in his hometown of Pugwash, Nova Scotia.
He was the author, among other works, of an impressive 13-volume History of Philosophy, published between 1918 and 1948, and a History of European Liberalism published in 1925, both at Laterza.
According to the author, these people also had deficiencies: [they're] little patriotic, and very superstitious, because they still live in ignorance.
These propose the author/s feelings and briefing on the how and why of film: Notes See also Postmodernist film Vulgar auteurism Film theory
Synopsis The manifesto called for a conference where scientists would assess the dangers posed to the survival of humanity by weapons of mass destruction.
All three titles of the pamphlet, Essentials of Hindutva, Who is a Hindu?, and Hindutva, have been used in scholarly analysis.
The endorsements overcame a mere new-rightist profile, being actually ideologically transversal, with supporting intellectuals coming from both the left and right.
This led to proposals for the development of similar capabilities for newly created West German army (Bundeswehr) in the course of the year 1956.
The imbecilization of young people in families and schools The imbecilization that young people undergo within their families and schools, has then a natural continuation in the "deliberately anticultural production" of novels, films, et cetera, conducted with the means of large-scale industry.
Historian David Egan's work in Llafur, the journal of Welsh labour history, particularly his 1985 article "Noah Ablett, 1883–1935", provides crucial biographical context for understanding the pamphlet's origins and impact.
Nor do they describe what they expect following their suggested 'collapse.' Reception A variety of critics criticized the bleakness in the Uncivilization project.
every workshop will become an intoxicating orchestra of noise." Gallery of works Musicians/Artists influenced by The Art of Noises John Cage Pierre Schaeffer Pierre Henry Art of Noise Adam Ant Einstürzende Neubauten Test Dept Joseph Nechvatal DJ Spooky Dywane Thomas, Jr.
The 60th anniversary of the publication of An Appeal for Human Rights was celebrated in a ceremony hosted by Atlanta City Council member Michael Julian Bond in March 2020.
A century later, the Agreement is believed to have "greatly influence[ed] the development of the U.S.
She says that because of the complicated situation of technology and media, "cyborg is no longer the individual person – or for that matter, the individual cyborg – is no longer the appropriate unit of analysis, if indeed it ever was." As for the relationships between cyborg and religion, Robert A.
Unsurprisingly, Maréchal was involved in the composition of the Manifesto of the Equals because for him, as long as the distinctions of birth, social rank, education and occupation remained the primary defining feature of civilian life, the Revolution remained unfinished.
The first part contains six guiding principles, whereas the second part specifies what political action should be taken.
Created the Tennessee Valley Authority in 1933 to create a hydroelectric project on the Tennessee River.
At the mentioned day, Iran's supreme leader issued an eight-article charter, that, afterwards it became known by the mentioned name, i.e.
Leading up to the issuance of the Manifesto, there was major disagreement about church members entering politics.
Shields also discusses, at length, the distinction between memoir and fiction-a distinction that, Shields argues, is mostly imaginary.
They were also purposed to imagine Aztlán, the mythical homeland for Chicana/o people, as both a physical place and a nexus for change in educational and academic communities.
True Muslims should maintain a "sense of supremacy" and "superiority," on the road of renewal, and to remember their enemies are angered by them, hate them "only because of their faith", "only because they believe in God".
The document The publication contained a series of texts in addition to the manifesto, as well as illustrations and photographs.
External links Text of the First Things First manifesto on Design is History Published writing by Ken Garland
The Rozz Tox Manifesto is a 1979 essay by visual artist Gary Panter in which Panter rejects the notion of the artist as bohemian; instead, an artist is encouraged to work within capitalism to reach a larger market.
It explains that obedience to the Amir al-Mu'minin by the ummah is fard and that opposition is hudud.
See also Death of the novel Borges' "Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote" Mock-heroic Postmodern literature List of postmodern critics References External links The Atlantic monthly, Volumes 245-246 (1980) The Literature of Exhaustion
Similarly, David McCullagh in 2018 suggests that its advocacy of "frugal comfort" was motivated by egalitarianism: "to ensure a minimum for everyone, the better off would have to accept a lower standard of living".
A section focused on lesbian visibility asserts that queer women should involve themselves in revolution: "Girl, you can't wait for other dykes to make the world safe for you.
New York (prepared by the Division of Archives and History) The American Revolution in New York: Its Political, Social, and Economic Significance.
Beals' Desk Notebook of the Doctors' Trial, Held in Nuernberg, Germany, December, 1946 to August, 1947.
"'The Old First is With the South:' The Civil War, Reconstruction, and Memory in the Jackson Purchase Region of Kentucky." (PhD dissertation, Auburn U.
Report on the Events of October 1970, Direction générale des publications gouvernementales, Québec, 1981.
"The Ottoman Road to War in 1914: The Ottoman Empire and the First World War." (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010).
The Bristoe Campaign: General Lee's Last Strategic Offensive with the Army of Northern Virginia, October 1863.
The End of the Old Order: Napoleon And Europe, 1801–1805 (2006) first of four promised volumes; covers the strengths and strategies of all the powers excerpt and text search Leggiere, Michael V.
The Civil War in Arizona: The Story of the California Volunteers, 1861–1865, 2nd ed., Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 2008.
Napoleon the First: A Biography (1903); 836 pages; excellent old biography online edition Herold, J.
This is a select bibliography of English language books (including translations) and journal articles about the history of Poland during World War II.
Marriage, Household, and Home in Modern Russia from Peter the Great to Vladimir Putin (The Bloomsbury History of Modern Russia Series).
— 67th Armored Regiment Battalions Includes OF-4 formations, such as army battalions or air force squadrons (French air force: Escadron, German air force: Gruppe).
Landes, Women and the Public Sphere in the Age of the French Revolution (1988) Hufton, Olwen, Women and the Limits of Citizenship in the French Revolution (Toronto, University of Toronto Press, 1992) Melzer, S.
(master thesis in history) Official reports, correspondence Lambton, John George, Charles Buller, Edward Gibbon Wakefield] (1839).
"The Road Not Taken: Conflict Termination and Guerrillaism in the American Civil War." Journal of Strategic Studies (2006) 29(5): 871-904.
Warshipbuilding on the Clyde: Naval orders and the prosperity of the Clyde shipbuilding industry, 1889–1939 (John Donald, 1987) Sondhaus, Lawrence.
Patriotism and Propaganda in First World War Britain: The National War Aims Committee and Civilian Morale (2013) Paddock, Troy.
"Shattering the myth about President Eisenhower's Supreme Court appointments." Presidential Studies Quarterly 22.1 (1992): 47-56 online.
Auftakt zum Vernichtungskrieg: Die Wehrmacht in Polen 1939 [Prelude to the War of Extermination: The Wehrmacht in Poland, 1939] (in German).
Long Ago and Far Away: War Monuments, Public Relations, and the Memory of the Russo-Japanese War in Russia, 1907-14.
Because of the extent of the Cold War (in terms of time and scope), the conflict is well documented.
Booknotes interview with Steve Neal on Harry and Ike: The Partnership That Remade the Postwar World, February 10, 2002.
His thesis was that the Revolution established a bourgeois democratic republic which set the preconditions for the emergence of a socialist movement.
Colombia and World War I: The Experience of a Neutral Latin American Nation during the Great War and Its Aftermath, 1914–1921 (Lexington Books, 2014).
Audio and video sources 29 Audio/Video Clips of Harry Truman Archived September 1, 2006, at the Wayback Machine Audio clips of Truman's speeches Truman on US postage stamps "Harry S.
Homefront States, regions, and local Guerillas Ethnic groups African Americans Primary sources Adair, Lyle, and Glenn Robins.
Injustice on Trial: Second Bull Run, General Fitz John Porter's Court-Martial, and the Schofield Board Investigation That Restored His Good Name.
The Holocaust Education Development Programme (HEDP) is run by the Institute of Education (IOE), University of London and jointly funded by the Pears Foundation and the Department for Children, Schools and Families (DCSF) with support from the Holocaust Educational Trust (HET).
Soldiering in the Army of Tennessee: A Portrait of Life in a Confederate Army (UNC Press Books, 2003) online Donald, David.
The Era of the Civil War 1848–1870 (1919), the standard scholarly history; vol 3 of The Centennial History of Illinois Duerkes, Wayne N.
"The Next War: The Influence of the Russo-Japanese War on Southeastern Europe and the Balkan Wars of 1912–1913".
Brandywine: The Battle at Chadds Ford and Birmingham Meeting House, in Adjoining Parts of Chester and Delaware Counties, Pennsylvania, September 11, 1777.
Rural Revolutions in Southern Ukraine: Peasants, Nobles, and Colonists, 1774-1905 (Harvard Series In Ukrainian Studies).
Union 1812: The Americans Who Fought the Second War of Independence (2006) 495 pp, popular history Latimer, Jon, 1812: War with America (Harvard, 2007).
Timișoara 1989, Timișoara, 1994 1989 – Legiunea revoluției, Timișoara, 2005 Elena Băncilă, Trage, lașule!, Bucharest, 1990 Matei Barbu, Cap de afiș: Revoluția de la Timișoara, Timișoara, 1999 Mariana Cernicova, Noi suntem poporul, Timișoara, 2004 Ruxandra Cesereanu, Decembrie '89.
Israel: National Security and Securitization: The Role of the United States in Defining What Counts.
Action Front: The History of the 2/2nd Australian Field Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery, A.I.F.
Middletown (Ohio, USA).{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) — 489th Bombardment Squadron Farnum, Sayward H.
It also includes air force formations, such as air divisions, air groups, air wings, air squadrons and air force flights.
Zionism in Damascus: Ideology and Activity in the Jewish Community at the Beginning of the Twentieth Century.
Correspondence Regarding the Negotiations between Japan and Russia (1903–1904), Presented to the Imperial Diet, March 1904.
Pennsylvania at Chickamauga and Chattanooga: Ceremonies at the Dedication of the Monuments Erected by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
4 (I): "Revoluția din decembrie 1989 - o tragedie românească", Bucharest, 2004 Istoria loviturilor de stat din România, vol.
"Shifting Currents: Dwight Eisenhower and the Dynamic of Presidential Opportunity Structure," Presidential Studies Quarterly, March 2015.
Individual memoirs of World War II that are notable enough to merit their own article are additionally collected in the World War II memoirs category and in the Holocaust personal accounts category.
Truman and Clement Attlee: 'Trouble Always Brings Us Together'." The Palgrave Handbook of Presidents and Prime Ministers From Cleveland and Salisbury to Trump and Johnson (Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2022) pp.
Gallager Fighting for the Confederacy: The Personal Recollections of General Edward Porter Alexander.
Final report to the Secretary of the Army on Nuernberg war crimes trials under Control Council Law no.
The End of Don't Ask, Don't Tell: The Impact in Studies and Personal Essays by Service Members and Veterans.
Miracle of '48: Harry Truman's Major Campaign Speeches & Selected Whistle-Stops (2003) Truman, Harry S.
Demographic Concepts, Population Policy, and Genocide in the Late Ottoman, Russian, and Habsburg Spheres.
"Forced Labor Camps for Jews in Reichskommissariat Ukraine: The Exploitation of Jewish Labor within the Holocaust in the East".
He rejected ideological interpretations of the Revolution, insisting on "facts, facts, no theory." His research made him hostile to the Girondins and radicals of the Revolution, but he refused to endorse a politically liberal interpretation.
The Sovietization of Ukraine, 1917–1923: The Communist Doctrine and Practice of National Self-Determination.
Military Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Awareness Training for Health Care Providers Within the Military Health System.
Brothers, Rivals, Victors: Eisenhower, Patton, Bradley, and the Partnership that Drove the Allied Conquest in Europe.
Foreman, John (1988), Battle of Britain: The Forgotten Months, November And December 1940, New Malden: Air Research Publications, ISBN 1-871187-02-8 Gaskin, Margaret.
2002) ISBN 978-0-14-139100-7 Chielens, Piet & Putkowski, Julian; Unquiet Graves / Rusteloze Graven Guide: Execution Sites of the First World War in Flanders (UK: Francis Boutle Publishers, 2000) ISBN 978-1-903427-00-2 Corns, Caroline & Hughes-Wilson, John; Blindfold and Alone (London, Cassell.
The Social History of Polish Exile (1939–1945): The Exile State and the Clandestine State: Society, Problems and Reflections.
Meade and Lee After Gettysburg: The Forgotten Final Stage of the Gettysburg Campaign, from Falling Waters to Culpeper Court House, July 14–31, 1863.
Manchu Princess, Japanese Spy: The Story of Kawashima Yoshiko, the Cross-Dressing Spy Who Commanded Her Own Army.
"The War of 1812 Along the Detroit Frontier: A Canadian Perspective", in The Michigan Historical Review, 13:2 (Fall 1987), pp.
The Nationalization of the Masses: Political Symbolism and Mass Movements in Germany from the Napoleonic Wars Through the Third Reich.
Salem on the Thames: Moral Panic, Anti-Zionism, and the Triumph of Hate Speech at Connecticut College.
A second wave of early first person testimonies at book-length include those by Levi, Wiesel and Adler.
254, Book Battle of Copenhagen Clark, James Stainer; M'Arthur, John (1810) The life of Admiral Lord Nelson, K.B., from his lordship's manuscriptsT.
"War Hero in the White House: Dwight Eisenhower and the Politics of Peace, Prosperity, and Party." in Profiles in Power (Brill, 2020) pp.
Russia's Peasants in Revolution and Civil War: Citizenship, Identity, and the Creation of the Soviet State, 1914–1922.
Instances of Use of United States Forces Abroad, 1798–2017, by Barbara Salazar Torreon, Senior Research Librarian, Congressional Research Service.
To keep the bibliography length manageable, only items that clearly meet the criteria should be included.
Rapport de la Commission d'enquête sur des opérations policières en territoire québécois, Direction des communications, Ministère de la justice, 1981, 451 pages Newspapers, journals Michel Gourd.
Victors in Blue: How Union Generals Fought the Confederates, Battled Each Other, and Won the Civil War.
McKenzie's Fighting Fifth: Questionnaires of Veterans of the 5th Tennessee Cavalry Regiment, Confederate States of America.
"Recent Literature on Truman's Atomic Bomb Decision: A Search for Middle Ground" Diplomatic History 29#2 (2005) pp 311–334 Webb, Clive.
Straight on for Tokyo: the war history of the 2nd Battalion the Dorsetshire Regiment, 54th Foot, 1939–1948.
This bibliography also does not aim to include fictional works (see World War II in popular culture).
The Russian Revolution of 1905 in Transcultural Perspective: Identities, Peripheries, and the Flow of Ideas.
Salzburg (Austria).{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) — 693rd Field Artillery Battalion ——— (1945).
Ratzabi, Shalom (2001-12-20), "Between Zionism and Judaism: The Radical Circle in Brith Shalom 1925-1933", Between Zionism and Judaism, Brill, ISBN 978-90-04-50134-8, retrieved 2024-10-01{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Rubinstein, Amnon (2000).
Ehrlich, Carl Sagan and Donald Kennedy, 1984 Collateral Damage: America's War Against Iraqi Civilians – Chris Hedges, 2008 The Complaint of Peace – Desiderius Erasmus, 1517 The Conduct of the Allies – Jonathan Swift, 1711 The Conquest of Violence – Bart de Ligt, 1937 Cry Havoc!
A Particular Duty: The Canadian Rebellions 1837-1839, Salisbury (Wiltshire): Michael Russel Publishing, 211 p.
George Henry Thomas the Dependable General: The Dependable General Supreme in Tactics of Strategy and Command.
Germany For books specifically about German-owned Austria between 1938 and 1945, see the "Austria" section.
Kuperman, an analysis of the logistical limitations of humanitarian military intervention in the Rwandan Genocide.
Their Brothers' Keepers: The Christian Heroes and Heroines Who Helped the Oppressed Escape the Nazi Terror.
vol 1 from 1861 to the Seven Days' Battles; Vol 2 from Cedar Mountain to Chancellorsville, August 1862-May 1863; vol 3 to end of war.
"Western Ukraine and Western Belorussia Under Soviet Occupation: The Development of Socialist Farming, 1939-1941".
"Rumor into Myth: the Image of Napoleon among the Romanians, 1800–1848", Consortium on Revolutionary Europe 1750–1850: Proceedings 1992 21: 98-105 Geyl, Pieter.
Shots fired in Anger: a Rifleman's Eye View of the Activities on the Island of Guadalcanal in the Solomons, during the Elimination of the Japanese Forces there.
In Representing 9/11: Trauma, Ideology, and Nationalism in Literature, Film, and Television, scholars from a variety of disciplines demonstrate how emergent American and international texts expand upon and complicate the initial post-9/11 canon.
George Witton memoir, 1907 Science, Liberty and Peace – Aldous Huxley, 1946 The Seventh Decade: The New Shape of Nuclear Danger – Jonathan Schell, 2007 The Struggle Against the Bomb 1 - One World or None: a history of the world nuclear disarmament movement through 1953 – Lawrence S.
General MacArthur and President Truman: The Struggle for Control of American Foreign Policy (Routledge, 2022, reprint of 1951 book).
Included works should either be published by an academic or notable publisher, or be authored by an independent notable subject matter expert and have reviews in significant independent scholarly journals.
"The civil rights movement and the Presidency in the hot years of the Cold War: A historical and historiographical assessment." History Compass 6.1 (2008): 314-344 online.
"" Overrun with free Negroes": emancipation and wartime migration in the Upper Midwest." Civil War History 50.2 (2004): 145–174.
Historical Dictionary of the French Revolution, 1789-1799 (1984), short essays by scholars Sutherland, D.M.G.
This is a Bibliography of World War II battles and campaigns in Europe, North Africa and the Middle East.
The sections "General Surveys" and "Biographies" contain books; other sections contain both books and journal articles.
The First American Army: The Untold Story of George Washington and the Men behind America's First Fight for Freedom.
The Holocaust in Lithuania: The Key Characteristics of Its History, and the Key Issues in Historiography and Cultural Memory.
Controlling the atom: The beginnings of nuclear regulation, 1946-1962 ((U of California Press, 1985).
Commodore Joshua Barney, the Hero of the Battle of Bladensburg: Incidents of His Life Gleaned from Contemporaneous Sources, University of Minnesota, p.
The work of Cochin and Gaxotte became the dominant interpretation of the Revolution in Vichy France but fell out of favour after the war.
Weinberg, Gerhard L (1994), A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II, ISBN 978-0-521-44317-3.
This historical trend has been variously called "Marxist, "classic", "Jacobin" or "history from below" and is associated with historians such as Albert Mathiez, Georges Lefebvre and Albert Soboul.
Nevertheless, there persists a very widespread agreement that the French Revolution was the watershed between the premodern and modern eras of Western history.
The First Cruise of the United States Frigate Essex: With a Short Account of Her Origin, and Subsequent Career Until Captured by the British in 1814, and Her Ultimate Fate, Essex Institute, p.
"Fire, Flood, and Red Fever: Motivating Metaphors of Global Emergency in the Truman Doctrine Speech." Presidential Studies Quarterly 1999 29(3): 570–591.
"Quo Vadis Ukrainian History?" The Frontline: Essays on Ukraine’s Past and Present (Harvard Series In Ukrainian Studies).
If a work has been translated into English, the translator should be included and a footnote with appropriate bibliographic information for the original language version should be included.
Arrows in the Dark (Volumes 1 and 2): David Ben-Gurion, the Yishuv Leadership, and Rescue Attempts during the Holocaust.
The Marshall Plan: America, Britain and the Reconstruction of Western Europe, 1947–1952 (1989) Keohane, Robert O.
Als Hitler's Adjutant, 1937–1945 [At Hitler's Side: The Memoirs of Hitler's Luftwaffe Adjutant, 1937–1945] (in German).
The Romanian Revolution was the only one of these revolutions where a Communist government was violently overthrown and the country's leader was executed.
{{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) ——— (2005), "Showdown on the Court", Smithsonian (fulltext), 36 (2), Ebsco: 106–13, ISSN 0037-7333.
Academic journals Journal of Borderlands Studies (1986–present); five issues per year published by Taylor & Francis for the Association for Borderlands Studies; ISSN 0886-5655 (print), ISSN 2159-1229 (online).
"The War Prayer" – Mark Twain short story, c.1910 War with the Newts – Karel Čapek, novel 1936 The Wars – Timothy Findley novel, 1977 Why Are We in Vietnam?
Daniel Abraham, Bill Clinton, 2006 Peace Signs: The Anti-War Movement Illustrated – James Mann, editor, 2004 Peace with Honour – A.
The Agrarian Policy of the Russian Socialist-Revolutionary Party: From its Origins through the Revolution of 1905-1907 (Cambridge Russian, Soviet and Post-Soviet Studies).
Korda, Michael (2010), With Wings Like Eagles: The Untold Story of the Battle of Britain, New York: Harper Perennial, ISBN 978-0-06-112536-2 Manchester, William; Reid, Paul (2012).
The Celebrated letter of Joseph Hume, Esq., M.P., to William Lyon Mackenzie, Esq., mayor of Toronto, declaratory of a design to "Free these Provinces from the baneful Domination of the Mother Country!", Toronto: G.P.
The Key to the South: Britain, the United States, and Thailand during the Approach of the Pacific War, 1929–1942.
– Harold Pringle United Kingdom, biographies of military personnel (non-generals/admirals) Bickers, Richard (1962).
Bendetsen: General Counsel, Department of the Army, 1949; Assistant Secretary of the Army, 1950–52; Under Secretary of the Army, 1952".
The enemy at Trafalgar: an account of the battle from eye-witnesses' narratives and letters and despatches from the French and Spanish fleetsE.P.Dutton & Co., New York, p.
Galleghan's Greyhounds: The Story of the 2/30th Australian Infantry Battalion, 22nd November, 1940 – 10th October, 1945.
It also should not include any prewar writings, setting the earliest dates of publication available for this list at 1937 (Second Sino-Japanese War), 1939 (European theater of World War II) and 1941 (Pacific War), depending on geographic context.
"Punishing the Perpetrators of the Holocaust: The Brandt, Pohl, and Ohlendorf Cases." Volume 17, The Holocaust; Introduction by John Mendelsohn.
Warrant for Genocide: The Myth of the Jewish World Conspiracy and the Protocols of the Elders of Zion.
Les Rébellions de 1837-1838 : les patriotes du Bas-Canada dans la mémoire collective et chez les historiens, Montréal: Boréal Express, 349 p.
"Eisenhower Revisionism Revisited: Reflections on Eisenhower Scholarship", Historian, Spring 1988, Vol.
By the 20th-century, revolutionary history had become professionalised, with scholars paying more attention to the critical analysis of primary sources from public archives.
Publications that are in the public domain and available online for viewing in their entirety are denoted with E'Book.
The Thirteenth Armored Division: A History of the Black Cats from Texas to France, Germany and Austria, and back to California.
There is no complete bibliography to the war; the largest guide to books is over 40 years old and lists over 6,000 titles selected by leading scholars.
This is a select bibliography of post-World War II English language books (including translations) and journal articles about the Revolutionary and Civil War era of Russian (Soviet) history.
LGBT+ includes any types of people which may be considered "Queer"; in other words, homosexual people, bisexual people, transgender people, intersex people, androgynous people, cross-dressers, questioning people and others.
Bullets, Ballots, and Rhetoric: Confederate Policy for the United States Presidential Contest of 1864.
1989) ISBN 978-0-9512776-1-4 (however none of the rioters were executed) Sellers, Leonard; For God's Sake Shoot Straight!
Doyle states that the three streams can be described as the reactionary, the radical and the liberal, or simply right, left and centre.
This book looks at the events with a critical view of the United Nations, and the international community.
The Prisoner of War: The Official Journal of the Prisoner of War Department of the Red Cross and St.
Historiography Primary sources: Documents and memoirs Document collections Chang, Laurence and Peter Kornbluh, eds., The Cuban Missile Crisis, 1962 (1985) Etzold, Thomas and John Lewis Gaddis, eds., Containment: Documents on American Policy and Strategy, 1945–1950 (1978) Hanhimaki, Jussi M.
Tactics and the Experience of Battle in the Age of Napoleon (2000), 466pp excerpt and text search Nofi, Albert A.
"Richard Yates: An Appraisal of his Value as the Civil War Governor of Illinois," Journal of the Illinois State Historical Society Spring/Summer2011, Vol.
P : The USS Constitution's finest fight, 1815: the journal of Acting Chaplain Assheton Humphreys, US Navy, Nautical & Aviation Pub.
The Information Policy of the Polish Government-in-Exile Toward the American Public During World War II.
(1971) Octobre 1970 un an après, Éditions Hurtubise-HMH (translation of Rumours of War) Dr Serge Mongeau.
Bibliography of Hitler, Adolf Bibliography of the Holocaust Bibliography of the Holocaust in Greece Bibliography of Nazi Germany Bibliography of Poland during World War II Bibliography of Roosevelt, Franklin D.
Campion, Garry (2015), The Battle of Britain, 1945–1965: The Air Ministry and the Few, Palgrave Macmillan, ISBN 978-0-230-28454-8 Cooper, Matthew.
The Revolution was a conspiracy of philosophers and literary men who undermined faith in religion, monarchy, and the established social order, inciting "the swinish multitude" to create disorder.
A matter of justice: Eisenhower and the beginning of the civil rights revolution (Simon and Schuster, 2007).
This is a Bibliography of World War II battles and campaigns in East Asia, South East Asia, India and the Pacific.
It aims to include historical sources and literature (and to avoid works of fiction) about specific unit formations of World War II, such as fronts/army groups, field armies, army corps, divisions, brigades, regiments, battalions, and companies.
ISBN 0-8108-5499-6, 699 pp Misiak, Zig, "War of 1812: Highlighting Native Nations", 2012, ISBN 978-0-9811880-5-8 website Smith, Gene Allen.
To avoid abuse, works here should have independent English language academic reviews or reviews by major English language publications (e.g.
He defended Robespierre, arguing that the Terror was necessary to defend the democratic republican revolution and that the Jacobins were overthrown when they tried to carry out a property revolution.
Alexander "Fighting Elleck" Hays: The Life of a Civil War General, From West Point to the Wilderness.
The Economics of the Political Parties, with Special Attention to Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy.
Furthermore, it includes naval formations, such as naval divisions, naval squadrons, flotillas, carrier battle groups, naval task forces and naval fleets.
(2005), The last good war : an illustrated history of Canada in the Second World War, 1939–1945, Douglas & McIntyre ISBN 1-55054-913-8 Granatstein, J.
Additional bibliographies can be found in many of the book-length works listed below; see Further Reading for several book and chapter-length bibliographies.
Note: This article forms part of Bibliography of the American Civil War Union military leaders General reference American National Biography 24 vol (1999).
Kujtime nga jeta e Brigadës I-rë Sulmuese [Memories from the Life of the First Assault Brigade] (in Albanian).
Autopsy on an Empire: The American Ambassador's Account of the Collapse of the Soviet Union (1995) Matlock, Jack F.
Napoleon's Wars: An International History, 1803–1815 (2008), 656pp excerpt and text search Esdaile, Charles J.
The bibliography of the American Civil War comprises books that deal in large part with the American Civil War.
Timothy Tackett has written a number of histories of the Revolution including When the King Took Flight (2004), Becoming a Revolutionary (2006), and The Coming of the Terror in the French Revolution (2015).
"La Bataille d'Angleterre vue par la 227.I.D." [The Battle of Britain Viewed by the 227th Infantry Division].
Collections of essays and/or articles Small Wonder, 2002 collection of 23 essays by American novelist and biologist Barbara Kingsolver With Every Mistake, 2005 collection of Canadian Gwynne Dyer's articles published between September 11, 2001, and the Iraqi election in 2005.
"Truman and the Historians: The Reconstruction of Postwar American History." Wisconsin Magazine of History (1975) 59#1 pp: 20-47, covers both foreign and domestic policy.
E'Book Winfield, Rif (2010): (i) British Warships in the Age of Sail 1603 – 1714: Design Construction, Careers and Fates, p.
Soldiering in the Army of Northern Virginia: A Statistical Portrait of the Troops Who Served Under Robert E.
"Executive Order 9835 – Prescribing Procedures for the Administration of an Employees Loyalty Program in the Executive Branch of the Government".
The Limits of Formal Protest: Worker Activism and Social Polarization in Petrograd and Moscow, March to October, 1917.
In Our Hearts We Were Giants: The Remarkable Story of the Lilliput Troupe – A Dwarf Family's Survival of the Holocaust.
Revoluția trădată din România, Bucharest, 1999 Valentin Raiha, KGB a aruncat în aer România cu complicitatea unui grup de militari, Bucharest, 1995 Nestor Rateș, România: Revoluția încâlcită, Bucharest, 1995 Șerban Săndulescu, Decembrie '89.
GAO Report on Nazi War Criminals in the United States: Oversight Hearing Before the Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and International Law of the Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives.
The Military Annals of Tennessee, Confederate: Embracing a Review of Military Operations, with Regimental Histories and Memorial Rolls.
Four Years in the War: The History of the First Regiment of Delaware Veteran Volunteers (Infantry), From Its Organization in 1861, to the Close of the War in 1865.
Befehl im Widerstreit: Schicksalsstunden der deutschen Armee [Conflicts over Orders: Hours of fate of the German Army] (in German).
The Waterloo Companion: The Complete Guide to History's Most Famous Land Battle (2002) 448pp excerpt and text search Arnold, James R.
Truman, February 11, 1950, with Truman's draft reply; McCarthy, Joseph; General File; PSF; Truman Papers".
Die Jagdfliegerverbände der Deutschen Luftwaffe 1934 bis 1945—Teil 4/I—Einsatz am Kanal und über England—26.6.1940 bis 21.6.1941 [The Fighter Units of the German Air Force 1934 to 1945—Part 4/I—Action at the Channel and over England—26 June 1940 to 21 June 1941] (in German).
Armor Command: The Personal Story of a Commander of the 13th Armored Regiment of CCB, 1st Armored Division and of the Armored School during World War II.
External links Russia and World War I: Bibliography of Secondary Sources, Institute for Historical Research.
Bibliographie zur Geschichte der Felddivisionen der Deutschen Wehrmacht und Waffen-SS: 1939–1945 [Bibliography of the History of Field Divisions of the German Wehrmacht and Waffen-SS: 1939–1945] (in German).
Ways and Means: Lincoln and His Cabinet and the Financing of the Civil War (2022) Mitchell, Wesley C.
T; Richard Nielsen (1995), No price too high: Canadians and the Second World War, McGraw-Hill Ryerson, ISBN 0-07-552713-8 Copp, J.
"The Great War and the Forgotten Realm: The Habsburg Monarchy and the First World War" Journal of Modern History (2014) 86#2 pp.
Independent Company: The 2/2 and 2/4 Australian Independent Companies in Portuguese Timor, 1941–1943.
A Brotherhood of Valor: The Common Soldiers of the Stonewall Brigade, C.S.A., and the Iron Brigade, U.S.A.
Kistiakovsky: The Struggle for National and Constitutional Rights in the Last Years of Tsarism (Harvard Series In Ukrainian Studies).
T (2007), The Brigade: The Fifth Canadian Infantry Brigade in World War II, Stackpole Books, ISBN 978-0-8117-3422-6 Chartrand, René; Ronald Volstad (2001), Canadian Forces in World War II, Osprey Publishing, ISBN 1-84176-302-0 Coughlin, Tom.
Morgan, Ted (1985), FDR: A biography (popular biography), Simon and Schuster, ISBN 978-0-671-45495-1.
Recalling the Battle of Britain: A Photographic Essay based upon the records of the 'Kent Messenger' and other contemporary sources of World War 2.
Inclusion criteria Works included below are referenced in the notes or bibliographies of scholarly secondary sources or journals.
War at Every Door: Partisan Politics and Guerrilla Violence in East Tennessee, 1860–1869 (U of North Carolina Press, 2001).
A Critical Dictionary of the French Revolution (1989), 1120pp; long essays by scholars; conservative perspective Goubert, Pierre.
This bibliography of Adolf Hitler is a thematic list of some non-fiction texts in English written about and by him.
